
Foreign purchases of U.S. residential real estate surged to the highest level ever in terms of number of homes sold and dollar volume.
Foreign buyers closed on $153 billion worth of U.S. residential properties between April 2016 and March 2017, a 49 percent jump from the period a year earlier, according to the National Association of Realtors. That surpasses the previous high, set in 2015.
The jump follows a year-earlier retreat and comes as a surprise, given the current strength of the U.S. dollar against most foreign currencies, which makes U.S. housing even more expensive. Apparently, the value of a financial safe-haven is outweighing the rising costs.
Foreign sales accounted for 10 percent of all existing home sales by dollar volume and 5 percent by number of properties. In total, foreign buyers purchased 284,455 homes, up 32 percent from the previous year.
Half of all foreign sales were in just three states: Florida, California and Texas.
Chinese buyers led the pack for the fourth straight year, followed by buyers from Canada, the United Kingdom, Mexico and India. Russian buyers made up barely 1 percent of the purchases.
Manufacturing in New York state grew for a second month in July but at a much slower pace, as new orders and shipments both slipped.
The Federal Reserve Bank of New York says its Empire State manufacturing index dropped to 9.8 from 19.8 in June. Any reading above zero signals expansion.
July's drop comes after the index reached a two-year high in June. Still, the reading is at a mostly healthy level. While the index measures sentiment among New York firms, it is closely followed by economists because it provides an early read on factory output nationwide.
A measure of new orders dropped to 13.3 from 18.1, while a gauge of shipments dropped to 10.5 from 22.3. Hiring also slowed sharply.
Stung by the public relations debacle of Republican's attempts to change health care, President Donald Trump's administration is said to be planning a more coordinated effort for its tax reform efforts, Axios reported on Sunday.
Citing sources familiar with the matter, the publication said the White House has engaged in high-level planning and organization of its efforts to reshape the tax code — the centerpiece of Trump's economic policy and a linchpin of the rally that's carried the market to new record highs.
Axios cited unnamed activists and business leaders that have met with National Economic Council Director Gary Cohn, Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin and Press Secretary Sean Spicer, who is leading the communications strategy. Those involved in the effort said the administration is hoping to avoid tax reform meeting the same fate as the GOP's health care reform, currently mired in the Senate, where passage is uncertain.
Dallas Federal Reserve Bank President Robert Kaplan said on Friday that the U.S. central bank could begin to allow its $4.5 trillion balance sheet to shrink "as soon as September."
At the same time, he reiterated his view that while the U.S. is near full employment, inflation has been muted, and he would like to see more progress before raising U.S. interest rates further.
U.S. business inventories rebounded in May as sales recorded their biggest drop in 10 months, government data showed on Friday.
The Commerce Department said business inventories increased 0.3 percent after an unrevised 0.2 percent decrease in April. Sales fell 0.2 percent, the biggest decline since July 2016, after being unchanged in April.
Inventories are a key component of gross domestic product. At May's sales pace, it would take 1.38 months for businesses to clear shelves, up from 1.37 months in April.

Confidence in future economic prospects continued slipping into early July, the University of Michigan reported Friday.
U.S. consumer sentiment fell to 93.1 in a preliminary survey. Economists expected consumer sentiment to hit 95 in July, according to Thomson Reuters consensus estimates.
"Overall, the recent data follow the same pattern repeatedly recorded around past cyclical peaks: expectations start to post significant declines while assessments of current economic conditions continue to reach new peaks," Richard Curtin, a chief economist for the University of Michigan's survey of consumers, said in a statement.
"To be sure, the data do not suggest an impending recession. ... Much steeper declines in expectations typically precede recessions."
U.S. consumer sentiment last fell to 95.1 in June, sinking 2.1 percent from May.
The declines being recorded by the group are "now consistent with just above 2% GDP growth in 2017," Curtin said. "[T]he data indicate that hopes for a prolonged period of 3% GDP growth sparked by Trump's victory have largely vanished..."
In a preliminary July survey, a reading of current U.S. economic conditions is at 113.2, and an index of consumer expectations sits at 80.2, the University of Michigan said.
Notably, consumers' assessments of current economic conditions hit the highest level since a July 2005 survey.
The monthly survey by the University of Michigan measures 500 consumers' attitudes toward topics such as personal finances, inflation, unemployment, government policies and interest rates.
The University of Michigan's next data release is scheduled for July 28 at 10 am ET.
Read the complete report and results.
Office of Management and Budget Director Mick Mulvaney on Friday defended the Trump administration's position that getting rid of Obamacare will have a positive impact on GDP.
There are some people in Washington who are invested in the United States not achieving 3 percent growth, Mulvaney told CNBC's "Squawk Box."
"Because if we do, it's going to make the previous administration look bad and have long-term political ramifications," Mulvaney said.
He added there's a "disincentive" for Americans to work buried in Obamacare.
Mulvaney wrote an op-ed published Thursday in The Wall Street Journal on how the Trump administration can achieve that growth. He dubbed it "MAGAnomics," a mashup of President Donald Trump's slogan "Make America Great Again" and the word economics.
Before the Senate Banking Committee on Thursday, Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen said she doesn't believe Trump's plan will be enough to get 3 percent.
Productivity growth is hard to move, and labor force growth is on the decline, Yellen said.
Senate Republicans unveiled a revised version of their legislation to repeal and replace Obamacare on Thursday. The House passed a health-care overhaul bill in May.
A vote on a motion to proceed with the Senate Republicans' bill is expected to be held next week. That would allow amendments to be offered for the bill and put it on track to a final vote. Mulvaney says he thinks the bill will pass.
JPMorgan Chase CEO Jamie Dimon expressed frustration at the U.S. federal government during the company's earnings conference call Friday.
"It's almost an embarrassment being an American citizen traveling around the world and listening to the stupid s--- we have to deal with in this country," Dimon said in response to an analyst question.
"Since the Great Recession, which is now 8 years old, we've been growing at 1.5 to 2 percent in spite of stupidity and political gridlock, because the American business sector is powerful and strong," he said. "What I'm saying is it would be much stronger growth had we made intelligent decisions and were there not gridlock."
The executive of the U.S. banking giant cited travels to countries such as France, Argentina, Israel and Ireland. The U.S. has become "one of the most bureaucratic, confusing, litigious societies on the planet" and "it's hurting the average American that we don't have these right policies," he said.
Earlier Friday, JPMorgan Chase reported earnings that handily beat Wall Street estimates. However, the bank lowered its forecast for lending revenue.
Dimon also blasted the press in a separate conference call Friday for focusing on the bank's quarterly results and missing the bigger picture.
Shares briefly fell more than 1.5 percent.
Despite the Republican majority in Congress, Washington has been caught in gridlock over a new health care bill, which is seen as a precursor to passing new legislation on tax reform. The Senate this week cut short its August recess by two weeks in order to deal with the debate.
In response to a separate question, Dimon said government regulation on banks was preventing economic growth, by keeping certain home buyers and small startups from getting funding.
"The counterfactual would have been that a trillion dollars or 2 trillion would have been lent out had these rules been changed five years ago," he said. "There's a false notion that all this stuff didn't hold back the economy. Yes, it did."
Here's most of the full rant:
Since the Great Recession, which is now 8 years old, we've been growing at 1.5 to 2 percent in spite of stupidity and political gridlock. Because the American business sector is powerful and strong, and is going to grow regardless of — people wake up in the morning, they want to feed their kids, they want to buy a home, they want to do things, the same with American businesses — what I'm saying is it would be much stronger growth had we made intelligent decisions and were there not gridlock.
And thank you for pointing it out because I'm going to be a broken record until this gets done. We are unable to build bridges, we're unable to build airports, our inner city school kids are not graduating.
I was just in France, I was recently in Argentina, I was in Israel, I was in Ireland. We met with the prime minister of India and China. It's amazing to me that every single one of those countries understands that practical policies to promote business and growth is good for the average citizens of those countries, for jobs and wages, and that somehow this great American free enterprise system, we no longer get it.
Corporate taxation is critical to that, by the way. We've been driving capital earnings overseas, which is why there's $2 trillion overseas benefiting all these other countries and stuff like that. So if we don't get our act together — we can still grow.
It's unfortunate, but it's hurting us, it's hurting the body politic, it's hurting the average American that we don't have these right policies. So no, in spite of gridlock we'll grow at maybe 1.5 or 2 percent.
I don't buy the argument that we're relegated to this forever. We're not. If this administration can make breakthroughs in taxes and infrastructure, regulatory reform —we have become one of the most bureaucratic, confusing, litigious societies on the planet.
It's almost an embarrassment being an American citizen traveling around the world and listening to the stupid s--- we have to deal with in this country. And at one point we all have to get our act together or we won't do what we're supposed to [do] for the average Americans.
And unfortunately people write about this saying like it's for corporations. It's not for corporations. Competitive taxes are important for business and business growth, which is important for jobs and wage growth. And honestly we should be ringing that alarm bell, every single one of you, every time you talk to a client.
U.S. retail sales unexpectedly fell in June for a second straight month, which could temper expectations of strong acceleration in economic growth in the second quarter.
The Commerce Department said on Friday retail sales fell 0.2 percent last month, weighed down by declines in receipts at service stations, clothing stores and supermarkets. Americans also cut back on spending at restaurants and bars, as well as on hobbies.
May's retail sales were revised to show a 0.1 percent dip instead of the previously reported 0.3 percent drop. Retail sales rose 2.8 percent year-on-year in June.
Excluding automobiles, gasoline, building materials and food services, retail sales slipped 0.1 percent last month after being unchanged in May. These so-called core retail sales correspond most closely with the consumer spending component of grossdomestic product.
U.S. industrial production rose for a fifth straight month in June, helped by gains in mining, while the manufacturing sector rebounded.
Overall industrial production rose 0.4 percent in June after being up a revised 0.1 percent in May. Mining output increased 1.6 percent, with advances in oil and gas extraction, in coal mining and in drilling and support activities. Utilities output was unchanged.
Economists had expected industrial output to increase 0.3 percent from the previously reported flat reading in May.
Manufacturing rebounded 0.2 percent, in line with economist expectations, after an unrevised 0.4 percent fall in May. Activity in the manufacturing sector, which makes up about 12 percent of the U.S. economy, has been slowing amid a moderation in oil prices and declining motor vehicle sales.
Capacity utilization, which measures how fully companies are deploying their resources, rose to 76.6 percent in June from 76.4 percent in May. Economists had forecast a 76.7 percent rate in June.
The U.S. Consumer Price Index was forecast to rise 0.2 percent in June, after edging up 0.1 percent a month earlier.
U.S. consumer prices were unchanged in June as the cost of gasoline and mobile phone services declined further, pointing to benign inflation that could cast doubts on the Federal Reserve's ability to increase interest rates for a third time this year.
The Labor Department said on Friday that the unchanged reading in its Consumer Price Index followed a 0.1 percent dip in May. The lack of a rebound in the CPI in June could trouble Fed officials who have largely viewed the recent moderation in price pressures as transitory.
In the 12 months through June, the CPI increased 1.6 percent - the smallest gain since October 2016 - after rising 1.9 percent in May. The year-on-year CPI has been softening steadily since February, when it hit 2.7 percent.
Fed Chair Janet Yellen, in testimony Thursday before Congress, walked back comments she made recently that there would not be another financial crisis "in our lifetime."
Instead, the central bank chief said banking regulations have made another crisis significantly less likely and the financial system has enough capital on hand to withstand a downturn.
"What I should have stated originally when I made that comment, I believe we have done a great deal since the financial crisis to strengthen the system and to make it more resilient," she said in her semiannual remarks to the Senate Banking Committee.
"I think that we can never be confident that there won't be another financial crisis. But we have acted in the aftermath of that crisis to put in place much stronger capital and liquidity requirements for systemic banking organizations and the banking system more generally," she added.
Yellen raised eyebrows during a June 27 appearance in London when she said the Fed's actions in the wake of the financial crisis had brought a stability to the system that is unlikely to be broken soon. Her assertion that another crisis was unlikely drew some derision on Wall Street and on social media.
During her Senate remarks, Yellen was questioned about the statement and quickly moved to clarify her meaning.
She said the Fed's moves have been critical to requiring that banks carry more capital and pass exams aimed at seeing how they would function in the event of another crisis.
"I think our stress testing regime is forcing banks to greatly improve their risk management and capital planning," Yellen said. "It's given us assurance that even if there is this very significant downturn in the economy, that they will be able to function and provide for the credit needs of the economy."
"But let me say," she added, "we can never be confident that there won't be another financial crisis. But it is important we maintain the improvements that have been put in place that mitigate the risk in the potential downturn."
It's time to make America's economy great again.
At least, that is what Office of Management and Budget director Mick Mulvaney wrote in a Wall Street Journal op-ed published Thursday.
The economic agenda, which Mulvaney dubs "MAGAnomics," is an effort to get the growth of the U.S. gross domestic product back to 3 percent. It is a feat that many economists have called "unrealistic," he said.
"That's fine with us," Mulvaney wrote. "We heard the same pessimism 40 years ago, when the country was mired in 'stagflation' and 'malaise.' But Ronald Reagan dared to challenge that thinking and steered us to a boom that many people thought unachievable."
By cutting taxes, reforming welfare programs, investing in infrastructure, initiating new trade deals and curbing government spending, among other things, Mulvaney said America can achieve economic growth.
"If we enact the president's broad agenda — if MAGAnomics is allowed to work — we will have set the stage for the greatest revival of the American economy since the early 1980s," he wrote.
Read the full op-ed in The Wall Street Journal here.
A growing group of states across the nation are offering to pay the tuition costs for college students. In April, New York became the first state in the United States to offer its residents tuition-free attendance at public four-year colleges and universities and community college when the state legislature approved the Excelsior Scholarship program. In May, Tennessee lawmakers gave final approval to Tennessee Reconnect, making community college across the state tuition-free for adults over 24 — as it has been for high school graduates in state since 2014.
California could be the next to join the ranks: In April state lawmakers introduced the Degrees Not Debt scholarship. A $1.5 billion program to be phased in over five years, Degrees Not Debt would make money available to University of California and Cal State University undergraduates who already qualify for need-based aid but struggle paying non-tuition expenses, such as books, transportation and housing. The projected impact in the state, where roughly half of students graduate with student loan debt, was 392,000 students.
According to new research by Harvard University, almost 40 million Americans "live in housing they cannot afford." Homeownership has gone down and rental prices keep going up, meaning that millions of residents are forced to pay more than they reasonably should.
In the study, the researchers determined affordability by people's ability to pay 30 percent of their income or less on the cost of housing, which may include their mortgage, insurance and taxes.
Homeownership keeps declining, according to the Joint Center for Housing Studies' detailed and comprehensive 2017 State of the Nation's Housing report, in part because homes prices in many markets have continued to go up while wages have not kept pace. In 2016, "the homeownership rate fell to 63.4 percent, marking the 12th consecutive year of declines."
A lot of people who would like to buy are stuck renting, Harvard reports: "The surge in rental demand that began in 2005 is broad-based — including several types of households that traditionally prefer homeownership."
Wanted: a seasoned executive to take the top position at a troubled technology start-up. Must be willing to fix a broken culture, deal with an aggressive predecessor, battle a risky lawsuit and prepare the company for an initial public offering. Self-starters preferred.
This is essentially the pitch that Uber is making to potential chief executive candidates after Travis Kalanick, the ride-hailing company's co-founder, was ousted from the top spot last month. By some accounts, the job appears to be a thankless one at a company whose reputation is in the toilet. So who would want it?
Quite a few people, as it turns out.
More from The New York Times:Inside Travis Kalanick's Resignation as Uber's CEOWriting Health Bill, Republicans Have No Votes to SpareMillenials Should Lead the Next Labor Movement
Despite a series of scandals that have rocked Uber to its core this year, competition for the chief executive position is robust, according to people familiar with the search who asked to remain anonymous because the process is confidential. The company has received a flood of interest since Mr. Kalanick vacated his seat in June, and Uber's board has interviewed multiple candidates.
For those applicants, the calculus is easy. Despite Uber's problems, executives see an opportunity to shepherd the company — which operates in more than 80 countries and pulls in billions of dollars each quarter — through the most trying time in its eight-year history.
"This is a fantastic opportunity for someone who's wired for problem solving and wants to make their mark by turning around the image of the company," said Jason Hanold, managing partner at Hanold Associates, a boutique executive search firm. "Yes, they're inheriting Uber's entire toxic culture. But they're also getting thousands of employees who are hungry to change it."
The chance of having an impact is high. Apart from the opportunity to steer a turnaround, any chief executive would be walking into a company that has already reached enormous scale. As a result, changes made by a new chief would affect millions of people globally, not to mention Uber's work force of more than 15,000 employees and hundreds of thousands of contract drivers.
The eventual chief executive would also have the opportunity to take Uber public. The company, which began in 2009, is now the highest-valued private company in the world, with a valuation of around $70 billion. And while Uber is unprofitable, its revenue has been growing. That would make an initial public offering a huge event on Wall Street, as well as for Silicon Valley investors who have billions of dollars wagered on Uber's success.
For now, Uber's executive search committee, which includes five members of its board, has kept the lid tight on the list of candidates. After a torrent of leaks before Mr. Kalanick's departure, two of the people familiar with the search said there has been a renewed effort to keep quiet.
Among those up for consideration have been Susan Wojcicki, who leads YouTube. Others include Adam Bain, Twitter's former chief operating officer; David Cush, a former chief executive at Virgin America; the former Yahoo chief executive Marissa Mayer; and Thomas Staggs, a former chief operating officer at Disney, according to three other people familiar with the search. It was unclear what level of interest, if any, these executives had expressed in the Uber job.
Others, like the former Google sales executive Nikesh Arora, have been quietly advancing themselves for the position, according to two of the people.
Mr. Bain, Mr. Cush, Ms. Mayer, Mr. Staggs and Mr. Arora did not immediately respond to requests for comment. A YouTube spokesman declined to comment about Ms. Wojcicki.
Some candidates have expressed concern over how Uber's board operates, especially because Mr. Kalanick retains a seat. Mr. Kalanick, who remains a significant Uber shareholder, has been active in the search for his replacement, according to two of the people familiar with the candidates, although the candidates have been assured that they would have autonomy as chief executive.
Uber has other considerations in choosing a new leader. The company has faced intense criticism for its lack of diversity and has only recently begun to address the matter. Last year, Arianna Huffington, the media entrepreneur who runs the health and wellness business Thrive Global, joined Uber's board, and in the past few months the company has recruited female and minority executives.
For the eventual winning candidate, there will be plenty of difficulties. Negative perception of Uber tripled, to 27 percent of respondents, in a survey conducted in May by cg42, a management consulting firm. The company has had a more difficult time hiring technical talent in light of its negative image.
Uber also faces a lawsuit filed by Waymo, the self-driving car company spun out of Google, over claims of stolen trade secrets. And Uber is in the midst of reforming its fractured culture after a former employee spoke publicly about sexual harassment at the company.
While the job will make Uber's next chief executive wealthy, it will not necessarily make him filthy rich: With the company's valuation already so high, any stock doled out to a new chief would most likely have to experience an enormous rise in value after a public offering for the returns to be considerable.
Yet the positives of the job still outweigh the negatives for hopeful applicants.
"Even with all the problems that companies like Uber have, there will always be top candidates who want to go there," Mr. Hanold said. "These people are problem solvers: The hairier a scenario is, the more they're attracted to trying to fix it."

The United States remains committed to free trade but wants to re-examine some trade deals and correct their excesses, U.S. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said on Saturday after G-20 finance chiefs backtracked on past commitments about trade.
Making only a token reference to trade in their communique, finance ministers and central bank chiefs from the world's top 20 economies broke with a decade-long tradition of endorsing open trade, a clear defeat for host nation Germany, which has fought to maintain the G-20's past commitments.
"What was in the past communique is not necessarily relevant from my standpoint," Mnuchin told a news conference in Baden Baden after his first meeting with the finance chiefs of the world's 20 biggest economies.
"I understand what the president's desire is and his policies, and I negotiated them from here. I couldn't be happier with the outcome," Mnuchin said.
In the new U.S. administration's biggest clash yet with the international community, G-20 finance chiefs rowed back on a pledge to reject protectionism and maintain an open and inclusive global trade system.
"We believe in free trade, we are in one of the largest markets in the world, we are one of the largest trading partners in the world, trade has been good for us, it has been good for other people," Mnuchin said.
"Having said that, we want to re-examine certain agreements," Mnuchin said, adding that NAFTA would have to be reviewed, some WTO rules needed to be better enforced and older agreements may have to be renegotiated.
Although the government is also reviewing financial regulation, Mnuchin pledged support for the now-stalled Basel III accord, a major global attempt to regulate lenders consistently.
"Were hopeful there will be a resolution on the Basel III/IV changes," Mnuchin said. "We need to make sure we bring unity to the international market."
See also: G-20 fails to agree on free trade and protectionism — climate change is missing, too
The never-ending quest for the perfect apartment in New York City could be getting that much tougher, new data suggests, thanks to new competition for scarce supply from other parts of the world—and one surprising country in particular.
Newly released figures from TripleMint, a residential real estate start-up based in New York, points to a shift in the countries most interested in buying into the city's active housing market, which attracts more than its fair share of domestic and international buyers and remains one of the world's priciest.
Over the course of 2015 and 2016, the company tracked the location of visitors on its website hunting for housing, ranking countries by a percentage of total foreign searches for that year, and compared the results. It found the biggest mover was Russia, which jumped from #20 on their top searchers list in 2015, to #2 last year, landing just behind the United Kingdom.
The results were somewhat surprising, taking place during a volatile period in U.S./Russia relations. The country is being hammered by accusations of hacking as well as electoral meddling, although it was unclear to what extent those events influenced TripleMint's data, if at all.
Nevertheless, the findings came as a surprise to the company.
"We had no idea that we were going to find that," David Walker, TripleMint's CEO, told CNBC in an interview. "It was fascinating seeing this data and how much search traffic has picked up from Russia."
Minneapolis Federal Reserve Bank President Neel Kashkari, the lone dissenter against the U.S. central bank's decision this week to raise interest rates, said on Friday the U.S. economy is still falling short on employment and inflation.
Even after the data support tightening, Kashkari said in a statement, the Fed should wait on raising interest rates until it publishes a detailed plan for how and when it will reduce its $4.5 trillion balance sheet.
"The announcement of our balance sheet plan could trigger somewhat tighter monetary conditions," Kashkari said, resulting in the equivalent of a rate hike of unknown size. "After it has been published and the market response is understood, we can return to using the federal funds rate as our primary policy tool, with the balance sheet normalization under way in the background."
Kashkari's approach appears to differ sharply from the one embraced by Fed Chair Janet Yellenand the majority of her fellow policymakers, who want to wait on any reductions in the balance sheet until they have lifted rates well away from zero.
The Fed this week raised its target range for the federal funds rate to 0.75 percent to 1 percent, and Yellen said that while policymakers had discussed what to do about the balance sheet, they had come to no decisions.
The Fed built its portfolio over years of bond-buying in an effort to stimulate hiring and investment when interest rates were already at rock-bottom. It says the system is still working to keep longer-term borrowing costs lower than they otherwise would be.
Kashkari said in his statement that because inflation is still short of the Fed's 2-percent target and the labor market is still showing signs of slack, the Fed's prior level of rates was appropriate.
In a post published on Medium published on Friday, Kashkari added, "Based on our actions rather than our words, we are treating 2 percent as a ceiling rather than a target. I am not necessarily opposed to having an inflation ceiling... However, I am opposed to stating we have a target but then behaving as though it were a ceiling."
In another sign of his departure from the mainstream at the Fed, Kashkari said he sees little advantage in starting rate hikes now so that they can be gradual, a key justification by Yellen for acting now even as she herself sees more room for improvement in the job market.
"If we are surprised by higher inflation than we currently expect, we might need to raise rates more aggressively," he said. "Some argue that gradual rate increases are better than waiting and having to move aggressively. It isn't clear to me that one path is obviously better than the other."
CNBC contributes to this post.
Watch: Fed executing well

U.S. factories cranked out more autos, steel and computers in February, the sixth straight monthly increase in manufacturing output.
The Federal Reserve says factory production rose a seasonally adjusted 0.5 percent last month from January. That followed another 0.5 percent gain the previous month.
Mining output rose 2.7 percent in February, spurred partly by more oil and gas drilling. Utility production plunged 5.7 percent as unseasonably warm weather reduced the need for heating. Overall industrial production, which includes manufacturing, mining and utilities, was unchanged in February.
Factories are benefiting from greater consumer and business optimism since the elections. Companies are spending more on big-ticket items such as industrial machinery, and Americans are buying cars at near-record levels. Overseas growth has spurred more exports.
U.S. President Donald Trump says he wants to build dozens of new warships in one of the biggest peace-time expansions of the U.S. Navy. But interviews with ship builders, unions, and a review of public and internal documents show major obstacles to that plan.
The initiative could cost nearly $700 billion in government funding, take 30 years to complete and require hiring tens of thousands of skilled shipyard workers — many of whom don't exist yet because they still need to be hired and trained, according to the interviews and the documents reviewed.
Trump has vowed a huge build-up of the U.S. military to project American power in the face of an emboldened China and Russia. That includes expanding the Navy to 350 warships from 275 today. He has provided no specifics, including how soon he wants the larger fleet.
The Navy has given Defense Secretary Jim Mattis a report that explores how the country's industrial base could support higher ship production, Admiral Bill Moran, the vice chief of Naval Operations with oversight of the Navy's shipbuilding outlook, told Reuters.
He declined to give further details. But those interviewed for this story say there are clearly two big issues — there are not enough skilled workers in the market, from electricians to welders, and after years of historically low production, shipyards and their suppliers, including nuclear fuel producers, will struggle to ramp up for years.
To be sure, the first, and biggest, hurdle for Trump to overcome is to persuade a cost-conscious Congress to fund the military buildup.
The White House declined to comment. A Navy spokeswoman said increases being considered beyond the current shipbuilding plan would require "sufficient time" to allow companies to ramp up capacity.
The two largest U.S. shipbuilders, General Dynamics and Huntington Ingalls Industries, told Reuters they are planning to hire a total of 6,000 workers in 2017 just to meet current orders, such as the Columbia class ballistic missile submarine.
General Dynamics hopes to hire 2,000 workers at Electric Boat this year. Currently projected order levels would already require the shipyard to grow from less than 15,000 workers, to nearly 20,000 by the early 2030s, company documents reviewed by Reuters show.
Huntington Ingalls, the largest U.S. military shipbuilder, plans to hire 3,000 at its Newport News shipyard in Norfolk, Virginia, and another 1,000 at the Ingalls shipyard in Mississippi this year to fulfill current orders, spokeswoman Beci Brenton said.
Expect the Federal Reserve to lead markets rather than follow them, Mohamed El-Erian, chief economic advisor at Allianz, told CNBC on Thursday, a day after the Fed hiked interest rates for the second time in three months.
"There is an ongoing transition in Fed policy. This is a more confident Fed," the former co-CEO of Pimco said on "Halftime Report."
On Wednesday, the central bank increased its benchmark interest rate a quarter point amid rising confidence that the economy is poised for more robust growth.
The Fed indicated Wednesday that it still expects two more moves for the year, with the market expecting the next hike to come in June and another in December.
Government bond yields were lower while major averages in the stock market moved higher Wednesday following the Federal Open Market Committee statement.
"That is why people are calling it the 'Goldilocks Fed,'" El-Erian said Thursday. "And that's why I like to call it 'the beautiful normalization of rates.' You can normalize rates without disrupting risk assets."
On Wednesday, DoubleLine Capital CEO Jeffrey Gundlach made similar comments to CNBC. He said, "The influence of the Fed has greatly increased and the market, it is getting kind of old school where the market listens to what the Fed says."
Gundlach, who oversees more than $101 billion at Los Angeles-based DoubleLine, said U.S. economic data supported a rate increase, and further rises this year, after a series of false starts in 2015 and 2016.
— CNBC's Jeff Cox contributed to this report.
Reacting to President Donald Trump's new spending plan, House Minority Whip Steny Hoyer told CNBC on Thursday he doubts even Republican budgeteers think the White House budget blueprint "could" or "should be accomplished."
"It will be essentially dead on the arrival," Hoyer said on "Squawk Box," shortly after Trump's proposal became public.
The president's budget framework calls for boosts in defense spending by 9 percent or $54 billion to bolster readiness, and homeland security spending by nearly 7 percent or $2.8 billion to help start building his promised U.S.-Mexico border wall.
The White House proposal also calls for funding cuts of 28 percent or nearly $10.1 billion at the State Department, about 31 percent or $5.7 billion at the Environmental Protection Agency and 18 percent or $5.8 billion at the National Institutes of Health.
"It's probably the most irresponsible budget that I've seen and the most unrealistic budget that I've seen," Rep. Hoyer said.
The Maryland Democrat said that even if Trump's proposal were just a starting point in a negotiation, it needs to be rational. "It was simply a hatchet job to increase very substantially the defense side of the budget without paying for it except with these irrational cuts," he argued.
Sorely needed — and promised — spending on U.S. infrastructure could mean foreign companies take a slice of the pie.
"It's going to be hard to build out U.S. infrastructure without foreign capital ... or even foreign expertise. We'll need the steel, the iron ore," said Joe Quinlan, head of market and thematic strategy at Merrill Lynch and U.S. Trust.
"If we're going to do bullet trains, that technology is really Japan, Germany, China," he said.
Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, one of the few world leaders U.S. President Donald Trump is on good terms with, said during his U.S. visit last month that Japan's technical expertise in high-speed rail "could contribute to President Trump's growth strategy. There will be even more new jobs being born in the United States."
U.S. infrastructure received a near-failing grade in a widely followed report last week. Trump has promised to spend $1 trillion on improving areas such as transport, and some say those developments will create the higher-paying jobs needed to help lower- and middle-class Americans.
Don't expect mass layoffs of IT workers even as the world's biggest companies move more of their workload to the cloud, Oracle CEO Mark Hurd told CNBC.
"I don't know if it is so much reductions," he said on "Squawk Alley" on Thursday. "I think it is the reapplication of that talent to different opportunities to the customer."
Oracle's customers have to do so much work and so many different configurations of technology that use up a lot of labor, he said.
"The opportunity we have is to now do a lot of that work for the customer," he said. "They can reapply that budget, that manpower and that talent to things that help the company gain market share, to help the customer deliver better service to their customers."
More than 80 percent of Oracle's customers' budgets are used just to keep existing systems running, he said.
"It isn't just a displacement, it's a reapplication of that spending and that talent to higher order tasks," he added.
When the Fed voted to hike interest rates, the market reaction saw stocks rise, bond yields fall and the U.S. dollar decline against its global peers. That, according to Goldman Sachs, was pretty much precisely the wrong reaction.
After all, the U.S. central bank, by increasing its benchmark rate, was trying to tighten up things at least a little.
Instead, a measure Goldman uses to gauge financial conditions actually loosened afterward. The upshot: Investors may be underestimating how quickly the Fed will move in the future.
"We feel quite confident that they were not aiming for a large easing in financial conditions," Jan Hatzius, Goldman's chief U.S. economist, said in a note to clients. "After all, the primary point of hiking rates is to tighten financial conditions, perhaps not suddenly but at least gradually over time."
Fed officials did reiterate that they are keeping a gradualist approach to policy, with no preset course on the way back to a normalization of rates. Consequently, the term "dovish hike" gained popularity as the Federal Open Market Committee's decision, and accompanying language and economic projections, appeared not as aggressive as some market participants had feared.
Still, the reaction seemed outsized across financial markets at a time when monetary policy will be getting more restrictive, not less.
Goldman's proprietary financial conditions index showed a 0.14 percentage point easing after the FOMC decision came out at 2 p.m. Wednesday. For perspective, Hatzius said that kind of move would be the historical equivalent of a quarter-point cut in the funds rate rather than an increase.
Here's a visual for how Goldman's FCI has moved over the last nine months or so:

The direction of financial conditions is no small matter for the Fed. The measures basically take into account government debt yields and spreads in bond rates, along with stock market prices and moves in currencies, measured against economic growth projections. The Chicago Fed has its own FCI but it has not been updated since Wednesday's decision.
Monthly jobs openings — a gauge of the U.S. economy that's closely watched by Fed chair Janet Yellen — were little changed in January, the Bureau of Labor Statistics said on Thursday.
Monthly job openings were at 5.6 million on the last business day in January, the Labor Department said, up slightly from the 5.5 million openings in the previous month.
Over the month, hires and separations were little changed at 5.4 million and 5.3 million, respectively.
The quits rate was little changed at 2 .2 percent as well as the layoffs and discharges rate at 1.1 percent.
More than 3.2 million people quit their jobs in January, the most in nearly 16 years. That is a sign of confidence in the job market, since workers typically quit either when they have another job, or do not but are optimistic they can find one.
More quitting also boosts wages, because most people quit for a new job at higher pay. It also indicates that employers may be recruiting workers from other jobs by offering bigger paychecks.
Even as job openings have fallen slightly in the past year, they remain near the highest levels on records dating back to 2001. That could also push average wages higher: If employers are having trouble filling jobs, they may be forced to pay more.
Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen regularly points to quit levels as a gauge of labor market health.
"There's job security," Yellen said in a press conference Wednesday. "We're seeing more people who are feeling free to quit their jobs, getting outside offers, looking for other opportunities."
Yellen spoke after the Fed said it was lifting its short-term interest rate for the third time in 15 months.
Total hiring also jumped in January, though that figure remains below pre-recession highs. Employers hired 5.4 million people that month, up 2.6 percent from December.
The government said last week that employers added a net total of 235,000 jobs, after a similarly healthy gain of 238,000 in January. The unemployment rate fell one-tenth to 4.7 percent.
Those figures are net gains after layoffs, quits and retirements are subtracted from overall hiring.
Thursday's data comes from the Job Openings and Labor Turnover survey, or JOLTs. The report from the Labor Department is a key barometer of economic conditions, measuring job postings in different sectors, and the number of hires and layoffs.
—The Associated Press contributed to this report.
The White House budget proposed Thursday strips infrastructure funding from federal agencies to divert funds to a forthcoming executive branch infrastructure plan, according to Mick Mulvaney, director of the Office of Management and Budget.
"We believe those programs to be less effective than the package we're currently working on," Mulvaney said, calling such cuts "line-item reductions."
The administration's approach lowers or cuts entirely funding for projects deemed to have regional benefits, in order to increase funding to those with national scope. Among the priorities that fall into the latter category are investments in the nation's power grid, cybersecurity efforts and "environmentally responsible development of energy on public lands."
The biggest infrastructure programs currently sit within the Department of Transportation, which repairs highways, bridges and airports, and the Army Corps of Engineers, which maintains the country's inland waterways.
The "skinny" budget proposal released Thursday proposed a $1 billion cut to funding for the Army Corps of Engineers — amount to a 16.3 percent reduction. The White House also suggested significantly cutting Department of Transportation programs, and ending funding for so-called TIGER grants that pay for discretionary road and rail projects.
President Donald Trump will ask the U.S. Congress for dramatic cuts to many federal programs as he seeks to bulk up defense spending, start building a wall on the border with Mexico and spend more money deporting illegal immigrants.
In a federal budget proposal with many losers, the Environmental Protection Agency and State Department stand out as targets for the biggest spending reductions. Funding would disappear altogether for 19 independent bodies that count on federal money for public broadcasting, the arts and regional issues from Alaska to Appalachia.
U.S. home building jumped in February likely as unseasonably warm weather boosted the construction of single-family houses to near a 9-1/2-year high, suggesting the economy remained on solid ground despite an apparent slowdown in the first quarter.
Other data on Thursday showed a drop in the number of Americans filing new applications for unemployment benefits last week, pointing to a further tightening in the labor market.
The fairly upbeat data came a day after the Federal Reserve raised interest rates for the third time since the 2008 financial crisis. Fed Chair Janet Yellen told reporters that the U.S. central bank was sending a message that "we have confidence in the robustness of the economy and its resilience to shocks."
Housing starts increased 3.0 percent to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 1.29 million units last month, the Commerce Department said. Economists had forecast groundbreaking activity rising to a rate of 1.26 million units.
Home building was up 6.2 percent compared to February 2016.
Single-family home building, which accounts for the largest share of the residential housing market, surged 6.5 percent to a pace of 872,000 units last month, the highest level since October 2007. Single-family starts rose in the West, Northeast and Midwest, but fell in the South.
Starts for the volatile multi-family housing segment fell 3.7 percent to a pace of 416,000 units.
A robust labor market is supporting the housing market, helping it to buck weakness in other parts of the economy.
The number of Americans filing for unemployment benefits fell last week, pointing to a further tightening in the labor market.
Initial claims for state unemployment benefits dropped 2,000 to a seasonally adjusted 241,000 for the week ended March 11, the Labor Department said on Thursday. Claims for the prior week were unrevised.
It was the 106th straight week that claims remained below 300,000, a threshold associated with a healthy labor market.
That is the longest stretch since 1970, when the labor market was much smaller. Last week's drop in new applications was broadly in line with economists' expectations.
The labor market is near full employment. That, together with firming inflation, gave the Federal Reserve confidence on Wednesday to raise its overnight benchmark interest rate by 25 basis points to a range of 0.75 percent to 1.00 percent. The U.S. central bank forecast two more rate hikes this year.
A Labor Department analyst said there were no special factors influencing last week's claims data and no states had been estimated.

Republicans and Democrats alike have cut ribbons at community centers, neighborhood rehabilitation projects and affordable housing developments — and for the past 42 years those initiatives have been supported by the Community Development Block Grant Program.
Now, President Donald Trump wants to wipe out the program, according to the budget proposal released Thursday by the Office of Management and Budget. The program's current year funding is $3 billion.
"The Federal Government has spent over $150 billion on this block grant since its inception in 1974, but the program is not well-targeted to the poorest populations and has not demonstrated results," the budget proposal says. "The Budget devolves community and economic development activities to the State and local level, and redirects Federal resources to other activities."

The cut is part of a $6 billion, or 13 percent, reduction in the fiscal 2018 budget for the Department of Housing and Urban Development. The budget also includes $35 billion for HUD's rental assistance programs and proposes reforms to that program. HUD Secretary Ben Carson has been highly critical of public assistance, suggesting that too many Americans have become dependent upon it. "The president said he was going to go after wasteful and duplicative programs, programs that simply don't work. A lot of those are in HUD," OMB Director Mick Mulvaney told reporters. "We've spent a lot of money on Housing and Urban Development over the last decade without a lot to show for it. Certainly, there are some successes but there are a lot of programs that simply cannot justify their existence and that's where we zeroed in." The community development program has garnered bipartisan support since President Gerald Ford signed it into law in 1975. Roughly $150 billion has been allocated to a growing number of "entitlement communities" — generally larger cities and counties, as well as states, according to HUD. Today, roughly 1,200 cities, counties, and states participate. The community development program provides funding not just to affordable housing but for public facilities improvements like parks, health-care and child-care facilities, neighborhood rehabilitation and disaster relief. It also provides public services for seniors, youth and the disabled, among others. In 2016, close to 74,000 households received housing assistance and more than 9 million Americans benefited from public services, according to HUD's website. The program also created 17,545 jobs. "It's the life blood for many cities," said Stephen Glaude, CEO of the Coalition for Nonprofit Housing and Economic Development and a former HUD undersecretary in the first Bush administration. "It's considered one of the most flexible federal programs in that it allows local communities to determine their greatest needs." Glaude said he expected the program to be cut but never dreamed it would be eliminated, especially given its bipartisan popularity. "To come in and blatantly eliminate these programs because you're trying to meet a budget number without talking to the stakeholders, the constituents of these programs, is a little concerning. In fact, it's more than a little concerning. It's actually alarming," he said. He added that without the community development program, the number of affordable housing projects that a city could do would drop dramatically, at a time when cities across the country are struggling to keep pace.
It's not unusual for a newly minted White House to present what's known as a "skinny budget," a wish-list of spending requests for Congress and some basic economic projections.
However, President Donald Trump's first crack at the budget, released on Thursday, took "skinny" to a new, anemic level as he laid out his plans for boosting military spending, cutting foreign aid and slashing an array of domestic programs.
Spreadsheets are out. Bullet points are in. Weighing in at a mere 53 pages, and containing only four slender tables, Trump's budget put very little meat on the bones for experts hungry to dive into the details of the new administration's fiscal policy.
That may make it the skinniest skinny budget, by far, when compared with the 40 years of presidential budgets in transition years tracked by the Congressional Research Service (CRS).
When President Jimmy Carter took office, his first budget document was 101 pages, the CRS said.
President George H.W. Bush's first take was 193 pages, and President George W. Bush's was around the same length, at 207 pages.
President Bill Clinton's first budget document was 145 pages, while President Barack Obama's initial take was a leaner 134 pages.

The difference is in focus. Trump's budget looks only at "discretionary" programs for the year ahead, accounting for only about a third of the overall budget.
It makes no assumptions about "mandatory" spending on programs like Social Security or Medicare, says nothing about spending beyond fiscal 2018, and gives no projections about how promised tax cuts and infrastructure spending might affect the nation's bottom line.
"This is a budget blueprint, not a complete budget," said Trump's budget director Mick Mulvaney, ahead of its release, promising a full buffet of data, forecasts, and details in the full budget in mid-May.
To be sure, budget experts were not expecting a hefty document. The Trump administration had hinted it would be on the thin side of skinny.
"It could be emaciated," Robert Bixby, executive director of the Concord Coalition, a non-partisan budget reform advocacy group, said in an interview on Tuesday.
"At some point, you've got to put your cards on the table, and show some numbers," Bixby said.
Kenneth Baer, a former associate director in Obama's Office of Management and Budget, said an overly skinny budget would make it hard to interpret how the Trump administration would spend taxpayers' money.
"It's sort of like building a house, but only putting up the front door," Baer said.
Donald Trump's plan to tear up NAFTA could hit U.S. jobs, Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau warned in an exclusive interview with NBC News.
The president has  begun moves to renegotiate what he called the "worst trade deal ever approved in this country." However, Trudeau said the Clinton-era agreement had "led to a lot of great jobs for a whole lot of people on both sides of the border."
Trudeau spoke to NBC News' Tom Brokaw at the New York launch of "Come From Away," a Broadway musical about international friendships and the cross-border impact of 9/11.
It tells the story of the 38 international flights forced to land in Gander, Newfoundland, when U.S. airspace was closed following the attacks by al Qaeda in 2001.
Ivanka Trump and Nikki Haley, the new U.S. ambassador to the United Nations, were among the guests at Wednesday night's event.
Brokaw's interview with Trudeau will air on TODAY on Thursday morning.
Trudeau said his message to the new administration was that "good jobs, middle class, happen on both sides of the border because of the close relationship" between the neighbors.
"NAFTA's been ... improved a dozen times over the past 20 years," Trudeau said. "There's always opportunities to talk about how we can make it better. It has led to a lot of great jobs for a whole lot of people on both sides of the border and I very much take him at his word when he talks about just making a few tweaks. Because that's what we're always happy to do."
More from NBC News:North Korea Nuclear Program: 20 Years of Diplomacy Has Failed: TillersonJudge Blocks Second Travel Order; Trump Slams 'Judicial Overreach'Clinton Ally Says Smoke, But No Fire: No Russia-Trump Collusion
Trudeau added: "We've got auto parts criss-crossing the border six times before they end up in a finished product. You've got over $2 billion a day going back and forth. So, making sure that the border is … secure but also smooth in its flow of goods and people is essential to good jobs on both sides of the border."
President Trump has vowed to withdraw from NAFTA, which took effect in 1994 and includes Canada and Mexico, if he cannot renegotiate it to benefit American interests. He  formally withdrew the U.S. from the Trans-Pacific Partnership within days of taking office in January and said he would renegotiate NAFTA "at the appropriate time."
The  U.S. Chamber of Commerce says the United States conducts more than $3.2 billion worth of trade with its North American neighbors every day. NAFTA brings export revenue worth $36,000 for each and every American factory worker, it says.
A  study published by the Center for Automotive Research in January suggested the withdrawal from NAFTA or the implementation of punitive tariffs could result in the loss of 31,000 U.S. jobs.
Trump has called the deal "one-sided," citing a "$60 billion trade deficit with Mexico."
Revisiting comments made during last month's trip to the White House, the Canadian leader said that "we'll agree to disagree on certain things."
"Come From Away" tells the story of how Gander's 10,000 inhabitants rallied to accommodate the 6,700 travelers whose planes were diverted and then stranded in the hours after the 9/11 attacks.
Trudeau said the episode underscored the close relationship between the U.S. and Canada and "encapsulates so much of what we've shared through great times and also through extraordinarily tragic times."
It also highlighted what is now a stark difference between the nations over immigration, he said.
"I know and I've always felt for Canada that we recognize that diversity is a great source of strength," Trudeau said. "I think Canadians have always been interested in the choices Americans make because the choices you make inevitably impact upon us … and how we make sure that we get that balance right between continuing to have a good relationship and standing for the things we believe in is what we expect of ourselves."

If the Federal Reserve had any doubts about raising interest rates, the government's latest inflation data should help put them to rest.
As Fed policymakers wrapped up their latest two-day meeting, the central bank was widely expected to boost interest rates as the labor market continues to tighten and inflation moves well into their longstanding target range.
Despite the acceleration in price gains, though, the overall strength of the economy remains relatively weak.
Fed policymakers got the latest confirmation that inflation is heating up on Wednesday. The government reported that consumer prices ticked up again last month, pushing the annual rate to 2.7 percent, the biggest year-on-year gain since March 2012.
The consumer price report came a day after the latest reading on producer prices, a measure of the future price increases coming down the pipeline.
The government's producer price index rose faster than expected in February as the rising cost of services pushed the annual gain to 2.2 percent, also the biggest gain in nearly five years, pointing to steadily rising inflation pressures.
"Looking down the road, sharp rises in intermediate goods costs are pointing to further increases in consumer finished goods prices and that doesn't bode well for inflation," said Joel Naroff, chief economist at Naroff Economic Advisors.
For much of the recovery since the Great Recession, the threat of higher inflation has been fairly modest. It wasn't long ago that central bankers around the world were worried that a sustained bout of falling prices could pose a greater threat to global growth.
The nation's home builders couldn't be happier with President Trump's first move to roll back strict environmental rules.
A monthly index of builder sentiment jumped six points to the highest level in 12 years. The National Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo Housing Market index hit 71 in March, a sizable jump from 58 in March of 2016. Anything above 50 is considered positive sentiment.
"Builders are buoyed by President Trump's actions on regulatory reform, particularly his recent executive order to rescind or revise the waters of the U.S. rule that impacts permitting," said NAHB Chairman Granger MacDonald, a home builder and developer from Kerrville, Texas.
Builder sentiment had moved higher just after the election, but then receded at the start of the year amid rising mortgage rates and a continued labor shortage. Trump signed an executive order at the end of February designed to roll back a 2015 rule from the Obama administration known as the Waters of the United States. Home builders have called the rule "burdensome" and claim that 25 percent of the cost of a home today is due to regulation, including this one.
Builders are not only pleased with Trump's first move on water, they also expect further deregulation to bring down construction costs. There are, however, other roadblocks keeping the nation's builders from producing more homes, which are sorely needed in today's tight housing market.
"While builders are clearly confident, we expect some moderation in the index moving forward," said NAHB Chief Economist Robert Dietz. "Builders continue to face a number of challenges, including rising material prices, higher mortgage rates, and shortages of lots and labor."
Of the index's three components, current sales conditions jumped seven points to 78, and sales expectations over the next six months rose five points — also to 78. Buyer traffic, which had been mired in negative territory, finally broke out, rising eight points to 54.
On three-month moving averages regionally, the sentiment index for the Midwest increased three points to 68 and for the South rose one point to 68. In the West it fell three points to 76 and in the Northeast fell one point to 48.
Manufacturing in New York state expanded for a fifth straight month in March. But the pace was slightly slower than in February, when activity had climbed to the highest point in more than two years.
The Federal Reserve Bank of New York says that its Empire State manufacturing index in March stood at 16.4, down slightly from the two-year high of 18.7 reached in February.
The report said that the index for new orders climbed to its highest level in several years, pointing to a substantial increase in orders. The index for unfilled orders jumped to the highest point in a decade.
The regional manufacturing survey for New York added to recent evidence that U.S. manufacturing is recovering after nearly two years of mostly flat output.
The Federal Reserve on Wednesday is expected to raise its benchmark interest rate for the third time since the financial crisis. The Fed is expected to announce the decision at the conclusion of a two-day meeting of its policy-making committee. The move comes earlier than markets anticipated at the beginning of the year.
More from New York Times:  Kushners, Trump in-laws, weigh $400 million deal with Chinese firm Why the Fed has historically changed interest ratesTrump wrote off $100 million in losses in 2005, leaked forms show
Why is the Federal Reserve raising interest rates?
It's illuminating to flip the question on its head: Why not?
The unemployment rate, one of the gauges the Fed watches most closely,  fell to 4.7 percent in February, a healthy level by historical standards. Inflation, the other gauge, finally appears to be reviving.  Prices rose 1.9 percent over the 12 months ending in January, close to the Fed's 2 percent annual target.
The Fed continues to hold its benchmark interest rate at a level intended to stimulate economic growth by encouraging borrowing and taking risks. It sits in a range from 0.5 percent to 0.75 percent.
The Fed's goals are getting closer. Officials want to ease up on the gas.
But the economy is still growing at a lackluster pace.
That's true. The government estimates that the economy grew just 1.6 percent in 2016, compared with 2.6 percent in 2015. Moreover, private economic forecasters don't see signs of an acceleration in the first quarter of 2017.
But the most important factor is the slow pace of productivity growth.
There are only two ways to expand an economy: add workers, or get more out of every worker. The domestic work force is growing slowly, and lately,  so is productivity. Low interest rates can't fix either problem.
The Fed's chairwoman, Janet L. Yellen, has urged the rest of the government to consider policies that might increase productivity growth, like investment in education or infrastructure, or changes in government regulation. But if anything like that happens, it won't be for a long time.
For now, the Fed has concluded that the economy is growing at roughly the maximum sustainable pace. In this view, stimulating faster growth by keeping interest rates at a low level would simply drive up inflation.
Wait, you mentioned workers. Millions of American adults are not working. Couldn't low interest rates help to create more jobs?
One of the most worrying economic trends in American life is the long-term decline in the share of prime-age adults who are working. Last month, 21.7 percent of men and women ages 25 to 54 did not work.
Most of those people, moreover, are not counted in the unemployment rate because that government statistic counts only people who are actively seeking employment.
Faster economic growth could help to draw people back into the labor force by encouraging employers to offer higher wages or to invest in training. This happened on a large scale in the 1990s, and some economists want the Fed to try it again.
Others, however, are dubious that lower rates can expand the work force much further. They point to evidence that many of those not working have health problems, educational deficits or other issues that make them less attractive to employers.
The Fed isn't giving up just yet. The expected rate increase on Wednesday would leave the benchmark rate below 1 percent. That is still a level intended to provide a modest stimulus.
O.K., the Fed is raising rates on Wednesday. What happens next?
The Fed said in December that it planned to raise rates three times in 2017. This would be the first increase. If the Fed kept to that schedule, its benchmark rate would end the year in a range from 1.25 percent to 1.5 percent.
The Fed is also scheduled to publish a new round of forecasts by its top officials on Wednesday. Analysts and investors will be looking closely for signs that the Fed is thinking about adding a fourth rate increase this year or moving faster in coming years.
More rate increases would suggest that the Fed thinks the economy will continue to get better. Since the financial crisis, almost every change in the Fed's forecasts has been in the direction of greater pessimism. Optimism would be a new look for the central bank.
Is the Fed trying to pop a bubble in the stock market?
Fed officials have been measured in their comments about the market's rapid rise. William C. Dudley, the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, said last month that since the presidential election, "animal spirits have been unleashed a bit." Ms. Yellen offered a similar analysis in congressional testimony last month. "I think market participants likely are anticipating shifts in fiscal policy that will stimulate growth and perhaps raise earnings," she said.
Officials have cited the market's rise as one reason for moving toward higher rates. Among other things, higher stock prices mean investors have more money to spend. But there is no sign of a determined effort to pop a bubble.
Should consumers rush to buy houses or cars before rates start rising?
When the Fed raises interest rates, consumer borrowing costs tend to increase, but the relationship is not mechanical. The average interest rate on new car loans, for example, was 5 percent in 2015 and 4.9 percent in 2016, even though the Fed raised its benchmark rate for the first time since the financial crisis at the end of 2015.
The basic reason is that loan rates reflect other factors, including expectations about future financial conditions. In general, the longer the term of the loan, the smaller the impact of the Fed's decision making. Rates on credit card debt tend to increase immediately; the impact on mortgage loans is more difficult to predict.
Over the longer term, however, the Fed's gradual march toward higher interest rates is likely to raise borrowing costs for pretty much every kind of loang.
Will savings accounts finally start to pay a rate that is not so laughably low?
Probably not any time soon. Banks tend to raise interest rates on loans more quickly than they raise rates on deposits. That was certainly the pattern after the Fed last raised rates, in December. Last week, the average rate on a six-month certificate of deposit was 0.14 percent. Last year at this time: 0.13 percent.
JPMorgan Chase CEO Jamie Dimon thinks there could be another stimulus coming to the market — but it wouldn't come directly from government.
Speaking on Tuesday to reporters on behalf of the Business Roundtable, an advocacy group Dimon currently chairs, he said the act of repatriating corporate cash held outside the U.S. back into the country would spur substantial economic growth, regardless of how companies use those funds.
"If all companies did [with repatriated funds] was pay dividends and buy back stock, think of that as QE4 ... and far cheaper, in my opinion," Dimon said, comparing the stimulative effect to that of the Federal Reserve's multiyear monetary easing. "The shareholder will decide what to do with it. It's not like it disappears after that. It is fuel to the system."
U.S. consumer prices rose at a slower pace in February.
Clothing and housing costs rose last month, while motor vehicle and gasoline prices dipped.
The Labor Department says consumer prices rose 0.1 percent in February, a sharp deceleration from the 0.6 percent jump in January. But the Federal Reserve appears to be poised Wednesday to raise a key short-term rate for the third time since late 2015 as inflation has picked up after running consistently below the central bank's 2 percent target.
Consumer prices have risen 2.7 per cent over the past year. Excluding volatile food and energy categories, prices have increased 2.2 percent.
Several key categories are running above that average. Housing costs have risen 3.5 percent during the year, while the price of medical treatment has climbed 3.4 per cent.
Americans spent only slightly more last month at retail stores compared with January, a sign of consumer caution despite rising optimism about the economy.
The Commerce Department says retail sales ticked up a seasonally adjusted 0.1 percent in February, after a much bigger gain of 0.6 percent the previous month. January's gain was revised higher.
The figures suggest that strong job gains this year, near record-high stock prices and decent pay gains haven't yet lifted spending. But last month's sluggish pace could prove temporary.
Economists note that spending was likely held back by delays in tax refund payments. A new law has required tougher scrutiny of a tax credit claimed by lower-income taxpayers. Wal-Mart said last month that the delay had slowed sales at its stores in February.
President Donald Trump on Thursday will offer the first details of his plans for deep cuts in domestic programs and foreign aid, releasing a budget outline that would boost military spending by $54 billion and seek cuts of the same size in non-defense programs.
Early drafts described by government officials call for dramatic cuts at some agencies: a quarter of the Environmental Protection Agency's budget, a third of the State Department's spending, and across-the-board cuts to other agencies as the Trump administration seeks to beef up military spending.
The numbers in Thursday's budget could differ from those early drafts but some agencies would take a big hit.
"They're really going to be cutting into bone," said Kenneth Baer, a former associate director at the Office of Management and Budget who helped draft President Barack Obama's first four budgets.
The document will kick off months of debate on government spending, with Democrats and moderate Republicans worried the budget could force tough decisions on popular programs such as aid for disabled children and hot meals for the elderly - and conservatives pushing for more cuts down the line.
New administrations typically submit to Congress what is known as a "skinny budget" - a broad outline of spending proposals - in their initial months in office, with lengthy volumes of fiscal plans and projections following a couple of months later.
But the Trump budget for the fiscal year that begins on Oct. 1 may be more truncated than usual, said three budget experts interviewed by Reuters.
The document is expected to look only at one narrow piece of the budget: "discretionary" programs that are subject to renewal every year and not the massive "entitlement" programs such as the Social Security retirement program and the Medicare and Medicaid health programs.
"This one appears as though it will be one of the skinniest budgets of recent memory. Possibly emaciated," said Maya MacGuineas, president of the Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget.
Social programs such as Social Security and Medicare account for the majority of overall government costs. Trump pledged to protect the two programs during the campaign.
"If they put out a budget as skinny as advertised, it might not really tell us a whole lot about the president's overall budget and the direction of fiscal policy," said Robert Bixby, executive director of the Concord Coalition, a nonpartisan budget reform advocacy group.
Mortgage interest rates moved to the highest level since 2014 last week, as the Federal Reserve indicated it will more than likely increase short-term interest rates at its meeting Wednesday.
That lit a fire under homeowners who clearly saw this as a last chance to refinance at the lowest rates.
Total mortgage application volume rose 3.1 percent last week from the previous week. The seasonally adjusted tally from the Mortgage Bankers Association remains 12 percent lower than a year ago, when refinance volume was much more robust.
Refinance volume, however, did move 4 percent higher for the week, increasing to 45.6 percent of total applications. Refinance activity remains 27 percent lower versus a year ago.
"Surprisingly, refinance application volume increased for the week, perhaps a sign that homeowners see rates moving away from them and are moving to lock in now before rates increase further," said Mike Fratantoni, MBA's chief economist.
The average contract interest rate for 30-year fixed-rate mortgages with conforming loan balances of $424,100 or less increased to 4.46 percent, from 4.36 percent, with points decreasing to 0.37 from 0.44, including the origination fee, for 80 percent loan-to-value ratio loans.
Mortgage applications to purchase a home, which are less sensitive to weekly rate moves, rose 2 percent for the week and are 6 percent higher than the same week a year ago. Mortgage rates were lower last year, but consumers are feeling slightly better about the economy today than a year ago and more millennials are aging into their homebuying years.
"February's job report showed strong job growth and faster wage growth. We expect that the benefits from growing household incomes will continue to outweigh the headwind of slightly higher mortgage rates," Fratantoni said. "We continue to forecast strong growth in home sales this year."
The adjustable-rate mortgage share of activity increased to 8.2 percent of total applications, the highest level since October 2014. Adjustable-rate loans offer lower interest rates and are becoming more popular as rates rise and affordability weakens.
Mortgage interest rates continued to move higher Monday, as the yield on the 10-year Treasury bond, which mortgage lenders loosely follow, rose again. It held steady Tuesday, despite another rise in bond yields, but that is likely due to anxiety over the Fed's decision. The Fed's rate increase is expected, but the commentary from Fed Chairman Janet Yellen about the future is still up in the air.
"We won't know if the Fed's actual forecasts are faster or slower than expected until we see how markets react at 2 p.m. ET," said Matthew Graham, chief operating officer at Mortgage News Daily. "If the Fed accelerates less than expected, there is still a chance for mortgage rates to hold the line at the current ceiling (4.375 percent for top-tier, 30-year fixed scenarios for the average lender). If forecasts outpace expectations, rates could move higher quickly."
The CNBC Fed Survey for March sees 100 percent of respondents believing the Federal Reserve will announce a rate increase on Wednesday and 70 percent saying it will do so again in June.
The 50 respondents, who include economists, fund managers and strategists, now also firmly forecast at least three rate hikes this year.
"A March rate hike makes it easier for the FOMC to hike rates three times," Jack Kleinhenz, chief economist at the National Retail Federation, wrote in response to the survey. "I believe that the economy can absorb a few hikes this year, with the strength of the economy being driven by the strength of U.S. consumer spending."
About 60 percent of respondents see the Fed hiking three times this year and 25 percent look for four rates hikes. Some of them some say the Fed is behind the curve when it comes to inflation.
"The Fed is now running to catch the train," said Lynn Reaser, chief economist at Point Loma Nazarene University. "Despite a multitude of uncertainties that have blocked past rate hikes, the risk of moving too slowly has grown increasingly large."
The Fed funds rate is seen rising to 1.43 percent this year, up considerably from the 1.09 percent average predicted before the November election. Next year, the funds rate is forecast to hit 2.25 percent and rise to 2.73 percent by 2019. The Fed is seen hitting its terminal rate, or final level in this rate-hike cycle, of 2.95 percent in the second quarter of 2019.
In total, survey respondents have priced in roughly 50 basis points of additional Fed tightening since the election as monetary policy hands off the reins to fiscal policy for steering the economy. The question is whether markets have priced in the additional hikes.
"I think it is possible that the FOMC could be on the cusp of raising rates more aggressively and that the market has not incorporated that possibility into valuations," said Merrill Ross, managing director at Wunderlich. "The strength of the U.S. dollar and consequent implications for importers (mostly retailers) is worrisome."
Just about half of respondents say "expected fiscal policy" now has the biggest influence on their growth forecasts, with just 13 percent picking monetary policy and 19 percent saying they have equal influence. Wall Street looks to be upbeat on the outlook for economic reforms from the Trump administration, though perhaps not as upbeat as the administration.
Respondents give positive ratings to President Donald Trump's plans to deregulate the economy and enact business and individual tax cuts but give his trade policies negative marks. "We could get some additional growth from prudent tax cuts, looser regulations and infrastructure spending, but if the U.S. becomes highly protectionist, U.S. and global growth will be severely curtailed,'' said Kurt Karl, chief economist at Swiss Re.
Sixty percent oppose the border adjustment tax proposed by House Republicans, up from 45 percent in the prior survey. The president has yet to embrace the tax.
On average, since the election respondents have raised their growth forecasts for 2017 by just 0.2 percentage points and by 0.4 for 2018, considerably below the optimistic views of the president and his team, who say their plans can add 1 or even 2 percentage points to growth. In the survey, 39 percent say fiscal stimulus is needed but 54 percent say it is not because the economy is already near full employment and stimulus risks higher inflation. That's up 6 points from the Fed Survey in January and a sign of a schism between the White House and many Wall Street forecasters over the effectiveness and necessity of tax cuts and additional spending.
Respondents are even more convinced stock market expectations for new policies from the Trump administration are too optimistic. Just a third see them as realistic, down from 39 percent in the January survey, and 64 percent say they are too optimistic, up 8 points. Wall Street is somewhat more convinced that recent stock market gains have been driven by solid economic fundamentals, including a better corporate profit outlook, but a solid majority still think policy expectations from the new administration are the main driver for the rally.
Respondents increased their forecasts for the S&P 500 this year to 2,427 for 2017 and to 2,555 for 2018. That means 2.3 percent more growth is forecast for stocks this year and 7.7 percent through the end of next year.
"Second-half headwinds for the S&P 500 include concerns about wage inflation (and general inflation) in 2018 and a Fed that might be 'behind the curve' next year," said Scott Wren, senior global equity strategist at Wells Fargo Investment Institute.
Overall, respondents have high expectations that the president's agenda will be enacted. Tax cuts are seen becoming law by the fourth quarter of this year and reform of the Dodd-Frank bank regulation bill is expected by the first quarter of 2018. Reform of Fannie and Freddie is forecast not to happen until third quarter of 2018 and a third of respondents say it will never happen.
There's more optimism for health-care reform, with the average respondent seeing it enacted in third quarter of this year, but there is more debate about its value. Thirty-eight percent say the new GOP health plan is better than Obamacare and 34 percent say it's worse. Forty-five percent say the bill would have no effect on economic growth, while 38 percent say it would improve growth somewhat.
Some advice from survey respondents for the president: Stop tweeting. Forty-seven percent say the president's missives make it less likely his economic policies will be enacted. Just 9 percent of respondents say it helps his cause, while 38 percent believe it has a negative effect.
U.S. producer prices increased more than expected in February, and the year-on-year gain was the largest in nearly five years, pointing to a steady rise inflation pressures.
The Labor Department said on Tuesday that its producer price index for final demand increased 0.3 percent last month after rising 0.6 percent in January. Economists polled by Reuters had forecast a 0.1 percent uptick.
In the 12 months through February, the PPI jumped 2.2 percent, the biggest advance since March 2012 and ahead of the 2.0 percent gain forecast in the Reuters poll. It followed a 1.6 percent increase in January.
Producer prices are rising as the prior weak readings, induced by cheap oil, drop out of the calculation. Crude oil prices have risen above $50 per barrel.
Also boosting price pressures are the dollar's 1.5 percent drop against the currencies of the United States' main trading partners since January and overall commodity price gains in tandem with a firming global economy.
A key gauge of underlying producer price pressures that excludes food, energy and trade services increased 0.3 percent in February, the biggest gain since April 2016. The so-called core PPI rose 0.2 percent in January.
Core PPI increased 1.8 percent in the 12 months through February after advancing 1.6 percent in January.
The Federal Reserve has a 2 percent inflation target and tracks a measure that is currently at 1.7 percent. Fed officials were due to start a two-day policy meeting later on Tuesday.
The U.S. central bank is expected to raise its overnight benchmark interest rate by 25 basis points to a range of 0.75 percent and 1 percent. It has projected three hikes in 2017.
In February, prices for final demand services increased 0.4 percent, accounting for more than 80 percent of the rise in the PPI. That was the biggest rise since June 2016 and followed a 0.3 percent gain in January.

President Donald Trump's potential appointees to the Federal Reserve may not be as open to future rate hikes as current members, strategist Mark Grant said on Tuesday.
In an interview on "Squawk Box," the Hilltop Securities chief strategist said the Fed of tomorrow will not be the Fed of today.
"Mr. Trump will appoint at least three people we know of to the Fed and maybe more. I think we'll see a very different Fed. And I just don't see the desire by the new members of the Fed to hike interest rates, stop lending, cause major problems for commercial real estate, residential real estate," Grant said.
Market expectations for a rate hike in March were around 93 percent Tuesday, according to the CME Group's FedWatch tool. The CNBC Fed Survey found 100 percent certainty among its 50 respondents. The Fed's monetary policy committee meets Tuesday and Wednesday.
The Fed is expected to hike interest rates at least three times this year.
During his campaign, Trump said Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen was keeping interest rates low because of political pressure from the Obama administration.
Yellen has told Congress she plans to complete her term as chair. It expires in January. Her 14-year term expires in 2024.
--Reuters contributed to this report.
Infrastructure spending is the key to increasing economic growth, because it will give Americans better-paying jobs, a prominent investment banker and economist said.
"The private sector has done all it reasonably can, yet the U.S. labor market remains a shadow of its former self. It is time to rebuild America," Daniel Alpert, a founding managing partner of Westwood Capital, said Monday in a presentation titled "The Case for Aggressive Fiscal Spending on Infrastructure in 2017."

Source: Westwood Capital
Alpert's argument makes a strong counterpoint to economists who believe that investing in infrastructure won't help the labor market now because the country is already at "full employment" — meaning most people who want a job, have a job.
Last week's jobs report showed solid growth in the U.S. labor market, and low unemployment. But overall economic growth has held near a slow 2 percent level.

Source: Westwood Capital
Alpert's argument is that the reason for such lackluster growth is that more and more jobs are being created in less productive, lower-paying services industries. Restaurants and retail stores are examples of such businesses.
The Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta said Monday that Raphael Bostic will succeed Dennis Lockhart as president and CEO.
Bostic, 50, will take on the role after Lockhart retired from the Atlanta Fed on Feb. 28.
"We are very pleased that Raphael will join the Atlanta Fed as its president and chief executive officer," said Thomas Fanning, chairman of the board of the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta.
"He is a seasoned and versatile leader, bringing with him a wealth of experience in public policy and academia. Raphael also has significant experience leading complex organizations and managing interdisciplinary teams. He is a perfect bridge between people and policy," he said.
Bostic said in a statement, "The Reserve Banks are vital contributors to our nation's economic and financial success. I'm excited about the opportunity to work with the Bank's well-respected staff in advancing the excellent reputation this organization has built over many years."
Lockhart served in his role since March 1, 2007, and is beyond the 65-year age limit that the Fed sets for reappointment of regional bank presidents to a new 10-year term, Reuters reported.  He plans on continuing to pursue his "interests in public policy, civic work and private business," the bank said.
Bostic worked at the Federal Reserve Board of Governors from 1995 to 2001, serving as an economist and then a senior economist in the monetary and financial studies section.
— Reuters contributed to this report.

As the Republican-controlled House struggles to gain support for its Obamacare replacement bill before moving on to cutting taxes, Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy told CNBC on Monday his party's agenda is all about growing the economy.
If economic growth were to advance at a faster pace, 3.5 to 4 percent, "all these problems" the nation faces financially "will go away," the Republican congressman said on "Squawk Box." "The future of where we're going is so much better than where we are," he added.
Specifically on the GOP's American Health Care Act, McCarthy said, "We're in a very good place right now."
"With some [lawmakers] from both extremes of the party complaining, it must mean you're in a good place," McCarthy added. The bottom line, he argued, "This is the bill that President Trump supports. This is fundamental change."
The Congressional Budget Office could release as soon as Monday its score of the bill's costs.
The Federal Reserve is widely expected to increase the short-term interest rates it controls by 25 basis points. There have been a string of statements to that effect by Fed Governors and Presidents. And now Fed Vice Chairman Fischer and Chair Janet Yellen have added their voices to the chorus.
Most notable has been the change of heart by Governor Lael Brainard. She was a prominent dove prior to the election. Now she has turned hawk, in what may be one of the greatest conversions since that of St. Paul on the road to Damascus.
If the Fed does not raise rates at the March FOMC meeting, it will surprise financial markets. And it would damage the Fed's remaining credibility. So, we can assume a March rate hike is baked in. The interesting question is how many increases in the Fed's administered interest rates will there be this year. Fed officials are signaling two more, for a total of three in 2017. For reasons I will explain, two more rate increases may not be enough and yet may be too many.
Fed officials reason in terms of the so-called dual mandate of keeping inflation at 2 percent and achieving "full employment." Inflation, which has long been running below 2 percent, is now approaching that rate. And Fed officials have decided that an unemployment rate of 4.8 percent signals the economy is at or close to full employment. For purposes of this piece, I will accept both judgments. So, the dual mandate certainly calls for one rate hike, and might justify two or three.
I believe there is another, underlying justification for at least three rate increases. That is a desire to get back to "normal" interest rates and "normal" monetary policy. "Normal" is a term of art, but certainly does not sanction interest rates in the zero-to-one-percent range. So the next rate increase is only a first step to normality.
I would also argue that a Fed balance sheet of $4.0+ trillion is not normal. But shrinking the balance sheet remains too big a dose of normality for now for most Fed officials. Nonetheless, a return to normal interest rates justifies three increases in the Fed's short-term interest rates.
There are other, largely unstated reasons for beginning a program of rate increases that very well might not be limited to three. First, Fed officials know that financial firms generally are being squeezed by ultra-low interest rates.
The margins between what they pay for funds and what they can earn deploying funds (e.g., making loans) have been squeezed. Bank stock prices have rallied not just on the prospects of financial deregulation in the Trump administration, but also in anticipation of interest-rate increases.
A much-anticipated estimate of how many people would have health insurance coverage under the top Republican proposal to repeal and replace Obamacare could be revealed as early as Monday.
The Congressional Budget Office's analysis also will include an estimate of the cost to the federal budget of the GOP's proposal, which is currently making its way through the House of Representatives.
The nonpartisan CBO is expected to project both a sharp drop in the number of insured people, as well as an increase of hundreds of billions of dollars to the federal budget deficit over the next decade.
Both forecasts by the CBO are certain to be used by a number of GOP lawmakers as ammunition to defeat the controversial bill, which they have strongly criticized despite it being touted by leaders of their own party.
The estimates also will be heavily cited by Democrats who oppose not just this particular GOP replacement plan, but any legislation that would gut and replace Obamacare.
The CBO's analysis likely will be an uncomfortable reminder to Republican leaders, including President Donald Trump, about the potential political perils of getting rid of Obamacare.
The ACA has been credited with driving down the nation's uninsured rate to record low levels, from 18 percent of Americans in 2013 to 10.6 percent in the last quarter of 2016.
Recent estimates about the number of people who would lose coverage under the Republican plan reflect the effect of the bill's revocation of the Obamacare requirement that most Americans have some form of health coverage or pay a fine, as well as the rollback of funding for the expansion of Medicaid starting in 2020.
The estimated increase to the deficit reflects the bill's revocation of Obamacare-related taxes.
The Brookings Institution last week estimated that the bill would increase the number of uninsured Americans by more than 15 million. And the Joint Committee on Taxation estimated it would cost the federal government an additional $600 billion over a decade.
In anticipation of the CBO's estimates, backers of the bill sought to delegitimize the office's analysis.
That critique of the CBO conflicts with the fact that members of Congress of both parties for the past four decades have depended on the office to provide analyses of budgetary and economic issues.
"If you're looking to the CBO for accuracy, you're looking in the wrong place," White House press secretary Sean Spicer said last week.
Mick Mulvaney, director of the White House Office of Management and Budget, said, "If the CBO was right about Obamacare to begin with, there'd be 8 million more people on Obamacare today than there actually are."
"Sometimes we ask them to do stuff they're not capable of doing, and estimating the impact of a bill of this size probably isn't the best use of their time," Mulvaney said.
The bill being analyzed by the CBO was introduced last week by Republican leaders in the House of Representatives and passed by two committees. The bill is now headed to review by the House Budget Committee this week.
The bill, dubbed the American Health Care Act, is being supported by House Speaker Paul Ryan, R-Wis., and other key members of the House, in addition to Trump.
Trump, Ryan and the other leaders in the past week have repeatedly described Obamacare as a failing program that has led to skyrocketing insurance premiums, and millions of people being unable to use their coverage because of unaffordable deductibles.
Trump tweeted new criticism of Obamacare on Monday.

While many Republicans agreed with Trump's broad critique of the Affordable Care Act, the Republican bill has been greeted by criticism from many GOP conservatives, in addition to liberal supporters of Obamacare.
The conservative case against the bill is that it does not go far enough in repealing the ACA because it would continue to issue subsidies, albeit in reduced amounts, to people to help them buy individual health insurance plans. Conservatives also do not want to delay the rollback of Medicaid funding until 2020.
But in the Senate, several GOP senators have said they will not support a replacement bill that does not protect coverage gains made by Medicaid under Obamacare. Other Republican senators object to defunding of Planned Parenthood, as the GOP bill would do.
Tom Price, secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services, said on NBC's "Meet the Press" on Sunday that, "There are a lot of people that are worse off right now when they're paying for health care and they aren't getting the care that they need."
"Again, the premiums are up and deductibles are up. If you're an individual out there making $50,000, $60,000 and your deductible is eight, 10, 12 thousand bucks you may have that insurance card, but you don't have coverage," Price said.
"And I hear from my former colleagues all the time about patients who come into their office and they recommend something for them, and they're not able to get it because the deductible is so high."
Price also said he did not expect that the Republican plan would result in higher costs of insurance, and that he does expect an increase in the number of people with health insurance.
"I firmly believe that nobody will be worse off financially," he said. "There's coverage that's going to go up."
When asked about the Brookings Institution estimate that more than 15 million people would become uninsured as a result of the GOP plan, Price said, "I'll tell you that the plan that we've laid out here will not leave that number of individuals uncovered."
"In fact I believe, again that we'll have more individuals covered," Price said.
Obamacare led to unprecedented drops in the nation's uninsured rates through a combination of measures.
The first measure to take effect was the provision that allows people under the age of 26 to be covered by their parents' health plans.
The ACA's so-called individual mandate requires most people to have health coverage of some kind — such as through a job, an individual insurance plan, Medicare, Medicaid, or military insurance — or pay a tax penalty. For the 2016 tax year, that penalty is the higher of $695 or 2.5 percent of household income.
Obamacare also authorized the creation of government-run insurance marketplaces, which sell individual plans offered by private insurance companies. Customers of those marketplaces, also known as exchanges, can get federal subsidies that lower the cost of their monthly premiums if they have low and moderate incomes. Lower-income customers can get additional subsidies for their out-of-pocket health expenses.
Medicaid expansion has been credited with having the largest impact on reducing the number of uninsured people.
More than 10 million Americans are estimated to have gained coverage through the ACA provision that allows states to loosen eligibility requirements for their Medicaid programs so that nearly all poor adults can sign up for them. Thirty-one states, along with the District of Columbia, have expanded their Medicaid programs.
In the wake of a solid jobs report, investors increasingly are expecting a green light for a Federal Reserve interest rate increase at its March meeting.
The probability of a hike next week rose to 93 percent from 90.8 percent shortly before the nonfarm payments report, according to the CME Group's FedWatch tool. Just a day earlier, the implied odds of a hike stood at 88.6 percent.
Nonfarm payrolls jumped 235,000 in February, beating estimates of 190,000. The key average hourly earnings number increased 0.2 percent, falling short of the midpoint of expectations for an uptick of 0.3 percent.
"The wage pressure was the key in today's data, and it has gained most significant attention among other readings," said Naeem Aslam, chief market analyst at ThinkMarkets UK. "The wage number released today was not really a blowout number, but still a very decent one. Only if the number was extremely vile, then the Fed was going to stop their interest rate hike, but now it looks like that we are going to see a rate hike next week."
President Donald Trump can't really take credit for the strengthening labor market yet because it's too early in his administration, two think-tank policy wonks told CNBC.
The government on Friday released a better-than-expected February read on job growth — saying the U.S. economy created 235,000 nonfarm payrolls last month. The unemployment rate dipped to 4.7 percent.
"I am not attributing this to the new administration since it's the first month of his presidency," said Neera Tanden, who served in the Barack Obama and Bill Clinton White Houses.
"We haven't seen any fundamental policies or anything really pass Congress yet," the CEO of the Center for American Progress contended on "Squawk Box."
Jeffrey Miron, director of economic studies at the libertarian Cato Institute, said it's possible that expectations for pro-growth policies under Trump might helped a bit.
But that didn't stop Trump from taking a victory lap, retweeting the lead of the Drudge Report, which references the president's Make America Great Again campaign slogan.

"I would be a little skeptical that there's a lot of Trump bump," Miron said. "There's plausibility a little bit in these numbers, but which are basically a continuation of what we've been seeing."
Tanden also said the strong February job growth was "a continuation of the economy we had for a while now."
Since he campaigned on bringing higher wages, Trump will be judged on how much more Americans see in their paychecks, Tanden added.
Average hourly earnings in February increased by a healthy 2.8 percent on an annualized basis.
Nonfarm payrolls increased by 235,000 in February and the unemployment rate was 4.7 percent in the first full month of President Donald Trump's term, the Bureau of Labor Statistics reported Friday.
Average hourly earnings increased by a healthy 2.8 percent on an annualized basis.
Construction led the way, growing by 58,000, the most in almost a decade, while manufacturing also posted strong gains with 28,000 new jobs.
Economists surveyed by Reuters had expected the economy to add 190,000 jobs and the unemployment rate to tick down to 4.7 percent. That contrasts with the upwardly revised January numbers of 238,000 new positions and an unemployment rate of 4.8 percent.
President Donald Trump promised in a meeting with community bankers on Thursday to strip away some Dodd-Frank financial regulations and ensure they can continue giving small businesses access to capital.
Trump, joined by National Economic Council Director Gary Cohn and Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin, said community banks play a "vital role" in the U.S. economy.
"Nearly half of all private-sector workers are employed by small businesses. We must ensure access to capital to small businesses and for small businesses to grow. Community banks are the backbone of small business in America," Trump said at the beginning of the meeting.
Representing the industry were chief executives of nine community banks with assets of around $1 billion or less and the heads of the American Bankers Association and the Independent Community Bankers of America (ICBA).
Bankers who attended the 45-minute meeting said they discussed the role community banks play in rural areas and provided real-world examples about the difficulties smaller banking institutions face.
The bankers emphasized the need for "tailoring regulations to fit the size and complexity of banks," said Chesapeake Financial Shares Inc Vice Chairman Jeffrey Szyperski, one of the bankers in the meeting.
Investors are flipping houses like it's 2006 again.
This time it's not easy mortgages fueling the movement but fast-rising prices, hungry buyers, record profits and a panoply of home-flipping reality TV shows that make it look fun and easy.
Some flippers are turning historic homes into modern, hybrid treasures, but others are slapping cosmetic fixes on truly troubled properties, ignoring mechanical and structural issues. For more unsuspecting buyers, that move-in-ready dream home can quickly flip into a nightmare. Cameron McGuire and his wife thought they'd be living the dream. The downsizing baby boomers moved out of their large suburban home three years ago and purchased a three-bedroom, three-bathroom condo in a historic Washington, D.C., row house. The home had been fully renovated and enlarged by a local developer-flipper. "And that was actually part of the appeal — to have something that was completely finished that from top to bottom had been redone. All new electric. All new everything in it. High-end appliances. All of those things were part of the appeal for us," McGuire said. For the first six months, everything was fine, but then they got a call from a D.C. housing inspector, who was investigating claims against the developer by other buyers. The inspector walked through the McGuire's home, and it was as if demons suddenly seeped out of the walls. "They gave us list after list after list of things that were either not permitted or violations or weren't zoned correctly here in the property," said McGuire, pointing all around him. "Receptacles are not permitted the way that they're installed here. The canned lighting up in the ceiling is not permitted the way that it is supposed to be in here. Even looking at them I still can't even tell they're out of compliance. It was an unending list of things." Worst of all, the developer never filed permits for the back addition, which houses two bedrooms and two bathrooms. The McGuires were shocked to learn that the city has the legal right to make them tear off the back of the house.
The number of Americans filing for unemployment benefits last week rebounded from a near 44-year low, but continued to point to a tightening labor market.
Initial claims for state unemployment benefits increased 20,000 to a seasonally adjusted 243,000 for the week ended March 4, the Labor Department said on Thursday. Claims for the prior week were unrevised at 223,000, the lowest level since March 1973.
It was the 105th straight week that claims remained below 300,000, a threshold associated with a healthy labor market.
That is the longest stretch since 1970, when the labor market was much smaller.
The labor market is at or close to full employment, with employers increasingly reporting difficulties finding qualified workers for open job positions. Labor market tightness together with firming inflation could allow the Federal Reserve to raise interest rates as early as next week.
Economists polled by Reuters had forecast new claims for unemployment benefits rising to 235,000 in the latest week.

U.S. import rose more than expected last month, the Labor Department said Thursday.
Imports rose 0.2 percent in February, above the expected gain of 0.1 percent,  after climbing 0.4 percent a month earlier.
Export prices, meanwhile, rose 0.3 percent.
Get the market reaction here.
Those looking for a rapid uptick in the U.S. economy probably will have to tone down their expectations, at least for now.
In the near term, growth projections, at least by the top-line measurement of gross domestic product, are looking a whole lot more tepid than they did a few months ago.
GDP, which measures the sum of goods and services in the economy, is likely to have increased just 1.2 percent in the first quarter, according to the Atlanta Fed's closely watched GDPNow model. That's below the 1.5 percent projected by CNBC's Rapid Update forecast.
While much of the market has been focused on increased growth expectations under the Trump administration, GDP numbers have been sinking rapidly, in a precipitous though somewhat stealthy manner.
As recently as Feb. 3, the Atlanta Fed was projecting 2.7 percent growth for the first three months of 2017. But a steady flow of disappointing numbers, from production to construction spending to trade, has pulled down the estimate.
Those numbers have stood in stark contrast to sentiment surveys from businesses, investors and consumers, as well as purchasing managers and others at the corporate forefront. That in turn has produced some severe head-scratching from market professionals.
If there were any doubts about whether the Federal Reserve would be hiking interest rates this month, Wednesday's blockbuster jobs report almost completely removed them.
A report showing that private companies added 298,000 jobs in February pushed market-implied probability of a Fed move to 92 percent, according to the CME's FedWatch tracker that measures the futures market.
Traders had assigned an 82 percent chance of a move Tuesday but pushed it higher after the report from ADP and Moody's Analytics.
A Fed hike would bring its target range for overnight rates to 0.75 percent to 1 percent. Central bank officials have indicated that three increases are likely this year, though positive economic data and other indicators are spurring talk of more aggressive moves.
In recent speeches, Yellen and others have commented on the importance of fiscal policy. President Donald Trump has promised aggressiveness in that regard, with tax cuts, regulatory rollbacks and infrastructure spending near the top of his priorities list.
"Going forward it just depends on the deliverables from the administration and if that confidence can be maintained," said Craig Bishop, lead fixed income strategist at RBC Wealth Management. "Further increases in the monthly numbers like this could drive the Fed to be even more aggressive over the course of the year."
Traders are pricing in July as the next most likely month for a hike, with December now carrying a 61 percent chance for a third move.
The market has been expecting the Fed to move at the two-day meeting that concludes next Wednesday as the central bank's targets for employment and inflation come within closer reach. Most economists believe the economy is near full employment, while inflation data either have been ahead of or just shy of the Fed's 2 percent target.
"As for the Fed, one of their biggest fears was waiting too long to hike rates which would then force them to quicken the pace in order to play catch up," Peter Boockvar, chief market analyst at the Lindsey Group, said in a note. "Unfortunately their biggest fear is now coming to life."
A speech Friday, Fed Chair Janet Yellen seemed to solidify that the Fed would move in March, but the market was waiting for jobs data this week to confirm.
The ADP numbers come ahead of Friday's key nonfarm payrolls report, considered the official count of job creation in the public and private sectors. Expectations are for the report to show a gain of 185,000 from January's 227,000, according to FactSet.
However, Wednesday's report could cause those numbers to get ratcheted higher.

Companies added jobs at a blistering pace in February, with a notable shift away from the service-sector positions that have dominated hiring for years, according to a report Wednesday.
Employment in the private sector surged by 298,000 for the month, with goods producers adding 106,000, ADP and Moody's Analytics said. Construction jobs swelled by 66,000 and manufacturing added 32,000.
The total shattered market expectations of 190,000, according to economists surveyed by ADP. The blockbuster report also solidified market expectations for the Fed to hike interest rates next week. Probability for an increase jumped to 91 percent after the release, according to the CME.
The report encompassed the first full month under President Donald Trump, who has pledged to rebuild the nation's aging infrastructure system.
U.S. wholesale inventories fell slightly more than previously estimated in January, but inventory investment still was likely to contribute to economic growth in the first quarter.
The Commerce Department said on Wednesday wholesale inventories decreased 0.2 percent, the biggest drop since February 2016, after jumping 1.0 percent in December.
The department reported last month that wholesale inventories edged down 0.1 percent in January.
The component of wholesale inventories that goes into the calculation of gross domestic product - wholesale stocks excluding autos - rose 0.2 percent in January.
Inventory investment added one percentage point to the economy's 1.9 percent annualized growth rate in the fourth quarter. That was the second straight quarterly contribution to GDP growth after a drag that lasted more than a year.
The Atlanta Federal Reserve is forecasting GDP increasing at a 1.3 percent rate in the first quarter.
Sales at wholesalers slipped 0.1 percent in January after jumping 2.4 percent in December.
At January's sales pace it would take wholesalers 1.29 months to clear shelves, unchanged from December. The ratio has declined from 1.37 months in January of last year, which was the highest since March 2009.
Security is holidaymakers' main consideration when choosing a destination, a research report released on Wednesday by Bournemouth University and travel search site Travelzoo said.
"Since Tunisia happened, safety and security has moved higher and higher up the agenda," Travelzoo's European President Richard Singer told Reuters, adding that security was now travelers' number one concern.
A British coroner last week criticized the security arrangements of a Tunisian hotel where 38 tourists were killed by a militant in 2015.
The study said it had found that "97 percent of all respondents have personal safety at the forefront of their minds when choosing a holiday destination, and that the majority feel significantly more concerned now than they did in 2014."
"Two years ago, the most important things to do with choosing a holiday probably revolved around price or sunshine. But now, it's just safety and security," Singer said, adding that travel advice needed to be easier to understand.
Some of the families of victims of the Tunisia attack said that they would have changed their plans if they had been aware of warnings about travel to Tunisia.
Wednesday's report recommended a "pass/fail" security accreditation for hotels and landmarks, although Singer said its exact form was up to the industry to decide.
Travelzoo's survey of 6,000 consumers in China, the United States, Germany, Britain, France, Russia, India and South Africa, is due to be presented at a travel conference in Berlin.
The productivity of American workers grew at a slower pace in fourth quarter and last year recorded the smallest annual gain in five years.
The Labor Department says productivity grew at a 1.3 percent annual pace from October through December, down from 3.3 percent in the third quarter. For 2016, productivity eked out a 0.2 percent increase, smallest since a 0.1 percent gain in 2011.
Gains in productivity have slowed in recent years for reasons economists are struggling to understand.
Productivity measures output per hour worked. Increases are crucial for economic prosperity. When their workers are more productive, employers can afford to pay them more. And productivity gains, along with growth in the number of people working, determine how fast the economy grows.
Employers in the United States hired fewer people in February, but year-over-year hiring remained strong, according to the LinkedIn Workforce Report, a monthly analysis of employment trends.
The report stated that though overall hiring was down in most industries in February from January, employers hired 1.4 percent more workers than in February 2016. January and February 2017 were among the strongest consecutive months for hiring since summer 2015, according to LinkedIn.
LinkedIn draws data from its 133 million user profiles, 20,000 company profiles, 3 million monthly job postings, and 50,000 skills workers can add to their profiles to compile this report.
"The question is how much of this is politically motivated," LinkedIn Executive Editor Dan Roth said Wednesday on CNBC's "Squawk Box." "Are our employers feeling like they understand what's going on, that they can start hiring again?"
"It's unclear exactly what's going on, but it matches up against the political calendar," he added.

The oil and gas industry "continued to rebound in February," with seasonally adjusted hiring up over 50 percent since June, "the low point of the industry's recession," the report said.
In addition, workers moved to Atlanta, Dallas and Houston from Chicago and New York, and all of those cities lost employees to Seattle, Portland, Oregon, and Denver, which continued to welcome workers in droves, according to LinkedIn.
The LinkedIn report also tracks skill gaps in the top 10 U.S. cities, which it defines as "a mismatch between the skills employers need — demand — and the skills workers have — supply."
The report showed San Francisco, Houston and Washington as having the biggest skill gaps due to a lack of workers with service industry experience. Most in need nationwide are workers with health-care management and teaching skills.
"The places where there are the biggest skills gaps are the places that are most expensive," Roth said, adding that most of the much-needed jobs are not high-paying, raising an issue of incentive.
"If you live in a city where the skills are in abundance, you should really think about going to one of these cities where they are in high demand," Roth said. "The problem is these are also really expensive cities."
With Republicans controlling the White House and Capitol Hill, U.S. economic growth could get a boost into the 3 percent range, hedge fund billionaire David Tepper told CNBC on Wednesday.
"I think we can get into the 3s," Tepper said on "Squawk Box." "I don't want to say no doubt about it, but I think there's a high probability we'll be in the 3s."
The economy expanded at an annual rate of 1.9 percent in the fourth quarter of 2016, according to the government's second estimate for the period.
If that number were to hold in the final revision out later this month, gross domestic product for all 2016 would only be up 1.6 percent, the worst performance since 2011.
GDP grew 2.6 percent in 2015.
"By the way," Tepper said about getting to the 3 percent range, "all the probabilities stacked, you have to bet against these Republicans screwing it up. They should be able to get it."
Tepper, who was sharply critical of Donald Trump during the presidential campaign, did say he would be happy if the president were to tighten things up and not tweet as much.
But having a GOP president and Republican majorities in the House and Senate means the end of business-zapping regulations, he argued.
"People say people are holding back because of uncertainty. Bull----," said Tepper, founder and president of Appaloosa Management, which has $17 billion in assets under management.
"From a business standpoint, not one more regulation is happening, and potentially you have tax cuts coming your way," he added.
In the absence of some unforeseen and unlikely upset in Washington, there's nothing to bother business leaders until inflation picks up, Tepper said.
"I know people don't think there's going to be inflation," he said, "because they remember the last 10 years."
But he warned the Federal Reserve needs to have a balance of interest rate hikes to keep the economy from overheating.
Wall Street widely expects Fed policymakers to increase rates at next week's meeting after they moved the cost of borrowing higher in December for just the second time in a decade
Central bankers in December hinted at three more rate hikes in 2017.
As interest rates surged last week and home prices continue to balloon at a breakneck pace, borrowers are wasting no time applying for home loans — they are hoping to get in before affordability gets even worse.
Homebuyers are also increasingly choosing adjustable-rate mortgages, hoping to save a few more dollars on monthly payments.
Total mortgage application volume rose a seasonally adjusted 3.3 percent last week from the previous week, according to the Mortgage Bankers Association. Volume remains 18 percent lower compared to the same week one year ago.
The weaker volume primarily stems from significantly fewer applications to refinance from a year ago, when interest rates were lower. Refinance volume is off 34 percent annually, but more borrowers rushed in last week, likely fearing rates would move even higher. Refinance volume was up 5 percent for the week, seasonally adjusted.
"Mortgage rates increased last week as remarks by several key Federal Reserve officials strongly signaled a March rate increase," said Joel Kan, an MBA economist. "This was further supported by a few solid economic data releases, including GDP, inflation and manufacturing gauges."
The average contract interest rate for 30-year fixed-rate mortgages with conforming loan balances of $424,100 or less increased to 4.36 percent from 4.30 percent, with points increasing to 0.44 from 0.38, including the origination fee, for 80 percent loan-to-value ratio loans.
Although mortgage rates do not directly follow the federal funds rate, a Fed rate hike could still make mortgages more expensive. After rising last week, mortgage rates have barely moved this week, which could be a sign of apprehension.
"Combine the past few days of limited movement with the bigger-picture post-election range, and there's a sense that we're waiting for a verdict about where we go next," wrote Matthew Graham, chief operating officer of Mortgage News Daily. "[That] makes the next six business days scary. It's ultimately next Wednesday that has the biggest potential to push rates higher or lower, but there's plenty of room for volatility between now and then."
Next Wednesday is when the Fed announces its decision on interest rates, and an increase is expected.
Mortgage applications to purchase a home, which are less sensitive to weekly rate moves, inched 2 percent higher for the week and are about 4 percent higher than a year ago. Homebuyer demand remains quite high, but there is still a shortage of affordable listings. Because much of the demand this spring is among young first-time buyers, the shortage is even more acute.
As buyers struggle to afford the homes they want, more are now turning to adjustable-rate loans, which offer lower interest rates. The ARM share of mortgage applications last week reached its highest level since 2014. The average loan size for purchase applications also hit a survey high of $313,000, as entry-level buyers are factoring less into sales and move-up buyers are dominating the spring market.
Japan's trade minister Hiroshige Seko and his U.S. counterpart Wilbur Ross will likely meet on March 16 in Washington, Jiji news agency reported on Wednesday.
Seko and U.S. Commerce Secretary Ross agreed by phone this week to meet as soon as possible to prepare for a planned bilateral economic dialogue, which is to be led be U.S. Vice President Mike Pence and Finance Minister Taro Aso, who also serves as deputy prime minister.
Seko said on Tuesday he wanted to exchange candid views with Ross on energy, trade, investment, cyber and space.
The governments of both nations are finalizing the arrangement of the meeting, Jiji reported.
The economic dialogue between the two nations will kick off in April, when Pence visits Japan.
President Donald Trump plans to meet with a group of infrastructure business leaders at the White House on Wednesday, a person briefed on the meeting said.
During his presidential campaign, Trump said he would push for a $1 trillion infrastructure program to rebuilpolitics
d roads, bridges, airports and other public works projects.
The lunch meeting is set to include real estate, management consulting, private equity and other business leaders, along with at least one environmental group, a person briefed on the matter said.
Last month, Trump touted the plan in an address to Congress.
"The time has come for a new program of national rebuilding," Trump said.
"To launch our national rebuilding, I will be asking Congress to approve legislation that produces a $1 trillion investment in infrastructure of the United States — financed through both public and private capital — creating millions of new jobs."
The American Society of Civil Engineers has graded U.S. infrastructure at D+ and estimated the country needs to invest $3.6 trillion by 2020.
U.S. Transportation Secretary Elaine Chao told Fox News last month that the needs for infrastructure are so great the federal government cannot shoulder all the costs.
"Public private partnerships are a very important part of a new way of financing our roads and bridges that are in disrepair and our very dangerous," Chao said.
In January, Trump signed an executive order aimed at expediting environmental reviews and approvals for all infrastructure projects, especially high priority projects "such as improving the U.S. electric grid and telecommunications systems and repairing and upgrading critical port facilities, airports, pipelines, bridges, and highways."
Immigration raids are starting to have an impact on small businesses in the West, with some merchants suggesting a climate of fear is keeping customers away.
"We're seeing more cases of people reluctant to patronize the stores they were going to," said Mark Arabo, owner of San Diego's Lulu's International Market and former president of the Neighborhood Market Association, a business group of about 2,000 small stores in California, Arizona and Nevada. "It's fear for ICE and it's fear for the government."
The U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency has held several enforcement actions in Southern California that have generated headlines, including the arrest last week of a Mexican immigrant dropping his teenage daughters off at school.
Lori Haley, an ICE spokeswoman, said in a written response Monday that agents and special officers have made "criminal and administrative arrests every day in the course of carrying out their mission to uphold public safety." She added, "Our arrests are targeted — we don't engage in indiscriminate sweeps or raids."
Even so, worries persist among immigrants about enforcement actions, and some businesses have been forced to lay off employees to cope with the falloff in business.
"Some are cutting across the board 20 to 30 percent," said Arabo. "It's not a good thing for the economy. It's not a good thing for jobs."
Arabo said the drop in business was noticed shortly after the inauguration of President Donald Trump, who has cracked down on immigration.
CNBC interviewed several other business owners over the phone for this story but they didn't want to be identified out of fear of bringing unwanted attention to their businesses.
Pedro Gomez, an undocumented worker at a convenience store in East L.A., said through a translator that there's been a "growing concern" that immigration raids may target his heavily immigrant community. "There's talk about the potential [for] raids reaching this area."
Also, Gomez said fear is being driven by concerns that immigrants could be targeted by ICE if they have any misdemeanor convictions on their record.
"People who might have convictions for small offenses or minor things in court are concerned about being singled out and being deported," Gomez said.
To protect immigrants, some cities have moved to decriminalize minor offenses.
Last month, the Los Angeles City Council and Mayor Eric Garcetti agreed to remove criminal penalties for street vendors operating without a permit.
"Decriminalizing street vending is a humane, critical first step toward protecting hard-working Angelenos who are trying to make an honest living and should not have to worry about a criminal record," Garcetti said in a statement.
However, sidewalk food vending without permits is still unlawful in unincorporated parts of L.A. County, which makes up more than 65 percent of county territory.
Trump signed an executive order on Jan. 25 directing the Department of Homeland Security to hire 10,000 additional immigration officers. His order also gives delegated authority for immigration enforcement to state and local law enforcement, although California has resisted such efforts.
Trump has threatened to withhold federal funds from California, where there's a currently a "sanctuary state" bill — Senate Bill 54 — pending in the California legislature. The state measure would prohibit state or local law enforcement agencies or school police from using resources to investigate, detain or arrest people for immigration purposes. The bill has already passed the Senate Public Safety committee, although two Republican members opposed it.
Overall, California has an estimated 2.3 million undocumented immigrants, with just under three-quarters coming from Mexico, according to the latest data from Pew Research Center. Its latest research found more than 80 percent of the unauthorized immigrants in Arizona were from Mexico.
Sacramento County Sheriff Scott Jones on Monday criticized the measure during a press conference saying it would allow "dangerous, violent career criminals to slip through the cracks and be released back into our communities."
According to Arabo, he's heard cases of some merchants seeing a sales decline of as much as 20 percent.
The financial impacts are being felt in Arizona, too.
"In Arizona, the government and politics are much different," Arabo said. "Arizona has an issue of government profiling or deporting."
The state's reputation for immigration enforcement actions at the local level stem from the days when Republican Joe Arpaio was Maricopa County sheriff and he held sweeps on businesses. Arpaio was voted out of office and replaced by a sheriff who has taken a lower profile on immigration.
The U.S. economy cannot grow faster without its budget deficit rising, either through increased spending or lower taxes, according to one investment strategist. But getting there won't be politically easy.
The "fiscal deficit has to widen. If it doesn't widen, growth will slow down in the second half,"  Krishna Memani, chief investment officer at OppenheimerFunds, told about 200 clients last Thursday at the firm's outlook event.
"Unfortunately, the people that the administration relies on to get those things passed are not enamored with fiscal spending," he said.
Annual projected federal budget deficit (2016-2020)

Source: OppenheimerFunds, Congressional Budget Office and Tax Policy Center as of 1/31/2017.
Last Tuesday, a report showed U.S. gross domestic product grew 1.6 percent in 2016, the slowest since 2011.
President Donald Trump has said the U.S. economy will grow at least 4 percent a year under his policies, and Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin expects 3 percent growth. The administration also claims it can achieve that growth without boosting the U.S. budget deficit, because Washington will supposedly cut spending enough to offset reduced tax revenue.
Budget Director Mick Mulvaney said in February that the administration aims to offset a $54 billion increase in defense spending with reduced domestic spending. Trump's budget is expected next week.
The "Trump rally" has little to do with the president and more with improving economic conditions, strategist Bob Doll told CNBC on Tuesday.
"I think the stock market's up primarily because the economy is doing a whole lot better," Nuveen Asset Management's chief equity strategist told "Squawk Box."
"Last week, [President Donald] Trump speaks Tuesday night, market's up 300 [basis points] on Wednesday. And the Thursday headlines say, 'Trump rallies the market.' No, no, no, no — the global PMI was at least 200 of those 300 points, in my view," Doll said.
The PMI, or Purchasing Managers' Index, gauges the economic well being of the manufacturing industry.
"The economy needs to remain good to continue this," Doll said. "Trump's policies could be icing on the cake."
But as the market runs higher, things like a Federal Reserve interest rate hike could be obstacles to the rally's longevity, Doll said.
"The Fed's turning neutral and then negative for the stock market," Doll said. "I think it means that the easy gains are in the rearview mirror."
The hike is widely expected to be announced at the Fed's March 15 meeting. The central bank has indicated it will issue two to three rate increases this year.
"There are other things like earnings pushing the market higher, but we no longer have the Fed in our court in my view," the strategist said.
For now, Doll said he feels comfortable being invested in bank stocks, and that Trump's policies may be the "icing" they need.
"Don't give up on the financials. They're up a bunch," he said. "Better economy, higher interest rates, less regulation — nobody benefits more than the financials from that."
And the benefits will likely be across the board, though Doll said his team prefers the big banks as opposed to the increasingly popular regionals.
"When we're really bullish, Bank [of] America and Citi. When we're a little more cautious, JPMorgan and Wells [Fargo]," the strategist said.
The U.S. trade deficit jumped in January to the highest level in nearly five years as a flood of mobile phones and other consumer products widened America's trade gap with China. The figure underscores the challenges facing President Donald Trump in fulfilling a campaign pledge to reduce America's trade deficits.
The Commerce Department says the deficit in January rose 9.6 percent to $48.5 billion, up from a December deficit of $44.3 billion. It was the largest monthly gap since a deficit of $50.2 billion in March 2012.
U.S. exports edged up a slight 0.6 percent to $192.1 billion, helped by stronger auto sales. But the export gain was swamped by a 2.3 percent surge in imports, led by mobile phones, oil and foreign-made cars.
Small businesses across the country saw optimism and job growth continue to rise in February, hitting highs for a third month in a row as election hopes began to turn into jobs, Paychex president and CEO Marty Mucci said Tuesday.
"I think we saw a lot of optimism but less job growth the first month or so since the election," Mucci told CNBC's "Squawk Box." "Now it's starting to translate into actual job growth."
Mucci attributed the growth to President Donald Trump's pro-business agenda, which the president says will include tax reform. The Paychex CEO also nodded to the new version of the Affordable Care Act Trump revealed Monday as being positive for business.
Released on Tuesday, the Paychex report showed the Paychex/IHS Small Business Jobs Index rising to 100.78, up 0.16 percent from January and up 0.39 percent for the quarter, which started in December.
The report said that the 100.78 index number signals positive employment growth that is slightly speedier than last year's pace. The rate of growth has increased each month since December.
The East South Central region of the country remained the lead region for small business growth, with its February index at 103.41, growing at a year-over-year rate of 1.83 percent. Tennessee was once again the top-ranked state for growth.
"You see Nashville's got good high-tech jobs coming in there," Mucci said, adding that "e-commerce is now 15 percent of sales, and FedEx being based there, you're seeing a lot of shipping really pick up in the market, as well."
FedEx is headquartered in Memphis, Tennessee.
Neighboring West South Central region saw the biggest year-over-year decline, decreasing 1.51 percent from February 2016.
The South Atlantic region saw its strongest one-month rise in over four years, as Atlanta topped the metropolitan employment charts for the third month in a row.
The financial activities industry saw a 0.53 percent jump in February, the best one-month gain among the various sectors. Construction was the only industry to decline last month, despite being one of the South's top industries.
Exxon Mobil, the world's largest publicly traded oil producer, said on Monday it would invest $20 billion through 2022 to expand its chemical and oil refining plants on the U.S. Gulf Coast.
The investments at 11 sites should create 35,000 temporary construction jobs and 12,000 permanent jobs, Chief Executive Darren Woods said in a speech at CERAWeek, the world's largest gathering of energy executives.
Some of the expansions began in 2013, but the scope of the project is now growing and the timeline extended, Exxon said.
The Federal Reserve has no excuse to put off hiking interest rates in March, CNBC's Jim Cramer said on Thursday.
"The rest of the economy is strong enough to take it," Cramer said on "Squawk on the Street."
Markets have been looking at the probability that the Federal Open Market Committee will approve a rate increase at its March 14-15 meeting.
Expectations zoomed to 69 percent on Wednesday after hawkish statements from several prominent Fed officials and strong economic data.
Fed Governor Lael Brainard — a known dove in the central bank's monetary policy committee — said Wednesday evening the Fed could raise rates "soon," citing an improved global economy.
The Fed is expected to implement at least three rate hikes this year.
U.S. markets hit all-time highs Wednesday. The Dow advanced about 300 points to close above 21,000 for the first time. The S&P 500 and the Nasdaq both climbed more than 1 percent.
—CNBC's Fred Imbert contributed to this report.
The more Speaker Paul Ryan tries to will the House border adjustment tax into existence as part of corporate tax reform, the more Senate Republicans push back. Ryan sees border adjustment, which taxes imports 20 percent while exempting exports, as the linchpin of his plan for corporate tax reform. The $1 trillion it would raise over 10 years would help to partially finance a cut in the top corporate rate from the current 35 percent to 20 percent, allowing the House to avoid ballooning the budget deficit. House GOP leaders thought they heard an endorsement of their idea in President Donald Trump's speech to Congress on Tuesday night. Later they seized on reports that a group of conservatives was told at the White House that the administration backs the House plan. Not so fast, Senate Republicans say. For one thing, sources familiar with the matter say Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin has told Senate Banking Committee Republicans that he opposes the border adjustment tax.
A Treasury spokesman said Thursday there are "concerns surrounding the proposal" but it has "interesting aspects," adding that Mnuchin is "confident there will be a unified plan between the administration and leadership. The administration will continue to engage CEOs, small business leaders, manufacturers, retailers, and other stakeholders for their input on these issues," the department said.
To make matters more complicated, Trump advisor Steve Bannon has aligned himself with Ryan on the tax, according to reports.
The number of Americans filing for unemployment benefits fell to near a 44-year-low last week, pointing to further tightening in the labor market even as economic growth appears to have remained moderate in the first quarter.
Initial claims for state unemployment benefits dropped 19,000 to a seasonally adjusted 223,000 for the week ended Feb. 25, the lowest level since March 1973, the Labor Department said on Thursday. Data for the prior week was revised to show 2,000 fewer applications received than previously reported.
It was the 104th straight week that claims remained below 300,000, a threshold associated with a healthy labor market.
That is the longest stretch since 1970, when the labor market was much smaller. The labor market is at or close to full employment, with the unemployment rate at 4.8 percent.
Labor market tightness, combined with rising inflation, could encourage the Federal Reserve to raise interest rates at its March 14-15 policy meeting.
A survey from the U.S. central bank on Wednesday showed the labor market remained tight in early 2017, with some of the Fed's districts reporting "widening" labor shortages.
Economists polled by Reuters had forecast new claims for unemployment benefits dipping to 243,000 in the latest week.
A Labor Department analyst said there were no special factors influencing last week's claims data. Only claims for Oklahoma were estimated.
President Donald Trump and congressional Republicans are taking advantage of the party's control of the federal government to reshape the way U.S. companies are taxed. But one plan could incur the wrath of the global trading community and cost the U.S. hundreds of billions every year.
The tax reform bill created by House Speaker Paul Ryan and Rep. Kevin Brady, which would create a so-called border adjustment tax, could draw $385 billion in retaliatory tariffs from our trading partners, according to estimates from an economist at the Peterson Institute for International Economics, a nonpartisan think tank.
Under the border adjustment scheme, Washington would not tax exports but would impose an across-the-board tax — probably around 20 percent — on imports into the country. The hope is that the new import tax would help mitigate the big boost to the U.S. budget deficit that's expected if Trump slashes U.S. corporate taxes. Border adjustment also is seen as boosting U.S. exports and manufacturing.
But countries affected by the tax could retaliate with their own tariffs on imports of American-made products, and could do so with the sanction of the World Trade Organization, the governing body in that kind of trade dispute. We don't know for sure if the Republican tax plan would trigger WTO-approved retaliatory tariffs, but foreign governments are already laying the groundwork for legal cases — and it's happened before, though never to the extent that a 20 percent tax on imports could incite.
Suddenly, President Donald Trump's legislative agenda is in deep trouble.
On health care, the budget and tax reform, Trump faces strong resistance barely a month into his presidency. Though Republicans who control Congress have set a streamlined path designed to make Democrats irrelevant, disagreements within the GOP now threaten that plan across the board.
The plan calls for repealing Obamacare and replacing it by mid-April, passing a fiscal 2018 budget and then enacting tax reform by August. That ambitious timetable sounds reasonable in light of recent history; by the end of February 2009, under new President Barack Obama, Democratic congressional majorities had already swept through a massive economic stimulus.
But neither the White House nor congressional Republicans have yet released their long-promised plans to replace Obamacare with better, cheaper alternatives. On Monday, leaders of two different conservative groups within the House Republican caucus declared their opposition to the approach advanced by Speaker Paul Ryan.
Their objection: the plan's tax credits for Americans to buy insurance represent a new federal entitlement too much like Obamacare itself. Yet such tax credits are vital to preventing massive drops in the number of people with health insurance, which Senate Republicans, Republican governors and Trump himself have said they want to avoid.
Ryan aims to overcome intraparty resistance by daring GOP dissenters to vote no when a repeal-and-replacement plan reaches the House floor. That's a risky approach to take with firebrands so willing to defy their leaders that they forced the resignation of the speaker's predecessor, John Boehner.
The White House on Monday outlined its broad approach for the budget. Budget Director Mick Mulvaney said the administration aimed to boost defense spending by $54 billion, financed through offsetting cuts in domestic spending.
His objective faces huge obstacles. Such a budget shift would require legislation to alter statutory spending caps that, unlike the Obamacare repeal Trump hopes to pass, would not be shielded from Senate filibuster.
Chances the White House could attract the eight Democrats needed to back such a shift are remote. So are chances of holding all 52 Senate Republicans behind it.
The spring housing market started early this year, not because of higher-than-average temperatures but because of hotter-than-average demand and overheating home prices.
This year may be the starkest example of a post-recession reality that is redefining housing as we know it.
"This spring housing market is shaping up to be another doozy for homebuyers," said Ralph McLaughlin, chief economist for home-listing website Trulia. "Housing affordability is the key to helping break yet another year of gridlocked inventory, but all signs are showing that homes this spring will be much less affordable than last year."
Affordability is being hit on several fronts: The foreclosure crisis is over, but it left behind an entirely new landscape for potential buyers. Entry-level homes are scarce because investors bought tens of thousands of them during the crisis and turned them into rentals. The number of single-family rentals jumped to more than 15 million, up from about 11 million in 2009, according to the U.S. Census.
Homebuilders continue to operate well below normal levels because of higher costs and a lack of labor, and thousands of construction workers left the business during the recession, never to return. Builders don't focus on entry-level homes because the margins are simply too tight, and prices for new construction are also rising at a fast clip.
What's more, credit is still tight, and the youngest cohort of buyers, the millennials, are delaying marriage and parenthood, the two biggest drivers of home ownership. The shortage of homes for sale has now pushed prices to a 30-year high, according to S&P CoreLogic Case-Shiller. Rising mortgage rates only add to the pressure.
"Home prices continue to advance, with the national average rising faster than at any time in the last two-and-a-half years," said David M. Blitzer, managing director and chairman of the index committee at S&P Dow Jones Indices. "With all 20 cities [in the S&P/Case-Shiller Index] seeing prices rise over the last year, questions about whether this is a normal housing market or if prices could be heading for a fall are natural."
At a Sunday open house in Los Angeles this weekend, nearly a dozen house hunters showed up before the scheduled start. The three-bedroom, two-bathroom home was reasonably priced, in a desirable neighborhood and move-in ready.
President Donald Trump's goal of 3 percent economic growth is somewhat unrealistic, CNBC's Jim Cramer said on Tuesday.
In an interview with Fox & Friends that aired Tuesday morning, Trump said part of the money for a proposed increase in military spending would come from a revved-up economy.
"If I can get that up to 3 percent or maybe more, we have a whole different ball game," he said.
During his election campaign, Trump pledged to deliver 4 percent annual GDP growth.
"It would be fabulous if we got there," Cramer said on "Squawk on the Street."
Cramer's comment came ahead of Trump's speech to a joint session of Congress Tuesday night.
Wall Street will be listening for clues or details regarding the administration's plans on tax reform and deregulation, which could give the economy a boost.
In 2016, the economy grew 1.6 percent, its worse performance since 2011.
—Reuters contributed to this report.
More robust economic growth will help fund increases in spending to bulk up the military and upgrade the nation's infrastructure, President Donald Trump told Fox News.
"I think the money is going to come from a revved up economy," Trump said in a taped "Fox & Friends" interview that aired Tuesday ahead of his evening address to a joint session of Congress.
In the government's second look at fourth-quarter gross domestic product out Tuesday morning, the annual growth rate of 1.9 percent, which was unchanged from the initial reading, was slower than expected.
"I mean you look at the kind of numbers we're doing," he argued. "If I can get that up to 3 [percent] or maybe more, we have a whole different ballgame."
In a preview of Trump's speech, the White House said the president's first budget will call for a $54 billion increase in defense spending and corresponding cuts in what the administration deems lower priority programs.
Trump told Fox that military spending could even be "$30 billion more than that."
Dallas Fed President Robert Kaplan believes it's time for the central bank to pull back on its aggressive easing policies.
In a CNBC interview, Kaplan said the Fed should move "sooner rather than later," a phrase he has been using in recent days to indicate that rate hikes this year are appropriate.
"I actually think we're now much closer to meeting our employment and inflation objectives," he said on "Squawk Box." "Once you've decided that, you need to take advantage of those windows when they present themselves."
Recent days have seen the market start to price in a higher probability that the Fed will hike in March. While some measures indicate a 50 percent chance of a move, the CME's tracker puts the possibility closer to 31 percent.
Kaplan said he believes market-based measures are probably close to correct, though he wasn't specific about timing the increase.
"I don't think the exact timing is the most important thing. I think the path of rates is," he said. "In that regard I think the market is probably in the neighborhood of where we're heading."
On other issues, Kaplan expressed some optimism regarding changes expected from the new administration.
President Donald Trump has promised a slew of measures aimed at pulling the U.S. out of its subpar growth path since the financial crisis ended. Among those plans are increased domestic spending on infrastructure projects coupled with lower taxes and a rollback in regulations.
Those things "could have positive impacts" particularly on productivity, Kaplan said, though he cautioned against policies that might slow immigration. He said growing the labor pool is important as the workforce ages and productivity slows.
Kaplan also addressed the below-the-radar issue of when the Fed will start reducing the size of its $4.5 trillion balance sheet.
Wall Street has been buzzing lately with talk about when the central bank will start to roll off the Treasurys and mortgage-backed securities it acquired during three rounds of "quantitative easing" aimed at boosting the economy.
However, Fed officials have been fairly quiet on the issue. Some market experts worry that when the Fed starts shrinking its balance sheet it will push up interest rates. Kaplan said the balance sheet reduction won't start until the Fed is "well underway" in terms of raising rates.
"We'll have to get a little further along, then we should let the balance sheet run off in a ... gradual way, for me in a way that doesn't unduly affect the markets," he said.
U.S. economic growth slowed in the fourth quarter as previously reported, with robust consumer spending offset by downward revisions to business and government investment.
Gross domestic product rose at a 1.9 percent annual rate in the final three months of 2016, the Commerce Department said on Tuesday in its second estimate for the period. That matched the estimate published last month.
Output increased at a 3.5 percent rate in the third quarter.
The economy grew 1.6 percent for all of 2016, its worst performance since 2011, after expanding 2.6 percent in 2015.
Economic data early in the first quarter has been mixed, with retail sales rising in January but homebuilding and business spending on capital goods easing.
The economy may get a boost from President Donald Trump's proposed stimulus package of sweeping tax cuts and infrastructure spending, as well as less regulations.
Trump, who pledged during last year's election campaign to deliver 4 percent annual GDP growth, has promised a "phenomenal" tax plan that the White House said would include tax cuts for businesses and individuals.
Details on the proposal remain vague, though Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said on Sunday that Trump would use a policy speech to Congress on Tuesday night to preview some aspects of his tax reform plans.
Economists polled by Reuters had expected fourth-quarter GDP would be revised up to a 2.1 percent rate.
U.S. Treasury prices rose after the data, while the dollar dipped against a basket of currencies. U.S. stock index futures were largely unchanged.
Low inventory and mortgage rates pushed home-price gains to a 30-month high in December, according to the S&P/Case-Shiller U.S. National Home Price Index.
The index, which measures all nine U.S. census divisions, found that home prices rose 5.8 percent year over year, up from November's 5.6 percent annual gain. The December rise was the highest annual increase since June 2014, when it rose 6.3 percent vs. to June 2013.
A poll by Reuters showed that the index was expected to rise 5.3 percent in December, after rising by the same amount a month earlier.
The S&P/Case Shiller 20-city composite index, which tracks the nation's largest cities, gained 5.6 percent year over year, up from 5.2 percent the previous month. Seattle, Portland, Oregon, and Denver once again topped the charts with the largest year-over-year gains. Seattle continued to lead the pack, rising at an annualized rate of 10.8 percent.
Of the nation's 20 largest cities, seven reached their all-time highs in December: Seattle, Portland, Denver, Boston, Charlotte, North Carolina, San Francisco and Dallas.
"Home prices continue to advance, with the national average rising faster than at any time in the last two-and-a-half years,"  David Blitzer, managing director and chairman of the index committee at S&P Dow Jones Indices, said in a press release.
And while rising home prices can trigger concerns about inflation, Blitzer said the speed at which they are growing "is not alarming." He cited low inventory as a factor for the rise.
"While sales of existing single-family homes passed five million units at annual rates in January, the highest since 2007, the inventory of homes for sales remains quite low with a 3.6 month supply," he said.
Blitzer noted that new home sales were higher than in recent years, at 555,000 in 2016, but still under the average pace of 700,000 since 1990.
Mortgage rates also had an impact on the rise, Blitzer said: "A 30-year fixed rate mortgage today is 4.2 percent compared to the 6.4 percent average since 1990."
Correction: This story was revised to correct that the 30-month high reflected the annual percentage price rise.

Just as Washington is gearing up to goose the economy, the Federal Reserve could be teeing up an interest rate increase that could put a damper on things.
The chances that the Fed will hike rates at its March 14-15 meeting have been creeping higher in recent days. By at least one estimate, the probability is now at 50 percent, after being in the teens just last week.
"This is what the Fed wanted," said Peter Boockvar, chief market analyst at The Lindsey Group. "Now, the Fed may not raise, but they wanted at least the flexibility to do it."
Central bank policymakers in the past have been loathe to tighten policy when the market is not anticipating such a move. The Fed last hiked in December, at a time when officials had telegraphed a move and the market had almost completely priced it in.
Hawkish statements in recent days appear to have pushed up the chances.
A summary released last week of the Jan. 31-Feb. 1 meeting revealed that members anticipated a hike "fairly soon," as long as economic data and financial conditions cooperated.
Then, Dallas Fed President Robert Kaplan said Monday that recent comments he has made that a hike should come sooner rather than later should be construed as meaning "in the near future." (Kaplan will be interviewed live by CNBC on Tuesday.)
The combination of events has translated into a coin flip of a chance for a March rate hike, according to Boockvar's calculations.
Stock markets may have given Donald Trump a thumbs-up since his election win but one analyst has warned that the new U.S. President is pushing hardest on policies that could shrink the U.S. economy.
The S&P 500 has risen nearly 11 percent since Trump's November victory as investors bet on fresh measures to reduce and simplify taxation.
Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said Thursday that he wants to see "very significant" tax reform passed before Congress' August recess, in what could prove a tough task as lawmakers work through a complex agenda.
"We want to get this done by the August recess. We've been working closely with the leadership in the House and the Senate and we're looking at a combined plan," he told CNBC in his first television interview since assuming office.
President Donald Trump has repeatedly made pledges for tax reform and regulatory cuts since he took office, creating optimism among business executives and investors.
So far, Trump's plan is unclear. He has promised to detail a tax plan in the coming weeks, without saying much about whether it is a version of his proposal outlined during the campaign or if it will resemble House Republicans' plan. The U.S. Senate has presented no proposal at all.
Congress is expected to introduce legislation next month to at least partially repeal the Affordable Care Act — Obamacare — before it moves on to tax reform. Mnuchin said the White House and both chambers of Congress "are all working together" on the tax plan.
President Donald Trump 's much-anticipated tax reform plan may, in fact, give tax breaks to the wealthy, CNBC's Robert Frank said Thursday.
Frank said Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin, in an exclusive interview with CNBC, appears to have walked back a previous statement that there would be no absolute tax cut for the wealthy.
"He was very clear that there would be no reduction in the taxes of the upper-income taxpayers," Frank said on "Squawk Box."
"When (CNBC Squawk Box anchor) Becky [Quick] asked him that this morning, he kind of walked it back. [He] said, 'Well it's our objective ... we haven't finalized anything.' What I don't understand is what's wrong with giving tax breaks to the upper-income earners if that's what you're doing?"
Larry Kudlow, a CNBC senior contributor, disagreed with Frank's assessment. He said the middle class is the winner in Trump's plan.
"Eighty percent of this bill revolves around large- and small-business tax cuts. And the biggest winner is middle-income wage earners," Kudlow said.

Federal Reserve officials want investors to believe that every meeting is a live one, with the possibility always there that the central bank will hike interest rates in response to financial conditions.
The market, though, is unconvinced, particularly as it concerns the March meeting, which in some sense could be the Fed's most important of the year.
Chatter lately from Federal Open Market Committee members is that March is on the table for the first hike since December.
In congressional testimony last week, Chair Janet Yellen dropped a hawkish hint, saying it would be "unwise" to wait too long to hike. Philadelphia Fed President Patrick Harker, an FOMC voter, late last week told Market News International that he would not rule out a rate increase. And nonvoter Loretta Mester of Cleveland continued her pro-hike rhetoric, saying she believes an increase would be appropriate if the economy stays on track.
All of the tightening Fedspeak, though, did little to move the markets.
Fed funds futures trading points to a less than 1 in 5 chance of a March move, only a little more than where the probability sat before Yellen's speech, according to the CME's tracking tool. The market still believes the next most likely hike is June, with the next best chance in November or December. Traders estimate about a 43 percent of three increases this year.
Investors on Wednesday will get a clearer peek inside the minds of U.S. central bankers when the Federal Open Market Committee releases the minutes of its Jan. 31-Feb. 1 meeting.
The March meeting is so important because if the Fed should approve a hike, it would set the tone for the year, sending a pretty unambiguous signal that monetary policy will be tighter than what the market anticipates.
Amid sharply higher business and consumer sentiment, a new president looking to spend big on public works projects and a market that continues to breach new highs, the fallout could be significant.
More than a dozen chief executives from some of the nation's biggest manufacturing companies called on lawmakers Tuesday to overhaul the corporate tax code and embrace a controversial proposal that would reduce the cost of exports but penalize imports.
In a letter to House and Senate leadership, they argued that the current tax system penalizes American factory workers and restrains business investment and economic growth. Among the 16 executives who signed the letter are Dennis Muilenburg of Boeing, Jim Umpleby of Caterpillar, Thomas Kennedy of Raytheon and Gregory Hayes of United Technologies.
"We applaud your efforts to pursue tax reform that is both big and bold," the letter states. "Incremental tweaks will not level the playing field for American workers or dramatically reinvigorate economic growth."
Household debt in the U.S. totals a staggering $12.58 trillion, a level not seen since 2008, according to the New York Federal Reserve's quarterly report released Thursday.
The figure represents a $226 billion increase in household debt for the fourth quarter, the largest quarterly increase since 2013.
The ballooning debt figure is attributed mostly to rising reliance on home and auto loans, the report said. Credit card debt and student loans also played a part.
But there's no evidence in the New York Fed's report to show that people can't handle the debt they're taking on, as bankruptcies and foreclosures hit an 18-year low in the last quarter of 2016.
The Fed's first interest rate hike of 2017 is likely to come next month because of inflation indicators and Fed Chair Janet Yellen's congressional hearing, analyst Peter Boockvar told CNBC on Thursday.
"I think March is a done deal. I think Yellen in her nice, soft, clear way said it was a done deal. And I think yesterday's CPI number clinched it," the Lindsey Group chief market analyst said on "Squawk Box."
The Bureau of Labor Statistics reported Wednesday that the Consumer Price Index jumped 0.6 percent in January, the largest increase since February 2013. The number reflected rising prices on gasoline and other goods, indicating rising inflationary pressures.
Boockvar said the market's expectations are not fully adjusted for a rate hike because the Fed's reputation has become that of "the boy who cried rate."
"They've trained the markets not to believe when they're going to raise rates," Boockvar said, adding that Yellen would be well served to give the market a stronger indication if she anticipates a March hike. The Fed's next policy meeting is March 14-15.
Some kind of hint from the Fed would be especially critical considering the Trump administration's tax reform proposal, which could be offset by a hike, the analyst said.
"If the total tax package happens, ... earnings [go] up like 6, 7 percent. The stock market's rallied about 9 percent, so we pretty much priced in the expected earnings growth rate," Boockvar said.
"What I don't think we've priced in is the offset of what happens with interest rates," he continued. "It's this tug of war between fiscal stimulus and monetary headwinds."
The number of Americans filing for unemployment benefits increased less than expected last week, a sign that the labor market was continuing to tighten.
Initial claims for state unemployment benefits rose 5,000 to a seasonally adjusted 239,000 for the week ended Feb. 11, the Labor Department said on Thursday.
Data for the prior week was unrevised.
Claims have been below 300,000, a threshold associated with a strong labor market, for 102 consecutive weeks.
That is the longest stretch since 1970, when the labor market was much smaller.
The labor market is at or close to full employment, with the unemployment rate at 4.8 percent.
U.S. homebuilding fell in January as the construction of multi-family housing projects dropped, but upward revisions to the prior month's data and a jump in permits to a one-year high suggested the housing recovery remained on track.
Housing starts declined 2.6 percent to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 1.25 million units, the Commerce Department said on Thursday.
December's starts were revised up to a rate of 1.28 million units from the previously reported 1.23 million pace.
Homebuilding was up 10.5 percent compared to January 2016. Permits for future construction jumped 4.6 percent in January to a rate of 1.29 million units, the highest level since November 2015.
Economists polled by Reuters had forecast groundbreaking activity slipping to a rate of 1.22 million units last month and building permits rising to a 1.23 million pace.
The housing market recovery is being driven by a strong labor market, which is boosting employment opportunities for young people and supporting household formation.
Higher mortgage rates could, however, slow demand for housing.
The Federal Reserve expected the current improvement in U.S. inflation and employment and, while monetary policy remains accommodative, it is headed on the right path in removing that stimulus, Fed Vice Chair Stanley Fischer said on Thursday.
The Fed expected "to be moving closer to the 2-percent inflation rate and that the labor market would continue to strengthen. If those two things happen we'll be on the (policy) path that we more or less expected," he said on Bloomberg radio.
Monetary policy is "in the land of accommodative," Fischer said, adding: "If (inflation) is significantly above (target) you begin to worry and you begin to act."
Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen acknowledged that the economy is weak, but said Fed policies have been a help, not a hindrance.
Since the central bank enacted historically accommodative policies following the 2008 financial crisis, the U.S. actually has grown faster than most other parts of the world and has a strong banking system, she said.
"The economy has recovered more quickly, for example, than ... European Union economies have in the aftermath of the crisis," Yellen said during her second day of congressional testimony Wednesday. "The Federal Reserve has put in place highly accommodative monetary policies meant to spur spending in the economy and restore low unemployment or to achieve the goal of maximizing employment and price stability as assigned to us by Congress."
"I believe we're coming very close to achieving those objectives, and monetary policy remains accommodative," she added.
Yet overall growth remains weak, with the economy failing to break 3 percent for any single year during the recovery.
Though the U.S. has added about 16 million jobs since the 2010 peak in unemployment, wage gains have been meager and paychecks in inflation-adjusted terms actually are lower than they were pre-crisis.
"Economic growth has been quite disappointing," she said.
Yellen faced more intense grilling from House members than she did before the Senate on Tuesday. Several members questioned her about the pace of economic growth compared to the extreme measures that the Fed has instituted, including seven years of near-zero rates and a balance sheet that has soared to $4.5 trillion.
Rep. Jeb Hensarling, the Texas Republican who chairs the House Financial Services Committee, pointedly told Yellen that Congress does not believe the Fed has "found the proper balance" between regulation and growth.
However, she defended the Fed's actions.
"The economy is recovering from a very severe crisis," she said. "We've put in place stronger financial regulation that has forced our banks to build up their capital buffers to deal with problem loans and to strengthen themselves to the point where they have been to support economic growth and recovery in our economy."
Consumer spending and inflation data shifted into a higher gear in January, signaling the potential for an earlier-than-expected Fed interest rate hike, if the trend continues.
Fed Chair Janet Yellen pushed up the odds of a March hike with her hawkish comments Tuesday during her Senate testimony, but the strength of Wednesday's retail sales and hotter-than-forecast CPI inflation data nudged them even higher — to about 30 percent.
JPMorgan economists, in fact, changed their forecast for a June rate hike to May based on the two economic reports.
"We still think March is too early for them to hike, particularly given their propensity to prepare markets for a move. Instead, we think March would be a good meeting for them to prepare the markets for a hike at the subsequent meeting on May third," the economists wrote. Most Fed watchers have forecast a June rate hike.
Goldman Sachs economists also said that based mostly on the hotter inflation reading, the likelihood of a March hike increased to 30 percent from 20 percent, but they also see a better chance for May.
"In short, we now think it is a close call whether the committee will hike the funds rate at the next two meetings or wait until June, and we see very high odds [90 percent] of at least one rate increase by mid-year," they wrote in a note.
The Consumer Price Index jumped 0.6 percent in January, after rising 0.3 percent in December, for its  biggest monthly gain in four years. The CPI was up 2.5 percent, in the largest year-over-year gain since March 2012. It rose above 2 percent for the first time in two years in December.
"Up to this point, inflation had been creeping higher, but the pace is clearly accelerating. The acceleration in the inflation picture along with the continued strong performance of the consumer sector opens the door and increases the probability that the Fed will raise rates as soon as March," wrote Ward McCarthy, chief financial economist at Jefferies.
The Fed has a target of 2 percent inflation, though it favors looking at the personal consumption expenditure inflation data, which is under 2 percent. The Fed's dual mandate covers inflation and employment, and inflation has, until recently, been persistently low. The Goldman economists now forecast the PCE inflation reading will be 1.98 percent in January.
Retail sales also were higher than expected, rising 0.4 percent in January. Sales were revised up for December to 1 percent. Excluding automobiles, gasoline and building materials, sales were up 0.4 percent. Economists use that number in calculating gross domestic product, and first quarter forecasts could rise as a result. Goldman economists boosted their first quarter forecast to 2.1 percent, up 0.2 after the retail sales.
As expected, vehicle sales showed the biggest drop in 10 months.
"The core numbers were still good. The consumer is resilient and coming through. In the inflation data, almost half of it was the sharp increase in prices at the pump," said Diane Swonk, CEO at DS Economics.
"Apparel held up. Department stores were up after blood-letting draconian declines in December. Some data you take with a grain of salt, but it is a resilient consumer," she said.
Swonk said she now sees about a 30 percent chance of a rate hike in March. The market had backed off from the idea the Fed could move in March after the dovish statement the Fed made following its last meeting.
"Does it mean a March rate hike for sure? No, but it's an open door," said Swonk. "It's a warmer economy and it was a warmer January. We're around 2 percent growth in the first quarter which is what we expected. It's good fundamentally," she said.
JPMorgan economists noted that rhetoric from FOMC officials has turned "marginally more hawkish lately."
"Almost all Fed speakers have emphasized that the employment mandate virtually has been achieved, while they are closing in on the inflation mandate. Today's CPI number will reinforce the sense that they are closer to achieving their 2.0 percent inflation goal. Of course, given that the upside surprise was located primarily in the core goods category there is a very good chance that much of the strength was a one-off," the economists wrote.
They said they still expect just two rate hikes this year, with the second in September. They also noted that even though there is no press briefing planned for the May meeting, it does not matter.
Yellen emphasized that "all meetings are live" when she spoke before Congress. Wall Street has held to the belief that the Fed would not want to raise rates when there is no briefing planned, where it can explain its move.
Ian Lyngen, head of U.S. rate strategy at BMO, said even though the odds are moving higher, he does no expect the Fed to move in March.
"You're right ahead of Frexit," he said, referring to the French election where a nationalist candidate would like to take France off the euro.
"There's a lot of data between now and March. I do think we might see better odds priced in. I certainly think the Fed would like to go. They just need the cover of the data and other events," said Lyngen.
Treasury yields moved higher after the strong data. The 10-year yield was at 2.49 percent and the 2-year note yield rose to 1.24 percent.
Industrial production was also reported Wednesday, and it was weaker than expected, showing a decline of 0.3 percent. The number was dragged down by a 2.8 percent drop in vehicle production and a 5.7 percent decline in utilities, due to warmer winter weather.

U.S. businesses stockpiled more goods in December and posted the biggest sales increase in nearly six years.
The Commerce Department says business inventories rose a seasonally adjusted 0.4 percent in December, led by an increase in stockpiles at stores that sell food and beverages. Auto and auto parts dealers reduced inventories 0.6 percent. Furniture and appliance stores also cut back.
Companies also reported a 2 percent monthly sales increase, the best since March 2011.
Manufacturers reported that sales rose 2.2 percent in December. Retailers posted a 1.2 percent gain.
U.S. economic growth was hobbled much of last year by inventory cutbacks. But businesses rebuilt stockpiles in the October-December period, accounting for more than half of fourth quarter economic growth.
The governor of Mexico's state of Jalisco is visiting more than 40 U.S. tech companies with the message that it's a great place for high tech, the latest cross-border recruitment effort to respond to U.S. immigration policy.
Jalisco Gov. Jorge Aristóteles Sandoval Díaz will meet with California Gov. Jerry Brown, 13 large tech companies including Facebook and Google, and 30 startups beginning this week in California. It's an annual trip for officials from Jalisco, birthplace of tequila, synonymous with hot sauce, and sometimes called Mexico's Silicon Valley for its already thriving tech scene.
More from USA Today:Amazon wants to drop packages by parachuteAmazon's Jeff Bezos talks strategy with WaPo every 2 weeksCan a throwback phone revive Nokia?
This year, the trip has an added purpose: to talk to Brown about a bi-lateral agenda to support Mexican citizens to remain in the U.S. And, Sandoval will promote capital city Guadalajara and the rest of Jalisco as a friendly environment for skilled workers that may have trouble getting hired by U.S. tech firms if the Trump administration passes more restrictions on H-1B visas,  as a draft order indicated.
"We want tech companies to know there is a huge opportunity in Jalisco for them to grow," Sandoval, who has created a cabinet-level Innovation Department, told USA TODAY in a phone interview Tuesday.
"Jalisco has many advantages" — a close time zone to Silicon Valley, talent, strong university system, government support and infrastructure, Sandoval said. The Trump administration's policies, in particular the possibility of an executive order that could curtail H-1B work visas, also work in Jalisco's favor, he said.
The pitch is hardly a slam-dunk. Some tech companies remain reluctant to expand in Mexico, with a  threatened 35 percent tariff from Trump on goods made there looming as large as his much-heralded wall. (Trump floated the idea of a 20 percent tax on Mexican imports to pay for the wall, though White House spokesman Sean Spicer said it was one of several proposals.) There are also lingering questions about Jalisco's overall tech talent, poor broadband access in some areas and costs related to opening operations offshore.
Nonetheless, Sandoval's push to raise awareness about Jalisco comes at a time when the U.S.'s northern neighbor,  Canada, is also attempting to recruit tech workers as the U.S. halts entries of immigrants from seven predominantly Muslim nations and threatens to further limit H-1Bs, which offer a pipeline of talent from abroad. Canadian venture firms and companies are enticing U.S. start-ups with funding, sparkling new work spaces, broadband access and a relatively affordable cost of living.
Jalisco's pitch is similar. The state on the western coast of central Mexico has blossomed into a thriving tech hub worth $21 billion. Guadalajara or coastal Puerto Vallarta are home to manufacturing, design and research-and-development operations for Intel, Hewlett Packard and Oracle, among others. Oracle and Intel house innovation centers in Guadalajara, and a 940-acre media-business center is under construction.
Technology goods represent about 55 percent of Jalisco's exports, and account for 25,000 jobs in the state. Nearly a third of Mexico's tech business comes from Jalisco, according to a spokesman for Sandoval.
"The Jalisco government is 100 percent focused on technology," says Bismarck Lepe, CEO of San Francisco-based tech services firm Wizeline. "It's an ideal region for intellectual property, and not cheap manufacturing."
Lepe has deep ties to Mexico. His parents are from there, but left for the U.S. for a better economic opportunity. Lepe, who studied at Stanford Universityand worked at Google, decided to return in 2010 after a third-party analysis determined Guadalajara was fertile ground for tech talent. Half of Wizeline's 270 employees are in Guadalajara, most of them engineers.


"We want to make Guadalajara a tech hub for the world — from multinational companies to mid-tiers and start-ups," says Cindy Blanco, general director of StartupGDL, a nonprofit organization that champions the region. Guadalajara has lured entrepreneurs with a pool of tech talent fed by the university system, a comparable time zone (Central) to Silicon Valley and direct flights, Blanco says.
The close proximity of Mexico and Canada could offer concerned American companies — and workers — an option should Trump issue executive orders on a revised travel ban, curtail H-1Bs and revise the NAFTA trade accord. Job seekers are likely to choose Canada as a backup. It was the most popular second destination, at 43%, followed by Australia (12%) and the United Kingdom (5%), based on 1,200 people tracked last week by Indeed, a job-search engine. Mexico was No. 12 on the list.
'Not an ideal solution'
Mexico is at a disadvantage when it comes to talent, say tech executives. Its engineering pool isn't as bountiful in Mexico as it is in India and China, and salaries for Mexican engineers are significantly higher because competition for them is so fierce, says Stephen Stokols, CEO of FreedomPop, a wireless Internet and mobile virtual network operator.
"Mexico is a primary market for us, but it's not an ideal solution," Stokols says. His Los Angeles-based company has 20 people — about 10% of its worldwide workforce — in Mexico City, mostly engineers. "We would have more people there, if the engineering talent were available."

It can also be expensive to open operations south of the border and establish a payment system, says Jesus Hoyos, managing director at Solvis Consulting, which resells tech products in Mexico.
Still, Mexico might offer as compelling a case for job seekers turned away by the U.S. It is a huge trade partner with the U.S. — trade between the two companies totaled $583.6 billion in 2015, according to the U.S. Trade Representative — and the home to more than 1million Americans, the largest community for expatriates. (Nearly 40,000 American and Canadian expats are among Jalisco's population of seven million.)
U.S. consumer prices recorded their biggest increase in nearly four years in January as households paid more for gasoline and other goods, suggesting inflation pressures could be picking up.
The Labor Department said on Wednesday its Consumer Price Index jumped 0.6 percent last month after gaining 0.3 percent in December. January's increase in the CPI was the largest since February 2013.
In the 12 months through January, the CPI increased 2.5 percent, the biggest year-on-year gain since March 2012.
The CPI rose 2.1 percent in the year to December.
Economists polled by Reuters had forecast the CPI rising 0.3 percent last month and advancing 2.4 percent from a year ago.
Inflation is trending higher as prices for energy goods and other commodities rebound as global demand picks up.
The so-called core CPI, which strips out food and energy costs, rose 0.3 percent last month after increasing 0.2 percent in December. That lifted the year-on-year core CPI increase to 2.3 percent in January from December's 2.2 percent increase.
The Fed has a 2 percent inflation target and tracks an inflation measure which is currently at 1.7 percent.
Gradually firming inflation and a tightening labor market could allow the Fed to raise interest rates at least twice this year.
Fed Chair Janet Yellen told lawmakers on Tuesday that "waiting too long to remove accommodation would be unwise."
A troublesome signal just appeared in the housing market and could put taxpayers at risk.
Federal Housing Administration mortgage delinquencies jumped in the fourth quarter for the first time since 2006, the Mortgage Bankers Association reported Wednesday. The FHA insures low down-payment loans and is a favorite among first-time homebuyers.
The seasonally adjusted FHA delinquency rate increased to 9.02 percent in the fourth quarter from 8.3 percent in the third quarter, MBA data show. The jump, which followed the lowest delinquency rate since 1997, was driven by loans made since 2014 and early-stage delinquencies, those just 30 days past due.
After a sharp jump following the presidential election, confidence among U.S. homebuilders continued its slide in February. A monthly sentiment survey fell 2 points to a level of 65, according to the National Association of Home Builders. Anything above 50 is considered positive. The survey stood at 58 in February 2016. It hit a recent high of 69 in December.
"While builders remain optimistic, we are seeing the numbers settling back into a normal range," said NAHB Chairman Granger MacDonald, a homebuilder and developer from Kerrville, Texas. "Regulatory burdens remain a major challenge to our industry, and NAHB looks forward to working with the new Congress and administration to help alleviate some of the pressures that are holding small businesses back and making homes less affordable."
All three of the index's components fell, but current buyer traffic led the losses with a sharp 5-point decline to 46. That put it back in negative territory. Current sales conditions fell one point to 71, and sales expectations over the next six months fell three points to 73.
"With much of the decline this month resulting from a decrease in buyer traffic, builders continue to struggle to minimize costs while dealing with supply side challenges such as a lack of developed lots and labor shortages," said NAHB Chief Economist Robert Dietz. "Despite these constraints, the overall housing market fundamentals remain strong, and we expect to see continued growth this year as some of these concerns are addressed."
Housing demand is very strong, but affordability has been weakening. Not only are home prices continuing to climb far faster than incomes and job growth, but mortgage rates are also higher than they were one year ago. Homebuilders are increasing production very slowly, but they are still only building about 70 percent of the homes they would during a historically normal housing cycle. Supplies of existing homes for sale are near record lows, a troubling sign as the usually busy spring housing season approaches. Sales of newly built homes fell 10 percent in December, as both prices and mortgage rates rose sharply.
U.S. retail sales rose more than expected in January as households bought electronics and a range of other goods, pointing to sustained domestic demand that should bolster economic growth in the first quarter.
The Commerce Department said on Wednesday retail sales increased 0.4 percent last month. December's retail sales were revised up to show a 1.0 percent rise instead of the previously reported 0.6 percent advance.
Last month's fairly upbeat sales came despite motor vehicle purchases recording their biggest drop in 10 months.
Compared to January last year retail sales were up 5.6 percent.
Excluding automobiles, gasoline, building materials and food services, retail sales increased 0.4 percent after an upwardly revised 0.4 percent gain in December.
These so-called core retail sales correspond most closely with the consumer spending component of gross domestic product.
Economists polled by Reuters had forecast retail sales ticking up 0.1 percent and core sales gaining 0.3 percent last month.
January's fairly solid retail sales supported views that economic growth will accelerate in the first quarter. The economy grew at a 1.9 percent annualized rate in the fourthquarter.
Consumer spending is being supported by a tightening labor market, which is gradually boosting wage growth.
That in turn is underpinning economic growth, paving the way for at least two interest rate increases from the Federal Reserve this year. Fed Chair Janet Yellen told lawmakers on Tuesday that "waiting too long to remove accommodation would be unwise."
The U.S. central bank has forecast three rate increases this year.
The Fed hiked its overnight interest rate last December by 25 basis points to a range of 0.50 percent to 0.75 percent.
U.S. industrial production fell in January as unseasonably warm weather caused a major drop in utilities output, offsetting gains in manufacturing and mining, the Federal Reserve said on Wednesday.
The U.S. central bank said its overall industrial production index fell 0.3 percent last month after a downwardly revised 0.6 percent gain in December.
Economists polled by Reuters had forecast industrial production being flat in January. December's output was originally reported as a 0.8 percent rise. The Fed's measure of the industrial sector comprises manufacturing, mining, and electric and gas utilities.
The bulk of the January decline was due to a 5.7 percent drop in utilities output because of reduced heating demand. Manufacturing production was up 0.2 percent, matching analysts' forecasts, while mining output rose 2.8 percent.
With overall output declining in January, the percentage of industrial capacity in use fell 0.3 percentage point during the month to 75.3 percent. Manufacturing capacity use rose 0.1 percentage point to 75.1 percent.
Fed officials look to capacity use as a signal for how much further the economy can accelerate before sparking higher inflation.
Waiting too long to raise interest rates would be "unwise" as economic growth continues and inflation rises, Fed Chair Janet Yellen told Congress on Tuesday.
Repeating caution that she and other central bank officials have issued in recent months, Yellen said that even though the Fed expects to hike gradually and to keep policy accommodative, getting rates back to normal levels is important and hikes will be considered ahead.
Market reaction was prompt, with government bond yields jumping on sentiment that Yellen was teeing up next month's Fed meeting as possible for a rate hike.
"By leaving March rate hike options open, Chair Yellen is sticking with her playbook with repeated reminders that every meeting is in fact a live meeting," said Mark Hamrick, senior economic analyst at Bankrate.com.
The Fed kept its target overnight lending rate near zero for seven years and raised just twice since — in December 2015 and again a year later. The funds rate is currently targeted in the 0.5 percent to 0.75 percent range.
Traders do not expect the policymaking Federal Open Market Committee to hike at the March session. However, Yellen did say that increases would be evaluated "at upcoming meetings."
"Waiting too long to remove accommodation would be unwise, potentially requiring the FOMC to eventually raise rates rapidly, which could risk disrupting financial markets and pushing the economy into recession," Yellen said, according to prepared remarks of her semiannual report on monetary policy to the Senate.
When hiking at the December 2016 meeting, FOMC members indicated that three more increases are likely in 2017. Traders, though, are pricing in just two moves — in June and December. The likelihood for a March move is at just 18 percent, according to the CME.
"At our upcoming meetings, the Committee will evaluate whether employment and inflation are continuing to evolve in line with these expectations, in which case a further adjustment of the federal funds rate would likely be appropriate," Yellen said.
Yellen deemed growth "moderate" amid a strengthening job market and inflation gradually moving up the Fed's 2 percent target. She noted that business sentiment is improving but manufacturing is getting hit with a rising U.S. dollar.
Fiscal policy also presents an uncertainty, she said, as President Donald Trump is working with congressional Republicans to roll back tax rates for individuals and corporations and to cut regulations.
Yellen urged lawmakers to focus on long-term growth and productivity and to put the burgeoning U.S. debt load on a "sustainable trajectory." The national debt currently sits at $19.2 trillion, of which the public is responsible for $14.4 trillion.
"Of course, it is too early to know what policy changes will be put in place or how their economic effects will unfold," she said. "While it is not my intention to opine on specific tax or spending proposals, I would point to the importance of improving the pace of longer-run economic growth and raising American living standards with policies aimed at improving productivity."
The remarks touched little on how the Fed plans to unwind its mammoth $4.5 trillion balance sheet, a topic of increasing concern on Wall Street. She did indicate that the Fed plans to continue reinvesting proceeds from the government debt it holds.
With the majority of market watchers expecting the Federal Reserve to stand pat on interest rates at the next meeting, Richmond Fed President Jeffrey Lacker said the next rate increase should happen sooner rather than later.
Lacker spoke on Tuesday in Newark, Delaware, at the University of Delaware 2017 Economic Forecast panel discussion.
"Rates need to rise more briskly than markets now seem to expect," he said in prepared remarks. "And the elevated uncertainty now surrounding fiscal policy, particularly the potential for substantial fiscal stimulus, suggests that our next increase should come sooner rather than later in order to reduce the risks associated with having to raise rates more rapidly later on."
Earlier this month, the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) decided to keep the target range for the federal funds rate at 0.5 to 0.75 percent.
According to the CME Group's FedWatch tool, the implied odds that the range will remain at current levels following the FOMC's March meeting stand at 86.7 percent. The probability of a rate hike to a range of 0.75 percent to 1 percent stands is at just 13.3 percent.
U.S. producer prices rose more than expected in January, recording their largest gain in four years amid increases in the cost of energy products and some services, but a strong dollar continued to keep underlying inflation tame.
The Labor Department said on Tuesday its producer price index for final demand jumped 0.6 percent last month. That was the largest increase since September 2012 and followed a 0.2 percent rise in December.
Despite the surge, the PPI only increased 1.6 percent in the 12 months through January. That followed a similar gain in the 12 months through December.
Economists polled by Reuters had forecast the PPI rising 0.3 percent last month and the year-on-year increase moderating to 1.5 percent. The rise in producer prices comes as manufacturers are reporting paying more for raw materials.
The gains largely reflect increases in the prices of commodities such as crude oil, which are being boosted by a steadily growing global economy. Oil prices have risen above $50 per barrel.
But with the dollar strengthening further against the currencies of the United States' main trading partners and wage growth still sluggish, the spill-over to consumer inflation from rising commodity prices is likely to be limited.
Last month, prices for final demand goods increased 1.0 percent, the largest rise since May 2015. The increase followed a 0.6 percent gain in December.
Wholesale food prices were unchanged after climbing 0.5 percent in December. Health care costs rose 0.2 percent. Those costs feed into the Fed's preferred inflation measure, the core personal consumption expenditures (PCE) index.
The volatile trade services component, which measures changes in margins received by wholesalers and retailers, shot up 0.9 percent in January after being unchanged in the prior month.
A key gauge of underlying producer price pressures that excludes food, energy and trade services rose 0.2 percent. That followed a 0.1 percent gain in December. The so-called core PPI increased 1.6 percent in the 12 months through January, slowing from December's 1.7 percent gain.
President Donald Trump and GOP leaders on Capitol Hill should aim to get as much support as possible from Democrats for their tax reform plan, but that's going to be difficult in this environment, said Robert Kimmitt, who served the three previous Republican administrations.
"When we did tax reform in the second term of the Reagan administration and put our proposal out in 1986, it was roundly criticized by everybody. And we knew, therefore, it was going pass," Kimmitt told CNBC's "Squawk Box" on Tuesday. Currently a public policy advisor at the law firm WilmerHale, Kimmitt had served as general counsel to the Treasury during the Reagan administration.
House Republicans, led by Ways and Means Chairman Kevin Brady and Speaker Paul Ryan, have crafted a broad tax overhaul package, including a reduction in corporate taxes.
Trump generally supports the idea of tax reform and campaigned on similar principles, but the White House has made no firm commitments on how to get it done.
One aspect of the GOP plan includes a border tax, a political lightning rod, which has been roundly criticized by companies that rely heavily on imports, such as retailers.
"In '85 [and] '86, we did tax reform. We did that largely behind the scenes and then put it out," Kimmitt said. "They are going to be doing it [now] in a more open fashion. In this political environment, that will be tougher."
Among his other government positions, Kimmitt had served as deputy Treasury secretary under President George W. Bush and as U.S. ambassador to Germany under President George H.W. Bush.
Liberal advocacy group Fed Up launched a campaign nearly three years ago in hopes of persuading the nation's central bank to hold off raising its benchmark interest rate.
The group organized protests at the Fed's annual retreat in Jackson Hole, Wyoming. It demonstrated outside the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. And it recruited prestigious economists and former top central bank officials to the cause.
But now, Fed Up has a new target: Republicans who want to curtail the central bank's power.
House Financial Services Chairman Jeb Hensarling, R-Texas, is expected to introduce legislation soon that would require the Fed to set rules for conducting monetary policy and explain any deviation from those rules. The Fed has bristled at the proposal, arguing that the proposal limits its power to revive the economy in moments of crisis.
Fed Up agrees, finding common ground between itself and the central bank it was created to criticize. The group mobilized its members at Fed Chair Janet Yellen's appearance Tuesday before the Senate Banking Committee. The group held protests ahead of her semi-annual testimony and intends to pack the hearing room with members wearing bright green shirts bearing slogans such as, "Whose Recovery?" Executive Director Shawn Sebastian said Fed Up met with several senators before the hearing to voice its concerns.
While the nation's unemployment rate declines, the jobless trend for America's youngest veterans is climbing, jumping to 6.3 percent in January from 4.4 percent in September.
"We still see around half a million veterans that are unemployed right now, and over a million veterans that are underemployed," said Brian Stann, CEO of Hire Heroes USA. Economist note that the jobless rate for post-9/11 vets is volatile, and the small sample size leaves it open to inaccuracy.
But even looking at the trend over a three-month period, the scenario looks tough for young vets. One reason, according to Stann: "They get out of the military and they're competing against their peer group that just graduated college. And a lot of companies do not equate four years of military service to four years at a university or state institution."
And it can be a huge challenge to transition from a regimented, follow-orders environment to the civilian world where self-starters succeed.
The majority of funds repatriated by U.S. companies will likely be spent on shareholders rather than investment in capital and people, Blackstone Vice Chairman John Studzinski told CNBC at the World Economic Forum in Davos on Tuesday.
"I would guess that two-thirds of the cash will go back to share buybacks and extraordinary dividends — so I think one of the things that's disconnected right now is this notion that all the money's going to go back to building plants and creating jobs," the senior managing director at the world's largest alternative investment firm said.
"Some of it will go to R&D because it has to, but I think a large portion of it, if I were to line up 20 CEOs, … the majority of them will say more than 40-60 percent of the cash will be used for share buybacks which will continue to support the stock market and to enhance share prices even further," he added.
Chinese President Xi Jinping said Tuesday that globalization has powered worldwide growth and should not be blamed for the world's problems.
In an attack on the anti-globalization rhetoric that has led to the election of Donald Trump as U.S. president and the Brexit vote in Britain, Xi told a packed audience at the World Economic Forum at Davos: "It is true that economic globalization created new problems, but this is no justification to write off economic globalization altogether.
"Rather we should adapt to and guide economic globalization, cushion its negative impacts and deliver its benefits for all countries."
Xi's speech marked the first time a Chinese head of state has visited the business summit. He used the forum to promote inclusive globalization and warn that populist approaches can lead to war and poverty. He also warned that tit-for-tat trade controls would benefit no one.
"No one would emerge as a winner in a global trade war," he said. "Pursuing protectionism is just like locking one's self in a dark room. Wind and rain might be kept outside but so are light and air."
The Chinese president said the world is full of contradictions and that globalization had become viewed as a "Pandora's box" by many people, hinting at the populist movements that have spread across Western nations in the last year.
The president of the Asian Development Bank is hopeful that the new U.S. administration will not put an end to free trade despite the protectionist views of the incoming president.
Speaking at the World Economic Forum in Davos, just days before President-elect Donald Trump takes office, Takehiko Nakao told CNBC: "I hope that the United States will continue to protect it, because it's also in the interest of America."
Trump has pledged to adopt a more protectionist view. He has said that one of his priorities is scrapping a trade deal conducted with Asian-Pacific countries, the Trans-Pacific Partnership.
According to Nakao, free trade has been the key "essence" for the economic success in Asia.
"For Asia to continue to grow, it's very important to keep free trade and the investment regime," he told CNBC on Tuesday, mentioning that the current growth forecast for China in 2017 is 6.5 percent.
President-elect Donald Trump's pledge to significantly increase infrastructure spending is both heartening and overdue, according to the chief executive of the world's largest cement company, LafargeHolcim.
Trump had vowed throughout his election campaign that he would make infrastructure investments a priority. The New York businessman is set to be inaugurated as President on Friday with LafargeHolcim expecting infrastructure projects could begin in the second half of 2017.
"We've believed for many years the U.S. needs a significant boost in infrastructure, if you look at the status of bridges, roads... core infrastructure in the U.S. needs real investment and we're heartened to see that that's coming," Eric Olsen, CEO of LafargeHolcim, told CNBC on Tuesday in Davos, Switzerland.
Warmer relations between the U.S. and Russia driven by President-elect Donald Trump will create opportunities for growth, the chief executive of Russian agrichemicals giant PhosAgro told CNBC on Tuesday.
Trump has been trying to build bridges with Russia and on Monday said he would consider lifting U.S. sanctions on the country in return for a reduction in nuclear weapons.
Andrey Guryev, CEO of PhosAgro, said there are high expectations of a thawing of tensions between the U.S. and Russia.
The "great betrayal" of working people haunts the World Economic Forum at Davos this year, the leader of the UNI Global Union has said, who also claimed that President-elect Donald Trump would be a continuation of current trends.
Philip Jennings, the general secretary of the union that represents more than 20 million workers from over 900 trade unions, said working people were feeling the brunt of "obscene rising inequality" in a press release issued at the beginning of this year's event.
"After 30 years of record profits, business had the chance to bring prosperity for all but they have failed and are now reaping the political consequences," he said.
"A century after the Russian Revolution, the people at the bottom of the economic pile are rising up again."
The world is tilting.
By constantly talking about the smog in Beijing, we have forgotten that China continues to weave its web around the world: First commercially, then economically by its international acquisitions and now diplomatically and militarily.
This winter, in the Swiss resort of Davos, it will probably be a consecration, with the confirmed attendance of Chinese President Xi Jinping. This is an event in itself, because it is not that often that heads of states of major powers come to Davos -- apart from Bill Clinton, that is.
Professional investors entered the new year — and a new day for U.S. politics — with high expectations, tempered with caution over what could go wrong.
Optimism for economic growth hit a two-year high among those responding to the latest Bank of America Merrill Lynch fund managers survey.
The biggest bets among respondents are on banks, the U.S. dollar and real estate investment trusts, while some of the biggest areas of scorn are emerging market stocks, industrials and commodities. A record level of respondents indicated small-cap stocks will outperform.
Bank of America Chairman and CEO Brian Moynihan told CNBC on Tuesday the prospects of stronger U.S. economic growth and higher interest rates have had a big, positive impact on business.
Shares of Bank of America have surged about 35 percent since Donald Trump won the presidency, swept up in the stock market rally since Election Day.
Appearing on "Squawk Box" from the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, Moynihan said there were a number of reasons for the strong performance.
"The team's done a great job with the clients and customers and getting expenses down, revenues stabilized," he said. "A lot of it was down to real hard work."
On Friday, Bank of America reported fourth-quarter adjusted earnings of 40 cents per share, which beat expectations by 2 cents a share. The bank also expects to earn $600 million in additional net interest income in the current quarter.
Revenue for the fourth quarter, of $19.99 billion, did fall slightly short of estimates.
Moynihan on CNBC Tuesday also cited: "The idea that there could be more growth. The idea that the rates could go up. ... Those all have a big impact to us."
Banks benefit from higher interest rates because they can charge customers more for lending.
The Federal Reserve increased rates in December for the second time in a decade. The previous rate hike was in December 2015.
"You want rates to rise for the right reason," Moynihan said. "There's good demand. Wages are rising in America. The economy is growing in America. That's the right reason."
In the latest Bank of America Merrill Lynch Fund Managers Survey, optimism for economic growth hit a two-year high. Among respondents, the biggest bets were on banks.
General Motors, one of several automakers criticized for building vehicles in Mexico and shipping them to the U.S., is adding 1,500 jobs in the U.S., the company announced on Tuesday.
The jobs are part of a $1 billion investment the automaker is making into GM facilities in the U.S..
The investment and new jobs have been in the works for some time,   according to sources, but the announcement shows the automaker is becoming more vocal publicizing how many Americans it employs.
Despite employing more than 50,000 hourly workers in the U.S., the automaker has been criticized by President-elect Trump for importing Chevy Cruze hatchbacks from an assembly plant in Mexico.
Two weeks ago Trump targeted GM by tweeting, "General Motors is sending Mexican made model of Chevy Cruze to U.S. car dealers - tax free across border. Make in U.S.A or pay big border tax!"
GM imports more vehicles from Mexico than any other automaker, selling more than 400,000 Mexico-made vehicles in the U.S. last year.
Free trade is too good for the U.S. economy to be restrictive, and the Trump administration's rhetoric will grow softer once they realize its benefits, JPMorgan Chase International Chairman Jacob Frenkel told CNBC on Tuesday.
"Free trade is always better than no trade, and we need to ensure … that it is inclusive and the benefits are shared," the chairman told "Worldwide Exchange."
Frenkel said that those who are demonstrably against free trade misconstrue the issue, which in truth is less about trade and more about how to combat inevitable job losses stemming from problems outside of the global supply chain.
"If you ask people who are against free trade, they will never tell you that they are against the benefits from trade. They will tell you that they are against some of the negative consequences that some parts of society are suffering," Frenkel said.
"Well, if that's the case, then the focus of debate should not be about trade but rather how to alleviate the hardship that occasionally occurs," he continued.
Job retraining and trade-adjustment assistance were two fiscal solutions that came to mind for Frenkel, who insisted that trade policy was not the fix to problems that some in Washington pin on globalized trade.
Billionaire Wilbur Ross, chosen by Donald Trump to help implement the president-elect's trade agenda, earned his fortune in part by running businesses that have offshored thousands of U.S. jobs, according to Labor Department data attained by Reuters.
As a high-stakes investor a decade ago, Ross specialized in turning around troubled manufacturing companies at a time when the U.S. economy was losing more than 100,000 jobs yearly due to global trade. A Senate confirmation hearing on his nomination to become commerce secretary is set for Wednesday.
Supporters say Ross saved thousands of U.S. jobs by rescuing firms from failure. Data attained by Reuters through a Freedom of Information Act request shows that rescue effort came at a price: textile, finance and auto-parts companies controlled by the private-equity titan eliminated about 2,700 U.S. positions since 2004 because they shipped production to other countries, according to a Labor Department program that assists workers who lose their jobs due to global trade.
Wal-Mart plans to add about 10,000 retail jobs in the U.S. as it opens new stores and expands existing locations.
The world's biggest retailer said Tuesday that there will also be about 24,000 construction jobs as well.
Wal-Mart Stores says there will be 59 new, expanded and relocated Walmart and Sam's Clubs facilities.
The chain is planning $6.8 billion in capital investments in the U.S. in the coming fiscal year, which starts on Feb. 1. The investments include construction and remodeling of stores, clubs and distribution centers, and the expansion of new services such as online grocery pickup.
Last week Amazon announced that it would add 100,000 full-time jobs over the next 18 months.
Hyundai Motor, South Korea's largest carmaker, says it will increase its investment in the US by 50 per cent over the next five years, to $3.1bn, as it seeks to capitalize on pledges by President-elect Donald Trump to boost the American economy.
The announcement comes just three days before the swearing-in of Mr Trump, who has threatened to slap hefty taxes on Mexican-built vehicles imported into the US.
Hyundai denied that the investment was a response to an intensifying Twitter assault by Mr Trump on global automakers for producing cars and investing in Mexico rather than in the US, but rather a reflection of the importance of the US market.
"We expect a boost in the US economy and increased demand for various models as president-elect Trump follows through on his promise to create 1m jobs in five years," Chung Jin-haeng, president of Hyundai Motor, told reporters in Seoul on Tuesday.
The company, and its affiliate Kia Motors — which together rank as the world's fifth-largest carmaker by sales — join a growing list of automakers to announce investments in the US in recent weeks.
Earlier this month, Japanese car group Toyota announced it would sink $10bn into the US market. That came hot on the heels of an announcement by Ford that it would cancel a planned $1.6bn plant in Mexico and instead build the facility in Michigan.
Americans stepped up their auto buying and holiday shopping in December, reflecting a boost in confidence after the election and a solid increase in hourly pay.
The Commerce Department says retail sales rose a seasonally adjusted 0.6 percent, following a small 0.2 percent gain in November.
Auto sales jumped 2.4 percent in December, the biggest gain since April. Gas station sales rose 2 percent, largely because of higher prices. Excluding autos and gas, retail sales overall were flat.
Still, online retailers in particular reported better sales. Consumer confidence has soared after the election, reaching the highest levels in nearly a decade. Small businesses are also more bullish. And Americans' paychecks are getting fatter: Average hourly pay rose 2.9 percent in December from a year earlier, the most in seven years.
Philadelphia Fed President Patrick Harker said Thursday the U.S. economy is displaying considerable strength and three interest rate hikes this year would be appropriate, in line with policymakers' previous expectations.
Harker, speaking on the economic outlook before the Main Line Chamber in Malvern, Pennsylvania, said 2017 is starting off on a "good foot" and inflation expectations are starting to rally. Still, he said monetary policy is a "limited set of tools" and growth policies are up to elected officials.
Harker is a voting member on the Federal Reserve's policy-setting committee.
In December, the Fed said it expects to raise rates three times this year, and approved the first rate hike in a year amid signs that the U.S. economy soon could shed its long period of sluggish growth.
Stocks and Treasury yields have skyrocketed since Donald Trump's Nov. 8 election victory amid the prospects of looser regulations in certain sectors, lower tax rates, and fiscal stimulus.
Harker said "confidence is strong, retail is solid" and the labor market is "more or less at full health." But he also said he is concerned with "prime age males" dropping out of the workforce and sees a "skill void" in the U.S. workforce.
U.S. jobless claims have fallen to a near 43-year low.
Get the market reaction here.
Aggressive fiscal and other policies could push U.S. economic growth to 4 percent in the short run, but would raise inflation risks unless coupled with strategies to boost productivity or expand the labor market, Chicago Federal Reserve President Charles Evans said on Thursday.
Evans did not mention the proposals of President-elect Donald Trump specifically, but said U.S. growth will remain stunted unless the labor force or productivity grow unexpectedly.
"The U.S. economy could experience a burst of 4 percent growth for a year," Evans said while speaking on a panel in Naples, Florida. But "it is not possible to just birth a large cohort of 25-year-olds."
Dr. Ben Carson, nominee for secretary of  Housing and Urban Development, sought to assure a Senate committee Thursday that there was a real "nexus" between health and housing, and that makes the neurosurgeon more than qualified for the job.
He would not, however, promise to avoid the nexus between the billions of dollars HUD pours into the real estate industry and the Trump real estate empire.
"Can you assure me that not a single taxpayer dollar that you give out will financially benefit the president elect or his family?" Sen. Elizabeth Warren, D-Mass, asked during the confirmation hearing before the Senate Banking Committee.
"I can assure you that the things that I do are driven by a sense of morals and values, and therefore I will absolutely not play favorites for anyone," he answered.
"Do I take that to mean that you might manage programs that might significantly benefit the president-elect?" continued Warren.
"You can take it to mean that I will manage things in a way that benefits the American people. That is going to be the goal. If there happens to be an extraordinarily good program that's working for millions of people and it turns out that someone that you're targeting is going to benefit, you know $10 from it, am I going to say no, the rest of you Americans can't have it? I think logic and common sense probably would be the best way," responded Carson.
The 10-year Treasury yield is settling down after a postelection pop, as the market looks to President-elect Donald Trump and Republicans in Congress to deliver on economic growth promises, St. Louis Federal Reserve President James Bullard told CNBC on Thursday.
Appearing on "Squawk Box," Bullard said there's no need to dramatically increase rates right now.
The 10-year yield spiked along with the stock market after Trump won the presidency on expectations that his tax cut and deregulation plans would boost the economy.
Bullard said he does not see Trump's agenda having much impact this year.
The Fed expects to raise interest rates three times this year, after policymakers increased the cost of borrowing money by a quarter-point in December. It was only the second hike in the past decade.
The current range for short-term rates stands at0.5 percent to 0.75 percent.
Bullard, who's not a voting member on the Fed's policymaking committee in 2017, said that increasing rates again because of higher economic growth would be good news.
The next Fed meeting is set for Jan. 31-Feb. 1. But investors have to wait until the March gathering for another news conference from Fed Chair Janet Yellen. At this point, the market isn't putting much odds on a hike at either meeting.
During the campaign, Trump made it clear he's no fan of Yellen — accusing her of being politically motivated to keep rates low to continue to support the economy to burnish President Barack Obama's legacy.
There's an expectation Trump may aim to shake up the central bank with a heavier emphasis on business experience among policymakers, to which Bullard said: "It's great to have a mix of people involved in the Fed."
"You don't want everyone to be a clone. You want a variety of backgrounds. I think we have that now. If we could get more of that, I think that would probably be a strength for the organization," he added.
U.S. President-elect Donald Trump's plans to slash taxes could threaten the country's triple-A credit rating over the medium term, the head of EMEA sovereign ratings at the Fitch agency said on Thursday.
"We do see increasing medium term pressures (on the U.S. rating)," Ed Parker said at the agency's annual credit outlook conference.
"Even before elections the U.S had highest level of government debt of any triple-A country. If we add on top of that Trump's plans to cut taxes by $6.2 trillion over the next 10 years that could add around 33 percent to U.S. government debt," he added.
The number of Americans filing for unemployment benefits rose less than expected last week and the underlying trend remained consistent with a tightening labor market that is starting to spur faster wage growth.
Initial claims for state unemployment benefits increased 10,000 to a seasonally adjusted 247,000 for the week ended Jan. 7, the Labor Department said on Thursday. Claims for the prior week were revised to show 2,000 more applications received than previously reported.
Last week's data included the New Year holiday. Claims tend to be volatile around this time of the year because of different timings of the various holidays. Claims have fluctuated in a 233,000-275,000 range since mid-November.
They have now been below 300,000, a threshold associated with a healthy labor market, for 97 consecutive weeks. That is the longest stretch since 1970, when the labor market was much smaller.
U.S. import prices rose in December, boosted by higher prices for petroleum products, but a strong dollar kept underlying imported inflation in subdued.
The Labor Department said on Thursday import prices increased 0.4 percent last month after an upwardly revised 0.2 percent decline in November.
Economists polled by Reuters had forecast import prices advancing 0.7 percent last month after a previously reported 0.3 percent drop. In the 12 months through December, import prices jumped 1.8 percent, the largest gain since March 2012, after edging up 0.1 percent in the 12 months through November.
Import prices are rising as the drag from lower oil prices fades. Oil prices have risen above $50 per barrel. But underlying import prices are likely to remain soft amid sustained dollar strength.
Democratic economist Larry Summers on Tuesday blasted an analysis published by top Donald Trump advisors touting the benefits of the president-elect's trade proposals.
The analysis was a policy paper authored by Wilbur Ross, the billionaire investor Trump picked for Commerce secretary, and Peter Navarro, the economics professor Trump chose to head the new White House National Trade Council. It was published late in the campaign against Democrat Hillary Clinton.
On CNBC's "Squawk Box," Summers accused Ross and Navarro of "repeating the oldest cliches about protectionism," calling their report "the economic equivalent of denying climate change or being for creationism."
The Ross-Navarro analysis pointed to $2.37 trillion in addition federal tax revenue from 2017 to 2026 as a result of Trump's trade, energy and regulatory reforms. But when coupled with proposed spending cuts, Trump's overall economic plan is revenue neutral, they wrote.
Summers, who was Treasury secretary in the Clinton administration and was an economic advisor to President Barack Obama, also took Trump to task over his proposals to spend about a trillion dollar on infrastructure. Summers called them "a giveaway to the contractors for the pipelines they're already going to build."
"There's [also] nothing that makes it be the most important infrastructure, which is fixing and maintaining" bridges, highways and airports, he added.
U.S. wholesale inventories in November rose slightly more than previously reported, posting their largest gain in two years and suggesting inventory investment would again support economic growth in the fourth quarter.
The Commerce Department said on Tuesday wholesale inventories rose 1.0 percent after slipping 0.1 percent in October. That was the largest increase since November 2014. The department reported last month that wholesale inventories rose 0.9 percent in November.
The component of wholesale inventories that goes into the calculation of gross domestic product - wholesale stocks excluding autos - increased 0.7 percent in November.
Inventory investment contributed half a percentage point to the economy's 3.5 percent annualized growth rate in the third quarter. Inventories had weighed on GDP growth since the second quarter of 2015.
A report last week showed stocks at manufacturers increased in November for a second straight month. Data on retail inventories due to be released on Friday could shed more light on the size of the boost to fourth-quarter GDP from inventory investment.
The Atlanta Federal Reserve currently forecasts GDP rising at a 2.9 percent pace in the fourth quarter.
In November, wholesale stocks of farm products surged 5.0 percent after a rise of 2.9 percent in October. Wholesale inventories of petroleum climbed 2.7 percent, while automobile stocks increased 3.2 percent.
Machinery inventories fell 0.2 percent in November.
Sales at wholesalers rose 0.4 percent in November after a gain of 1.1 percent in October. Sales were lifted by a 1.3 percent rise in sales of machinery as well as a 0.5 percent increase in sales of automobiles.
At November's sales pace it would take wholesalers 1.32 months to clear shelves, up from 1.31 months in October.
While that ratio has declined from the 1.37 months touched in January, which was the highest since March 2009, it remains relatively high. That suggests limited scope for a strong increase in wholesale inventory investment.
Monthly job openings — a gauge of the U.S. economy that's closely watched by Fed chair Janet Yellen — were little changed in November, the Bureau of Labor Statistics said Tuesday.
Monthly job openings were 5.5 million on the last business day of November, a rate of 3.7 percent, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics' Job Openings and Labor Turnover Summary (JOLTS).
Economist expected 5.56 million, according to Thomson Reuters consensus estimates. Job openings totaled 5.53 million in October.
In November, the total number of job openings in state and local government, excluding education, increased to more than 32,000. The number of private job openings was little changed but was more than 48,000 higher for government positions.
The bureau said the number of hires and separations was little changed at 5.2 million and 5 million, respectively. The bureau also said the layoffs and discharge rate was unchanged at 1.1 percent in November.
The report is a key barometer of economic conditions, measuring job postings in different sectors, and the number of hires and layoffs.
Separately, U.S. wholesale inventories in November rose slightly more than previously reported. The Commerce Department said Tuesday that wholesale inventories rose 1 percent after slipping 0.1 percent in October. That was the largest increase since November 2014.
A gauge of U.S. small business confidence rose to a 12-year high in December as optimism about the economy intensified among business owners following the November election, the National Federation of Independent Business said on Tuesday.
The group's index of small business confidence rose to 105.8, its highest since December 2004. It was up 7.4 points from the prior month, which was its biggest monthly increase since the 14.52 point increase in July 1980.
"The December results confirm the sharp increase that we reported immediately after the election," NFIB's chief economist Bill Dunkelberg said in a statement.
"In this month's report, we are also finding evidence that higher optimism is leading to increased business activity, such as capital investment," Dunkelberg added.
Consumer and business sentiment about the economy has risen sharply based on the notion the incoming administration of Republican President-elect Donald Trump and a Republican-controlled Congress would enact big tax cuts and infrastructure spending and loosen regulations, which would boost spending and investments.

"The NFIB membership appears to be disproportionately Republican, so it is possible that the data will start overstating strength, opposite the pattern during the Obama administration. In general, however, confidence measures have been moving up," said Jim O'Sullivan, chief U.S. economist at High Frequency Economics.
Meanwhile, independent business owners were reluctant to hire more workers in December despite the burst of post-election optimism, NFIB said.
Job creation edged up by 0.01 workers per firm and job openings fell 2 points, according to NFIB jobs data released last week. It showed small business owners have struggled to find qualified workers.
"That's good news for workers because they can command higher compensation, but many small business owners aren't yet confident enough to raise prices to offset the higher labor costs," Dunkelberg said.
President-elect Donald Trump says he will push China hard on trade — and many are wondering how Beijing will push back.
A number of Beijing watchers say leaders there are already brainstorming ways to reply if Trump does in fact push forward with trade agreements that make life harder for Chinese companies that export into the United States.
"China will try to have a disproportionate response. If the U.S. action is 'X,' China's reaction will be '2X,'" said James Keith, who leads the Asia practice of geopolitical consulting firm McLarty Associates and is the former deputy assistant Secretary of State for China.
With increased job opportunities and fatter paychecks, Americans may be better off then they have been in years, yet they are doing worse when it comes to paying off their loans every month.
Delinquencies rose in last year's third quarter, according to  the American Bankers Association. The ABA's Consumer Credit Delinquency Bulletin tracks 11 loan categories, including home equity lines of credit, auto loans and credit cards. The report defines a delinquency as a payment that's 30 days or more overdue.
"There have been a lot of new jobs created, wages have increased, and that has improved the financial position of consumers," said James Chessen, ABA's chief economist. Still, "it's important for consumers to remain cautious and maintain their discipline in keeping debt at levels they can comfortably manage."
Former Treasury Secretary Larry Summers believes tax reforms proposed by President-elect Donald Trump would increase inequality, put a burden on government programs, incite trade wars and ultimately harm the global economy.
"Unfortunately, the potential reforms identified by House Speaker Paul D. Ryan (R-Wis.) and President-elect Donald Trump appear likely to do significant damage to the tax base and to the U.S. and global economies," Summers wrote in a Washington Post op-ed.
In an exclusive conversation, Summers explains to CNBC why trying to reinvent corporate tax laws rather than focusing on fixing loopholes could be detrimental to the economy.
This interview, which was originally broadcast on CNBC's "Squawk Box," is only available to PRO members.
Boston Fed President Eric Rosengren on Monday called for the U.S. central bank to step up its pace of interest-rate increases from the once-a-year pattern it has pursued since 2015, warning of inflation risks if it does not.
"I expect that appropriate monetary policy will need to normalize more quickly than over the past year," Rosengren said in remarks prepared for delivery to the Connecticut Business and Industry Association.
At 4.7 percent, unemployment is now at a level that is sustainable over the long-run, he said, and inflation is on track to reach the Fed's 2-percent target by the end of this year.
"Without further gradual increases in interest rates, one might be concerned that the unemployment rate could drift below its long-run sustainable level — and as a result, inflation could eventually exceed the Fed's 2 percent target," he said. "The stance of monetary policy will need to adjust — to prevent the economy from dramatically overshooting on both elements of the dual mandate, which would place the economic recovery at risk."
Rosengren, who does not vote on the Fed's policy-setting committee this year, was long considered a dove, supporting low rates to boost employment even at the risk of some inflation. Over the past year he has adjusted his stance to be more hawkish, calling for rate hikes even as the Fed kept policy on hold for most of the year. On Monday, he explained that shift as a reaction to the strengthening economic data.
The Fed raised interest rates last month by a quarter of a point and policymakers signaled they expect to raise rates three more times in 2017.
That pace, which is faster than markets currently expect, "seems reasonable if we continue to see real GDP growing faster than the so-called 'potential' rate," Rosengren said.
While the growth outlook does not require the Fed to raise rates at every Fed policy-setting meeting, as it did during the last tightening cycle from 2004 to 2006, the Fed does need to reduce monetary policy accommodation, he said.
"My own forecast is that we will achieve both elements of the dual mandate by the end of 2017 — and as a result, I believe that a still gradual but somewhat more regular increase in the federal funds rate will be warranted."
As investors await the Dow Jones 20,000 with baited breath, one widely followed chart watcher believes the current market rally is actually on its last legs.
On Friday, blue chip shares in the Dow Industrial Average flirted with the psychologically charged 20,000 level, which have largely been driven higher by anticipation over President-elect Donald Trump's  business-friendly policies. Yet a few observers think the party is nearly over, and the punch bowl is about to run dry.
"Risk has been priced out of the market," said Sven Henrich of NorthmanTrader.com on CNBC's "Futures Now." Henrich, who is known online as the Northman Trader, said that despite the abundance of optimism on the part of investors, technical indicators could be pointing to some near-term pain.
According to the Northman's chartwork, every time the S&P 500 Index has hit new highs, it eventually retreats back towards its weekly 25-day moving average line, which would translate to a 4 percent pullback from current levels. The S&P 500 has rallied 6 percent since the election, and hit an intraday record high on Friday.
"I would expect that at some point there would be a buying opportunity for people who may want to invest in this market," said Henrich. "But if this line breaks, we may see significantly more downside that we've seen in previous corrections as well."

What's more, Henrich also believes that the S&P 500 has continued to trade in a "bearish wedge pattern" that began just after the end of the last recession. The wedge pattern Henrich speaks of consists of two trend lines: One that runs along the S&P's highs and a second that runs along its lows, that look to meet sometime in 2017. It is at that point that Henrich believes the rally will have run its course, and a downside will soon follow.

On a fundamental basis, the Northman Trader is troubled by "record debt levels" that the global governments have incurred.
"In 2016, the U.S. government ran a deficit of over $600 billion," explained Henrich." "If we now add tax cuts and stimulus spending, you're either going to have to cut a significant amount of programs somewhere, or you're going to end up with an even larger deficit."
Nonfarm payrolls grew by 156,000 jobs in December a number that missed expectations but was overshadowed by a sharp gain in wages.
Headline unemployment edged higher to 4.7 percent, according to a report Friday from the Bureau of Labor Statistics. Economists had been expecting payrolls growth of 178,000. A broader measure of unemployment that counts discouraged workers and those working part-time for economic reasons edged to 9.2 percent, a fresh 2016 low and the best since April 2008.
The big story of the report, though, may be a sharp gain in earnings. Average hourly wages jumped 10 cents to $26, representing a 2.9 percent annualized gain. That comes a month after wages showed a modest decline. The average work week was unchanged at 34.3 hours.
Get the market reaction here.
The national unemployment rate rose a 0.1 point in December, to 4.7 percent, the Labor Department announced Friday. That's a slight increase, but relying on that one headline number as an indicator of the economy's general direction ignores important information just below the surface.
Every month on "Jobs Friday," the Bureau of Labor Statistics releases a slew of data, each of which provides its own perspective on the nation's employment situation. Economists look past the official unemployment rate — that 4.7 percent figure, also known as the "U-3" — to other metrics that give their own nuanced view of the jobs in the country.
One of those figures is called the U-6 rate, which has a broader definition of unemployment than the U-3 does. In December, that number fell 0.1 point, to 9.2 percent.
The U.S. trade deficit in November rose to the highest level in nine months. Imports of oil and other foreign goods increased, while American exports fell for a second month.
The Commerce Department says the trade deficit jumped 6.8 percent to $45.2 billion, the largest imbalance since February. Exports edged down 0.2 percent to $122.4 billion, reflecting lower overseas sales of American-made airplanes, autos and farm products. Imports rose 1.1 percent to $231.1 billion, led by a 7.6 percent jump in oil.
President-elect Donald Trump made America's large trade deficits a central part of his campaign. He promised to impose high tariffs on countries such as China and Mexico unless they reformed what Trump charged were unfair trading practices that have cost millions of American jobs.
If you've been following President-elect Donald Trump's Twitter feed, you might think the U.S. auto industry is rapidly shedding jobs by sending them to Mexico.
In fact, the American auto industry has been adding U.S. jobs faster than any major sector tracked by the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics.
Since the Obama administration took office in January 2009, the U.S. payrolls of car, truck and vehicle parts makers have expanded by nearly 35 percent — triple the pace of gains for the all private industry, according the latest BLS data reported on Friday.
That performance is better than all of the major industry categories tracked by the BLS.
The latest data are the last available before President Barack Obama leaves office after eight years presiding over the economic recovery from the biggest wave of jobs losses since the Great Depression. In the 12 months before he took office, U.S. automakers and parts suppliers shed more than 250,0000 jobs — more than a quarter of the entire industry workforce.
Since then, though auto-industry employment is still well below the peak of 1.3 million in June 2000, the sector has recovered nearly all of the jobs lost during the Great Recession, in part, because of the Obama administration's financial bailout of U.S. automakers.
Job creation edged lower in September as the labor market showed there still may be room to run.
Nonfarm payrolls increased 156,000 for the month and the unemployment rate ticked up to 5 percent, the Bureau of Labor Statistics reported Friday. Economists surveyed by Reuters had expected 176,000 new jobs and the jobless rate to hold at 4.9 percent. The total was a decline from the upwardly revised 167,000 jobs in August (compared with the original number of 151,000).
"This is within the broad range of expectations," said Mark Hamrick, senior economic analyst at Bankrate.com. "The main point is, slow and steady does win the race for this recovery, which began in the summer of 2009."
Average hourly wages pushed higher, rising 6 cents to an annualized rate of 2.6 percent. The average work week also inched up one-tenth to 34.4 hours.
The national unemployment rate rose slightly to 5 percent in September, the Labor Department reported Friday. But relying on that one headline number as an indicator of the economy's direction leaves a lot of important information below the surface.
Every month on "Big Jobs Friday," the Bureau of Labor Statistics releases a boatload of data, each point of which provides its own unique perspective on a facet of the nation's employment situation. Economists look past the official unemployment rate — that 5 percent figure, which is known as the "U-3" rate — to other metrics that provide their own nuanced views of the state of jobs.
One of those figures is called the U-6 rate, which has a broader definition of what unemployment means. That figure remained unchanged at 9.7 percent in September.
Weak investment performance and insufficient contributions will cause total unfunded liabilities for U.S. state public pensions to balloon by 40 percent to $1.75 trillion through fiscal 2017, Moody's Investors Service said in a report on Thursday.
The report comes amid increasing concern over America's ability to pay promised retirement benefits to public employees without draining state budgets.
It has been a tough year for the funds, which earned a median 0.52 percent on investments in fiscal 2016 versus their average assumed return rate of 7.5 percent, Moody's said.
In fiscal 2015, aggregate adjusted net pension liabilities stood at $1.25 trillion.
Half of U.S. states did not put enough money into their retirement systems in 2015 to curb the growth of unfunded liabilities. That held true even when states met the contribution levels their actuaries told them were necessary, Moody's found.
The nation's 100 largest public pensions were funded just below 70 percent as of June 30, according to a separate study on Thursday by consulting firm Milliman. That study found investment returns to be 1.31 percent and a funding deficit of $1.38 trillion.
Yet well-known problem spots - Illinois, New Jersey, Connecticut and Kentucky - are atypical, according to the Center for Retirement Research at Boston College.
Even when including debt and retiree healthcare costs, "the outlook at the state and local level is extremely heterogeneous," the researchers wrote in a brief this week. "A small minority face dire circumstances, but many jurisdictions appear to have their costs under control."
U.S. employment growth likely picked up in September, putting pressure on the Federal Reserve to raise interest rates and signaling that steam could be building in the economy ahead of America's presidential election.
Nonfarm payrolls are expected to have risen by 175,000 last month from 151,000 in August, according to a Reuters survey of economists.
That would be around the average monthly job growth so far this year, which Fed Chair Janet Yellen said last month was "unsustainable" and could over time cause the economy to overheat. Yellen has said the economy needs to create just under 100,000 jobs a month to keep up with population growth.
The Labor Department will release its employment report on Friday at 8:30 a.m ET and the data is expected to show the jobless rate holding steady at 4.9 percent.
Before the market gets a glimpse at the latest government jobs data each month, payroll management company ADP gives it a preview with its own monthly employment report. The metric is closely followed by the market, but the two numbers often differ by thousands of jobs.
So how useful is the ADP report for predicting the Bureau of Labor Statistics figures each month? Over the long term, it's clear that the two indicators tend to fall in line, but over the short term, it's hard to look at the ADP National Employment Report figure and know exactly what's coming in the official report.
The difference between the number of new jobs reported by ADP every month and the BLS private nonfarm jobs number that comes two days later is greater than 40,000 about half the time, according to a CNBC analysis of the figures since November 2012. That means that the disappointing 154,000 figure reported Wednesday by ADP for September could easily be a healthier number near 200,000 or an anemic one closer to 100,000.
From Wal-Mart to the Federal Reserve to the International Monetary Fund, there are new signs the U.S. economy is on the wrong track, a senior economic advisor to the Donald Trump  campaign told CNBC on Thursday.
To make his point, David Malpass cited conservative news from Wal-Mart that broke just before his appearance on "Squawk Box."
The giant retailer on Thursday morning reiterated its guidance for the current fiscal year, and said there would be fewer store openings than originally planned and a significantly slower store-opening pace in fiscal 2018. It also predicted flat earnings next year.
"The election presents a choice. Do you want the current policies, which Wal-Mart has given us a very clear forecast [of] ... or do you want some different for the U.S.?" asked Malpass,   president of economic and market research firm Encima Global.
Malpass accuses Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton of advocating the status quo from the failed years of President Barack Obama  that's produced just 2 percent economic growth.
"Trump is saying that's 'definitely not good enough for workers in America, for small business, for minorities. This system that they're doing is simply failing.' We have to have massive change," Malpass said.
As more ammunition for his argument, Malpass pointed to the Fed's reduction in projected full-year gross domestic product to 1.8 percent, following its September policy meeting, at which central bankers held interest rates steady.
Malpass said the IMF's new forecast for growth this week add to the urgent need for the GOP presidential nominee's ideas to boost the economy. "That's the whole point of the campaign — to change taxes [and] regulatory policy."
On Tuesday, the IMF said advanced economies, including the U.S., will slow this year to 1.6 percent growth, compared with 2.1 percent last year and the group's July forecast of 1.8 percent.
"Think of all the benefits that come from faster growth," Malpass said. "As you grow faster, Wal-Mart does better, everyone does better."
America's "divorce" from the rest of the world is doing the country's economy a favor, economists Paul Hickey and Rob Martin told CNBC on Thursday.
"It's not that there aren't leakages, it's not that it doesn't matter what happens in the rest of the world," but after China's market turbulence and the European debt crisis, the U.S. focusing within engenders some major benefits, said Martin, senior U.S. economist at Barclays.
Martin told "Squawk Box" that with jobs growing steadily with over 200,000 added per month and the U.S. hitting record highs at 1.8 million jobs created in 2016, the economy is good without much influence from overseas.
Hickey, co-founder of Bespoke Investment Group, said events like Brexit and Deutsche Bank's recent stock volatility, occurring in supposedly "safe" developed markets, causes a flow of capital into more stable markets like the United States.
"We have all the problems outside of the U.S., we have slow, steady growth in the U.S., and that's causing a premium on U.S. assets," he added.
Anticipation is building ahead of a possible Fed interest rate hike in December, but Martin said some members of the Federal Open Market Committee have proven exceedingly dovish, avoiding a rate hike until they see obvious harm to the U.S. economic system.
Hickey said investors are also anticipating "seeing stronger economic data, stronger economic growth, and stronger earnings data," causing a shift into more "growth-orientated" sectors of the market, like technology.
But Martin said the United States "could use some certainty in policy and a little bit more steadiness at the helm."
Hurricane Matthew's immediate effect on fuel markets is expected to be limited, but gasoline prices could whipsaw in the coming weeks as the storm causes gyrations in supply and demand in the Southeast.
"Hurricane activity can have a mixed impact on supply and demand; while supply disruptions can be a bullish influence, the dent to demand caused by inclement weather can serve to offset this," ClipperData's director of commodity research, Matt Smith, told CNBC.
Gasoline prices are rising marginally in Florida, and many drivers in the Southeast showed up at the pump in recent days to find stations out of fuel. About 1.5 million people were fleeing south Atlantic coastal areas on Thursday as the storm, which some experts believe could be the most devastating to hit Florida in a decade, closed in.


The number of Americans filing for unemployment benefits unexpectedly fell last week to near a 43-year low, an indication of firmness in the labor market which may support an interest rate increase by the U.S. Federal Reserve this year.
Initial claims for state unemployment benefits declined 5,000 to a seasonally adjusted 249,000 for the week ended Oct. 1, the Labor Department said on Thursday.
Economists polled by Reuters had forecast first-time applications for jobless benefits rising to 257,000 in the latest week.
First-time claims were the lowest since April, when initial applications for aid were at levels not seen since November 1973.
The number of announced layoffs by U.S.-based companies rose in September to the highest level in two months, global outplacement consultancy Challenger, Gray & Christmas reported Thursday.
Employers announced plans to cut 44,324 jobs last month, a 38 percent increase from August, when total job cuts of 32,2188 fell to lowest total since May.
September's was the highest monthly total since July, when 45,346 layoffs were announced, Challenger said. Despite the monthly rise, September's total was 25 percent below the announced job cuts a year ago.
The biggest job cutter last month was the education sector, rising by 363 percent to 8,671. Fueling the cuts was the collapse of for-profit college ITT Technical Institute, which sustained 8,000 job losses.
Cuts in the computer industry in September totaled 4,152 jobs. The sector's year-to-date layoffs were second only to the energy sector, which announced 98,733 cuts for the nine-month period.
"This year could be particularly volatile in the fourth quarter, with employers holding off on significant moves until they see election results. It's not simply who wins the White House, but there are Senate races and countless ballot initiatives on issues like minimum wages that will influence business strategies going forward," said John Challenger, chief executive officer of Challenger, Gray & Christmas.
The retail sector was hit with 7,296 cuts, but will be offset by seasonal hiring, which promises 230,000 new jobs looking forward to December's holiday season.
The holiday season will also help in the area of transportation and warehouse jobs as more people do their holiday shopping online. UPS, Macy's, and Target lead this season's announced hiring plans.
The announced job cuts in September brought the total for the year to 435,612 — 12 percent below the same nine-month period last year.
Evidence that the so-called natural rate of interest has fallen to low levels could mean the economy is stuck in a low-growth rut that could prove hard to escape, Federal Reserve Vice Chair Stanley Fischer said on Wednesday.
Speaking to a central banking seminar in New York, the Fed's second-in-command said he was concerned that the changes in world savings and investment patterns that may have driven down the natural rate could "prove to be quite persistent...We could be stuck in a new longer-run equilibrium characterized by sluggish growth."
As a result, he said, central bankers may face a future where the short-term interest rates set by policymakers never get far above zero, and the unconventional tools used during the financial crisis become a "recurrent" fact of life.
"Ultralow interest rates may reflect more than just cyclical forces," Fischer said, but "be yet another indication that the economy's growth potential may have dimmed considerably."
Fischer's remarks did not address current Fed policy or interest rate plans.
Companies in September created jobs at the slowest pace in six months as the labor market showed further signs of tightening, according to a report Wednesday from ADP and Moody's Analytics.
Private payrolls increased by 154,000 for the month, the lowest total since April and below the 2016 average of 181,000. The total also missed expectations of 166,000 from economists surveyed by Reuters, and was below the downwardly revised 175,000 in August.
Job creation again skewed toward the services sector, which added 151,000 to just 3,000 for goods-producing industries. Professional and business services led the way with 45,000 new positions while trade, transportation and utilities contributed 15,000 and construction and financial activities added 11,000 apiece.
The manufacturing sector continued its struggles, losing 6,000 jobs for the month.
Franchise positions, which include restaurants, auto parts and dealers, grocery stores, business services, hotels and real estate, contributed 26,000 to the total.
The U.S. economy's sub-par economic growth has exacerbated income gaps between the country's racial groups, a top Federal Reserve official said on Wednesday, adding that better education for Native Americans in particular would boost productivity and output.
In a brief speech that did not mention interest rates, Minneapolis Fed President Neel Kashkari tied what he called his personal belief that education is society's "great equalizer" with the central bank's desire for stronger economic growth.
"Growth since the Great Recession has been steady but stubbornly slow, leaving output well below expectations (and has) contributed to exacerbating the persistent and wide gaps in income among our country's racial and ethnic groups," Kashkari, who has a vote on policy next year, said in prepared remarks.
"Education has the potential to address two big issues confronting the nation, as well as Indian Country: economic growth and economic inequality," he added at a workshop on early childhood development in Indian Country.
Other Fed officials in recent years have not shied away from discussing the big income and wealth gaps in the economy, which grew at a weak 1.4 percent rate in the second quarter.
Kashkari cited Minnesota education data showing that 44 percent of Native American children "arrive at kindergarten fully ready to learn," compared to 57 percent of blacks and 63 percent of whites.
The Federal Reserve has been reluctant to raise interest rates for only the second time in a decade, not because of political bias but because the economy isn't ready, former Clinton Treasury Secretary Larry Summers told CNBC on Wednesday.
Summers was responding to GOP presidential nominee Donald Trump's claims that Fed Chair Janet Yellen is keeping rates steady to burnish the legacy of President Barack Obama by not jolting the economy.
"The Fed is completely honest [and] totally trying to do the right thing," Summers said on "Squawk Box." "Any suggestion that they're behaving politically of the kind we've seen in the campaign, I think, is ludicrous."
Yellen is the "least political person" in Washington, he added. "The political thing to do isn't to be calling for increases in rates."
The Fed chief has recently been preparing investors for the possibility of a rate hike, depending on economic data. Central bankers meet again in November and December. The futures market puts the odds of a move at 13.4 percent in November and 63 percent in December.
Summers believes the Fed should continue to stand pat. "I look at the economy, and unemployment is below target and inflation is below target as well. So that doesn't seem like the time to be stepping on the brakes."
Summers dismissed the notion that the Fed "missed its window" earlier this year to hike rates. "We haven't had a moment when inflation expectations have been anywhere near 2 percent as captured in the market."
Economic activity in the services sector grew in September for the 80th consecutive month, according to data from the Institute for Supply Management on Wednesday.
The institute's non-manufacturing index jumped to 57.1 in September from 51.4 a month earlier. Any reading above 50 signals expansion.
Economist polled by Reuters expected the ISM non-manufacturing index to hit 53.
These numbers represents continued growth in the non-manufacturing sector at a faster rate. (Click here for market reaction.)
Business activity also increased in September to 60.3 percent, 8.5 percentage points higher than August.  And the employment index increased by 6.5 percentage points than the prior month.
A separate report showed U.S. factory orders rose just 0.2 percent in August, with the investment category up for the third month.
U.S. companies are parking trillions in cash overseas, with little progress from policymakers trying to bring all that money home.
Now, a new proposal aims not only to bring that money back to domestic shores, but also to give job creation a nudge — 307,000 in two years, if the most optimistic projections come true.
S&P Global entered the conversation Wednesday, putting forth a plan that would pull home what some estimates have pegged at $2.5 trillion in U.S. corporate cash stored abroad. That's on top of the $1.9 trillion stockpiled domestically.
CEOs are locked in a stalemate with Washington lawmakers over what tax rate the money should carry if it is brought to the country with the highest nominal corporate levy in the developed world.
Fears in the European banking community last week created something of a tantrum in U.S. bond markets, driving yields down and taking mortgage rates along with them.
As a result, mortgage application volume rose 2.9 percent on seasonally adjusted basis for the week from the previous week, according to the Mortgage Bankers Association.
The volume gains were driven entirely by applications to refinance home loans, which rose 5 percent from the previous week, seasonally adjusted. Refinances are highly rate-sensitive, and even though rates have been hovering near record lows for months, the drop last week was clearly enough to get some borrowers off the fence and into a new loan.
The jury is still out on how the presidential candidates will fare during the next debate, on Oct. 9, in the eyes of a key voter constituency: the small-business sector. The group that is composed of 28 million business owners is a major voting block in the upcoming election.
Yet if the last presidential debate is any guide, the Republican ticket has an advantage. According to an exclusive nationwide poll with Manta, a social network for small businesses, Trump won the first debate in the eyes of small businesses on Main Street.
Manta's survey, which polled a diverse group of 834 small-business owners nationwide between Sept. 26 and Sept. 28 revealed that Republican candidate and business mogul Donald Trump was the winner, with 58.7 percent. Democratic candidate Hillary Clinton garnered 41.3 percent of their vote.
The U.S.trade deficit rose more than expected in August as a rise in imports offset higher exports.
The Commerce Department said on Wednesday the trade gap widened 3 percent to $40.73 billion.
Imports hit their highest level since September 2015, while exports were the highest since July of last  year.
The July trade deficit was revised to  $39.55 billion from a previous $39.47 billion.
Economists polled by Reuters had forecast the trade gap decreasing to $39.3 billion in August.
When adjusted for inflation, the deficit fell to $57.48 billion from a revised $58.23 billion in July.
Exports have begun to slowly shake off the lingering effects of the dollar's strength for much of the past two years against the currencies of the United States' major trading  partners.
Exports of goods and services edged up 0.8 percent to $187.85 billion in August. Exports to China rose 2.6 percent and were up 1.2 percent to the European Union. Exports to the United Kingdom rose 2.4 percent.
Imports of goods and services increased 1.2 percent to $228.58 billion in August.
Oil prices averaged $39.38 per barrel in August, down 20.2 percent from a  year ago.
Imports from China increased 9.5 percent,   while the politically sensitive U.S.-China trade deficit widened 11.6 percent to $33.85 billion  in August.
Richmond Federal Reserve President Jeffrey Lacker on Tuesday said there was a strong case for raising interest rates, arguing that borrowing costs might need to rise significantly to keep inflation under control.
The Fed last raised its benchmark federal funds rate in December and Lacker, who is not a voting member of the Fed's rate-setting committee this year but participates in its discussions, has been pressing in recent months for further hikes.
"Pre-emptive increases in the federal funds rate are likely to play a critical role in maintaining the stability of inflation," Lacker said in prepared remarks at a conference on the economic outlook.
The Fed's current target range for the rate is between 0.25 percent and 0.5 percent and most policymakers expect to raise the range by a quarter point before the end of 2016.
But Lacker argued economic history suggests the rate should be about 1.5 percentage point higher than its current level given the current rates of joblessness and inflation.
"This is the basis for the strong case I have articulated for raising our interest rate above its current low level," he said.
Market expert Bob Doll believes we are currently in a "multiyear bottoming process for rates," thanks to global market volatility as U.S. markets come out of a relatively stagnant quarter despite shortcomings in the financial sector.
The senior portfolio manager and chief equity strategist of Nuveen Asset Management told CNBC's "Squawk Box" that deflation in Japan and parts of Europe is one reason the Federal Reserve remains hesitant to raise interest rates.
The worry stems from the possibility, Doll said, that a rate hike will trigger a dollar rally and commodity sell-off, causing market instability that could reverberate worldwide.
"We're held hostage, but only to a slight degree," Doll said.
Still, Doll contended, the Fed will "gingerly move forward" while keeping an eye on the variables that could cause any major waves.
One of the most important factors for overall growth, Doll said, is maintaining global trade, because growth enables investors to "own cheaper, more cyclically oriented" stocks.
"I think the valuation rubber band has been stretched very significantly," the strategist said, suggesting that if the United States can't maintain growth, it won't be long until it snaps.
Low-income shoppers are feeling better about their finances and are seen fueling a rise in holiday spending this year, a new study has found.
Households with an annual income of less than $50,000 plan to spend $837 on gifts, travel and entertainment this Christmas, up 23 percent from 2015, according to PwC. While households earning more than that amount will shell out substantially more — an average $1,388 — that figure would represent just 4 percent growth.
The wealthiest shoppers plan to rein in their spending, with those households earning $150,000 or more saying they'll spend $1,812. That would be a 3 percent dip compared with last year.
Households earning between $100,000 and $149,999 are seen tightening their grip even more, and are planning to shell out $1,394 — down 10 percent from last year.
Overall, PwC expects holiday spending to rise 10 percent this year, to $1,121 per household. The firm based its results on a survey of more than 2,100 consumers.
"There's a willingness to spend," Steve Barr, leader of PwC's U.S. retail and consumer practice, told CNBC.
PwC's findings come amid ongoing debate about the health of the low-end consumer, who has been sending mixed signals to retailers. While Wal-Mart's U.S. division recorded its greatest comparable sales gain in four years during the second quarter, trends at the major dollar store chains slowed.
A drop in fuel prices, hikes in the minimum wage and a lower unemployment rate are all padding these shoppers' wallets. However, they're also spending more on health care and housing.
Meanwhile, wealthy shoppers have been reluctant to spend amid concerns about the global economy. They've also been spending more of their discretionary dollars on travel and entertainment as opposed to physical goods, research has found.
Overall, shoppers plan to spend 9 percent more on travel and entertainment this holiday, for an average $466, according to PwC. That compares with an anticipated 11 percent lift in spending on gifts, at $655.
Yet with digital sales expected to rise 25 percent, store-based retailers will "struggle" to capture the uptick in consumer spending, Barr said. A separate PwC study found that 90 percent of consumers identified as Amazon shoppers; among that group, 40 percent said they are shopping less frequently at retail stores.
"That incremental spend is going to other places," Barr said.
PwC's forecast is well above projections from firms including Deloitte and RetailNext, which predict spending will increase somewhere between 3 percent and 4 percent. Those firms do not include travel and entertainment in their forecasts.
Borrowing by small U.S. firms rose in August, in part because the month had more business days than July, and the percentage of firms late on repaying existing loans also increased, data released on Tuesday showed.
The Thomson Reuters/PayNet Small Business Lending Index rose to 133.7 in August from an upwardly revised 123.1 in July, which had three fewer working days. Borrowing by companies in most industries, except construction and recreation, fell.
"It's malaise, rather than freefall," said Bill Phelan, PayNet's president.
Companies also struggled to pay back existing debts, PayNet data showed. Loans more than 30 days past due rose in August to 1.63 percent, the fifth straight monthly increase and the highest delinquency rate since December 2012.
The figures come as the Federal Reserve mulls the timing of its next rate hike. Higher interest rates tend to slow economic growth. Movements in the index typically correlate with movements in gross domestic product growth a quarter or two ahead.
The U.S. economy grew an estimated 1.4 percent in the second quarter, though many economists believe that rate improved in the third quarter.
Small business borrowing is a key barometer of growth because small companies tend to do much of the hiring that drives economic gains.
PayNet collects real-time loan information such as originations and delinquencies from more than 325 leading U.S. lenders.
U.S. construction spending fell in August for the second straight month to its lowest level in eight months, an unexpected drop driven by weakness across public and private sectors.
The successive declines suggest home building might not help economic growth in the third quarter.
The Commerce Department said on Monday construction spending dropped 0.7 percent in August to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of $1.142 trillion, the lowest since December 2015. Economists had expected outlays to rise 0.2 percent.
For America's wealthiest families, the presidential campaign presents a stark choice: A big tax increase if Hillary Clinton  wins the election — or a big tax cut if Donald Trump wins.
For everyone else? Right now, neither candidate is proposing major tax changes.
Tax policy is one of the issues on which the two nominees differ most. Their approaches are likely to draw new attention in the wake of a New York Times report that Trump's nearly $916 million in losses in 1995, according to tax records the paper received anonymously, means he may not have paid federal income taxes for as many as 18 years.
On trade, Clinton has backed off her previous support for free trade agreements and, like Trump, now opposes the Trans-Pacific Partnership, a pact involving the U.S. and 11 other nations.
Trump has said he will spend twice as much on building and repairing roads, airports and other infrastructure as Clinton would.
On trade and infrastructure spending, Trump has taken a populist approach that jettisons Republican orthodoxy. But on taxes, his proposed tax cuts for individuals and businesses are more in line with previous Republican candidates and elected officials. After two previous tries, he provided more details on his tax plans in a speech in New York last week — although he left one key component unclear.
Clinton, for her part, is proposing to raise taxes for the wealthiest households to pay for traditional Democratic proposals such as expanding access to higher education.
"Here, at least, they fall into very much traditional Democratic and Republican proposals," said William Gale, co-director of the Tax Policy Center, a joint project of the Brookings Institution and Urban Institute.
On taxes, the two candidates remain far apart. Here are summaries of their proposals:
___
The Federal Reserve can raise interest rates without threatening the U.S. economic recovery, a top Federal Reserve policymaker said on Tuesday, saying the central bank risks doing more harm by continued inaction.
"It is getting harder and harder to justify interest rates being so incredibly low given where the U.S. economy is and where it is going," San Francisco Federal Reserve Bank President John Williams said in an interview at his bank's headquarters.
"I would support an interest rate increase," he said. "I think that the economy can handle that. I don't think that would stall, slow or derail the economic expansion."
The U.S. central bank left rates steady at its policy meeting last week, but three policymakers dissented. Fed Chair Janet Yellen herself signaled that a hike could come by the end of the year, but said for now the economy still has "a little more room to run."
U.S. unemployment stands at 4.9 percent, near what many Fed officials believe represents a fully employed economy. While a further drop to perhaps 4.5 percent would deliver a healthy boost to inflation, anything lower risks overheating the economy, which could force the Fed to jack up rates and tip the economy into recession, Williams said.
Mortgage borrowers are clearly getting used to near-record low interest rates. A drop in rates last week did nothing to juice refinances, which are usually very rate-sensitive.
Total mortgage application volume decreased 0.7 percent on a seasonally adjusted basis for the week from the previous week, according to the Mortgage Bankers Association.
Refinance volume, which now accounts for 62.7 percent of all applications, fell 2 percent from the previous week, seasonally adjusted, but were up 34 percent from a year ago, when mortgage rates were higher. Mortgage applications to purchase a home increased 1 percent for the week and were 10 percent higher than the same week one year ago.
A key measure of consumers' attitudes increased in September, to its highest level since the recession.
The Consumer Confidence Index hit 104.1 in September, The Conference Board said on Tuesday. Economists expected the Consumer Confidence Index to hit 99.0 in September, down from August's revised reading of 101.8, according to Thomson Reuters consensus estimate.
U.S. home price gains slowed slightly in July from the previous month, with the tentative forecast of a federal interest rate hike in December confirming continued expansion in the housing sector.
The S&P CoreLogic Case-Shiller 20-City Composite index rose 5.0 percent year-over-year, versus expectations for an increase of 5.1 percent.
"Both the housing sector and the economy continue to expand with home prices continuing to rise at about a 5 percent annual rate," David M. Blitzer, managing director and chairman of the Index Committee at S&P Dow Jones Indices, said in a statement.
Topping the list of gainers was Portland, Oregon, with price appreciation of 12.4 percent. Seattle followed with an 11.2 percent increase, and Denver placed third with a 9.4 percent gain.
The S&P/Case-Shiller U.S. National Home Price Index, which measures all nine U.S. census divisions, was also up 5.1 percent in June from 5.0 percent the previous year.
As the first presidential debate kicks off Monday night, uncertainty is more prevalent than ever on Main Street.
Recent data from the National Federation of Independent Business (NFIB) found political uncertainty at an all-time high for the month of August, while separate data from small-business networking platform Manta found more than one-third of small-business owners say they're still undecided about who to vote for in November.
Part of the reason may be that candidates Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump aren't speaking in detail to issues small-business owners care most about, according to small-business advocates.
Taxes and the regulatory environment are two of Main Street's biggest concerns, according to the NFIB. The conservative lobbying group points out that complying with regulations costs about $11,000 per worker each year for businesses with fewer than 50 employees — nearly 30 percent higher than the cost for larger businesses.
The average price of gasoline in the U.S. has risen four cents over the past two weeks to $2.25 a gallon for regular grade.
Industry analyst Trilby Lundberg said Sunday that retailers and refiners have upped their prices in response to a rise in the cost of crude oil.
Still, the average price per gallon is a dime less than it was a year ago.
The Lundberg Survey found the average price of midgrade gasoline was $2.53 a gallon while premium was $2.74 a gallon.
The average price for diesel in Friday's survey was $2.40 a gallon.
The highest average price for regular gas in the contiguous U.S. was $2.80 in San Francisco. The lowest was $1.91 in Baton Rouge, Louisiana.
A program to encourage student-loan borrowers to go into public service may come with a hefty price tag.
If you take out a federal student loan, you may qualify for public service loan forgiveness. (If you borrow from a private lender, you are not eligible for the program.) Some qualified borrowers will be able to use this benefit starting next year. The ultimate cost of the program is difficult to determine.
Since 2012, borrowers could certify with the Department of Education that their employment would qualify them for public service loan forgiveness. The number of borrowers who have been certified by the department has grown rapidly, to 431,853, as of June 30, 2016 (see chart below).
Manufacturing activity fell more than expected in September, amid the weakest improvement in business conditions since June.
The September "flash," or preliminary, manufacturing Purchasing Managers Index came in at 51.4. September PMI had been expected at 51.9, down from 52 in the previous month. (A reading above 50 indicates expansion in the sector.)
"September's survey data points to a sustained upturn in manufacturing production, although growth remains subdued overall and only slightly faster than seen through the first half of 2016," Tim Moore, senior economist at IHS Markit said, said in a statement. "However, manufacturers reported firmer job hiring than one month previously and input price inflation nudged upwards, meaning that the weaker headline PMI figure is unlikely to dampen expectations that the Fed will tighten policy at the end of the year."
Boston Fed President Eric Rosengren said on Friday that he believed interest rates should be raised gradually now and warned that a fall in the unemployment rate below its sustainable level could derail economic recovery in the United States.
"By 2019, I expect the unemployment rate to have declined below 4.5 percent. While I have a long track record of advocating for policy that supports robust labor market conditions, that is below the rate that I believe is sustainable in the long run," Rosengren said in a statement.
Rosengren dissented at this week's Federal Reserve rate setting meeting that left interest rates unchanged. He and tw
The Federal Reserve's holding pattern on interest rates should signal one thing to investors: start brushing up on astrophysics if you want to understand why the world's economy might be approaching a cosmic conclusion.
Like a massive star exploding into a supernova, debt is rising at a blistering pace. There is currently more than $230 trillion in global debt—that's three times the amount of debt the world held during the credit crisis.
Central bank intervention has fueled this explosion in debt, including historic levels of quantitative easing, zero interest rate policies and the adoption of negative rates. In the U.S. alone, there's more than $63 trillion in combined public and private debt. In stark contrast, there are only $3.8 trillion total dollars in circulation, and each of these dollars has been lent and borrowed more than 16 times. The amount of leverage continues to climb.
At the end of every supernova comes a black hole. Black holes have such a strong gravitational effect that nothing can escape their pull. And fundamental laws of physics are distorted at the center of a black hole, also known as the gravitational singularity. We're seeing a similar phenomenon in the investment world: the crushing weight of all this global debt is distorting some fundamental economic principles.
Buying stocks for yield and buying bonds for returns
With treasury bonds yielding less than 2 percent, many investors are buying dividend-paying stocks for their yield. For 35 years, interest rates experienced a steady decline into negative territory, and today's bond investors are actually hoping rates will keep moving lower to offer their portfolio some returns. Otherwise, they're stuck paying the borrower to borrow their money.
Cash might not be the parachute investors hope it will be, either. The interest rate environment has banks and other financial institutions shunning cash. Others are charging depositors just to hold it. This dynamic has a direct effect on banks' willingness to lend capital into the real economy, distorting the money supply as measured by M2, which includes cash (M1) and short-term cash alternatives like money market funds.
The number of Americans filing for unemployment benefits unexpectedly fell last week to a two-month low, pointing to labor market strength that could pave the way for the Federal Reserve to raise interest rates by December.
Initial claims for state unemployment benefits declined 8,000 to a seasonally adjusted 252,000 for the week ended Sept. 17, the Labor Department said on Thursday, the lowest level since mid-July. Claims for the prior week were unrevised.
It was the 81st consecutive week that claims remained below the 300,000 threshold, which is associated with robust labor market conditions. That is the longest stretch since 1970, when the labor market was much smaller.
U.S. home resales unexpectedly fell in August, crimped by a shortage of inventory that is boosting home prices faster than the pace of wage growth.
The National Association of Realtors said on Thursday existing home sales declined 0.9 percent to an annual rate of 5.33 million units.
Economists polled by Reuters had forecast sales rising 1.1 percent in August to a 5.45 million-unit pace.
July's sales pace was also revised lower to 5.38 million units from the previously reported 5.39 million units. However, despite sales being at their second-lowest pace of the year, home resales were still up 0.8 percent from one year ago. The housing market has been strengthening on the back of healthy job gains. The unemployment rate has hovered around 5 percent since August last year and a tightening labor market has begun to push up wages, although not enough to keep up with home price growth.
"We go back to the same bottom line: lack of inventory choices and prices rising way too fast," said Lawrence Yun, NAR's chief economist.
Only the Northeast saw more sales in part, the NAR said, due to greater supply compared to the West, South and Midwest. First-time homebuyers made up 31 percent of existing home sales in August.
Billionaire investor Daniel Loeb, whose Third Point hedge fund has recently pushed for change at Japanese companies, said on Wednesday that he approved of the Bank of Japan's monetary policy move, but added corporate reform is still needed to help revive growth.
The Japanese central bank announced earlier on Wednesday it would target interest rates on government bonds and Loeb said the move will have "very positive implications for the market."
Loeb, whose $16 billion Third Point fund has been investing in Japan for years, was speaking at the Reuters Newsmaker event featuring Japan's Prime Minister Shinzo Abe.
After making bets on Japanese companies ranging from Sony, to robot maker Fanuc and most recently retailer Seven & i Holdings Co Ltd, Loeb said foreign investors are being welcomed more now. Some large Japanese institutions agreed with his views, Loeb said, noting he has "allies" in Japan and "our interests are aligned."
Loeb said he had looked at investing in Nintendo, but stopped short, though he approves of the company's expansion into mobile technologies.
He said he and Japanese investors are looking for the same thing: to have better-run businesses whose benefits will eventually spread "far and wide." But he added that the potential for increased government protection of small- and medium-sized companies was misguided.
"Let the market determine where workers' labor is best allocated, let people who allocate capital determine that," Loeb said.
As Japan struggles to reignite growth, Loeb said central bankers around the world, including in Japan, had relied for too long on monetary policy to stimulate economic expansion.
"We've all relied too much on monetary policy," Loeb said, adding: "They used to call it the punch bowl. I say we've got to take the crack cocaine pipe away and start focusing on real fiscal policy and structural reforms."
Loeb was referring to a saying popularized by a central banker that he and his central banking colleagues needed to take away the punch bowl, or stimulus.
Abe, who returned to office in December 2012 for a rare return as prime minister pledging to reboot the economy with his "Abenomics," a mix of ultra-easy monetary policy, fiscal spending and reforms, told the Reuters audience that the economy remained his top priority.
Abe said his government would seek quick approval by parliament of the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) trade pact and urged the United States to do the same.
Loeb agreed that the TPP is critical. "Some of it is to ... get TPP approved," he said, adding that "some labor reforms, corporate governance, any regulatory restrictions that prevent companies from investing or growing," are also important.
Third Point has long ranked among the hedge fund industry's best performers, returning an average 19 percent a year since its launch two decades ago. This year, Loeb's returns have climbed just 7 percent, topping the average hedge fund's 3.4 percent return.
History shows a stock market like today's can not only withstand a Federal Reserve  interest rate hike but even advance, Wells Capital Management's Jim Paulsen told CNBC on Thursday.
A day after central bankers held the cost of borrowing steady at their September meeting, Paulsen contended on "Squawk Box" that earnings hold the key to stocks. Further, he said the profit rollover that began with the commodity collapse should be near an end.
The prospect for "moving back towards" positive earnings growth looks good in the second half of this year, the chief investment strategist said.
Just 2 percent earnings growth would exceed the yield on the 10-year Treasury, he pointed out. The 10-year yield was around 1.65 percent in early trading Thursday.
Back to 1950, when the Fed raised rates while earnings growth exceeded the 10-year yield, the stock market has outperformed, Paulsen said, turning in "almost 10 percent annualized gains."
"I think the market can handle rate increases as long as earnings return," he added.
Also on "Squawk Box," Fidelity Investment's Jurrien Timmer said Thursday that investors shouldn't expect a significant rally until earnings growth returns.
Paulsen said he wishes the Fed would just "get on with it," referring to raising rates for the second time in a decade. "I hope they do [hike] in December."
Investors now look to whether the Fed might pull the trigger in December, a year after its first hike in more than nine years.
The Fed's inaction is "keeping us right at the starting line," because stocks do generally have a "knee-jerk" reaction lower initially after a rate hike, he said. "I think the market was ready for it [this month] and would have been fine if the Fed came through [long term]."
The Dow Jones industrial average surged 163 points and the Nasdaq hit a record high after the Fed's September no-go. But at her post-meeting news conference, Fed Chair Janet Yellen said she would expect a rate hike this year.
Stocks may have rebounded after the Federal Reserve left interest rates unchanged, but investors shouldn't expect a significant rally until earnings growth returns, Fidelity Investment's director of global macro said Thursday.
Jurrien Timmer spoke one day after the Federal Open Market Committee announced it would keep its Fed funds rate within a range of 0.25 to 0.50 percent but indicated it intended to raise rates  at least once by year's end.
The S&P 500 declined about 2 percent in the two weeks heading into the Fed meeting as the 10-year Treasury ticked up. The S&P ended Wednesday's session about 1 percent higher, but Timmer said he's not convinced stocks will move substantially higher.
"If there's no earnings growth," he told CNBC's "Squawk Box" "There's only so much you can do in terms of a market rally no matter what the Fed does, and that's why we're kind of stuck in this holding pattern here."
The Fed has not increased rates since December, remaining on hold as policymakers assess the economy's ability to handle higher rates amid tepid growth at home and abroad.
Whether the stock market can weather a rate hike comes down to earnings growth, Timmer said. Despite four straight quarters of earnings declines, equities have risen as investors pile into the market for equities and other risk assets to find returns that government debt is no longer producing.
That is why stocks have been so sensitive to a recent rise in the U.S. 10-year Treasury yield, Timmer said. If the 10-year yield were to rise by 1 percent, the stock market would look roughly 20 percent overvalued, he said. But if that same increase dovetailed with earnings growth of about 6 percent, stocks would still look undervalued relative to bonds, he added.
"That's the fundamental problem that we have with this monetary policy cycle, and that's I think why the market is looking through [the Fed's decision] and seeing really only about one more hike for the cycle, which I think is the right way to look at it," Timmer said.
The market currently puts the odds of a rate hike in December at about 58 percent, according to the CME's FedWatch Tool.
Federal Reserve  officials lowered their expectations for rate hikes in the years ahead Wednesday but teed up a likely move before the end of 2016.
In a statement from the Federal Open Market Committee after this week's meeting, the central bank expressed confidence in economic growth, but not enough to make a move this month.
"The committee judges that the case for an increase in the federal funds rate has strengthened but decided, for the time being, to wait for further evidence of continued progress toward its objectives," the statement said.
Stock prices initially extended their gains  after the Fed announcement but then lost some ground.
The tipoff for what could be a December move came at what appeared to be a remarkably divisive FOMC meeting, judging by the statement and an accompanying summary of economic projections.
Three members from the hawkish Fed bloc — Esther George, Loretta Mester and Eric Rosengren — dissented from the statement, an unusual split considering Chair Janet Yellen's adeptness at keeping the committee united. It was the most "no" votes since the December 2014 meeting.
Indeed, the so-called dot plot that shows individual members' expectations indicated notably wider dispersion than the June meeting. While most Fed officials foresee a gradual increase of rates, one member expected the rate to be little changed from the 0.65 percent level all the way through 2019. Another member, meanwhile, put the rate expectation at 3.75 percent by 2019, more than a percentage point above the consensus.
Three members also indicated they do not want any hikes this year.
"The solid coalition is still going to be there with Yellen, (William) Dudley, (Stanley) Fischer and a handful of others. I think they're still all in agreement," said Kathy Jones, chief fixed income strategist at Charles Schwab. "I can only surmise there's a division between those who think that we are in this secular stagnation world — slow growth for a longer time — vs. those who think it's a cyclical issue that's taking a very long time to play out."
The increase likely would come at the Dec. 13 and 14 meeting, considering the Nov. 1 and 2 session comes just ahead of the presidential election and there is no post-meeting news conference scheduled.
"Most people were expecting some version of this, the idea that they weren't actually going to hike rates but they didn't want the notion that the Fed is never going to hike," said Lewis Alexander, the chief U.S. economist at Nomura. "This pretty much met those expectations."
Prepare for a holiday hike.
That's the message from the latest CNBC Fed Survey, where 90 percent of the 41 respondents say the Federal Reserve won't increase interest rates at its September meeting this week. But 88 percent say the hike is coming in December.
"Expect the Fed to stay on the sidelines until after the election so they cannot be characterized as impacting the election in any way," said John Roberts, senior vice president and director of research of Hilliard Lyons. "Recent economic statistics have been ambiguous enough to provide the Fed cover for such inactivity."
But the near unanimity over what the Fed will do masks widespread disagreement over what the Fed should do. Jim Bianco, founder of Bianco Research, wrote, "The longer the Fed goes without hiking, the more its credibility is hurt."
U.S. housing starts fell more than expected in August as building activity declined broadly after two straight months of solid increases, but a rebound in permits for single-family dwellings suggested demand for housing remained intact.
Groundbreaking decreased 5.8 percent to a seasonally adjusted annual pace of 1.14 million units, the Commerce Department said on Tuesday. July's starts were unrevised at a 1.21 million-unit pace.
Permits for future construction slipped 0.4 percent to a 1.14 million-unit rate last month as approvals for the volatile multi-family homes segment tumbled 7.2 percent to a 402,000 unit-rate. Permits for single-family homes, the largest segment of the market, surged 3.7 percent to a 737,000-unit pace.
Economists polled by Reuters had forecast housing starts falling to a 1.19 million-unit pace last month and building permits rising to a 1.17 million-unit rate.
Last month's decline in starts was largely anticipated as groundbreaking activity has been running well ahead of permits approvals over the past several months, especially in the single-family housing segment. The drop left starts just below their second-quarter average.
The Federal Reserve is focusing too narrowly on its so-called dual mandate and damaging basic financial infrastructure by keeping interest rates low, former Dallas Federal Reserve President Richard Fisher said Monday.
Fisher has long raised concerns about funds and businesses that have a hard time making a profit when interest rates are low, including insurance companies and pensions.
"The Fed seems to be focused, as they are mandated to do, on keeping inflation low, waiting for the 2 percent [inflation] target to be hit or surpassed, achieving full employment, but sneaking up behind them is the gutting of the financial infrastructure that we're used to, that people rely upon," he told CNBC's "Squawk Box."
Fisher made his comments ahead of a two-day meeting on Tuesday and Wednesday of the Federal Open Market Committee, the group of regional Fed presidents and governors who decide monetary policy. The FOMC has not raised interest rates since December, when the committee hiked them from near zero to a range of 25 to 50 basis points.
Some Fed officials are worried those low rates are creating financial market dislocations by pushing capital into riskier assets as investors hunt for returns.
Earlier this month, Boston Fed President Eric Rosengren, a noted monetary policy dove, took a more hawkish tone by expressing support for a gradual increase in rates sooner than later. He also warned of a potential bubble in the commercial real estate market, which has seen increased activities as developers take advantage of low borrowing costs.
Fisher said Rosengren was uniquely capable among his peers to identify such issues due to his background in financial sector supervision and regulation. However, he expressed his opinion that other Fed officials remain too focused on the central bank's inflation target and achieving full employment.
"Meanwhile their policies have done enormous damage to confidence in terms of, again, the basic infrastructure people rely upon: insurance companies, pension funds, interest rate margins for banks," Fisher said.
Market volatility is low, U.S. census data shows income gains have reached the middle class, and workers are clawing back a larger share of national income. For now, at least, no international risk stands out and inflation may even be picking up.
If Fed Chair Janet Yellen wants to prove that policymakers are not being pulled along by investors who for years have second-guessed them, this week may offer a rare moment of calm to do so.
The Fed is divided enough ahead of its Sept. 20-21 rate meeting that a nudge from its most influential policymaker could make the difference, and even some investors have begun to argue it is time for the central bank to stop worrying so much about what markets expect.
Americans are making more money, and that is making the nation's homebuilders feel a lot better about their business.
A monthly survey of builder confidence jumped a striking six points in September to the highest level in nearly a year. The National Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo Housing Market Index (HMI) hit 65; anything above 50 is considered positive sentiment. August's reading was revised down one point. The index stood at 61 one year ago.
"As household incomes rise, builders in many markets across the nation are reporting they are seeing more serious buyers, a positive sign that the housing market continues to move forward," said NAHB Chairman Ed Brady, a homebuilder and developer from Bloomington, Ilinois. "The single-family market continues to make gradual gains and we expect this upward momentum will build throughout the remainder of the year and into 2017."
Donald Trump's new tax plan gives the top 1 percent an average cut of at least $122,400, while the middle class could get a break of less than $500, according to a new analysis.
The independent Tax Foundation said Monday that the Republican presidential candidate's plan, announced last week, would cut taxes for every income group. Yet the biggest reductions would go to the biggest earners.
According to the plan, the top 1 percent of taxpayers would see a 10.2 percent to 16 percent boost in their after-tax incomes from the plan, assuming a steady economy. The middle class, or those in the 40 percent to 60 percent quintile, would only see a 1.3 percent increase.
Using $1.2 million as the average income for the top 1 percent, members of this group would get an average tax cut between $122,400 and $192,000, according to the Tax Foundation. The middle-quintile taxpayers, who earn an average $38,000, would get a $494 break.
The tax cut for the 1 percent would be even larger using the Trump campaign's assumptions about economic growth under the plan. Using so-called dynamic scoring, which assumes a larger economy and broader tax base, the top 1 percent would get a tax cut between 12.2 percent and 19.9 percent. That works out to savings between $146,400 and $238,800.
Using the Trump campaign's economic forecast, which calls for 3.5 percent annual GDP growth, the middle quintile would get a tax cut between 7.7 percent and 9 percent, or $2,926 to $3,420. Last year, U.S. GDP increased roughly 2 percent.
The Tax Foundation says the plan would reduce federal revenue by between $4.4 trillion and $5.9 trillion, assuming current economic conditions. But the foundation said the plan would lead to "higher long-run levels of GDP, wages and full-time equivalent jobs." Under faster growth, the plan would cut revenue by $2.6 trillion to $3.9 trillion.
Yet Trump's tax plan contains several benefits to the wealthy. The top individual income tax rate would fall from the current 39.6 percent to 33 percent, and the corporate tax rate would drop from 35 percent to 15 percent. He would also eliminate the federal estate tax and gift taxes.
The Tax Foundation left open the question of how Trump's plan would treat so-called pass-through income — one of the most controversial parts of his original proposal. Pass-through income is income that "passes through" a business to the individual returns of the business' owners. It includes owners of sole proprietorships, S corporations, LLCs and other business structures.
Trump's original plan called for applying the 15 percent rate to income that passes through a business to the individual returns of a business owner, down from 39.6 percent. That would amount to a $1.5 trillion tax cut mainly benefiting the wealthy, since more than two-thirds of pass-through income goes to the top 1 percent of taxpayers, according to the Tax Foundation. Those uncertainties account for the range in the foundation's analysis.
Just when a range of economic data got weak enough to give the Fed a pass on hiking rates, there was a surprise pickup in inflation last month.
The government's consumer price index rose 0.2 percent in August, but the closely followed core measure rose 0.3 percent, for an annualized pace of 2.3 percent. Meanwhile, the Fed's favorite inflation measure, the PCE deflator, is up 1.6 percent on an annualized basis but is still below the Fed 2 percent inflation target. The PCE deflator looks at the average price increase for all domestic personal goods and services.
JPMorgan economists said in a note that the rise in inflation does not change their view that the Fed will wait until December to raise rates, but they did point to a surprise 1 percent jump in medical costs — the biggest monthly rise since 1982.
"Inflation data is warmer than expected, and it will give fodder to those (Fed officials) who already coalesced around a rate hike. But we're going to see a hawkish hold," said Diane Swonk, CEO of DS Economics.
A batch of weakish data — including Thursday's 0.3 percent drop in August retail sales; the slowdown in August employment growth; and the decline in industrial production — all reinforced the majority view of economists that the Fed will stay on the sidelines at its meeting next week.
A key measure of consumers' attitudes was unchanged this month, edging below expectations, according to preliminary data.
The Index of Consumer Sentiment hit 89.8 in September's preliminary reading, the University of Michigan said on Friday. Economists expected the consumer sentiment index to hit 90.8 in September's preliminary reading, up from 89.8 in August's final reading, according to a Thomson Reuters consensus estimate.
Donald Trump's idea to cut taxes to spur economic growth "does not work" in theory or practice, the co-founder of the Center for Economic and Policy Research said Friday.
But a senior Trump economic advisor defended the supply-side economics practice.
"How many times do we need to keep doing this? I'm reminded of the [Bill Murray] movie 'Groundhog Day,' you keep waking up and it's the same story," Dean Baker, co-director of the left-leaning CEPR think tank, said on CNBC's "Squawk Box."
"We had this in the 1980s under Reagan," Baker said. He blamed weak economic growth when looking at the entire decade on supply-side Reaganomics.
Trump advisor David Malpass countered by saying President Ronald Reagan's policies did right the ship, after two recessions in the early 1980s due to an "extended period of malaise" left over from Jimmy Carter's time in the White House.
Supply-side economics looks to tax cuts as drivers of saving and investing to produce economic benefits that trickle down to the overall economy.
"The reality is when you put in good policies you get much faster growth," Malpass said. He said Trump advocates a federal corporate tax rate cut to 15 percent from 35 percent and tax cuts for middle- and lower-income Americans.
U.S. consumer prices increased more than expected in August as rising rents and healthcare costs offset a drop in gasoline prices, pointing to a steady build-up of inflation that could allow the Federal Reserve to raise interest rates this year.
The Labor Department said on Friday its Consumer Price Index rose 0.2 percent last month after being unchanged in July. In the 12 months through August, the CPI increased 1.1 percent after advancing 0.8 percent in July.
The so-called core CPI, which strips out food and energy costs, rose 0.3 percent last month, the biggest increase since February, after gaining 0.1 percent in July.
Economists had forecast the CPI nudging up 0.1 percent last month and the core CPI gaining 0.2 percent. The core CPI increased 2.3 percent in the 12 months through August after rising 2.2 percent in the year through July.
U.S. Treasury prices pared gains and U.S. stock futures extended losses after the data. The dollar was stronger against a basket of currencies.
Last month's uptick in inflation is likely to be welcomed by Fed officials when they meet next Tuesday and Wednesday to deliberate on monetary policy.
Big banks are no safer now than they were before the financial crisis, according to a new analysis by a Harvard duo that includes former White House economic advisor Larry Summers.
Not only does the paper assert that the possibility of a too-big-to-fail scenario still looms, but they also said the increased regulatory environment actually has played a part in keeping the system endangered.
"We find that a substantial part of the reason banks have become riskier and effectively more leveraged is a decline in their franchise value," the researchers wrote in a white paper for the Brookings Institution. They added that "it appears plausible that a large part of the reason for declines in franchise value is regulatory activity and the prospect of future regulation."
In essence, the paper argues that the regulatory pressure through Dodd-Frank and other measures has made banks a tougher investment.
The paper is co-authored by Natasha Sarin and was scheduled for presentation at a conference Thursday, which happens to be the eighth anniversary of Lehman Brothers' bankruptcy filing, a crucial moment in the crisis. Summers has served under multiple presidents and headed the National Economic Council for President Barack Obama.
Donald Trump thinks American GDP can grow more than 4 percent under his policies, more than double the average rate the U.S. has seen in this century.
"My great economists don't want me to say this, but I think we can do better than that," he said Thursday in a speech to the Economic Club of New York.
Earlier Thursday, his campaign said in a fact sheet that its planned tax cuts and deregulation will boost average annual GDP growth to 3.5 percent and "create as many as 25 million new jobs" in the next decade. The U.S. economy grew at roughly 2 percent in 2015 and last grew at a 4 percent annual rate in 2000.
Consumers spent a lot more at restaurants and bars in August, while cutting back on big ticket items like cars and furniture — and even online shopping.
Spending at food services and other eating places jumped 0.9 percent last month, while food and beverage stores saw a pickup of 0.3 percent. That compares with a drop of 0.9 percent at auto and parts dealers, and a 0.7 percent dip in spending on furniture.
"If there is an election uncertainty effect, it would not be surprising if restaurants were spared the pain: in principle uncertainty should restrain spending on durable goods more than spending on services," wrote JPMorgan chief U.S. economist Michael Feroli.
Wells Fargo shares continued to tumble on Thursday, closing down about 0.8 percent, following reports that federal prosecutors are investigating the bank and its sales practices.
The stock inched near bear market territory. As of its session low of $45.19, Wells Fargo shares were about 19.8 percent below their 52-week intraday high of $56.34.
A bear market is defined by a 20 percent drop in a stock from its 52-week intraday high.
Main Street USA is getting pummeled.
America's economic performance peaked in the late 1990s, according to a   new report on the competitiveness of the U.S. economy from Harvard Business School.
Since then, there has been an ever-widening income disparity in the U.S., and that same divide has been growing between large and small businesses, the report finds.
"Corporate profits in America remain near all-time highs, though revenue and profit growth has slowed. But many small businesses are struggling," the report says.
The smallest businesses, those with between one and nine employees, reported having "starkly more negative views" of the business environment than their larger counterparts.
"Across the board, the U.S. business environment looks worse from the vantage point of small business," the report says.
A disappointing drop in retail sales raises more concern about the health of the consumer and reaffirms a widespread view that the Fed will not raise rates next week.
Fed funds futures immediately reflected lower odds — of just 18 percent for a September rate hike, down from 22 percent, after August retail sales were reported to fall by 0.3 percent, according to Jefferies. Odds for a December hike were just above 50 percent, based on fed funds futures.
Core retail sales were down 0.1 percent. That reflects sales, excluding autos, building materials, gasoline and food, and closely correlates to consumption in GDP. Economists had expected a gain of 0.3 percent in core sales, so this number could impact forecasts for third quarter GDP.
"It wasn't a hot one in August this summer for the economy, with consumers pulling back their purchases and factory output sinking. ... We are forced to concede that the economy is sputtering on all cylinders this morning, and the data appear to drive a stake at the heart of our hopes for a Fed rate hike at next week's meeting," wrote Chris Rupkey, chief financial economist at MUFG Union Bank. Rupkey had been one of the few economists who expected a rate hike next week.
The number of Americans filing for unemployment benefits rose less than expected last week, pointing to a further tightening in labor market conditions.
Initial claims for state unemployment benefits edged up 1,000 to a seasonally adjusted 260,000 for the week ended Sept. 10, the Labor Department said on Thursday. Claims for the prior week were unrevised.
Economists polled by Reuters had forecast first-time applications for jobless benefits rising to 265,000 in the latest week.
Get the market reaction here.
It was the 80th straight week that claims remained below the 300,000 threshold, which is associated with robust labor market conditions. That is the longest stretch since 1970, when the labor market was much smaller.
Americans blame political gridlock in Washington for the country's declining economic competitiveness and hold both Democrats and Republicans responsible, a Harvard Business School study released on Wednesday found.
The study noted that U.S. gross domestic product grew at a rate of about 2 percent since 2000, well below the 3 to 4 percent average in the prior half-century. It said a range of factors including a complicated corporate tax code, tangled immigration system and aging roads contribute to the slow growth.
The study contends that factors including a growing wealth gap, declines in productivity growth and a rise in the number of working-age people neither employed nor seeking jobs show that the U.S. economy is becoming less competitive.
A majority of the school's alumni surveyed said they believed the U.S. political system was hurting the economy. That view crossed party lines, with 82 percent of Republicans, 74 percent of independents and 56 percent of Democrats agreeing.
"Only a minority of members of either party felt that their own party was acting in a way that supported economic growth," said Jan Rivkin, a professor at Harvard Business School and co-author of the report.
The survey did not ask whether respondents preferred Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump or Democratic candidate Hillary Clinton.
Some respondents worry that neither candidate for the White House could overcome gridlock in Washington, Rivkin said, adding "Anyone elected into the current system would face pressure toward paralysis."
A concurrent survey of the general public found smaller, but still significant, numbers blaming the political system for a languishing U.S. economy.
Some 49 percent of Republicans, 38 percent of independents and 26 percent of Democrats at large said politics were hurting growth.
The study contends partisan gridlock is preventing the federal government from tackling structural problems facing the U.S. economy, and suggested steps to address that gridlock. Among them: Changing rules that allow lawmakers to "gerrymander" districts to ensure one party's dominance; reforming campaign finance; setting term limits in the House and Senate, and eliminating party control of the federal legislative process.
The study comes a day after the Census Bureau reported median household income surged 5.2 percent last year to $56,500, its highest since 2007.
The surveys included responses from 4,807 alumni of Harvard Business School from May 3 through June 6 and 1,048 members of the general public polled June 10-26. The public survey had a margin of error of 3.3 percentage points, margin of error does not apply to the alumni survey as it was not a random sample.
The United States is falling short on a number of critical measures of competitiveness, with small businesses bearing the most pain due to the shortfalls, a new study by Harvard Business School finds.
The end result is the country is failing to promote prosperity among all Americans, according to Harvard's fifth-annual U.S. Competitiveness Project report.
Professor Michael Porter, co-chair of the Competitiveness Project, said Thursday the weakness extends beyond the current economic recovery from the financial crisis. According to the study, America's performance peaked in the late 1990s.
"We're stalled in America. Our performance, economic performance, on many metrics is worse than we've seen in many generations. I mean not five years. I mean 10, 15, 20, 30 years," he told CNBC's "Squawk Box."
The study, which draws on surveys of Harvard Business School alumni and the general public, finds the United States retains key strengths in areas like higher education, entrepreneurship and capital markets. But those advantages have been offset by weaknesses in the corporate tax code, early and secondary education, infrastructure, the political system and health care.
Those problems have gone unsolved because Washington has failed to have an honest conversation about addressing them, and the country lacks a cohesive economic strategy, particularly at the federal level, the study concludes.
U.S. producer prices were flat in August as the cost of energy products declined and trade services fell, but underlying producer inflation firmed.
The Labor Department said on Thursday the unchanged reading in its producer price index for final demand followed a 0.4
percent drop in July. In the 12 months through August, the PPI was unchanged after decreasing 0.2 percent in July.
Economists polled by Reuters had forecast the PPI nudging up 0.1 percent last month and gaining 0.1 percent from a year ago.
Producer prices have been dampened by a strong dollar and cheaper oil. But some of the drag is easing with the dollar rally appearing to have peaked early this year and oil prices having pushed off multi-decade lows.
U.S. retail sales fell more than expected in August amid weak purchases of automobiles and a range of other goods, pointing to cooling domestic demand that could further diminish expectations of a Federal Reserve interest rate increase next week.
The Commerce Department said on Thursday retail sales declined 0.3 percent after an upwardly revised 0.1 percent gain in July. Retail sales in July were previously reported to have been unchanged.
Sales were up 1.9 percent from a year ago. Excluding automobiles, gasoline, building materials and food services, retail sales slipped 0.1 percent last month after a downwardly revised 0.1 percent drop in July.
These so-called core retail sales correspond most closely with the consumer spending component of gross domestic product. They were previously reported to have been unchanged in July.
Economists had forecast overall retail sales slipping 0.1 percent and core sales climbing 0.3 percent last month.
Coming on the heels of reports showing a slump in manufacturing activity in August and a slowdown in job growth, the retail sales data temper hopes of a strong rebound in economic growth in the third quarter.
The report also suggests the Fed will leave interest rates unchanged at its Sept. 20-21 policy meeting. Fed Governor Lael Brainard said on Monday she wants to see stronger consumer spending data and signs of rising inflation before raising interest rates.
The Atlanta Fed is currently forecasting the economy growing at a 3.3 percent annualized rate in the third quarter.
Auto sales fell 0.9 percent last month and sales at service stations dropped 0.8 percent. Sales at online retailers slipped 0.3 percent and receipts at sporting goods and hobby stores decreased 1.4 percent.
There were also declines in sales at furniture and building material stores. Receipts at clothing stores, however, rose 0.7 percent. Sales at electronics and appliance outlets gained 0.1 percent and receipts at restaurants and bars rose 0.9 percent.
Manufacturing in New York state remained weak in September as factories reported fewer new orders, lower shipments and reduced staffing levels.
A separate report on the September Philadelphia Fed Business Index came in at a much-higher-than-expected 12.8, up from a 2.0 reading a month earlier. Economists had expected a flat reading for the month.
The Federal Reserve Bank of New York says that its Empire State index ticked up to a reading of minus 2, from minus 4.2 in August. Still, any reading below zero signals contraction.
Other measures fared much worse. A gauge of new orders dropped to minus 7.5 from 1, and a measure of shipments plummeted to minus 9.4 to 9. An employment index fell sharply to minus 14.3 from minus 1.
The report suggests manufacturers are still struggling with the dollar's sharp rise in the last 18 months and ongoing caution from businesses, which have been reluctant to invest in machinery and other large equipment.
— CNBC contributed to this report.
U.S. industrial production fell more than expected in August, hurt in part by a sharp decline in utilities output, the Federal Reserve said on Thursday.
Industrial output fell 0.4 percent last month after a downwardly revised 0.6 percent increase in July. Last month, manufacturing output also declined 0.4 percent.
Economists polled by Reuters had forecast industrial production declining 0.3 percent last month.
The industrial sector measured by the U.S. central bank comprises manufacturing, mining, and electric and gas utilities.
It had recently picked up after declining for much of the last 18 months but continues to struggle to shake off the dampening effects of weak global demand, a strong dollar and low oil prices.
Last month, there were some positive signs for the hard-hit energy sector, with mining output rising 1.0 percent, it's fourth consecutive monthly increase. However, the index for utilities fell 1.4 percent.
Business equipment output also dropped 0.4 percent, with cutbacks of nearly 2 percent for industrial and other equipment, the Fed said.
With overall output decreasing, the percentage of industrial capacity in use fell 0.4 percentage points in August to 75.5 percent, from an unrevised 75.9 percent in July.
The Fed sees capacity use as a leading indicator in deciding how much further the economy can grow before sparking higher inflation.
Former Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke thinks policymakers should give serious thought to implementing negative rates.
The man who led the U.S. central bank immediately before Janet Yellen doesn't believe his former colleagues should rush to that kind of ultra-aggressive policy stance.
But of all the options the Fed has for stimulus, going to negative rates may not be as drastic as it seems, Bernanke said in a blog post this week.
"It would be extremely helpful if central banks could count on other policymakers, particularly fiscal policymakers, to take on some of the burden of stabilizing the economy during the next recession," Bernanke said, writing in his position as a consultant to the Brookings Institution think tank.
Years of underfunding and lackluster investment returns have left state pubic pensions even deeper in the hole — a shortfall taxpayers will eventually have to make up.
Some states are in much better shape than others, according to the latest data from S&P Global Ratings
In New Jersey, for example, the state has set aside just 38 percent of what it needs to make good on promises to current and future retirees, which leaves a shortfall that works out to $10,648 per person. Wisconsin, on the other hand, has slightly overfunded its public pension plans, which has left it with a small surplus.
For the last two years I have listened to the boisterous commentary from scholars, business professionals, journalists and politicians about when and why the U.S. Central Bank will or should raise interest rates. Most of it has been thoughtful and pragmatic; some of it not so much - but I had to laugh when I saw Donald Trump's comment that Janet Yellen is intentionally keeping short-term rates low to benefit the Obama administration. It makes me wonder whether he understands the global economic dynamic in which we operate. Donald Trump, the self-proclaimed master of the real estate universe and our global economy should, of all people, get it.  After all, he has benefitted from it.  As a fellow real estate professional, I feel compelled to give more depth on this subject so that the electorate can better analyze these assertions.  The truth is far more complex than Trump suggests.
The Basics:
It is important to distinguish between short-term interest rates and long-term interest rates.  Short-term rates that can be affected by our Federal Reserve include the Federal Funds Rate, which is the rate that one bank charges to lend reserves to another bank, and the Discount Rate, which is the rate that banks pay when they borrow money from the Fed.  In theory, how the Fed manages these rates can have wide implications for our economy, and generally affect the supply and cost of money.  Less expensive money generally promotes growth, while more expensive money restricts it.
The Fed can only directly control short-term interest rates; affecting long-term rates is more complicated.  Long-term rates are often tied to the yield on similarly maturing U.S. Treasuries or the corresponding swaps market.  Granted, this is a bit simplistic, but it covers most cases.  Long term rates are affected by a wide range of global factors, including the strength of other economies and market risks.  Just because the Fed changes short-term interest rates, does not necessarily mean long-term rates will change.
The Grand Experiment:
When the 2008 global financial crisis hit, policy makers and elected officials had to move quickly to avoid a complete economic meltdown.  They had to act with limited data and an opaque sense for how their actions would affect the future.  It's easier to argue in hindsight about whether steps taken were correct, but I would suggest that in 2008 the Fed, as well as our elected officials, were presented with an incredibly complex set of circumstances driven by the global interrelationship of our economies and the nature of the cascading default risk.  Generally speaking, the Fed and our elected officials did the best they could with the tools they had to prevent an immediate meltdown.  They tried to stabilize the situation and then look for ways to promote growth.  Quantitative easing, like it or not, is an example of this strategy.
The problem is that then, as now, nobody really knows how this grand economic experiment will end.  Many scholars and politicians have argued that the monetary policies of the last eight years would be massively inflationary. So far, that outcome is not obvious.  If anything, the world has ended up in more of a sideways recovery similar to what Japan has experienced over the last decade.  In the U.S., we are seeing signs of economic vibrancy, but it's not like we're on a ballistic growth trajectory.  After eight years of multiple QE's and basically 0 percent rates, were are barely treading water.  The issue is more challenging for some of our major trading partners in Europe and Asia whose economies are in reverse.  They are cutting interest rates, even going negative on rates to promote growth and avoid stagnation, or worse, deflation.
We Are In This Together:
While the fact pattern that has shaped global monetary policy over the last eight years is incredibly complex, how we unwind from such policy and "normalize" is equally complicated with ramifications that can have vast consequences for both the U.S. and the rest of the world.  What happens in Europe and Asia really matters to the U.S. – we are forever economically tied at the hip with the rest of the world. Janet Yellen understands this. If some of our major trading partners are cutting rates to promote growth, it makes it hard for the U.S. to raise rates – every time one of our major sovereign competitors reduces their rates it translates into an imbedded rate increase for us.  Every time we raise rates in the face of struggling economies abroad we strengthen the U.S. dollar, making our goods less competitive overseas and damaging global profits.  Our economy is not yet so bullet proof that we can afford a major monetary policy gaff.  If we are not careful, we could be right back into recession – a recession where we have limited tools left to fight; one, if not controlled, could spin into deflation.  That's hardly a decision that should be left to politics.
The Path Forward:
The U.S. Central Bank should absolutely look for ways to carefully unwind from the monetary policies of the last eight years; it should take every chance to raise short-term rates.  However, the Fed must do so in a measured way, being conscious of the global ramifications and subsequent potential impacts at home.  Janet Yellen understands this.  Donald Trump's comment that Yellen is protecting Obama is nonsense.  This has nothing to do with Obama and everything to do with promoting sustainable economic growth while seeking pragmatic ways to engineer a soft landing from the last eight years. Yellen will continue to carefully probe ways to normalize while measuring the impacts to every piece of our economy.  Her interests and legacy are aligned with this country – she understands that how she and her team navigate these treacherous waters has long-term implications for every one of us – she is not concerned with the short-term, and sometimes conflicted, interests of elected officials.
By the way, if we had not embarked upon the monetary policies of the last eight years, I would bet Donald Trump's real estate business would be toast – after all, he admits he is the "King of Debt."  The historically low rates of the past years likely allowed him to sustain high leverage on his portfolio over a longer period thereby saving his kingdom. Instead of criticizing Yellen, he should be on his knees thanking her (and Bernanke).
Donald Trump is about to be the first Republican nominee to say that women should be guaranteed six weeks of paid maternity leave after they give birth, Sopan Deb of CBS reported this morning:

The problem, as Deb goes on to report, is that Trump seems to have no clue how he'll pay for it.

There's about $3 billion in unemployment fraud in the US every year. Even if Trump could root it all out, it would probably take at least three times that much money to afford a bare-bones paid family leave program.
More from Vox: Donald Trump might be loosening the Republican Party's hold on Mormon voters President Obama: the media is completely failing to hold Donald Trump to account  American cities are getting richer. Rural areas are getting left behind.
A win for U.S. presidential candidate Donald Trump could have grave implications for the world's largest economy, according to Oxford Economics.
If Trump were able to implement all of his proposed policies, that would undermine global economic growth and knock 5 percent off where U.S. gross domestic product (GDP) would otherwise be in 2021, U.K.-based economists Jamie Thompson and Sarah Maxwell said in a note Tuesday. That would erase as much as $1 trillion off the forecast size of the U.S. economy in 2021, Thompson said via email.
"The consequences are far-reaching," the economists said. Oxford Economics is an independent advisory firm, originally founded in 1981 as a commercial venture with Oxford University's business college.
In what the economists call their "adverse Trump scenario" of substantially all of the Republican candidate's stated policies being enacted, the slowdown would be far deeper than in a scenario of partial policy enactment and growth would remain subdued longer. Oxford Economics' baseline forecasts were for the U.S. economy to grow 1.5 percent to 2.3 percent a year for 2016-2021.
Tax policy reform is king in this election.
That's the finding of a recent survey of 1,040 individuals conducted by WalletHub, a provider of free credit scores and reports.
Nearly 57 percent of participants said that "tax fairness" — what people should pay and how much — was more important than "whatever is best for the economy," which garnered close to 23 percent.
And when it comes to taxes on the well-to-do, two-thirds of those polled said they preferred Hillary Clinton's plan to tack on a 4 percent surcharge on incomes exceeding $5 million.
Meanwhile, 32 percent said they preferred   Donald Trump's proposal to lower the top federal income tax bracket to 33 percent from its current 39.6 percent. WalletHub polled people online from Aug. 26 to Aug. 29 and the survey has a 3.1 percent margin of error.
U.S. import prices fell for the first time in six months in August on declining petroleum and food costs, pointing to a tame inflation environment that could encourage the Federal Reserve to keep interest rates steady next week.
The Labor Department said on Wednesday import prices decreased 0.2 percent in August after an unrevised 0.1 percent gain in July. Last month's drop was the first since February.
Economists polled by Reuters had forecast import prices slipping 0.1 percent in August. In the 12 months through August, import prices fell 2.2 percent, the smallest decrease since October 2014, after declining 3.7 percent in July.
Import prices have been constrained by a strong dollar and cheap oil. That, together with sluggish wage growth have left inflation persistently running below the Fed's 2 percent target.
August's weak inflation reading added to a slowdown in job growth and soft manufacturing and services sectors surveys in reducing the likelihood of an interest rate hike at the Fed's Sept. 20-21 policy meeting.
After struggling to make ends meet since the Great Recession, American households are finally getting a raise.
For the first time since 2007, the median U.S. household saw a healthy bump in income last year — up 5.2 percent to $56,500 from $53,700 in 2014, according to a Census report released Tuesday. Much of that gain came from the drop in the unemployment rate that created more paychecks for American workers.
Those gains helped cut the number of people living in poverty to 53.1 million, extending a decline that has continued since 2009 despite a slow economic recovery. The latest drop is the largest annual percentage point decline since 1999, Census officials said.
Most researchers caution, though, that the official rate doesn't paint a true picture of poverty trends because it doesn't account for non-cash benefits, including food stamps and refundable tax credits.
But the Census data on incomes confirm what other fresher monthly numbers are showing. Millions of workers are getting raises, some bigger than others.
If you're not one of them, there may be an explanation for why you're getting left behind.
In the years just after the financial collapseof 2008 and the mass layoffs of the Great Recession, most people felt lucky to have an income — even if it wasn't growing. Employers quickly recognized that their workers were more concerned about job security than holding on to any hopes for fatter paychecks. So wage growth shrank.
Investors are "still afraid" after the global financial crisis, the CEO of a mammoth asset management firm said Tuesday.
"There's an enormous amount of people in cash. They're still afraid of what happened in 2008. They're still afraid to take long-term viewpoints," said Mary Callahan Erdoes, CEO of JPMorgan Asset Management, at the Delivering Alpha conference sponsored by CNBC and Institutional Investor.
The S&P 500 has climbed more than 4 percent this year, but investors have fled stocks for short periods of time after events like Britain's vote to leave the European Union — the so-called Brexit. Money has flooded into global Treasury markets.
Callahan Erdoes contended that a focus on short-term risks "erodes everything" about long-term investment gains. She said money managers should focus on maintaining long-term gains while adapting to immediate risks.
JPMorgan Asset Management manages more than $2 trillion.
Markets are down again this morning. Most are content to blame it on crude, down about 2 percent earlier on an IEA report that says the world is very adequately supplied with oil, and that demand (particularly from India and China) will not be as strong as anticipated next year.
But I think there's a bigger problem: the central bankers of the world appear to be shifting their positions. Despite the choppy data, a majority of the FOMC appears to be leaning toward a rate hike in September, despite the fact that the fed funds futures are assigning only a 15 percent chance of this happening.  It's bigger than that:  you not only have the Fed's Dennis Lockhart and Eric Rosengren trying to argue there is a case for raising rates, you have the ECB standing pat on more QE, and don't be shocked if the Bank of Japan's Haruhiko Kuroda turns cautious on expanding QE when he speaks next Tuesday.
So we now have the next eight days—leading up to the Fed meeting—with much higher levels of volatility than you might expect. You can see this in the VIX curve, which has flattened significantly in the last few days.  The cash VIX is roughly 17.0, whereas the October futures contract is 17.6, November 18.6. The cash VIX was only 12 on Thursday.
Marko Kolanovic, who runs Derivative and Equity Strategies at JP Morgan, recently estimated that monetary policy since 2009 has accounted for a gain of 21 percent in Low Volatility Equities (consumer staples, utilities, telecom), a 10 percent gain in government bond indexes, and a 7 percent increase in gold.
A 21 percent gain for a Low Volatility strategy is substantial but would certainly not account for all the gains.  The  Powershares Low Volatility ETF, a basket of low volatility stocks, is up 75 percent since its creation in mid-2011.
Still, it's a substantial part of the gain. If central banks start "normalizing" policy, Kolanovic believes those gains would gradually go away. For example, if the Fed took three years to "normalize" rates at an even tempo, he assumes the average yearly historical gain in equities (about 7 percent) could be erased each of those three years.
Whether Donald Trump or Hillary Clinton wins the presidential election, they won't take markets down with them  — and neither will general geopolitical instability — one money manager said Tuesday.
Some market watchers have cited risks from the election, especially with Republican Trump's knack for unpredictable behavior. But inherent U.S. stability will limit the damage of either candidate, said Ashbel Williams, chief investment officer for the Florida State Board of Administration, which manages more than $170 billion.
The U.S. dollar and stability from the "umbrella of the American armed forces" will likely keep geopolitical risks in check, he said at the Delivering Alpha conference sponsored by CNBC and Institutional Investor.
Williams spoke as part of a panel with two other money managers.
Neither candidate may prove particularly damaging to markets, said Mark Carhart, chief investment officer and founding partner at Kepos Capital. However, he said that both candidates can hurt markets with more "activist" government intervention.
Goldman Sachs economists sliced the odds again for a September rate hike, now to 25 percent, less than half of what they expected when Fed officials met at Jackson Hole, Wyoming, in late August.
The economists basically blame a foggy message.
"The lack of a signal is meaningful because if action were likely, the committee would normally make an effort to nudge the market toward anticipating a hike," they wrote in a note.
They said there are eight Fed officials who would like to raise rates this month, four of them voters. Another four would prefer to wait, two of those voters.  But five central bank officials have been harder to read and where they stand is unclear.
The economists had put 55 percent odds on a September hike after comments from Fed Chair Janet Yellen and Vice Chair Stanley Fischer at Jackson Hole, when both indicated the Fed could raise rates soon.
Within a few days, the economists slashed that forecast to 40 percent from 55 percent, based in part of the lack of clarity from San Francisco Fed President John Williams on the timing of a hike.
They now place odds of a December rate increase at 40 percent, up from 30 percent, with the odds of a hike this year at 65 percent.
Goldman had viewed the disappointing August nonfarm payrolls on Sept. 2 as a close call, but just strong enough for the Fed to raise rates — until the August ISM nonmanufacturing data fell sharply to 51.4, a level last seen in 2010.
The firm's call for a September hike was contrarian with most economists believing the weakish jobs report for August ruled out a rate rise this month.
For thirteen years, I lived the experience of leading a public company through the unpredictability of globalization and the depths of a great recession. The lessons learned in that role – sound judgment, effective leadership, and clear vision – are all skills we expect our next president to exhibit.
I have switched from the corporate world to work for what I deeply believe in: entrepreneurship and women's opportunity. As CEO of Grameen America, I fight every day to empower tens of thousands of low-income women entrepreneurs around this country.
Having seen our economy from both vantage points, I believe that Hillary Clinton is the unique candidate with the values, perspective, and wherewithal to lead our economy.
For the millions struggling in our country, entrepreneurship represents an opportunity to generate income, support a family, and climb up the economic ladder. But there are far too many barriers that make turning this dream into a reality nearly impossible.
Women and minority small business owners struggle to gain access to formal capital markets and get the licensing they need to open up shop. It is unacceptable that it takes longer to start a business in the U.S. than it does in most other developed countries.
As Hillary Clinton says, far too many entrepreneurs' dreams die in the parking lots of banks. She recognizes that enabling entrepreneurship is a key part of job creation and national economic growth. That's why she has made small businesses a priority and put forth an agenda that gets to the heart of what each and every entrepreneur needs.
She has committed to spend $25 billion to boost women- and minority-owned small businesses, an investment that will more than pay for itself in the long run. She has also put forth commonsense proposals that will make it easier for small business owners to access capital, build their credit, get the required licensing, and receive crucial mentoring and training.
This November, we are faced with two vastly divergent visions for the future of our country. I know that when I step foot into the voting booth, I won't be simply choosing Democrat or Republican. My ballot will go to the only candidate that has a proven track record of supporting women and the small businesses that our economy depends on.
Hillary Clinton has demonstrated the experience and commitment to ensuring that our economic recovery remains strong and America can continue to lead well into the 21st century.
The Trans-Pacific Partnership has obvious benefits despite the beating it has taken on the campaign trail, Treasury Secretary Jack Lew said Tuesday.
"The TPP on its face should be a clear plus. And we're going to continue making that case," Lew said at the 2016 Delivering Alpha conference.
The Obama administration-backed trade deal with Pacific nations has faced resistance in Congress and from major party presidential candidates Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton.
The U.S. economy is barely growing, but it's expected to keep moving ahead fast enough to prompt Federal Reserve officials give serious thought to raising interest rates when they meet next week.
That view was offered up by Atlanta Fed President Dennis Lockhart on Monday to a group of business economists, who issued a fresh forecast that calls for continued subpar growth.
Despite the slow advance of overall economic expansion, Lockhart pointed to other signals that it may be time to nudge rates higher.
"If 1.6 percent inflation and 4.9 percent unemployment were all you knew about the economy, would you consider a policy setting one tick above the zero lower bound still appropriate?" Lockhart said in a Monday morning address at the National Association for Business Economics.
"I think circumstances call for a lively discussion next week," he said.
While historically low inflation and jobless rates may bolster the case for higher interest rates, the recent slow pace of overall economic growth continues to give some Fed members pause.
That slow growth is expected to continue, according to the NABE's latest quarterly survey, released Monday.
The business economists expect the U.S. economy to avoid a recession for at least the next two years, but they continue to lower their projections for growth.
The group's median estimate sees gross domestic product growing at an annual rate of 1.5 percent in 2016, down from their June forecast of 1.8 percent. Their median outlook for next year sees growth picking up a bit, to 2.3 percent average annual growth.
The economists also see the pace of hiring slowing; they've cut their June forecast of 201,000 jobs per month to just 185,000 monthly payroll gains in the latest survey. They expect payroll growth to slow to 168,000 a month next year, with the jobless rate falling to 4.6 percent by the end of 2017.
The recent pickup in wage growth is expected to slow — from 2.9 percent last year to 2.6 percent this year. But the group sees wage growth picking up again next year, to 3.1 percent, rising faster than inflation both years. They expect inflation to remain tame at 1.6 percent this year, rising to 2.2 percent next year.
Lockhart told the group that recent data and contacts with business officials in his southern region leave him confident that job growth will continue and inflation will eventually rise toward the Fed's target.
Though not ruling out some of the more pessimistic arguments of his colleagues who feel the economy may be in a low-growth rut, he regards the economy as "chugging along, not stalling out."
Fed officials will have to keep quiet after Monday when it comes to their thoughts about policy, but investors could get plenty to stew over before the day is through.
Fed Governor Lael Brainard will deliver remarks at 1 p.m. EDT, and the market is on edge over what she will say. Considered a close ally of Fed Chair Janet Yellen, Brainard's remarks likely will go a long way toward indicating where the Federal Open Market Committee stands on interest rates.
After today, Fed officials can't give speeches until after the Sept. 20-21 FOMC gathering.
Brainard has gained a reputation as a dove, meaning she is generally in favor of keeping rates low. In fact, remarks she made earlier this year showed she is even more cautious about rate hikes than Yellen.
Whispers have been traveling through the market, though, that her remarks to The Chicago Council on Global Affairs could show a change in mindset. If that turns out to the be case, markets could revolt.
Stocks sold off sharply Friday amid talk of Fed tightening and opened lower Monday ahead of the Brainard speech.
Atlanta Fed President Dennis Lockhart added to the tension Monday morning when he said a rate hike warrants "serious discussion" at the meeting.
Donald Trump finds himself in a campaign conundrum — he's an anti-debt candidate running on a platform that would substantially increase the American IOU to the world.
In an interview Monday with CNBC, the Republican nominee again railed against the national debt surge under President Barack Obama. Total government debt stood at $10.63 trillion when Obama took office, and has swelled to $19.48 trillion as of last Thursday, according to Treasury figures.
Trump repeatedly has called out the administration for what he says is its free-spending ways, and he amped up that rhetoric during the phone interview.
"In eight years we've doubled what's happened over hundreds of years," he said. "The worst part of doubling the debt is we haven't gotten anything for it."
Donald Trump told CNBC on Monday the United States has "tremendous power" over China because the world's second-largest economy depends on American prosperity, and because of Beijing's ownership of a staggering amount of U.S. debt.
"They suck the blood out of us and we owe them money," Trump said on "Squawk Box."
"I call them great magicians," he added in the phone interview in which he also accused the Fed of being politically motivated, blasted President Barack Obama for increasing the national debt, and reacted to the health problems of Democratic rival Hillary Clinton.
The Republican presidential nominee was quick to say: "You're not going to default on that debt."
"Although," he said, "you could make the case ... China has defaulted with us" by stealing U.S. intellectual property. IP theft, principally by China, costs the American economy $300 billion a year, according to a 2013 bipartisan commission report.
Despite all that, Trump argued: "We have a lot of power," alluding to the old saying that debtors have the problem if they owe a bank $100, but the bank has the problem if a debtor owes $100 million.
Under this analogy, China would be the bank, and America would be the debtor that owes China $1.2 trillion. That's dollar value of U.S. sovereign debt owned by China, according to June data from the Treasury Department.
Trump said also he sees the U.S. having leverage over China because its economy derives strength from manufacturing and exporting many of the goods that Americans buy everyday.
"We should get China to fix that problem. We should use our economic power. Because without us, China would be in serious trouble," he said, echoing a theme he's raised throughout his campaign that China is getting the best of the U.S. on the trade front.
As a tough negotiator in the business world as a billionaire real estate mogul, Trump has argued he's the candidate to craft better trade deals with world powers, such as China.
GOP presidential nominee Donald Trump told CNBC on Monday the Federal Reserve is doing what President Barack Obama wants by keeping interest rates low.
Fed Chair Janet Yellen and central bank policymakers are very political, and Yellen should be "ashamed" of what she's doing to the country, Trump said, adding the Fed is not even close to being independent.
By keeping interest rates low, the Fed has created a "false stock market," Trump argued in a wide-ranging interview in which he also talked about Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton's health problems.
Trump said rates are being kept lower to bolster Obama's legacy. "Any increase at all will be a very, very small increase because they want to keep the market up so Obama goes out and let the new guy ... raise interest rates ... and watch what happens in the stock market."
Doubting whether rates would change while Obama remains in office, Trump said: "[Obama] wants to go out. He wants to play golf for the rest of this life. And he doesn't care what's going to happen after January."
In response to Trump's charges about politics influencing the central bank, Minneapolis Fed President Neel Kashkari told CNBC in a separate interview on Monday there's no truth to that notion.
American savers are the worst hit by the Fed's easy monetary policies, Trump said. "The ones who did it right — they saved their money [and] they cut down on their mortgages, ... and now they're practically getting zero interest on the money."
Ariel Investments Vice Chairman Charles Bobrinskoy told CNBC the Fed deserves to be criticized for missing opportunities to raise interest rates and for hurting savers and pension plans. But he said it is "dangerous" and "not healthy" for Trump to question the Fed's integrity.
"I don't think Janet Yellen is making her decisions based on trying to help Obama or Clinton. I think they have a view that the world economy is weak enough that it's not a great time to raise rates. I don't happen to share that view, but I don't think this is political," he told CNBC's "Squawk on the Street" on Monday.
As a real estate businessman, Trump said: "I love low interest rates," but for the good of the nation, rates should be higher.
"If I refinance something, I can get money for almost nothing," Trump said. But knocking Obama for the national debt going to $19.5 trillion under his watch, Trump said the debt needs to be reduced because higher rates would make interest payments exorbitant.
"These crazy, low interest rates, they're not always going to be this way ... because of market [conditions]," he said.
— CNBC's Tom DiChristopher contributed to this story.
Minneapolis Federal Reserve President Neel Kashkari rejected Donald Trump's charges that politics influence the Federal Reserve's monetary policy.
"Politics simply does not come up," the Republican Fed governor told CNBC's "Squawk Box" on Monday. "We look at the economic data and ... everyone around the table is committed to achieving our dual mandate" of employment and inflation.
Minutes earlier, Trump told CNBC the Fed is refraining from raising rates due to pressure from President Barack Obama.
"The interest rates are kept down by President Obama," the GOP presidential candidate said. "I have no doubt that that's the reason they are being kept down."
While Kashkari said he avoids commenting on short-term monetary policy decisions, he said he is paying close attention to inflation.
"Overall I think my outlook is still for moderate economic growth," said Kashkari, a nonvoting member of the Fed's policymaking committee. He said a little bit less than 2 percent for the year "feels about right."
Investors have been focused on whether the Fed will hike rates again. It meets next week.
"My view is there doesn't seem to be huge urgency to do anything frankly," Kashkari added.
The average price of gasoline in the U.S. is up four cents over the past three weeks to $2.21 a gallon for regular grade.
Industry analyst Trilby Lundberg said Sunday that higher crude oil costs caused refiners and retailers to bump up their prices.
The average price is 23 cents lower than a year ago.
The Lundberg Survey found the average price of midgrade unleaded is $2.49 a gallon, and the average price of premium is $2.71 a gallon.
The highest average price for regular gas in the contiguous U.S. is $2.71 a gallon in San Francisco. The lowest is $1.91 in Jackson, Mississippi.
The U.S. average diesel price is $2.39 per gallon, up about four cents from three weeks ago.
President Barack Obama is meeting with the top four leaders of Congress ahead of a month's end deadline to fund the government or face a shutdown.
Lawmakers and the White House also are maneuvering toward a deal to fund the fight against the Zika virus amid warnings from government scientists that the money has essentially run out.
Obama's priorities for a lame-duck session of Congress may also be on the table at the White House Monday afternoon. These include a 12-nation Asia free-trade deal that is languishing on Capitol Hill.
Obama invited the GOP leaders, House Speaker Paul Ryan and Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, and their Democratic counterparts, House Democratic leader Nancy Pelosi and Senate Democratic leader Harry Reid.
With the Federal Reserve powerless to do much more than it already is, the best route to faster U.S. economic growth is through non-monetary policy approaches such as immigration and tax reform, a top Fed official argued on Monday.
In a 5,100-word essay released just after midnight, Minneapolis Federal Reserve Bank President Neel Kashkari noted that the U.S. labor market is "closer to normal" but that inflation is still below the Fed's 2-percent target and economic growth is well below precrisis norms.
"Monetary policy is largely doing what it can to support a robust recovery, and what remains are fiscal and regulatory policies," Kashkari wrote in the essay, published on the last day before Fed officials enter a weeklong communications blackout prior to each policy-setting meeting.
Fed policymakers next meet on Sept. 20-21.
Kashkari sketched out a wide range of possible reasons for slow U.S. economic growth, concluding that the most likely causes are an aging population, psychological scarring from the financial crisis that makes households and businesses unwilling to take risks, and "lackluster technological innovation."
To address those problems, he said, the government could boost spending on basic research, rebuild worn-out infrastructure, streamline regulations and the tax code, and otherwise take small steps with little downside risk and plenty of potential.
"Another promising policy is immigration reform, especially for high-skilled workers," Kashkari wrote.
But government, and the Fed, should be wary of policy change that poses too much potential for harm, he argued. Raising the Fed's inflation target is one such approach, he suggested; massive government spending is another.
"I am skeptical that a large-scale expansion of government spending by itself is the best way forward, since larger fiscal deficits will lead to higher expected future taxes, which could further undermine private sector confidence," he wrote.
Fed officials in recent months have stepped up calls for structural fixes to the economic doldrums, saying that monetary policy alone is not enough.
EXCLUSIVE: Neel Kashkari will appear on CNBC's "Squawk Box" at 8 a.m. ET Monday.
Those figuring that the Fed still might hike rates in September are getting one more bite at the apple.
As the week drew to a close and the Fed's "quiet period" before meetings was about to settle in, investors recoiled over news that the central bank's most dovish official, Governor Lael Brainard, will be delivering a previously unannounced speech Monday at The Chicago Council on Global Affairs.
The news sent a chill through markets Friday, with major stock market averages taking a beating and short-term government bond yields and the U.S. dollar moving higher, and it set off yet another round of speculation over whether the Fed is ready to come off its historically loose monetary policy. The S&P 500 was down more than 1 percent Friday afternoon, on track to close with its biggest percentage move since July 8.
"When a market is quiet, it's susceptible to rumors, whether we're talking about a path to freeze oil production or whether the Fed is going to raise rates in September," said Quincy Krosby, market strategist at Prudential Financial. "This may be a market that has too much time on its hands right now."
Indeed, the guessing game over whether the Fed might enact its first rate rise since December and only its second tightening in more than a decade has set off a fever pitch of horse trading.
At one point Friday morning, markets put the chance of a hike later this month as high as 30 percent before backing off. The probability had been reduced amid a week's worth of poor economic data, including the worst services reading in six years, a contraction in manufacturing and a weaker-than-expected nonfarm payrolls report.
Federal Reserve  Governor Daniel Tarullo told CNBC on Friday he wants to see more evidence of sustained inflation before considering an interest rate increase. But he added he can't rule out a hike this year.
Tarullo, a voting member on the central bank's policymaking panel, said because of false starts on inflation, he'd like to see a rise in personal consumption expenditures closer to the Fed's 2 percent target. "We're not running a hot economy," he said.
He said the economy also has room to create jobs, when considering the unemployment rate has been rather steady while nonfarm payrolls have increased, presumably drawing on slack in the employment market. "No one knows where full employment is," he said.
"Over the last year ... the unemployment rate has remained just about stable, while we've had about a million jobs above the replacement needs," he added. "Remember our mandate is maximum employment not some constructed view of full employment."
Tarullo said investors should look at the big economic picture, not just each economic report, and that the Fed needs to look forward, not backward, when considering monetary policy.
The Federal Reserve, long hesitant to raise U.S. interest rates, increasingly faces risks if it waits too much longer so a gradual policy tightening is likely appropriate, a top Fed official said on Friday.
In another sign that a U.S. rate hike is approaching, Boston Fed President Eric Rosengren said "risks to the forecast are becoming increasingly two-sided." That means that while a slowdown overseas remains a concern, the U.S. economy has proven resilient and could even overheat if Fed policy remains unchanged for too much longer, he said.
Rosengren, an historically dovish Fed policymaker who has become more confident about hiking rates this year, cited Britain's vote to leave the European Union as an example of U.S. resistance to shocks from abroad. "There are also longer-term risks from significantly overshooting the U.S. economy's growth," he said.
"If we want to ensure that we remain at full employment, gradual tightening is likely to be appropriate," said Rosengren, a voter on the Fed's policy committee this year.
"A reasonable case can be made for continuing to pursue a gradual normalization of monetary policy," he added in prepared remarks to the South Shore Chamber of Commerce in Quincy, Massachusetts.
The Fed lifted rates from near zero last December — the first rate hike in nearly a decade — but has since stood pat given an economic slump at home and volatile markets overseas. While investors and economists see a slight chance of a hike at a Fed policy meeting in two weeks, a move in December is seen as more likely.
Rosengren did not mention whether he expects a rate hike before year end, yet the message appeared to fall in line with that of Fed Chair Janet Yellen who said last month that the case was "strengthening" to raise rates.
The "modest" wage pressures so far this year mean the labor market is tightening and could well exceed "full employment" next year, Rosengren said. For the rest of this year, U.S. GDP growth will likely rebound and run above a 2-percent rate over the next two quarters, he added.
U.S. fund investors are bolstering their bets that the Federal Reserve will bypass an interest-rate increase later this month by pouring new cash into corporate bonds and emerging markets as well as U.S. stocks.
Investment-grade bond funds nabbed $2.8 billion during the week through Sept. 7, Lipper data showed on Thursday, the best result for those products since the week through July 13 and adding to a near-unbroken streak of inflows since March.
"The main driver we're seeing out there in the market is the Fed, and trying to read the Fed," said Pat Keon, research analyst for Thomson Reuters Lipper. "The general consensus is no for September."
Corporate debt has become a hot commodity amid increasingly negative bond returns and expectations that the U.S. Federal Reserve will keep interest rates low for a while.
Rising rates erode bond prices. Fed officials have sought in recent weeks to revive expectations of a rate hike this year, perhaps as soon as their Sept. 20-21 policy meeting, but some weak U.S. economic data seemed to suggest such a move might be unlikely.
Emerging markets continued to shine, with equity funds focused on the sector taking in $439 million, their 10th straight week netting cash.
Developing market debt funds added $293 million, their 11th week of inflows in the past 12. Higher rates raise borrowing costs for indebted emerging markets. Those countries often borrow in U.S. dollars, which often rise in value alongside rates. U.S. funds focused on domestic shares, like the SPDR S&P 500 ETF, took in $609 million. That contrasts with international stock funds offered in the United States, which posted $879 million in outflows.
Overall, U.S.-based taxable bond funds took in $3.4 billion in cash during the week, Lipper said. Yet investors did continue to cut exposure to so-called "bond proxies," relatively high-yielding segments of the stock market that could see a pullback if rates rise. Utilities sector funds, for instance, recorded their sixth straight week of outflows, totaling $333 million.
Higher rates could make it harder for such companies to borrow. At the same time, yields on bonds could rise, drawing away investors from such stocks to bonds. fifth straight week of inflows.
The Fed will be staying lower for longer — a lot longer, in fact, if a forecast from a major private equity player is accurate.
With the market wondering whether the U.S. central bank will hike rates at its Sept. 20-21 meeting, private equity giant KKR believes those anticipating that the Fed will resume its tightening cycle anytime soon are misreading statements from Chair Janet Yellen  and others.
In fact, KKR said the Fed is on a long-term dovish cycle unlikely to change for years.
The firm specifically cites remarks that Yellen made at the Jackson Hole, Wyoming, summit in late August, when she said the "neutral" funds rate, or the level that maintains an economic equilibrium, is lower than the Fed and the market had thought and "could stay low for a prolonged time."
"Not surprisingly, given all these types of remarks as well as sluggish growth, the fed funds rate is now below 1 percent and we think it ... could trend below 1 percent until at least 2020," Henry H. McVey, KKR's head of global macro and asset allocation, said in a report for clients.
If the transportation industry is any indicator — and it usually is — then the economy could be on the brink of a downturn.
When the economy is on the decline, the transportation sector is one of the first things to go. According to a report by the U.S. Bureau of Transportation Statistics, shifts in its index that tracks train, truck, boat and plane activity occur before changes in economic growth, leading the wider economy by about four months.
The index has taken a negative turn starting in late 2015 and into the summer of 2016, according to CNBC calculations. While true turning points are usually identified after the fact, the recent downward momentum could signal a similar movement in the economy as a whole.
Bank of America CEO Brian Moynihan is bullish on the state of the U.S. consumer, he told CNBC in an exclusive interview Thursday.
"As you look at the month of August, which we just got the final details on, it'll be the strongest consumer spending growth in debit and credit cards year-over-year this year," Moynihan said, adding that "the year-to-date consumers on our debit and credit cards are spending 4.7 percent more than they did last year, and the pace is accelerating. So, the consumer is in very good shape credit-quality-wise, spending-wise."
That positive outlook comes after the pace of consumer loan growth across the financial sector in the second quarter had caused concern for some investors, but Moynihan was upbeat.
"The consumer loans that we're putting on today, I'd say, compared to a year ago are pretty much the same. Compared to 10 years ago, much better quality," he said. "But there's still plenty of opportunity to grow."
Moynihan also said that Bank of America's recent cost-cutting initiative had further to go: "If you think about the second quarter of '16 versus second quarter of '11, we took out $20 billion of operating expenses on an annual basis. People then thought the costs would go back up. But no, there's still more we can do on the core basis."
Those reduced costs have been largely enabled by digitization, said Moynihan, who noted that online and mobile banking have allowed Bank of America to reduce its number of branches by 20 percent over the last "seven or eight years" and to increase its earnings despite a "tough rate environment."
All the U.S. banks have had to contend with the Federal Reserve's policy — now a decade old — of maintaining extremely low interest rates. Moynihan said a rate hike of 0.25 percent would be worth roughly $1 billion to Bank of America's net interest income.
On the commercial side, Moynihan said credit quality is "pretty solid," though there is "some nervousness" among clients ahead of the U.S. election.
Beijing pulled out all of the stops to ensure smooth and pleasant G20 proceedings in the eastern city of Huangzhou. Security was reportedly tight as a drum. The locals were given a "seven-day public holiday" and encouraged to clear out of town, and factories in the vicinity were temporarily shuttered to improve air quality during the summit.
Reportedly among those factories were a few dozen regional steel mills.
Oddly enough, permanently closing steel mills in China is exactly what many G20 states would welcome, particularly after a meeting that bore few significant policy developments. The massive Chinese steel industry has been the target of a lot of scrutiny in recent years. It has experienced a breakneck expansion since 2000 when it had an annual production capacity of 150 metric tons (MT). By 2015 it had grown to 1,140 MT.
That capacity expansion and China's tendency to use it, regardless of market direction, has made it responsible for the lion's share of the world's steel overcapacity problem. A lot of bankruptcies and layoffs around the world have their roots in recent waves of artificially cheap steel from China.
The numbers are truly staggering. A new paper from the Duke University Center on Globalization, Governance & Competitiveness notes China's production capacity increase since 2007 is equivalent to seven times the United States' total steel production in 2015. Some of this Chinese production has fed into its massive infrastructure and construction projects.
But let's get real; most of it has been led along by a system of state capitalism that provides mills with free land, low-cost loans, and sometimes outright subsidization, among other forms of financial support. Nearly all of the Chinese steel industry's major players are state-owned enterprises.
That state-owned reality means production doesn't slow down as much as it should when the economy cools, often despite financial losses. Mills continue to pay their taxes, and millions of Chinese workers stay employed, which is important for the country's internal stability. But this has left the world awash in steel that no one asked for, and steelworkers everywhere out of jobs – nearly 15,000 of them in America alone.
The stock market is a 'decent' bet, but there are no screaming buys, said Charles Schwab's chief investment strategist, Liz Ann Sonders.
"I do think the market could continue to grind higher, but not without some drama," Sonders told attendees at the Morningstar ETF Conference on Wednesday. "An ongoing secular bull market is still a decent bet."
Under Sonders' analysis, there are no flashing buy signals for investors. Schwab is neutral on stocks in the United States, developed and emerging markets. "The best advice we can give investors is to stay with your long-term, normal allocation across the equity asset classes," she said.
The odds of a Fed interest-rate hike in 2016 have decreased over the past week, and not just because of Friday's job report.  In fact, the odds of a rate hike by the December meeting are now down to just over 40 percent, according to the CME Group's FedWatch Tool (which uses Fed Fund Futures prices to predict monetary policy).  It seems like just yesterday that a December rate hike, at the latest, was pretty much a done deal.  So what's driving the reduction in expectations?
It should first be noted that the reasons behind the Fed's about-face are less important than its predictable propensity to revert back to a dovish posture at the first sign of trouble. It is true that the Fed's "highly accommodative" monetary policy was appropriate in the immediate aftermath of the financial crisis.  Desperate times called for desperate measures.
But its unwillingness to begin the normalization process in earnest is creating significant risks for the long-term health of the economy.  Having said that, we think three issues will cause the Fed to defer rate hikes until 2017: deteriorating economic data; the spike in 90-day LIBOR; and increased election uncertainty.
First, incoming economic data has deteriorated over the past few days.  The employment report for August, which was released last Friday, was weaker than expected.  Not only did job growth drop materially, but wage growth was the slowest since March and the average work week was the lowest since February, 2014.  Taken collectively, these data points don't reflect the fairly popular narrative that the labor market is approaching full employment.
There is clearly still some slack in the labor market despite the low unemployment rate of 4.9 percent. This week we learned that the ISM Non-manufacturing Index (aka the ISM services index), which came in at 51.4 for August, was the lowest since February, 2010.
Why is this important?  Because services represent the lion's share of our economy.  In fact, the services sector accounted for 150,000 of the 151,000 jobs created in August, according to the U.S. Labor Department.  And while a reading of 51.4 is still above the line of demarcation between expansion and contraction (which is 50), the rapid slowing does not engender confidence when viewed in combination with the ISM Manufacturing Index reading for August (which did fall into contractionary territory).
Could the deterioration in these readings simply represent some combination of a seasonal slowdown, Brexit worries and election jitters?  Sure, but the evidence certainty doesn't support the case for near-term interest rate increases by the Fed.
Federal Reserve Bank President of Richmond Jeffrey Lacker said on Wednesday there is a 'strong case' for a rate hike in September.
Lacker said the recent employment and gross domestic product numbers point to a recovery in the second half of 2016.
Lacker argued last week that Fed interest rate policy was likely too low and he told reporters in Washington on Wednesday the Fed needs to "make up ground" on rate policy.
— Reuters contributed to this report.
Monthly job openings — a gauge of the U.S. economy that's closely watched by Janet Yellen — increased in July, the Bureau of Labor Statistics said on Wednesday.
Employers posted 5.9 million job openings in July, a rate of 3.9 percent, according to the Job Openings and Labor Turnover Summary (JOLTS) report. That compares to 5.62 million job openings in June, according to Thomson Reuters.
The private sector, particularly professional and business services, had more job openings in July, the report said.
The monthly report from the Labor Department — often eyed by Yellen, chair of the Federal Reserve — is a key barometer of economic conditions, measuring job postings in different sectors, and the number of hires and layoffs.
The hiring rate was steady at 3.6 percent, or 5.2 million in July. The separation rate was also little changed in July at 4.9 million — a rate of 3.4 percent.
About the same number of Americans — 3 million, or a rate of 2.1 percent — quit their jobs in July, as was reported in June.
The quits rate can serve as a measure of confidence in the economy by gauging workers' willingness or ability to leave jobs, according to the Center for Economic and Policy Research.
Larry Hatheway, head of multi-asset portfolio solutions and chief economist at GAM, a global asset management firm with more than $110 billion in investments, joined CNBC PRO to discuss the key investment trends he expects to emerge in the next 12 months, including a potentially violent move in interest rates.
"What we could see at the turn of the year is an interesting scenario where the Fed might be preparing the groundwork for the next rate increase ... and if at the same time the ECB were signaling that it might see an end to its bond-purchase program, those two things taken in tandem could actually be the catalyst for an upward move in interest rates taking us back to perhaps the levels we were at the end of last year ... 50 to 75 basis points above present levels," said Hatheway.
In this wide-ranging exclusive conversation, the former chief economist at UBS' investment bank also touches on:
PRO subscribers can also read the entire transcript of the exclusive interview below.
Moody's Analytics likes Hillary Clinton's economic plan much more than it did Donald Trump's.
A little more than a month after Moody's said Trump's proposals would cause a "lengthy recession," the firm took a look under the hood at the Democratic nominee's plans and said the prospects were more encouraging.
"Secretary Clinton's economic proposals will result in a somewhat stronger U.S. economy," Mark Zandi, Moody's chief economist, and two others wrote in the report. "Near-term growth is supported by the stimulus provided by her spending plans in combination with much stronger foreign immigration."
Indeed, Clinton's proposals call for $2.2 trillion in new spending over a 10-year period, with plans that would allow in about a million more immigrants a year. She's looking to boost spending on infrastructure and education, as well as providing paid family and medical leave, increasing the minimum wage, and investing in economic development and research.
To pay for her proposals, she's calling for a near-equal amount of taxation, with the burden placed primarily on the shoulders of corporations and those making more than $300,000 a year. Clinton's plans rely primarily on Keynesian demand-side solutions, while Trumps' are more focused on supply-side tax cuts.
"Evident from her proposals is the belief that the country needs to invest more in education, infrastructure and workers, and that the well-to-do, and to a lesser degree financial institutions and businesses, should pay for it," Moody's wrote. "While her budget arithmetic does not completely add up, it is pretty close, and the nation's debt load under her plan is no different than under current law."
The market shouldn't be ruling out the possibility the Federal Reserve will hike interest rates again this year, William Dudley, president of the New York Fed, said on Monday.
"Market expectations, to my eye, derived from federal funds futures prices, which price in no more than one 25 basis-point rate hike through the end of 2017, … appear to be too complacent," he told a conference of central bankers and financial regulators on the Indonesian island of Bali.
Dudley said he expected the U.S. economy to grow around 2 percent annualized over the next 18 months, boosted by improved consumption.
"If the upcoming information validates my view of the outlook, then U.S. monetary policy will need to move at a faster pace than implied by futures prices to a more neutral posture as the labor market tightens further and U.S. inflation rises," Dudley said.
Additionally, Dudley noted that the market didn't appear to be giving much weight to the possibility that the economy could grow faster than expected.
"The risks to growth from Brexit and other international developments could fade away. If such events were to occur, this might necessitate an even faster pace of adjustment," he said.
"It's premature to rule out further monetary policy tightening this year. It depends on the data, broadly defined, and as we all know, that's not something one can predict with any great accuracy," he said.
Last week, the Federal Open Market Committee kept its overnight interest rate target in the 0.25 percent to 0.5 percent range, but noted that the labor market had "strengthened" and said other indicators were pointing to growth.
The Fed last hiked its overnight rate in December after keeping it anchored near zero for seven years.
While 2016's anemic growth level isn't an automatic disqualifier for an interest rate increase, the bar just got a little higher.
Friday's gross domestic product reading fell below even the dimming hopes on Wall Street. The 1.2 percent growth rate in the second quarter combined with a downward revision to the first three months of the year to produce an average growth rate of just 1 percent.
In total, it was far below the Wall Street forecast of 2.6 percent second-quarter growth and didn't lend a lot of credence to a Fed statement earlier this week that sounded more confident on the economy. (The Atlanta Fed was much closer, forecasting 1.8 percent.)
In short, they are not numbers upon which a rate hawk would want to hang one's hat.
"We're tired of talking about rate hikes when it's not going to happen for a while," Diane Swonk of DS Economics told CNBC. "I really think the Fed is sidelined until the end of the year.
Or, perhaps, longer.
Market expectations for the next Fed hike had been sliding as the release of the GDP report got closer, and they plunged afterward. The fed funds futures market Friday morning was indicating just a 34.4 percent chance of a rate rise this year, with the next move pushed out until well into 2017. A day earlier, the futures market had moved to just over 50 percent for a 2016 move. The Fed last hiked in December 2015, which was the first move after eight years of keeping the overnight rate near zero.
To be sure, GDP growth is just one input for the central bank. Ostensibly, the Fed's mandate is to ensure full employment and price stability, and it has come close to achieving the former while continually falling short of the latter.
Friday's data, despite the weak headline number, offered some hope.
The GDP miss came in good part because of a tumble in inventories, which subtracted 1.16 percentage points. At the same time, consumer spending showed a robust 4.2 percent gain, the best number in a year and a half. Separately, the employment cost index, a Labor Department measure that is said to be watched closely by Fed Chair Janet Yellen, rose at a 0.6 percent quarterly rate, in line with expectations and reflecting an annualized increase of 2.3 percent in employee compensation costs.
But the Fed has been warning about weak business investment, and Friday's data showed those concerns were well-founded.
Business investment fell 2.2 percent, its third consecutive quarterly decline. Gross private domestic investment tumbled 9.7 percent, and residential investment, which had been on the rise, reversed course and declined 6.1 percent, the first decrease since early 2014.
Those numbers act as a counterweight to the declining jobless rate, which is down to 4.9 percent.
"What is really worrying is that pace has still been enough to reduce the unemployment rate further, suggesting that the economy's potential growth rate could conceivably be close to zero," Paul Ashworth, chief U.S. economist at Capital Economics, said in a note. The headline jobless rate has been declining, in part, due to a generational low in labor force participation, suggesting that outside a decline in labor slack, there's little moving economic growth.
As a result of Friday's news, Capital sliced its full-year GDP expectation from 2 percent to 1.5 percent.
In a year when the Fed was supposed to be on an orderly rate-hike pace of one per quarter, Wall Street now is talking about an economy that's not going anywhere and a central bank that will follow suit.
"The U.S. consumer is the only thing keeping the U.S. economy out of a recession and we've heard just this week the worries over auto sales and weakness for restaurants," Peter Boockvar, chief market analyst at The Lindsey Group, said in a note. "I'm not calling for a recession, but will zero to slightly negative growth feel much different than 1 percent growth?"
The U.S. economy grew far less than expected in the second quarter as inventories fell for the first time since 2011, but a surge in consumer spending pointed to underlying strength.
Gross domestic product increased at a 1.2 percent annual rate after rising by a downwardly revised 0.8 percent pace in the first quarter, the Commerce Department said on Friday. The economy was previously reported to have grown at a 1.1 percent pace in the first quarter.
Economists polled by Reuters had forecast GDP growth rising at a 2.6 percent rate in the last quarter.
While the drop in inventories weighed on GDP growth last quarter, that is likely to provide a boost to output for the rest of the year. The Federal Reserve said on Wednesday that near-term risks to the economic outlook had "diminished."
The government also published revisions to data going back to 2013 through the first quarter of 2016. The revisions partially addressed measurement issues, which have tended to lower first-quarter GDP estimates. GDP growth in the first quarter of 2015 was revised sharply higher to a 2.0 percent rate from the previously reported 0.6 percent pace.
U.S. government statisticians have found evidence that efforts to adjust the country's measure of economic growth for seasonal fluctuations have not been fully successful.
The Bureau of Economic Analysis, the government agency that constructs gross domestic product data, said this week that a component-by-component investigation found evidence in quarterly GDP data over different time spans.
The number of Americans filing for unemployment benefits rose more than expected last week, but the underlying trend continued to point to sustained labor market strength.
Initial claims for state unemployment benefits increased 14,000 to a seasonally adjusted 266,000 for the week ended July 23, the Labor Department said on Thursday. Claims for the prior week were revised to show 1,000 fewer applications received than previously reported.
Economists polled by Reuters had forecast initial claims rising to 260,000 in the latest week. Claims have now been below 300,000, a threshold associated with a healthy labor market, for 73 consecutive weeks, the longest stretch since 1973.
Prices of U.S. Treasurys were unchanged after the data. U.S. stock futures were trading lower and the dollar was weaker against a basket of currencies.
The claims data tend to be volatile around this time of the year when automobile manufacturers normally idle assembly lines for retooling. Some, however, often keep production running, which can throw off the model the government uses to strip out seasonal fluctuations from the data.
The U.S. advance June goods trade deficit came in at $63.3 billion, widening from the revised $61.1 billion trade gap reported a month earlier.
The Federal Reserve opted Wednesday not to raise interest rates, despite painting a rosier economic picture than it did just a month ago.
As expected, the Federal Open Market Committee kept its overnight interest rate target in the 0.25 percent to 0.5 percent range. However, it noted a labor market that has "strengthened" and said other indicators were pointing to growth.
"Job gains were strong in June following weak growth in May," the FOMC said in its post-meeting statement, referring to nonfarm payrolls that rose from 11,000 to 287,000 over the one-month period. "On balance, payrolls and other labor market indicators point to some increase in labor utilization in recent months."
On the downside, the statement noted that inflation remains mired and is "expected to remain low in the near term" and then rise as the decline in energy prices turns and the labor market continues to strengthen.
"Near-term risks to the economic outlook have diminished," the statement said, expressing a sentiment that had not been in the June missive. At last month's meeting, the committee scaled back its economic projections and slashed its previous forecast of four rate hikes this year to two.
"They clearly have set the stage for a potential rate hike in September, but they didn't want to commit themselves," said Kathy Jones, chief fixed income strategist at Charles Schwab. "You can tell they're feeling a bit more confident."
The statement said "household spending has been growing strongly," an upgrade from language in June, but noted that business investment has been soft, a point underscored by data Wednesday that showed durable goods spending that disappointed again.
In June, the Fed lamented that the jobs market "slowed" and inflation indicators actually had declined. That statement reset market expectations for rate hikes.
"The statement has a bit better tone, reflecting significantly better data relative to expectations over the last six weeks," said Joseph LaVorgna, chief U.S. economist at Deutsche Bank. "However, the Fed has gotten wise to the fragility of markets. They kept in that they're still monitoring financial conditions, so even though many things broke positively for the Fed since their last meeting, they want to be extra cautious."
Financial markets were assigning virtually no chance for a hike at this meeting, and the Fed has been sharply attuned to those expectations. However, a fairly hawkish central bank could increase those expectations for future months.
Heading into the conclusion of the two-day meeting, traders had been giving a September hike just a 20.9 percent chance, with a near-coin flip 49.5 percent probability of one before the end of the year. The Fed last hiked its overnight rate in December after keeping it anchored near zero for seven years. The funds rate most recently was at 0.4 percent.
Fed officials had been expressing angst over geopolitical developments, particularly June's Brexit vote. Concern over global events, however, was absent from the statement.
The committee approved the decision with only one dissent, from Kansas City's Esther George, who continued to push for a quarter-point hike.
The Fed's decision to hold the line comes as concerns increase over global growth. Earlier in the day, Fitch Ratings said it had cut its forecast for Fed rate hikes from two to one this year and from three to two in 2017. The agency also said it expected central banks to be aggressive elsewhere in the world.
This is a breaking news story. Check back here for updates.
It's no surprise that the Federal Reserve opted to keep rates unchanged at the July Federal Open Market Committee meeting; the Fed will maintain the current range of 0.25 percent to 0.50 percent.
Also as expected, the Fed improved its assessment of the labor market, noting that conditions have "strengthened."  While recognizing that payroll growth was "weak" in May, the Fed specifically highlighted the strength in the June employment report that followed.  On balance, however, the Fed noted that labor market indicators suggest just "some increase" in labor utilization – a positive but hardly robust endorsement of recent labor market activity.
According to the July FOMC statement, household spending is "strong,"  however, business investment is "soft."  Without strength in business investment and development resulting in robust job and income creation, going forward, there is little hope of maintaining even a moderate pace of spending let alone gaining momentum in consumer activity from here.
Additionally, in the July statement, the Fed continued to acknowledge the still-sluggishly low level of inflation continuing to "run below the committee's 2 percent longer-run objective," and that market-based measures of inflation compensation remain "low."  While some may argue the Fed's mandate of full-employment is nearly met, the other half of the equation, stable prices, remains unequivocally unachieved.
Overall, the Fed remains optimistic that given "gradual" adjustments of the federal funds rate, the economy will continue to expand and labor market indicators will strengthen.  Furthermore, while inflation is currently below the Fed's longer-term target, price pressures are expected (as they have been for years!) to mount as the impact of "transitory" energy and import price effects dissipate.
On balance, the Fed noted that "near-term risks" to the Fed's outlook for the economy have "diminished."  No doubt the recent improvement in the June non-farm payrolls report and the return of relative calm to global financial markets have helped ease concerns of Armageddon, emboldening the hawks on the Committee.  Nevertheless, the lingering fragility of the domestic economy coupled with still-ample uncertainty has not eradicated said "risks,"  keeping policy makers cautiously optimistic.
On the international front, the July statement noted that international developments will continue to be monitored closely, however, no further alarm or concern was added to the language surrounding developments abroad.
The sole dissent was Esther L. George who preferred to raise the target range for the Federal funds rate to 0.50 percent to 0.75 percent.
Here's the bottom Line: Given the still-lingering, albeit diminished, potential downside risks to the Fed's internal forecast for further improvement in the labor market and inflation coupled with recent market-moving events abroad, the committee faces no sense of urgency to further adjust policy.  In fact, like the Bank of England and European Central Bank, given the heightened level of uncertainty in today's marketplace, the Fed is likely to remain on the sideline for longer than expected, waiting for further information and data to suggest the U.S. economy has returned to a sustainable moderate pathway and that the risks of contagion from developments abroad have been extinguished.
While at first glance the July statement may appear to be a bit more rosy and potentially suggesting the Fed is ready to continue with raising rates near-term, the statement still remains void of key components needed to justify a further removal of accommodation; while improved from significant weakness at the start of the year, the committee remains incapable of proclaiming outright strength in the underlying economy with clear upward momentum in inflation, improved conditions for business investment or confidence in a sustained healthy pathway for the domestic economy going forward.
Without clear indication the U.S. economy is on firm, sustainable footing, the Fed will and should continue to exercise patience.  After December's mishap, it is clear that preemptive policy moves (rate hikes) based on expectations of strength is not good enough, said improvement must be realized. While "some increase" in activity and "diminished" risks is a step in the right direction, there is no doubt the Fed continues to face unease surrounding the health of the domestic economy and concern regarding volatility abroad suggesting rates are likely to be much lower for much longer.
The Federal Reserve acknowledged an improving economy, but gave no insight into when it might hike rates, leaving markets to continue to focus on a December time frame as most likely.
Some economists said the Fed left the door open for a September hike, but market reaction was muted and strategists said it still looks like the markets believe December is more likely.
"They upgraded the economy a little bit, which they should have because the data is better. They maintain that they're monitoring global economic and financial conditions. They didn't hint at September at all. I think that gets everyone focused on Jackson Hole to see what's next," said John Canally, market strategist and economist at LPL Financial.
The Federal Reserve on Wednesday opted not to raise interest rates, and according to several experts, the central bank missed its moment to do so long ago.
Danielle DiMartino Booth, a former advisor to the Dallas Fed, told CNBC's "Power Lunch" there have been many, many opportunities to hike rates. Now its labor markets conditions index, which gauges the health of the job market, has been negative six months running, she said.
"[Chair Janet Yellen] doesn't know what to do. They don't know what to do," Booth said.
"They're scared stiff right now," she added, noting oil prices and the possibility of inverting the yield curve are probably concerns.
David Kelly, chief global strategist for JPMorgan Funds, agrees the Fed should have hiked rates a long time ago.
"They've never found the perfect moment, but you never get perfection in life. I think they've made a big mistake by not moving sooner," he told "Power Lunch."
Analysts are skeptical about the Fed's next move after it chose not to change interest rates in July, leaving its benchmark federal funds rate in a range of 0.25 percent to 0.50 percent.
On Wednesday, the Fed said the labor market has gotten stronger while economic activity expanded at a moderate rate since its last meeting. Esther George of the Kansas City Federal Reserve Bank was the only dissenting vote.
Analysts are questioning whether there will be a September hike.
"It's always a live meeting and a September hike is still on the table, but our forecast is for a December rate hike. Of course, this is a Fed that's going to be very cautious," Anika Khan, the senior economist for Wells Fargo, said on "Power Lunch." "The good news is that overall economic growth will likely post a solid reading in the second-quarter on the back of solid consumer spending."
Other analysts say the Fed's decision was a move to change September expectations.
"I think they're trying to nudge expectations of a September rate hike off the ground here because the data could get better, and they don't want to shock expectations later," David Kelly, chief global strategist for J.P. Morgan Funds, said.
The Fed said that job gains were strong in June and that household spending was growing strongly.
It also mentioned that the business investment remains soft.
"They could also have downgraded capital spending if they wanted to, but they didn't do so," Kelly said,  "They're clearly trying to send a signal here that our worst fears have not yet been realized and there's very little wrong with the economy here."
The doves have taken flight on Wall Street with expectations for continued easy monetary policy from the Federal Reserve soaring to new heights.
Respondents to the CNBC July Fed Survey now forecast just one rate hike this year, down from a 1.5 average in the June survey and nearly three rate hikes expected at the beginning of 2016.
The next hike, according to the 43 respondents, won't come until December, three months later than the previous forecast. The outlook for the Fed funds rate fell to just 60 basis points this year, 1.2 percent next year and 2.4 percent long term. The survey was conducted on Thursday and Friday.
"Brexit will keep the Fed from acting next week, and given the Fed's proclivity to keep rates unchanged before a U.S. presidential election, we won't see a rate hike until December at the earliest," Rob Morgan, chief investment officer of Sethi Financial Group, wrote in response to the survey.
Consumers were feeling a bit more optimistic than expected in July, as a key economic indicator held gains from June, according to a survey released on Tuesday.
The Consumer Confidence Index hit 97.3 in July, The Conference Board said. Economists expected consumer confidence to fall to 95.8 in July, according to a Thomson Reuters consensus estimate.
June's consumer confidence reading was revised down to to 97.4 from 98.
The survey, a closely followed barometer of consumer attitudes, measures sentiment toward business conditions, short-term outlook, personal finances and jobs.
"Consumers were slightly more positive about current business and labor market conditions, suggesting the economy will continue to expand at a moderate pace," Lynn Franco, director of economic indicators at The Conference Board, said in a statement. "Expectations regarding business and labor market conditions, as well as personal income prospects, declined slightly as consumers remain cautiously optimistic about growth in the near-term."
The pace of U.S. home price gains cooled off in May, coming in below consensus estimates, as regional patterns were seen shifting, according to a monthly report.
The S&P CoreLogic Case-Shiller 20-City Composite index rose 5.2 percent year over year, versus expectations for a reading of 5.7 percent. That marked a sequential slowdown from April's 5.4 percent increase.
Still, home-price appreciation continues throughout much of the United States, David M. Blitzer, managing director and chairman of the Index Committee at S&P Dow Jones Indices, said in a statement.
"Overall, housing is doing quite well. In addition to strong prices, sales of existing homes reached the highest monthly level since 2007 as construction of new homes showed continuing gains," he said.
Portland, Oregon, led the gainers with price appreciation of 12.5 percent in May. Seattle followed with a 10.7 percent increase, and Denver came in third with a 9.5 percent gain.
Outside the top three, Blitzer identified a change of fortunes for some metro areas.
"Miami and Tampa have recovered in the last few months while Las Vegas and Phoenix remain weak. When home prices began to recover, New York and Washington saw steady price growth; now both are among the weakest areas in the country," he said.
The S&P/Case-Shiller U.S. National Home Price Index, which measures all nine U.S. census divisions, was up 5 percent in April from the previous year.
This is a breaking news story. Please check back for further updates.
If you want to earn the big bucks, you may want to consider practicing medicine or law.
According to a recent report by Glassdoor, doctors and lawyers are still the nation's top-earning professionals.
To compile its list of the highest-paying jobs in America in 2016, the job search site analyzed anonymous salary reports from its users.
For a job to make the list, there had to be at least 75 reports on that job submitted over the past year. C-level jobs were excluded from the report.
Here are the 25 best-paying jobs, according to Glassdoor:
Nearly seven years after the federal minimum wage was raised to $7.25 an hour from $6.55, it has remained stagnant despite the increasingly heated debate over better pay and worker protections.
But that hasn't stopped Ken Weinstein from paying his workers more at his two restaurants in Pennsylvania, where the state minimum wage matches the federal floor.
Weinstein owns two Trolley Car Diners in Philadelphia, and decided two years ago to increase the minimum wage for his 75 employees to $8.50.
"It's a competitive thing — you certainly get better employees by paying them more," said Weinstein, who supports a $12 an hour federal minimum wage. "We have a stable workforce, and it's partly due to treating our employees well, and paying them more than our competitors."
Despite periodic increases, the buying power of the federal minimum wage hasn't kept up with inflation, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. Data show that in 1968, the federal minimum was equivalent to $10.90 in 2015 dollars, nearly $4 higher than today's rate.
The number of Americans filing for unemployment benefits unexpectedly fell last week, hitting a three-month low as the labor market continues to gather momentum.
Initial claims for state unemployment benefits slipped 1,000 to a seasonally adjusted 253,000 for the week ended July 16, the lowest reading since April, the Labor Department said on Thursday. Claims for the prior week were unrevised.
Claims are near the 43-year low of 248,000 touched in mid-April.
Economists polled by Reuters had forecast initial claims rising to 265,000 in the latest week.
Claims have now been below 300,000, a threshold associated with a healthy labor market, for 72 straight weeks, the longest stretch since 1973.
The health of the U.S. employment picture, despite the strong rebound in June, remains a work in progress and is still not inspiring much confidence.
Despite the gain of 287,000 positions last month, questions remain over the jobs market. Numbers that don't show up in the Labor Department's closely watched monthly nonfarm payrolls report undercut the strength that the headline number suggests:
Those numbers, compiled by economist David Rosenberg at wealth management firm Gluskin Sheff and experts, point not to a sector nearing full employment but rather one that remains vulnerable to the disinflation trend that is tugging on the broader economy. The result from an investing perspective is a Federal Reserve that will continue to be on hold when it comes to interest rates.
"We were told by all the pundits and media types about how great the payroll number was in June," Rosenberg said in a note, adding that "the veracity of that report is now called into question."
Rosenberg formerly was with Merrill Lynch, where he was known as one of Wall Street's most prominent bears. He moved to Gluskin Sheff in 2009 and turned bullish on the economy in early 2011. Lately, though, his comments have taken on a more pessimistic tone.
CLEVELAND — Donald Trump's campaign slogan may jibe well with many Americans, but it may be antithetical with how this Ohio city's economy has changed recently.
U.S. homebuilders lost a little faith in their market in July, as foot traffic of potential buyers thinned and construction constraints continued.
A monthly reading of builder confidence from the National Association of Home Builders dropped a point to 59. Anything above 50 is considered positive sentiment, but the index has been stuck in a very narrow range since January and is down 1 point from last July.
"We are still hearing reports from our members of scattered softness in some markets, due largely to regulatory constraints and shortages of lots and labor," said association Chairman Ed Brady, a homebuilder and developer from Bloomington, Illinois.
Builders have been facing increasing regulatory constraints, especially in some of the tighter housing markets, like San Francisco, Seattle and Denver. That keeps them from being able to develop as much land and build as many homes as they might like.
While undocumented workers are tucked into every state and nearly every corner of the U.S. economy, states with more unauthorized workers would be hit hardest by a so-called Trump wall and fewer illegal migrants.
The idea to deport millions of immigrants and erect a wall along the southern border of the United States with Mexico is an anchor in Donald Trump's presidential run. Extracting millions of unauthorized workers from the U.S. labor force and making it harder for Mexican consumers to travel to the United States to spend money are policies of concern to economists.
U.S. consumer prices increased for a fourth straight month in June as Americans paid more for housing, gasoline and health care, pointing to steadily rising inflation pressures.
A separate report showed manufacturing activity in New York State slowed in early July, after a big gain in the previous month.
The Labor Department said on Friday its Consumer Price Index rose 0.2 percent last month after a similar gain in May. In the 12 months through June, the CPI advanced 1.0 percent, matching May's increase.
The year-on-year increase is below the 1.7 percent average annual increase over the last 10 years.
Economists had forecast the CPI gaining 0.3 percent last month and advancing 1.1 percent from a year ago.
The so-called core CPI, which strips out food and energy costs, also rose 0.2 percent in June, rising by the same margin for three consecutive months. That lifted the year-on-year core CPI gain to 2.3 percent from 2.2 percent in May.
This increase is higher than the average annual rate of 1.9 percent over the past 10 years.
The Federal Reserve has a 2 percent inflation target and tracks an inflation measure which is currently at 1.6 percent. Concerns about persistently low inflation contributed to the U.S. central bank keeping interest rates unchanged last month.
The Fed raised its benchmark overnight interest rate in December for the first time in nearly a decade.
U.S. industrial production rose more than expected in June on large gains in automotive manufacturing and utility output, the Federal Reserve said on Friday, a sign that the economy was regaining momentum at the end of the second quarter.
Industrial output increased 0.6 percent last month, the strongest gain since July 2015, after an upwardly revised 0.3 percent decline in May.
Economists polled by Reuters had forecast industrial production rising 0.2 percent last month.
The industrial sector measured by the U.S. central bank comprises manufacturing, mining, and electric and gas utilities.
It has shown halting signs of improvement after a downturn over the past 18 months caused by weak global demand, a strong dollar and the fall in oil prices.
U.S. retail sales posted a healthy increase in June, another sign that consumer spending picked up in the spring.
The Commerce Department says sales at retailers and restaurants rose 0.6 percent from May after, after a 0.2 percent climb in May. Sales were up 2.7 percent from a year earlier. Excluding volatile spending on cars and auto parts, sales were up 0.7 percent.
Spending on building materials and gardening supplies surged 3.9 percent, the most since April 2010.
Consumers got off to a slow start this year, which is one reason the economy grew at a lackluster 1.1 percent annual pace from January through March. Economists expect spending to drive faster growth from April through June and the rest of the year.
Retail sales in June were expected to rise 0.1 percent, after increasing 0.5 percent a month earlier.
The U.S. government also reported the latest reading on the consumer price index, which showed a 0.3 percent increase.
Government data puts inflation at about 1 percent, and even that anemic number may overstate the true level of price growth.
Billions of online transactions are tracked on a daily basis by Adobe and show that deflation is rampant across several consumer categories. Prices are falling fast in the Adobe Digital Price Index, which measures 80 percent of all online transactions from the top 100 U.S. retailers.
The consumer price index is calculated on a monthly basis by surveying the costs of about 80,000 items, while the DPI tracks 2.2 million products every day. Online commerce makes up almost 8 percent of all retail sales, according to the Census Bureau.
Deflation in the DPI in June was stronger for discretionary spending categories like electronics and sporting goods than essentials like groceries and medical supplies, said Mickey Mericle, vice president of marketing and customer insights at Adobe. That could be a sign of reduced spending on nonessentials by cash-strapped Americans.
"When people are not seeing real wage-growth increase, what they're doing is maintaining spending on the essentials while cutting nonessentials," Mericle said. "This could be a demand issue where people are not spending enough on things like electronics, so vendors are pushing down prices."
U.S. producer prices recorded their biggest gain in a year in June as the cost of energy products and services increased, pointing to a steady build-up in inflation as the drag from a strong dollar and lower oil prices fades.
The Labor Department said on Thursday its producer price index for final demand rose 0.5 percent last month, the largest increase since May 2015, after advancing 0.4 percent in May.
In the 12 months through June, the PPI increased 0.3 percent, rising for the first time since December 2014, after slipping 0.1 percent in May.
Economists polled by Reuters had forecast the PPI gaining 0.3 percent last month and dipping 0.1 percent from a year ago.
The number of Americans filing for unemployment benefits unexpectedly held at lower levels last week, pointing to further momentum in the labor market after job growth surged in June.
Initial claims for state unemployment benefits were unchanged at a seasonally adjusted 254,000 for the week ended July 9, the Labor Department said on Thursday. Claims are near the 43-year low of 248,000 touched in mid-April.
Economists polled by Reuters had forecast initial claims rising to 265,000 in the latest week. Claims have now been below 300,000, a threshold associated with a healthy labor market, for 71 consecutive weeks, the longest stretch since 1973.
The labor market is on a strong footing, with nonfarm payrolls increasing by a robust 287,000 jobs in June, which should underpin economic growth for the rest of the year.
The Federal Reserve should not be in any hurry to raise U.S. interest rates because inflation is so low and the economy is still short of full employment, a top Fed official said on Tuesday.
"We feel like we can be patient to let the economy continue to heal before we start moving aggressively to raise rates," Minneapolis Fed President Neel Kashkari said at a Town Hall in Marquette, Michigan. "We should take our time when we go ahead and start raising rates again. There's not a huge urgency to raise rates because inflation is coming up low."
When they meet later this month Fed policymakers will evaluate a run of data, including a job increase of 287,000 in June, to gauge whether the U.S. recovery is on track.
Traders see zero chance of a rate hike this month and are betting the Fed will wait to raise rates until mid-2017, with officials like Federal Reserve Governor Daniel Tarullo saying they are unconvinced inflation is moving adequately towards the central bank's 2 percent target.
The Brexit-induced boomlet in mortgage refinances hit new highs last week.
Lower interest rates pushed total mortgage application volume up 7.2 percent last week from the previous week, according to the Mortgage Bankers Association. The seasonally adjusted reading included an adjustment for the Fourth of July holiday.
Refinance applications were entirely behind the jump, increasing 11 percent from the previous week to the highest level in three years.
Refinances had surged 21 percent the previous week and are up nearly 65 percent from the same week one year ago, when interest rates were higher. The refinance share of mortgage activity increased to 64 percent of total applications from 61.6 percent the previous week.
The sharp rebound in U.S. job growth last month eased concerns that the country's labor market had regressed, a top Federal Reserve official said on Wednesday, repeating she continues to expect gradual interest rate rises.
Cleveland Fed President Loretta Mester, speaking in Sydney, largely repeated a July 1 speech in London in which she said it was too early to judge the full effect of Britain's vote to leave the European Union on the U.S. economy.
However Mester, a relatively hawkish official who has a vote on U.S. monetary policy this year, noted the recent data on the U.S. labor market was heartening.
St. Louis Fed President James Bullard on Tuesday stuck with his view that only a single interest rate increase will be needed for the foreseeable future, despite the strong rebound in U.S. job growth in June.
Bullard, a voting member of the U.S. central bank's rate-setting committee, recently shifted his view of monetary policy, concluding that the United States had entered a persistent period of low growth, low inflation, and low unemployment.
The appropriate target interest rate for the Fed, he said, is also low, requiring only a single rate rise unless some unexpected shock moved the economy to a better or worse state.
In remarks prepared for delivery at the St. Louis Fed on Tuesday, Bullard did not mention the stronger-than-expected employment report last week that showed the economy generated 287,000 jobs in June.
But under his new view, Bullard argued that the Fed's rate outlook does not need to change until it is clear that a significant event like a recession or jump in productivity changes the "regime."
"The policy rate would likely remain essentially flat over the forecast horizon to remain consistent with the current regime," he said in the prepared presentation. He sees the appropriate federal funds rate as 0.63 percent, about a quarter point above the current effective rate of around 0.37 percent.
The Fed is not expected to raise rates at its next policy meeting later this month, as it weighs steady U.S. job growth against persistent low inflation and a series of global events that have posed risks to the economic recovery.
Fed policymakers expect one more rate hike this year.
Job openings slid in May, the Bureau of Labor Statistics said on Tuesday.
There were 5.5 million job openings in May, down from 5.79 million job openings in April, according to the Job Openings and Labor Turnover Summary (JOLTS) report.
June's massive jobs beat after May's disappointing data shows the United States is on track to achieving full employment, said Jared Bernstein, a former economic advisor to Vice President Joseph Biden.
The U.S. added 287,000 nonfarm payroll positions in June, blowing away estimates for 175,000 and easing fears after May's dismal report showed gains of just 38,000.
That brought the average three-month job gains to 147,000 per month.
The labor force participation rate — which shows the percentage of Americans at work or actively looking for employment — increased to 62.7 percent. Average hourly earnings also increased one-tenth of a percent.
"It's more of a Goldilocks story. You've got wage growth percolating, you've got a trend of about 150K — we'd like to see more — but that does keep you on the path to full employment," Bernstein, now a senior fellow at the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, told CNBC's "Squawk Box."
"It's impressive that we're adding jobs even as the labor force participation rate is ticking up. That means people are coming in and getting work," he said.
May's job gains were revised down to 11,000, but Bernstein said he discounts the swings.
Anastasia Amoroso, global market strategist at JPMorganFunds, said it was important to note that the overall pace of job creation has been slowing down and will likely continue to do so.
"We're well past the peak, which we saw in February of 2015.The realities that 4.7, or in this case 4.9 percent unemployment, you're starting to run into labor constraints, which is why wages are rising," she told "Squawk Box."
U.S. employers were still in a hiring mood last month, but job hunters in some industries did a lot better than others.
The government's monthly status report Friday on the employment market showed a surge in hiring last month, after payroll growth all but halted in May.
Nonfarm payrolls expanded by 287,000 jobs in June, the biggest monthly gain since last October, the Labor Department said. The payroll count for May was cut to a gain of just 11,000, rather than the previously reported 38,000.
Economists are still scratching their heads trying to figure out what some see as a statistical glitch in the government's main job market survey.
"How should one act on these numbers? Cautiously, because they are imprecise," IHS Global Insights economists wrote in a note to clients Friday.
They noted that the margin of error for the widely watched employment report is plus or minus 115,000. That means there's a 90 percent chance that payrolls rose by between 172,000 and 402,000 last month, they said.
Though imprecise, the report offers insights into which sectors of the economy are adding the most jobs.
Health-care and social assistance providers added 58,000 net new jobs in June, and the leisure and hospitality sector gained 59,000 jobs. Manufacturing employment increased 14,000 last month after shedding 16,000 jobs in May, according to the government data. The retail sector added 29,900 jobs.
Construction payrolls were unchanged after two months of declines. The return of 35,100 Verizon workers, who were excluded from May's payroll count while on a monthlong strike, boosted information sector employment last month.
With a relatively large margin of error, many economists prefer to look at three-month averages to smooth out monthly variations.
On a three-month basis, the education, health and professional service sectors have been the biggest job creators. Construction, mining and logging, and goods producers have been shedding jobs.
Mother Nature may have played a role in Federal Reserve officials' decision last month against raising interest rates.
While Friday's jobs report soundly topped expectations, with the U.S. economy tacking on 287,000 more jobs, May's paltry gains of 38,000 were revised substantially downward, to just 11,000 jobs gained.
The Fed, when it opted last month to not raise rates, said it was looking for more consistency in key data points — like jobs — before following up on the December 2015 rate increase with the first hike for this year. But a cool start to 2016 slowed hiring in key industries, such as home building and leisure, and May's jobs report reflected it.
Stocks may have erased their post-Brexit losses, but one market watcher says there's more for investors to be worried about.
"The world just has too much debt, it's got aging demographics and it's got a lot of technology that aims to replace workers," warned Ed Yardeni on CNBC's "Futures Now" on Thursday. "Put it all together and you don't have much inflation and you don't have much growth."
From here, Yardeni envisions a global market where individuals may struggle to find safe havens for their money.
"Plenty of people are working and are hard-pressed to find a place to invest," said Yardeni. "They're all getting stretch marks from stretching for yield."
Indeed, the hunt for global yield remains fairly dire. Japan's entire yield curve is negative with the exception of the 30-year, which stands at about 0.045 percent. In Germany, the 10-year bund hit a new record low of -0.204 percent on Wednesday.
Amid the negativity, Yardeni is concerned that the Fed will continually be impacted by the weakness of global markets.
"In the past, the Fed rarely paid much attention to what was going on around the world," explained Yardeni. "They can't do that anymore."
Yardeni said that, prior to Brexit, Yellen's approach has been dovishly flawed and he expressed frustration over the notion that she can now reference the U.K. referendum when delaying a change in Fed policy. Currently, Fed futures indicate that the odds of a December rate hike are just above 16 percent.
It's not just the least-paid workers who will be seeing higher incomes after the latest round of minimum wage hikes.
More than a dozen cities and states raised wages this year, and those higher pay floors should also cause a ripple of extra earnings for people making as much as 20 percent more than the minimum, according to economists. For states like New York and California, which will increase wages to $15 an hour over the next few years, those benefits will extend to people making $18 an hour, according to some estimates.
Indeed, in the June jobs report released Friday, wage growth hit 2.6 percent for the past year, the highest level since the Great Recession. What's more, the data showed that 287,000 jobs were added in June, far exceeding analysts' expectations. Even if future job growth should slow, some believe that is still good for wages.
Wage increases above the minimum wage are believed to be a response to what economists call "wage compression," which occurs when more senior employees are no longer better compensated than less senior employees.
Say you worked at a fast food restaurant in Washington, D.C., at the old local minimum of $10.50. On July 1, your hourly wage increased to $11.50. That's great news for you, but the shift manager getting paid $12 an hour may not be overjoyed about your sudden good fortune.
In the old economic models, the workers don't care what the employees next to them are making, said John Schmitt, research director at the Washington Center for Equitable Growth. But in reality, we compare our pay to the pay of the people around us.
"We know, however, from extensive experience and reflection on our own lives that if somebody who just finished high school and has no experience is making the same amount as someone with more experience, you have a real-world problem recruiting and retaining people and motivating them to work," he said.
June's strong jobs report dashes some recession fears, but it is not a strong enough catalyst to get the Fed moving yet on hiking interest rates.
A surprising 287,000 jobs were created in June, more than 100,000 above forecasts. The number was viewed as payback for a stunningly weak May report, which was revised even lower — from 38,000 to 11,000.
Stocks surged and Treasury yields moved higher. The dollar reversed earlier losses. Treasury yields in the 10-year and 30-year durations initially rose, but they later fell as buyers influenced by low global yields continued to move into the long end. Market expectations for a Fed rate hike this year increased. Fed funds futures implied a still-low 24 percent chance of a hike for December, but that was up from 12 percent Thursday, according to Jefferies.
"It's still not enough to move the needle for the Fed," said Tom Simons, money market economist at Jefferies. "They'll want to see a couple more months of these and a couple months of calm in financial markets."
The unemployment rate rose by 0.2 to 4.9 percent, but Simons pointed out the rise paralleled a slight improvement in the participation rate to 62.7 percent, indicating the workers listed themselves as unemployed. "Job openings are at their highest level in 15 years, so they'll probably get a job quickly," he said.
Nonfarm payrolls rose 287,000 in June, significantly more than expected according to the median consensus on Bloomberg, and certainly a welcome improvement from the minimal rise last month.  May, in fact, was revised down further from 38,000 to just 11,000.  Taking the Verizon strike into account, adding 35,000 to May and subtracting 35,000 from June, the last two months of payroll gains are more like 46,000 and 252,000 respectively.
Still, the improvement at the end of the second-quarter does little to reinstate a positive trajectory in hiring – remember it's not about just one or two months data, it is about the trend pace.  The three-month average rose from 115,000 to 140,000 in June, down markedly, however, from a near 300,000 pace at the end of 2015 when the Fed opted to raise interest rates for the first time in nine years.  In other words, while the Fed's preemptive policy adjustment was based on expectations of further improvement in the labor market and inflation, the data have still-failed to evolve as expected.
The unemployment rate ticked up from 4.7 percent to 4.9 percent in June as nearly half a million workers moved back into the labor force – nearly the same amount that dropped out the month prior.  Household employment rose, however, by only 67k in June prompting a rise in the unemployment rate, as well as the participation rate from 62.6 percent to 62.7 percent.
Average hourly earnings rose just 0.1 percent in June, enough, however, to boost the annual pace of earnings up to 2.6 percent, a new high for 2016.  If sustained, which is itself a big if, positive, above-trend earnings growth would offer the Federal Reserve at least one strong indication of continued improvement in the U.S. labor market.  As of late, however, it is still too soon to suggest a sustainable upward trend as wages have been increasingly volatile month-to-month.
Finally, the workweek remains unchanged at 34.4 in June, as if has for the past five months.
Here's the bottom line:  Prior to the violent reaction in the financial markets following the Brexit, several Committee members noted the downside risks to the Fed's outlook for growth in economic activity and for further improvement in labor market conditions.  This morning's June employment report, while a welcome improvement from a disappointing rise in May, has done little to help quell the Committee's well-founded concerns surrounding labor market strength or the market's concerns of a recession over the next 12-24 months.
After all, although the headline increase in May was severely disappointing and seemingly an anomaly, the pace of hiring has been slowing for some time.  Near 300,000 at the end of last year, the three-month average slowed to fewer than 200,000 in the first quarter before dropping to just above 100,000 as of late.  Thus, even the outsized nominal rise in June of 287,000, beating market expectations, is not enough to reestablish an improving trend in hiring.
Rather, a still-weakened trajectory will continue to fuel the Committee's concerns surrounding the underlying momentum of the U.S. labor market, and the domestic economy as a whole, into the second-half of the year and beyond, perpetuating the Fed's inability to raise rates anytime soon.  In other words, if rates were poised to stay low for longer, the Fed's acknowledgement of recent weakness on the domestic front coupled with global market volatility suggest rates are now likely to be much lower for much, much, much longer.
The U.S. oil industry will need to hire tens of thousands of workers in the next two and a half years as oil prices recover and drillers stand up rigs, Goldman Sachs projected in a note this week.
The question is whether workers flushed out of the industry and into a resurgent U.S. labor market will head back to the oil patch. On Friday, government data showed the United States added a whopping 287,000 jobs in June, and the nation's unemployment rate held below 5 percent.
Recruiters have long warned that layoffs could come back to haunt an industry still dealing with a shortage of mid-career workers following the 1980s oil bust. As the United States reaches full employment, oilfield services companies and drillers could face a shortage of workers and may have to pay dearly for them.
Since the start of the oil price downturn in 2014, more than 291,500 energy jobs have been lost worldwide, estimates recruitment agency Airswift.
The U.S. unemployment rate rose to 4.9 percent in June, the Labor Department said Friday. But does that tell the whole story?
Each month on jobs Friday, the Labor Department's Bureau of Labor Statistics puts out a slew of employment-related data, each of which tells its own story about the U.S. employment situation. Most economists look past the official unemployment rate — also know as the "U-3" number — to other metrics that provide more nuanced views of the state of jobs.
The U-3 rate is defined as the "total unemployed, as a percent of the civilian labor force," but doesn't include a number of employment situations. A broader figure is the U-6 rate, which many economists rely on as a more accurate portrayal of employment in the country.
The U-6 rate dropped one-tenth of a point to 9.6 percent in June.
The U.S. created 287,000 jobs in June, massively topping analyst expectations.
The national unemployment rate, meanwhile, rose slightly more than expected in June, to 4.9 percent, according to data released Friday by the Bureau of Labor Statistics.
Jobs watchers had been expecting Friday's jobs report to show a substantial rebound from May's unexpectedly weak growth, but the June number easily topped expectations.
Economists surveyed by Reuters said they were, on average, expecting nonfarm payrolls to show growth of 175,000 for June, and the unemployment rate to rise to 4.8 percent.
U.S. market futures jumped on the report.
"The economy added 287,000 jobs in June, a bounce-back from May's low number and a clear indication that the economy continues to make solid progress," White House Council of Economic Advisers Chairman Jason Furman said in a statement.
The already weak payrolls growth from May was revised even further downward, to 11,000. April's growth, meanwhile, was revised upward from 123,000 to 144,000. Last month, the initial May report showed the U.S. unemployment rate came in at 4.7 percent, a recent low, but nonfarm payrolls only grew a dismal 38,000 jobs.
Over the last three months, job gains have averaged about 147,000 per month.
The BLS also reported that the average workweek for all employees on private nonfarm payrolls was 34.4 hours — the fifth consecutive month for that result. U.S. average hourly earnings for private nonfarm payroll employees moved 2 cents higher in June to $25.61.
What's the real unemployment rate?
Employment in the private sector rose more than expected in June, led by gains in small-business jobs, according to a report Thursday from ADP and Moody's.
"Job growth revived last month from its spring slump. Job growth remains healthy except in the energy and trade-sensitive manufacturing sectors. Large multinationals are struggling a bit, and Brexit won't help, but small- and mid-sized companies continue to add strongly to payrolls," Mark Zandi, chief economist at Moody's Analytics, said in a statement.
Private sector jobs grew by 172,000, while economists polled by Reuters forecast a gain of 159,000. The May number was revised down to 168,000 from 173,000.
Small businesses, those with fewer than 50 employees, accounted for 95,000 of those jobs, up from 84,000 in May.
Medium-sized businesses, those with an employee count between 50 and 499, added 52,000 jobs, down from 60,000 in May, while large businesses accounted for an extra 25,000.
The number of Americans filing for unemployment benefits unexpectedly fell last week, offering further confirmation that the labor market remains on solid footing despite tepid job gains in May.
Initial claims for state unemployment benefits declined 16,000 to a seasonally adjusted 254,000 for the week ended July 2, the Labor Department said on Thursday. The drop left claims close to a 43-year low of 248,000 touched in mid-April.
Claims for the prior week were revised to show 2,000 more applications received than previously reported. Economists polled by Reuters had forecast initial claims rising to 270,000 in the latest week.
Claims have now been below 300,000, a threshold associated with a healthy labor market, for 70 straight weeks, the longest stretch since 1973.
The four-week moving average of claims, considered a better measure of labor market trends as it irons out week-to-week volatility, fell 2,500 to 264,750 last week.
A Labor Department analyst said there were no special factors influencing last week's claims data. However, claims for Hawaii, Kansas, Nebraska, Puerto Rico, Virginia and Wyoming were estimated because of the Independence Day holiday on Monday.
Last week's claims report has no impact on June's employment report, which is scheduled for release on Friday. Claims were low through the month, suggesting job gains probably picked up in June after increasing only 38,000 in May, the smallest gain since September 2010.
According to a Reuters survey of economists, nonfarm payrolls likely increased 175,000 last month. The unemployment rate is forecast rising to 4.8 percent in June from an 8-1/2-year low of 4.7 percent in May.
The claims report showed the number of people still receiving benefits after an initial week of aid dropped 44,000 to 2.12 million in the week ended June 25. The four-week average of the so-called continuing claims rose 3,000 to 2.15 million.
Layoffs by U.S. employers in the first half of 2016 outpaced job cuts during the same period last year, but payroll reductions are beginning to trail off, outplacement firm Challenger, Gray & Christmas reported Thursday.
In June, employers said they planned to hand out 38,536 pink slips, according to the latest Challenger report. That marked a slight uptick from job cuts announced in May, but Challenger notes the June figure is below the 12-month average, indicating a "positive employment environment."
"Just like the job creation numbers have been low in this second quarter, also the layoffs are low, so that is kind of a signal that we're nearing full employment," John A. Challenger, CEO of Challenger, Gray & Christmas told CNBC's "Squawk Box" on Thursday.
"Companies are just holding onto their people. They're not laying off even their C players, but there's just not that many people to hire either," he said.
Employers announced 313,754 layoffs in the first six months of 2016, up 9 percent from the same period last year.
Still, payroll reductions tapered between the first and second quarters. Second-quarter job cuts totaled 132,834, down 27 percent from the 180,920 layoffs announced in the first quarter.
In the hard-hit energy sector, employers cut 42 percent fewer jobs in the second quarter. Retail, another leading job-cutter, saw a 48 percent drop in pink slips.
As the Republican presidential convention approaches, New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie is on a short list of potential running mates for Donald Trump.
With his combative campaign style and large-state electoral votes, Christie could provide the Trump ticket with a strong political boost, touting his record on a number of issues attractive to GOP voters.
His economic record, though, has a lot less to offer.
On Wednesday, Democratic rival and former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, made a campaign stop in Christie's back yard to blast Trump for getting rich by taking advantage of American workers.
Standing outside one of Trump's bankrupt Atlantic City, New Jersey, casinos, Clinton said that his campaign is trying to appeal to voters who "are the same people he has been exploiting for years — working people, small-business people trying to support their families."
In a statement released shortly after Clinton's remarks, Trump defended bankruptcy as an "effective and commonly used practice in business."
"I created thousands of jobs and made a lot of money in Atlantic City, which was what, as a businessman, I am supposed to do for my company and my family," Trump said in the statement.
A Christie representative could not be reached for comment. Christie has said that, under his administration, New Jersey's economic and fiscal have dramatically improved since he took office. "New Jersey is better off than it was last year at this time, and it is certainly far better off than it was just five years ago," he said in his State of the State speech this year.
Since he was inaugurated the Garden State's 55th governor in January 2010, New Jersey's overall economic growth has lagged the national pace of recovery. As of the first quarter of this year, the U.S. economy is 22.4 percent bigger than when Christie took office; his state's economy has grown by 18.2 percent.
A Federal Reserve interest rate hike could happen in September, but only if the labor market sees a sharp bounce back this summer, said Rob Martin, senior U.S. economist at Barclays, on Thursday.
"If we see a rebound in employment, if we get 150,000 [new jobs] per month, I think that they're ready to go, and I think they go in September," Martin told CNBC's "Squawk Box."
The June jobs report is due Friday, with economists polled by Reuters expecting a gain of 175,000. The May jobs report handily disappointed market makers and economists, with just 38,000 jobs created, leading the market to further price out Fed tightening.
Getting fired for getting old — or never being considered for an opening in the first place — is a problem that's only going to get worse.
America's workforce is getting older, and fast. By 2022, about 35 percent of the U.S. labor force will be over 50, according to AARP. That's up from 25 percent in 2002.
At the same time, a stubbornly middling economic recovery continues to set old workers against younger ones, and places a target on the back of every experienced, higher-salaried employee.
"Every time there's a recession, there's a pattern of age discrimination," said Patricia Barnes, author of the book "Overcoming Age Discrimination in Employment."
"It is totally predictable, but Congress has done nothing," she said.
The U.S. trade deficit widened more than expected in May as rising oil prices helped to push up the import bill and exports remained constrained by the lingering effects of a strong dollar.
The Commerce Department said on Wednesday the trade gap increased 10.1 percent to $41.1 billion. April's trade deficit was unrevised at $37.4 billion.
Economists polled by Reuters had forecast the trade deficit rising to $40.0 billion in May. When adjusted for inflation, the deficit increased to $61.1 billion from $57.5 billion in April.
Despite the increase, the inflation-adjusted trade deficit in April and May remained below the average for the first quarter, suggesting that trade was on track to make a modest contribution to gross domestic product in the April-June period.
The Atlanta Federal Reserve is currently forecasting second-quarter GDP rising at a 2.6 percent annualized rate. The economy grew at a 1.1 percent pace in the first quarter.
A tug-of-war between two states seeking to attract businesses has cost hundreds of millions of taxpayer dollars, with practically no net job gains on either side to show for it. And there's no signs of letting up, even as one of the states faces a wrenching budget crisis and businesses in both states say they don't really need the money.
For years critics of the war between all 50 states to attract companies — which CNBC highlights each year in our America's Top States for Business rankings — have pointed to the stalemate between the neighboring states of Kansas and Missouri as a prime example of the absurdity of it all.
U.S. consumer spending rose for a second straight month in May on increased demand for automobiles and other goods, but there are fears Britain's vote to leave the European Union could hurt confidence and prompt households to cut back on consumption.
The Commerce Department said on Wednesday consumer spending, which accounts for more than two-thirds of U.S. economic activity, increased 0.4 percent last month, pointing to an acceleration in economic growth in the second quarter.
Consumer spending in April was revised up to show it advancing 1.1 percent instead of the previously reported 1.0 percent jump. Last month's increase in consumer spending was in line with economists' expectations.
Last Thursday's so-called "Brexit" referendum wiped off an estimated $3.01 trillion from global stock markets over two days. Economists say if the financial turbulence persists, that could hurt consumer confidence and cause companies to either delay or scale back capital projects, exerting further downward pressure on business investment.
So far, economists are forecasting that Brexit will subtract an average of two-tenths of a percentage point from U.S. growth over the next six quarters.
In the face of the destabilizing Brexit vote and increasingly dovish views from the Fed, the Mortgage Bankers Association still thinks a rate hike is on the way.
(Update: An earlier version stated the MBA believed there would be two hikes this year. After the story published, the association said it was changing its forecast to one increase this year.)
The view is contrary perceived wisdom, with traders expecting no chance of a hike this year while in fact pricing in a small probability of a rate cut. Fed officials, at their June meeting, indicated that two hikes were still on the table for 2016, but that was before British voters opted to leave the European Union, a move that jolted financial markets and considerably diminished rate hike expectations.
The association subsequently said it was changing its forecast from two hikes to one. An official said an analysis issued Tuesday erred in referencing the Brexit vote in the past tense.
"MBA now predicts that the Fed will hike only once this year, likely in December. If the financial market disruption from Brexit persists, the likelihood of even a December hike would be reduced," Mike Fratantoni, chief economist at the MBA, said in an emailed statement.
Kan said he still projects U.S. gross domestic product to gain 2 percent for the rest of the year, and with other economic gains will give the Fed clearance to resume the rate normalization process.
Traders, however, disagree.
The CME's FedWatch tool, which tracks fed funds futures contracts and assigns probabilities for hikes at each of the Federal Open Market Committee meetings, shows a 98.8 percent chance that the Fed in July will hold the line on its current target range of 0.25 to 0.5 percent for the overnight rate. There is a 1.2 percent chance of a cut, with no chance assigned to a hike.
In fact, the probability of a rate increase doesn't come into play until November, and even then there's just a 1.9 percent chance. Traders assign a 19.3 percent chance of a hike in December.
The final push of the spring housing season turned out weaker than expected.  Signed contracts to buy existing homes fell 3.7 percent in May compared to April, according to the National Association of Realtors.
April's reading was revised down. These so-called pending home sales were 0.2 percent lower than May of 2015, the first annual drop since August of 2014.
Donald Trump has certainly struck a nerve but the presumptive Republican presidential nominee does not have the right economic prescription for the United States, said Glenn Hutchins, a former advisor to Bill Clinton.
"[Trump's] election will be the equivalent to Brexit in the United States," Hutchins, a wealthy investor and business leader, told CNBC's "Squawk Box" on Wednesday, saying the U.S. needs to avoid at all costs the kind of self-inflicted "chaos and uncertainty" created in the wake of the United Kingdom's vote last week to leave the European Union.
The nationalistic views that led Britons to vote exit are the same type of sentiments that have played out so far in the tumultuous U.S. election cycle, said Hutchins, a supporter of Democrat Hillary Clinton for president.
"This has been the most information-rich election ... since Ronald Reagan's election in 1980," he said, contending the promise of globalization creating prosperity has been soundly rejected in the 2016 presidential nominating contests.
Trump has certainly capitalized on this America-first groundswell. At a rally Tuesday in a former steel town south of Pittsburgh, the billionaire businessman played up familiar themes, blasting free trade agreements and China as U.S. manufacturing job killers.
But on the Democratic side, Clinton hasn't embraced free trade either. A supporter of the Trans-Pacific Partnership in its early stages as secretary of state, Clinton last fall came out against it just days after the U.S. and 11 nations reached a final agreement.
Corporate America needs to do a better job explaining that trade and cooperation among nations are pillars of success in the global economy, said Hutchins, co-founder of technology investment powerhouse Silver Lake Partners and chairman of North Island, the holding company for his personal investments. He also serves on the boards of the New York Federal Reserve, the Economic Club of New York, the Center for American Progress, the Brookings Institution, AT&T and Nasdaq.
"The business community needs to move beyond ideology, needs to move beyond party, needs to move beyond narrowly defined corporate self-interests and understand that we've got to create a foundation of social stability," Hutchins argued. "The only way we're going to get to future trade agreements and tax reform is … to send a message that we care, we hear you and we're creating conditions for rising [wealth] equality."
Hutchins commended Hank Paulson for reaching across the political aisle and endorsing Clinton for president over Trump.
Paulson, who was Treasury secretary during George W. Bush's presidency, wrote in a 
Washington Postop-ed Friday he's going to vote for Clinton, calling Trump's rise a "populist hijacking" of one of the great political parties of the United States.
U.S. economic growth slowed in the first quarter but not as sharply as previously estimated, with gains in exports and investment in software partially offsetting weak consumer spending.
Gross domestic product increased at a 1.1 percent annual rate, rather than the 0.8 percent pace reported last month, the Commerce Department said on Tuesday in its third GDP estimate.
First-quarter GDP growth has now be revised higher by six-tenths of a point since the advance estimate was published in April. The economy grew at a rate of 1.4 percent in the fourth quarter. Economists polled by Reuters had expected first-quarter GDP growth would be revised up to a 1.0 percent rate.
There are signs the economy has regained momentum in the second quarter, with retail sales and home sales rising in both April and May, even though business spending continues to struggle and job growth has slowed.
Home prices rose in April as a growing number of cities surpassed records set before the Great Recession, according to a closely followed index.
The S&P/Case-Shiller 20-City Composite Index rose 5.4 percent year over year in April.
"The home price increases reflect the low unemployment rate, low mortgage interest rates, and consumers' generally positive outlook," David M. Blitzer, managing director and chairman of the Index Committee at S&P Dow Jones Indices, said in a statement.
Blitzer noted that seven cities are now setting new highs for home prices.
Portland, Oregon, led the gains in April with a 12.3-percent increase. Seattle followed with a 10.7-percent rise, trailed by Denver, which saw home prices rise 9.5 percent in April.
The S&P/Case-Shiller U.S. National Home Price Index, which measures all nine U.S. census divisions, was up 5 percent in April from the previous year.
The U.S. advance goods trade deficit totaled a wider-than-expected $60.59 billion in May.
The trade gap had been expected to come in at around $57.5 billion, nearly in line with the $57.53 billion reported a month earlier.
A key measure of consumers' attitudes was lower than expected this month, showing that consumers had a slightly dimmer view of the economy even prior to Friday's stock market rout.
The Index of Consumer Sentiment hit 93.5 in June, the University of Michigan said Friday. Economists expected the index of consumer sentiment to hit 94 in June's final reading, down from 94.7 in May's final reading, according to a Thomson Reuters consensus estimate.
"While no recession is anticipated, consumers increasingly expect a slower pace of economic growth in the year ahead," Richard Curtin, the chief economist of the survey, said in a statement.
The normal interviewing schedule for the survey would have run from May 26 to June 22. It came on a day when U.S. stock markets opened sharply lower as the global economy digested Britain's departure from the European Union.
The monthly survey of 500 consumers measures attitudes toward topics like personal finances, inflation, unemployment, government policies and interest rates.
It showed a departure between consumers' assessment of the present and their view of the future.
The index of current economic conditions rose to 110.8 this month, compared to 109.9 in May. It was the highest since 2007, led by strength in consumer spending and personal finances.
Meanwhile, the index of consumer expectations fell to 82.4 in June, compared to 84.9 in May, reflecting a perceived volatile path for gross domestic product.
"The stability in the overall sentiment index reflects a gradual improvement in assessments of current conditions being offset by a downward drift in the economic prospects," Curtin said.
Orders for long-lasting factory goods fell more sharply than expected in May, amid a huge drop in defense aircraft orders.
Durable goods orders tumbled 2.2 percent in the month, steeper than the 0.5 percent drop expected and following a revised 3.3 percent in April.
Defense aircraft orders plunged 34 percent, while orders that excluded transportation were down 0.3 percent. Excluding defense, orders fell 0.9 percent.
The International Monetary Fund is downgrading its forecast for the U.S. economy this year and says America should raise the minimum wage to help the poor and offer paid maternity leave to encourage more women to work.
In its annual checkup of the U.S. economy, the IMF predicts 2.2 percent growth this year, down from 2.4 per cent in 2015, and lower than the 2.4 per cent growth it forecast in April for this year.
Still, IMF managing director Christine Lagarde, noting low unemployment and strong hiring over the past year, says "the U.S. economy is in good shape." The American economy got off to a slow start this year. A strong dollar hurt exporters by making their goods costlier overseas. Energy companies have also slashed spending due to low oil prices.
Federal Reserve  Governor Jay Powell told CNBC on Wednesday the referendum on whether the U.K. should leave the European Union may make for dicey trading in financial markets.
"The markets have been responsive to changes in the polls, clearly, so the vote could certainly bring on significant volatility," Powell told "Squawk Box" a day before the referendum.
If the leave camp wins, "financial conditions could tighten. It could have an economic effect on the U.K. and the EU," he continued. "We would feel that, as well. We could very well feel that if there were a significant risk-off move."
But Powell added that the U.S. central bank is "ready for whatever happens" Thursday. "Global developments, global weakness ... are really important for the setting of U.S. monetary policy."
The U.S. economy is outperforming other economies around the world, putting Fed policymakers in the position to possibly hike interest rates, he said. But he said the Fed should "wait and see how much momentum there is the economy."
The economy weakened in the fourth quarter of 2015 and the first quarter of this year. "It's a little bit looking like it's coming back in Q2," Powell said.
At the same time, he said, the strengthening labor market over the past three years "has let us look through the volatility and GDP," but he pointed to weak jobs reports in April and May as a concern.
Powell spoke ahead of Fed Chair Janet Yellen's morning appearance before the House Financial Services Committee. It's the second day of her semiannual economic testimony to Congress.
On Tuesday, Yellen expressed concerns about a possible Brexit. She was generally optimistic about the U.S. economy and played down the risk of a recession. Yellen ruled out implementing negative interest rates in the U.S., should more Fed stimulus be needed.
Powell told CNBC on Wednesday that Fed policymakers could use a hand from Congress and the White House. "Monetary policy has been really in the ring alone, and could use some help, certainly from fiscal and regulator policy."
The Fed raised rates in December for the first time in more than nine years. At the time, central bankers projected four more rate hikes in 2016. But the new year market turmoil scaled back those expectations.
As the stock market bottomed on Feb. 11 and marched higher, the minutes from the Fed's April meeting put a June or maybe a July hike on the table. But recent concerns about the Brexit vote has pushed expectations of any future rate increases much further out.
The stock market had been pressured on Brexit concerns, though as the stay camp gained ground in recent days the Dow Jones industrial average, S&P 500, and Nasdaq logged three advances in the past four sessions.
Another drop in mortgage interest rates, to their lowest level in three years, sent borrowers back to the bank to refinance home loans.
Total mortgage application volume increased 2.9 percent last week on a seasonally adjusted basis from the previous week. Applications are now nearly 35 percent higher than one year ago, when rates were considerably higher, according to the Mortgage Bankers Association.
Fed Chair Janet Yellen went in front of the Senate Banking Committee Tuesday. One of the highlights so far has been a tweet from Bill Gross at Janus Capital, who said the central bank chief is speaking from "a 50-year-old textbook." She also has expressed concerns over Brexit and noted that the benefits of the recovery have been uneven.
In response to a question about presumptive Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump's proposal that he could renegotiate U.S. debt with foreign creditors, Yellen said the damage from that could be "very substantial."
Follow along with CNBC's live coverage below:
A decision by the United Kingdom to exit the European Union would likely trigger a big sell-off in the pound, a sharp decline in household income and a recession, according to billionaire investor George Soros.
Just ahead of the vote by Britons on Thursday on whether to exit the EU or remain, Soros issued an urgent warning about potential consequences.
"Too many believe that a vote to leave the EU will have no effect on their personal financial position," Soros wrote in an op-ed Tuesday in The Guardian newspaper. "This is wishful thinking."
Citing estimates from multiple authorities including the Bank of England and the International Monetary Fund, Soros said the average income loss per household due to a falling British currency would be £3,000 to £5,000 annually ($4,400 to $7,335).
Soros understands fluctuations in the British currency — he made a good chunk of his fortune betting against the pound in 1992. Now, he is predicting that a Brexit would cause a 15 to 20 percent decline in the currency.
While the 1992 tumble ended up aiding the country in the long run, as it brought down interest rates and helped ignite a recovery, Soros said a devaluation would not be healthy this time.
He cited three reasons: The Bank of England could not cut rates from already low levels; the U.K. has a large current account deficit and likely would not see another inflow of cash; and the loss of currency value wouldn't help exports, because of uncertainty in trading conditions that the Brexit would trigger.
"I want people to know what the consequences of leaving the EU would be before they cast their votes, rather than after," Soros wrote. "A vote to leave could see the week end with a Black Friday, and serious consequences for ordinary people."
COLUMBUS, Ohio — Hillary Clinton on Tuesday will make the case that Donald Trump is "unfit" to manage the U.S. economy in a speech modeled closely after her foreign policy takedown of the presumptive Republican nominee earlier this month in San Diego, according to aides.
"Everything that applies to Trump about national security is equally true when it comes to the economy," Clinton campaign senior adviser Jake Sullivan said.
In California, Clinton labeled Trump's foreign policy proposals "dangerously incoherent" and said he was "temperamentally unfit to be commander-in chief."
More from NBC News:The United States of TrumpTrump's Road to Recovery Appears Steep After Shake-UpClinton Holds Big Fund-Raising Edge Over Trump
On Tuesday, aides said, the former secretary of state will detail why she believes Trump's economic ideas are also disqualifying. The thesis of her speech, according to Sullivan, will be: "If we were to put Donald Trump behind the wheel of the American economy, he would very likely drive us off a cliff and working families would bear the brunt of the impact in terms of lost jobs, lost savings, and lost livelihoods."
AUTHOR'S NOTE: This post has been updated to reflect that the U.K. has voted to leave the European Union.
Nearly every market move over the last two weeks has been attributed to the upcoming British referendum on whether the United Kingdom should remain with or leave the European Union.
A poll showed Brits might want to leave? Down go stocks. Then it looked like the U.K. would stay in the political and economic bloc? Here's 200 points to the upside for the Dow Jones industrial average.
Now that the U.K. has officially voted in favor of leaving, markets are going wild.
And it's not just trading desks who cared about Thursday's referendum. Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen said earlier this month that a British exit from the EU "could have consequences in turn for the U.S. economic outlook."
While investors have been focused on the perennial failed hope for a second half economic recovery, they have been missing the most salient point: the U.S. most likely entered into a recession at the end of last quarter.
That's right, when adjusting nominal GDP growth for core consumer price inflation for the average of the past two quarters, the recession is already here. But before we look deeper into this, let's first look at the following five charts that illustrate the economy has been steadily deteriorating for the past few years and that the pace of decline has recently picked up steam.
There is no better indicator of global growth than copper. Affectionately referred to as "Dr. Copper," this base metal has traditionally been a great barometer of economic health. Unfortunately, as you can see from the chart below, copper has been in a bear market for the past five years and shows no sign of a recovery from its 55-percent plunge.
The U.S. Federal Reserve's dwindling confidence in its own outlook and resulting confusion among investors are creating a policy problem that may require chief Janet Yellen to lay out her own views more forcefully.
The Fed chair's next communications test comes on Tuesday and Wednesday during her semi-annual testimony to U.S. lawmakers, less than a week after the central bank kept interest rates unchanged near record lows and lowered its projections for hikes in 2017 and 2018.
A self-described consensus builder, Yellen sees her job as reflecting the whole committee's views rather than setting an agenda for others to follow.
St. Louis Fed  President Jim Bullard, in a significant shift in his outlook for the economy, now says low growth and a very low fed funds rate of just 63 basis points will likely remain in place through 2018.
Bullard, reversing earlier forecasts that looked for growth to pick up and rates to rise, now says 2 percent growth is the most likely forecast and that rates will remain low. Bullard also sees unemployment at 4.7 percent and trimmed-mean PCE inflation of 2 percent during this window.
As a result, he says the fed funds rates should remain at 63 basis points during the remainder of his forecast. The current target rate is 25 to 50 basis points.
"An older narrative that the bank has been using since the financial crisis ended has now likely outlived its usefulness, and so it is being replaced by a new narrative. The hallmark of the new narrative is to think of medium- and longer-term macroeconomic outcomes in terms of regimes," said Bullard, one of the Fed's most aggressive rate hawks.
The Fed's so-called dot plot showed that one official saw just one interest rate increase through 2018, but it was unclear until now that it was Bullard.
In a conference call with reporters following the release of the position paper, Bullard said the mismatch between Fed and investor expectations for the fed funds rate is eroding the central bank's credibility and causing distortions in the market.
The Fed's forecast  for the pace of rate increases has consistently been above market expectations. Bullard said the Fed should lift rates once by the end of the year, but added that he prefers to wait until policymakers can hike on good news.
The Fed raised rates from near zero in December, but has kept Wall Street waiting for a second move. When it raised the rate in December, it indicated that it expected four rate hikes this year. It later revised that projection to two increases for 2016.
At present, the long-run outcome for the U.S. economy remains uncertain, Bullard said.
U.S. housing starts slipped in May as the construction of multi-family housing units dropped, but further gains in building permits suggested a rebound that would continue to support economic growth in the second quarter.
Groundbreaking fell 0.3 percent to a seasonally adjusted annual pace of 1.16 million units, the Commerce Department said on Friday. Starts in April were little changed at a 1.17 million-unit pace.
Economists polled by Reuters had forecast housing starts falling to a 1.15 million-unit pace last month.
Housing remains a pillar of strength for the economy. Residential construction added almost a six-tenths of a percentage point to first-quarter gross domestic product, the biggest contribution in more than three years.
Groundbreaking on single-family homes, the largest segment of the market, rose 0.3 percent to a 764,000-unit pace last month. Single-family starts in the South, where most home building takes place, rose 2.6 percent to their highest level since December 2007.
Amid the data deluge Thursday morning, one number may have stood out more than others, at least to the Fed.
While Wall Street watched weekly jobless claims and the latest inflation reading, a number tucked inside the Philadelphia Fed's manufacturing survey spelled more trouble for the economy.
While the overall reading of 4.7 pointed to growth in the sector after two months of contraction, the employment component was awful. That number came in at -10.9 for June, a big drop from the already weak -3.3 for May, a month when the U.S. economy generated just 38,000 new nonfarm jobs.
The regional indexes are calculated on a diffusion basis, meaning they gauge the level of expansion by companies against contractions. A negative reading, then, indicates contraction, or in this case more companies decreasing rather than increasing employment.
Albeit a volatile number, the employment gauge is particularly important in light of the Federal Open Market Committee's decision this week not only to hold off on raising interest rates but also to cut back sharply its projection for future hikes. Both the post-meeting statement from the committee and Chair Janet Yellen's remarks in a post conference cited labor weakness weighed heavily on the moves.
Many Fed watchers had been focusing on the Consumer Price Index reading, which provides a monthly gauge on where employment is heading. That report showed a "core" (excluding food and energy prices) gain of 0.2 percent, in line with Wall Street expectations. The headline number also was 0.2 percent, which actually was a notch below estimates of 0.3 percent and below the 0.4 percent gain in April.
Even with that modest increase, however, it was enough to erase any wage gains.
Concurrent with the CPI report, the Labor Department said the 0.2 percent gain offset a 0.2 percent gain in wages for the month. On a year-over-year basis, that put the real average hour wages increase at just 1.4 percent, a number that likely will give little comfort to Fed officials looking for wage gains as a sign that the central bank can start normalizing interest rates.
Following the morning reports, traders assigned a 9.5 percent chance for a July rate hike and only a 48.2 percent probability that the Fed hikes even once before the end of the year. The next rate hike is not fully priced in until January 2018.
Federal Reserve  policymakers "don't have a vision" for where the U.S. economy is going, Allianz Chief Economic Adviser Mohamed El-Erian said Thursday, a day after central bankers decided not to increase interest rates.
"The collateral damage and unintended consequences of this prolonged experiment with very low interest rates [and] very big balance sheets are starting to have a meaningful [negative] effect on the economy," El-Erian told CNBC's "Squawk Box."
Without a clear idea for the future of growth, the Fed has become "overly data-dependent," El-Erian said, arguing that such an approach has been sending "conflicting signals over time."
The former co-CEO of Pimco said investors are left wondering whether the Fed is "being totally inconsistent or the Fed [is] being a slave of the markets."
The Fed raised rates in December for the first time in more than nine years. At the time, central bankers projected four more rate hikes in 2016. But the new year market turmoil scaled back those expectations.
As the stock market bottomed on Feb. 11 and marched higher, the minutes from the Fed's April meeting put a June or maybe a July hike on the table. But recent concerns about what next week's vote in the U.K. on whether to exit or stay in the European Union trading block have hurt stocks and pushed expectations of any future rate increases much further out.
The futures market now sees less than a 50 percent chance of even one hike by year-end.
Fed Chair Janet Yellen, in her post-meeting news conference Wednesday, even mentioned Brexit, and questioned how a "leave" vote could hurt the U.S. economy, as a reason for not raising interest rates.
Yellen also broke out the phrase "new normal" to explain why central bank officials expect rates and economic growth to remain low through 2018.
The Fed is late to the party on that notion, argued El-Erian. "[Pimco] first said 'new normal' in 2009."
El-Erian said it's difficult for Fed officials to resign themselves to the fact that slow growth was the result of structural, rather than cyclical factors. "They were hoping for the handoff" to a stronger economy after years of stimulus measures, he added.
The term "new normal," coined by El-Erian and Pimco about seven years ago, referred at the time to the probability of prolonged slow economic growth, high unemployment and government debt problems.
U.S. consumer prices moderated in May, but sustained increases in housing and health care costs kept underlying inflation supported, which could allow the Federal Reserve to raise interest rates this year.
The Labor Department said on Thursday its Consumer Price Index increased 0.2 percent last month after rising 0.4 percent in April. In the 12 months through May, the CPI advanced 1.0 percent after rising 1.1 percent in April.
Economists had forecast the CPI gaining 0.3 percent last month and advancing 1.1 percent from a year ago.
The so-called core CPI, which strips out food and energy costs, rose 0.2 percent after a similar gain in April. That took the year-on-year core CPI rise to 2.2 percent from 2.1 percent in April.
The Fed has a 2 percent inflation target and tracks an inflation measure which is currently at 1.6 percent. The U.S. central bank on Wednesday kept interest rates unchanged and said it expected inflation to remain below its target through 2017.
The Federal Reserve is the only institution in Washington acting to support economic growth, but its low-rate policy could be backfiring, former Dallas Fed President Richard Fisher said Thursday.
Fisher offered his assessment one day after the Federal Open Market Committee left rates unchanged and more members of the policymaking group indicated they anticipate just one hike this year rather than two.
Congress's failure to stimulate the economy through fiscal policy has forced the Fed to keep monetary policy accommodative, he told CNBC's "Squawk Box." But low rates are taking a toll on community and regional banks that lend to middle-income groups, he said.
That pressure, combined with over-regulation, is retarding growth, he said.
"There's very little incentive, together with the pincer movement of regulatory excess, for people to go out there and lend into job-creating enterprises," he said.
"It's a joint strangle on what moves our economy forward," he said.
Low rates have also slammed insurance companies, he noted. Since insurance provides the savings that many in the second and third income quartiles rely on, Washington is undermining the returns that protect the future of Americans' savings, he said.
Fisher said he believes the Fed needs to consider regulatory conditions when setting monetary policy, something he says never happened in his 10 years of attending policy meetings.
"I'm very worried longer term that this could be undermining the ability of the basic financial fabric of our country to do what it's supposed to do, which is to finance economic growth," he said.
"The Fed's next move will be in the direction of ease," according to contrarian investor Jim Grant.
Grant, the founder and editor of Grant's Interest Rate Observer, told CNBC's "Closing Bell" that "the industrial manufacturing economy is visibly entering or flirting with recession, the yield curve is flat and flattening, [and] inventories are building."
Grant's prediction came after the Federal Open Market Committee said on Wednesday that it would not raise short-term interest rates.
While the so-called dot plot of future rate projections indicated there was still is a greater likelihood of two hikes before the end of 2016, doubts have increased that that would be the case.
The number of Americans filing for unemployment benefits rose more than expected last week, but the underlying trend remained consistent with healthy labor market conditions.
Initial claims for state unemployment benefits increased 13,000 to a seasonally adjusted 277,000 for the week ended June 11, the Labor Department said on Thursday. Claims for the prior week were unrevised.
Economists polled by Reuters had forecast initial claims rising to 270,000 in the latest week. Claims have now been below 300,000, a threshold associated with a strong job market, for 67 straight weeks, the longest streak since 1973.
The four-week moving average of claims, considered a better measure of labor market trends as it irons out week-to-week volatility, slipped 250 to 269,250 last week.
A Labor Department analyst said there were no special factors influencing last week's claims data and no states had been estimated.
The claims report comes a day after the Federal Reserve downgraded its assessment of the labor market, saying "the pace of improvement in the labor market has slowed while growth in economic activity appears to have picked up."
The U.S. central bank, which kept interest rates unchanged, also noted that while the unemployment rate had declined, "job gains have diminished."
But with job openings near record highs, both economists and Fed officials expect job growth to pick up after the economy added only 38,000 jobs in May, the smallest increase since September 2010. The Fed lifted its benchmark overnight interest rate in December for the first time in nearly a decade.
Thursday's claims report showed the number of people still receiving benefits after an initial week of aid rose 45,000 to 2.16 million in the week ended June 4. The four-week average of the so-called continuing claims gained 1,000 to 2.15 million.
This is a breaking news story. Please check back for further updates.
The Federal Reserve may not be ready to raise interest rates until the Christmas holidays roll around, Federated Chief Equity Strategist Phil Orlando said Thursday.
Orlando made his comments one day after the Federal Open Market Committee left rates unchanged and more members of the policymaking group indicated they anticipate just one hike this year rather than two.
Orlando said the decision merely reflected the reality of the marketplace. The Fed is staring down slower labor force improvement, weaker inflation, "terrible" first-quarter corporate earnings and a British vote on its European Union membership that now amounts to a coin flip, he said.
"We're not overly pessimistic. We're realistic that the data right now doesn't support an aggressive Fed," Orlando told CNBC's "Squawk Box."
"We feel really good about December, but July or September is going to be a tougher call. The data's got to support that, and right now, that's a crapshoot," he said.
The odds of a July rate hike fellow to below 10 percent, and the chances of an increase in September dropped to 22 percent immediately following the Fed's announcement on Wednesday, according to Fed Fund futures data provided by RBS.
The uncertainty expressed by the Fed on Wednesday is bad for the market, said Alison Deans, consultant at AA Deans Advisors and a CNBC contributor.
"We're relying way too much on the Fed to solve all of our problems, and the Fed can't solve our problems," she told "Squawk Box."
What's missing is good fiscal policy from Washington, she said. Orlando agrees with that assessment.
He said in this environment, it's crucial to play defense. Federated's mix of stocks to bonds is at its lowest level since the Great Recession, he said.
"We've got more cash, more bonds. We like gold. We've got defensive allocations in equities. The stock market's going lower. You've got to play defense here," he said.
U.S. producer prices rose for a second straight month in May as the cost of energy products and services increased, but the lingering effects of a strong dollar and lower energy prices will likely keep inflation tame for a while.
The Labor Department said on Wednesday its producer price index for final demand increased 0.4 percent last month after rising 0.2 percent in April. In the 12 months through May, the PPI slipped 0.1 percent after being unchanged in April.
Economists polled by Reuters had forecast the PPI gaining 0.3 percent last month and slipping 0.1 percent from a year ago.
A surge in the dollar and the plunge in oil prices between June 2014 and December 2015 have dampened price pressures, keeping inflation below the Federal Reserve's 2 percent target.
Although the dollar has dropped 1.5 percent against the currencies of the United States' main trading partners this year and oil prices are near $50 per barrel, underlying inflation remains benign.
U.S. industrial production fell more than expected in May on a decline in utilities output and auto manufacturing, the Federal Reserve said on Wednesday, a sign that the economy may be losing some steam in the second quarter.
Industrial output declined 0.4 percent last month after a downwardly revised 0.6 percent increase in April.
Economists polled by Reuters had forecast industrial production slipping 0.2 percent last month.
The industrial sector measured by the U.S. central bank comprises manufacturing, mining, and electric and gas utilities.
It has shown tentative signs of green shoots after a downturn over the past 18 months that was due to weak global demand, a strong dollar and fall in oil prices.
Economic concerns in the U.S. and overseas pushed mortgage rates to lows not seen since the start of 2015, but that did nothing to spur homebuyers.
Mortgage application volume decreased 2.4 percent last week from the previous week on a seasonally adjusted basis, according to the Mortgage Bankers Association.
Mortgage applications to purchase a home fell 5 percent from one week earlier but were 16 percent higher than the same week a year ago. Purchase applications are likely weaker due more to the lack of homes for sale than to any interest rate moves.
U.S. retail sales rose more than expected in May as Americans bought automobiles and a range of other goods, suggesting economic growth was gaining steam despite a sharp slowdown in job creation.
The Commerce Department said on Tuesday retail sales increased 0.5 percent last month after surging by an unrevised 1.3 percent in April. It was the second straight month of gains and lifted sales 2.5 percent from a year ago.
Excluding automobiles, gasoline, building materials and food services, retail sales rose a solid 0.4 percent last month after an upwardly revised 1.0 percent increase in April.
These so-called core retail sales correspond most closely with the consumer spending component of gross domestic product. They were previously reported to have risen 0.9 percent in April. Economists polled by Reuters had forecast both overall retail and core sales gaining 0.3 percent last month.
The fairly strong May retail sales report could see economists raising their second-quarter GDP growth estimates, which are currently around a 2.5 percent annualized rate. The economy grew at a 0.8 percent rate in the first quarter.
U.S. import prices recorded their biggest increase in more than four years in May on rising costs of petroleum and other products, pointing to firming inflation as the drag from a strong dollar and lower oil prices fades.
The Labor Department said on Tuesday import prices increased 1.4 percent last month, the largest rise since March 2012, after an upwardly revised 0.7 percent gain in April.
Economists polled by Reuters had forecast import prices rising 0.7 percent in May after April's previously reported 0.3 percent gain. In the 12 months through May, import prices fell 5.0 percent, the smallest decline since November 2014.
The dollar's surge and a plunge in oil prices between June 2014 and December 2015 had dampened inflation. But with the dollar weakening 1.5 percent against the currencies of the United States' main trading partners this year and oil prices near $50 per barrel, that drag is starting to lift.
Last month, imported petroleum prices surged 17.4 percent, the largest increase since 1999, after rising 11.0 percent in April.
Import prices excluding petroleum rose 0.4 percent, the first monthly increase since March 2014, after being unchanged in April.
Imported food prices climbed 0.3 percent last month.
Prices for imported industrial supplies and materials excluding petroleum increased 1.6 percent, the biggest rise since February 2014.
Imported capital goods prices were unchanged, while the cost of imported automobiles increased 0.2 percent. That was the biggest gain since April 2014. Prices for imported consumer goods excluding autos edged up 0.1 percent.
The report also showed export prices jumped 1.1 percent in May, the biggest gain since March 2011, after rising 0.5 percent in April. Export prices fell 4.5 percent from a year ago, the smallest drop since December 2014.
U.S. small business confidence edged up in May amid growing concerns about weak sales growth, which are hurting spending on capital goods and inventory investment.
The National Federation of Independent Business (NFIB) said on Tuesday its small business optimism index rose 0.2 point to a reading of 93.8 last month.
Although it was the second straight monthly increase in the index, it remained below the 100 reading in December 2014 and its 42-year average of 98. About 700 small business owners participated in the survey.
Weak spending on capital goods such as machinery, and a slow pace of inventory accumulation, have been a drag on economic growth. Four components of the NFIB index rose last month, while another four fell and two were unchanged.
The hiring rate was little changed in April, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics' Wednesday report.
Job openings hit 5.8 million at the end of April, up slightly from 5.76 million openings in March, according to the Job Openings and Labor Turnover Summary (JOLTS) report.
The report beat economists' consensus expectations of 5.7 million job openings for the month, according to Thomson Reuters.
The monthly report from the Labor Department is a closely followed barometer of economic conditions, and measures job postings in different sectors, and the number of hires and layoffs.
The job openings rate was 3.9 percent in April, with the biggest increase in wholesale trade, transportation, warehousing, and utilities at 65,000 openings. Professional and business services saw the biggest decrease, down 274,000 openings, according to the JOLTS report.
Nearly half of unemployed Americans have quit looking for work, and the numbers are even worse for the long-term jobless, according to a poll released Wednesday that paints a grim picture of the labor market.
Some 59 percent of those who have been out of work for two years or more say they have stopped looking, the Harris Poll of unemployed Americans showed. Overall, 43 percent of the jobless said they have given up, according to the poll released in conjunction with Express Employment Professionals, a job placement service.
"This is a tale of two economies," Express CEO Bob Funk said in a statement. "It's frightening to see this many people who could work say they have given up."
The results come just a few days after a government report showed that the unemployment rate fell to 4.7 percent in May, but the drop came primarily because of a sharp decline in the labor force participation rate. The number of people of all ages whom the government considers "not in the labor force" swelled by 664,000 to a record 94.7 million Americans, according to Labor Department data.
Job creation, after averaging more than 200,000 for much of the recovery, has slowed considerably this year. May saw just 38,000 new jobs, part of a trend in which payrolls have grown an average of 116,000 over the past three months and less than 150,000 for all of 2016.
The greatest concentration of unemployment is in the 18-29 age group, which comprises one-third of all the jobless:
Last week's anemic jobs report for May pushed interest rates lower, but the desire for mortgages was already on the rise.
Mortgage application volume jumped 9.3 percent last week from the previous week, according to the Mortgage Bankers Association. The results were seasonally adjusted, including for the Memorial Day holiday. The volume may have been making up for a big drop two weeks ago, or reacting to a slight drop in interest rates.
Applications to refinance a home loan increased 7 percent, seasonally adjusted, from the previous week, and are nearly 14 percent higher than one year ago. Interest rates were higher at this time last year. Mortgage applications to purchase a home did jump 12 percent for the week, but they are down 19 percent in the past four weeks and down 6 percent from the same week one year ago. Given the high demand for housing, purchase applications should be higher, but a lack of affordable homes for sale is likely keeping volume low.
If Fed Chair Janet Yellen has her way, there likely will be two rate hikes this year, contrary to current market expectations.
While Yellen didn't overtly express that desire, there was one key section of the speech she prepared Monday that strongly signaled two hikes on the way:
Next week, concurrent with our policy meeting, the FOMC participants will release a new set of economic projections. Those could, of course, differ from the previous set of such projections in March. But speaking for myself, although the economy recently has been affected by a mix of countervailing forces, I see good reasons to expect that the positive forces supporting employment growth and higher inflation will continue to outweigh the negative ones.
The translation is fairly simple: Each quarter, the Federal Open Market Committee releases its Summary of Economic Projections, which is basically where members feel the economy is going and what the likely path of the Fed's interest rate target will be.
At the March meeting, FOMC officials indicated that two rate hikes are likely this year. Yellen's remarks indicate her opinion has not changed since then.
"That's still her sense. She's still cautiously optimistic about the economy," said David Blitzer, chairman and managing director at S&P Dow Jones Indices. "She's just watching the data, and right now if anyone could read her mind she's still expecting two rate hikes before the end of the year."
With the chair highly adept so far at consensus building, the likelihood should increase that the Fed will move twice, even though it's something the market currently does not expect.
After the Yellen speech, the market was assigning very little chance of a hike this summer — just a 4 percent probability for June and 31 percent for July. September had a 52 percent probability, just as it did before the speech. But the CME's Fed tracker was indicating just a 21 percent chance for a second hike by December.
"What you're seeing in Yellen's comments today is the Fed is not willing to abandon the promise of at least two rate hikes later this year," said Michael Arone, chief investment strategist for State Street Global Advisors. "The Fed's saying, hold on a minute, there are a number of positives that are occurring and we're holding tight to the idea that we could be raising rates a couple times this year."
Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen struck a generally positive tone on the U.S. economy on Monday, warning that Fed watchers shouldn't overreact to last week's disappointing jobs report.
Speaking at an event in Philadelphia, Yellen insisted that the Fed needs to raise rates, but she stepped back from putting a time frame. Still, the Fed funds rate probably needs to rise gradually over time, and that should come before all of the central bank's economic goals have been fully reached, she said.
Expectations for the next Fed rate hike were knocked back after U.S. nonfarm payroll data on Friday showed U.S. employers had added only 38,000 jobs in May, far below expectations of 164,000.
What's behind the recent slowdown in the U.S. economy? It's the election, stupid.
Some 60 percent of business economists say that uncertainty about the November vote is damaging prospects for growth this year, according to a survey released Monday.
In their latest forecasts, members of the National Association for Business Economics have once again marked down their expectations for this year, pegging the overall growth in gross domestic product at just 1.8 percent. That's down from 2.2 percent in the group's March survey and 2.6 percent in December of last year.
All that hawkish Fed talk in recent weeks, as well as the market's knee-jerk reaction, seemed kind of silly after Friday's dismal jobs report.
Expectations for a summer rate hike fell into a sinkhole Friday after the Labor Department reported that nonfarm payrolls grew by just 38,000 in May, amounting to the worst monthly jobs growth in five years. A decline in the unemployment rate to 4.7 percent came only because 664,000 Americans fell out of the workforce.
All of that happened amid a growing chorus of Fed members professing in recent weeks that a rate hike was appropriate and imminent. The economy, they contended, was gaining steam, with employment near capacity and inflation comfortably climbing toward the U.S. central bank's 2 percent target.
Then just that quickly, expectations changed. Traders who had been pricing in a 58 percent chance of a July rate hike took the likelihood down to 34 percent. Within two hours of the payroll report's release, the market was projecting no rate hike until at least December.
Investors will be looking for signals from Federal Reserve chair Janet Yellen this week about the U.S. central bank's next rate move after shockingly weak payroll data all but killed off chances for a hike this month.
But the focus will also not stray far from developments in Britain as voters there prepare to vote in a referendum on June 23 on whether to stay in the European Union.
Expectations for the next Fed rate hike were knocked back to at least July or later after U.S. non-farm payroll data on Friday showed U.S. employers added only 38,000 jobs in May, far below expectations of 164,000.
May's weak jobs report raises the anxiety level in markets and may have sidelined some investors as they sort through what signals the economy is really sending.
The worst jobs report in more than five years may also have dashed some traders' hopes that stocks can break out to new highs in the near future. Focus could now swing to whether the market can hold its recent range, and every piece of economic data will be important. In the week ahead, there is a relatively light data calendar including productivity and costs Tuesday and the JOLTs report on job openings and turnover on Wednesday.
The big event of the week comes Monday when Fed Chair Janet Yellen speaks in Philadelphia on the economy at midday.
As if the May jobs picture wasn't bad enough already, one economist said it was even worse.
Nonfarm payrolls actually declined 4,000 during the month, according to Jonathan Wright, a Johns Hopkins economic professor who wrote an analysis Friday for the Brookings Institution, a generally left-leaning think tank.
That number compares to the already-dismal 38,000 count released Friday morning from the Labor Department. The report triggered a decline in the stock market and, perhaps more importantly, a sharp drop in expectations for interest rate hikes this year.
Wright said he arrived at his number by diverging from the government in the way seasonal adjustments are made to the numbers. Whereas the Bureau of Labor Statistics "puts very heavy weight on the current and last two years of data," the Wright method involves going back over six years to measure seasonal patterns, "which makes them more stable over time than in the current BLS seasonal adjustment method," he wrote.
Over the past 12 months, there have been times when the numbers were close and others when they diverged widely, including occasions when Wright estimated considerably more jobs added than the BLS:
The latest disappointing U.S. jobs number has not changed the overall economic picture and gradual rate hikes remain appropriate, Cleveland Federal Reserve President Loretta Mester said on Saturday.
The Fed raised rates in December for the first time in nearly a decade. But further tightening has proven hard to achieve, and most economists now see the next move in September.
"I still believe that in order to achieve our monetary policy goals, a gradual upward pace of the funds rate is appropriate," Mester, a voting member on Fed policy this year, told reporters in the Swedish capital.
"The timing of actually when the rate hikes would occur and the slope of that gradual path is data-dependent."  Fed policy-makers next meet on June 14-15 to decide on rates.
The U.S. economy's rebound from a weak winter has moved the Federal Reserve closer to raising rates, though last month's poor employment report might give it pause, a top Fed official said on Monday
Boston Fed President Eric Rosengren, speaking in Finland, gave the latest hint that while the U.S. central bank remains on track to continue tightening policy it likely will not do so at a June 14-15 meeting.
Job creation tumbled in May, with the economy adding just 38,000 positions, casting doubt on hopes for a stronger economic recovery as well as a Fed rate hike this summer.
The Labor Department also reported Friday that the headline unemployment fell to 4.7 percent. That rate does not include those who did not actively look for employment during the month or the underemployed who were working part time for economic reasons. A more encompassing rate that includes those groups held steady at 9.7 percent.
Wall Street was looking for payroll growth of 162,000 and the unemployment rate holding steady at 5.0 percent.
"There's one word for it, which is just shocking," said Dan North, chief economist at Euler Hermes North America. "Unfortunately it does look like a trend. It's not great news."
Get the market reaction here.
The disappointing report immediately clouded the possibility of a Fed rate hike in June or July.
The probability for a June move plunged to 6 percent from 21 percent before the 8:30 a.m. ET release, while July fell to 42 percent from 58 percent. September now is the next most likely date for a rate increase, with a better-than-a-coin-flip chance of 52 percent.
"It makes it a lot tougher for the Fed, clearly. It now puts them in an awkward position of having to justify higher rates into a slowing job market," said David Lafferty, chief market strategist at Natixis Global Asset Management. "I don't think history would look very favorably on that."
The probability for a June rate hike plummeted Friday after a major miss in the May jobs report.
The Labor Department report said U.S. economy added just 38,000 jobs, far below economist estimates of 162,000.
Prior to the jobs report, the CME Group FedWatch tool of market sentiment saw a 21 percent chance of a June rate hike. Those odds dropped as low as 4 percent after the employment report.
Federal Reserve policymakers meet June 14-15 to decide on whether to increase the central bank's key interest rate for only the second time in a decade.
The U.S. unemployment rate fell to 4.7 percent in May, even as job growth failed to meet expectations. But does that tell the whole story?
Every month on jobs day, the Labor Department's Bureau of Labor Statistics puts out a ton of employment-related data, each of which tells its own story about the state of the economy. Economists look past the official unemployment rate — known as the "U-3" number — to other metrics that provide more nuanced views of the employment situation.
The U-3 rate is defined as the "total unemployed, as a percent of the civilian labor force," but doesn't include a number of employment situations. A broader figure is the U-6 rate, which many economists rely on as a more accurate portrayal of employment in the country.
The U-6 rate remained unchanged at 9.7 percent in May.
Growing up in Little Rock, Arkansas, Tracy House never saw a soy bean or a corn seed, much less the high tech equipment used by today's farmers. That is, until he interned with Monsanto.
"I never knew how much technology went into farming, and once I got onto that tractor it was kind of like stepping on a spaceship," he said. "And I was like 'wow,' there's a lot that goes into agriculture."
Agriculture companies like Monsanto are trying to replicate that "wow factor" many times over with recruits. Potential hires are in short supply, and some of the most coveted college graduates are being snapped up by Silicon Valley firms.
How big is the shortage? A 2015 study by the U.S. Department of Agriculture and Purdue University estimates that high skilled jobs in agriculture will outpace the number of college graduates qualified to fill them by 22,500 each year. While half of the job openings are in business management, 27 percent are in the highly competitive STEM space or science, math engineering and technology.
"Some of the most difficult-to-fill positions tend to be software engineers. The competition is vast," said Melissa Harper, Monsanto's vice president of global talent acquisition, inclusion and diversity. "Everyone is looking for data scientists, those are people who not only understand data but have the ability to translate it into commercial insights for farmers, and the third would be cybersecurity."
The number of Americans applying for unemployment benefits unexpectedly fell last week, pointing to a tightening labor market.
Initial claims for state unemployment benefits slipped 1,000 to a seasonally adjusted 267,000 for the week ended May 28, the Labor Department said on Thursday. Claims for the prior week were unrevised.
Economists polled by Reuters had forecast initial claims rising to 270,000 in the latest week. Claims have now been below 300,000, a threshold associated with a strong job market, for 65 straight weeks, the longest streak since 1973.
Job growth continued to cool in May, with private companies adding 173,000 new positions, according to a report Thursday from ADP and Moody's Analytics.
The closely watched private payrolls count was right around Wall Street expectations, with economists surveyed by Reuters anticipating growth of 175,000. The number also was a bit higher than April, which posted an upwardly revised 166,000 new jobs. The ADP/Moody's count has averaged 188,000 in 2016.
Moreover, the gains came entirely from the service sector, which added 175,000 positions. Goods-producing companies actually lost 1,000 jobs (ADP rounds its figures, creating a discrepancy from the final number). Manufacturing subtracted 3,000 jobs.
This is a breaking news story. Please check back for further updates.
U.S.-based employers announced in May the fewest layoffs in five months as job cutting fell significantly across several sectors, according to a private survey released Thursday.
Planned payroll reductions totaled 30,157 last month, marking a 27 percent decline from the year ago period and the lowest total since December, according to outplacement firm Challenger, Gray & Christmas.
"May could be the start of a summer slowdown in the pace of job cutting as companies take a pause following the period of heavy downsizing that started the year," CEO John A. Challenger said in a statement.
Companies typically reduce the pace of layoffs in the summer as managers assess strategies initiated in the first quarter, and as they go on vacation, Challenger noted.
Jack Welch, former chairman and CEO of General Electric, said Thursday the Obama administration's heavy focus on combating climate change is "radical behavior" that's holding back the economy.
A longtime GOP supporter, Welch told CNBC's "Squawk Box" the priority on preventing climate change spills over into "all kinds of policies throughout the different agencies."
The result, he said: "You get an economy that won't move. You get ozone regs that are wacky."
"You [also] get a reduced military," he added — saying the U.S. needs to rebuild its national defenses to combat the threat from the so-called Islamic State terrorist group. "You can't be sitting here with the real threat of a caliphate and ISIL ... and talking about climate change."
Welch said he's not a climate-change denier, just pointing out the "cost of doing it; it's got to be more balanced."
He feels the White House should be focusing elsewhere to get the economy back to a 3 percent growth rate. "In my view, it's a massive deregulation. It's all of the above. It's deregulation. It's [reforming] taxes."
"What we've got is a habitualized low-growth environment," said Welch, who actively participates in managing numerous companies as part of private equity group Clayton Dubilier & Rice, where he serves as senior advisor. "Most of these guys haven't been CEOs in good times."
Welch is also the executive chairman of the Jack Welch Management Institute at Strayer University, which offers online MBA and executive certificate programs.
Britain's possible exit from the European Union will be a factor as U.S. Federal Reserve policymakers weigh whether they should raise interest rates later this month, Fed Board Governor Daniel Tarullo said on Thursday.
"In the short term it is more a question of the immediate impact on markets," Tarullo said in a Bloomberg TV interview. "If there are implications for growth over time, to the degree it's a factor (in the June rate decision) it's taking into account what will happen in financial markets and the immediate aftermath of the vote."
Tarullo also suggested he sees further scope for improvement in the labor market, saying "there is a possibility of getting more employment and higher wages."
Consumers were feeling less optimistic for the second month in a row, new data said Tuesday.
The Consumer Confidence Index fell to 92.6 in May, the Conference Board said. Economists expected the index to rise to 96 in May, up from April's revised reading of 94.7 in April, according to a Thomson Reuters consensus estimate.
The survey, a closely followed barometer of consumer attitudes, measures sentiment toward business conditions, short-term outlook, personal finances and jobs.
U.S. consumer spending recorded its biggest increase in more than six years in April as households stepped up purchases of automobiles, suggesting an acceleration in economic growth that could persuade the Federal Reserve to raise interest rates soon.
Though other data on Tuesday showed an ebb in consumer confidence in May, spending is likely to remain supported by strong gains in house prices, as well as a strengthening labor market, which is steadily pushing up wages.
"This takes the Fed a step and a half closer to the next increase in interest rates," said John Ryding, chief economist at RDQ Economics in New York.
Fed Chair Janet Yellen said on Friday an interest rate hike would probably be appropriate in the "coming months," if the economy continued to pick up and the labor market added jobs. Her views were similar to those expressed in minutes from the Fed's April 26-27 policy meeting published recently.
The Chicago Purchasing Managers Index fell unexpectedly in May, falling short of economists' estimates.
The Chicago PMI came in at 49.3 in May. Economists polled by Reuters had expected a reading of 50.5. (A reading below 50.0 indicates contraction in the economy.)
For decades, bosses at publishing houses, glossy magazines, consulting firms, advocacy groups, movie production companies and talent agencies have groomed their assistants to be the next generation of big shots by working them long hours for low wages.
Call it the "Devil Wears Prada" economy, after the novel depicting life working for a fictionalized Anna Wintour, the longtime Vogue editor.
But now, with the Obama administration moving to require time-and-a-half overtime pay for most salaried employees making less than $47,476 a year, that business model is suddenly under assault. The change presents more than an economic challenge for the companies that rely on the willingness of young, ambitious workers to trade pay and self-respect for a shot at a prestige job down the road.
U.S. economic growth slowed in the first quarter although not as sharply as initially thought, amid a surge in spending on home building and a steady increase in inventory investment by businesses.
Gross domestic product rose at a 0.8 percent annual rate as opposed to the 0.5 percent pace reported last month, the Commerce Department said in its second GDP estimate on Friday. It was the weakest performance since the first quarter of 2015.
The upward revision to the first-quarter GDP growth estimate also reflected a smaller drag from trade than previously reported. The government also reported a rebound in after-tax corporate profits, which increased at a 0.6 percent rate in the first quarter after plunging at an 8.4 percent pace in the fourth quarter.
Federal Reserve  Governor Jerome Powell said Thursday an interest rate hike could be appropriate fairly soon, adding that he supports gradual increases if data underpin forecasts for an improving economy.
In prepared remarks from Washington, Powell said he wants to see "significant strengthening" in second-quarter economic growth. He added that he sees the U.S. economy moving toward maximum employment and stable prices, with an oil price rally and weaker dollar helping inflation toward the Fed's 2 percent goal.
"If incoming data continue to support those expectations, I would see it as appropriate to continue to gradually raise the federal funds rate. Depending on the incoming data and the evolving risks, another rate increase may be appropriate fairly soon," he said at the Peterson Institute for International Economics.
Powell is a voter on the Fed's policymaking committee.
Financial markets have a more appropriate reading now on the chances of a U.S. interest rate rise in June than before, St. Louis Federal Reserve President James Bullard said on Thursday.
"I think they read the minutes correctly," Bullard told reporters after a speech in Singapore, referring to the minutes of the Fed's latest policy meeting in April.
Global investors, many of whom had assumed the Federal Reserve was in no rush to raise interest rates, were jolted last week by the minutes which suggested most policymakers felt the U.S. economy could be ready for another rate increase in June.
Bullard said is keeping an open mind on whether the Fed should raise interest rates at its June 14-15 meeting, adding that he wanted to see economic data that is available then.
The number of Americans filing for unemployment benefits fell more than expected last week, moving back to near cycle lows as the labor markets remains healthy and the economy regains momentum after stumbling in the first quarter.
Initial claims for state unemployment benefits declined 10,000 to a seasonally adjusted 268,000 for the week ended May 21, the Labor Department said on Thursday. Claims for the prior week were unrevised.
Economists polled by Reuters had forecast initial claims falling to 275,000 in the latest week. Claims have now been below 300,000, a threshold associated with a strong job market, for 64 straight weeks, the longest stretch since 1973.
While the two consecutive weeks of decline helped to unwind some of the jump in claims between late April and early May, the trend in jobless claims has become less favorable.
Orders for long-lasting U.S. manufactured goods surged in April on strong demand for transportation equipment and a range of other products, but continued weakness in business spending plans suggested the manufacturing rout was far from over.
The Commerce Department said on Thursday orders for durable goods, items ranging from toasters to aircraft meant to last three years or more, jumped 3.4 percent last month after an upwardly revised 1.9 percent increase in March.
Durable goods orders were previously reported to have risen 1.3 percent in March.
Non-defense capital goods orders excluding aircraft, a closely watched proxy for business spending plans, fell 0.8 percent after an upwardly revised 0.1 percent drop the prior month. These so-called core capital goods orders have now declined for three consecutive months. They were previously reported to have declined 0.8 percent in March.
The Federal Reserve should hike interest rates at a mid-June policy meeting unless data before then shows the U.S. economy is falling off its positive track, Philadelphia Fed President Patrick Harker said on Monday.
A relatively tight labour market in the United States may put upward pressure on inflation, raising the case for higher interest rates, St. Louis Federal Reserve President James Bullard said on Monday.
The comments come as financial markets have increased expectations for a U.S. interest rate hike in June or July and a range of policymakers are now stating that a rise is firmly on the table for the next policy meeting in June.
"Labor markets are relatively tight. This may put upward pressure on inflation going forward," Bullard, a voting member of the Fed's policy-setting committee, said in Beijing.
"This is an important factor supporting the FOMC view on the expected path of the policy rate," he said.
The odds of a Federal Reserve rate increase have risen recently, but financial markets still haven't given the central bank a green light to keep tightening, Jurrien Timmer of Fidelity Investments said Monday.
"I don't think the market is giving the Fed a blessing at all. I think the Fed is testing the waters to see if they can get away with a June hike, and so far, at 30 percent odds, we're not quite there yet," the company's director of global macro told CNBC's "Squawk Box."
The chances of a rate hike were brought up by increasingly hawkish remarks from Fed officials, most recently St. Louis Fed President James Bullard.
Bullard, a voting member of the central bank's policymaking committee, said in a Monday speech that a relatively tight labor market in the United States may put upward pressure on inflation, raising the case for higher interest rates.
The number of Americans filing for unemployment aid fell from a 14-month high last week, the latest sign that the economy was regaining speed after stumbling in the first quarter.
Another report on Thursday showed factory activity in the mid-Atlantic region contracted further in May, although manufacturers continued to anticipate a pickup in activity over the next six months.
Initial claims for state unemployment benefits declined 16,000 to a seasonally adjusted 278,000 for the week ended May 14, the Labor Department said. That was the biggest drop since February and snapped a three-week string of increases.
Claims have now been below 300,000, a threshold associated with a strong job market, for 63 straight weeks, the longest stretch since 1973.
A key economic measure increased in April, reflecting strength in housing and manufacturing, according to new data released by The Conference Board Thursday.
The Leading Economic Index rose to 0.6 percent in April, following no change in March, and a 0.1 percent increase in February.
The most recent LEI, a closely followed barometer of economic health, beat consensus estimates. Economists expected the Index to hit 0.4 percent in April, according to Thomson Reuters.
The market was somewhat spooked by the minutes from the Federal Reserve's April meeting, which suggested that if the economy continues to improve, the central bank will raise interest rates in June. But Marc Faber has an alternative take on what the central bank is up to.
In the minutes released Wednesday, it was recorded that "Most participants judged that if incoming data were consistent with economic growth picking up in the second quarter, labor market conditions continuing to strengthen, and inflation making progress toward the Committee's 2 percent objective, then it likely would be appropriate for the Committee to increase the target range for the federal funds rate in June."
While Fed officials frequently highlight their data dependency, the minutes surprised market participants who had thought a June hike was out of the question, and the release consequently led to a dip in stocks and a rise in yields on Wednesday afternoon.
Yet Faber, the editor of the Gloom, Boom & Doom Report, questions the Fed's stated reliance on economic data. In fact, to him, gauging the market's reaction to the potential for a June hike was part of the point of the release.
The Fed "said a rate hike is on the table so they can watch the market reaction," Faber said Wednesday on CNBC's "Trading Nation."
"If we are, in June, 10 to 20 percent lower in stocks and bond yields are up, they're not going to move. If, on the other hand, the market is relatively stable and moves up from here, maybe not to new highs but above 2,000 on the S&P, they will probably move," he said, referring to a level that was actually 48 points below Wednesday's closing price. "They're very much market dependent in my opinion."
Read More Fed rate hike will juice economy, stocks: Jim Paulsen
Not that the investor known as "Dr. Doom" gives any credence to the standard datapoints upon which economists and investors typically rely.
"My sense is that the economy is, in some sectors, hardly growing," Faber said. "The retail sales figures are very suspicious and the employment figures are also suspicious. The difficulty is, can you trust the published data, whether that is in the U.S., in Europe or in China?"
Read MoreThe case for a July interest rate hike
Asked to answer his own question, Faber responded: "Of course I don't."
Of course, for those who disbelieve economic data releases, depending on the markets to tell all may be the only real option remaining.
After pricing out the possibility of another rate hike this year, Tuesday's stronger than expected reading on Consumer Prices whipsawed bond traders, forcing them to price back in the possibility of a rate hike as early as next month.
Adding to the ever-shifting mood, Federal Reserve official Dennis Lockhart suggested the markets may see one, two, or even three rate hikes this year, more than the market currently anticipates, further destabilizing the already fragile market's emotional state.
It's is true that readings on inflation have risen of late, with core Consumer Prices, which exclude volatile food and energy costs, touching, or even mildly exceeding the Fed's 2 percent objective.
However, the Fed's preferred measure of overall inflation, the core PCE Deflator, remains a few tenths of a percent below target, suggesting patience may still be a virtue.
The Federal Reserve is torn about whether it is leading the stock market or does it react to it, but it is clear the central bank is worried the market has been underestimating the probability of a rate hike, Allianz's chief economic advisor, Mohamed El-Erian, said Wednesday.
The Fed released the minutes from its April meeting Wednesday, which show it will likely raise interest rates in June if economic data points to stronger second-quarter growth as well as firming inflation and employment.
"Moves in financial conditions as a whole are making them more confident about going forward and they were worried that the markets were underestimating the possibility of a rate hike this year and they wanted to do something about it," El-Erian said in an interview with CNBC's "Closing Bell."
If it weren't for the so-called Brexit vote, when British citizens vote on whether to stay in the European Union, he thinks the Fed would hike as soon as June. The vote comes on June 23, shortly after the U.S. central bank's meeting.
He believes July is a definite possibility, despite the fact that there is no news conference scheduled for after the meeting.
In the end, what's clear is a hike will definitely happen this year, he said. And when that occurs, he expect moves in the dollar, which will impact things like oil and other commodities.
"If the Fed unambiguously signals that it will move, you will see a stronger dollar and that … will have consequences on other markets," El-Erian said.
The Federal Reserve will likely raise interest rates in June if economic data points to stronger second-quarter growth as well as firming inflation and employment, according to minutes from the U.S. central bank's April policy meeting released on Wednesday.
That view, expressed by most Fed policymakers at the last policy meeting, suggests the central bank is much closer to lifting rates again than Wall Street expects.
Prices for futures contracts on the Fed's benchmark overnight lending rate on Wednesday implied that investors only saw a 19 percent chance of a rate increase next month.
But members of the Fed's policy-setting committee said recent economic data made them more confident inflation was rising toward their 2 percent target and that they were less concerned about a global economic slowdown, according to the minutes from the April 26-27 meeting.
"Most participants judged that if incoming data were consistent with economic growth picking up in the second quarter, labor markets continued to strengthen, and inflation making progress toward the committee's 2 percent objective, then it likely would be appropriate for the committee to increase the target range for the federal funds rate in June," according to the minutes.
If the Federal Reserve wants to juice the growth rate of the U.S. economy and send stocks higher, it should raise interest rates and start a normal process of tightening instead of dragging it out, closely watched strategist Jim Paulsen said Wednesday.
The minutes from the central bank's April meeting, released Wednesday, show the Fed will likely raise interest rates in June if economic data points to stronger second-quarter growth as well as firming inflation and employment.
"This Fed has suspended Wall Street at the first tightening move and has perpetuated the fear that has lasted at least two years," the chief investment strategist at Wells Capital Management said in an interview with CNBC's "Power Lunch."
While the central bank started the process of ending its quantitative easing  program in 2014, it did not make its first rate hike until December 2015, he pointed out.
Paulsen said, "Then they paused again and it's like stretching out or perpetually keeping us in this pattern of fear.
"If they get away from that and start a regular rise in rates I think Wall Street will calm down like it has in the past and the market will start trading more on fundamentals and do far better."
Expectations for a June rate hike jumped as Federal Reserve meeting minutes released Wednesday showed that members would support it if economic data improved.
Ahead of the release, market expectations for a rate rise next month were 19 percent, while the markets were expecting the first rate hike of 2016 to take place in September, according to the CME Group's FedWatch tool.
After the statement, odds rose in all months tracked by CME:
The odds of rate hikes this year have risen broadly this week, as several Fed officials delivered hawkish remarks.
On Tuesday, three central bank officials indicated it may raise rates again soon.
Wall Street is at least beginning to entertain the thought that rates may rise a time or two this year, though fear of the Fed remains low.
Prior to Wednesday's release of the April Federal Open Market Committee minutes, the Street was skeptical that some of the recent tough talk would lead to action.
The prevailing sentiment was that all of the Fed jawboning was likely just that — talk, trying to make sure the market doesn't get too complacent about the possibility of tightening at some point this year, according to multiple experts on the Street who believe the likelihood of a June move remains low.
The minutes indicated a sentiment on the FOMC that should economic data continue to progress, a June hike would be "appropriate." However, the market's heard that chorus from the Fed before — that policymakers are "data dependent" and will react as conditions warrant.
Market experts believe that economic reports between now and the June 14-15 FOMC meeting would have to be pretty much pristine to move the prevailing dovish voting bloc off its position.
"If every single one of those was a report that was way stronger than expectations and showed the slack in the economy had been taken up at a rapid pace here in the second quarter, then all else being equal the Fed would probably raise rates in June and sit back and wait. That's barring any kind of January- or February-like global disruptions," John Canally, chief economic strategist at LPL Financial, said in an interview. "Do I think that's likely to happen? No."
The hawkish contingent of Fed members would like investors to believe otherwise. FOMC members John Williams, Loretta Mester and James Bullard have been pushing the theory that conditions are ripe for at least two hikes this year.
So what gives?
It's time for the Federal Reserve to hike rates, Bank of America executives say. It's just not clear whether Janet Yellen agrees.
Right now there's a paltry 15 percent chance the Fed will hike rates at its June meeting, according to CME Group's FedWatch — and that's a big increase in odds from the beginning of this week, when it was closer to 4 percent. While few on Wall Street believe there's going to be an interest rate hike coming any time soon, Bank of America executives still sound like they're hoping for one.
"We would benefit from a more normal rate environment," Bank of America CFO Paul Donofrio said Wednesday at the Barclays Select Franchise Conference in London. "If rates would get there faster, it would help" boost the bank's returns.
He went on to say that the bank is implementing changes to help it offset the low rates at the Fed.
U.S. consumer prices recorded their biggest increase in more than three years in April as gasoline and rents rose, pointing to a steady inflation build-up that could give the Federal Reserve ammunition to raise interest rates later this year.
The Labor Department said on Tuesday its Consumer Price Index  increased 0.4 percent last month, the largest gain since February 2013, after rising 0.1 percent in March. That took the year-on-year increase in the CPI to 1.1 percent from 0.9 percent in March.
There were also increases in medical care and food prices. Economists polled by Reuters had forecast the CPI gaining 0.3 percent last month and advancing 1.1 percent from a year ago.
The so-called core CPI, which strips out food and energy costs, rose 0.2 percent after climbing 0.1 percent in March. In the 12 months through April, the core CPI increased 2.1 percent after increasing 2.2 percent in March.
U.S. factory output expanded in April as makers of machinery and cars posted solid increases in production, a sign that the country's manufacturing sector was resisting the downward pull from sputtering global growth.
Manufacturing output rose 0.3 percent, the Federal Reserve said on Tuesday. The reading matched the gain expected in a Reuters poll of economists.
Overall industrial output rose 0.7 percent last month, beating the consensus forecast of a 0.3 percent gain, as utilities output rebounded from March when it was restrained by warmer-than-usual weather.
Mining output, another component of total industrial production, fell 2.3 percent in April.
U.S. housing starts rose more than expected in April as builders ramped up the construction of single and multifamily homes, supporting views that the economy was regaining steam early in the second quarter.
Groundbreaking increased 6.6 percent to a seasonally adjusted annual pace of 1.17 million units, the Commerce Department said on Tuesday. March's starts were revised up slightly to a 1.10 million-unit rate from the previously reported 1.09 million-unit pace.
Economists polled by Reuters had forecast housing starts rising to a 1.13 million-unit pace last month. The government revised seasonally adjusted housing starts data from January 2014 through March this year.
Last month's housing starts data added to strong April retail sales in suggesting that the economy was picking up momentum after growth almost halted in the first quarter.
The average pay for an S&P 500 CEO was $12.4 million in 2015, or 335 times the pay of a rank-and-file worker, according to a new report from the AFL-CIO.
That gap is actually narrower than the one posted in 2014, when CEOs earned $13.5 million, or 373 times the pay of the average worker.
The 2015 AFL-CIO Executive PayWatch compares average compensation of S&P 500 CEOs with the average pay of nonsupervisory workers as reported by the Bureau of Labor Statistics. Nonsupervisory workers earned $36,875 in 2015.
China may be in the middle of a growth slowdown, but its investors will find a way to keep pumping money into the United States over the next decade, according to a new report.
In fact, the deceleration of China's economy may be one of the primary factors driving up investment in countries like the U.S., according to the study from the Asia Society and Rosen Consulting Group. Released on Monday, the report projected that Chinese direct investment "across existing U.S. commercial real estate assets and residential purchases" could hit at least $218 billion from 2016 through 2020 — and that's excluding new development projects.
The Federal Reserve should consider raising rates at its June meeting, Richmond Fed President Jeffrey Lacker told the Washington Post in an interview published on Monday, saying inflation was moving toward two percent and labor markets had tightened.
"I never completely make up my mind before a meeting, but at this point it looks to me as if the case for raising rates looks to be pretty strong in June," Lacker told the Post.
Financial markets have all but priced out a June move and Lacker, who is not a voting member of the Fed's policy-making board this year, warned that there were risks with delaying any hike.
Factory activity in New York shrank in May after expanding for two months, as manufacturers received fewer orders and shipments fell.
The Federal Reserve Bank of New York says that its Empire State manufacturing index slumped to minus 9 in May, after reaching 9.6 the previous month. Any reading below zero points to contraction.
The figures suggest that factories in the state continue to struggle despite growth in March and April. Factory output nationwide has been sluggish in the past year as a weak global economy has lowered exports and U.S. businesses are spending less on equipment and machinery.
A measure of new orders fell to minus 5.5, from 11.1 the previous month. And a gauge of shipments also slipped into negative territory, falling to minus 1.9 from 10.2.
With the U.S. economic outlook "definitely looking good," the U.S. central bank is on the cusp of deciding whether to raise rates at any of its next few meetings, San Francisco Federal Reserve Bank President John Williams said on Friday.
"I view the balancing act as very similar to the balancing act that kind of led to the first rate increase. ... We have to be making the decision. Do we want to wait a little longer or act now?" Williams told reporters after a speech at the Sacramento Economic Forum.
Two to three rate increases this year "definitely still makes sense," he said.
The Fed raised rates in December for the first time in nearly a decade, but has kept them on hold since then largely because of worries over a slowdown in China and Europe.
U.S. business inventories rose more than expected in March as automobile stocks recorded their biggest increase since 2013, suggesting that the first-quarter's weak economic growth estimate could be revised higher.
The Commerce Department said on Friday that inventories increased 0.4 percent in March, the largest rise since June, after an unrevised 0.1 percent dip in February.
Auto inventories surged 2.3 percent, the biggest increase since October 2013, following a 1.6 percent rise in February. The inventory-to-sales ratio for motor vehicles rose to 2.30 in March, the highest since April 2009.
You might be surprised by the way people in the U.S. today view the "American dream." Flip the cards below to see how your views line up with those of 2,000 U.S. adults recently surveyed by Northwestern Mutual.
Consumers were feeling more optimistic this month, as expectations for future growth hit highs for the year, according to preliminary data released Friday.
The Index of Consumer Sentiment hit 95.8 in May, the University of Michigan said Friday, its highest level since June 2015. Economists expected the index to hit 90 for May, up slightly from 89 in April.
U.S. producer prices rose in April as energy prices increased, but a marginal gain in the cost of services pointed to a moderate increase in inflation in the coming months.
The Labor Department said on Friday its producer price index climbed 0.2 percent last month after slipping 0.1 percent in March. In the 12 months through April, the PPI was unchanged after dipping 0.1 percent in March.
Economists polled by Reuters had forecast the PPI gaining 0.3 percent last month and rising 0.2 percent from a year ago.
Inflation continues to be restrained by the lingering effects of the dollar's surge and oil price plunge. The greenback gained 20 percent against the currencies of the United States' trading partners between June 2014 and December 2015.
Read MoreUS retail sales rose 1.3 percent in April
The dollar has this year dropped 2.5 percent on a trade-weighted basis and oil has bounced off multi-year lows.
Last month, energy prices increased 0.2 percent after increasing 1.8 percent in March. Wholesale food prices fell 0.3 percent following a 0.9 percent drop in March. Wholesale chicken eggs tumbled 33.9 percent in April.
Prices for services edged up 0.1 percent after slipping 0.2 percent in March.
A key measure of underlying producer price pressures that excludes food, energy and trade services rose 0.3 percent last month after being unchanged in March. The so-called core PPI was up 0.9 percent in the 12 months through April after a similar increase in March.
It's no secret that raising the minimum wage is a policy that's widely popular with Democratic and Republican voters alike. Even a large majority of businesses support raising the minimum wage, contrary to what business lobbyists like the Chamber of Commerce peddle in the halls of Congress.
That's because Americans understand it's not right when people put in long hours at work, sometimes at two or more jobs, but still can barely afford to get by. The public also doesn't fall for the myth of job loss that's always prophesied by big business lobbyists but that never comes true when the minimum wage goes up.
Faced with the reality of popular opinion, real-world economics, and sheer human decency, what are GOP politicians opposed to raising the federal minimum wage to do? They trot out one of their "greatest hits" talking points, of course—that this should be a matter for the states to decide. And look, they say, the states are taking care of it, pointing to successful campaigns in places like New York, California, and Oregon.
One strategist is maintaining his fairly optimistic outlook despite the looming risks of events in June like a possible British exit from the European Union or a surprise rate hike from the Federal Reserve.
Jonathan Golub, chief U.S. market strategist at RBC Capital Markets, told CNBC's "Squawk on the Street" that while the economic data has not been entirely positive, it doesn't mean that the U.S. economy is doing poorly.
"The economy, as the data's showing, is tepid but absolutely not recessionary," Golub said on Friday.
"I think when you look towards the latter part of the year, you'll see earnings pickup as the headwinds from energy roll away," he added.
U.S. retail sales in April recorded their biggest increase in a year as Americans stepped up purchases of automobiles and a range of other goods, suggesting the economy was regaining momentum after growth almost stalled in the first quarter.
The Commerce Department said on Friday retail sales jumped 1.3 percent last month, the largest gain since March 2015. March's retail sales were revised up to show a 0.3 percent decline instead of the previously reported 0.4 percent drop.
Excluding automobiles, gasoline, building materials and food services, retail sales shot up 0.9 percent last month after an upwardly revised 0.2 percent gain in March.
These so-called core retail sales correspond most closely with the consumer spending component of gross domestic product.
America is falling apart. And the repair bill is getting bigger.
That's the conclusion of the latest "report card" on American roads, bridges, airports, power grid and other critical infrastructure from the American Society of Civil Engineers.
Over the next decade, it would cost more than $3.3 trillion to keep up with repairs and replacements, but based on current funding levels, the nation will come up more than $1.4 trillion short, the group says. When projected to 2040, the shortfall is expected to top $5 trillion, unless new funds are allocated.
Without that investment, the group said in its report this week, Americans can look forward to more highway traffic jams, airport bottlenecks and potential power outages. The deterioration of U.S. ports, roads, trains, water and electric facilities will also take an economic toll, the engineers said, cutting payroll growth by some 2.5 million jobs and some $4 trillion of gross domestic product in lost sales and higher costs.
"America is currently spending more failing to act on its infrastructure gap than it would to close it," said Greg DiLoreto, the society's past president and chairman of the Committee for America's Infrastructure.
The funding gap hasn't escaped the attention of the three remaining presidential candidates. In a rare example of consensus, both Republican Donald Trump and Democrats Hillary Clinton and Bernie Sanders agree that the U.S. needs to make a substantial investment in rebuilding.
Sanders has proposed spending $1 trillion to create more than 13 million new jobs to rebuild highways, airports and other public infrastructure, noting that these "are jobs that cannot be shipped offshore or outsourced overseas."
Clinton wants to commit $275 billion in public funds over five years, including $25 billion for a national infrastructure bank to generate another $225 billion in direct loans, loan guarantees and other forms of credit.
And while Trump has not proposed a specific funding level, he says he's in favor of major public investment in infrastructure repair and expansion.
"We're spending billions of dollars protecting countries that should be paying us to do the job yet we can't build roads in our own cities, he wrote in "Crippled America: How to Make America Great Again." "If we do what we have to do correctly, we can create the biggest economic boom in this country since the New Deal when our vast infrastructure was first put into place. It's a no-brainer."
The number of Americans filing for unemployment benefits unexpectedly rose last week, touching the highest level in more than a year, which could raise concerns about labor market health in the wake of the slowdown in job gains in April.
Initial claims for state unemployment benefits increased 20,000 to a seasonally adjusted 294,000 for the week ended May 7, the highest level since late February 2015, the Labor Department said on Thursday.
Claims for the prior week were unrevised. Economists polled by Reuters had forecast initial claims slipping to 270,000 in the latest week.
U.S. import prices rose in April for a second straight month as the cost of petroleum products and a range of other goods increased, suggesting inflation could start firming in the months ahead.
The Labor Department said on Thursday that import prices increased 0.3 percent last month after an upwardly revised 0.3 percent gain in March. The rise last month reflected a pick-up in oil prices and the dollar's depreciation.
Economists polled by Reuters had forecast import prices rising 0.5 percent in April after March's previously reported 0.2 percent advance.
Prices for imported goods were down 5.7 percent in the 12 months through April, reflecting the lingering effects of the dollar's sharp rally and the oil price plunge between June 2014 and December 2015.
Last month's increase in import prices implied that the disinflationary impulse from a stronger dollar, which has helped to hold inflation well below the Federal Reserve's 2 percent target, was fading.
The dollar has this year weakened 2.5 percent against the currencies of the United States' main trading partners. The greenback gained 20 percent on a trade-weighted basis between June 2014 and December 2015.
At the same time, oil prices have pushed off multi-year lows.
Imported petroleum prices increased 4.1 percent last month after rising 9.6 percent in March. Import prices excluding petroleum edged up 0.1 percent, the first increase since March 2014.
Imported food prices jumped 1.3 percent last month, also the largest gain since March 2014. Prices for imported industrial supplies and materials excluding petroleum increased 0.4 percent.
Prices for imported capital goods slipped 0.1 percent, while the cost of imported automobiles edged up 0.1 percent. Prices for imported consumer goods excluding autos fell 0.3 percent.
The report also showed export prices increased 0.5 percent in April, the largest rise since May 2015, after being flat in March. Export prices were down 5.0 percent from a year ago.
The U.S. economy's fundamentals are solid and growth this year should pick up to around 2.5 percent, but the Federal Reserve's  current 'wait and see' approach to monetary policy is appropriate, a Fed policymaker said on Monday.
Charles Evans, president of the Chicago Fed, told a conference in London that business investment and inflation remain lower than he would like.
The most recent indications from Fed officials point to two more interest rate hikes this year. Financial markets, however, are barely pricing in one more, and that is not expected until December, after the U.S. presidential election.
The number of Americans filing for unemployment benefits rose more than expected last week, posting the biggest gain in more than a year, but the underlying trend continued to point to a strengthening labor market.
Initial claims for state unemployment benefits increased 17,000 to a seasonally adjusted 274,000 for the week ended April 30, the Labor Department said on Thursday. Last week's increase was the largest since February of last year.
Claims for the prior week were unrevised. Economists polled by Reuters had forecast initial claims rising to 260,000 in the latest week. Jobless claims have now been below 300,000, a threshold associated with healthy labor market conditions, for 61 consecutive weeks, the longest stretch since 1973.
A Labor Department analyst said there were no special factors influencing last week's claims data and only claims for the District of Columbia had been estimated.
Layoffs by U.S.-based companies accelerated in April, sending year-to-date job cuts to the highest level since 2009, a private study reported Thursday.
Domestic companies announced plans to let go 65,141 workers last month, a 35 percent increase from March, according to the report by outplacement firm Challenger, Gray & Christmas .
In the first four months of the year, employers said they would hand out 250,061 pink slips. That is the highest total for the January-to-April period since 2009.
"We continue to see large scale layoffs in the energy sector, where low oil prices are driving down profits. However, we are also seeing heavy downsizing activity in other areas, such as computers and retail, where changing consumer trends are creating a lot of volatility," Challenger CEO John A. Challenger said in a statement.
Donald Trump told CNBC on Thursday he's for low interest rates unless inflation perks up, and he would probably replace Janet Yellen when her term is up as Federal Reserve chair.
"I have nothing against Janet Yellen whatsoever. I think she's been doing her job," the presumptive GOP presidential nominee said in a wide-ranging phone interview with "Squawk Box."
"I don't know her. She's a very capable person. People I know have a high regard for her. But she's not a Republican," he added.
Trump argued for low rates to keep the national debt of $19 trillion somewhat manageable. Calling himself "the king of debt" in his business dealings, he warned that the national debt would be troublesome if the cost of borrowing increases.
"We're paying a very low interest rate. What happens if that interest rate goes up 2, 3, 4 points?" he asked. "We don't have a country." The U.S. should refinance longer-term debt, he added.
Private job creation slowed even further last month as firms added just 156,000 jobs in April, ADP said in a Wednesday report.
"The job market appears to have stumbled in April. Job growth noticeably slowed, with some weakness across most sectors. One month does not make a trend, but this bears close watching as the financial market turmoil earlier in the year may have done some damage to business hiring," Mark Zandi, chief economist at Moody's Analytics, said in a statement.
Economists polled by Reuters expected the number to come in at 195,000. In March, private payrolls were revised down 6,000 to 194,000.
U.S. nonfarm productivity fell in the first quarter, the second quarterly decline, and labor-related costs rose at their fastest pace since 2014 as companies hired more workers to maintain output.
The Labor Department said on Wednesday productivity, which measures hourly output per worker, declined at a 1.0 percent annual rate.
Fourth-quarter productivity was revised up to show a 1.7 percent rate of decline instead of the previously reported 2.2 percent pace. Productivity has only risen in two of the last six quarters.
Economists polled by Reuters had forecast productivity falling at a 1.4 percent rate in the first quarter. Productivity rose at a 0.6 percent rate compared to the first quarter of 2015.
The U.S. trade deficit fell more than expected in March as imports of goods tumbled to their lowest level since 2010, a potential boost to first-quarter economic growth estimates that also hints at sluggish domestic demand.
The Commerce Department said on Tuesday the trade gap fell 13.9 percent to $40.4 billion, the smallest since February 2015, also as exports fell.
February's trade deficit was revised slightly down to $46.96 billion from the previously reported $47.1 billion. Economists polled by Reuters had forecast the trade deficit falling to $41.5 billion in March. When adjusted for inflation, the deficit declined to $57.4 billion from $63.2 billion in February.
The government reported last month that trade subtracted 0.34 percentage point from first-quarter gross domestic product, helping to hold down growth to an annual rate of 0.5 percent. The smaller-than-forecast trade gap suggests that the advance GDP growth estimate could be bumped up when the government publishes its revised estimate later this month.
Investors waiting for the big second-quarter uptick in economic activity seen in recent years are likely to be disappointed, Federated Chief Equity Strategist Phil Orlando said Tuesday.
GDP growth of roughly 4 percent offset weak economic gains in each of the past two years, but those rebounds followed "brutal" winters during which business activity was muted, Orlando said.
The first part of the trend held this year: The Commerce Department's first of three readings last week showed meager 0.5 percent growth in the first quarter.
Billionaire investor Warren Buffett told CNBC on Monday just how important interest rates are to stock investing.
"If the government absolutely said interest rates are going to be zero for 50 years, the Dow would be at 100,000," Buffett told "Squawk Box," stressing he was speaking hypothetically. The Dow Jones industrial average closed at 17,773 on Friday.
In a CNBC interview last week, Buffett also spoke about interest rates. "If you had zero interest rates and you knew you were going to have them forever, stocks should sell at, you know, 100 times earnings or 200 times earnings," he said.
Consider this: Near zero percent rates from December 2008 to mid-December last year helped pushed the Dow up more than 100 percent. That happened as Wall Street was waiting for the penny to drop on a hike, which finally happened Dec. 15, 2015.
If zero rates were a certainty for 50 years, Buffett was basically saying stocks could make a move exponentially higher, when considering how far the Dow came in just seven years.
The chairman and CEO of Berkshire Hathaway was interviewed in Omaha, Nebraska, where he hosted the annual meeting of the company's shareholders on Saturday.
Gross domestic product, one of the most important economic indicators, may not be too reliable in the near term, Warren Buffett said Monday.
"I think the [quarterly] GDP figures are inherently a little more suspect in terms of being precise, than year-over-year figures," Berkshire Hathaway's chairman and CEO told CNBC's "Squawk Box."
The U.S. economy grew at a dismal 0.5 percent rate in the first quarter, the Labor Department said Thursday.
"There's one little thing that many people don't understand about the GDP figures. Maybe I don't understand it, but my understanding is they're sequential figures. You take the figures from one quarter to another and multiply by four. So, if you're off by a tenth [of a percent] on the seasonal adjustment, that becomes a four-tenths figure," Buffett said. Still, he added, "that doesn't negate the fact that business is slow. It's not negative, but it's slow."
Berkshire Hathaway Vice-Chairman Charlie Munger said Monday the U.S. is looking more like Japan given the prolonged low-interest-rate environment.
"I strongly suspect it was massively stupid for our government to rely so heavily on printing money and so lightly on fiscal stimulus and infrastructure," Munger told CNBC's "Squawk Box."
Japan has struggled mightily to come off its economic funk and, earlier this year, in an unprecedented move the Bank of Japan implemented negative interest rates.
"It surprised all the economists of the world," Munger said.
Donald Trump has taken his rhetoric about China to a new level, accusing the country of "raping" the U.S.
China's trade policy has been a frequent target of the Republican front-runner. In the past, Trump claimed the country's currency devaluation would "suck the blood out" of America.
In a veiled shot at GOP presidential front-runner Donald Trump, fellow billionaire Warren Buffett on Monday dismissed the real estate mogul's campaign slogan.
"There's no need to 'make America great again.' America is greater than it's ever been," Buffett said during a wide-ranging interview on CNBC's "Squawk Box." Buffett, a supporter of leading Democrat Hillary Clinton, said America is going to "become ever greater."
Dallas Federal Reserve President, Robert Kaplan, on Friday pledged to push for gradual increases in the U.S. benchmark interest rate, as long as inflation continues to rise and the U.S. economy remains near full employment.
The Fed, which is charged with the twin goals of maximum employment and stable inflation, this week kept interest-rate policy on hold and signaled it was in no rush to raise rates, citing slowing economic activity despite an improved labor market
Kaplan's remarks were the first from a Fed policymaker after this weeks Fed rate decision.
U.S. economic growth braked sharply to its slowest pace in two years as consumer spending softened and a strong dollar continued to undercut exports, but a pick-up in activity is anticipated given a buoyant labor market.
Gross domestic product increased at a 0.5 percent annual rate, the slowest since the first quarter of 2014, the Labor Department said on Thursday in its advance estimate, also as businesses doubled down on efforts to reduce unwanted merchandise clogging up warehouses.
The economy was also blindsided by cheap oil, which has hurt the profits of oil field companies like Schlumberger and Halliburton, resulting in business spending contracting at its fastest pace since the second quarter of 2009, when the recession was ending.
Economists polled by Reuters had forecast the economy expanding at a 0.7 percent rate in the first quarter. The economy grew at a 1.4 percent pace in the fourth quarter.
Almost all sectors of the economy weakened in the first quarter, with the housing market the lone star.
The number of Americans filing for unemployment benefits bounced back from a 42-1/2-year low last week, but the underlying trend remained consistent with tightening labor market conditions.
Initial claims for state unemployment benefits increased 9,000 to a seasonally adjusted 257,000 for the week ended April 23, the Labor Department said on Thursday.
Claims for the prior week were revised to show 1,000 more applications than previously reported.
Economists polled by Reuters had forecast claims rising to 260,000 in the latest week. Jobless claims have now been below 300,000, a threshold associated with healthy labor market conditions, for 60 weeks, the longest stretch since 1973.
U.S. economic growth likely stalled in the first quarter as domestic demand cooled and a strong dollar continued to undercut exports, but a pick-up in activity is anticipated given a buoyant labor market.
Gross domestic product probably rose at a 0.7 percent annual rate after a 1.4 percent pace in the fourth quarter, according to a Reuters survey, also as businesses stepped up efforts to reduce unwanted merchandise clogging up their warehouses.
Growth was also likely dented by cheap oil, which has hurt the profits of oil field companies like Schlumberger and Halliburton and contributed to weak business spending. The Commerce Department will publish its advance first-quarter GDP growth estimate on Thursday at 8:30 a.m. ET.
"I don't think it means the economy is in trouble," said Paul Ashworth chief U.S. economist at Capital Economics in Toronto. "Employment growth was incredibly strong in the quarter and forward-looking surveys have rebounded over the last months, suggesting the second quarter will be much stronger," said Paul Ashworth, chief U.S. economist at Capital Economics in Toronto.
Donald Trump has steamrolled his GOP opponents with blunt promises to voters on a range of issues, from walling out immigrants to cutting taxes.
But one issue stands out in his five-state primary sweep Tuesday. It's about jobs.
"I'm going to bring jobs back from China, Mexico Japan, Vietnam," Trump declared in the South Carolina GOP debate in February. "They are taking our jobs. They are taking our wealth."
With almost all the votes tallied, Trump won every one of the 107 counties in the five states electing delegates to the GOP national convention in Cleveland. And, once again, he did best in counties with the highest unemployment rates, a CNBC analysis of county-level primary voting data shows.
The victory extends Trump's pattern of big wins in counties with jobless rates higher than the national average.
Of the 172 delegates up for grabs in GOP primaries in Connecticut, Delaware, Maryland, Pennsylvania and Rhode Island, Trump walked away with 109 of them, according to NBC News. Ohio Gov. John Kasich picked up five and Texas Sen. Ted Cruz won only three.
Amid a moribund economy and reduced levels of consumer spending, the Fed on Wednesday again opted not to raise interest rates.
"Economic activity appears to have slowed," the Federal Open Market Committee said in a statement released after its two-day meeting this week. "Growth in household spending has moderated, although households' real income has risen at a solid rate and consumer sentiment remains high."
The statement highlighted the many conflicting signs in the U.S. economy – consistent job growth and an improving housing market against slowdowns in business investment and exports. Indeed, the Atlanta Fed has estimated that economic growth slowed to just 0.6 percent in the first quarter of 2016, a condition reflected in the Fed's lukewarm assessment of conditions.
The Federal Reserve left interest rates unchanged — no surprise there — moving the focus to the next Federal Open Market Committee meeting on June 14-15.
The latest FOMC statement is little changed from the last one and provides no strong clue about the likely decision at the June meeting. The next indication of Fed intentions will come with the release in three weeks of the minutes for this meeting.
This is a comparison of Wednesday's FOMC statement with the one issued after the Fed's previous policy-making meeting on March 16.
Text removed from the March statement is in red with a horizontal line through the middle.
The Federal Reserve has employment numbers on its radar as opposed to real economic growth, Bill Gross said Wednesday on CNBC's "Power Lunch."
"Goodness, this quarter, for almost the second quarter in a row, we're close to the flatline in terms of economic growth," said Gross, who leads the Unconstrained Bond Fund at Janus Capital Group. "But the jobs market seems to be doing better, and that's the one they emphasize first. As long as jobs keep going at 200,000 a month, I think the Fed is well on its way to a June hike."
Chances of a June rate hike fell as the Federal Reserve said it would leave rates unchanged following its April meeting.
Before the Fed statement, the market saw a 32 percent chance of a rate hike in June, according to traders at the CME. Following the announcement, the probability of a June rate hike fell as low as 19 percent before bouncing back slightly.
The Fed said Wednesday after its April meeting that it expects only "gradual increases in the federal funds rate" and that it is "likely to remain, for some time, below levels that are expected to prevail in the longer run."
Editor's note: Santelli Extra is a bonus segment not seen on TV featuring Rick and his guest for that day. The interviews are longer and go deeper into the topics Rick cares about.
Richard Fisher, former president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, told Rick Santelli that it's time for investors to pay the piper for the years of easy money that fueled a seven-year bull market.
"Trees don't grow to the sky ... at some point, you have to pay that back," said Fisher. "The question is who has the bravery to at least initiate what is more normal monetary policy so we don't have this misallocation of assets."
Watch the full interview below.
The latest CNBC Fed Survey shows Wall Street anticipating a more dovish Fed in April than it did back in March, with the next rate hike not expected until much later this year.
Fully 100 percent of the 48 respondents to the survey, including economists, strategists and fund managers, are sure the Fed won't hike at its meeting this week. But 94 percent say the next move will be to hike rates. The next hike, on average, isn't expected until August, two months later than anticipated in the previous survey. And respondents don't see rates taking off after that. They lowered their funds rate forecast for 2016 to just 0.78 percent, compared with the current target of 0.38 percent. The rate is seen remaining low in 2017 at just 1.4 percent, 17 basis points less than forecast in the March survey.
"The Fed should be cautious until the 2 percent price stability target clearly is in sight,'' Allen Sinai, chief global economist of Decision Economics, wrote in response to the survey.
The U.S. goods trade deficit narrowed sharply in March as imports tumbled, suggesting economic growth in the first-quarter was probably not as weak as currently anticipated.
The Commerce Department said in its advance report on Wednesday that the goods trade gap fell to $56.90 billion last month from $63.44 billion in February.
March's comprehensive trade report, which includes services, will be released next Wednesday.
Goods imports fell 4.4 percent to $173.6 million last month, outpacing a 1.2 percent drop in exports.
Orders for long-lasting U.S. manufactured goods rebounded less than expected in March as demand for automobiles, computers and electrical goods slumped, suggesting the downturn in the factory sector was far from over.
The Commerce Department said on Tuesday that orders for durable goods, items ranging from toasters to aircraft meant to last three years or more, increased 0.8 percent last month after a downwardly revised 3.1 percent decline in February.
Orders for durable goods were previously reported to have dropped 3.0 percent in February.
Non-defense capital goods orders excluding aircraft, a closely watched proxy for business spending plans, were unchanged after a downwardly revised 2.7 percent decline in the prior month. These so-called core capital goods orders were previously reported to have decreased 2.5 percent in February.
Home prices in 20 U.S. metropolitan cities continued to rise in February, though gains are moderating in a number of urban areas, according to S&P Dow Jones Indices.
The S&P/Case-Shiller 20-City Composite Home Price Index rose 5.4 percent in February, just below expectations for a 5.5 percent increase among analysts.
"Home prices continue to rise twice as fast as inflation, but the pace is easing off in the most recent numbers," David M. Blitzer, chairman of the Index Committee at S&P Dow Jones Indices, said in a statement. "The year-over-year figures for the 10-city and 20-city composites both slowed, and 13 of the 20 cities saw slower year-over-year numbers compared to last month."
Federal Reserve  Chair Janet Yellen  will likely strike a dovish tone on interest rates against a backdrop of middling economic growth and slowly rising inflation, Ameriprise Financial Chief Market Strategist David Joy said Tuesday.
The Fed's policymaking committee kicks off a two-day meeting Tuesday. Wall Street is not expecting the central bank to raise rates, but investors will be listening for clues about the path of future rate hikes during Yellen's press conference at the close of the meeting on Wednesday.
Markets rallied last month after Yellen said the Fed would "proceed cautiously in adjusting policy" in remarks to the Economic Club of New York. The Fed raised benchmark rates by a quarter of a percent in December.
"She indicated more or less the possibility of two rate increases. We think that that's still a realistic possibility," Joy told CNBC's "Squawk Box."  "Probably one is more likely between now and the end of the year, but I think they're going to leave it exactly where she indicated."
The Federal Reserve is having a tough time justifying future rate hikes, Quincy Krosby, market strategist at Prudential Financial, said Monday.
"The Fed is caught between a rock and a hard place. They think they want to raise rates, but the economic data here in America is not doing well," Krosby told CNBC's "Squawk on the Street."
The U.S. central bank is scheduled to kick off its second policymaking meeting of 2016 on Tuesday, with several economists and experts expecting interest rates to stay unchanged.
In fact, the market is not expecting the first rate hike until September, according to the CME Group's FedWatch tool.
The tax and spending plans put forward by the five remaining presidential candidates don't add up, former U.S. Comptroller General David Walker said Monday.
Walker noted that Democrats Hillary Clinton and Sen. Bernie Sanders would mostly build on the current tax system, while Republicans would comprehensively reform it, either by imposing a flat tax or broadening the base and reducing the top marginal rate.
The problem is the spending side, said Walker, who worked under presidents Bill Clinton and George W. Bush and is now a strategic advisor at PricewaterhouseCoopers.
"That's where we have a problem, OK? Because nobody's numbers add up, or come close to adding up," he told CNBC's "Squawk Box."
U.S. Federal Reserve policymakers are expected to hold interest rates steady when they meet this week, but may tweak their description of the economic outlook to reflect more benign conditions, leaving the path open for future rate rises.
The Fed raised its policy interest rate last December for the first time in a decade when market volatility finally subsided in the wake of a scare over China's economy.
Similarly early this year markets wobbled on worries about a slowdown in global economic growth and weak U.S. corporate earnings, leading to expectations for further Fed rates rises to be revised down, so Fed policymakers may be wary of this week sending too strong a message of an imminent policy tightening.
Europe and Japan's central bank policies of negative interest rates are a "horror" and will run counter to the desired effect, Jeffrey Gundlach, the widely followed investor who runs DoubleLine Capital, said in an interview with a Swiss newspaper.
Gundlach, who oversees $95 billion for Los Angeles-based DoubleLine, said negative rates would not help fight deflation but withdraw liquidity from the market because people would rather hoard cash than invest or deposit it in a bank account.
The number of Americans filing for unemployment benefits unexpectedly fell last week, hitting its lowest level since 1973, suggesting the labor market continued to gain momentum despite weak economic growth.
Initial claims for state unemployment benefits declined 6,000 to a seasonally adjusted 247,000 for the week ended April 16, the lowest reading since November 1973, the Labor Department said on Thursday.
Claims for the prior week were unrevised.
Economists polled by Reuters had forecast claims rising to 263,000 in the latest week. Jobless claims have now been below 300,000, a threshold associated with healthy labor market conditions, for 59 weeks, the longest stretch since 1973.
The labor market is strengthening despite signs that economic growth braked sharply in the first quarter.
A measure of future economic conditions was slightly higher last month as stock markets and manufacturing steadied, according to a new report.
The Leading Economic Index rose 0.2 percent in March to 123.4, The Conference Board said Thursday.  Analysts expected the Leading Economic Index to rise 0.4 percent in March after a 0.1 percent decline in February, and a 0.2 percent decline in January.
The Philadelphia Federal Reserve's business index for April came in much worse than expected, the bank said Thursday.
The index sank to -1.6 from 12.4 in March, well below the expected reading of 10.0.
A reading on business inventories sank to -20.5 from -12.7 in March.
Remember last year when China devalued its currency and the market went nuts? Well, so much for that.
The subsequent tightening in financial conditions that came with the bold currency move has vanished, according to Goldman Sachs. The bank said its proprietary Financial Conditions Index has returned to its August 2015 level, providing a bright spot in an economy that otherwise has been lackluster.
"Each of the key components (in the index) — long rates, the dollar, equity prices and credit spreads — has retraced most or all of its prior deterioration," Goldman economists Jan Hatzius and Chris Mischaikow said in a note to clients. "The implications for U.S. growth are quite positive."
At a time when markets have been prone to quick shifts, banking on a longer-term prospects is risky. Goldman, though, sees reason for optimism.
"We think financial conditions have turned from a significant downside risk to our growth forecast in early 2016 to a moderate upside risk at present," Hatzius and Mischaikow said.
The Federal Reserve is set to hike interest rates more rapidly than investors currently expect, a top Fed official said on Monday, again pushing back on what he said was investors' too pessimistic view of the U.S. economy and monetary policy.
It was the second time in as many weeks that Boston Fed President Eric Rosengren warned that futures markets, which see only one modest rate hike in each of the next few years, are off the mark. He said U.S. inflation was now "much closer" to the Fed's goal, downplayed weak growth in the first quarter, and said the economy is "fundamentally sound."
The comments suggest that even the Fed's dovish wing is uncomfortable with deep skepticism in markets that the central bank will be able pull off its planned tightening cycle, in the face of an overseas slowdown and paltry global demand.
U.S. housing starts fell more than expected in March and permits for future home construction hit a one-year low, suggesting some cooling in the housing market in line with signs of a sharp slowdown in economic growth in the first quarter.
Groundbreaking decreased 8.8 percent to a seasonally adjusted annual pace of 1.09 million units, the lowest level since October, the Commerce Department said on Tuesday. February's starts were revised up to a 1.19 million-unit rate from the previously reported 1.18 million-unit pace.
Economists polled by Reuters had forecast housing starts slipping to a 1.17 million-unit pace last month.
Federal Reserve  Bank of New York President William Dudley said that the Fed will remain careful in raising interest rates.
"Monetary policy adjustments are likely to be gradual and cautious, as we continue to face significant uncertainties and the headwinds to growth from the financial crisis have not fully abated," Dudley said at the New York Fed Conference on Monday, according to Dow Jones.
Add one more signal that the U.S. economy is slowing down.
Sales and profits are falling at more of America's biggest companies, according to the latest quarterly survey of a group of business economists.
The share of those reporting stronger sales dropped to the lowest level in seven years, according to the National Association for Business Economics. And, for only the second time since the end of the Great Recession, more respondents said profits were falling than those who said profits were rising at their companies.
The group also reported that the pace of hiring has slowed in the last three months. The number of economists who said their companies were adding jobs fell to the lowest level in two years. And fewer said they expect their companies to raise wages in the next three months.
U.S. home builders' confidence held steady in April, reflecting an overall optimistic outlook in the market for new homes even as a gauge of current sales fell slightly.
The National Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo builder sentiment index released Monday was unchanged at 58. It hasn't budged in three months.
Readings above 50 indicate more builders view sales conditions as good, rather than poor. The index had been in the low 60s for eight months until February.
Builders' outlook for sales over the next six months and a measure of traffic by prospective buyers edged higher, but builders' view of current sales conditions fell.
The U.S. housing market looks more tempered after strong growth in 2015, with sales in the first two months of 2016 running below last year's pace.
The longer negative interest rates persist, the greater the damage to the world financial system, Allianz Chief Economic Adviser Mohamed El-Erian said Monday.
With "low and even" world growth, "you're going to see central banks, particularly in Japan and Europe, try to do even more to boost their economies, said El-Erian. "The system isn't build to operate with negative nominal rates."
Negative rates prevent services such as insurance companies and pensions to get the yields they need to thrive, not to mention the chilling effect negative rates have on savers, he said on CNBC's "Squawk Box."
"We're going to have an impaired financial system," he said. "It means fewer long-term financial services that are credible for society."
El-Erian also cited a high political risk to negative rates: "That's something people can identify with. It looks absurd. What do you mean, I'm going to lend to my money and I'm going to pay you interest? Give me a break."
Leaders in Japan and Europe need to get their fiscal houses in order to take pressure off central banks, he said.
"Central banks are like doctors, they never walk away from the patient," El-Erian said. "Even though they haven't got the right medicine, they will continue prescribing."
Besides the economy, another major theme at the spring meetings of the International Monetary Fund and World Bank this weekend was the concern about wildcards like the June vote in the U.K. on whether Britain should leave the European Union trading block.
Citigroup on Monday downgraded its outlook for the U.S. economy for 2016-2017, saying "the risks are very evident."
William Lee, head of North America economics at Citigroup, said in a research note: "Our outlook has little potential to be surprised on the upside, but the risks are very evident on the downside."
"Recently revised and incoming data imply GDP will grow by 0.9 percent in (the first quarter) and 1.7 percent for the year," the report noted.
"Despite such tepid growth prospects, we project a slow decline in the unemployment rate to 4.7 percent by end-2016, and 4.5 percent by end-2017." He also said inflation is projected to remain subdued. The Fed has targeted a 2 percent inflation rate as one criterion for raising interest rates.
Lee said the downgrade reflected "increased evidence of the dampening effects from looming uncertainty," most notably the Federal Reserve's  decision to slow plans for interest rate normalization to two increases this year.
He added: "We continue to believe there will be only one rate increase this year — likely in September, unless developments stir financial markets and/or dampen further growth prospects. In that event, December or a later meeting would be a more likely date for an increase."
Consumers are feeling less optimistic than expected so far this month as job prospects and the upcoming election weighed, according to preliminary data released Friday.
The Index of Consumer sentiment hit 89.7 in April, according to the University of Michigan. Analysts expected the consumer sentiment index to hit 92 in April, up from March's final reading of 91, according to Thomson Reuters consensus estimates.
It marks the fourth consecutive monthly decline, the report said.
U.S. industrial production fell more than expected in March as output declined broadly, the latest indication that economic growth braked sharply in the first quarter.
Industrial output decreased 0.6 percent last month after a downwardly revised 0.6 percent drop in February, the Federal Reserve said on Friday. Industrial production has declined in six of the last seven months.
Economists polled by Reuters had forecast industrial production slipping 0.1 percent last month after a previously reported 0.5 percent drop in February.
Industrial production fell at an annual rate of 2.2 percent in the first quarter. The report joined data on retail sales, business spending, trade and wholesale inventories in suggesting that economic growth slowed to crawl at the turn of the year.
Manufacturing activity in New York state unexpectedly surged in April, a New York Federal Reserve survey showed on Friday.
Factory activity in New York expanded in April at the fastest pace in more than a year, a sign manufacturing may be picking up after a tough 2015.
The New York Federal Reserve's Empire State manufacturing index jumped to 9.56 in April from 0.62 in the previous month. It was only the second positive reading since July. Any reading above zero indicates growth.
Economists polled by Reuters had expected the index to rise to 2.21 in the month. A reading above zero indicates expansion.
While the chances had been low, traders now believe there is absolutely no possibility of a Fed rate hike in April.
The probability went to zero Thursday morning after two days' worth of data showed that the economy is still well shy of the central bank's inflation target. The reading comes from the CME's FedWatch tool, which tracks the price of monthly fed fund futures contracts then uses a formula to determine the chances the market is assigning to a Fed move. The current April futures contract implies a funds rate of 0.36 percent, which is actually one basis point below the current level.
Inflation is central to the Fed's thinking and has been elusive even as the economy nears full employment.
Core consumer price index data Thursday indicated just a 0.1 percent monthly growth, with a similar reading excluding volatile food and energy prices. The producer prices index, released Wednesday, also showed a gain of just 0.1 percent.
New technology and regulation in fixed income markets have made it harder to gauge levels of liquidity for Treasuries and corporate debt, and have brought new investment risks, U.S. Federal Reserve Governor Jerome Powell said on Thursday.
In recent years markets have contended with a series of revolutions in borrowing, market structure and federal regulations enacted after the 2008 financial crisis.
These developments have fueled concerns that liquidity is drying up across fixed-income markets, Powell said in testimony before a United States Senate panel adding "although many recent studies have found it difficult to identify such a broad reduction."
"It may be that liquidity has deteriorated only in certain market segments," he said in remarks before the economic policy subcommittee of the Senate's banking committee.
"It may also be that, even if liquidity is adequate in normal conditions, it has become more fragile, or prone to disappearing under stress," he said.
U.S. consumer prices rose less than expected in March and underlying inflation slowed, suggesting the Federal Reserve will remain cautious about raising interest rates this year.
The Labor Department said on Thursday its Consumer Price Index gained 0.1 percent last month as a rebound in gasoline prices was partly offset by a drop in the cost of food. There were also slowdowns in medical care and housing costs.
The CPI fell 0.2 percent in February. In the 12 months through March, the CPI increased 0.9 percent after advancing 1.0 percent in February.
Economists polled by Reuters had forecast the CPI gaining 0.2 percent last month and rising 1.1 percent from a year ago.
The number of Americans filing for unemployment benefits unexpectedly fell last week, revisiting a level last seen in 1973 as the labor market continues to strengthen despite a sluggish economy.
Initial claims for state unemployment benefits decreased 13,000 to a seasonally adjusted 253,000 for the week ended April 9, the Labor Department said on Thursday. That matched the level for early March, which was the lowest since November 1973.
Claims for the week ending April 2 were revised to show 1,000 fewer applications received than previously reported.
Those hoping that Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen will turn hawkish soon are likely to be disappointed.
In an interview with Time magazine, Yellen said that the Fed is unlikely to make any sudden or aggressive moves, given the lingering uncertainty in current global economic conditions.
"In such an environment, it makes sense to use a risk-management approach to identify and avoid the big mistakes," she told Time. "That's one reason I favor a cautious approach."
Negative interest rates and other unconventional monetary policies do not fuel political populism, a top economist at the International Monetary Fund (IMF) told CNBC, hitting back at claims they are boosting right-wing populism in Germany.
Jose Vinals, the director of monetary and capital markets at the IMF, spoke to CNBC on Wednesday, following comments from the German finance minister that the European Central Bank (ECB)'s monetary policy was encouraging the rise of the Alternative for Germany (AfD) party in Germany.
"Negative interest rates, like the other stimulus policies of the European Central Bank, are helping the European economy and politicians should be telling this message to the population," Vinals told CNBC.
"I think populism is fueled by other things and to me, one of the key sources of populism has to do with the lack of economic recovery that we have, which is not strong enough, and also with non-economic factors, which have to do with the attitudes of certain parts of the population vis-à-vis tourism or refugees," he added separately.
U.S. retail sales unexpectedly fell in March as households cut back on purchases of automobiles, further evidence that economic growth stumbled in the first quarter.
The Commerce Department said on Wednesday that retail sales declined 0.3 percent last month after being unchanged in February. Economists polled by Reuters had forecast retail sales edging up 0.1 percent last month.
Retail sales excluding automobiles, gasoline, building materials and food services ticked up 0.1 percent last month after an upwardly revised 0.1 percent gain in February.
These so-called core retail sales correspond most closely with the consumer spending component of gross domestic product. Economists had forecast core retail sales rising 0.3 percent last month.
U.S. producer prices unexpectedly fell in March as rising energy prices were offset by a decline in the cost of services, pointing to tame inflation that supports the Federal Reserve's cautious approach to raising interest rates.
The Labor Department said on Wednesday its producer price index slipped 0.1 percent last month after dropping 0.2 percent in February. In the 12 months through March, the PPI dipped 0.1 percent after being unchanged in February.
Economists polled by Reuters had forecast the PPI advancing 0.2 percent last month and gaining 0.3 percent from a year ago.
Oil prices plunged below $44 a barrel overnight in a matter of minutes, putting the market on edge as futures tested yet another key technical level. Traders blamed forced margin calls and computer trading for the so-called flash crash but were not quite sure what caused the drop.
At about 11:17 p.m. ET, U.S. West Texas Intermediate crude was trading at $45.36. By 11:31 p.m. ET, it had plunged 3 percent to a low of $43.76,  the lowest price since Nov. 15. Futures then rebounded slightly back above $44 and stayed there for awhile until rallying back above $45 by 4 a.m. ET.
U.S. West Texas Intermediate crude futures 2-day performance

The flash crash was frightening to traders who bet on higher oil prices, "but it looks to be anomalous even in a market that is technically very weak and searching for strong fundamentals," said Tom Kloza, global head of energy analysis at Oil Price Information Service.
"So for now, it looks to be more of a brief nightmare than a template for the next couple of days," he told CNBC in an email.
Futures have plunged through a number of key levels this week.  The sudden drop brought it within striking distance of another "major support zone" at $42.70, which Seaport Global Securities flagged on Thursday.
A close below $44 a barrel could trigger technical targets in the neighborhood of $40.50 a barrel, Kloza said.
John Kilduff, founding partner at energy hedge fund Again Capital, said the overnight plunge looks like forced margin-call selling. Kilduff added that he would not be surprised to hear that a hedge fund "blew up," meaning it was forced to sell its positions.
International benchmark Brent crude also extended losses overnight, dropping to $46.64 a barrel after breaking below $50 on Thursday for the first time in six weeks.
A daily morning look at the financial stories you need to know to start the day.

STOCKS/ECONOMY
-Stock futures are mixed after Thursday's mixed close and ahead of this morning's April jobs report where 185,000 net new jobs are expected to have been gained.
OIL/ENERGY
-U.S. crude oil is flat and still at the 5-month low of $45 a barrel level after Thursday's steep losses.
WHALE WATCHING
-Warren Buffett says he's sold about a third of his IBM stock because he no longer has as much confidence in the company. But Buffett is still very confident in Apple and is brushing off its iPhone sales dip.
Check out which companies are making headlines before the bell:
International Business Machines — Berkshire Hathaway's Warren Buffett told CNBC that he has sold about a third of his IBM holdings. Buffett said IBM did not perform the way he had expected when he bought the stock six years ago.
VWR — The life sciences company agreed to be bought by privately held Avantor for $33.25 per share in cash, or $6.4 billion. The price is below Thursday's close, but the stock had spiked earlier in the week when reports of the talks first surfaced.
Cigna — The health insurer reported adjusted quarterly profit of $2.77 per share, compared to estimates of $2.45 a share. Revenue also beat forecasts and Cigna raised its full-year forecast, as well. Its results were helped by customer additions in its commercial insurance business.
Moody's — The credit rating agency came in 23 cents a share above estimates, earning an adjusted $1.47 per share for its latest quarter. Revenue beat by a wide margin, as well. Moody's benefited from an increase in bond issuance during the quarter.
Avon Products — Activist investor Barrington Capital is calling on the cosmetics company to fire CEO Sheri McCoy, following a surprise quarterly loss for the company. Barrington and Avon had agreed to a settlement last year which shook up the company's board of directors.
CBS — CBS beats estimates by nine cents a share, with adjusted quarterly profit of $1.04 per share. Revenue beat Street forecasts, as well, boosted by content licensing and subscription fees.
Shake Shack — Shake Shack came in two cents a share above estimates, with adjusted quarterly profit of 10 cents per share. Revenue was also above consensus, however comparable-restaurant sales fell 2.5 percent and the company also gave lower-than-expected revenue guidance.
Zillow — Zillow reported adjusted quarterly profit of 11 cents per share, six cents a share above estimates. Revenue also scored a beat. The real estate website operator raised its full-year revenue guidance, but is predicting a wider loss than analysts were anticipating.
Herbalife — Herbalife surpassed consensus estimates by 35 cents a share, with adjusted quarterly profit of $1.24 per share. Revenue was slightly above forecasts. The nutritional products maker also raised its full-year earnings guidance above current consensus.
Zynga — Zynga shares are getting a pre-market boost after forecasting current-quarter bookings above forecasts. The online gaming company's results are being helped by strong performances by games such as Words With Friends.
Syngenta — Syngenta shareholders have tendered enough shares to clinch ChemChina's deal to buy the agricultural chemical maker for $43 billion. The deal is scheduled to close on May 18.
Johnson & Johnson — J&J was ordered by a jury to pay $110 million in a case involving its talc-based feminine hygiene products. The payment will go to a Virginia woman who told the court she developed ovarian cancer after using the products for several decades.
Facebook — Facebook's Oculus unit is shutting down its film studio in order to focus on supporting external virtual reality content producers.
Activision Blizzard — Activision reported adjusted quarterly profit of 31 cents per share, 10 cents a share above estimates. The video game maker's revenue also topped forecasts. The company is seeing strong results for its "Overwatch" game and said anticipation among fans is high for debuts of new versions of "Call of Duty" and "Destiny" later this year. Activision did give a full-year forecast that fell below consensus estimates.
LendingClub — LendingClub lost two cents per share for its latest quarter, one cent a share smaller than expected. Revenue topped forecasts. The lender raised its revenue forecast for the full year, but also reported higher expenses and a drop in loan originations.
Billionaire Warren Buffett told CNBC he's unfazed by the weak economic growth recorded in the first quarter, saying his view of the recovering U.S. economy remains the same.
"I'm a broken record on this subject but since the fall of 2009, literally, it's been about 2 percent a year," Buffett said from Omaha, Nebraska, in an interview that aired Friday on "Squawk Box."
"I don't think the figures are necessarily accurate when you get to tenths and all of that," he said, referring to the government's estimate a week ago that gross domestic product grew at just an annual rate of 0.7 percent in the first three months of 2017.
As chairman and CEO of Berkshire Hathaway, Buffett gets a broad view of the economy through the businesses that Berkshire owns — from furniture to insurance to food to real estate to railroads.
The recovery from the Great Recession has been "very steady," Buffett said. "Autos are falling off a little now, but housing is good, and most of our businesses are doing a little better."
Buffett said he would not be surprised to see first-quarter growth revised higher. "It's not perfect reporting," he added. "Now what I see isn't perfect either obviously."
GDP in the first quarter has a history of being routinely understated, according to a 2015 CNBC review of decades of data.
The economy grew 1.6 percent for all of 2016, its worst performance since 2011, after expanding 2.6 percent in 2015.
Despite weakness in commodities and commodity stocks, particularly oil, the broader stock market remains just below historic highs. There is an underlying bid to the markets.
There's a good reason for that underlying bid: the global economy is improving, and we are starting to see that in earnings. It's not just in the U.S. — even Europe is seeing an improved earnings picture.
Strategists and analysts have begun taking note. Keith Lerner, Chief Market Strategist at SunTrust Advisory Services, summed it up yesterday in a note to clients: "[W]e are seeing the most broad-based global earnings rebound since 2011."
He noted that International markets "are turning higher on better economic growth, policy support, and more competitive currencies." The percentage of countries that have seen their forward earnings estimates rise over the past three months is at its highest levels since 2009. Earnings growth is evident in both developed and emerging markets.
In the U.S., he notes, the percentage of companies exceeding sales estimates is at the highest level in almost six years. Cyclical sectors — those that benefit from an improving economy — are generally leading in terms of exceeding consensus earnings estimates.
The global rise in the stock market is not surprising: earnings are highly correlated with stock market returns. When the S&P 500 went through five quarters of earnings decline, what I termed the "earnings recession," from late 2014 to the summer of 2016, the stock market went nowhere.
But Lerner noted earnings started turning up in late summer of last year, and that's when stocks turned around (this was before the presidential election).
Moreover, the earnings trend is positive. The S&P 500 quarterly earnings for the first quarter, now at 14%, is the best in six years. Moreover, the percentate of companies beating estimates, at 76%, is well above the historical average of roughly 62%.
And it's not just buybacks that are boosting earnings: revenue growth is strong, too, up 7.2%
What about the second, third, and fourth quarter guidance? Lerner notes that about half of the S&P 500 companies have seen their earnings estimates raised by analysts, the highest level since 2015.
What could derail this earnings express? The recent weakness in oil is causing a modest (so far) downward revision in big oil estimates but is not derailing the broader market. Some kind of geopolitical shock, of course, could affect markets (North Korea is the current big threat). A major miscalculation by the Fed (raising rates too fast) might also slow the markets. And we know there is some premium in the markets for tax reform and infrastructure that might be taken out if they failed to pass something this year.
Of course, the traditional killer of earnings growth — and stock market rallies — is a recession. But Lerner and most other strategist see the chances of that happening as unlikely, at least in the intermediate term.
Recession risks are still low, Lerner said, "and we expect profits to continue to rise."
Bloated global crude oil inventories are declining but not as quickly as OPEC expected, adding to pressure on the producer group to extend supply cuts, according to a CNBC poll of energy strategists, traders and economists.
Oil markets are questioning whether OPEC's current phase of production cuts totaling 1.2 million barrels a day–agreed in November, effective from January and the first since 2008–are enough to re-balance the market when U.S. producers are aggressively increasing supply and U.S. inventories remain stubbornly above five-year highs.
Producers outside the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries including Russia pledged to cut around 600,000 barrels a day.
"OPEC producers have under-estimated the volumes to be taken off the market," said Victor Shum, vice president at IHS Energy.
"The drawdown in the U.S. inventories is not going to be fast and furious. Ultimately, the objective is to support prices. Gulf producers need money to balance the budget. That's a strong incentive to cut more than they have."
After Tesla's stock sank over $15 on Thursday following its earnings report, Jim Cramer looked into the company to try and understand its high-flown forecasts.
"If you're an analyst, I think the only way to handle an Elon Musk conference call is to take some mind altering drugs so you can really tune in and turn on the whole psychedelic story," the "Mad Money" host said of Tesla's CEO.
While Cramer admires Musk's confidence, he sympathized with those who try to make mathematical sense of his ultra-positive musings.
Watch the full segment here:
Though brick-and-mortar retail has come under pressure of late, Jim Cramer found one related stock that could be making a comeback: Alliance Data Systems.
Alliance Data deals in private label credit cards, rewards programs, and transaction-based marketing solutions. After the stock peaked in 2015, it tumbled down 43 percent and fell as low as $177 from its $312 highs in the February of last year.
But the "Mad Money" host noticed the company making a turnaround, re-positioning itself as more of a data-driven marketing play and cutting costs across the board.
"While you might think a business that relies on retailers would be in trouble here, the company has had a lot of success expanding into all sorts of digital channels, and that's where the consumers are spending their money these days," Cramer said.
And for the first time in over a year, Cramer feels like the company has finally gotten its act together, making moves to buy back large chunks of stock and placing itself squarely in the data and analytics space.
"I think this widely misunderstood stock could have a lot more, not a little, but a lot more upside," Cramer said.
When the Federal Reserve does not waver on its two slated interest rate hikes and the market holds its breath ahead of Friday's jobs report, Jim Cramer said it sets off a series of events that investors need to understand.
"It all does start with commodities, which were weak across the board. Copper's teetering, aluminum's headed down, iron's– oh, man, get out of the way, and of course, oil's simply crashing, down 5 percent today, the worst day in months" the "Mad Money" host said.
All of these changes signal a rotation into stocks that people consider safe during a market decline, like consumer packaged goods, Cramer said.
At the same time, rates and bank stocks are climbing thanks to the Fed standing firm on its two-hike agenda, so the "Mad Money" host turned to the latest market moves to make sense of the noise.
Watch the full segment here:
L Brands is proving brick-and-mortar retail is a tough business to be in today.
After another weak monthly sales report, there is growing concern about L Brands' ability to turn around its Victoria's Secret business, which has been struggling since it eliminated swim wear and apparel.
"The only thing that matters here is mounting evidence the VS monopoly is losing share every single day," Jefferies analyst Randal Konik wrote in a note to clients Thursday. "Core lingerie remains down and PINK growth is slowing which means share losses are accelerating."
L Brands said its exit of the swim and apparel categories had reduced total company sales by 6 percentage points, and Victoria's Secret same-store sales by 10 percentage points this period.
CEO Les Wexner's decision to discontinue Victoria's Secret's swim line has eliminated roughly $500 million in annual sales from the business.
The company decided to exit these categories largely so it could focus on more profitable segments and push harder into lower-priced sports bras and unstructured bralettes. Those items are currently popular with younger consumers who have been flocking to rivals like Aerie, an intimates label owned by American Eagle. But the bet has yet to pay off.
Company-wide, L Brands' net sales fell 2 percent, to $719.6 million, for the four weeks ended April 29, versus net sales of $737.5 million for the period a year ago. Comparable sales — a metric closely monitored for retail stocks — also dropped 5 percent, the company said.
Shares of L Brands closed down nearly 7 percent on Thursday, below the $50 mark.
In addition to the shifting strategy at Victoria's Secret, the company is also being hurt by smaller crowds at the malls — a trend that is expected to continue as more shopping shifts online.
Another L Brands-owned company, Bath & Body Works, reported comparable sales growth of 10 percent for the latest period, but it will likely see increasing pressure as foot traffic in malls weakens, Konik said.
The Jefferies analyst predicts L Brands' earnings will be down for the next three years based on the continued weaker performance from its businesses.
With Thursday's declines pushing L Brands shares further into red territory, the stock is down more than 38 percent over the past 12 months and about 25 percent this year.
The world's largest brewer, Anheuser-Busch InBev, reported better-than-expected profit growth on Thursday, citing signs of a turnaround in recession-racked Brazil, its second-biggest market, which has struggled to grow alcoholic beverage sales.
Its U.S. share prices closed up more than 5 percent on Thursday.
Beer volumes picked up in Brazil from January to March, according to the brewer, which operates such brands as Budweiser, Stella Artois and Corona.
"We remain cautiously optimistic on Brazil overall," Chief Financial Officer Felipe Dutra said on the earnings conference call. "We expect 2017 to be better industry-wise than 2016."
AB InBev said overall first-quarter core profit rose 5.8 percent on a like-for-like basis, excluding currency fluctuations and the impact of a merger last year with SABMiller. This is above the 3.3 percent that was predicted in a company-compiled poll.
AB InBev also reported further cost savings of $252 million during the period, following its $100 billion acquisition with SABMiller.
For the first quarter, in the U.S. AB InBev reported lower sales volumes as Bud Light and Budweiser lost market share, but profit margins increased due to heightened consumption of higher-priced Michelob Ultra, Stella Artois and craft beers, the company said.
Volumes and earnings increased in Mexico, which was coupled with better news of growing margins in South Africa — one of AB InBev's new markets — higher earnings in Europe, and a strong start to 2017 in China.
"We think a variety of factors ... imply further revenue acceleration and increasing rates of margin expansion as the year progresses," Stifel Nicolaus analyst Mark Swartzberg wrote in a note to clients Thursday. Some of these factors include U.S. beer trends heading into peak summer season, large new markets for accelerating global brands and macro trends in Brazil, Swartzberg said.
Looking ahead to summer, AB InBev CEO Carols Brito told analysts and investors on Thursday's earnings call that the company will bring back its "America" media campaign and packaging for Memorial Day and Labor Day, "building on the success of last year."
With Thursday's gains, shares of AB InBev are up 13 percent this year but are down nearly 3 percent over the past 12 months.
President Donald Trump should give Apple's Tim Cook a call after the CEO announced the company would start a $1 billion fund to promote advanced manufacturing jobs in the U.S., CNBC's Jim Cramer said Thursday.
Cook announced the fund in an exclusive interview Wednesday with Cramer on CNBC's "Mad Money." Cook said Apple will announce the first investment later this month.
The fund is the tech giant's latest effort to show how it is creating jobs in the United States. Trump has vowed to bring millions of jobs back to the country, and has pressured several American companies to hire U.S. workers.
Cook said in the interview that Apple has created 2 million jobs in the U.S., and said the company would hire thousands of employees in the future. (Read the full interview here.)
In response to Cook's interview, the White House said in a statement: "The president's policies have created an environment and provided the confidence in the economy needed to foster such investments as Apple is making."
Cook also spoke about the company's massive 1.1-million-square-foot campus in Austin, Texas. The project began in 2012.
"I think they could build a lot here," Cramer said Thursday on "Squawk Box." He said the president should call Cook on Thursday.
Disclosure: Jim Cramer's charitable trust owns shares of Apple.
Also watch: Exclusive: Apple just promised to give US manufacturing a $1 billion boost
Bitcoin surged further into all-time high territory Thursday as investors bet the digital currency will gain even greater acceptance globally as a store of value and an investment vehicle.
At one point, bitcoin rose more than 5 percent to a record $1,568.59 before retreating slightly, according to CoinDesk. Data from TradeBlock showed some other exchanges had bitcoin above $1,600.
New interest in the currency out of Japan was the cause of the latest short-term upward move, traders said.
"Bitcoin can be thought of as digital gold," said Brian Kelly, founder of BKCM LLC and manager of a digital assets hedge fund. "The upside for bitcoin is so much higher than upside for gold, in my view."
Gold futures for June delivery fell to $1,225.70 an ounce on the New York Mercantile Exchange, its lowest level since March 17. The precious metal had topped $1,500 for about two years, even running above $1,800 at one point, but since early 2013 has not been able to recover back to the $1,500 level.
Bitcoin 12-month performance

Source: CoinDesk
Over the last two weeks, bitcoin has climbed about 25 percent into record territory on increased investor interest. The cryptocurrency  got a boost last week from news that the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission said it plans to review its listing rejection for what would have been the first U.S. exchange-traded fund that tracks bitcoin.
Since the April 24 filing, the digital, currency has only once traded lower on the day, according to CoinDesk.
"Right now it's speculation over the ETF. That's been the biggest thing," said Kelly, a CNBC contributor who launched the digital assets fund for outside investors this year.
Gold 12-month performance

Source: FactSet
Increased interest from Japanese investors has also contributed to bitcoin's gains. More than 10 Japanese companies are launching digital currency exchanges given increased legal recognition of the currencies and a scheduled elimination of a tax on digital currency purchases, the  Nikkei Asian Review reported Tuesday.
Bitcoin plunged more than 25 percent from record levels last month after the SEC denied the listing of the Winklevoss Bitcoin ETF, and subsequently the SolidX Bitcoin Trust exchange-traded product. A heated debate among bitcoin users about the technological future of the currency also hit prices.


Technology stocks could see a 15 percent correction in a few months, one fund manager told CNBC on Thursday, adding that he is selling shares of Apple, Alphabet, and Microsoft because they are "fully priced".
Patrick Armstrong, chief investment officer at Plurimi, said that the companies have reached their "full valuations".
"I feel sad, but I'm selling all my big cap tech companies. For years and years, I've been coming on talking about Apple's cheap, Alphabet's cheap, Microsoft's cheap, and they're above market multiples now. We have been reducing them into the rally for the past few weeks and they are getting fully priced in my opinion," Armstrong told CNBC.
The fund manager said that he will likely own the stocks that he sold again by the summer after a 10 to 15 percent correction takes place. The reason, Armstrong believes this will happen, is because, on a Schiller-adjusted price to earnings ratio, the S&P 500 is trading at 29.3 times. The mean for the S&P 500 is 16.7.
Check out which companies are making headlines before the bell:
Facebook — The social media giant reported quarterly profit of $1.04 per share, 17 cents a share above estimates. Revenue also beat forecasts. Facebook's results were helped by growth in its mobile ad business and an 18 percent jump in daily active users. Shares dipped in after-hours trading, however, as the company warned about slowing ad growth for the rest of the year.
Tesla — Tesla lost $1.33 per share for its latest quarter, compared to consensus estimates of an 81 cent a share loss. The automaker's revenue did beat forecasts that more than doubled from a year earlier, as it delivered record numbers of its Model X and Model S vehicles.
AmerisourceBergen — The drug distributor beat estimates by nine cents a share, with adjusted quarterly profit of $1.77 per share. Revenue fell short of the Street's outlook. The company's results were helped by particular strength in oncology products.
L Brands — The Victoria's Secret parent reported that April comparable-store sales fell five percent, twice the drop expected by analysts surveyed by StreetAccount.
Church & Dwight — The maker of Arm & Hammer baking soda and other consumer products came in six cents a share above estimates, with adjusted quarterly profit of 52 cents per share. Revenue also exceeded expectations. The company also forecast full-year profit slightly above consensus, as international organic sales strengthen.
Regeneron Pharmaceuticals — The drugmaker missed estimates by 14 cents a share, with adjusted quarterly profit of $2.92 per share. Revenue exceeded estimates, but overall results have been hurt by a drop in demand for the company's flagship macular degeneration drug Eylea.
Dunkin' Brands — The donut shop chain matched forecasts with quarterly profit of 48 cents per share, while revenue exceeded estimates on increased sales of breakfast foods and cold-brewed coffee.
Viacom — The media company reported adjusted quarterly profit of 79 cents per share, 20 cents a share above estimates. Revenue exceeded forecasts, as well. Earnings were down 60 percent from a year earlier, however, on higher programming costs and lower ad sales.
Square — Square lost eight cents per share for its latest quarter, only half the loss analysts were expecting. The mobile payment company saw revenue come in above Street estimates. Square was helped by lower costs and an increase in transactions, with a 33 percent jump in payment volume.
Fitbit — Fitbit reported a quarterly loss of 15 cents per share, three cents a share smaller than analysts had anticipated. The wearable fitness device maker's revenue beat forecast. Fitbit also reported a drop in costs.
American International Group — AIG reported adjusted quarterly profit of $1.36 per share, above consensus estimates of $1.08 a share. The insurance company saw better investment returns and was also helped by lower expenses.
Kraft Heinz — Kraft Heinz fell two cents a share short of estimates, with adjusted quarterly profit of 84 cents per share. The food company's revenue also came in below forecasts, hurt by weak demand in both the U.S. and Canada.
Cheesecake Factory — Cheesecake Factory came in one cent a share shy of estimates, with adjusted quarterly profit of 72 cents per share. The restaurant chain's revenue also missed estimates, as same-restaurant sales only increased by 0.3 percent.
Avis Budget — The company lost 94 cents per share for its latest quarter, more than the 52 cents a share loss Wall Street was expecting. The car rental company's revenue also fell slightly short of forecasts. A drop in used car prices and higher costs are also hurting the company's bottom line. Separately, Avis Budget struck a deal with its largest shareholder SRS Investment Management that will delay the hedge fund's push for bigger changes.
Royal Dutch Shell — The oil giant reported better-than-expected first-quarter profits that were more than double from a year earlier, helped by higher oil prices and increased profit margins.
HSBC — The bank earned a better-than-expected $3.13 billion for its first quarter, helped in part by a 25 percent increase in Asia operation profits.
Macy's — The retailer will end a tuxedo rental partnership with Tailored Brands by mutual agreement. The Tuxedo Shops at Macy's will operate until June 1, and then complete winding down operations by July 14. The companies say the pact did not generate the revenue that they had anticipated.
Bonds are telling one story and stocks another, and some strategists say Friday's jobs report could bring about a day of reckoning.
The CBOE Volatility Index is often referred to as the "market fear gauge," since it tends to rise as investors become more and more willing to pay for protection against a decline in equity prices.
But just because the index is plumbing 10-year lows this week, that does not necessarily mean that complacency has overtaken the market.
The VIX measures expected volatility by examining the current prices of S&P 500 options. The more people are willing to pay for these products — which, as a group, increase in value as the S&P is seen as more likely to either rise or fall — the higher the VIX will be.
If investors take the viewpoint that a big market drop is likely in the next 30 days, investors will pay more for options that would profit off of such a decline, and the VIX will rise in reflection of this "fear." More generally, expectations of large market moves to either the upside or downside will send the index higher.
So how do investors evaluate the likelihood of large market moves? The same way that a sports bettor might evaluate the likelihood of the Knicks winning their next game, or that a bartender might evaluate the likelihood of patrons getting into fights on a Friday night: based on what has happened recently. In the market, meanwhile, what has happened recently is approximately nothing. As LPL Financial technical analyst Ryan Detrick pointed out on Wednesday morning, in the past five days, the S&P 500 has traded in a range of merely 0.66 percent — its smallest five-day range since January 1994.
"The markets have been very quiet for a very long time. So if anything, the low VIX is really just telling us that things are quiet, and people are not willing to pay a lot for short-dated protection," Pravit Chintawongvanich, head derivatives strategist at Macro Risk Advisors, commented Tuesday on CNBC's "Trading Nation."
Some have complained that the market's level of volatility "ought to" be higher; "the statistically low level of volatility seemingly defies the risk we think should be associated with a U.S. economy approaching its 8-year anniversary and amidst sustained Fed tightening and an impending balance sheet drawdown," wrote Jim Strugger, derivatives strategist at MKM Partners, in a Wednesday note.
It is a common refrain. Even setting the macroeconomic backdrop aside, the natural inclination of those staring at the chart of the VIX is to "look at the previous time something happened and then instantly infer that the same thing is going to happen," as Chintawongvanich put it Tuesday.
For instance, it has become popular to look at other times the VIX has been near this level, and the way the market subsequently responded; such studies tend to find that the VIX eventually rose and that stocks fell.
But using such studies (or really anecdotes, given the small number of samples) to predict a similar move this time around is logically fallacious, insofar as the precise reason we are running them now is that volatility is at levels rarely seen before. To say that volatility tends to rise when it is at record-low levels is tautological — akin to saying that whenever the weather is as rainy as it has ever been before, it tends to get sunnier.
Such historical analysis likely offered cold comfort to the animals left off of Noah's Ark. Likewise, investors should think twice before making investment decisions based on signals supposedly thrown off by an untradeable and poorly understood index that is younger than Taylor Swift.
After a 27 percent year-to-date gain for the largest component in the S&P 500, has Apple peaked?
Boris Schlossberg, a macro strategist with BK Asset Management, certainly thinks so, saying that "the best days of Apple are behind it."
It's not that Apple cannot grow, but that its innovation has stalled — and the company has to come up with a fantastic new product to push the market share to new levels.
He's also taking a hard look at the stock's enormous market capitalization. It's now the top-weighted component in the S&P 500, at a bit less than 4 percent of the index. "It's not a good sign to be the biggest in the S&P," he said Wednesday on CNBC's "Trading Nation."
"It means you've pretty much reached your apex as far as growth potential."
However, the mammoth size of the stock may not be particularly worrisome for investors when considering the superior weighting of another tech behemoth a little over 30 years ago — that of IBM, which was 6.4 percent of the S&P 500 at the end of 1985. That was back when John Sculley was running Apple, Ronald Reagan was running the U.S. and Paul Volcker was running the Federal Reserve. And since then, shares of IBM have gained more than 300 percent — albeit while significantly lagging the index.
Shares of Apple initially slipped after the company on Tuesday reported quarterly revenue that fell short of estimates; it also reported selling fewer iPhones than expected. Its cash hoard grew more than $10 billion from the previous quarter to reach $256.8 billion.
If Apple wants to grow further, it should pour money into its research and development, particularly if the company gets a tax break with repatriation under the Trump administration, said Max Wolff, 55 Capital market strategist. He said Apple may have significant room to grow in emerging markets and in augmented reality.
"I'm not so sure Apple is done growing in terms of its market cap or in terms of its weight," Wolff said Wednesday on "Trading Nation."
Technology is the best-performing sector on the market this year. The four top-weighted names in the S&P 500 are Apple, Microsoft, Amazon and Facebook.

The Federal Reserve may have held steady on Wednesday, but Jim Cramer sees a rift happening between two contradictory market trends.
"I think this is the dichotomy that the Federal Reserve faces: individual companies doing very, very well, versus an economy that can't seem to sustain forward momentum. Individual stocks that soar versus the lethargic nature of business in the country, which has so definitely lost its animal spirits ever since it became clear that this Congress probably can't get anything major done," the "Mad Money" host said.
Cramer said that most Silicon Valley technology companies fly high above these worries, but for many businesses, the future of federal policy, health care, and taxes is a daily concern.
Yet even with the animal spirits dulled and Washington leading the way into the unknown, there are whole secular industries that are thriving, the "Mad Money" host noted.
Watch the full segment here:
Copper prices dropped Wednesday the most in 19 months after a jump in inventories increased worries about an economic slowdown in China, the world's largest consumer of the metal.
Copper futures for July delivery settled 3.49 percent lower at $2.5435 a pound, below their 50-day moving average for the first time since April 6 and their worst drop since September 2015. Prices of the metal continued falling in extended trade to near $2.53 a pound.
"I think the biggest thing is the worries about China," said Ryan McKay, associate commodities strategist at TD Securities.
"First we had a large build in LME copper stocks today, adding concern to the already elevated inventory levels," McKay said. "Also manufacturing data from China this week has come in below expectations, raising concerns around Chinese demand."
Copper performance so far this week

Source: FactSet
On-warrant inventories available for delivery at LME-registered warehouses increased by 38,950 tonnes, or 32 percent, to 160,200 tonnes, the highest since mid-April, according to Reuters.
Late Monday Eastern Time, the Caixin/Markit manufacturing PMI, a key survey for the Chinese economy, for April showed a greater-than-expected decline to 50.3, the lowest since September 2016.
Copper is a key material used in home construction, industrial manufacturing and consumer goods around the world. The Chinese government injected large amounts of loans last year in an attempt to prevent a sharp slowdown in the world's second largest economy. While recent economic reports have improved, the stimulus has also slowed.
For copper, "demand conditions are still good, just not as good they were three to six months ago," said Dane Davis, commodities research analyst at Barclays. "The stimulus is wearing off and it's starting to feed through in real prices, particularly copper and iron ore."
Iron ore futures fell more than 6.5 percent Wednesday.
Earlier in the week, copper prices leaped to their highest in nearly a month. Traders expected prices to rise given a planned month-long strike at Freeport-McMoran's Grasberg mine in Indonesia.
— CNBC's Gina Francolla and Reuters contributed to this report.

President Donald Trump, who has disparaged the New York Times on several occasions as "failing" may actually be good for the media company.
On CNBC's "Power Lunch," New York Times CEO Mark Thompson said "there is no question we have got some rocket fuel in the subscription business in recent quarters."


"We added an astonishing 308,000 net digital news subscriptions, making Q1 the single best quarter for subscriber growth in our history," Thompson noted in an earnings release on Wednesday.
The New York Times reported revenue and earnings before trading on Wednesday which exceeded expectations. Class A shares of the company closed more than 12 percent higher on Wednesday.
The company posted first-quarter adjusted earnings at 11 cents per share on revenue of $398.80 million, up 5.1 percent year over year. A consensus of analysts polled by Thomson Reuters expected EPS of 7 cents on revenue of $382 million.
"These results show the current strength and future potential of our digital strategy not just to reach a large audience, but also to deliver substantial revenue," Thompson said in the release.
The company also reported that its quarterly circulation revenue increased by 11.2 percent. Paid subscriptions for digital-only surpassed 2.2 million, up 62.2 percent year over year.
As of Wednesday's close, shares of the New York Times were up21 percent year to date, and have risen about 29 percent over the past 12 months.
New York Times shares 1-year performance

— CNBC's Luqman Adeniyi contributed to this report
It can be easy to forget that Facebook sells advertising for a living — until it reports its finances.
In recent months, most of the attention paid to the company has centered on its dominant role as a provider of news — especially the political kind -- and its alleged influence on elections.
Facebook itself came out with a report last week about how it was combating fake news. And at its developer conference last month, the company highlighted its push into new technologies.
But when the company releases first-quarter results Wednesday afternoon, investors will get a vivid reminder that Facebook butters its bread with sophisticated ad technology.
"Facebook has become one of the leading platforms because of its analytics and targeting ability," says David Pierpont, vice president of social media in the Dallas office of Ansira, a St.Louis-based digital marketing agency.
While Facebook was talking up virtual reality, telepathy-based communication and artificial intelligence at its F8 conference in San Jose last month, Pierpont was more excited about new ad products for small and mid-sized businesses.
Known as Automated Insights, the new data package and accompanying user interface give even small-fry marketers the ability to easily roll out targeted ad campaigns.
Such online ad programs previously have been the exclusive domain of national brands.
"They've helped level the playing field," Pierpont says of Facebook.
Wall Street analysts expect Facebook to report first-quarter revenue of $7.83 billion, up 45 percent from the same period a year earlier, while earnings per share are pegged at $1.12, up from 77 cents, according to Yahoo Finance.
The company founded by CEO Mark Zuckerberg in 2004 to help Harvard University students meet now has ad products for each phase of the online marketing funnel, according to Pierpont.
"They have units for awareness, consideration and conversion," he says.
All this innovation has led to a boost in return on investment for digital ad buyers, which in turn has helped boost what they're willing to pay.
"Facebook ad prices are going up because so is performance," says Pierpont.
Others in the online ad business agree.
While Google, Facebook's larger rival, has been improving its ad tools across its services — including mobile search and YouTube — the ad-buying experience is "not as seamless" as on Facebook properties, says Grant Cohen, a general manager at Kochava, a mobile-measurement firm based in Sandpoint, ID.
"Facebook still provides better tools" than Google, especially for smaller advertisers with limited digital marketing expertise, says Cohen.
For example, marketers can create a mobile ad campaign across Facebook, Instagram and Messenger from one "service dashboard," Cohen says.
That helped drive Facebook ad prices higher, he says.
However, Google has narrowed the gap in the last six months, especially in mobile ad targeting, according to Cohen.
And because consumers will stand only so many ads on their mobile devices, Facebook's ability to sell ever more ads is limited. Facebook warned on its Q3 2016 earnings call that the number of ads it could cram into users' news feeds would slow meaningfully in the second half of 2017, and that deadline is almost here.
So to maintain its robust sales growth, then, the company will have to keep improving its ad tools — even as it works on more exotic projects.












Snap will join the ranks of Facebook and Google in importance in the eyes of "serious advertisers," Bill Ford, CEO of General Atlantic, told CNBC on Wednesday.
In his first TV interview ever, Ford — whose private equity firm has $19.6 billion under management — told "Squawk Alley" that if Snap continues to grow its user base at its current rate the company will soon be on the same playing field as Google and Facebook. (General Atlantic has ownership stakes in Snap, Uber and Airbnb, among others.)
"What you're starting to see is serious advertisers are recognizing Snap as an ad platform of scale alongside Google and Facebook, and [advertisers] want a third alternative," he said.
Ford said recent investment from advertisers is a sign Snap is on the right track. "One data point last week that I think is worth knowing about is WPP more than doubling their ad commitment to Snap this year, from under $100 million to under $200 million," said Ford.
Snap's ability to monetize is one of the reasons he's confident in the company. "We're big believers in the company, so we'll be in there for a while."
Still, Ford says the company will need to show revenue to maintain investor confidence. "They'll announce earnings next week; we'll see how their first quarter went," said Ford.
Ford also said that despite all the problems Uber has had recently, CEO Travis Kalanick will be fine.
"We've seen it over years and years, and I think Travis has learned some very challenging lessons," Ford said. "But the good news is he is learning. I think he's taken good counsel from his board and some of his investors, and he's got our confidence," Ford said. "I think he'll do great things."

The concept of putting up a little bit of money for a lot of return is an investor's dream. But a new plan that regulators approved Tuesday is generating fears that the dream could become a nightmare.
ForceShares has introduced two new exchange-traded funds that deliver four times the returns, either higher or lower, of S&P 500 futures. The ForceShares Daily 4X US Market FuturesLong Fund and ForceShares Daily 4X US Market Futures Short Fund are designed to return 400 percent of the performance of the index.
While such "leveraged" ETFs are hardly new — a plethora of products offer double or triple up or down movements in various parts of the market — this marks the first time a quadruple fund has been launched.
Some market participants worry that the temptation of such outsized returns will be impossible to resist, with dire results possible.
"This is an innovation for people who are going to run the game, sit behind the table and deal the cards, and it's going to be a really bad innovation for those who think they can buy it and juice up some of their returns," said Sal Arnuk, a principal at Themis Trading. "This is market crack, and it concerns me."
Themis officials have been warning about the products for months. In addition to the dangers of causing owners to lose money rapidly, Arnuk worries about the administration of the funds themselves.
Whether you're running an established small business or just starting your journey toward entrepreneurship, it's safe to assume most business owners are on the hunt for new ways to grow their enterprise and improve their bottom line.
And we should all want to help them do so. Why? According to the  Small Business Administration (SBA), small businesses create nearly 70 percent of net new jobs nationally, and drive tremendous growth in our local economies. When small businesses flourish, everyone wins.
My father-in-law is a small business owner. As a result, I have seen first-hand the sacrifices they make on a daily basis, and am driven to design products and provide resources to help small businesses meet their goals and fulfill their dreams.
In honor of National Small Business Week, here are four ways small business owners (SBOs) can drive business growth this year.
Main Street investors should be wary of listening to Wall Street analysts on trading Apple's stock, CNBC's Jim Cramer warned Wednesday.
Cramer said sometimes Apple gets a bad rap as the largest company in the world by market cap.
"They want you to trade it. They want you to be in and out and in and out. They think you're the world's greatest hedge fund," he said on "Squawk on the Street."
Cramer's comments came a day after the tech giant's stock took a dip after it reported fewer-than-expected iPhone sales in the last quarter.
U.S. equities opened lower Wednesday as Apple knocked the Nasdaq composite from a record high.
Apple CEO Tim Cook attributed the disappointing numbers to the "consequence of the number of rumors and reports about future products."
Some Wall Street analysts Wednesday reiterated their buy ratings on Apple but mentioned more controversies than expected, including the company's weak growth in China in the past quarter.
For more on Apple, watch CEO Tim Cook's interview on "Mad Money" on Wednesday at 6 p.m. EDT.
Disclosure: Jim Cramer's charitable trust owns shares of Apple.

JPMorgan analysts see U.S. stocks rallying now that there's greater "clarity" on tax reform, earnings and the French election.
"We believe the risk/reward for equities has improved," Dubravko Lakos-Bujas, head of U.S. equity strategy and global quant research at JPMorgan Securities, said in a Wednesday note.
Lakos-Bujas expects the S&P 500 could likely top his year-end price target of 2,400. That is less than 10 points above Tuesday's close and near the average 2,407 forecast of CNBC's Market Strategist Survey in March.
Last Wednesday, President Donald Trump laid out some details on his highly anticipated tax proposal. U.S. corporate earnings are showing the best year-on-year growth since the third period of 2011. Now risks from the French presidential election this Sunday also appear to have fallen, given centrist candidate Emmanuel Macron's large lead in polls over far-right candidate Marine Le Pen.
Global growth also looks better, likely leading to more alignment in central bank policies that keeps the U.S. dollar weaker and helping company earnings worldwide, Lakos-Bujas said.
Uncertainty has kept stocks in a trading range since March 1, the last time the S&P 500 hit a record. Hedge funds also lowered their exposure to stocks from near-record levels, Lakos-Bujas noted.
That drop in investor positioning sets up for more buyers to come in and send stocks higher.

"We believe a positive outcome for Trump's growth agenda is underpriced by the market currently,"  Lakos-Bujas said.
"Even if the tax reform pivots to a much less ambitious plan than the GOP/Trump proposals, we still would see potentially meaningful upside for earnings and equity values," he said.
That said, investors still have a few things to worry about.
The two French candidates are set to debate later on Wednesday, and if Le Pen wins the presidency on Sunday she will likely threaten the future of the European Union.
The Federal Open Market Committee is also scheduled to conclude its meeting Wednesday afternoon, and could surprise markets by signalling a faster pace of tightening this year.
Friday's monthly employment report might also add to concerns about the U.S. economy given recent softness in some data points.
For years, we've heard that millennials were afraid of the stock market because of the Great Recession. The market rally since the election may have changed some minds.
Nearly one-third of investors age 18 to 34 recently said they plan to move more of their retirement savings into stocks, according to a new survey from MassMutual.
While most investors — 60 percent — plan to stay the course with their 401(k)s and other workplace retirement plans, millennials are the most open to changing their portfolios because of the rally, based on a poll of 450 Americans the first week of April. (See table below.)
Some of the largest telecom companies in the world really want their hands on Straight Path Communications.
Share prices of the wireless technology company closed more than 23 percent higher, to above $155 on Wednesday. The latest surge came after Straight Path said it received a "superior proposal" from a mystery bidder, topping an offer already on the table from AT&T.
The bidding war for Straight Path began in early April, when AT&T signed a merger agreement to acquire the company for $95.63 per share, representing a total value of $1.6 billion.
At the time, this implied a premium on the stock of 204 percent to Straight Path's closing price of $31.41 on Jan. 11, the day before it announced a settlement with the FCC and that it was considering strategic alternatives.
Toward the end of last month though, Straight Path said it received another unsolicited offer from a "multi-national telecommunications company," of $104.64 per share. The company notified AT&T of the superior deal and said it would pay AT&T a $38 million termination fee, should it accept the higher offer from the mystery bidder.
On Wednesday morning, Straight Path announced that the unidentified bidder has now revised its offer up, to $135.96 per share, reflecting a value of approximately $2.3 billion.
Shares of Straight Path closed Tuesday slightly under $126. The stock is up nearly 588 percent over the past six months and has climbed 331 percent from one month ago.
AT&T now has three days to negotiate its previous offer or outbid what's on the table, Straight Path said.
Verizon Communications, which has acquired AOL and is in the process of buying Yahoo, was considering a buyout offer for Straight Path that would top AT&T's initial bid, sources familiar with the matter told Reuters last month. It is unclear if Verizon is the bidder raising its offer Wednesday.
Verizon and AT&T both declined comment to CNBC.
The wireless spectrum held by Straight Path is expected to play a large role in the latest 5G networks. Both AT&T and its bigger rival, Verizon, have been conducting their own 5G trials.
Talk about low-energy stocks.
The energy sector has the highest valuation in the S&P 500, even though it's the market's worst performer this year.
WTI crude oil has lost 10 percent this year and the sector is down nearly 11 percent, and some strategists see further downside. "I do think it's going to be a challenging road for oil, and we seem to just continue to be on a roller coaster that bottoms at $40, and tops out at $55. And we can't seem to get off of this roller-coaster ride," Gina Sanchez, CEO of Chantico Global, said Tuesday on CNBC's "Trading Nation."
At nearly 28 times forward earnings, the sector's forward price-earnings ratio is significantly above the second most richly priced sector, consumer discretionary. Its trailing price-to-earnings ratio is 33 times, second only to real estate among the 11 sectors.
This high price as compared with expected earnings comes despite a major comeback for energy profits; the sector is on track to report 790 percent net income growth this quarter from the first quarter of 2016, according to FactSet estimates. Energy is also reporting the highest year-over-year earnings growth of any sector, according to FactSet. Buying energy stocks is difficult at this juncture given how much the price of oil has vacillated this year, Sanchez said. Crude oil has bounced around a range of roughly $47 to $56 a barrel, and in Tuesday trading dove beneath its 200-day moving average to its lowest level in five weeks as higher output in the U.S., Canada and Libya pressured the price. This comes even as Russia and major OPEC member countries have lowered production. Oil prices just "aren't cooperating," Sanchez said. "We are probably going to see OPEC cuts hold, but we are seeing less and less compliance, and that's going to be a challenge."
One popular exchange-traded fund that tracks energy stocks, the XLE, has fallen this year along with the sector. It closed at 67.31 on Tuesday.
"It's not pretty here in the short term," Rich Ross, Evercore ISI's head of technical analysis, said Tuesday on "Trading Nation," examining a chart of the ETF.
However, Ross said, absent a break below 65 — a key level of support the XLE held last year — he wouldn't write off energy and crude because he is more optimistic about fundamentals than he is of the charts. Sanchez said she could become more bullish.
"Geopolitical tension tends to buoy the price of oil; in fact, it will cause oil price spikes. That's certainly nothing that anybody's hoping for," but it would be something that she is watching when considering the future of energy stocks and oil.
A daily morning look at the financial stories you need to know to start the day.
STOCKS/ECONOMY
-Stock futures are down after Tuesday's modest gains for all three major indexes. Today we get the Fed's interest rate decision and ADP private sector jobs data for April.
-Watch shares of Apple after the company missed revenue and iPhone sales targets in its earnings report.
-Beef prices are soaring after a blizzard hit the Midwest this past weekend.

After missing the McDonald's rally this year Goldman Sachs is changing its mind, saying the company's sales will continue to improve in the coming years due to its new technology initiatives.
The Wall Street firm raised its rating Wednesday on the restaurant chain to buy from neutral and predicted earnings this year will come in above expectations. McDonald's shares hit an all-time high last week and are up 16 percent this year through Tuesday versus the S&P 500's 7 percent return. Goldman's Karen Holthouse shared her two key reasons for the move:
"We acknowledge we are upgrading near an all-time high in shares, but have evolved in two key areas of our thought process, (better visibility into 1) the 'experience of the future' [mobile and kiosk digital ordering] rollout in the U.S. and 2) valuation versus refranchising-driven estimate uncertainty), see signs of evolution in a key risk (US value), and view digital/delivery initiatives as open-ended, multi-year upside."
The analyst raised her McDonald's price target to $153 from $126, representing 8 percent upside from Tuesday's close. Holthouse cited how the company will roll out the mobile and kiosk digital ordering to 2,500 US restaurants this year. "MCD's app is seeing improving reviews and strong download rankings, with positive customer commentary on personalized coupons/offers," she wrote. "We also view scale as a competitive advantage, with the sheer volume of data collected allowing a shorter feedback loop on behaviors/more agility." In addition, the analyst noted how McDonald's sales numbers started getting better in early 2015 and previous sales outperformance cycles lasted eight years. The company "still could be very early in the cycle," she added. As a result, Holthouse raised her McDonald's 2017 earnings per share forecast to $6.48 from $5.99 versus the Wall Street consensus of $6.38. "Delivery also is expanding beyond the initial test market, and we see the potential for these initiatives to drive upside to our multi-year comp outlook and investor excitement about a multi-year comp cycle," she wrote.
— CNBC's Michael Bloom contributed to this story.
Traders short selling Tesla's soaring stock have lost $3.7 billion this year, eclipsing the combined losses of traders shorting Apple, Amazon.com, and Netflix.
The Palo Alto, California, company's stock has become a battleground between investors betting Chief Executive Elon Musk will revolutionize the automobile industry and skeptics who question his aggressive production targets.
Those conflicting views of the electric-car maker have deepened in recent weeks, with short sellers increasing their exposure even as paper losses mount and Tesla's stock hits new highs.
Short bets against Tesla have grown to $10.1 billion from $8.7 billion at the start of April, and during that time short sellers have racked up paper losses of $1.4 billion, according to S3 Partners, a financial analytics firm. Tesla's stock has climbed 15 percent in the same period and has surged 50 percent so far in 2017.
"You have your momentum guys riding this stock up and making a fantastic return, and the fundamental guys holding onto their shorts and building them and saying 'this can't continue' and waiting for the shoe to drop," said Ihor Dusaniwsky, S3 Partners' head of research.
"It's one of your classic yin and yangs on Wall Street."
Overall this year, short sellers betting against Tesla have lost $3.7 billion, far more than has been lost shorting any other U.S. stock, according to S3.
The next three most painful stocks for short sellers this year have been Apple, Amazon.com and Netflix. Short sellers have lost $1.5 billion betting against Apple, $1.1 billion betting against Amazon.com and $776 million on Netflix, Dusaniwsky said.
In Wednesday's quarterly report, investors will look for an update on Tesla's plan to launch its mass-market Model 3 sedan in the second half of 2017 and quickly increase production to a target of 500,000 cars per year in 2018. Last year it sold 76,230 cars, missing its target of at least 80,000 vehicles.
"Investors will likely react strongly to any updates to Model 3 timing," UBS analyst Colin Langan wrote in a preview.
Tesla in early April overtook General Motors as the largest U.S. automaker by market capitalization.
On Tuesday, Tesla's market value was $53 billion, nearly $3 billion larger than GM's. GM's stock fell 2.8 percent after it reported a decline in U.S. new vehicle sales for April in a fresh sign a long boom cycle that lifted the American auto industry to record sales last year is losing steam.
There was a time when Apple investors were loath to call it a "dividend stock." Now it's the biggest dividend stock there is.
Apple announced after the bell Tuesday a 10.5 percent increase in its dividend to $13.22 billion annually, surpassing Exxon Mobil's $12.77 billion payout and making it the biggest-paying dividend stock in the world.
The iPhone maker reported quarterly earnings after the bell which slightly disappointed Wall Street as sales fell short of estimates. But it also said it was hiking its quarterly dividend to 63 cents a share from 57 cents a share.
The giant payout increase, a luxury made possible by the tech company's now $256.8 billion cash hoard, should help cushion the blow.
Biggest annual dividends in the S&P 500

Source: S&P Dow Jones Indices
This is the fifth annual dividend hike since Apple initiated its first payout in 2012, according to S&P Dow Jones Indices. This increase is bigger than last year's 9.6 percent hike, but short of the 15 percent increase back in 2013, according to S&P Dow Jones.
"They pay out more than U.S. Steel is worth," wrote Howard Silverblatt, senior index analyst and data guru with S&P Dow Jones Indices, who trumpeted the payout in an email shortly after Apple's earnings hit.
To be sure, Exxon still pays a higher dividend yield than Apple (3.75 percent to 1.72 percent) because its share price is lower. The oil producer long loved by investors for its payout increased its dividend for the 35th year in a row last week by 2.7 percent to 77 cents a share, Silverblatt notes.
What's most shocking about Apple's dividend is that it could easily be even bigger if the company didn't also choose to deploy some capital via share repurchases. The tech giant announced after the bell that it was upping its buyback program by $35 billion and plans to spend a total of $210 billion buying back its stock by the end of March 2019.
Correction: This story originally misstated the amount Apple is spending on share repurchases. It is $210 billion, according to its earnings release.
Interest rates should rise and stocks should temporarily fall this summer, said noted investor, Jeffrey Gundlach.
Gundlach expects the 10-year Treasury yield to move higher, and a summer interest rate rise should "go along with a correction in the stock market."
"I think it's more likely that equities drop when yields are rising," he said in response to a separate question.
Gundlach is the Chief Executive Officer of DoubleLine and was speaking on a "Closed-End Funds Audio Webcast" Tuesday after the market close to discuss the DoubleLine Opportunistic Credit Fund (DBL) and the DoubleLine Income Solutions Fund (DSL), which DoubleLine is an advisor to.
As the United States adapts to the presidency of Donald Trump and faces rising tensions abroad, Berkshire Hathaway shareholders will descend on Omaha, Nebraska this weekend seeking reassurance, from Warren Buffett.
The weekend known as "Woodstock for Capitalists" is unique in corporate America, a celebration of the billionaire's image and success at a conglomerate whose businesses range from Geico insurance to the BNSF railroad to See's candies to Ginsu knives.
Buffett, 86, and vice chairman Charlie Munger, 93, will answer five hours of questions at Saturday's annual meeting.
Many say it reinforces their views about investing and Berkshire, even if it remains unclear how much new they learn.
"Watching someone like (Buffett) with strong command on details of the economy and Berkshire's operations is very impressive," said Meyer Shields, a Keefe, Bruyette & Woods analyst who rates Berkshire "market perform." "But you're not going to learn a lot about Berkshire Hathaway the company."
Last year's attendance fell to about 37,000 from more than 40,000 a year earlier.
But there were also 1.1 million real-time sign-ons to Yahoo Finance, which webcast the meeting for the first time. It will do so again, in English and Mandarin.
Even after smaller stocks soundly beat the market the last 12 months, Chuck Royce believes the asset class will continue to rise for several more years. The Russell 2000 index is up 23 percent in the past year through Monday versus the S&P 500's 15 percent return through Monday. CNBC's Mike Santoli spoke with Royce in an exclusive interview for CNBC PRO. Santoli asked the investor about his outlook for small-caps, which experienced a decline of more than 25 percent from mid-2015 to early 2016.  "When small caps have declined more than 15 percent you tend to get pretty dramatic runs over a period of time. Maybe as much as 100 percent on average, so we really are nowhere near that level," Royce said. Small-cap "value tends to have a pretty long run. Certainly, the last long run was right after the internet boom. So after the internet boom you really had almost seven years, value did superbly. I'm not sure it will be seven years, but I certainly think it's much more likely 3, 4, 5 years. So we're about a year and change into it. So I'm very comfortable saying this has a long way to go," he added.  Royce is chairman of Royce & Associates, a small-cap specialist investment management firm with nearly $18 billion in assets which he founded in 1972.  The small-cap portfolio manager also revealed why the rise of ETFs is creating opportunities for fundamental stock pickers:
"ETFs have setup highly correlated behaviors in certain stocks if it's part of an index. The Russell [2000] has become a very popular ETF, billions of dollars [are] in the Russell. That has in a sense left out a range of stocks that are … not in the Russell that might become more interesting because a relative prices advantage is being setup. So it's creating, I think in the long run, actually opportunity for an active investor."
See here for the full CNBC PRO report and the interview video.
The merger of consumer-review site Angie's List and IAC's HomeAdvisor has huge potential and may be just the beginning of IAC's expansion into the space, CEO Joey Levin told CNBC on Tuesday.
The company announced the deal on Monday. The new publicly traded company will be called ANGI Homeservices Inc.
It happened about a year and a half after Angie's List rebuffed IAC's first bid. About six months ago, Angie's List reached out to IAC, Levin said.
"We started to dig in very deeply. And when we dug in, we realized the potential for our business with their business ... was enormous," he said in an interview with "Closing Bell."
He hopes to use the same strategy IAC has used in its other businesses to expand its footprint.
"You look at travel and there's been enormous roll-up in the travel category under Expedia. You look at Match, and there's been enormous roll-up in the dating category. I'd love to see the same playbook work out here in HomeAdvisor," he said. "Right now we're ... focused on just one, and I think it's a big one to digest, but that could be the playbook in the future, I hope."
IAC will own a "significant" portion of ANGI Homeservices, 87 percent to 90 percent, Levin explained.
Shares of Angie's List soared Tuesday, closing up over 61 percent. IAC ended the day 14 percent higher.
Levin said the big boost in Angie's List reflects a number of things, including the value of Angie's List, the value of HomeAdvisor and the value of the synergies.
In fact, he said, HomeAdvisor has been on "an unbelievable run" recently.
"They've been growing revenue and top line for … seven or eight straight quarters, over 35 percent. The business is in a very good place right now. So I think that's a piece of it, too. People are excited about getting a piece of HomeAdvisor," Levin said.
And there will likely be more acquisitions to come for IAC after everyone catches their breath, he said.
"We always look for new opportunities," Levin said. "What's left in IAC, in addition to a handful of very interesting businesses besides both Match and ANGI Homeservices, which will be public, is a significant pile of cash, and we'll look to deploy that aggressively as we always do."
As the Nasdaq climbed to new highs and left the S&P 500 behind, Jim Cramer looked to the charts for answers to which companies were really behind the record move.
The "Mad Money" host turned to technician Ed Posni, the managing director of Barchetta Capital Management and Cramer's colleague at RealMoney.com, for his take on the tech-driven rally.
Posni first noticed the Nasdaq diverging from the S&P in March. When the whole market got a boost in April, the Nasdaq took off while the S&P struggled to retrace its February highs.
What Cramer found particularly interesting was that the usual suspects behind tech-fueled rallies, the FAANG stocks (Facebook, Apple, Amazon, Netflix, and Google parent Alphabet), are also heavily weighted components of the S&P 500.
"In other words, the stunning rally in the Nasdaq is about more than just these high-profile stocks," Cramer said.
Posni started by comparing two key exchange-traded funds, or ETFs, to pinpoint one of this rally's biggest drivers: software.

The chart above shows the PowerShares QQQ Trust ETF, which tracks the Nasdaq 100, in red, and the iShares North American Tech Software ETF in green.
Since the start of 2017, the software ETF regularly outperformed the Nasdaq 100, a better measure of technology stocks than the broader Nasdaq composite.
"So when you see the software stocks outperforming the Nasdaq 100, it's a pretty clear statement that software is beating the rest of tech," the "Mad Money" host said.
As for Posni's favorite software plays, the technician first turned to Microsoft, the biggest player in the space. For the past eight months, its stock maintained a floor of support at its 50-day moving average, a sign Posni saw as an excellent buying opportunity.
The stock has since risen almost $5 from those levels, so Cramer said investors may want to hold off before purchasing shares.
Posni's analysis supported that notion as the Relative Strength Index, a key momentum indicator, put Microsoft's stock in overbought territory, meaning it ran too far too quickly.

"Ponsi notes that when Microsoft got overbought in the recent past, your best course of action has been to wait for the stock to come back down. Now, if history's any guide, you'll get your chance to buy this one closer to the 50-day moving average," Cramer said.
Microsoft wasn't the rally's only driver. Another was the stock of Salesforce, which has similarly been holding a floor of support at its 50-day moving average and has built up a bullish consolidation pattern.
"It's done so on low volume, which Ponsi says is pretty normal," Cramer explained. "Right now he thinks traders are waiting for Salesforce to break out to the upside on high volume, at which point he expects them to start buying it aggressively again."
Cramer likes the stock even more after a recent interview with CEO Marc Benioff, but suggested waiting for a pullback to buy shares.
"If you don't get a pullback and you don't already own it, you've got my blessing to put on a partial position on now," he added.
Finally, Cramer could not ignore Adobe Systems' run, especially since he owns shares of the digital media and marketing software player for his charitable trust, ActionAlertsPlus.
"Adobe has been on fire. It is up more than 30 percent year-to-date. I think it's emblematic of what's working in the software space," the "Mad Money" host said.
Posni particularly liked the stock's breakout move several weeks ago when it reached a new all-time high that helped it continue to make new highs since.
However, both Cramer and the technician suggested waiting to buy Adobe stock until it comes back to its 20-day moving average, where in the past it has found a floor of support around $31.
"Here's the bottom line: the charts, as interpreted by Ed Ponsi, suggest that this fabulous tech rally is being fueled, in large part, by some broad-based strength in the software space," Cramer said. "I think, because of all the power in those names, this move? It's far from over."
Watch the full segment here:
President Donald Trump in an interview Monday said he would consider a gasoline tax increase if it paid for highway infrastructure. The new president may not realize that the federal government has not imposed one since 1993.
And there's one big reason why: When gasoline prices go up, presidential approval ratings go down.

Source: Strategas
That's why Dan Clifton, head of policy research at Strategas, believes the idea floated by Trump this week is a nonstarter.
"We remain highly skeptical of Congress working in a bipartisan manner on tax reform even if infrastructure is included. And a gasoline tax increase won't be enough for Democratic support if tax rates are being lowered in a meaningful way. Consumers are very sensitive to gasoline prices and historically voters have rejected ballot initiatives to raise the gasoline tax even when the money is used for infrastructure," he wrote in a note.
The Harvard-Harris poll asked voters what they thought about a series of possible surcharges, and one of the least popular was a gasoline tax, with 77 percent against it. The online poll of 2,027 voters was conducted in mid-April. The most popular surcharge? Taxing the rich.
Construction stocks soared on Tuesday after several companies reported better-than-expected earnings and investors bet demand will get a big lift from President Trump's infrastructure plan later this year.
Shares of Martin Marietta Materials, a maker of concrete and cement, closed up more than 7 percent, while Vulcan Materials closed up more than 4 percent. Valve maker Flowserve gained as much as 2 percent during Tuesday's trade, closing relatively flat.
Martin Marietta blew Street estimates out of the water, reporting first-quarter earnings of 67 cents per share on revenue of $791.7 million. According to FactSet, analysts expected earnings of 39 cents per share on revenue of $724.2 million.
The CEO of Martin Marietta, Ward Nye, was optimistic in a press release, calling the construction industry "vibrant."
"We remain highly confident that we are in a multi-year construction recovery and that Martin Marietta is particularly well positioned to benefit from the expected increased demand," Nye added.
The surge comes after Transportation Secretary Elaine Chao said this week that details on President Donald Trump's trillion-dollar plan for infrastructure will be disclosed "pretty soon."
Flowserve reported first-quarter earnings of 25 cents per share on revenue of $863.6 million on Monday. The Texas-based company beat analyst expectations, which estimated earnings at 18 cents per share on revenue of $813.3 million, according to FactSet.
One technical measure of market strength shows that the rally is on firm footing, according to one technical analyst.
Market breadth — the number of stocks advancing relative to the number of stocks falling — is now quite strong, observes Jonathan Krinsky, chief market technician at MKM Partners.
Specifically, Krinsky is referring to market breadth within the Russell 3000, an index that tracks nearly all U.S. equities. With roughly 73 percent of all stocks in the Russell 3000 above their 200-day moving averages, "it's tough to make the case that breadth is weak," as Krinsky wrote in a recent note.
"We use the 60 percent threshold as the bull-bear level. If you go back to the last time we had a significant breadth divergence that did lead to a market correction, that was back in the summer of 2015. And we held under that 60 percent threshold for almost two months before the market finally rolled over," he said.

Though some market watchers have made the argument that a mere handful of high-performing stocks are driving the broader market rally (notably Apple, Facebook and Amazon), that doesn't mean other stocks aren't participating in the rally, Krinsky noted. A small number of stocks contributing the most gains would be troubling if the remainder of equities were not participating and moving lower, "and that's really not the case," he said in an interview Monday on CNBC's "Trading Nation."
While this measurement indicates strength in Krinsky's eyes, investors ought to keep an eye on that percentage of Russell 3000 components above their 200-day moving average. If that number were to roll beneath 60 percent as it did two years ago, "that's really where we would get worried."
Though breadth is indeed strong, stocks' valuations appear a bit elevated at current levels, said Chad Morganlander, portfolio manager at Washington Crossing Advisors. He remains cautious on equities at current levels.
The market's breadth has "broadened" because of a perception that there is going to be synchronized global growth and that a fiscal stimulus package will come out of Washington, he said on "Trading Nation."
In other words, the fact that many stocks have moved higher recently doesn't necessarily mean that the rally will continue.
Shares of Tenet Healthcare skyrocketed Tuesday, a day after the company reported a smaller-than-expected quarterly loss amid a choppy environment for health-care stocks.
The stock closed up more than 21 percent.
The Dallas-based hospital operator reported an adjusted loss of 27 cents per share for the first quarter, compared with a Thomson Reuters consensus estimate of a 51 cent loss.
Tenet also announced it will sell a number of its hospitals in Houston to a competitor, HCA Holdings. Net proceeds of this sale will be $725 million, Tenet said, and the deal should close in the third quarter.
The news comes at a time when health-care companies and hospitals are seesawing on President Donald Trump's every word about the industry. Republicans in Congress are still short of the votes to get an Obamacare replacement bill passed in the House — what has been one of Trump's top goals since the onset of his presidential campaign.
Tenet has said it's been implementing more cost-cutting programs that are focused on raising hospital segment margins, thereby turning its business around. Selling off assets in its hospitals portfolio, for example, allows Tenet to ease its debt load.
Along with the earnings beat, Tenet said it has signed a multiyear deal with Humana in which all of Tenet's hospitals, hospital-affiliated outpatient centers and physicians will be phased back into the insurer's network by October.
Even with this week's stock gains, though, shares of the company have fallen a more than 41 percent over the past 12 months.
Apple may be famous for keeping cash overseas, but many other companies stand to benefit if President Donald Trump gets his way with a tax holiday.
The tech giant's quarterly results Tuesday are expected to show overall cash reserves of more than $250 billion, with the vast majority stockpiled offshore. That cash has been accumulated at a rate of $3.6 million an hour in recent months, according to The Wall Street Journal.
On a per-share basis, the company's foreign earnings left overseas come to more than $40 a share, according to CNBC calculations using figures from a recent report by the Institute on Taxation and Economic Policy.
Unlike Apple, most companies do not report overseas cash breakdowns. But regulations do require that they report money that will be reinvested overseas and thus exempted from U.S. taxation. For many companies, that figure will include a substantial cash element.
Here's how Apple's vast sum compares with other companies' overseas holdings on a per-share basis.
Despite Wall Street's obsession with Apple's enormous cash war chest, one respected financial academic believes the best thing for the iPhone juggernaut to do with that haul is "probably nothing."The advice applies to both the iPhone maker's record $246.09 billion in cash and its business model, said Aswath Damodaran, a professor of corporate finance and valuation at New York University's Stern School of Business.
"The recognition has to come that this is a cash machine in a slowing market business," said Damodaran, who is sometimes referred to as Wall Street's "dean of valuation," in a phone interview with CNBC. Apple shares traded at record highs Tuesday near $147 ahead of the company's fiscal second quarter earnings report after the close Tuesday. Damodaran said the stock is fully valued around $140 a share, while $94 was a good place to buy.
A strange divergence is emerging in the market between the companies that are making money and those that are making their investors money, according to Tom Lee.
Lee, a longtime equity strategist now with Fundstrat Global Advisors, pointed out in a recent note that five sectors are leading the market's earnings growth: energy, FANG (that is, Facebook, Amazon, Netflix and Google parent Alphabet, which Lee considers a sector unto themselves), financials, materials, and technology other than FANG.
Of those sectors, however, all fell during the month of April save for FANG. "In other words, there is a disconnect between sectors/cos driving EPS recovery and stock price gains," Lee wrote.
This could indicate that the smart bet "is for the laggards, like energy and the banks, to catch up to the broader market," Lee said in an interview on CNBC's "Trading Nation" Monday.
In other words, the earnings growth should be driving share-price gains, in Lee's view.
That said, Lee is no macro bull. Long known as the most optimistic strategist on the Street, he has turned cautious this year, with a 2275 year-end target on the S&P 500 (which implies a 5 percent drop from current levels).
"I don't think earnings is the reason to be bearish," but "we're pretty cautious on the market overall" due to another divergence — that between the fixed-income and equity markets.
As it has been broadly pointed out, equity markets are trading as if growth is picking up, while the continued low levels seen in long-term bond yields imply the economy isn't going anywhere fast.
Billionaire investor Mark Cuban told CNBC on Tuesday he started buying Twitter after the company got its act together on artificial intelligence.
Twitter shares closed up nearly 4 percent Tuesday after Cuban's comment.

(Source: FactSet.)
In an interview on "Squawk Alley," the "Shark Tank" judge said he's been buying into companies that work in AI, deep learning and machine learning.
"I started buying Twitter recently because I think they finally got their act together with artificial intelligence," he said at BTIG's 15th annual charity day in New York.
JPMorgan's research team shared its top current stock picks in its monthly "U.S. Analyst Focus List" report to clients."Each month, we ask our equity analysts for one to three of their best stock picks," Nicholas Rosato, head of North America equity research, wrote in the note Tuesday. Here are four companies that JPMorgan recommended and their price targets. 1) Peabody Energy (BTU) "We feel Peabody Energy is significantly undervalued and should appreciate as selling pressure from credit investors eases and as investors realize the opportunity in the stock," analyst John Bridges wrote. Bridges has an overweight rating on Peabody Energy with a $35 price target, representing 36 percent upside from Monday's close.
President Donald Trump's comment about breaking up the nation's biggest banks makes sense, but is almost impossible, CNBC's Jim Cramer said Tuesday.
Speaking on "Squawk on the Street," Cramer said when Trump, who made his remarksthe same day he met with leaders of the Independent Community Bankers of America, is speaking in front of a particular audience, he aims to please.
"This audience does not like the big banks," Cramer said. "They feel like what happened during the Great Recession was that there was far too much concentration in the hands of Wells Fargo, in the hands of JPMorgan, in the hands of Bank of America."
Cramer added, "Those were really at the behest of the government. They were trying to make sure everybody was able to have a bank that worked and we didn't have a collapse. So, to undo it, while it certainly would make sense in terms of getting back to the percentages ... I think is almost impossible."
Major averages slipped Monday but then rebounded after Trump said in an interview with Bloomberg News he is considering "looking at" breaking up the big banks. The Dow closed down, while the S&P and Nasdaq posted gains.
Trump's comments could push efforts to revive the Depression-era Glass-Steagall law that separated commercial lending from investment banking, but would require an act of Congress.
Also watch:  Expect it will be a 'bad day' for United's Munoz: Cramer
As Amazon and Google parent Alphabet propel the Nasdaq 100 to new all-time highs this week— and notch record levels of their own — investors may wonder which $900+ technology stock will break the $1,000 milestone first.
"Choosing between Amazon and Google is kind of like picking your favorite child. It's just something we wouldn't recommend doing," Jonathan Krinsky, chief market technician at MKM Partners, said Monday on CNBC's "Power Lunch."
Amazon and Alphabet both finished Monday trading at record highs, closing at $954.40 and $932.82, respectively.
Krinsky says both will touch $1,000 in due time — but if forced to choose between his proverbial children, the technical analyst would pick Amazon. Amazon recently made a new all-time high relative to the S&P 500, whereas Alphabet is still hovering just below the relative high it made in early 2016.
"On a relative basis, Amazon has a little bit more momentum," he said.
In an email to CNBC, Krinsky noted shares of Amazon and Alphabet have soared triple-digit percentages in the last few years — Amazon is up 300 percent in the last five years, and Alphabet has gained 200 percent in the same time — so he believes "picking the next one to get the last 5-6% is not exactly going out on a limb."
In the options market, current pricing implies a roughly 27 percent chance that Amazon will touch $1,000 in the next month; meanwhile, Alphabet options imply a 12 percent chance that Alphabet will hit quadruple digits in that time. The higher odds for Amazon make sense insofar as the stock is not only closer to $1,000, but also tends to be more volatile (and thus is seen as more likely to experience large moves to the upside or the downside).
Interestingly, the most bullish price target for both of the stocks, per FactSet data, is $1,250 — Susquehanna and Wedbush are tied for highest target on Amazon, and Deutsche Bank holds the highest rating for Alphabet. All but 10 analysts of the 45 who cover Amazon, per data available on FactSet, give Amazon a price target of $1,000 or more. Meanwhile, all but nine analysts give Alphabet a target of $1,000 or more.
When considering the stocks' respective valuations, Alphabet appears more attractive than Amazon at this juncture, said Washington Crossing Advisors portfolio manager Chad Morganlander.
"We view this company as growth at the right pace," Morganlander wrote in an email Monday to CNBC.
"We do like Amazon's business model," but would choose Alphabet as a better value pick, based upon its expected earnings per share for 2018 and forecasted revenue for that year — which are $40.13 and $103 billion, per FactSet.
Amazon, meanwhile, is expected to earn $11.81 per share on $201 billion of revenue in 2018.
—CNBC's Alex Rosenberg contributed reporting.
A daily morning look at the financial stories you need to know to start the day.
STOCKS/ECONOMY
-Stock futures are mixed after Monday's modest close. The two-day Fed meeting begins today and we'll also get the April auto sales numbers.
-The Atlanta Federal Reserve bank projects the U.S. economy will grow a robust 4.3 percent this quarter.
MOVING AMERICA
-United CEO Oscar Munoz will testify at a Congressional hearing today about overbooking practices.
Check out which companies are making headlines before the bell:
Merck — The drugmaker reported adjusted quarterly profit of 88 cents per share for the first quarter, five cents a share above estimates. Revenue exceeded Street forecasts, boosted by surging demand for its cancer drug Keytruda, and Merck also raised its full-year outlook.
Pfizer — Pfizer earned an adjusted 69 cents per share for the first quarter, coming in two cents a share above estimates. The pharmaceutical company's revenue fell short of analysts' estimates, but its full-year outlook falls within the range of current Street forecasts.
Aetna — The insurance company reported adjusted quarterly profit of $2.71 per share, beating estimates of $2.37 a share. Revenue beat forecasts, as well. Aetna reported an overall loss due to costs associated with the termination of its deal to merge with Humana, but said its business got off to a strong 2017 start.
Hilton — The hotel operator came in 10 cents a share above estimates, with adjusted quarterly profit of 38 cents per share. Revenue was above forecasts and the company raised its full-year guidance, as customers book more rooms at higher prices.
Becton Dickinson — The medical supplies company beat estimates by seven cents a share, with adjusted quarterly profit of $2.30 per share. Revenue was also slightly above estimates.
Advanced Micro Devices — The chipmaker matched Wall Street estimates with a quarterly loss of four cents per share. Revenue matched, as well. AMD did give strong current-quarter revenue guidance, but investors are expressing concerns over profit margin forecasts.
Coach — The handbag and accessories maker earned an adjusted 46 cents per share for its latest quarter, two cents a share above estimates. Revenue fell somewhat short of expectations. The bottom line, however, was helped by a reduction in discounting.
Mosaic — The fertilizer producer came in 15 cents a share below estimates, with adjusted quarterly profit of four cents per share. Revenue also missed forecasts. Mosaic was hurt as phosphate and potash prices fell, and a plant outage also impacted results.
CVS Health — The drugstore operator and pharmacy benefits manager beat estimates by seven cents a share, with adjusted quarterly profit of $1.17 per share. Revenue beat forecasts. Profit did drop from a year earlier on fewer filled prescriptions and lower front-end sales.
Altria — The tobacco products company fell a penny a share shy of estimates, with quarterly profit of 73 cents per share. Revenue also fell short of the Street's outlook. Altria said its smokeable products segment did well, but there were negative effects from a voluntary smokeless product recall, as well as from its beer-related investments.
Texas Roadhouse — Texas Roadhouse beat estimates by three cents a share, with adjusted quarterly profit of 61 cents per share. The restaurant chain's revenue also beat forecasts. Same-restaurant sales topped estimates for both company-owned and franchised locations.
Tenet Healthcare — Tenet lost an adjusted 27 cents per share for its latest quarter, smaller than the 51 cents a share Wall Street was expecting. The hospital operator's revenue was essentially in line with forecasts. The hospital operator gave upbeat guidance for the current quarter and the full year, and said it would sell three hospitals in Houston to rival HCA .
United Continental — The airline is in the spotlight today, with Chief Executive Officer Oscar Munoz scheduled to testify before the House Transportation Committee on the widely publicized recent incident in which a passenger was dragged off a flight.
Twitter — Twitter struck a deal with the Women's National Basketball Association to stream 20 games per year over the next few seasons.
BP — BP reported first-quarter profit that nearly tripled from a year earlier, beating analysts' forecasts, thanks to higher oil prices and an increase in output.
AstraZeneca — The drugmaker won Food and Drug Administration approval for the use of its immunotherapy drug durvalumab as a treatment for bladder cancer.
Infosys  — Infosys announced plans to hire 10,000 U.S. workers in the next two years. The India-based IT services firm will also open four new U.S. technology centers.
Morgan Stanley — Morgan Stanley is cutting commissions on trades involving stocks, exchange-traded funds, and annuities, capping them at 2.5 percent of the trade's value.
Angie's List — The company will be bought by IAC, which will combine the consumer review site with its HomeAdvisor unit and spin the combination out into a new publicly traded company. The stock deal values Angie's List at $8.50 per share, 44 percent above Monday's closing price.
Microsoft — Microsoft executive Julie Larson-Green is pulling back on her duties for health reasons, according to The Information. She had once been considered a possible successor to former CEO Steve Ballmer, but will now take on the role of "chief experience officer."
Coach's strategy to cut back on discounting its products in the U.S. is paying off and finally showing up in the handbag maker's bottom line.
With Wall Street encouraged by the improved performance and possibility the company could start to shift from turnaround mode to growth mode, and expand through acquisitions, the company's shares closed up more than 11 percent Tuesday.
Earlier, Coach reported a better-than-expected quarterly profit. Coach has pulled out of more than 250 department stores, as lower foot traffic in malls has required the company to realign its resources, focus more on e-commerce and increase efforts to attract the millennial shopper.
The luxury retailer reported earnings of 46 cents a share, excluding items, on sales of $995 million for the third quarter. Analysts were expecting Coach to post earnings per share of 44 cents on sales of $1.019 billion, according to Thomson Reuters consensus estimates.
Coach's decision "to elevate the Coach brand's positioning in the North American wholesale channel through a reduction in promotional events and door closures" is the reason for the revenue miss, the company explained.
The company also reaffirmed its full-year profit and revenue forecast, implying Coach's turnaround efforts will carry forward into the remainder of the year.
"In a volatile and complex global environment, we delivered continued positive comparable store sales for the Coach brand in North America and gross margin expansion in each segment, while tightly controlling costs," CEO Victor Luis said in a statement.
"Despite our deliberate pullback in the North America wholesale channel and the impact of calendar shifts, we delivered earnings growth," Luis added.
Coach said its total North American Coach brand sales fell 5 percent to $474 million, from $499 million a year ago. Though North American brick-and-mortar same-store sales — a metric closely watched by Wall Street for retail stocks — rose about 3 percent for the period.
Coach is thought to be exploring acquisitions to further boost its sales. The company made an offer in March to buy rival handbag and accessories maker Kate Spade, but there are other potential bidders, sources have told Reuters.
Coach is also eyeing luxury shoe manufacturer Jimmy Choo, the Telegraph reported last week.
"Now that Coach is on a clear path to recovery we believe it is right for the company to explore options for future growth," GlobalData Retail analyst Neil Saunders said after Tuesday's earnings release.
"Some of this will come from the core brand which has the potential to become more of a lifestyle destination," Saunders wrote. "However, Coach needs to be conservative in this push, if only to avoid the previous pitfalls of ubiquity. ... This is one of the reasons why the company is exploring options to buy other brands."
Saunders said the acquisition of the Kate Spade brand could have a lot of potential for Coach as Kate is "in the early stages of developing its own lifestyle brand and would benefit from Coach's sourcing and distribution expertise, as well as some fresh thinking on the design front."
As for the Jimmy Choo brand, Coach has an advantage there too. Last month, the company hired former Jimmy Choo boss Joshua Schulman as president and CEO of the Coach brand.
As of Tuesday's close, shares of Coach have climbed 23 percent for the year-to-date period, and they are up 4 percent for the past 12 months.
On Tuesday, the stock was the biggest gainer in the S&P 500.
Investors may finally be ready to cut the cord to one of the primary lifelines of the 8-year-old bull market in stocks.
If earnings are the lifeblood of stocks, then share repurchases have been the nutrients on the plate that have kept circulation going. Companies have been aggressively repurchasing their own stock, reducing share count and thus putting upward pressure on the earnings per share equation — the fewer shares, the less profits needed to push EPS higher.
However, the relationship is changing.
After engaging in $4.3 trillion worth of buybacks over the past 10 years and $2.4 trillion during the most recent five-year span, companies have been pulling back. Corporations cut repurchases by 11 percent in 2016 and have slashed them 20 percent so far in 2017 compared with the same period a year ago, according to Goldman Sachs.
Moreover, investors have punished companies that have focused on buybacks and rewarded those focused on dividends. While the bull run has seen dividends increase fairly well, they have not kept up with buybacks. Dividends have grown $2.9 trillion over the past decade and $1.7 trillion over the past five years, according to S&P Dow Jones Indices.
Goldman analysts said the "investor obsession" with buybacks is waning now that the rewards just aren't there.
"Infatuation with buybacks has ended for both companies and investors," David Kostin, Goldman's chief U.S. equity strategist, said in a note to clients. "Experience shows that firms repurchasing shares at extremely high valuations regret those actions when the stock price inevitably de-rates."
The "Fast Money" traders shared their first moves for the market open.
Tim Seymour was a buyer of the iShares MSCI Malaysia ETF.
Brian Kelly was a buyer of Wal-Mart.
Steve Grasso was a buyer of Square.
Guy Adami was a buyer of Twitter.
Trader disclosure: On May 1, 2017 the following stocks and commodities mentioned or intended to be mentioned on CNBC's "Fast Money" were owned by the "Fast Money" traders:  Tim Seymour is long ABX, AAPL, APC, AVP, BAC, BBRY, C, CLF, CVX, DO, DVYE, EDC, EWN, EWZ, F, FB, FCX, FXI, GM, GOOGL, GE, INTC, LQD, MAT, MOS, MCD, MUR, OIH, PG, RACE, RAI, RH, RL, SINA, SQ,T, TWTR, VALE, VRX, VZ, XOM. short: EEM, SPY, XRT; Tim's firm is long ABX, BABA, BIDU, CBD, CLF, EEM, EWZ, F, KO, MCD, MPEL, NKE, PEP, PF, TCEHY, SAVE, SBUX, SINA, VALE, VIAB, WMT, WEN, X, YHOO, short EWG, HYG, IWM. Brian Kelly is long Bitcoin, FCX, GE, GDX, HLF, IWM, TLT, TSLA, WMT. Guy Adami is long CELG, EXAS, GDX, INTC, Guy Adami's wife, Linda Snow, works at Merck. Steve Grasso's firm is long stock AON, BX, CUBA, DIA, F, HES, ICE, KDUS, MAT, MFIN, MJNA, MSFT, NE, RIG, SNAP, SPY, SQBG, TIME, TITXF, UA, WDR, WPX, ZNGA. Grasso is long stock BABA, CHK, EEM, EVGN, GDX, KBH, MJNA, MO, MON, OLN, PHM, SQ, T, TWTR, VRX. Grasso's kids own EFA, EFG, EWJ, IJR, SPY. No Shorts.
Apple is set to report earnings after the bell on Tuesday — and analysts will watch for whether consumers are buying more iPhones than last year, even with a much hyped new model on the horizon.
Wall Street firms rarely come out with sell ratings on the hottest performing stocks. It's even more infrequent for an analyst to get the bearish call right. Goldman's chip analyst Toshiya Hari did both.
Advanced Micro Devices shares opened down 14 percent at Tuesday's market open, a day after its guidance projected weaker-than-expected profits.
Hari on Tuesday reiterated his sell rating on AMD, citing the company's high valuation and aggressive expectations for its new products. On April 6, he initiated on the chip firm with a bearish rating and has one of only two sell ratings on the company out of 27 analysts, according to FactSet.
Since Hari initiated his sell rating, AMD shares are down more than 15 percent through Tuesday's market open.
"AMD reported an in-line 1Q op loss of $0.04 per share and failed to exhibit the 2Q upside the bulls were anticipating," he wrote in a note to clients Tuesday. "We believe the GM [gross profit margin] guide, in particular, was a disappointment as expectations, founded on the launch of Ryzen (desktop CPU) in March, were high into the print."
The analyst said AMD shares are still "priced for perfection" at 33 times his 2019 estimated earnings per share, and he "recommends investors stay cautious." He reduced his 12-month price target on the company to $10.60 from $11, representing 22 percent downside from Monday's close. "AMD stock remains a 'show me' story as the market has, in our view, pre-traded the expected improvement in market share, GMs and ultimately EPS," he wrote.
AMD was one of the market's best performing stocks, with its shares up 20 percent this year through Monday compared with the S&P 500's 7 percent return. The stock is also up 264 percent in the past 12 months versus the market's 15 percent return.The company's 52-week high roughly coincided with the March 2 launch of its new Ryzen line of desktop processors, which disappointed some gamers.
— CNBC's Michael Bloom contributed to this story.
As investors rush to top-performing technology stocks in the peak of earnings season, Jim Cramer looked into their quarters to see what is driving them higher.
Facebook's stock has taken off ahead of its Wednesday earnings report, which worries the "Mad Money" host because the social media giant tends to report artificially weak quarters because of such runs.
Cramer said that part of the reason for Facebook's perceived earnings weakness is CEO Mark Zuckerberg's philosophy: not only does he openly spend to get ahead, but he typically puts his app's users above its advertisers and investors.
"Of course, we know that Zuckerberg's philosophy isn't all that different from Apple's view: you build the best product and user experience and they'll keep coming back and the investors will stay with you," Cramer said. "I'm always surprised that people consider this philosophy such a mystery."
The stay-at-home economy is undoubtedly flourishing, so Jim Cramer turned to one of its biggest benefactors to see how it is staying afloat: online food delivery giant Grubhub.
"Take it from me, the owner of Bar San Miguel in Brooklyn, you never want to do take out if you can avoid it," the "Mad Money" host said. "And delivery? Holy cow, that's a total sin for a restaurant, a dead weight loss given [that] you can't even get a guest to buy a Corona while she waits for her food to go."
Yet those two services have been Grubhub's keys to success, with the company seeing 40 percent year-over-year revenue growth and 21 percent year-over-year daily average user growth in its first quarter earnings report.
Watch the full segment here:
Bitcoin leaped to a fresh record high Tuesday, spurred by a jump in global trading activity.
The digital currency climbed almost 3 percent to an all-time high of $1,442.58 Tuesday, according to CoinDesk. The currency has jumped almost 7 percent in the two days to begin May.
Alex Sunnarborg, a CoinDesk research analyst, pointed to a spike in global trading volume, especially from Japan and its bitFlyer bitcoin exchange.

There seems to be an increasing amount of capital flows into bitcoin from around the globe.
"The biggest driver right now is you're starting to see institutional investors take a keen interest in the entire sector," said Brian Kelly, founder of Brian Kelly Capital, which recently launched a digital assets fund for outside investors.
"I don't think this is hot money. This is real money that's going to sit around and build the new internet,"  Kelly said, citing his conversations with institutions and other investors. He also noted that consensus in the bitcoin community has moved in the last several weeks away from Bitcoin Unlimited — which would split the currency into two coins — and toward an upgrade of the existing system, known as Bitcoin Core.
Analysts also pointed to continued investor interest in other cryptocurrencies such as ethereum that are near record highs, driving further demand. These obscure digital currencies usually must be bought and sold with bitcoin, Sunnarborg said, forcing traders to buy bitcoin.
Bitcoin (2012 - 2017)

Source: CoinDesk
Watch: Bitcoin prices on the rise
By some measures, owning Apple stock will give investors less return than other big tech stocks. Yet the iPhone maker remains the "gold standard" on Wall Street.
Apple's stock is expected to grow less in the next year than Amazon, Alphabet, Facebook and even Microsoft, according to analysts' 12-month price forecasts. And that's after a slew of analysts have already inched their targets higher for Apple.
Of the big five tech stocks, Apple's implied return — that is, the average difference between analysts' target prices and the stock's current price — is lowest.
At $146 apiece, shares of Apple's stock now have a higher price tag than ever, adjusted for a 2014 stock split. Yet Wall Street recommends that investors continue to shell out ever-higher prices for the stock.
Seventy-seven percent of analysts in FactSet recommend buying Apple shares, even as the price per share gets within 5 percent of their May target of $153.86 a share. Twenty-three percent recommend holding the stock — and not a single analyst recommends cashing out and selling the stock, even at its all-time high.
Major averages, led by financial stocks, experienced a sudden drop on Monday after President Donald Trump said during an interview with Bloomberg News that he'd consider breaking up the nation's big banks.
In the immediate aftermath of the comments, Josh Brown pleaded with investors on CNBC's "Halftime Report" to ignore these words, despite the fact that they were coming from the president.
"Stop — please don't make changes to your portfolio based on things that get blurted out," said Brown, CEO of Ritholtz Wealth Management. "Do not trade this news."

The overall market and bank shares would go on to recover those losses about 25 minutes later, seemingly heeding Brown's advice.
"You don't know what's really behind [this statement]," Short Hills Capital Partners founder Stephen Weiss added. "What I will tell you is this: it will take years to break up the big banks, so there's really nothing to worry about now."
Trump's controversial comments come on the same day that he met with leaders of the Independent Community Bankers of America, an advocacy group for small- and mid-market financial institutions.
The Federal Reserve is set to release its next policy statement on Wednesday — and investors who expect to hear hawkish talk from the central bank may be in for a surprise.
Since Emmanuel Macron's strong showing in the first round of the French presidential election, capital markets have been on a risk-on tear, with U.S. 10-year Treasury yields rising nearly 20 basis points off their lows, fed funds futures pricing in a greater than 75 percent chance of a rate hike in June and the U.S. dollar/Japanese yen up sharply from its 2017 lows.
The problem is that the underlying economic picture has not changed. If anything, U.S. data appear to have deteriorated, with Citibank's economic surprise index now in negative territory. Even Monday's economic reports were lackluster at best, with personal income growing at a paltry 0.2 percent in March, while consumer spending printed a big doughnut at 0 percent growth on the month. The much-vaunted pickup in consumer spending is nowhere to be seen.
Tesla hit an all-time high Monday morning, but with the company set to report earnings on Wednesday, the stock's record-setting run isn't yet done, according to technical analyst Todd Gordon of TradingAnalysis.com.
"I really like how the stock's acting into earnings," Gordon said Monday on CNBC's "Trading Nation."
Gordon says the stock is moving higher in a "parallel channel" stretching from December of last year through Tesla's current trading levels. Tesla's 3 percent jump on Monday helped the stock break through what Gordon says is a "$315 resistance," and the trader believes Tesla could rally on earnings to hit the upper line on the channel.
"Looks like if earnings do come out as expected, which is quite strong, you could be moving up towards the upper end around $330 in Tesla," said Gordon.

In order to play for a move higher in the stock, Gordon bought a "call spread" on Tesla that will return maximum profits if the stock closes at or above $325 by the end of the week. Specifically, this entails buying the 320-strike call and selling the 325-strike call, both of which expire on Friday.
April was a record month for Tesla. Not only did the company's shares continue to make record highs, it also surpassed both Ford and General Motors in market capitalization.
So far this year, Tesla stock has surged more than 51 percent.
U.S. crude futures have posted losses for two weeks in a row and are poised to sink again, according to a historical correlation between oil prices and GDP data.
The Commerce Department reported Friday that the U.S. economy grew at a 0.7 percent annual rate in the first quarter, below Wall Street's expectations for 1.2 percent growth.
Weaker-than-anticipated economic growth typically raises concern about energy and fuel consumption, weighing on crude prices. Oil "is the ultimate macroeconomic commodity," in the words of Tom Kloza, global head of energy analysis at Oil Price Information Service.
And a study of oil's moves around economic data shows there's a lot of truth to that.
Since 2001, Commerce's first of three readings on first-quarter gross domestic product undershot forecasts by up to 50 basis points on seven occasions. U.S. benchmark West Texas Intermediate crude traded lower five trading days after these releases 100 percent of the time, according to data crunched with trading analysis technology Kensho.

The median return for WTI over those seven instances was a negative 6.14 percent.
To be sure, historical studies don't always guarantee future results, even ones with a perfect track record. And many economists have dismissed this first reading of economic growth as distorted by seasonal factors and believe it will be revised higher.
But this poor reading comes at a crucial time for crude. A meeting of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries on May 25, where the exporter group will decide whether to extend a six-month coordinated production cut aimed at balancing a global oil oversupply.
De facto OPEC boss Saudi Arabia and other Gulf producers have signaled support for an extension through the second half of 2017. But crude prices have nevertheless slipped from mid-April highs on concerns about weakness in the gasoline market, resurgent U.S. shale oil production and stubbornly high global crude stockpiles.
Signs this week that an OPEC extension is imminent could boost the market. But tepid gasoline demand and the return of sidelined Libyan oil production last week will make it difficult for OPEC to talk up the market in the coming days, according to Kloza.
"It's going to be tough for that PR machine to really get something going before the actual meeting takes place," he told CNBC.
Disclosure: NBCUniversal, parent of CNBC, is a minority investor in Kensho.
JPMorgan told investors to buy financial stocks because of their low valuations and the likelihood of better-than-expected earnings in the coming year."Large bank stocks have been weak recently after seeing outperformance in the months following the elections. Concerns have arisen as to whether any meaningful policy changes will arise," analyst Vivek Juneja wrote in a report to clients Monday. "Large bank stocks are now attractively valued relative to the market."Juneja cited how the sector's price-earnings multiple is now at the lower end of the historical range relative to the S&P 500 during economic recoveries. Banks are trading at 10.8 times 2018 estimated earnings, which is 64 percent of the market's P/E versus the 59 to 75 percent range in the past 25 years during rate hike cycles, according to the analyst. "Longer term, we continue to like the sector … there is nothing in our EPS estimates for changes from the administration and we have one more rate hike in '17, hence these would provide EPS upside," he wrote. Here are four financial stocks that JPMorgan recommended and their price targets.
Oil prices finished last week with another five-day and monthly loss, and WTI crude oil futures remain below $50/barrel on Monday, even as OPEC signaled that it may continue to restrict production during the second half of 2017.
The cartel meets on May 25 to discuss whether to extend the temporary production curbs put in place at the start of the year. Those curbs — a six-month output reduction of 1.2 million barrels per day from OPEC countries and 558,000 barrels per day from a group of non-OPEC countries — were aimed at reducing the enormous glut of inventories that had accumulated during the oil bust of the last couple of years.
Key OPEC sources recently suggested that the cuts are likely to be extended. Kuwait's oil minister, who expects the supply agreement to be renewed for another six months, said that he is satisfied with the compliance from OPEC and non-OPEC countries.
More from ETF.com:The latest win for indexing over activeThe top 10 risks of ETFsThe 3 best ways to invest overseas
All else equal, an extension of the supply reduction agreement is positive news for oil prices. Why then did oil prices fall, and why are oil ETFs — such as the United States Oil Fund (USO), down near-13 percent, and the Energy Select Sector SPDR Fund (XLE), down 10 percent — among the worst-performers this year?
The answer to that question has two parts.
The first is simply that oil prices and energy ETFs already rallied sharply last year in anticipation of reduced supply. From their lows of $26 in early-2016, crude oil prices nearly doubled. At the same time, the energy sector, as measured by the XLE, was the top-performing sector of 2016 with a 28 percent gain.
Thus, the improvement in oil market fundamentals (including the OPEC production cuts, which were first revealed in September), were largely baked into prices by the end of 2016.
The second reason oil prices and energy ETFs are struggling is that the oil market rebalancing that OPEC is attempting to hasten is being delayed by rising U.S. production.
The Energy Information Administration reported that last week, U.S. output of crude oil climbed to 9.3 million barrels per day, the highest level since Aug. 2015 and up 800,000 barrels per day from where it was as recently as October.

That puts U.S. production on track to surpass the 30-year highs of 9.6 million barrels per day reached in 2015.
Two signals about the strength of consumer spending appear to be sending very different messages.
On one hand, the consumer discretionary sector was the best-performing sector in April (and the second-best sector year to date); on the other, the consumer spending figure reported Friday was quite weak, with the Bureau of Economic Analysis announcing that personal consumption declined quarter over quarter in its advance estimate of first-quarter economic growth.
The seemingly crisscrossing message can be explained by separating the report's real, inflation-adjusted consumer spending figure from companies' earnings within the consumer discretionary sector, said Samuel Rines, senior economist and portfolio strategist at Avalon Advisors.
Friday's report showed the consumer slowed in inflation-adjusted terms, but companies report earnings on nominal sales — and retailers' sales have improved year over year even as sentiment around the group is rather negative, Rines wrote to CNBC in an email Sunday.
"The first quarter was not outstanding for retail sales in general, but the Census Bureau's monthly retail sales report shows sales (without adjusting for inflation) gaining about 5 percent from a year ago," Rines wrote.
Earnings are indeed expected to pick up, according to Erin Gibbs, equity chief investment officer at S&P Global.
Consumer discretionary stocks as a whole should see a "significant ramp up" throughout the rest of the year as earnings are expected to improve for the sector, Gibbs, wrote to CNBC in an email Friday. Furthermore, the sector's valuations have also risen from 20 times forward earnings to 20.6 forward earnings for the month of April alone.
"I see this as a sign of investors looking ahead and more promising return for later in 2017," Gibbs wrote.
Digging one level deeper, a few stocks have had outsized effects on the sector this year, with online retail giant Amazon being the most prominent. Home Depot and Comcast (parent company of NBCUniversal and CNBC) have also been big contributors.
The sector could benefit from rising real wage growth, Miller Tabak equity strategist Matt Maley noted.
"Real average hourly earnings have actually been coming down for the last two years, but in March they bounced nicely. If that bounce can continue, that should bode very well for consumer spending," because they are highly correlated.

The headline GDP figure released Friday reflected that the U.S. economy grew at its weakest pace in three years.
Rines expects a slight upward revision to the first quarter's reported consumption figure (0.3 percent), which he said could rise to 0.5 percent, with a return to the trend in the second quarter of around 2 percent as inflation pressures abate.
Copper prices suddenly surged to a near one-month high Monday morning, but several on Wall Street were uncertain about exactly what caused the spike.
Copper futures for July delivery briefly leaped more than 2.5 percent around 9:31 a.m. EDT, hitting $2.6945 a pound, their highest since April 5. Copper traded about 2.3 percent higher as of 10:45 a.m.
It was the kind of move that typically comes when a single big piece of news hits, but traders were scratching their heads.
Copper intraday performance Monday

"I can't see any [headline] in particular," said Dane Davis, commodities research analyst at Barclays. He noted that a strike was set to begin Monday at Freeport-McMoRan's Grasberg mine in Indonesia and a weaker U.S. dollar supported copper's move higher.
Thousands of workers at the world's second-largest copper mine staged a rally on Monday ahead of a planned monthlong strike to protest layoffs, a union leader said in a Reuters report.
The U.S. dollar index traded slightly lower on the day.
Low trade volume was also a likely factor behind the commodity's jump. Key copper trading markets in London and Shanghai were closed Monday for a holiday.
Eric Hunsader, founder of Nanex, first pointed out the move in a Tweet:

"The fact that it stayed high tells me something's happening, there's some news," he told CNBC. "This is sudden."
Copper rose 2.76 percent last week ahead of Monday's spike.
— Reuters contributed to this report.
The old "sell in May and go away" investing strategy has worked most times, but it might not this year.
Since 1950, the S&P 500 has performed even better during the summer months when it begins May in an uptrend like it is now, according to data compiled by analysts at Strategas.
In this case, Strategas defines an uptrend as the S&P trading above its 10-month moving average.

Source: Strategas
Another factor indicating an upward trend in the market is the NYSE advance-decline line, which hit a new high last week, indicating broad participation.
"The calendar is less supportive over the next number of months, but seasonal weakness is often more pronounced in downtrends vs. uptrends," Strategas said in a Monday note.
Historically, May through September has not been the best period for U.S. equities proving the simple adage correct. Since 1950, the S&P's average monthly gain for May is just 0.2 percent and has averaged slight losses in August and September, Strategas' data show.
The benchmark index has also averaged a flat monthly performance in June and a 1 percent gain in July.
For Erin Gibbs, equity chief investment officer at S&P Capital IQ, fundamental factors may determine the success of the “sell in May” strategy.
“On average, the market does tend to be down during the summer months — but what’s going on in the U.S. economy really does make a difference," Gibbs said Friday on CNBC’s “Trading Nation.”
That is to say, when macroeconomic indicators like the consumer price index, the ISM manufacturing index and consumer confidence indexes are moving higher, “you are likely to have positive returns in the summer months.”
“Now that everything is positive, I’d say, stay in the market,” Gibbs concluded.
Some have more philosophical reasons for saying the well-worn rhyme is “absolutely not good investment advice,” as Miller Tabak equity strategist Matt Maley did Friday on “Trading Nation.”
It’s not just that the advice hasn’t worked out in many recent years; when making investment decisions, “you have to look at the fundamentals, or even the technicals,” Maley said. “You’ve got to look at what’s really going on in the market at any given time, and not at turning the page on the calendar. “
The S&P entered May trading at 2,384.20, just 0.7 percent away from its all-time high of 2,400.98. The index has also gained more than 6 percent this year.
S&P 500 year to date

Source: FactSet
Finally some good news for Twitter investors.
The stock closed up more than 6 percent on Monday after CEO Jack Dorsey said he bought 574,000 shares of the companylate Friday afternoon for about $9.5 million. Dorsey has purchased about 1 million shares to date in 2017.
The company also announced a partnership with Bloomberg on Monday to launch a streaming video channel running 24 hours a day, seven days a week. That news was first announced by The Wall Street Journal.
Bloomberg's and Twitter's streaming news network will be created just for the platform. The two previously worked together to livestream the presidential debate in September. Advertising revenue was split from video ads that ran during Bloomberg's pre- and post-debate coverage. Twitter will reveal more about its streaming video plans during its first Digital Content NewFront presentation in New York on Monday evening.

Check out which companies are making headlines before the bell:
Dish Network — The satellite TV company earned 76 cents per share for its latest quarter, 7 cents above estimates. However, revenue was below forecasts, and the company also reported that broadband and net pay-TV subscribers declined.
Newell Brands — The consumer products maker was downgraded to market perform from outperform at Wells Fargo, which points to a difficult U.S. macroeconomic environment, lower than expected first-quarter earnings and exposure to the pressured shopping-mall market.
Dunkin' Brands — The restaurant chain was upgraded to outperform from sector perform by RBC, which notes the potential for cash being returned to shareholders, among other positive factors.
Twitter — CEO Jack Dorsey bought 574,000 more shares of the company, according to an SEC filing. Dorsey has now purchased 1 million Twitter shares this year.
Cardinal Health — The drug distributor reported adjusted quarterly profit of $1.53 per share, 7 cents above estimates, though revenue came in somewhat below Street forecasts. The company did give a full-year earnings outlook that falls largely above consensus forecasts.
Valeant Pharmaceuticals — The drugmaker announced that it has scaled down its debt load by an additional $220 million, after the sale of three skincare brands closed earlier than anticipated.
Fitbit — The fitness device maker responded to reports that one of its devices had exploded, saying a third party firm had tested the device and concluded that the Fitbit Flex 2 in question did not malfunction. The company said the test showed that external forces caused damage.
BHP Billiton — BHP shareholders in Australia will be meeting with activist investor Elliott Management this week, according to Reuters, as the firm pushes for changes at the world's biggest mining company.
Las Vegas Sands , Wynn Resorts — Casino revenue in Macau rose 16.3 percent in April, near the high end of analyst estimates, possibly boosting stocks of companies that operate casinos there.
Tribune Media — Tribune now has a possible additional suitor. The Wall Street Journal is reporting that 21st Century Fox is joining the fray in partnership with Blackstone. Sinclair Broadcast Group and Nexstar Media are also said to be in the bidding for the TV station operator, with final bids due this Thursday.
Western Digital — Jefferies downgraded the hard-drive maker to hold from buy, saying Western Digital's outlook is already "as good as it gets" and that its upbeat prior quarter and guidance are reflected in the stock's price.
UPS — UPS air maintenance workers say they will seek clearance to strike if a three-year contract dispute is not resolved. The union representing the works is taking its case directly to shareholders, running an ad ahead of Thursday's annual meeting.
Caterpillar — Caterpillar got a bullish mention in this weekend's Barron's, which said the heavy equipment maker's shares could rise another 20 percent this year. The paper said Caterpillar could be the best-positioned company in the U.S. to benefit from President Donald Trump's agenda.
Alphabet — The company's Google unit plans to challenge amended tax assessments in Australia, although it did not specify how much the country is demanding.
Ocwen Financial — Ocwen has been sued by the state of Massachusetts, which claims that the mortgage servicing company has engaged in abusive practices. Ocwen said it was reviewing the charges and that it intends to vigorously defend itself.
Anthem — Anthem said it was evaluating its options after an appeals court upheld a lower court decision blocking its proposed merger with fellow health insurer Cigna .
Coach — The luxury goods maker is considering a bid for shoemaker Jimmy Choo, according to Britain's Telegraph newspaper. Coach failed in an attempt to buy Burberry last year.
Walgreens — Walgreens is reportedly trying to force the FTC's hand in its attempt to win approval for the planned purchase of rival drug store chain Rite Aid. The New York Post reports that Walgreens is expected to give notification that it has supplied regulators with all the information they need to decide on a deal. Such an action kicks off a 90-day period in which the FTC must either approve the deal, or file suit to block it.
AmerisourceBergen — The drug distributor announced a new five-year deal with pharmacy benefit management company Express Scripts to supply pharmaceuticals for Express Scripts customers. A prior deal between the two was set to expire this September.
A daily morning look at the financial stories you need to know to start the day.
STOCKS/ECONOMY
-Stock futures are higher as we begin a busy week with airline hearings and Apple earnings Tuesday, the Fed meeting and Facebook earnings Wednesday and the April jobs report Friday.
-Chinese manufacturing grew in April, but by less than expected.
CAPITOL GAMES
-Congress and the White House have reached a deal to keep the government funded through September. The stopgap bill does not include funding for a border wall or action against so-called "sanctuary cities." And President Donald Trump and GOP leaders in Congress are pushing for a vote on their Obamacare replacement bill this week.
Closely followed strategist Bob Doll told CNBC on Monday that for the first time in eight years he's saying it's time to make investments beyond U.S. equities.
"If you're fortunate enough, lucky enough, smart enough ... do some dollar cost averaging outside the U.S.," the Nuveen Asset Management chief equity strategist said on "Squawk Box." "It's not instead of the U.S. It's in addition."
Doll's comment came as strong corporate earnings have kept the U.S. equity market at or near record levels despite weak economic data and sluggish consumer spending.
Stocks posted sharp rallies last week as earnings season continued to show strong performances from top companies.
U.S. equities closed lower on Friday, however, after the Commerce Department said gross domestic product increased at only a 0.7 percent annual rate in the first quarter, the weakest performance since the first quarter of 2014.
Growth in consumer spending braked to a 0.3 percent rate in the quarter. That was the slowest pace in nearly eight years and followed the fourth quarter's robust 3.5 percent growth rate.
U.S. stock futures pointed to a higher open on Monday after an agreement to avoid a federal government shutdown.
—Reuters contributed to this report.
So far this earnings season, the less a U.S. company is exposed to America, the better its results.
S&P 500 companies that generate more than half their revenue overseas are posting first-quarter earnings growth of 19.9 percent on average, double that of companies that conduct most of their business domestically, according to FactSet. About 60 percent of the S&P 500 has reported results.
That helps explain the gap between the strong quarterly results and sluggish economic data like Friday's report showing U.S. GDP increased at just 0.7 percent in the first quarter, its slowest pace in three years. In fact, a CNBC analysis found that the difference between earnings per share growth and gross domestic product expansion in the first quarter is the widest since the third quarter of 2011.
"We're seeing some pickup in growth that's outside the U.S. that's being reflected in these earnings numbers," said Nick Raich, CEO of The Earnings Scout, pointing out that "the U.S. data is domestic focused."
Investors should buy Dunkin' Brands shares because the company's earnings next year will come in above current expectations, according to RBC Capital Markets, which upgraded the Dunkin' Donuts-owner to outperform from sector perform. "We are increasing our target to $64 and upgrading Dunkin … largely based on our outlook for improving franchisee profitability and improved long-term unit and EPS growth," analyst David Palmer wrote in a note to clients Monday. "In addition, we see upside from potential cash back to shareholders — either through accelerated buybacks or a higher dividend payout."
The company currently has a 2.3 percent dividend yield, according to FactSet.
Upon the release of BioMarin's orphan drug Brineura, which made headlines for its $702,000-per-year price tag, chairman and CEO JJ Bienaimé said the system will have the final say on whether the sky-high price is fair.
"Obviously, the system will have to determine that," he told "Mad Money" host Jim Cramer on Friday. But I would say that CLN2, the disease that Brineura is being used for, is an absolutely devastating neurodegenerative disorder for which, unfortunately, the patients will lose their life, most of the time by [age] 12."
CLN2, also known as Batten disease, affects between 1,200 and 1,500 patients worldwide, with 20 new patients a year in the United States.
Watch the full segment here:
As the busiest week of earnings season came to a close, Jim Cramer breathed a sigh of relief despite Friday's mild pullback caused by a weaker-than-expected GDP number.
The "Mad Money" host said that with the federal government funded through the next week, investors can finally relax and gear up for yet another earnings-filled agenda.
With that in mind, here are the stocks and events on Cramer's radar this coming week:

Monday: Advanced Micro Devices, Cardinal Health
Advanced Micro Devices: After shares of competitor Intel slid on its earnings miss on Thursday, Cramer is unsure that even the best of earnings reports from this chipmaker will garner a positive market reaction.
"As I have repeatedly said, there is nothing wrong with the company AMD," Cramer said. "What can I say? The market's fallen out of love with last year's darlings."
Cardinal Health: Once the health care services company reports earnings, Cramer thinks investors will start to notice its monumental acquisition of part of Medtronic's business, which will make it a more streamlined hospital supplier.
Tuesday: CVS Health, Mastercard, Apple
CVS: The health care retailer's stock has been under pressure lately as even pharmacies are squeezed by the rise of Amazon, but Cramer says there could be a hidden upside to earnings.
"All that said, it's hard to really dislike a well run company like this that sells at just 13 times earnings. I say wait and see. Maybe numbers come down, maybe that's your chance," the "Mad Money" host said.
Mastercard: Other payment services names like Visa and PayPal have reported great numbers this quarter, so Cramer expects a good report from Mastercard as well.
"Here's one where you might want to see if the stock gets hit after it reports so you can come in at a lower price," he said. "That's been the pattern with the stock of this amazing company. It might be a great way to get in on a trend that still has a lot of room to run: the paper to plastic secular growth story."
Apple: Expectations are sky-high for the tech titan's after-the-bell earnings report, and Cramer thinks they are justified.
"Apple's doing so many things right. It's making the best products, developing a deep ecosystem with a substantial service revenue stream," he said.
Plus, Apple's upcoming iPhone release is rumored to have an array of new features that makes the smartphone more functional and easier to handle, which should boost sales and new customer numbers, Cramer said.
The company also stands to massively benefit from repatriation if the administration is able to implement it. All said and done, Cramer says investors should own the stock, not trade it, and eager buyers should hope for a post-earnings dip so they can buy it at a discount.
Wednesday: Sprint, Facebook, Kraft Heinz
Sprint: Cramer likes the stock of this telecommunications player, which will report its quarterly earnings Wednesday morning, but the "Mad Money" host is concerned that it may just be pushing along instead of really growing.
T-Mobile CEO John Legere told Cramer he may be open to buying Sprint, but antitrust issues may stand in the way of a merger or acquisition, Cramer warned.
"Any merger would lessen the competition for something that's become a modern day necessity," he said. "You really have to own these for fundamentals, not potential deals, and if that's the case, T-Mobile remains best of breed."
Facebook: The social media colossus reports earnings after the bell, and unless its numbers are substantially better, Cramer expects a slight sell-off.
"I like how competitive Facebook is," the "Mad Money" host said. "If you don't own it now, I think you might as well wait to see if we get that kind of weird sell-off that we usually get even after it reports a great number."
Kraft Heinz: Investors will be tuned into the consumer goods name when it reports because it always seems to be on the lookout for a takeover candidate despite botching its proposal to buy Unilever last quarter.
Cramer prefers Unilever's stock, but said that if Kraft Heinz floats the idea of a deal, it could get a boost.
"We know, though, it takes two to tango, and I'm hard pressed to see who would possibly want to sell in that consumer packaged goods industry as the remaining players seem to have no inclination to let go of the reins," Cramer said.
Thursday: Dunkin' Donuts, Activision Blizzard
Dunkin' Donuts: Cramer contended that this coffeemaker, which will report earnings Thursday, "has quietly become a better investment than Starbucks over the last year, going from $46 to $55, while Starbucks has only traveled up four points."
The "Mad Money" host credited the company's execution for the rise, saying that it has outperformed Starbucks in terms of stemming the U.S. slowdown.
Activision Blizzard: The gaming sector is one of Cramer's favorite secular growth stories in the stay-at-home economy, and Activision Blizzard's earnings reports have a tendency to spur selling.
"I say the trend's your friend," Cramer said. "This franchise is worth buying if it gets hit."
Friday: Non-farm payrolls
The Labor Department will release its monthly non-farm payroll data. The hiring statistics could have a detrimental effect on bank stocks if they are low, but Cramer expects the opposite.
"If April turns out to have been a robust hiring month, and I think it will be, that gives the Fed breathing room to raise interest rates twice, and therefore the bank stocks will soar," he said.
So with Washington policymakers at bay for now and the market digesting this week's madness, Cramer said to focus on the stocks that get unjustly beaten down for chances to buy high quality names next week.
"This week we have a couple of stocks that tend to act badly after they report. Those are your best bets for investments. Otherwise, get ready for still one more opportunity to buy some Apple stock as Wall Street's naysayers try to say its best days are behind it. But, of course, they say that to each other on their iPhones," the "Mad Money" host said.
Watch the full segment here:
Infrastructure stocks have gotten a big boost after President Donald Trump's election, but the run is "not even beginning," billionaire value investor Mario Gabelli told CNBC on Friday.
Trump has promised to spend $1 trillion to upgrade America's infrastructure.
"Infrastructure is important because it helps fiscal stimulation, it offsets monetary policy, it helps the jobs in the middle of the country, it helps everyone," the chairman and CEO of Gamco Investors said in an interview with "Power Lunch."
"We like everyone that has this ecosystem."
He specifically likes CNH Industrial, which designs, produces and sells construction equipment. He sees it going up to $20 a share in the next 3 to 4 years.
Gabelli also likes "anything to do with water," such as Mueller Water Products, which has a new CEO and is a "work in progress."
And with an electric grid that needs to be reinforced, he'd buy some utility companies.
Disclaimer
Disclosures: Gabelli owns CNH Industrial and Mueller Water Products in his funds.
Wall Street has high expectations for Amazon and Google's parent company, Alphabet, after they reported great earnings.
Analysts now expect the tech investors' cult favorites to hit $1,000 a share over the next 12 months, according to the average price forecast collected by FactSet.
The average price 12-month price target for Amazon is $1,049.23 a share and Alphabet's totals $1,031.36. Alphabet and Amazon both hovered around $930 during Friday trading. A month ago the Wall Street targets for both were below $1,000.
GoPro stock skidded Friday, a day after the wearable camera company reported disappointing data on shipments, but CEO Nick Woodman said the market is "far from saturated."
The company reported Thursday that shipments fell to 730,000 units in the first quarter. Wall Street was expecting 805,000, according to StreetAccount.
The company also reported:
The shipment figure represents a roughly 45 percent decline from what GoPro shipped in the comparable quarter in 2015. At the time, it had been the company's third-consecutive quarter in which it had shipped more than 1 million devices.
The stock was down more than 6 percent Friday afternoon.
In an interview on CNBC's "Squawk Alley," Woodman said company data show that "a very large percentage" of customers who bought the company's new Hero 5 camera had never owned a GoPro product before.
He said the company has shifted its focus to its premium products, contributing to a 13 percent year-over-year increase in the average selling price of GoPro products.
He hopes that the strategy will help return the company to profitability.
"We have a very strong product roadmap both in hardware and in software," Woodman said. "Consumers and investors should expect continued innovation and terrific solutions from GoPro going forward."
Last month, the company cut 270 jobs.
Woodman said he doesn't anticipate additional layoffs.
The markets are near historic highs, and earnings are rebounding nicely. There is one fly in the ointment: Energy stocks, which as a group are down more than 10 percent this year. This, while the S&P 500 is up almost 7 percent.
It wasn't supposed to be this way. This was supposed to be the "Year of the Turnaround" for big oil, but it's not turning out like that.
The spoiler are the commodities: oil down 9 percent year-to-date, and natural gas down 12 percent. The global energy market is undergoing a massive transition, from a Middle East focus to a North American focus. It's a huge help to consumers, and a headache for big oil.
The result: the investor love affair with Energy, so evident toward the end of last year, is over. Oil stocks don't just lose on a fundamental level, they lose as a relative value play. Think about it: you have the rest of the market at or near historic highs, with energy stocks the worst performing group year to date.
Take ExxonMobil, which reported earnings this morning. The good news: they beat earnings expectations, and overall earnings more than doubled, from $1.8 billion a year ago to $4.0 billion in the first quarter of this year.
They doubled largely because oil prices improved, from roughly $31 a barrel average in the first quarter of 2016 to roughly $51 a barrel in the first quarter of 2017.
Here's the bad news:
1. The price of oil is trending down.
2. Capital and exploration expenditures are down 19 percent from a year ago.
3. Production is down: on an oil-equivalent basis, production decreased 4 percent from the first quarter of 2016.
Bottom line: they are getting less for oil than the first quarter, and they are producing less of it.
This is one of several reasons oil stocks are trading near their lows for the year.
Is it any surprise oil stocks have been for sale for months? Any surprise that every major oil index (XLE, OIH, XOP) are sitting at or near lows for the year? Any surprise investors are now asking, why should I be in oil stocks when the broader market is screaming?
Any surprise that only 3 of 25 analysts tracked by CFRA have a Buy recommendation on ExxonMobil?
How did this happen? Toward the end of last year, the analyst community bought into two ideas: 1) the reflation trade, the idea that global commodity prices would rise as the global economy improved, a bet that looked pretty good when the Trump victory turbocharged the whole idea, and 2) that oil would gradually recover due to OPEC collaboration to cut production and the relentless cutting of capital spending by big oil.
This magic combination was supposed to drive oil to $60 and beyond. With this in hand, analysts handily modeled a turnaround in oil company profits, particularly big oil. Chevron, for example, was going to go from $1.07 in profits in 2016 to $4.72 in 2017, according to Factset.
And Chevron was one of the lucky ones that still made money: most of the smaller companies were still losing money. Lots of it.
In theory, these were not crazy ideas. The global economy was getting better, and commodity prices were rising. And OPEC did cut production, and big oil did indeed cut capital expenditures. A lot: ExxonMobil went from $34 billion in capital spending in 2012 to a projected $18 billion this year.
What screwed the whole thing up, of course, was shale production. Even if OPEC continues to cut, how can oil move up when you have the enormous open faucet that is North American shale?
Here's the irony: big oil is seeing reduced production, but the shale producers are seeing increased production. Big oil is still marginally profitable, but the shale producers, for the most part, are not. Look at Whiting Petroleum: they had good operating results. But they lost money!
So why don't the shale producers just stop producing? You'll notice the rig counts keep going up. Are they just stupid?
No, they are desperate. Here's my old friend Fadel Gheit, oil analyst at Oppenheimer: "Their attitude is, 'We can't control the price, so we might as well keep producing because we desperately need the cash flow.'"
The result? Slow but steady haircuts for big oil. Chevron's expected profits of $4.61 in 2017 have now been whittled down to $4.42, and are still dropping. ExxonMobil, which was expected to make $4.21 in 2017, was at $3.88 last night and still dropping.
Expect them to drop even more.
Is there any hope at all? Sure, the bulls never go away. The big hope is that eventually oil prices will rise again, partly because capital spending keeps lagging. The decline rate requires you to invest large amounts of money to get new oil. No money investing, less production.
What about some good old fashioned M&A play? You notice we are not seeing any of that either? Here's Fadel again: "The bids and asks [between buyers and sellers] have never been wider, because a few years ago we had $110 oil, and last year we had $27 oil. Which is the real price? They can't agree."
Investors should buy Apple shares because of growing optimism over the next iPhone "super cycle," according to Credit Suisse, which reiterated its outperform rating. "Over the course of the next year, we continue to believe that an iPhone 8 super cycle (starting with 3 models, one of which will be OLED [display]) should drive up replacement rates and drive new customers," analyst Kulbinder Garcha wrote in a note to clients Friday. "We continue to highlight a degree of pent up demand from iPhone installed base ahead of the major iPhone 8 super cycle as well as continued strong mix shift towards services."
Shares of U.S. used-auto retailer Carvana fell Friday on its first day of trading at the New York Stock Exchange.
The stock opened trading 10 percent lower at $13.50 a share, below its IPO price of $15. Carvana was last trading down about 14 percent.
Carvana, which was founded in 2012, sells cars through its website and operates automated towers that store cars in U.S. cities such as Austin and Dallas in Texas, and Nashville, Tennessee. Customers can get cars delivered or pick them up from the vending machine-like towers.
You're in an elevator and it starts getting really crowded. You instinctively look over to the conveyance permit for the weight capacity of the lift. You count the number of people and multiply by, say, 150 pounds to see how close it is to capacity.
Pacific Crest lowered its rating on Amazon to sector weight from overweight, citing increasing competition and "moderating" growth rates in its businesses.The company's shares are up 4 percent in Friday premarket trading after it reported better-than-expected first-quarter earnings Thursday after the market close.  "Amazon's 1Q17 results were impressive. However, the stock is approaching our $961 target and stepped-up competition may dampen near-term upside," analyst Edward Yruma wrote in a note to clients Thursday titled "As good as it gets (for now)." "1P [first party] growth rates point to moderating sales growth, and retail competition is intensifying. Nevertheless, we remain constructive long term and would look for a more-attractive entry point," he added. First party represents the e-commerce business where Amazon sells products directly to customers. The internet company also has a third-party business, where other firms can sell goods on Amazon's website.The analyst cited how Amazon's first-party sales grew 16 percent in the first quarter compared to 16 percent in the fourth quarter and 21 percent in 2016's first quarter. In addition, Amazon Web Services [cloud computing] growth slowed in the first quarter to 43 percent from 47 percent in the fourth quarter, while Microsoft's cloud business grew 93 percent in the March quarter. Wall Street downgrades are a rarity for a beloved stock like Amazon. In fact, it hasn't received a downgrade from a major sell-side firm in over a year until Raymond James lowered its rating earlier this week, according to Street Account. Just seven of 40 analysts have hold ratings on the internet retailer, while 33 rate it buy or overweight, according to FactSet. No analysts have a sell rating.The analyst retracted his previous $961 price target for Amazon, which represented 5 percent upside from Thursday's close. He did not provide a new target. Amazon is one of the market's best performing stocks, with its shares up 22.5 percent this year through Thursday compared with the S&P 500's 7 percent return. The stock is also up 53 percent in the past 12 months. "Moderating 1P and 3P trends could be a headwind for revenue and profitability growth. We believe that Walmart's aggressive stance in e-commerce makes it a much more formidable competitor," he wrote.
— CNBC's Michael Bloom contributed to this story.
The stock market is at a critical juncture, and it may be time reduce risk, according to Gluskin Sheff chief economist and strategist David Rosenberg.
The former Merrill Lynch chief economist, who has made the coveted U.S. Institutional Investor All-America All Star Team several times, is out with a warning for investors.
"The reckoning will be which market has the story right: Is it the stock market that is de facto pricing in double-digit earnings growth or is it the Treasury market with the 10-year yield at 2.3 percent?" Rosenberg asked Thursday on CNBC's "Trading Nation." "[The bond market] is really pricing in a completely different nominal GDP growth world."
Rosenberg, who became bullish about six years ago as the U.S. was licking its wounds from the financial crisis, says his money has always been on bonds.
"The bond market is actually reacting to the facts on the ground. The facts on the ground are this: Year-over-year growth on a nominal GDP cycle already peaked at 4.9 percent. We have never before in the post-World War II period ever have seen year over year nominal GDP growth peak below 5 percent. That happened two years ago," he said.
He predicts growth will slow even more as the Federal Reserve resumes its tightening policy.
"[We're] nine years into a cycle where everything is looking late cycle," added Rosenberg.
Yet he acknowledges earnings have been good so far, and President Donald Trump's tax reform package could become a reality — two catalysts that could drive stocks higher.
"Let's make the assumption that this tax proposal goes through. The Fed has already told everybody who's listening that they're raising rates at least another two times this year no matter what," said Rosenberg. "They've already said that if they adjust their GDP forecast based on fiscal stimulus, they will raise rates even more."
Despite being one of the first Wall Street strategists to turn bullish following the financial crisis, Rosenberg has been known as a perma-bear on Wall Street — often getting attacked by his peers for being too negative and this time is no different.
Rosenberg has been telling investors to fade the rally for months.
In mid-September, he warned investors a "perfect storm" correction is coming, and nothing can stop it. He believed a sharp pullback was imminent.
Since then, the S&P 500 and Dow have surged by 12 percent and 16 percent, respectively. And just this week, the Nasdaq broke 6,000 for the first time ever — closing at another record high on Thursday. If the Nasdaq can extend its monthly winning streak to six, it would be its longest stretch in four years.
But it hasn't been all doom and gloom in Rosenberg's forecasts over the past year.
He correctly predicted banks would rally in conjunction with Trump's election win. The S&P financials sector has soared nearly 20 percent since the November results.
Want to be a part of the Trading Nation? If you'd like to call into our live Wednesday show, email your name, number and a question to TradingNation@cnbc.com
Check out which companies are making headlines before the bell:
Qualcomm — The chipmaker's stock dropped about 6 percent before the bell after the company slashed its fiscal third-quarter guidance. Qualcomm said Apple told the firm it's withholding royalty payments as part of an ongoing dispute between the two tech giants.
General Motors — The auto maker's quarterly results easily topped Wall Street's expectations, posting earnings per share of $1.70 on revenue of $41.2 billion. Analysts polled by Reuters expected GM to post earnings of $1.48 per share on sales of $40.752 billion. The automaker posted strong sales in its trucks and SUV segments.
Exxon Mobil — The energy giant posted mixed quarterly results, with earnings per share easily topping expectations while sales missed the mark. Exxon said its international upstream and downstream businesses netted $2.27 billion and $824 million, respectively. Its U.S. upstream and downstream segments posted a loss of $18 million and a net gain of $292 million, respectively.
Alphabet — Google's parent company smashed first-quarter earnings and sales estimates as mobile search and YouTube drove ad sales higher. The firm reported earnings per share of $7.73 on sales of $24.75 billion.
Amazon — Amazon posted better-than-expected quarterly results, with sales jumping 23 percent year over year. Revenue in Amazon Web Services, a key driver for the company, totaled $3.66 billion, matching analyst expectations.
Microsoft — Microsoft reported mixed fiscal third-quarter results, as earnings per share of 73 cents topped expectations while revenue of $23.56 billion missed. Sales in the firm's "more personal computing" segment totaled $8.84 billion, which missed expectations and represented a 7 percent year-over-year decline.
Starbucks — The coffee giant's shares fell more than 4 percent before the bell on the back of weaker-than-expected same-store sales for fiscal second quarter. Starbucks reported comparable store sales growth of 3 percent, below a StreetAccount estimate of 3.7 percent.
Western Digital — Western Digital's stock popped more than 6 percent in the premarket after reporting better-than-expected earnings. The firm's fiscal fourth-quarter guidance also topped Wall Street's expectations.
GoPro — The wearables maker reported a lower-than-expected quarterly loss, helped by strong sales of its flagship cameras and Karma drones. The stock briefly rose more than 7 percent after posting its results, before holding around the flatline.
Synchrony Financial — Synchrony's first-quarter earnings missed expectations by a wide margin, sending the stock reeling more than 7 percent. Synchrony posted earnings per share of 61 cents; analysts polled by Reuters expected the firm post a profit of 73 cents a share.
—Reuters contributed to this report.
A daily morning look at the financial stories you need to know to start the day.

STOCKS/ECONOMY
-Stock futures are flat after Thursday's flat close for the Dow Jones Industrial Average. First quarter GDP numbers come out at 830am Eastern Time and they are expected to show just 0.8 percent economic growth.
-Watch shares of Amazon today after its earnings and revenues far exceeded Wall Street expectations. And Google parent Alphabet also smashed expectations in its earnings report and its shares soared higher in the pre-market.
TERROR/DEFENSE
-President Donald Trump says he wants South Korea to compensate the U.S. in some way for deploying the $1 billion THAAD missile system in that country.  President Trump also says there's a chance the U.S. could get into a major confrontation with North Korea, but he hopes things are settled peacefully.
It's no secret that Wharton School finance professor Jeremy Siegel tends to be a market bull. After all, he may be most famous for penning a classic of popular investment literature, "Stocks for the Long Run."
But after a 12 percent rally in the past six months, and nearly a tripling of the S&P 500 over the past eight years, it is striking to see how just optimistic Siegel still is about the market .
"I actually think we have a Goldilocks situation going on now," he said Thursday on CNBC's "Trading Nation." "We have everything moving in tandem."
For starters, earnings have looked good, Siegel pointed out, adding: "But much more important than that is the maintained or upward guidance for second, third and fourth quarter — something we've not had for years."
In prior years, he said, "it's been stunning how year estimates have come way down by the time we get to December. Now, anything can happen. We're only in April — but it's the first time that I have seen forward guidance maintained or increased since we turned around from the great crisis back in 2009."
That is to say, optimistic estimates of earnings for the rest of 2017 are being maintained. According to data from FactSet, income growth for 2017 is currently predicted at 9.9 percent, just a touch below the 10.8 percent estimate from the end of 2016.
Meanwhile, with about half of S&P 500 companies having reported earnings, investors are looking at profit growth of 11.1 percent, with the bulk of those gains coming from the energy and financial sectors.
The good earnings news comes even as economic growth remains relatively slow. That means inflationary pressures shouldn't force the Federal Reserve to speedily raise rates — hence the not-too-hot, not-too-cold Goldilocks environment.
Still, Siegel is not above sowing self-deprecating cushions of doubt.
The fact that everything looks so good "I guess should make me worried, because we know that that doesn't always persist," he quipped.
Oil fell by as much as 2 percent Thursday, and according to one trader who closely follows the charts, there could be even more pain to come.
"The problem is [oil has] spent a lot of time consolidating around this $52 to $55 area now," Todd Gordon said Thursday on CNBC's "Trading Nation." "So we've been rejected [from a breakout above $55] for probably the fourth time now," said the founder of TradingAnalysis.com
Not only that, but according to Gordon's chart work, oil is running into some technically perilous prices, hitting "uptrend support" levels that had been in place since the middle of last year. Thursday's drop put oil dangerously close to falling below that support level. Technicians often look at support levels as catalysts for moves. Gordon predicts that if oil falls below that level, it could unleash a torrent of additional selling.
"We might see some accelerated selling below about $47 to $47.50," he said.

But aside from the weak technicals in the chart of crude, Gordon also sees weakness in an oil-related market: the oil services stocks. Looking at a chart of the oil services-tracking ETF (OIH), Gordon says that the chart for OIH points to even more downside than that of oil.
"You can see how the rally back in this stock has been less significant than that of the crude oil market," said Gordon. "Further, we've already broken uptrend support, so the oil services are actually outperforming the underlying crude futures on the downside."
In other words, unlike crude, OIH has already broken below the uptrend "support" line that had been in place since January 2015, and OIH could tumble back to its mid-2015 lows at around $25.

Furthermore, Gordon points out two big names in OIH, Schlumberger and Halliburton, whose charts show "head and shoulders" patterns that suggest a move down.
Oil did manage to regain some of its Thursday losses by midafternoon. OIH, however, was still down about 3 percent on the day.
Tidal waves of earnings continue to hit the market, and today, two massive players continued to impress Jim Cramer with their results: Amazon and Google parent Alphabet.
Amazon saw a huge profit jump and beat the Street's earnings estimates by 40 cents while Alphabet's sales surged 22 percent, promising signs for both of the tech giants.
The "Mad Money" host is confident the two can continue to outshine less favorable market trends like the decline of oil prices.
"If oil goes down tomorrow, you will likely see these two buck the trend. In other words, Amazon goes up even if retailers were down, which they were, and Google goes up. Well, let's just say it looks like they just have increasing business in many different elements, not just search," Cramer said.
Samsung Electronics shares hit a record high on Friday after reporting strong earnings a day before, prompting analysts to boost their price target for the stock and forecast never-before-seen profit for the electronics giant.
The South Korean firm saw shares hit 2.29 million Korean won ($2,011) during trade on Friday, breaking a previous record set on Thursday, and closed at 2.23 Korean won.
It comes after Samsung reported a 48 percent year-on-year rise in its first quarter operating profit to 9.9 trillion Korean won, driven by strength in its semiconductor and display division. Samsung also announced plans to cancel existing treasury shares worth over $35 billion by 2018, accepting proposals submitted by activist hedge fund Elliott.
This boosted the company's stock price, and on Friday, a number of analysts upgraded their outlook and forecast record earnings for the full year.
Nomura upped its price target from 2.7 million Korean won to 3.3 million Korean won. This represents the prospect of 48 percent upside from Friday's close. It also said it expects operating profit of 53.2 trillion Korean won for 2017, which if achieved, would be Samsung's highest ever. The previous highest came in 2013 when the company reported full-year operating profit of 36.79 trillion Korean Won.

Nasdaq 100 futures surged after hours Thursday after encouraging earnings from Amazon.com and Google parent Alphabet.
Shares of Amazon.com briefly climbed more than 4 percent in extended trade after reporting earnings per share and revenue well above expectations.
Alphabet shares rose more than 4.5 percent in after-hours trade after posting earnings that also topped expectations on both the top and bottom line.
The Nasdaq composite closed at a record Thursday. The Nasdaq 100 hit a fresh intraday record, but failed to end the day above its record close set on Monday. That shouldn't be a problem Friday if these gains continue when official trading begins.
"These companies have been the gold standard for technology and ... for the broader market," said Quincy Krosby, market strategist at Prudential Financial. "To continue at this pace, economic data is going to have to be stronger overall."
Tech stocks are the top performers in the S&P 500 year-to-date, followed by consumer discretionary, which includes Amazon.
Nasdaq 100 futures Thursday performance

Source: FactSet
Not all big tech stocks rose in after-hours trade.
Microsoft shares dipped about 3 percent in extended trade after revenue missed. Intel shares were more than 3.5 percent lower in extended trade after revenue missed slightly.
Apple, the biggest market-cap stock in the S&P 500, traded little changed in extended hours.
"The focus in the earnings season has definitely been on revenue growth," Krosby said. "Companies that did well, offering a surprise in revenue growth, have been rewarded by the market. Those that [just] meet revenue growth are punished by the market. At these valuations you need to see demand for your product."
Watch: Alphabet reasonably valued relative to growth
The stock market may be pricing in hope about President Donald Trump's agenda, but the bond market hasn't been following suit — creating a disconnect, investment expert Jack Bouroudjian told CNBC on Thursday.
That can be seen with the 10-year Treasury yield "stubbornly" hanging right around 2.3 percent.
"There's some kind of fear that seems to be this black cloud hanging over the marketplace right now," the chief economist for UCX and CNBC contributor said in an interview with "Closing Bell."
He said investors could perhaps be concerned about a repeat of what happened during President Ronald Reagan's term, when the full effects of the 1981 tax cuts weren't seen until 1983.
"This might be a situation where you buy the rumor and you sell the news," said Bouroudjian.
Activist hedge fund manager Dan Loeb, who's more than doubled the S&P 500's return over the last two decades, told investors he doesn't plan on missing out on the final portion of this eight-year bull market and economic expansion, which has been given new life by the euphoria surrounding President Donald Trump's election.
"While we recognize that we are in the late stages of an economic cycle, experience has taught us not to miss the end of an expansive period," the Third Point manager wrote in the letter obtained by CNBC on Thursday. "This is especially true following Trump's election. Animal spirits matter in markets and despite the obstacles that the new administration will face in passing legislation, the overall pro-business environment is in sharp contrast to the last 'you didn't build it' administration's attitude towards business, enterprise, and free markets."
When oil prices sank on Thursday, Jim Cramer took a look at what truly caused the drop and how cheaper oil's "domino effect" could have a sway on investing patterns going forward.
"Oil is what we call a false tell. It's signaling the wrong thing," the "Mad Money" host said. "In fact, its decline acts as a tax cut, further stimulating global growth."
Though oil recovered from its intraday bottom as the decline was rooted in U.S. overproduction rather than softer demand, Cramer said some financiers still jumped to improper conclusions.
Watch the full segment here:
Credit Suisse told investors to buy Cisco shares because the company will thrive under President Donald Trump's tax reform, saying it will enable an increase to its shareholder return program and allow for more strategic acquisitions.
The firm raised its rating on the tech giant two notches to outperform from underperform, a rare "double upgrade."
White House officials revealed on Wednesday President Trump's plan for large tax cuts for repatriated offshore corporate profits and a reduction of the corporate tax rate.  "We believe the possibility of an upcoming repatriation and balanced approach towards M&A [mergers and acquisitions] and capital return could drive [long-term] EPS power," analyst Kulbinder Garcha wrote in a note to clients Thursday. "In an environment of tax reform, we believe the company has the capacity to accelerate the company's transition towards a diversified IT player."Garcha raised his Cisco price target to $40 from $27, representing 20 percent upside from Wednesday's close. The analyst cited how the company has $62 billion cash offshore, which can be "unleashed" under tax repatriation reform. If Trump's tax plan is passed, he estimates Cisco can return an additional $30 billion of capital to shareholders during the next five years and use another $20 billion for "transformative" mergers and acquisitions. "The combination of a potential buyback … combined with accretion from M&A, has the capacity to drive Cisco EPS materially higher in the coming years," he wrote. Cisco will report fiscal third quarter financial results on May 17.
U.S. oil prices fell below $49 a barrel on Thursday amid deteriorating gasoline futures and a higher dollar in the wake of the European Central Bank's latest interest rate decision. Benchmark Brent and U.S. crude futures both fell more than 2 percent in late morning trade, extending losses to drop below their 200-day moving averages. Both contracts have fallen in 6 of the last 8 sessions, with only moderate gains on positive days.

The decline accelerated after the ECB left interest rates at zero percent, nudging the dollar higher. A stronger greenback makes dollar-denominated commodities like oil more expensive to holders of other currencies, discouraging buying.
News that Libya had restarted two of its main oil fields after protests also added to selling pressure. Libya is one of two exporters exempt from OPEC's production cuts aimed at reducing a global oversupply of oil.
That compounded weakness in the energy complex after the U.S. government reported a large build in gasoline inventories as refiners pumped a record amount of crude into facilities last week. This comes amid relatively weak gasoline demand.
When asked if stocks are overvalued, Nobel laureate Robert Shiller supplies a simple answer: "yes." But that doesn't mean equities are set to dive.
Evidence that stocks may be richly priced is easy to find. Shiller's cyclically adjusted price-to-earnings ratio, which compares the current value of equities to inflation-adjusted earnings over the past 10 years, is at levels not seen except for the years surrounding 1929 and 2000. And at 29, the ratio is higher than its highest level before the Great Recession.

Still, Shiller makes it clear this doesn't necessarily suggest that investors should sell stocks.
"I'm not saying pull out of the market — I'm saying that it looks dangerous now," the Yale economics professor said Wednesday on CNBC's "Trading Nation." "But it could keep going up."
After all, "if you go back to 1998, you'll find that the CAPE ratio was about the same as now, and it kept going up for two more years. It got up to something like 45 in the year 2000. So we could go back up there. And we're in an oddball-enough mood now that we might," Shiller said, referring to excitement surrounding President Donald Trump.
"The magic of the Trump story is that it gets stronger than any other news. It pushes everything else aside, partly business people identify with Trump [and have] an urge to gamble on this guy," he told CNBC in a phone interview.
While Trump is rarely likened to the man known as "Silent Cal," Shiller finds the historical comparison useful.
"I'm reminded of Calvin Coolidge, who become president in 1923, and the market started going up, and there were people saying that valuation ratios were getting too high — for years! Eventually, as you may have heard, it crashed."
A further rally followed by a crash, then, is certainly a potential outcome. Although as Shiller also makes clear, investors shouldn't obsess over the level of the CAPE ratio.
"The idea that these ratios represent forecasts for the underlying value is just not right," he said. They mostly shed light on "psychological narratives."
In addition, some have questioned the CAPE ratio's usefulness in a period of prolonged low interest rates and evolving accounting standards. Still, most valuation metrics do show that stocks are relatively expensive as compared with historical precedents.
So where does that all leave investors?
"I don't like to worry too much," Shiller said. But "it's a good time to look at one's portfolio and ask if it's diversified enough."
—Additional reporting contributed by Stephanie Landsman.
Stocks have rallied this week on a combination of lower geopolitical worries (French election), long-awaited tax cuts now in play and — perhaps most importantly — earnings guidance that has generally been better than anticipated.
I am talking about full-year earnings guidance, not just first-quarter earnings reports. That guidance has been strong so far, particularly in industrials. The largest names have not only beaten guidance, but they also raised full-year estimates, including: Caterpillar, 3M, Illinois Tool Works, Honeywell, Stanley Black & Decker, Dover, Sherwin Williams, Boeing and Rockwell Automation. Other big companies like General Electric and United Technologies reaffirmed their full-year guidance.
This is a HUGE relief to the markets. Traders have been concerned because the market is expensive by historic standards (better than 18 times 2017 earnings). Analysts have been modelling notable increases in earnings for the rest of the year, based not on the Trump tax cuts but on a synchronous global economic expansion:
Check out which companies are making headlines before the bell:
Comcast — The NBCUniversal parent reported quarterly profit of 53 cents per share, nine cents above estimates, with revenue also exceeding Wall Street forecasts. The company said it saw exceptionally strong film performance, as well as revenue growth in its high-speed internet and business services units. It also registered growth in the theme park business.
Southwest Airlines — The airline fell two cents short of estimates with adjusted quarterly profit of 61 cents per share, while revenue was also below forecasts. Southwest did say it was pleased with the quarter, considering higher fuel prices and the current passenger revenue yield environment.
Ford — The automaker earned 39 cents per share for the first quarter, four cents above estimates, and revenue scored a beat as well. Ford did see lower profit compared to a year earlier, on higher costs, lower volume, and unfavorable exchange rates.
Dow Chemical — The chemical maker reported adjusted quarterly profit of $1.04 per share, falling 12 cents short of estimates, though revenue did beat forecasts. Dow did say that leading indicators point to improved performance going forward.
Raytheon — The defense contractor earned an adjusted $1.73 per share for the first quarter, 12 cents above estimates. Revenue was above Street predictions, and Raytheon also raised its full-year forecast. Its results have been boosted by strong electronic warfare system and Tomahawk cruise missile sales.
Bristol-Myers Squibb — The drug maker reported adjusted quarterly profit of 84 cents per share, ten cents above estimates. Revenue was also better than expected, helped by strong sales of the company's cancer and blood thinning drugs.
Under Armour — The athletic apparel maker lost one cent per share for its latest quarter, smaller than the four cent loss expected by analysts. Under Armour's revenue beat Street forecasts and it said it does expect to hit full-year targets.
Marathon Petroleum — The energy producer reported a surprise profit of six cents per share, compared to analyst forecasts for a five cents per share loss. Revenue was above estimates as well, with results helped by a faster than expected completion for refinery revamping activity.
Las Vegas Sands — The hotel casino operator reported adjusted quarterly profit of 66 cents per share, four cents above estimates, while revenue matched forecasts. The shares, however, are being pressured by a worse than expected performance in the rebounding Macau market.
United Continental — The airline said it would offer up to $10,000 to customers who volunteer to give up their seats on overbooked flights. It also issued new guidelines about how overbooked flights are handled and will provide further training for gate agents.
PayPal — PayPal came in three cents above estimates with adjusted quarterly profit of 44 cents per share, with revenue slightly above forecasts. The online payment service also announced a $5 billion share buyback.
Amgen — Amgen beat estimates by 15 cents with adjusted quarterly profit of $3.15 per share, although the biotech giant's revenue was short of the Street's forecast. Amgen saw sales of its popular rheumatoid arthritis drug Enbrel fall, but that was offset by cost controls. Amgen also raised the low end of its 2017 earnings forecast.
Buffalo Wild Wings — Buffalo Wild Wings was short of estimates by 24 cents with adjusted quarterly profit of $1.44 per share, while the restaurant chain's revenue matched forecasts. The company also cut its annual earnings targets, due to faster than expected inflation in chicken costs.
Weight Watchers — The weight management company named HSN chief executive Mindy Grossman as its new CEO. She'll depart HSN on May 24 and is expected to join Weight Watchers in July.
Tractor Supply — Tractor Supply matched Street forecasts with quarterly earnings of 46 cents per share, with revenue essentially in line as well. The farm supplies retailer cited weather as the key drag on its bottom line and that there should be a rebound for the current quarter.
Nokia — Nokia saw sales decline during its most recent quarter, but the maker of telecommunications equipment said the rate of decline was slowing and that the global market for its equipment was showing signs of recovery.
AstraZeneca — AstraZeneca reported falling drug sales once again during its most recent quarter, but the drug maker said it believes its fortunes will begin to rebound during the second half of the year.
United Technologies — The company's Pratt & Whitney engine unit was criticized by Airbus, which is upset that engine issues have delayed deliveries of the A320neo passenger jet.
Deutsche Bank — Deutsche Bank reported first-quarter profit that more than doubled from a year earlier, with the bank being helped by a higher volume of fixed income trading and lower legal costs.
Wednesday's pullback in Netflix should have investors scrambling to buy the stock, says Evercore ISI technician Rich Ross.
Netflix shares dipped by a bit less than 1 percent in early Wednesday trading, its first down day in the past five.
"That's your opportunity," Ross said Wednesday on CNBC's "Trading Nation." "You want to buy any weakness as that big breakout consolidates."
Just how much upside could be ahead for Netflix, which opened at $151.53 on Wednesday? "We'll show you why this is a stock that can trade at $180," the technician said. This price target implies a 19 percent rally for the stock.
The first thing Ross points out in the chart of Netflix is the "really nice advance coming out of the presidential election" from November into early 2017. The "bottom" of that rally was $110, with the top of the rally at around $142, a $32 move upward.

The second thing Ross sees is a "textbook flag formation" from February to April of this year, when the stock traded sideways. But while Netflix shares did pull back on Wednesday, they had broken out of consolidation just the day before, giving Ross reason to believe that the charts are pointing to a move up for Netflix.
"The thinking is that the flag formation flies at half mast, roughly halfway within the move."

That is to say, Ross's $180 price target is a function of his prediction that the stock will make another $32-or-so move up from Tuesday's levels — essentially mirroring the rally from November to February and taking Netflix to another all-time high.
Fundamental analysts are also bullish. The median price target on the stock is $160, according to data compiled by FactSet.
In March, Bernstein analyst Todd Juenger initiated coverage of the stock with an "outperform" rating and a $178 price target, memorably comparing the stock to Jesus Christ: "You either believe or you don't. We do."
Netflix is one of the best-performing tech stocks this year, rising 22 percent year to date.
Thursday's blast of high-profile earnings, including big tech bellwethers, could help set the stage for new stock market highs in the very near future.
There's a rush of earnings Thursday morning, including Union Pacific, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Ford, American Airlines, Comcast, Dow Chemical, Raytheon and Deutsche Bank, to name a few.
But some of the tech names that have led the market's gains report after the closing bell and could be big catalysts into Friday's trading. That includes Amazon.com, up 21 percent year to date, and Alphabet, which has risen 12 percent. Microsoft, Intel and Starbucks also report after the close.
There are risks to that scenario, including the fact that Congress still needs to pass a resolution to keep the government funded by Friday, though it is expected to happen. There are also wild cards, like the worrisome tensions with North Korea.
Another factor that markets are warily watching is the string of softening data reports. Thursday data includes March durable goods orders, weekly jobless claims and advanced economic indicators, all at 8:30 a.m. ET. Economists have been cutting forecasts for first-quarter GDP, expected Friday, but are hopeful the second quarter will bounce back. JPMorgan lowered its forecast to 0.4 percent for the first quarter on Wednesday.
Stocks slid into the close Wednesday, in a sell-the-news move after President Donald Trump's much anticipated tax plan. The proposal contained a juicy corporate tax cut but was viewed as short on details and likely to be seriously modified. Nonetheless, it is an opening round in what is expected to be months of horse trading on taxes.
"People are somewhat optimistic, but they wanted more detail," said Doron Barness, head of global equities trading at Oppenheimer. He said what the market is really focusing on are the nearby highs, like 2,400 on the S&P 500. That index closed Wednesday at 2,387, down 1 point. The Nasdaq was just under its high, set Tuesday, closing at 6,025, and the Dow was off 21 at 20,975. The Russell 2000 closed at a new all-time high of 1,419.
"We've had some soft economic data, but people are ignoring that. You have North Korea stuff going on. People are ignoring that. Those are the kind of things that could bring the market down if more economic data comes out that's weaker and there's something geopolitical. But absent that, I don't see how the market doesn't go higher. People are not going to sell this market," said Barness.
The Trump administration wants to give companies a break on profits earned overseas and brought back to the United States — a program that's been tried before to little effect.
Current estimates put the total stockpile that U.S firms are holding abroad so as to avoid U.S. taxes at somewhere in the $2.5 trillion range. Back in 2004, Congress approved a plan to "repatriate" such overseas funds that companies could bring back home at a reduced rate.
The program was part of the American Jobs Creation Act. The hope then, as now, was that companies would shovel that money back into the economy in the form of investment and job creation.
It didn't quite work out that way.
Contrary to the intent, the benefits skewed toward a select few companies in a select few industries. Rather than use the money for hiring and capital purchases, companies plowed the cash into share buybacks and dividends, and many of the biggest beneficiaries actually cut American jobs in the years after the repatriation.
"While empirical evidence is clear that this provision resulted in a significant increase in repatriated earnings, empirical evidence is unable to show a corresponding increase in domestic investment or employment," the Congressional Research Service, Congress' nonpartisan think tank, said in a report.
The CRS cited a series of reports into the benefits of repatriation, with a common theme that the 2004 program was "an ineffective means of increasing economic growth."
Retailers can breathe a collective sigh of relief.
The S&P Retail ETF rose 1.5 percent on Wednesday after Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin shot down the current version of a House proposal that threatened to impose a 20 percent levy on imported goods.
Retailers from J.C. Penney to Target had been extremely vocal about the impact the tax would have on their business, with Penney's CEO Marvin Ellison telling CNBC last month that it would send his chain's tax rate from 34 percent to 170 percent. That, Ellison said, would make it "virtually impossible" to turn a short-term profit.
Others, like PVH CEO Manny Chirico, argued the so-called border adjustment tax would force retailers to eliminate jobs as they looked for ways to cut costs. Meanwhile, industry lobbying groups like the National Retail Federation and the Retail Industry Leaders Association said the BAT would universally raise prices for consumers. That's because the vast majority of goods sold in the U.S. are manufactured overseas.
It appears that the White House heard the industry's complaints.
"We don't think it works in its current form, and we're going to continue to have discussions with them about revisions," Mnuchin said Wednesday.
Mnuchin's comments came as White House officials lifted the lid on President Donald Trump's tax plan. The proposal includes trimming the number of income tax brackets from seven to three, and cutting the corporate tax rate to 15 percent from 35 percent. It does not mention a border adjustment tax as outlined by the House.
—CNBC's Jacob Pramuk contributed to this report
Watch: BAT tax would be a disaster
Summer may be the perfect time for the average investor to "sell in May and go away," but professional traders could miss out on some big gains by hitting the beach.
In a Wednesday note, Raymond James analyst Andrew Adams noted out the S&P 500's average price return between May 1 and Sept. 30 between 1990 and 2016 is just 0.01 percent.
So generally the 'Sell in May' strategy has worked.
But, trading in the summer months could still be profitable for nimble traders if they hang around because the market tends to have big swings. In his Wednesday note, Adams points out that the market has posted big gains during some summer months, only to fall back to earth before October.
American stocks are up nicely year to date — the S&P 500 has gained nearly 7 percent in 2017. But markets abroad are leaving U.S. equities in the dust, and some strategists say the outperformance could accelerate.
The iShares MSCI EAFE exchange-traded fund, which tracks 962 large- and mid-cap stocks in developed markets in Europe, Australia and Asia (and excludes North America) is up nearly 11 percent year to date.
"There's momentum behind this right now. Part of what happened is after the November electoral surprise here in the U.S., we saw the U.S. rally above and beyond the rest of the world; our valuations got a little bit top-heavy, and then the rest of the world joined in on some level because there was a real relaxation of fear around Brexit that's built for a while," Max Wolff, market strategist at 55 Capital, said Tuesday in an interview on CNBC's "Trading Nation."
The stellar performance in global markets is especially pronounced this week in the wake of the French presidential election's first-round outcome last Sunday. The outcome was gauged as positive for European markets; the French CAC this week logged its best day in five years, while Italy's benchmark FTSE MIB market logged its best day in a year. The German DAX, meanwhile, has hit all-time highs.
"I think it's got a few more legs; I wouldn't bet on this to go much deeper into the year after midpoint but maybe another couple of months," Wolff said, referring to the EFA's outperformance.
The global ETF's largest country by geographical exposure is Japan, followed by the United Kingdom. Its three top-weighted holdings are all Swiss: Nestle, Roche and Novartis; Switzerland's benchmark stock market, the SIX Swiss Exchange, has gained over 7 percent this year. Financials comprise the largest sector tracked by the fund. Technology, on the other hand, comprises relatively little of the fund at just under 6 percent, while it comprises 22 percent of the S&P 500.
"As long as global financials continue to rally, the EAFE index should outperform the S&P 500. EAFE is also playing a lot of catch up to the S&P: it is only up 19.7% over the last 5 years in price terms versus 74.5% for the S&P 500. It all comes down to continued economic growth in Big Europe," Nicholas Colas, chief market strategist at Convergex, wrote to CNBC in an email Wednesday.
Furthermore, EAFE markets are cheaper than the S&P 500 on a valuation basis, Colas said. Most estimates come in around 15 times forward earnings versus 18 times for the S&P.
From a technical standpoint, global equities can continue rallying on an absolute basis, said Rich Ross, Evercore ISI's head of technical analysis. Examining a weekly chart of the EFA, Ross pointed to an 18-month base of support that began in 2015. The fund began gapping higher after the U.S. election in November, above its 200-day moving average, which indicated a bullish pattern to Ross. Still, the EFA itself is in a multiyear downtrend and may not be able to continue this strong run against the S&P 500 on a technical basis.
"When you look at that relative chart of the EFA divided by the S&P 500, which gives us that relative difference, you can see this has really been a ten-year run of underperformance," Ross said Tuesday in an interview on CNBC's "Trading Nation."
"There's nothing on the chart which tells us definitively that this 10-year run of underperformance has turned on a structural basis," Ross said.
"I'm not sure ... I'm ready to make the leap to say it's all about the rest of the world over the U.S. going forward," he said.
As the market digests details of the White House's tax plan, released Wednesday, Jim Cramer looked into the proposed cuts to see how they might affect companies and shareholders.
While the "Mad Money" host is skeptical about the plan passing Congress, he started by looking at how a corporate tax cut from 36 percent down to 15 percent would change how companies do business.
"You should know that the average effective corporate tax rate is already 19 percent, so it may not be as sweeping as it seems," Cramer said.
Still, companies that pay the most taxes, namely retail, restaurant and entertainment players, would benefit from even a minor decrease.
Watch the full segment here:
JPMorgan Chase economists are forecasting first quarter growth of just 0.4 percent, barely a positive pulse.
The economists cut their view from 0.6 percent on Wednesday, after reviewing annual revisions to retail sales data — reflecting a potentially worrisome trend of consumer weakening also seen in softer auto sales and retail sales data recently.

Wynn Resorts shares closed up almost 6 percent Wednesday, a day after the casino operator reported strong earnings, which CEO Steve Wynn attributed to the return of growth in the Chinese market.
"We're enjoying a resurgence of activity at the top end in China," Wynn said on a conference call following the report Tuesday, according to a transcript. "People are settling back into routines that they're comfortable with, and that includes, you know, going to Macau and buying a new car or shopping at Louis Vuitton."
The company's first quarter earnings came in at $1.24 per share, outperforming Wall Street's expectation of 93 cents per share, according to Thomson Reuters. Gaming net revenue in Macau was $587 million, higher than the $500.9 million expected on Wall Street.
The shares are now up more than 44 percent this year.
One of the headwinds the company had been facing was a Chinese crackdown on corruption, which led many wealthy people in the country to pass on luxury goods and services to avoid arousing suspicion. As a result, Wynn said during the earnings call that the crackdown "had secondary effects on high-end products like shopping and automobiles, and gaming was part of that."
But he thinks the issue has mostly subsided, and that explains why he sees growth in the Chinese market.
Wynn sees the outlook for the company's Macau branch as only improving. Because of the limited real estate and restrictive permitting, Wynn says that once a few ongoing projects are completed, the gaming industry won't have any new competitors to worry about.
"The new tower that the rooms that were added at the City of Dreams is coming into season and then that's it, the door sort of closes on more supply," he said on the call. "And then we're just left with the enormous demand of China."
The plan from President Donald Trump's administration to cut the corporate tax rate by more than half was met with skepticism in financial markets because it could expand the federal deficit and send interest rates sharply higher.
But it was also seen as the opening round in a long battle to find a compromise tax plan in a divided Congress.
21st Century Fox lagged the market during the past year, but one Wall Street firm believes there is a way for the company to become more relevant in the digital age. Credit Suisse reiterated its outperform rating on the media company, saying it can change its fortunes by buying a controlling stake in Hulu. Twenty-First Century Fox shares are roughly flat in the past 12 months through Tuesday versus the S&P 500's 14 percent return. "US TV ad growth can accelerate ... long term, suggesting both valuation upside for FOXA but also increased strategic logic to owning a bigger stake in Hulu, in our view," analyst Omar Sheikh wrote in a note to clients Tuesday. "Vertically integrated networks/distributors will be in a strong position to exploit [their] access to viewing and other data that platforms can provide … We would therefore argue that it would make sense for Fox to acquire Comcast's stake in Hulu."
As President Donald Trump's administration nears its 100th day, stocks have kept faith that he will deliver on his promises of tax reform and a stimulus spending plan that will jump-start the economy.
The bond market, however, still wants proof.
At some point, one of those two big markets will turn out to be right. So far, there's been no big rush of legislation, just executive orders. But there's still optimism that changes are coming.
"I think that the first 100 days is showing me one thing, and that's that this guy, the current chief executive, he doesn't like to give up, so when the alternative to Obamacare was defeated, he didn't agree with congressional leaders that it was done for this year," said Don Townswick, director of equities strategy at investment management firm Conning. "I think he's pushing to get these parts of his agenda done this year, even if it takes a couple of tries."
"Dr. Doom" Marc Faber says the U.S. economy is "terminally ill," and the current outlook doesn't seem to be improving.
"The U.S. has run a deficit for [so long]," he said Tuesday on CNBC's "Futures Now." "The conditions today are more fragile than they were ever before, and unless somebody comes and introduces minus 5 percent interest rates, I think the economy is really not in such a great shape."
"I'm actually amazed that people are so optimistic," the editor and publisher of the "Gloom, Boom & Doom Report" added.
Faber had previously appeared on CNBC calling for a giant correction of as much as 40 percent in the market. His bold calls have led various analysts and traders to question his market predictions.
Nevertheless, Faber does see ways for investors to play global markets despite his view that the U.S. economic outlook is poor. In addition to emerging markets, India in particular, Faber says that Europe is a good investment.
"I would rather build up cash positions and eventually invest in the euro," said Faber. "I think the euro is attractive and fairly priced. I think European stocks are also relatively attractive."
Regarding individual sectors, Faber encourages investors to look at interest rate sensitive stocks and infrastructure plays. REITs will also "do relatively well," he added, as well as consumer staples stocks, which have rallied almost 8 percent year to date.
And while technology stocks have been the best-performing group under the Trump presidency, Faber actually warns that "tech is very uncertain," and investors should be cautious when looking at the sector.
After a rally last week in the wake of President Donald Trump's announcement that he would be kick starting a probe into imported steel, steel stocks tumbled Wednesday as weak earnings and slashed guidance from United States Steel sent worries through the sector.
U.S. Steel reported a quarterly loss of $1.03 per share, according to Thomson Reuters. That was quite a miss, as analysts polled by were expecting a quarterly profit of 35 cents per share. The company also slashed guidance, expecting full-year 2017 earnings of $1.50 per share, half the Street's expected figure of $3.05 per share.
White House officials revealed on Wednesday President Donald Trump's plan for large tax cuts for repatriated offshore corporate profits and a reduction of the corporate tax rate, providing a potential windfall for companies stashing the most cash overseas and paying the most to Uncle Sam.
Fortunately for investors, Wall Street strategists have already done the leg work giving clients ways to play this big moment for the markets. Trump's plan will propose a "one-time" lower repatriation tax rate for the more than a trillion dollars in corporate cash parked overseas. The actual reduced rate is yet to be determined, but Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said it will be "very competitive."
Currently, companies must pay a 35 percent tax on international earnings brought into the U.S. Strategas Research Partners cited in December how companies that repatriated the largest percentage of their overseas profits as a percentage of their market cap quadrupled the S&P 500's performance in the year after the 2004 repatriation tax holiday. The firm shared and recommended its Strategas repatriation index on Feb. 7, which consists of firms with the highest percent of offshore cash relative to their market caps.Here are five companies in the Strategas repatriation basket.

White House chief economic advisor Gary Cohn and Mnuchin also confirmed Wednesday Trump's tax proposal calls for cutting the corporate tax rate to 15 percent from the current rate of 35 percent.Goldman Sachs strategist David Kostin in January shared a list of stocks with the highest effective tax rates that he believes will benefit the most from the lowering of the corporate tax rate. Here are seven stocks the strategist recommended in its "high tax rate" basket.

Costco shareholders are about to get a nice payout and a rare one from a retailer.
The wholesale retailer who has ducked the woes of most other brick-and-mortar stores announced Tuesday a special cash dividend of $7 a share, along with a 5 cent increase of its quarterly cash dividend to 50 cents a share.
Shares closed up more than 2 percent on Wednesday. The last retailer in the S&P 500 to pay a special dividend was Best Buy in February of 2016, according to S&P Capital IQ. And that was just a meager 45 cents.
The special payout on common stock by Costco will be paid on May 26 to shareholders of record at the close of business May 10. The total payment of about $3.1 billion will be primarily funded through additional borrowings, Costco said in a release.
Costco shares year-to-date performance

Source: FactSet
"Our strong balance sheet and favorable access to the credit markets allow us to provide shareholders with this dividend, while preserving financial and operational flexibility to continue to grow our business globally," Richard Galanti, executive vice president and chief financial officer, said in the release.
There has only been one other special dividend this year by a company in the S&P 500, according to S&P Capital IQ's database. Ford announced one in January.
As of Wednesday's close, Costco shares are up 10.42 percent for the year so far, versus the S&P 500's 6.64 percent return over that time.

Wall Street rejoiced Wednesday about Twitter's better-than-expected earnings, sending its shares up sharply.
But online advertising has yet to see a "real breakthrough" that allows any other players to really compete with Facebook and Google, said Scott McNealy, former chairman and CEO of Sun Microsystems.
"It's a pretty interesting, and tough and brutal game for anybody who's not Facebook and not Google," McNealy told CNBC's "Squawk Box." "They're owning so much of the digital advertising space. And the space hasn't really evolved as well, I think, as people wish it had."
McNealy is now chairman and CEO Wayin, a digital marketing platform. When AT&T debuted the first online banner ad in 1994, it seemed promising, McNealy said. But he said that today, a minute fraction of netizens click on ads, and many of them do it accidentally.
"It's kind of a black box, and advertisers I talk to — the big brands — are very frustrated that they don't really know how many clicks they are getting," McNealy said. "They're not getting the data back."
It's been a nice start to the week for stocks, to say the least. The S&P 500 rose by 0.61 percent on Tuesday, after jumping 1.08 percent on Monday.
What's even more notable than the size of the moves, however, is just how confident the market has appeared.
On Tuesday, the S&P never once dipped below its Monday high. Likewise, on Monday, it never traded below the highest level it hit on Friday.
These unflinching moves higher are rare. Going back to the beginning of 1981 (the last year for which FactSet offers continuous daily range data), the S&P has seen a low above the prior day's high in only 1.5 percent of sessions.
For it to happen two days in a row is truly anomalous. The S&P spent the entire day above the prior high for three-straight sessions in mid-February; before that, it saw two back-to-back such sessions in April. And that's it, at least in the past 36 years.
Such a move can be called "a window or a gap higher," Rich Ross, head of technical analysis at Evercore ISI, said Tuesday on CNBC's "Trading Nation." "Why is that so difficult? Because think about how big the S&P 500 is. That's a lot of market cap to really leap higher. This is like the 'Shark Week' video of the great white leaping out of the ocean."
"It's very bullish," Ross added. "It speaks to that element of surprise, and to the urgency of investors to get back into a trend that they perhaps had stepped out of."
Indeed, this week's gains come following two months in which stocks simple treaded water, as investors awaited the French election with bated breath. A decisive showing for right-winger Marine Le Pen would have made a potentially destabilizing French exit from the European Union more likely, but that event was averted, at least for now, to the apparent relief of investors around the globe.
At the same time, there appears to be something more than sentiment driving the move. On Monday, even as the S&P rose by more than 1 percent, it traded in a mere 0.3-point range. That's the smallest range seen on an up 1 percent-plus day in at least the past 36 years, according to a CNBC analysis of FactSet data.
The decisive-looking market moves, then, may just be yet another consequence of one of the biggest macro trends in market recently: the striking decline of volatility.
That is to say, it's easier for the S&P to avoid moving below its prior day's high when it moves around so little to begin with.
The Nasdaq composite's run to 6,000 is thanks in part to President Donald Trump and less uncertainty abroad, Nasdaq President and CEO Adena Friedman told CNBC on Wednesday.
Friedman said the European landscape seems to have a bit more certainty going into the rest of the year, apparently referring to results of the first round of the French election in which far-right Marine Le Pen finished second.
"But also, of course, the administration is driving some interesting policy proposals particularly around tax," Friedman said on "Squawk Box."
On Tuesday, the Nasdaq soared above 6,000 for the first time ever after solid quarterly earnings reports from several large-cap companies in addition to investors zeroing in on the potential release of an outline to tax reform.
The promise of a major tax overhaul and looser regulations by the president partly fueled stock market gains in the months after Trump's election. Trump is expected to announce his tax plan later Wednesday.
Friedman's comment came as the Nasdaq released its mixed first-quarter earnings results. The company posted $1.10 per share on revenue of $583 million. Wall Street expected earnings of $1.06 a share on revenue of $594.6 million, according to Thomson Reuters consensus estimates.
Nasdaq also announced a 19 percent increase in its quarterly dividend to 38 cents and said it repurchased $156 million of its common stock in the first quarter.
Friedman said going into the second quarter the Nasdaq continues to see a nice pipeline of companies wanting to go public.
Earnings could keep the momentum going Wednesday, as markets await a much-heralded tax plan from the White House.
There was some trepidation that the plan, touted by President Donald Trump as "massive," could be a letdown after hyped-up expectations. Stocks soared Tuesday and bond yields rose ahead of the tax plan and as it appeared Congress will act on the budget in time to avoid a shutdown of the government later this week.
"I don't think much of the move is related to renewed optimism over the tax plan," said Mark Cabana, head of U.S. short-rate strategy at Bank of America Merrill Lynch. "There's still an expectation that there's a long way to go on this plan.
"We expect to see essentially the outlines of the broad strokes they would like to have, but not too much details," he said. "That leaves a lot of room for negotiation that will be needed between the White House and Congress."
But earnings alone won't carry the market, and if there are a few big misses in the mix, it could trigger profit-taking.
"It will only take disappointment from one or two household names to tip over the apple cart," said Art Hogan, chief market strategist at Wunderlich Securities.
He said the tax plan should be neutral unless it is not received well or there is some new feature the market views as negative.
"It wouldn't take much commentary from the deficit hawks to say it's not passable," said Hogan. "It just feels like after two powerful rallies we're due for a reset."
Check out which companies are making headlines before the bell:
Boeing — The jet maker reported profit of $2.01 per share, seven cents a share above estimates. Revenue was slightly below forecasts, and the company reported much better-than-expected free cash flow figures for the quarter.
United Technologies — The maker of Pratt & Whitney jet engines came in nine cents a share above estimates, with adjusted quarterly profit of $1.48 per share. Revenue was also above forecasts and the company saw higher sales in all four of its business units.
Procter & Gamble — The consumer products giant reported adjusted quarterly profit of 96 cents per share, two cents a share above estimates. Revenue was slightly below forecasts. P&G is citing a stronger dollar and political uncertainty among the factors holding back its results.
Twitter — Twitter earned an adjusted 11 cents per share for the first quarter, 10 cents a share above estimates. Revenue was well above Street forecasts, and Twitter added more daily active users than analysts had anticipated.
PepsiCo — The beverage and snack giant beat estimates by two cents a share, with adjusted quarterly profit of 94 cents per share. Revenue also beat forecast. The results were aided by stronger pricing, although PepsiCo is giving a full-year earnings forecast that falls slightly below estimates.
Anthem — The health insurer reported adjusted quarterly profit of $4.68 per share, well above estimates of $3.86. Revenue was above forecasts and Anthem gave a better-than-expected earnings and revenue forecast for the full year, helped by increased enrollment in its government-related businesses.
Restaurant Brands International — The parent of Tim Hortons and Burger King reported adjusted quarterly profit of 36 cents per share, one cent a share above estimates. Revenue was also above forecasts and the company increased its quarterly dividend by 5.6 percent.
AT&T — AT&T matched Street forecasts with adjusted quarterly profit of 74 cents per share, however revenue fell short of estimates. The company also surprised analysts by losing postpaid subscribers during the first quarter.
Chipotle Mexican Grill — Chipotle reported quarterly profit of $1.60 per share, beating estimates of $1.27. The restaurant chain's revenue was slightly above forecasts as was its first-quarter comparable sales. Chipotle also disclosed a data breach, saying it was investigating "unauthorized activity" in its payment systems during the past month.
Wynn Resorts — Wynn exceeded estimates by 23 cents a share, with adjusted quarterly profit of $1.24 per share. The hotel and casino operator also posted a slight beat on the top line. Wynn's results have been helped in recent quarters by a recovery in its Macau operations.
Arconic — The engineered products maker reported adjusted quarterly profit of 33 cents per share, nine cents a share above estimates, helped by strength in transportation and rolled products.
Panera Bread — Panera saw its quarterly profits match Street forecasts, with adjusted earnings of $1.83 per share. The restaurant chain's revenue beat forecasts as its comparable-store sales rose 5.3 percent from a year earlier.
Deckers Outdoor — Deckers is exploring strategic alternatives, with the footwear maker hiring Moelis & Co. as a financial advisor. Activist investors have been urging the maker of UGG boots to look at a possible sale of the company.
U.S. Steel — The company posted an adjusted loss of 83 cents per share, surprising analysts who had expected the steelmaker to report a quarterly profit. Revenue also missed estimates and the company gave weaker-than-expected 2017 guidance. U.S. Steel said operating challenges at some of its factories kept it from fully benefiting from improved market conditions.
Costco — Costco announced a $7 per share special dividend, payable on May 26 to shareholders of record on May 10. The warehouse retailer also raised its regular quarterly dividend to 50 cents per share from 45 cents.
Edwards Lifesciences — Edwards came in 12 cents a share above estimates, with quarterly profit of 94 cents per share. The medical device maker also saw revenue beat forecasts. Edwards raised its full-year forecast on strong sales of its transcatheter heart valve replacements.
Texas Instruments — Texas Instruments reported adjusted quarterly profit of 89 cents per share, six cents a share above estimates. The chipmaker's revenue also beat forecasts, and the company gave upbeat current-quarter guidance on strong demand in its automotive and industrial segments.
IRobot — IRobot more than doubled the 27 cents per share consensus analyst estimate with quarterly profit of 58 cents per share. The Roomba vacuum cleaner maker's revenue was also above forecasts. Additionally, iRobot raised its full-year earnings and revenue guidance above current consensus estimates.
Logitech — Logitech beat estimates in its latest quarter, and the maker of mice and other computer peripheral products said it was considering acquisitions to help it accelerate growth and move into new product areas.
Tyson Foods — Tyson is considering raising wages for its poultry plant workers, on top of a 3 percent to 3.5 percent wage hike that it gave workers in November. The company is considering the move to deal with a tightening labor market.
McDonald's — McDonald's is dropping its plan to sell shares in its Japan operations, which recently returned to profitability after three years of losses.
Marc Faber is known for his dire market predictions, but after years of calling for a correction that has yet to happen, the so-called Dr. Doom found himself under fire from a "Futures Now" trader.
In a heated exchange Tuesday on CNBC, trader Scott Nations pressed the Gloom, Boom and Doom Report publisher over his dismal forecast for stocks.
"You've been saying the same thing essentially since 2012 and have been consistently wrong," said a frustrated Nations. He pointed out that on Tuesday, the Russell 2000 hit an intraday high and the Nasdaq composite reached an intraday and closing high. The Dow and S&P 500  came within points of their respective records.
"If someone piled into stocks in 2012, 2013, 2014 or 2015 they've done pretty well. Why were you so wrong then, and why should we think you're so right now?" Nations asked.
Faber defended his call saying, "I warned of a correction in 2012 and we had one." A correction is defined as a move of 10 percent or more from peak to trough, and in April 2012 through June 2012, the S&P 500 fell more than 11 percent. "I tell you when all is over people will love me for having warned them to have all their money in stocks," added Faber. "I'm used to people like you who always attack me."
Still, Nations wasn't convinced and he pointed out that over the last five years as Faber has called for a market crash U.S. equities are up 75 percent. "I'm asking a simple question, 'what about your analysis was wrong [from the last five years] that leads you to believe you're more informed now?'"
The perma-bear responded by saying that the market is "far higher" and the eight-year bull market has gotten long in the tooth. "I also have to correct one point you're making. In 2007 and 2012, I was relatively positive about bonds and I argued that emerging markets would go up strongly," he said. "Some emerging markets have gone up vertically and bonds have actually performed quite well."
Indeed, the TLT long-dated Treasury ETF is up more than 40 percent in the last 10 years, meanwhile the Emerging Markets ETF, the EEM, is outperforming the S&P in 2017 but has underperformed over the long term. Faber maintains that there are better investments outside of the United States, looking to Europe and India for more meaningful gains.
"You're accusing me of being wrong? I laugh at it," Faber concluded.
As the bull market heats up, Jim Cramer pinpointed two promising takeovers that were overshadowed by a tidal wave of earnings reports and overlooked by Wall Street.
"Post [Holdings] and Cardinal Health have one thing in common here: they're not getting enough credit for how they're trying to change their stripes with these acquisitions they just announced," the "Mad Money" host said.
Post Holdings, the United States' third-largest cereal maker and the company behind Honey Bunches of Oats and Raisin Bran, is buying the United Kingdom's second-biggest cereal company, Weetabix, for £1.4 billion.
Though the Street wrote the takeover off as being too pricey, Cramer sees the payoff ahead. Weetabix does business internationally, with operations in Asia and Africa, while Post gets 93 percent of its sales from the United States and the rest from Canada.
"I think the international cross-selling opportunities could be enormous here," Cramer said, adding that the company is a smart acquirer that knows how to under-promise and over-deliver.
Cardinal Health may have slashed its full-year earnings guidance, turning investors off to its future prospects, but Cramer sees upside ahead for its $6.1 billion acquisition of Medtronic's patient care, deep vein thrombosis and nutritional insufficiency divisions.
"What really matters is that these Medtronic assets will help Cardinal Health continue to diversify itself away from that lousy drug wholesaling business that caused the darned shortfall in the first place, and they'll give the company's medical supplies segment a much needed shot in the arm," Cramer said.
Furthermore, Cardinal's disappointing guidance could give the company just enough weakness to spring from, as it expects this deal to boost earnings by 55 cents in 2019.
After Dow components Caterpillar, DuPont, and McDonald's surprised the Street with huge earnings gains, Jim Cramer looked into the companies to see if their wins were real or one-offs.
"When Caterpillar's numbers first flashed I said, 'Nah, has to be a one-time gain. No way they could earn $1.28. Wall Street's only looking for 62 cents.' But it was real," the "Mad Money" host said.
Cramer attributed Caterpillar's monster earnings beat to the company's operating leverage, specifically its ability to make few sales but garner massive profits.
Watch the full segment here:
Jim Cramer is always up for analyzing the stock market's valuation when commentary suggests that it has run too far too quickly and is too expensive.
"I want to tackle head-on the notion that the Nasdaq is overvalued, something we heard a lot of chatter about today because the index blasted through the 6000 level, and whenever we crash through big round numbers, it tends to cause instant soul-searching," the "Mad Money" host said.
When the Nasdaq sees a big run, people tend to recall the last time it skyrocketed, Cramer said. In this case, it happens to be early 2000, when the index approached 5000 then dived thousands of points, crushing a whole class of investors.
Watch the full segment here:
The Canadian dollar fell to a 14-month low and the Mexican peso was under pressure, after the U.S. slapped tariffs on the Canadian lumber industry, sparking fears the U.S. will get tougher on trade with the neighbors on its northern and southern borders.
David Einhorn's Greenlight Capital returned just 1 percent last quarter, trailing the S&P 500's 6 percent gain, according to the hedge fund's letter sent to shareholders Tuesday.
Part of the underperformance was due to losing short positions — including one in Tesla, according to a copy of the letter obtained by CNBC. Greenlight gained 8.4 percent in 2016, versus the S&P 500's 12 percent rise.
The firm also said it bought three stocks: Xerox-spinoff Conduent, Perrigo and an unnamed European financial institution that Greenlight could not discuss due to its policy on new European regulations.
Conduent can renegotiate or exit underearning contracts and turn loss-making business units into "profit centers," Greenlight said. Conduent shares traded a touch lower midday Tuesday, about 8 percent above Greenlight's average purchase price of $14.76 a share.
Perrigo, a white label maker of over-the-counter drugs, should continue to grow profits in its core U.S. market, Greenlight said, noting confidence in new management's ability to achieve earnings forecasts. The pharmaceutical company's shares spiked Tuesday before holding slightly higher, about 2.5 percent below Greenlight's average purchase price of $68.81 per share.
The hedge fund's largest disclosed long positions are AerCap, Bayer, Consol Energy, General Motors and gold, according to the letter.
Short positions that Greenlight closed included Signet Jewelers, whose shares plunged 26.5 percent in the first quarter in a win for the hedge fund.
Tesla shares leaped 30 percent in the first quarter and have climbed 11.9 percent so far this month.
In explanation for why the electric car stock and other high flyers have inexplicably continued to rise, the letter said: "Perhaps as the prospects for tax reform have dimmed, the market has regained enthusiasm for profitless companies that aren't at risk of paying taxes."
Click here
 for the latest on the markets.
Homebuilder stocks fell on Tuesday on concern new tariffs by the Trump administration on Canadian softwood lumber imports will raise costs.
The new tariffs average to about 20 percent and were announced Monday night.
The iShares U.S. Home Construction ETF (ITB) fell about 1 percent Tuesday. PulteGroup's stock closed down almost 4 percent, and Toll Brothers shares ended the day nearly 1 percent lower. PulteGroup also said its first-quarter results missed analyst estimates.
Shares of D.R. Horton also pulled back, closing down over 1 percent.
"We expect builders to attempt to combine surcharges to customers with someacceptance of lower margins as a way of coping," wrote Carl Reichardt of BTIG in a note Tuesday. "Expect stocks to react negatively today with volatility to come as this issue plays out."
The analyst notes that lumber accounts for 8 to 12 percent of the cost of a new home.
The trade action, the culmination of a long-running dispute between the two countries, wasn't totally unexpected as lumber futures have surged already this year in anticipation of a possible escalation of this sort by President Donald Trump and U.S. Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross.
"The reason we're putting it on is because Canada's forests are owned by the various provinces and the provinces charge very discounted … prices to the lumbermen, which in turn lets them get subsidized low prices coming into the U.S.," Ross told CNBC's "Squawk Box" on Tuesday.
"It seems unfair because in the U.S. most of the forests are privately owned and, therefore, they pay full market price," he said.
Lumber futures for May delivery fell 2.53 percent Tuesday to $385.10 per thousand board feet as investors took profits after the already blockbuster year for the commodity.
"Lumber futures should move higher, but this announcement has been anticipated," said Brian Kelly of BKCM. We "might get a sell the news" event.
Lumber futures are up more than 20 percent this year.
"It was priced in a couple weeks ago when there was talk the tariff was going to happen," said Daniel Flynn, trader at The PRICE Futures Group. "Markets tend to overreact on a headline. Right now, nervousness" in the market.
Canadian lumber stocks, on the other hand, rose sharply, including Canfor shares, which popped more than 6 percent.
—CNBC's John Melloy and Evelyn Cheng contributed to this report.
Watch: US will pay more for homes, says Canadian CEO
Investors should buy Apple shares due to the strength of its balance sheet and ability to generate cash, according to Needham, which reiterated its buy rating and raised financial estimates on the smartphone maker."In the context of today's chaotic global macro environment, AAPL's enormous net cash balance … gives it the ability to survive most macro disruptions and the flexibility to execute strategic choices," analyst Laura Martin wrote in a note to clients Tuesday. "We raise our estimates for FY17 and FY18 as our survey data indicates higher demand for the 10th anniversary iPhone models."
The battle between Buffalo Wild Wings and activist investors at Marcato Capital Management continued to rage on Tuesday after the hedge fund accused the chicken wing chain of making an "astronomical error" in a SEC filing.
In a statement Monday, Marcato said that B-Dubs had falsely stated in a chart that the company's shares had outperformed the S&P 600 Restaurant Index over a five-year period ending Dec 25, 2016. According to Marcato, the shares had actually underperformed the index by more than 60 percent during the period.
Buffalo Wild Wings stands by the claim it made in the proxy statement according to methodology used by Research Data Group, the third party it hired to run the numbers.
"The [Total Return Comparison Graph] included in the Proxy Statement was provided by [Research Data Group] based on methodologies that we understand RDG has used throughout its history."


A chart from the Buffalo Wild Wings 2017 proxy statement as seen by CNBC.
"This kind of sloppy, self-serving 'analysis,' which has gone uncorrected for three full days, including a trading day, is emblematic of what we believe is management's careless approach to assessment of shareholder value. This is an astronomical error and the fact that we need to point it out should make all shareholders question many arguments management has put forth," said Mick McGuire, managing partner of Marcato, on Monday.

An image published by Marcato alongside its statement on Buffalo Wild Wings.
Marcato, which owns 6.1 percent of the restaurant chain's outstanding stock, has been pushing since July for Buffalo Wild Wings to franchise more of its restaurants and last week called for Buffalo Wild Wings CEO Sally Smith to resign. Buffalo Wild Wings defended Smith's performance, saying she has helped generate huge returns for shareholders.
Here's the full statement from Buffalo Wild Wings about why it stands by its third-party performance claims:
"The [Total Return Comparison Graph] included in the Proxy Statement was provided by [Research Data Group] based on methodologies that we understand RDG has used throughout its history. RDG's methodology for sub-indexes like the S&P 600 Restaurant Index is to use the constituents of the sub-index as of the last day of the subject company's fiscal year. Consistent with SEC rules, RDG then calculates the total return of those companies over the preceding five-year period, rebalancing the portfolio once per year (based on market capitalization at December 31) and including newly public companies as of the first day of the year following their IPO. We understand that this methodology has been consistently employed across RDG's client base for any industry sub-index or peer- or custom-index."
"We stand by the accuracy of the Chart in the Buffalo Wild Wings proxy statement, which was prepared in accordance with our usual practice and in a manner compliant with SEC rules," RDG said in a statement. The firm declined to comment further.
Strategist Tom Lee has a clear message for investors: Stocks are carrying more downside risk than upside risk at this juncture. Lee, founder and head of research at Fundstrat Global Advisors, outlined in a recent note to clients that indeed he remains optimistic on economic growth, though he cautions that the market is sending three clear-cut signals that equities are slated to slide in the near-term. "I think my biggest concern is that the stock market is betting on an acceleration in growth this year, even at a time when corporations might take a break until they figure out what tax reform looks like, and it's coming at a time when margin debt is so high," Lee said in an interview Monday on CNBC's "Trading Nation." First, Lee is concerned that the long-term yield curve has narrowed substantially. A flattening yield curve is a widely viewed marker of slowing economic growth, as this suggests the expected return of long-term spending then has smaller expected return on investment. The spread between the 30-year Treasury yields and the 10-year Treasury yields, as Lee observed, has flattened since just after the U.S. election in November "and historically signals market weakness ahead." "In the past, the bond market has been much better at ferreting out problems and smelling slowdowns; that's the message from the yield curve. So I think the bond market is really taking the position that growth is going to disappoint, and the gap between the hard data and the soft data is still pretty big," Lee said Monday. Secondly, Lee is watching what he refers to as an "abrupt reversal" in market leadership in the last five months. Lee points to reversals in sectors like financials and energy, now both negative on the year after rallying in the weeks following the election. And leadership in different measurements like long momentum, the S&P 500 Buyback Index and the Dow Jones Contrarian Index have also reversed in the same timeframe. Next, he outlined the high-yield option-adjusted spread widening. Specifically, Lee notes that since 1998, the market has seen 30 instances in which high-yield spreads widened 60 basis points, as it did in late March, and the market saw a decline in 93 percent of instances (falling by a median 4 percent). The thinking is that high-yield indicates a tightening of financial conditions. How are investors to position their portfolios with these indicators afoot? Lee recommends investors stick with "FANG" stocks — Facebook, Amazon, Netflix, and Google parent Alphabet — as the names are "least exposed to wage inflation."
Notwithstanding these concerns, the S&P rose more than 1 percent on Tuesday following an outcome seen as positive from the French presidential election.
Check out which companies are making headlines before the bell:
DuPont — DuPont reported adjusted quarterly profit of $1.64 per share, beating estimates of $1.39 a share. The chemical maker saw revenue beat forecasts, as well, on increases in both volume and pricing. The company still expects its planned merger with Dow Chemical to be completed In August.
Caterpillar — Caterpillar reported adjusted profit of $1.28 per share, more than doubling estimates of 62 cents a share. Revenue also smashed estimates and the heavy equipment maker also raised its full-year forecast as some of its key markets recover.
3M — The maker of Scotch Tape and Post-It Notes beat estimates by 10 cents a share, with quarterly profit of $2.16 per share. Revenue also beat forecasts. 3M saw renewed strength in its Asia Pacific and EMEA regions.
Coca-Cola — The beverage giant fell a penny a share short of expectations, with adjusted quarterly profit of 43 cents per share. Revenue exceeded Wall Street forecasts. Coke's results were impacted in part by higher costs related to refranchising of North American bottling operations.
Eli Lilly — The drugmaker beat estimates by two cents a share, with adjusted quarterly profit of 98 cents per share. Revenue was also slightly above expectations. Lilly was helped by stronger demand for newer products, such as the diabetes treatment Trulicity.
PulteGroup — The home builder fell a penny a share short of estimates, earning 28 cents per share for its latest quarter. Revenue also fell short of forecasts, however it did see orders rise by 8.4 percent and sold more homes at higher prices.
Netflix — Variety reports that Netflix will debut in China via an original content licensing deal with Iqiyi, one of China's leading streaming platforms.
Centene — The health insurer reported adjusted quarterly profit of $1.12 per share, seven cents a share above estimates. Revenue was also above forecasts. Centene issued a full-year forecast that comes in above current consensus, due to enrollment increases and benefits from its acquisition of Health Net.
Straight Path Communications — The holder of spectrum licenses said it received an unsolicited bid of $104.64 per share from an unnamed multinational telecommunications firm, and that it has determined that the new bid is superior to its $95.63 per share agreement to be acquired by AT&T. AT&T has been notified and has five days to respond, per its prior agreement.
Tyson Foods — The meat processor struck a deal to buy AdvancePierre Foods Holdings for $3.2 billion in cash, or $40.25 per share. That represents a nearly 10 percent premium for shareholders of the packaged sandwich supplier.
Mylan — Kmart's pharmacy cut the cost of its generic epinephrine injection for patients with life-threatening allergies. Kmart's price for cash-paying customers is $199.99 per two-pack, compared to $642.69 for Mylan's EpiPen.
Wells Fargo — The Federal Reserve said the bank's "living will" was satisfactory. A prior plan to unwind the bank's business in case of failure had failed to win the Fed's approval. Separately, Wells will hold a widely watched shareholder meeting today with the focus on a battle over its director slate.
T-Mobile US — T-Mobile reported adjusted quarterly profit of 48 cents per share, 13 cents a share above estimates. The wireless carrier's revenue was essentially in line with forecasts. T-Mobile also added more subscribers than analysts had anticipated.
Express Scripts — Express Scripts came in one cent a share above estimates, with adjusted quarterly profit of $1.33 per share. The pharmacy benefit manager's revenue was short of the Street's outlook, however. Separately – and significantly – the company said its contract with health insurer Anthem was unlikely to be renewed after it expires in 2019. Anthem accounted for approximately 18 percent of the company's revenue during the first quarter.
Alcoa — Alcoa reported adjusted quarterly profit of 63 cents per share, 10 cents a share above estimates. The aluminum producer's revenue came up short of analysts' forecasts, however, despite an upbeat pricing environment.
Humana — Humana raised its full-year forecast, as its retail health insurance business turns in a better-than-expected performance. It also issued preliminary adjusted first-quarter profit of $2.75 per share, beating estimates of $2.49 a share.
Whirlpool — Whirlpool fell five cents a share short of estimates, with adjusted first-quarter profit of $2.50 per share. The appliance maker's revenue was slightly above Street forecasts. The company also cut its full-year outlook, due to challenges in the European, Middle East, and African markets.
Tyson Foods — Tyson is considering the sale of its non-meat brands, such as its Sara Lee bakery unit, Kettle frozen foods, and Van's breakfast foods.
Akorn — Akorn agreed to be bought by German health care company Fresenius for $4.75 billion, or $34 per share in cash. The generic drugmaker's shares had risen this month on reports that such a deal was close.
Ericsson — Ericsson posted a slightly bigger-than-expected operating loss, with the mobile telecom equipment maker hurt by restructuring costs and lower spending by telecom firms.
Novartis — Novartis reported first-quarter profit of $1.13 per share, one cent a share above estimates. The drugmaker's sales were short of forecasts, however, as the company's results were impacted by a charge related to the failure of an experimental heart failure drug.
SAP — SAP reported quarterly profit that matched forecasts, with the business software maker's revenue slightly above projections. SAP is shifting its emphasis to the cloud, and profit margins in that area fell as the company invests more in that transition.
The Trump administration said it will impose a tariff averaging 20 percent on Canadian softwood lumber imports in retaliation for alleged improper subsidies.
Traders believe the action may initially cause lumber futures to jump, which in turn will weigh on shares of homebuilders when trading begins Tuesday. The type of lumber targeted by the tariff is used to build houses.
The Canadian loonie was already falling versus the U.S. dollar in overnight trading.
The action, the culmination of a long-running dispute between the two countries, wasn't totally unexpected as lumber futures have surged already this year in anticipation of a possible escalation of this sort by President Trump and his Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross.
"I am surprised that the loonie is not getting hit harder," said Brian Kelly of BKCM LLC in an email. "The last time the U.S. imposed tariffs on Canadian lumber was in 2006. Canada responded by tripling its exports to China."
Lumber futures are up more than 20 percent this year as traders bet it may come to this.
Lumber CME, YTD:

"Lumber futures should move higher, but this announcement has been anticipated," Kelly added. We "might get a sell the news [event], in which case you want to buy any sell-off in homebuilders in the morning."
Short-term spikes have weighed on housing shares in the past. CNBC looked at how certain related securities performed when lumber futures spiked by 5 percent or more in a single day, something that's happened 39 times in the last decade, according to Kensho.
Here's what happens, on average, on those trading days:

The average losses from housing shares are small because often times, a jump in lumber prices is because of increasing housing demand.
But not this time. If homebuilders import their lumber from Canada, this will likely hit their bottom line directly.
The falling loonie may weigh on Canadian stocks if history is any guide. Here's what happened, on average, to the iShares MSCI Canada ETF when the currency lost 0.5 percent of its value or more versus the dollar:

Shares of lumber producers subject to the tariff, such as Canfor, may come under pressure in Canadian equity trading. U.S. timber-related stocks including Deltic Timber and Potlatch Corp. will also likely be active in Tuesday's session ahead.
After Monday's stunning stock market rally, traders will be looking for something to keep the momentum going Tuesday.
Here are three things that could have an impact.
With Washington policymakers butting heads over the federal budget, Jim Cramer decided to prepare investors for the case of a possible sell-off that could send stocks reeling.
"We've got another major political problem coming up that seems tailor-made to cause the kind of panicked sell-off that makes for a fabulous buying opportunity," the "Mad Money" host said.
"I'm talking about the prospect that the geniuses in Congress accidentally cause a government shutdown because they might not be able to pass a budget by the deadline this Friday," he continued.
While Cramer does not necessarily think a shutdown is bound to happen, worries that it might happen could slow the rally and even push stocks lower.
"In short, despite today's euphoria, you maybe get a better chance to buy," Cramer said.
T-Mobile President and CEO John Legere says he has always felt like his mobile communications company was leaps and bounds ahead of its competitors.
"I've always told you that both dumb and dumber have been big contributors to the success of T-Mobile," he said to "Mad Money" host Jim Cramer on Monday.
Legere attributed T-Mobile's handy earnings beat on Monday mainly to its customer growth — 1.1 million total net additions — and boosted service revenues, something not seen in the wireless industry in several years.
Watch the full segment here:
With the U.S. stock market being so momentum-driven right now, investors need to make sure they look at the longer-term picture, expert Brian Belski told CNBC on Monday.
And that means buying favorite stocks on price breaks and taking a little off the table when the market goes up, he explained.
However, Belski sees future action in the bond market that will be "fantastic" for equity investors.
"There's a big short squeeze coming in bonds later in the year," the chief investment strategist at BMO Capital Markets said in an interview with "Power Lunch."
U.S. stocks rallied on Monday on the results of the first round in the French presidential election, which showed centrist Emmanuel Macron and far-right Marine Le Pen advancing to a presidential runoff. Most polls show Macron easily beating Le Pen in the second round.
Meanwhile, Treasury yields, which move inversely to price, were higher after the results.
Investors are also waiting to see what happens with President Donald Trump's promises of tax reform. On Saturday, the president posted on Twitter that "big" tax changes would be announced on Wednesday.
Belski wants to see how companies react to the tax cut and how they grow their businesses again before adjusting his outlook for the market. The S&P 500 has already passed his current base case target of 2,350.
"We're going to get a better opportunity to buy stocks a little bit cheaper. Remember, we're heading into a seasonal period where stocks are typically weak," he pointed out.
"On a very, very short-term basis, should you be taking the 1 percent gain today? Probably. Should you be taking the 4 percent move in Europe today? Yes," he added.
Used-car prices are sliding, and some warn that this trend could have sharply negative effects on both relevant stocks and on the economy as a whole.
"This is a credit bubble in autos that is very reminiscent of the subprime mortgage crisis," Larry McDonald, head of global macro strategy at ACG Analytics, said Friday in an interview on CNBC's "Trading Nation."
"The Federal Reserve kept interest rates too low for too long; the easy-money gravy train has funded a colossal supply of cars," said McDonald, who is known for his book about the decline of Lehman Brothers based on his time working there.
Indeed, the number of cars per household has reached all-time highs and car-dealer inventories are rising, according a Deutsche Bank report published this month. However, the report highlights that autos are a relatively small share of the overall U.S. economy; car production typically adds 0.1 percent to gross domestic product growth, and autos comprise less than 1 percent of total consumer spending.
This month, Bank of America Merrill Lynch published a report titled, "Are we heading into a car crash?" and highlighted weak March auto sales as a potential warning sign for the auto sector.
Citing work from John Murphy, the firm's lead U.S. auto analyst in equity research, chief U.S. economist Michelle Meyer wrote: "They are concerned about bloated inventories, particularly for used cars, which have already led to a decline in prices, as well as signs of stress in the auto financing market."
Still, Meyer wrote that so far the slowdown in the pace of auto sales is "manageable" for the economy.
"The auto sector is set to go from a slight positive for growth over the prior few years to a neutral/slight negative this year. The bigger issue would come from a sharp decline in the rate of auto sales, as John Murphy and team are increasingly concerned about," she wrote, adding that inventory is indeed hovering close to historical highs in non-recessionary times.
McDonald wrote in an email to CNBC that, specifically, auto rental companies Avis and Hertz would "have the most to lose in a continued trend of lower used car prices."
Bets on the failure of Hertz and Avis to repay their bonds, as measured by five-year credit default swaps, are on the rise as used-car prices fall and auto loan delinquencies edge higher. Elsewhere in the industry, automakers General Motors and Fiat Chrysler this month reported March sales figures that missed expectations; Reuters reported industry watchers are increasingly concerned about rising inventory levels.
When it comes to Hertz and Avis, McDonald's recommendation is simple: "Sell these stocks now," given his prediction that a decline in autos' residual values — the estimated value of a car at the end of a lease's expiration — will lead to a 10 percent decline in earnings for these companies.
Indeed, the technical setups for Avis and Hertz are "terrible," said David Seaburg, head of sales trading at Cowen & Co. Avis is down nearly 17 percent year to date, while Hertz has lost nearly 26 percent in the same time.
"Sell them with both hands. There's no reason to own them here," Seaburg said Friday on "Trading Nation." "Will we get trading bounces? Absolutely," he said, adding that "obviously we have a massive credit concern looming."
Recently, car dealerships have come under pressure from manufacturers to take on more inventory even though they could not sell what they have, Seaburg said, "so you knew at some point there was going to be a crack."
Still, the concern over autos may not be as pronounced for some experts who track credit. A comparison between the auto industry right now and the housing crisis is not a very good one, said Sandler O'Neill equity research analyst Jeffery Harte.
"The auto-lending market is so much smaller than the housing market, so even if it got it as badly as mortgages, it wouldn't have nearly as big an effect," Harte told CNBC in a Monday phone interview.
For auto lenders the picture may appear direr, and falling used auto prices and slowing loan growth are indeed areas Harte is watching, but overall he sees the industry as relatively stable at this juncture.
Hertz declined to comment, and Avis did not immediately reply to a request for comment.
McDonald's is coming in hot ahead of its earnings report Tuesday.
Shares of the company once again Monday hit a fresh all-time high of $134.76,  just a day ahead of the company's first-quarter earnings report. There's the potential for the stock to soar even higher — if the burger chain can meet or beat Wall Street's expectations, that is.
McDonald's stock is up almost 4 percent this month and more than 10 percent for the year-to-date, as of Monday's closing share price of $134.23.
Shares of Wayfair closed down more than 5 percent on Monday, after a trade publication reported that Amazon may be introducing new delivery options for furniture sellers.
Amazon representatives told a group of retailers on Monday that it hopes to allow furniture sellers that do not deliver nationwide to join the platform, according to a report in Furniture Today. Retailers could list their products on the platform with a menu of services options, like "white glove delivery," as opposed to giving their products to third-party shippers, according to Furniture Today.
CNBC reached out to Amazon for comment, but did not immediately hear back. Wayfair declined to comment.
While Amazon has not formally announced changes to its furniture program, a New York Times report earlier this year indicated that the e-commerce giant has big plans when it comes to home furnishings. Seattle-based Amazon is mulling brick-and-mortar stores for furniture and appliances, to take advantage of technology like augmented or virtual reality, the Times reported.
Amazon has also continued to invest in new fulfillment centers for bulky items, including a New Jersey facility announced last week.
Still, shares of Wayfair are up 24 percent so far this year, as of Monday's close. A recent survey of high-income consumers by Piper Jaffray showed that Wayfair's brand finished third, under IKEA and Ashley Furniture, as favorite room furniture and home decor brand.

U.S. executives are shrugging off domestic policy concerns as they look to strike M&A deals.
Nearly 80 percent of U.S. executives expect their company to actively pursue mergers and acquisitions over the next 12 months, according to an EY survey released Monday.
"That was the biggest surprise" to come out of the survey, said Bill Casey, vice chair for transaction advisory services at EY Americas.
"The fundamental drivers continue to be innovation and disruption," he said. "Companies feel compelled to innovate themselves or to go into the market and buy."
More than 2,300 senior executives, including 459 in the United States, were surveyed in March and April.
The days of dollar strength appear to be over now that the French election has sounded the all clear on the euro, creating a potential big boost for profits of global-oriented U.S. companies in the coming months.
Three factors "are conspiring for a 'honeymoon period' for overseas earnings," Sean Darby, chief global equity strategist at Jefferies, said in a Monday note.
1. The dollar is weakening as Fed rate hike assumptions are pushed out and as political uncertainty in the U.K. and Europe recedes.
2. Earnings revisions in Europe and parts of EM are accelerating faster than the U.S.
3. Concerns over protectionism are fading at the same time as global trade is rebounding.
A key driver of dollar weakness is renewed strength in the euro, which on Sunday hit its highest level against the greenback since Nov. 10 after a market-friendly result from the first round of the French election. Centrist presidential candidate Emmanuel Macron took nearly 24 percent of the vote and far-right candidate Marine Le Pen took 21.5 percent. Macron is expected to win the second round on May 7 by a wide margin.
"It's going to be hard to hold it down now that the French election is over and the data is OK," said Thierry Albert Wizman, global interest rates and currencies strategist at Macquarie. "I don't think we're going to end the year much different from here but in the near term there's definitely some momentum."
The Nasdaq Composite was up more than 1 percent midday Monday, edging close to a record 6,000 points, as the Nasdaq 100 hit another all-time high. And the "big 5" technology companies — Apple, Microsoft, Alphabet, Facebook and Amazon — were in the lead.
Stock indexes have made broad gains since the election, and Nasdaq is no exception. In December, the Nasdaq topped 5,500 for the first time ever. The index notched new all-time high levels, at either the close or intraday, in January, February, March and April, rounding out its best quarter since 2013.

The poll estimates for the French presidential election allow the markets to get some renewed confidence, Chase Chief Economist Anthony Chan said Monday.
U.S. stocks opened sharply higher Monday after centrist Emmanuel Macron won a plurality of votes in Sunday's preliminary French presidential election. And Macron is expected to beat far-right opponent Marine Le Pen in the second round with 62 percent of the vote, according to a poll from Ipsos/Sopra Steria.
Macron and Le Pen will face off again on May 7.
The Dow Jones industrial average opened up more than 200 points, while the S&P 500 and Nasdaq composite opened up 1 percent.
"They had lost some of their faith," Chan said on "Squawk on the Street." "When you look at the estimates of the election polls for the second round, they're singing a tune that the markets like, and that's why the markets are celebrating."
Nicholas Colas, Convergex chief market strategist, told CNBC on Monday he wouldn't expect too much from the market's recent move up.
"I think you're just seeing a snapback rally after some concern about the outcome from the election," he said on "Squawk on the Street." "But I think the underlying fundamentals are exactly the same as they have been."
"We have a very narrow leadership market, mostly in tech. Fairly high valuations and, until today, a 20-year bond that had done better than small- and mid-cap stocks. So, there was a lot of questions about this rally to this day," he said.
Colas added he believes corporate earnings can offset some of the sentiment swings around politics in the U.S. and abroad.
"Earnings this quarter will be about 9.2 percent growth year-over-year, the highest since the fourth quarter of 2011," he said. "So, we've finally broken out of the very slow earnings growth cycle into something a little bit better."
Late last week Netflix said it reached 100 million subscribers, a remarkable milestone for the video streaming service that analysts believe means this quarter's financial results may be better than Wall Street is currently anticipating.
The company also announced on Monday plans to raise more than $1 billion outside of the U.S. through a debt offering to fund its global expansion.
Netflix shares opened Monday up about 1 percent, trading around $144 per share after closing up more than 1 percent on Friday on the subscriber news.
Chief Executive Reed Hastings posted Friday on Facebook: "Celebrating 100m members the same way I did 1m: a steak alone at Denny's. #superstitious"
Now that Netflix has achieved this notable subscriber milestone, many analysts are saying the company is lowballing its guidance for subscriber growth in 2017.
If Netflix ended the first quarter with 98.75 million subscribers — as was recently reported — and has now surpassed the 100 million mark, that means the company has already made about 40 percent of its stated second-quarter subscriber guidance in just three weeks, analysts point out.
"Adding over 1.2mn [subscribers] of the 3.2mn guidance for the quarter in the first 21 days suggests a strong start," MKM Partners analyst Rob Sanderson wrote in a Monday note to clients. If this pattern continues on a linear trajectory, that would imply about 5.5 million adds for the quarter, well above Netflix's 3.2 million estimate, he added.
Further, Monday's fundraising announcement makes it clear the company is preparing to expand globally by raising $1.09 billion in a European bond offering.
"Netflix intends to use the net proceeds from this offering for general corporate purposes, which may include content acquisitions, capital expenditures, investments, working capital and potential acquisitions and strategic transactions," the company said in a statement.
As of Friday's close, shares of Netflix have climbed nearly 50 percent from one year ago and are up about 15 percent year to date.
Global banking stocks rallied after it was announced Sunday that centrist Emmanuel Macron will advance in the French election to take on Marine Le Pen, a far-right candidate. Investors rushed into bank stocks, fleeing safe havens like government bonds and gold as interest rates moved higher.
This was the scenario nervous traders going into the weekend wanted most, and it removed a heavy uncertainty overhanging global markets and the euro since the start of the year.
Shares of Deutsche Bank closed up more than 11 percent on Monday, as investors took the results from the first round of the French presidential election to mean it will be business as usual for banks in the European zone.
U.S. banks with global franchises also gained on Monday. Goldman Sachs and Citigroup each closed almost 3 percent higher, while Bank of America closed up more than 4 percent.
The regional bank (KRE) and bank (KBE) ETFs of the S&P 500 both closed up more than 2 percent on Monday.
The euro rose sharply against the dollar on Sunday, hitting a five-and-a-half month high, and it continued climbing Monday morning, as currency markets globally were comforted by the results of France's vote.
The yield on the 10-year Treasury jumped to 2.31 percent from 2.25 percent Friday before the French election results.
U.S. bank shares may get more help later in the week, as President Donald Trump is scheduled Wednesday to release more information on his plan for tax reform.
Financial stocks have largely led the post-election market rally because the sector is expected to benefit the most from Trump's pro-growth policies of tax reform and deregulation.
Watch: Impact of French election on U.S. stocks
JPMorgan and UBS warned investors that Apple's near-term results may come in below expectations.
However, both firms reiterated their buy ratings on the smartphone maker because of optimism over the next iPhone likely coming in the fall.Apple is slated to report fiscal second quarter earnings on May 2.
"We remain bullish on Apple in 2017 given what we believe is unprecedented pent-up replacement demand, combined with expectations for a materially different iPhone product this year. Having said that, we believe FQ3 guidance could be somewhat weak assuming Apple also believes consumers will want to wait for new product availability this fall," JPMorgan analyst Rod Hall wrote in a note to clients Friday. Hall said there is a "better-than-normal chance" Apple will show off the next iPhone with its new OLED display at the Worldwide Developers Conference in June."We are a bit concerned about iPhone demand ahead of the launch of a compelling product in late 2017," he wrote. "We would see any weakness as a buying opportunity, though we note that generally positive views of this cycle may limit downside on the stock." As a result, Hall's estimates for Apple's June quarter are $44.2 billion in sales and $1.53 in earnings per share versus the Wall Street consensus of $45.7 billion and $1.63.
UBS analyst Steven Milunovich told clients to look beyond Apple's March and June quarters. The analyst's June quarter revenue estimate is $45.4 billion, which is also below the Street average. His earnings projection for the quarter is a penny-per-share higher than the consensus.
"Most investors are focused on F18, which means the next few reports should be less important than usual," Milunovich wrote in a note to clients Monday. "We are slightly below consensus for the quarter and this year but above for F18."
Now that we have a full 100 days under our collective belt with the new Trump administration, we have learned that the president is trying to pull a triple-play: Relieve over-regulation, pass real tax reform and, as it turns out, be a protectionist.
The first two are the life blood for a marketplace starving to free up seed capital which grows the economy. But the third thing, the protectionist ideology which has crept into the agenda, must be resisted at all cost!
Overregulation is choking off growth, whether the EPA's stringent standards making it next to impossible to build a new refinery or the NLRB insuring interference with Boeing's move out of Washington State. The Trump election and subsequent sweep of congress changed that mentality overnight and unleashed the suppressed American entrepreneurial spirit. Although the fight to repeal the ACA has been a setback, we can see a presidential shift away from his populist base seeking instant gratification towards the Republican leadership looking to pass negotiated legislation, something he had to learn on the job.
The second part of the 100 days' agenda is the start of tax reform. Since there is so much comparison to Reagan and supply side, a review of the effects of the Reagan tax cuts on the economy is good analysis. In 1981, the Economic Recovery Tax Act (ERTA), reduced personal tax rates by about 25 percent. The claim that unrealistic supply side Reagan Administration revenue projections caused large budget deficits during the 1980s is not correct.
The official Reagan revenue projections following enactment of ERTA, did not have huge revenue increase projections. In fact, they were very close to the Democrat controlled CBO revenue projections which showed that deficits would fall after the enactment of the Reagan tax cuts. Unfortunately, the Democratic controlled congress never cut spending ( promised by then Speaker Tip O'Neill) which led to the '87 crash and subsequent recession. But the fact is that individual income tax revenues rose from $244 billion in 1980 to $446 billion in 1989.
In late 2014, when crude oil was vacillating between roughly $60 and $80 a barrel, Tom Kloza of the Oil Price Information Service called for a plunge in crude prices over the next year. He was right — crude's value per barrel was nearly slashed in half by the end of 2015. Now, Kloza sees further downside for the commodity that's already tumbled nearly 8 percent this year as U.S. production keeps climbing. He predicts crude will trade in the upper end of the $40 range, perhaps eke over $60 a barrel, but ultimately remain in its recent low- to mid-$50 range for some time as increased shale production has significantly impacted the market. "Back to the drawing board for crude oil prices," he remarked Friday in an interview on CNBC's "Trading Nation." Kloza's comments come on the heels of crude oil's worst weekly performance since early March, in which the commodity lost nearly 7 percent to settle just below $50 a barrel. "It's the sense that too much gasoline and really a drop in U.S. demand in particular, but a little bit of softness in India and some other places, is going to lead to an undertow for refinery runs," Kloza, who co-founded the Oil Price Information Service and is the firm's global head of energy analysis, said Friday. Concerns of oversupply in the oil market have dragged prices down, Kloza noted, and paired with "a lot of weak charts and a lot of technical selling really brought the market back down to earth." Indeed, crude on Friday dipped below its 50-day moving average and in late March dove beneath its 200-day moving average, indicating weakness on a technical front. In the U.S., crude oil stockpiles fell by 1 million barrels last week, the U.S. Energy Information Administration reported; inventory still hovers near record highs. Kloza said he believes crude oil stockpiles will drop every week this quarter and next quarter, which may, in theory, prove bullish for crude prices, "but that's going to require a lot of patience." "The people who are looking for $60 and $70 [per barrel], they have to realize something. We haven't actually had a month for WTI where it averaged in the 60s since September of 2009," he said, adding that there were many months following that year in which crude oil averaged anywhere between $80 and $100 per barrel, but not typically in the $60 range. Furthermore, market watchers looking for oil to end up in the upper $60-$70 range in the intermediate term are going to have to "come back to Earth."
The XLE energy ETF hit its lowest level since before the November presidential election in Friday trading, as WTI crude oil logged a 7 percent loss on the week.
"You still have supply growth that's overhanging the market, and the OPEC tailwind is being overshadowed by that," David Seaburg, head of equity sales trading at Cowen and Co., said Friday on CNBC's "Power Lunch," referring to the tug of war between OPEC production cuts and increasing U.S. supply.
"On the [trading] desk, we're seeing nothing but sellers in all these names, and especially the winners," he added. "I think even the bulls are capitulating here."
With so much bearishness in the market, however, we're "getting closer to a bottom," Seaburg said.
Looking at the XLE, which closed Friday trading at $67.80, the trader commented that "$65 is the 'line in the sand' where you close your eyes and buy it. I'd start picking away at these [current] levels and then get more aggressive if we see more downside."
Larry McDonald, of ACG analytics, is also bullish on energy stocks—but for reasons that have more to do with Washington, D.C. than Cushing, Oklahoma.
He said Friday on "Power Lunch" that many energy companies pay high tax rates, which means that "as the perception of tax reform comes back in the next couple of months, we could see a lot of upside in the XLE."
"Now's the time you want to be leaning into some of these names," McDonald said.
Energy giants Exxon Mobil and Chevron collectively make up 39 percent of the ETF, which is down about 10 percent this year.
Five companies have become the pillars of the stock market in 2017, and their names shouldn't sound unfamiliar, either. Apple, Alphabet, Microsoft, Amazon and Facebook are carrying a load of weight on their shoulders.
As the Nasdaq hit a record high Thursday, it's important to note that the top five S&P 500 stocks by market capitalization represent 12 to 13 percent of the index's overall weight, and all of them — technology-related stocks — are trading in positive territory year to date.

Apple, maker of the iPhone, is up 23 percent year to date, Google's parent company Alphabet is up 9 percent, Windows operator Microsoft has climbed 6 percent, e-commerce giant Amazon has risen 20 percent and social media darling Facebook is up a whopping 25 percent, as of Thursday's close.
If you haven't already, it's worth noting that Apple, Facebook and Amazon have already climbed at least 20 percent for the year, and this is one of the reasons the stock market is holding up so well.
To date, the S&P 500 index is trading well above its 200-day moving average.

From this perspective, things might look healthy for equities. But about 120 to 130 stocks in the index are actually trading below that moving-day average. So, those five above-mentioned stocks are doing a lot of the heavy lifting.
Hence the record highs in the market of late, despite not every company performing at par.
— CNBC's Lauren Thomas contributed to this report.
Investors should buy McDonald's shares because its new menu improvements will drive earnings above expectations next year, according to BMO Capital Markets, which initiated on the restaurant chain with an outperform rating. "We believe MCD has a well-developed pipeline of menu news to continue to support customer engagement with the brand, including more focused value efforts, renovations around core menu items, and new product innovation," analyst Andrew Strelzik wrote in a note to clients Thursday.
Honeywell International reported better-than-expected first-quarter profit Friday, which was boosted by stronger sales in its aerospace and energy businesses, sending its stock up.
The company posted earnings of $1.71 per share, while analysts were expecting $1.62.
The economic bellwether said sales in its aerospace business, Honeywell's largest segment, fell 4.3 percent to $3.55 billion during the quarter. But this was better than the 5 to 7 percent decline forecast by the company.
Honeywell shares closed over 2 percent higher on Friday.
Honeywell explained further that revenue from its aerospace unit — which manufactures engines for aircraft made by the likes of Bombardier, Textron and General Dynamics — was driven largely by growth in its commercial aftermarket, as well as gas turbo penetration in Europe and China.
Also on Friday, Honeywell raised the lower end of its full-year 2017 earnings guidance by 5 cents to $6.90 to $7.10 per share. Analysts had forecast 2017 earnings of $7.03 per share, according to Thomson Reuters consensus estimates.
"Our diversified portfolio, coupled with the investments we've made over the past several years, drove our excellent performance in the first quarter," Honeywell's CEO, Darius Adamczyk, said. "The commercial aftermarket within aerospace and the global distribution business within home and building technologies remained strong."
With Friday's gains, shares of Honeywell are up 10 percent for the year and have risen more than 11 percent over the past 12 months.
As the stock market pushes toward fresh records, the biggest debate on Wall Street going on right now is whether to believe the "soft" data or the "hard" data about the economy. The soft data is reflecting confidence in President Trump's economic policy and goosing the stock market, while the hard data, things like actual sales, is struggling.
Here is a perfect example of the dichotomy on display right now presented by Liz Ann Sonders, chief investment strategist at Charles Schwab.  The Conference Board's "soft" consumer confidence index hit in March its highest since December 2000 . On the other hand, "hard" retail sales fell for a second straight month in March.
Charles Schwab Tweet
For now, stocks are favoring the sentiment measures. The Nasdaq composite closed at a record high Thursday, while the S&P 500 is within 2 percent of its all-time high. The Dow Jones industrial average closed Thursday within 3 percent of its all-time high.
"Sentiment at the corporate level has dramatically improved following the Democrat loss. Period," Canaccord Genuity Chief Market Strategist Tony Dwyer said in a note in March, when his firm raised its year-end S&P 500 target from 2,340 to 2,470. That's 4.8 percent above where the index closed Thursday.
One piece of hard data that the bulls have in their favor is earnings. The S&P 500 is also expected to post its third straight quarter of year-on-year profit per share growth.
But the much of the hard data is reflecting weakness. The pace of commercial and industrial loan growth — typically an indicator on business investment that's needed to fuel the economy — fell this month to its slowest in nearly six years, according to the Federal Reserve. This the actual amount of loans being extended by banks to actually grow the economy. This is hard data.
"We continue to expect a slow expansion of the economy. It has been disappointing," said John Bredmeus, vice president, Allianz Investment Management. Given the sluggish recovery of the last several years, "I think we need to recalibrate in terms of what the real potential is for the U.S. economy is given the demographics and some of the wealth distribution issues."
The divergence between the hard and soft data continued this week. The Conference Board's Leading Economic Index, which measures prospects for the U.S. economy, showed Thursday a rise in March to a record high.
Paul Tudor Jones is a reclusive hedge fund legend who never talks to the press. So much so that "PTJ" even tried to bury a PBS documentary featuring him from 1987 by purchasing all the available copies.
But apparently he did reveal his thoughts on this market at a closed-door meeting earlier this month with Goldman Sachs, and Bloomberg News has what he allegedly said second hand according to people who were there. CNBC has also confirmed these comments with a source who was there.
PTJ, who made a large part of his fortune by calling the infamous stock market crash in October 1987, referred to a chart of the market's value relative to the country's economy and said it should be "terrifying" to central bankers, namely Federal Reserve chief Janet Yellen, according to the report.
Below is a version of this chart from the website dshort.com:

The trader said that low interest rates instituted by central bankers around the world have ballooned U.S. stock market valuations back to 2000 levels, right before the dot-com bubble burst and shares plunged.
This chart is sometimes called the "Buffett Indicator" because the Berkshire Hathaway chairman once referred to it in an interview as one of the key measures of valuation he tracks. CNBC pointed out at the end of last month that some investors and traders were starting to discuss it once again.
Back in 2000, this version of the chart shows that investors had valued the stock market at more than 130 percent of the total economy. Today it stands at around 121 percent, lower than that high point, but still out of whack with the average over time. The indicator basically shows investors are unrealistically valuing future growth in the economy. Buffett had said the buying opportunity is at much lower levels below 100 percent.
To be sure, Tudor Jones did not say it was time to bet against stocks yet and even acknowledged the market could go higher still if Sunday's French election goes as expected, according to the report.
He does believe it eventually will happen though with the downside move exacerbated by low-volatility vehicles called risk-parity funds.
The Nasdaq composite index posted a record close Thursday as investors continue to believe higher earnings and President Donald Trump will justify current levels. Two investing legends apparently disagree.
See here for the full Bloomberg News report.
--With reporting by Leslie Picker
It seems Wall Street is losing faith in Barbie-maker Mattel.
Lackluster first-quarter sales and a weaker-than-expected gross margin have lead to questions about whether the toy maker can complete its promised turnaround.
Shares of the company closed over 13 percent lower on Friday, last changing hands at $21.79.
Mattel blamed retail inventory overhang from the holidays for the 15 percent drop in sales that impacted its most famous brands including Barbie, Fisher-Price and American Girl.
Investors should buy Costco shares because it is one of the few retailers that can succeed versus e-commerce competition, according to Barclays, which upgraded the wholesale club chain to overweight from equal weight."Given Costco's high-quality merchandise in food, low prices, and the frequency of purchase for these items, we believe that the company's customers will remain loyal and believe Costco's price positioning and quality in food insulates it from AMZN," analyst Karen Short wrote in a note to clients Thursday.
Short raised her price target for Costco to $185 from $170, representing 9 percent upside from Thursday's close.The analyst cited how food and groceries represent 57 percent of Costco's sales. The firm surveyed 600 consumers and found more than 80 percent of the retailer's customers "specifically" shop at Costco for its food and grocery offerings. "This tells us analytically (as opposed to intuitively) that COST is very protected from AMZN," she wrote. Short also predicts the retailer's sales results will improve going forward due to easier comparisons, better profits from its 2016 Visa credit card deal and more store investments from its coming membership fee increase.Costco announced it will raise its annual membership fee by $5 effective June 1. "While COST trades at premium vs. other names in our space, we think this is deserved given the 'scarcity value' of retailers with sustainable and defensible business models," she wrote.
— CNBC's Michael Bloom contributed to this story.
Three months into the Trump administration, executives at public companies are wondering if the change in leadership will make much of a difference at all.
In first-quarter earnings calls, S&P 500 executives expressed both enthusiasm for the pro-business attitude of the Trump administration and concern about the sweeping changes he might make to public policy. But in the second quarter so far, the mood has grown more muted, according to a CNBC analysis.
The number of mentions of the president has decreased, and sentiment toward the new administration has shifted from optimism to doubt that promised changes will happen.
"There's still uncertainty," BlackRock CEO Larry Fink told analysts and investors on Wednesday." There are significant issues related to tax reform, infrastructure spending, and so we need to see how this all evolves."
Less than half the S&P 500 companies that have reported earnings so far in April mentioned the new president in their earnings calls with investors, according to a CNBC analysis. That's down from nearly 80 percent during the same period in January.
A daily morning look at the financial stories you need to know to start the day.
STOCKS/ECONOMY
-Stock futures are a bit higher after Thursday's broad rally. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin's comment that the Republicans are close to presenting their tax reform plan is buoying investors.

FRANCE LATEST
-A terrorist attack on the Champs Elysees in Paris Thursday left one police officer dead and two others wounded. This is all happening ahead of France's presidential election Sunday.
THE TRUMP TRADE
-President Donald Trump will sign two executive orders today. One is expected to call for a review of the Dodd Frank rules.
McDonald's shares hit an all-time high in Friday trading, and some strategists foresee more upside for the stock ahead of its earnings release next week.
Erin Gibbs, equity chief investment officer at S&P Global, says the fundamentals are now lining up nicely for the stock.
"Fresh not frozen beef has been the recent positive headline for McDonald's but it does have a few other things going for it," Gibbs wrote to CNBC in an email Thursday. Specifically, its forward price-earnings ratio has come down from its mid-2016 peaks, and is now more in line with its recent average, she wrote. And the stock offers one of the highest dividend yields in the consumer discretionary sector — nearly 3 percent. Another positive element, Gibbs noted, is the company's recent organizational and leadership changes.
While revenue is expected to decline over the next three years, margins are projected to increase, leading to higher earnings growth, Gibbs wrote. The company is expecting 8 percent earnings growth for 2017 and 2018.

From a technical standpoint, McDonald's is set up very constructively in the short term, said Evercore ISI's head of technical analysis, Rich Ross. Ross has observed a recent "textbook breakout" from an 18-month trading range between about the $111 and $131 marks, and projects another $20 of upside from current levels. Such a rally to the upside would imply a move up to $153 a share, "so currently this presents a good buying opportunity." Looking further back, however, Ross said there is some "ominous symmetry" between this month's price action and that of April 2013. Four years ago, "You had a very similar setup. Twenty percent decline, 20-plus percent rally, we push out to an all-time high in April of 2013," he said Thursday on CNBC's "Trading Nation." And that breakout to a new all-time high from a technical standpoint failed, and the stock traded in a rather narrow range over the next two years.

"So if this breakout were to fail and drop back into the pattern below that $130 level, I would not be quite as sanguine on this stock here," he said. A group of 31 McDonald's franchisees said in a recent Nomura Instinet survey that they expect same-store sales at their respective locations to have grown 0.8 percent in the first quarter. The stock is up more than 9 percent year to date; analysts on average give McDonald's an overweight rating with a slightly bullish $136.58 target price, per FactSet.
Check out which companies are making headlines before the bell:
General Electric —  GE earned an adjusted 21 cents per share for the first quarter, four cents above estimates, with revenue also above forecasts. Separately, the company said its deal to combine its oil and gas operations with Baker Hughes  remains on track.
Honeywell — Honeywell beat estimates by four cents with adjusted quarterly profit of $1.66 per share, with revenue beating Street projections as well. Honeywell's results were boosted by better than expected aerospace and energy sales.
Stanley Black & Decker — The tool maker beat estimates by 10 cents, reporting adjusted first-quarter profit of $1.29 per share, while revenue also beat forecasts. The company also raised its full-year forecast largely above estimates, based on strength in its industrial businesses.
SunTrust — The bank earned an adjusted 87 cents per share for its latest quarter, three cents above estimates, while revenue was also above forecasts. SunTrust said its results were helped by diversification of its business mix, among other factors.
Costco — Costco was upgraded to "overweight" from "equal weight" at Barclays, which said its research indicates that the vast majority of customers visit Costco specifically to buy food. Barclays notes that this indicates Costco is largely protected from competition from Amazon.com.
McDonald's, Wendy's — BMO began coverage on both restaurant stocks with "outperform" ratings. It said McDonald's is a premium brand in the early stages of a turnaround, while Wendy's has an attractive valuation and is benefiting from changes in its business model.
Domino's Pizza — Guggenheim rates the pizza chain "buy" in new coverage, pointing to Domino's scale, disciplined decision-making, and an excellent franchise network.
Visa — The Dow component reported adjusted quarterly profit of 86 cents per share. That comes in seven cents above estimates, with revenue also exceeding forecasts. Visa also announced a new $5 billion share repurchase program.
E-Trade Financial — E-Trade beat forecasts by nine cents with quarterly profit of 48 cents per share, and the online brokerage also so revenue come in above estimates. E*Trade also saw its strongest brokerage account growth in three years.
Mattel — Mattel posted a quarterly loss of 32 cents per share, wider than the 17 cent loss that analysts were expecting. The toymaker's revenue also fell short of expectations, with weak demand for its Fisher-Price toys and Barbie dolls, as well as heavy discounting after weak holiday sales. Competitor Hasbro is seeing its shares are falling in sympathy.
Chevron — Chevron lost its appeal of a $226 million Australian tax bill. The country claimed the energy giant owed taxes on a loan from an affiliated company. Chevron is in the process of deciding whether to appeal the decision.
Wal-Mart — A Wall Street Journal report said the retail giant is escalating an ongoing food price war, with the goal of having its food prices 15 percent lower than its competitors at least 80 percent of the time.
Anthem — Anthem indicated it would offer Affordable Care Act plans for 2018 in Virginia and Kentucky, amid reconsideration by major insurers about whether to renew their state ACA plans for next year. UnitedHealth Group did offer a plan in Virginia this year but has confirmed it will not do so in 2018.
Sony — Sony raised its full-year profit forecasts on lower costs at most of its business units.
Kindred Healthcare — Kindred is exploring a possible sale, according to a Reuters report. The acute care provider is trying to reduce its exposure to Medicare patients, and sources say it could attract interest from both major health insurers and private equity firms.
Skechers — Skechers reported first-quarter profit of 60 cents per share, beating estimates by six cents, and the footwear maker's first-ever billion dollar sales quarter was also slightly above Street forecasts.
Robert Half International — Robert Half beat estimates by four cents with quarterly profit of 62 cents per share, with revenue essentially in line. The temporary staffing firm did, however, give current quarter revenue guidance largely below current estimates, saying employers are taking an unusually long time to make hiring decisions.
The "Fast Money" traders discuss their favorite retail stocks as the SPDR S&P Retail Sector ETF (XRT) popped 2 percent higher on Tuesday following renewed optimism on tax reform.
Trader Brian Kelly said he likes Wal-Mart because the retailer is "addressing the structural shift that's going on" following its investment in e-commerce with its purchase of website Jet.com. Kelly also said he likes distribution facility developer and operator Prologis as a warehouse play.
Trader Guy Adami said he likes Whole Foods because of the stock's performance. Shares of the food retailer jumped nearly 19 percent in the last 30 days.
Trader Tim Seymour said people are spending money on renovations and home improvement as their wealth increases. Therefore he likes Home Depot, Lowes, Sherwin-Williams and Restoration Hardware.
Disclosures:
Tim Seymour is long ABX, AAPL, APC, AVP, BAC, BBRY, C, CLF, CVX, DO, DVYE, EDC, EWN, EWZ, F, FB, FCX, FXI, GM, GOOGL, GE, INTC, LQD, MOS, MCD, MUR, OIH, PG, RACE, RAI, RH, RL, SINA, SQ,T, TWTR, VALE, VZ, XOM. short: EEM, SPY, XRT; Tim's firm is long ABX, BABA, BIDU, CBD, CLF, EEM, EWZ, F, KO, MCD, MPEL, NKE, PEP, PF, TCEHY, SAVE, SBUX, SINA, VALE, VIAB, WMT, WEN, X, YHOO, short EWG, HYG, IWMBK is long Bitcoin, GE, GDX, HLF, TLT, TSLA, WMT.
Dan Nathan is long GE, SPY May put spread, XLV long APR-June put spread, XLI long June put spread, XRT long April-June put spread.
Guy Adami is long CELG, EXAS, GDX, INTC. Adami's wife, Linda Snow, works at Merck.
In light of paint and coatings giant Sherwin-Williams buying competitor Valspar, Jim Cramer decided to inspect the deal and came up with one hidden winner.
Coatings company Axalta is the relatively under-the-table beneficiary of the deal, in which Valspar had to forcibly sell its valuable wood coatings business at a discount to Axalta in order to be acquired.
As a result, Axalta is left with a profitable business purchased for a bargain, a way out of the embattled automobile space, and more exposure to the expanding North American housing business.
"I think Sherwin-Williams is a winner here with the Valspar acquisition, I've been saying that," the "Mad Money" host said. "But I also bet maybe the biggest beneficiary from this deal turns out to be little Axalta, since it's getting Valspar's wood coatings division for a total and complete bargain. What's not to like?"
Activist investors demanded changes in companies from Buffalo Wild Wings to Arconic to Whole Foods in the last few weeks, so Jim Cramer took a closer look at how and whether these activist strategies actually work.
The "Mad Money" host first turned to an ongoingbattle between Buffalo Wild Wings and activist fund Marcato Capital Management, which owns 6.1 percent of the chain's outstanding stock.
Marcato has repeatedly raised concerns that the restaurant chain's leadership is not doing enough to reach their goals and have no plan in place to do so. The firm even called for the resignation of CEO Sally Smith.
"If you look at the stock of Buffalo Wild Wings, you can understand Marcato's point: I mean, the stock's done nothing for almost four years," Cramer said.
Watch the full segment here:
JPMorgan retail analyst Matthew Boss sees the rare winners of brick-and-mortar retail pursuing two aspects that he believes are key to staying afloat during the rise of e-commerce.
"Convenience is Amazon, convenience is e-commerce. It's value and convenience. That's what the off-price sector has today," Boss told "Mad Money" host Jim Cramer on Thursday.
Over 4,000 store closures have been announced in the past 18 months, many of them department stores. Boss said that while the department stores' biggest obstacles are a lack of convenience and value perception, the closings could signal a turn in the embattled sector.
"It's a big step in the right direction," Boss said. "I think this is still multi-year, but the companies know what they're up against, they know about the brick and mortar versus the e-commerce."
Watch the full segment here:
Thursday's market surge intrigued Jim Cramer, so he decided to look at the day's earnings reports to find where all the bullishness originated.
"There are a couple of joyous weeks every quarter where we hear from individual companies that their collective results are actually able to control the agenda of trading," the "Mad Money" host said. "They serve as the preponderance of the evidence about how companies are really doing, how their stocks should perform, and, by extrapolation, how strong or weak the broader economy may be."
In other words, major institutions like the Federal Reserve or the Department of Labor typically hold sway over the market. But during earnings season, a flurry of strong reports can coax a positive response out of the market on its own.
Watch the full segment here:
Why the rally? This is a tricky one to call, because volume is average (it's been weak for a month) and volatility isn't spiking, either up or down. Instead of one answer, this is one of those days where several factors have combined to create a rally:
Bottom line: there has not been a lot of movement in the markets because there haven't been a lot of reasons to sell. It's hard to make a case for a big drop unless you believe: 1) France is pulling out of the European Union; 2) the tax cut program Trump has been pushing is dead; or 3) the U.S. economic data continues to worsen into the second and third quarter, and bond yields keep moving down.
For the moment, the markets seem to be saying that these prospects are unlikely.
Check out which companies are making headlines after the bell on Thursday:
Shares of Visa ticked up 3 percent during extended-trading after the payments network operator reported a second-quarter earnings and revenue beat. Visa reported earnings of 86 cents a share on revenue of $4.48 billion while Wall Street expected earnings of 79 cents a share on revenue of $4.295 billion, according to Thomson Reuters consensus estimates.
Mattel shares tumbled more than 6 percent during after-hours following another quarter of lower sales and a larger-than-expected loss. The toy company reported a loss of 32 cents a share on revenue of $736 million while analysts expected a loss of 17 cents a share on revenue of $801 million, according to Thomson Reuters consensus estimates.
Shares of Ocwen surged nearly 6 percent in extended trading after the stock tanked more than 53 percent during intraday trading. Ocwen shares plunged after a report saying state and federal authorities have sued the company due to the mishandling of millions of mortgage accounts.
Electronics for Imaging shares tanked more than 12 percent during after-hours after the company posted quarterly revenue that disappointed. The digital printing company reported earnings of 55 cents a share on revenue of $228.7 million while analysts expected earnings of 55 cents on revenue of $239.2 million, according to Thomson Reuters consensus estimates.
While markets regained some ground on Thursday after a few tough sessions, trader Todd Gordon believes the stock rally may soon stall.
The TradingAnalysis.com founder says that the S&P 500's recent close below its 50-day moving average on April 13 suggests that the market will soon start trading in a sideways range.
"That's the first close below the 50-day moving average after an extended uptrend in the stock market," said Gordon Thursday on CNBC's "Trading Nation," referring to the April 13 close. "So that's where this little piece of analysis begins."
The trader's analysis is based on three previous times when the S&P 500 closed below its 50-day moving average, incidences that kicked off periods of inertia for the index. The most recent was in September of last year, right after the S&P 500 had rallied through the summer from its Brexit lows. Following that move below the 50-day moving average, the S&P traded in a sideways range "that lasted 59 days."

Before September, the S&P had fallen below the trendline in May 2016, after which the index spent 47 trading days in a sideways consolidation, according to Gordon.

Finally, Gordon goes back even further to point out the same trend back in December 2015 heading into 2016. Again, the trader points out that the S&P fell below the 50-day moving average, and then saw an "82-day period of back-and-forth" before breaking out and rallying again.

"So if history is to serve as to any indication of what's going to happen in the future, we might have approximately 63 days of sideways back-and-forth here," said Gordon, which is about the average of the three previous periods of sideways trading.
This leads Gordon to believe that "a more range-bound strategy" in the options market is the best way to play the market in the short-term.
Shares of American International Group spiked Thursday after a report that the insurer may be close to finding a successor to outgoing CEO Peter D. Hancock.
AIG is considering Hamilton Insurance Chairman and CEO Brian Duperreault for the role, Bloomberg reported, citing sources familiar with the board's discussions.
Other candidates are still being considered to fill Hancock's position, the news service said, citing one of the sources. AIG is also contemplating an offer to buy Hamilton, the report said, citing one of the people.
Spokespeople for AIG and privately held Hamilton Insurance said the companies don't comment on speculation.
Intraday performance of AIG shares

Source: FactSet
On March 9, AIG said Hancock informed the board of directors of his intention to resign. Hancock will remain chief executive until a successor is named, the release said.
The news followed shareholders' and directors' frustration with AIG's poor financial performance, despite a two-year turnaround plan Hancock developed. AIG investor and billionaire activist Carl Icahn opposed the plan in favor of splitting the insurer into three parts.
Hamilton's Duperreault held senior executive positions at AIG and its affiliates from 1978 to 1994, according to his  company profile. Duperreault is also chairman of Attune, an insurance distribution platform for small businesses established by AIG, Hamilton and affiliates of Two Sigma Investments last year. He did not immediately respond to a CNBC emailed request for comment.
Shares of AIG briefly rose more than 2 percent Thursday after the report and were last changing hands about 1.5 percent higher. The stock is about 8 percent lower year to date.
— Reuters contributed to this report.
UBS downgraded U.S. banks this week, partly based on the view that President Donald Trump's promised tax reform will take longer than expected to achieve.
"Recent comments by the Federal Reserve suggesting a more dovish outlook for policy rates, as well as comments by President Trump prioritising healthcare reform ahead of tax reform and infrastructure spending, imply that improvements in the sector's revenues and profitability may take longer than previously anticipated to come through," a UBS team led by strategist Philip Finch and analyst Mariana Taddeo said in a Tuesday note, released Thursday to media.
The report lowered UBS' view on U.S. banks to neutral from overweight, maintaining a preference for brokers and universal banks over regional banks.
Financial stocks have led the post-election market rally as the sector was expected to benefit the most from Trump's pro-growth policies of tax reform and deregulation. However, markets have grown less certain about the timing of tax reform after Republicans pulled a proposal to repeal and replace Obamacare.
U.S. stocks rose Thursday after Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said a tax reform plan was "pretty close."
But a timeline on passage this year is still uncertain.
Former Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan told CNBC on Thursday the prospect of getting rid of the Dodd-Frank banking regulations has been a driver of higher stocks and would continue to be.
"If you get rid of Dodd-Frank, it's going to have a very significant positive impact on the economy," he said on "Squawk on the Street," from the sidelines of the IMF-World Bank meeting of finance ministers in Washington.
"In my judgment, that's where the surge in the stock prices has come from. It's very difficult to find anything other than that, which I find really positive," argued Greenspan, who served nearly two decades as Fed chairman from 1987 to 2006.
In February, President Donald Trump ordered the Treasury and other financial regulators to review the banking and consumer finance rules created under Dodd-Frank, the 2010 law crafted in response to the financial crisis two years earlier.
The tighter rules aimed at preventing taxpayers from having to bailout "too big to fail" banks in the future included higher rainy day capital requirements, which critics say stifle lending and hurt economic growth.
Investors should buy Microsoft shares because its improving cloud business will drive earnings above expectations in the coming year, according to Morgan Stanley, which reiterated its overweight rating on the technology company. The firm has "high conviction into Q3. Top line acceleration (driven by Azure + O365), gross margin stabilization (improving cloud gross [profit] margins + LinkedIn), opex discipline, and aggressive share repurchases should drive improving EPS growth at MSFT," analyst Keith Weiss wrote in a note to clients Thursday. "With a forecasted mid-teen total return profile thru FY19, we remain buyers." Microsoft is scheduled to announce fiscal third-quarter financial results on Apr. 27.
The pace of commercial and industrial loan growth has slowed to its weakest pace in nearly six years, according to Federal Reserve data, adding to worries about economic growth and whether the rally in bank stocks since the election is justified.
Commercial and industrial loan growth rose at its weakest pace since July 2011, at $58.1 billion year over year through the week of April 5, according to the Fed.

Source: Yardeni Research, Federal Reserve Board
"There's a lot of nervousness about the divergence between the strength of soft data following the election and hard data, and one of the weakest examples of that is loans," Ed Yardeni, president and chief investment strategist at Yardeni Research, told CNBC. He cited the data in his morning research note Thursday.
"It's disconcerting," said Yardeni, who is also an economist.
Reports on sentiment, or soft data, have been encouraging, while so-called hard data such as retail sales have painted a less optimistic picture of the U.S. economy. The latest CNBC/Moody's survey estimates the U.S. grew less than 1 percent in the first quarter.
Now loans are showing more reason for real concern about the economy, and an industry dependent on that growth — banking.
Major bank reports on loan growth confirmed the sluggish pace in the last week. JPMorgan Chase said its commercial and industrial loans grew 8 percent in the first quarter from the same quarter last year, unchanged from the fourth quarter of 2016.
Bank of America reported a 0.57 percent year-over-year increase in total loans and leases in the first quarter, down 0.05 percent from the fourth quarter of 2016. Citi said in the first quarter that total loans rose 2 percent year on year, and 1 percent from the fourth quarter of 2016.
Investors who run the other way when they hear negative headlines are making a big mistake, according to Mark Mobius of Franklin Templeton.
"Situations like we see in North Korea, what we're seeing in the Middle East will be with us for quite some time. But that doesn't mean countries don't continue to grow," he said in a Tuesday interview on CNBC's "Trading Nation."
"We're going to see continued growth," and investors should "see through" negative headlines to the underlying fundamentals, said Mobius, executive chairman of Templeton emerging markets group.
"If you look at the price charts, in dollar terms, for a place like Brazil or India [that] from one time to another has bad headlines, the reality is that stock prices continue to go up in dollar terms, so we've got to keep an eye on those prices," he added.
His remarks come as Bank of America Merrill Lynch's fund manager survey showed that investors are becoming more optimistic about the emerging markets, which include China, India, Brazil and Mexico. Investors "aggressively" bought emerging market stocks in April, propelling allocations to five-year highs, according to the report.
Looking forward, investors ought not to be deterred by a rising interest rate environment in the U.S., according to Mobius.
When considering investing in emerging markets, people have been "so afraid of higher interest rates, not realizing that higher interest rates in the U.S. don't necessarily mean a down market; sometimes interest rates go up and the markets go up. And this has been happening with emerging markets; emerging markets are going gangbusters," Mobius commented Tuesday.
While Mobius deemed India a strong pick out of the group, citing tax reform under Prime Minister Narendra Modi, he also sees opportunity in Brazilian equities.
The market is a "long way" from its five-year highs, he said, but he is highly encouraged by the reforms to be implemented in the months following the impeachment of former president Dilma Rousseff.
"Generally speaking, the long-term trend is very good," and pullbacks would present buying opportunities, he said.
Value investor David Katz shared his market views in an interview on CNBC's "Power Lunch" Wednesday. On favorite financial ideas: "We've talked about financials for the last six months. We were early and right ... What we've said is if there is any sort of pullback we would start to aggressively buy. We think you've had that pullback with very good fundamentals," Katz said. "So our favorites would be JPMorgan or a Wells Fargo. We like Morgan Stanley's print today." On dividend stock picks: "General Mills or UPS or AbbVie. All very good business paying 4 to 4 1/2 percent out to shareholders," he said. "You're getting a very good combination of current income, low volatility and upside." Katz is the chief investment officer of Matrix Asset Advisors, a New York-based investment firm.  He also discusses:
To watch the broadcast interview in its entirety, you must be a CNBC PRO subscriber.
U.S. oil prices fell nearly 4 percent Wednesday, reaching a session low of $50.28 per barrel and marking their biggest daily percentage decline since early March, as inventories posted a less-than-expected decline for the week.
U.S. crude futures closed the day down 3.76 percent, trading at $50.44 per barrel and hovering only slightly above the key $50 level, while Brent crude futures dropped nearly $2.30 to trade around $52.70 a barrel.
Earlier on Wednesday, the U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA) said U.S. crude stocks fell 1 million barrels on the week, a bit less than anticipated. A surprise build in gasoline inventories despite heavier refining activity, along with an increase in U.S. crude production, largely pushed prices lower.
"[Wednesday's] crude drawdown was not as large as expected," John Kilduff, founding partner at Again Capital, told CNBC in an interview Wednesday. "There was also a large jump in refinery capacity utilization ahead of the peak summer driving season. That's weighing on the perception of the [EIA] report."
"In other words, production of these refined products is expected to rise, increasing inventories."
Kilduff also noted that U.S. daily production increased to 9.25 million barrels per day. "That's another bearish sign for oil prices."
The selling intensified into the close on some maneuvering by traders.

U.S. crude for May expires Thursday, and traders are dumping their oil contracts ahead of that, one analyst also noted.
"Some of the people who picked up contracts below $50 decided to run out ahead of expiration," said Gene McGillian of Tradition Energy.
Meanwhile, the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) has had a difficult time reducing a global crude glut, as supply remains high in parts of the world, particularly the U.S.
"There's a lot of talk the (OPEC) agreement is going to be extended, but we have a full month to go before the (OPEC) talks are held," McGillian added. "The market has a hard time sustaining itself within striking distance of the year's highs."
U.S. inventories now sit at 532.3 million barrels, only down about 3 million units from the record reached in March.
Energy stocks dragged the stock market down further Wednesday with the SPDR Energy ETF falling to its lowest level since November.
— Fred Imbert, Patti Domm and Reuters contributed to this report.
Watch: Market still on heels after oil tumbles
After flocking from hedge funds in 2016, investors are beginning to find their way back.
In fact, March saw money came back into the $3.1 trillion industry at the fastest pace since August 2015 — a 20-month span that saw fund managers adjust fees and make other concessions as clients fled.
The month saw inflows of a healthy $15.7 billion, capping off a first quarter in which a fresh $21.9 billion in cash came in, according to industry tracker eVestment.
That follows a dismal year that saw $106 billion in outflows, the worst since the financial crisis, according to eVestment's count.
The interest this year has come despite a period that was nothing special return-wise. The funds that eVestment track saw a 2.63 percent gain, well below the S&P 500's 6.1 percent move for the first quarter. March's jump in cash accompanied returns of just 0.33 percent.
Moreover, investors have been putting their money in the wrong places so far.

Bernstein analyst Toni Sacconaghi shared his views on IBM and its first quarter earnings on CNBC's "Halftime Report" Wednesday.
On IBM's valuation: "It appears inexpensive on price-to-earnings, but I think, as you all noted, it does have net debt, and its cash flow is structurally weaker than its earnings," Sacconaghi said. "We think the cash flow has benefited from a number of one-time items like a lower tax rate and some sales of intellectual property, so the real, sort of, multiple is closer 16 or 17 times cash flow, which is simply too expensive for a company whose top line is structurally declining."
On IBM's financial results: "This is a company that overall is descaling. Revenue has been declining about 2 or 3 percent per year if you take out acquisitions and currency," he said. "And when a company descales, it's very, very difficult not to see profit pressure and that's really what we're seeing."
Sacconaghi is a senior research analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein, noted for his coverage of tech stocks. His picks have a 21.2 percent one-year average return with a 70 percent success rate, according to analyst ranking service TipRanks, placing him in the top 3 percent of all Wall Street analysts covering any industry.
He also discusses:
To watch the broadcast interview in its entirety, you must be a CNBC PRO subscriber.
What's ailing stocks? Traders have been staring at their hands for weeks now, and stocks — for the most part — have been drifting lower since hitting historic highs on March 1, the day after President Donald Trump spoke to Congress.
It's not like there's a panic. There has not been any intense selling pressure, but there has also been no buying interest. There's just been no real interest in the market, and you can see it in the volume: many days it has been 10-20 percent below normal levels.
What's going on? Several factors have combined to create a dangerous "stew" of uncertainty for stocks. There is not one issue, but throw them all together and you get a slow-motion, low-volume drift downward:
1) Fiscal reforms pushed out. Did you notice Trump, while in Milwaukee Tuesday, made a point of saying that, "[W]e're in very good shape on tax reform. We have the concept of the plan. We're going to be announcing it very soon," and the market shrugged it off? That would not have happened six weeks ago, when the mere mention of tax reform would send markets into an upward swoon. The honeymoon is over on tax cuts, less regulation, and infrastructure spending. And Trump again reiterated he would be tackling healthcare reform first — a nonstarter with the investment community.
2) Weaker "hard" economic data. From retail sales to the Consumer Price Index to the Producer Price Index, economic data has been weaker than anticipated. As a result, the odds for a Federal Reserve rate hike in June are now down to 44 percent, from close to 60 percent a little more than a week ago.
3) Geopolitical risks. The French election, a tougher stance on Brexit from the UK, and particularly North Korea were all background stories until the last few weeks.
4) Bond yields trending downward. This wasn't supposed to happen. The core principle of the "reflation trade" was, well, reflation. Commodity prices up. Bond yields up. Not now: after hitting multi-year highs of roughly 2.6 percent in December and March, 10-year yields dropped below 2.20 percent yesterday. True, shorter term rates have not dropped as much, but that has only flattened the yield curve, a big problem for banks who profit when the yield curve steepens. The cause is hotly debated, but it certainly reflects concerns about weaker data and geopolitical issues, and weaker bond yields in Europe have also put downward pressure on our yields as well.
5) Earnings. This is the most recent risk. Here's why: stocks are expensive. Valuations are high. The risk is to the downside. This leaves stocks very vulnerable to a selloff, particularly if there is even the slightest hint of an issue. If you don't believe me, look at what happened to Goldman Sachs yesterday, and to IBM today. IBM beat on the bottom line, and reaffirmed full-year guidance of $13.80. That's good news! Yet revenues were a tad light of expectations: $18.16 billion versus expectations of $18.40 billion, according to Factset, and the stock is down 5 percent today as headline writers swooned that revenues were now down 20 quarters in a row.


The market has been caught in a quiet correction for nearly two months, its once-hot sectors now well chilled and investor ebullience coming off the boil. The question now is how it ends – with a whimper or a bang.
Since the Standard & Poor's 500 all-time intraday high of 2,400 on March 1 – the day after President Donald Trump made his crowd-comforting speech to Congress – the index is off only about 2 percent, and at its late-March low was down a modest 3.2 percent.
Yet by last week, nearly half of all stocks in the broad S&P 1500 were down at least 10 percent from their 52-week high, the popular bank sector remains down that much and economically attuned groups such as transportation and steel have lagged badly.
The market's behaved like a football team that keeps punting on fourth-down short-yardage situations, confident that its defense can hold off the other team until the offense gets in gear. So far, the bulls have given up plenty of yards but not all that many points, thanks to strength in utilities, consumer staples, and mega-cap tech and other growth stocks.
Since around the time of the market high, the 10-year Treasury yield has ebbed to 2.2 percent from 2.6 percent, the CBOE S&P 500 Volatility Index (VIX) has climbed into the mid-teens from around 11 and the Atlanta Fed's GDPNow forecast model for first-quarter growth has tumbled to 0.5 percent from 2.5 percent. Investor attitudes have also run from excessive bullishness to a warier outlook, with weekly investment-advisor polls, the CNNMoney Fear & Greed Index and the Bank of America Merrill Lynch Global Fund Manager Survey suggesting that the so-called wall of worry is gradually being rebuilt.
This subtle but noteworthy change in market character means we're again at a point where market handicappers are asking whether the market's internal weakness has been dramatic enough, with enough "oversold" conditions popping up, to set up a strong rebound. So far, according to close students of tactical market clues, the answer is "Close, but not quite."
Katie Stockton, technical strategist at BTIG, says last Thursday's high-volume sell-off sent some of her preferred indicators to extreme readings that often set up a good rebound. Yet, she concludes that "down-volume was strong enough to suggest the pullback still has a hold on the market." Confident that the longer-term market uptrend remains intact, she says, "We remain on the lookout for a buying opportunity, which appears more likely after a shakeout in high-beta areas of the market."
Nobody is taking a bigger beating on the slide in IBM shares than Warren Buffett.
The billionaire Oracle of Omaha is the largest shareholder — through his Berkshire Hathaway — of the information technology behemoth, whose stock has been sliding since it recorded its 20th-straight quarterly revenue decline after the closing bell Tuesday.
With the loss of nearly $10 a share in morning trading Wednesday, Buffett's losses are around $812 million.
Of course, that's a paper calculation and could change depending on what Berkshire has done since the last regulatory filing period. However, the losses are still substantial.
Berkshire Hathaway's 81.2 million shares represent about 8.6 percent of total shares outstanding, according to CapitalIQ.
Don't weep too much for Buffett, though — when considering dividends, he's made out just fine. The payout so far this year has come to a healthy total of nearly $1.8 billion, assuming his ownership stake hasn't changed. Excluding dividends, the stock is about $10 below the $170 that is his current breakeven level.
IBM actually topped Wall Street expectations on the bottom line, earning $2.38 a share against estimates of $2.35. However, top-line revenue fell short at $18.16 billion compared with the $18.39 billion anticipated according to Thomson Reuters estimates.
"The portfolio will grow. I am confident that the IBM company will grow again," IBM Chief Financial Officer Martin Schroeter told CNBC.
—CNBC's Alex Crippen contributed to this report.
Watch: Bezos passes Buffett as 2nd richest man
Closely watched strategist Mark Grant is again swimming against the tide, warning against investing in European stocks at a time when many Wall Street money managers are advising the opposite.
"Too much risk in Europe," the contrarian investor said Wednesday, citing such concerns as a snap election call in Britain, Sunday's presidential voting in France, and dire financial situations in Italy and Greece.
"I want nothing to do with investing there at present," the Hilltop Securities chief strategist told CNBC's "Squawk Box."
While acknowledging technical and fundamental analyses make European stocks look interesting, "it's the event-driven horizon — that's the scary part," Grant argued.
Grant singled out the French presidential election as a real worry: "You have a nightmare scenario occurring in France."
He said he's concerned about the policies of two of the leading candidates, far-left firebrand Jean-Luc Melenchon and far-right leader Marine Le Pen.
"Melenchon wants to be able to borrow all the money he wants. ... Le Pen wants to leave the European Union altogether," he said. "Either of those two as the president of France would be a disaster for the European Union."
In addition to Melenchon and Le Pen, conservative Francois Fillon and centrist Emmanuel Macron were all in the margin of error in the latest polls. If no candidate wins a majority on Sunday, the top two finishers face a runoff on May 7.
Grant also called the Italian banking system "effectively a bust," and said the debt-to-GDP ratio in Greece is over 300 percent.
Department store stocks have tumbled 13 percent since the chains started reporting holiday sales results last month. But the struggling retail segment may soon be poised for a rally.
Despite long-term threats from declining store traffic, a shift in consumer spending toward the web and off-price stores, and weak sales trends, Morgan Stanley analyst Kimberly Greenberger said these chains could experience a rally after they report fourth-quarter results next week.
That's because investors' views on the group are so pessimistic, and it will be facing its easiest first-quarter comparisons since the recession in 2008 and 2009. In particular, Greenberger upgraded J.C. Penney shares from underweight to equal weight, citing less risk given their double-digit decline this year. Still, the analyst cautioned that any bounce in the space would likely be short-lived.
"We've seen the 'easy compare' script before," Greenberger said, referring to the third and fourth quarters of 2016. "[We] would use any strength into first quarter earnings per share prints in May to trim positions."
Macy's kicks off department store earnings reports on Feb. 21. Expectations for the sector are already dim, as Macy's, Kohl's and Penney's previously reported lower comparable store sales for November and December. Instead, analysts will be watching the companies' fiscal 2017 guidance.
Investors will also be eyeing Macy's for updates regarding a potential sale. Barron's said the chain's shares could rise 50 percent if it were to be acquired. This assessment followed reports that the retailer is exploring a sale. Yet even with a spike in share prices following those reports, Macy's stock is down nearly 9 percent this year.
Cowen & Co. analyst Oliver Chen told investors that even if a deal were to come through (Saks' parent Hudson's Bay was rumored as a potential buyer), Macy's fundamental challenges would not disappear.
"A buyer would likely need to be excited or prepared to execute better than current management with respect to a turnaround," Chen said.
Shares of Hain Celestial Group plummeted Monday after the company disclosed the Securities Exchange Commission is investigating its accounting practices.
The stock opened down more than 13 percent. It later recovered some of those losses, but still ended the day more than 8 percent lower.
In a regulatory filing Friday,  the food company said the SEC issued a subpoena "seeking relevant documents" following a delay of the company's earnings report.
The company said it is in the process of responding to the agency's request and intends to cooperate fully.
Hain contacted the SEC in August to advise it about the delay in filing the quarterly report and about an independent review by an audit committee, according to the filing.
In November, the company said it found no evidence of intentional wrongdoing in connection with its financial statements.
The stock is down more than 1 percent in the past year.
There's been a big shift in the way stocks are moving, but it's one many investors may have missed.
Since Donald Trump's election, the correlation of the average S&P 500 sector to the S&P 500 as a whole has fallen dramatically. Or to put it more simply, different groups of stocks are following their own separate tunes to an extent that they haven't for years.
"For the entire time from the financial crisis through the election last year, assets in the U.S. market all traded largely the same way," Nicholas Colas, chief market strategist at Convergex, said Friday on CNBC's "Trading Nation." "Now, sectors are moving a lot more based on their own fundamentals, and it's really the first time since 2009 since we've seen it."
"It's really a big change," Colas added.

One potential explanation for the shift — which Colas says he "chalk[s] up entirely to Donald Trump's victory" — is that the president's potential economic policies could create winners and losers. For instance, a greater tax on imported goods would be good news for U.S. manufacturers that compete with foreign companies, but trouble for retailers that import much of their inventory from abroad.
Whatever the cause, the decline in correlations has a few profound effects.
First of all, it dampens overall S&P 500 volatility, which makes sense insofar as declining correlations mean that one sector will provide a "balance" for another. Working off the above example, if a drop in consumer discretionary stocks offsets a rise in industrials, the overall effect on the market will be muted.
Indeed, by many different measures, S&P volatility is the lowest it's ever been.
Second, "Getting sector and stock bets right just got a whole lot more serious," as Colas put it in a Friday note. If one sector performs very differently from another, investing in the right one becomes that much more important. This means active managers can stand to make much more off their bets, though it also means they can stand to lose more (relative to the overall market).
"People always think that you've got to have the hot guy with the hot stocks, but the really good long-term investor is someone who also avoids the bad ones, and there's more of them out there than there have been in the past," Miller Tabak equity strategist Matt Maley said Friday on "Trading Nation."
So you've decided exchange-traded funds sound like a great way to build a low-cost investment portfolio. The question is, what now?
Financial advisors say that before you start buying ETFs, it's important to fully grasp their nuances, because like any investment, they are far from risk-free.
Macy's could see its shares rise by 50 percent in a potential sale, as the struggling retailer looks to turn around its business by downsizing its physical store operations and reinvesting in its online presence, Barron's said on Sunday.
The Cincinnati-based company, which in recent years has become the sixth-largest online retailer, is a bargain for investors despite Wall Street's gloomy outlook with management's plans to close 100 underperforming stores, which could increase its stock by 20 to 30 percent.
It also plans to cut up to 10,000 jobs out of a total 157,900. That could reduce costs by $550 million annually, freeing up funds to invest in the company's growing online business.
Earlier this month, Hudson's Bay made a takeover approach for the retailer in an effort to further push into the U.S. market, according to people familiar with the matter.
A potential sale, particularly one with a spin-off of the company's real estate assets, could boost Macy's stock to $45 to $50, the report added. On Friday, its stock closed at $31.99.
Macy's property portfolio is estimated to be worth as much as $21 billion. It has around 900 stores in the United States, which includes its Bloomingdale's outlets and its flagship store in New York City's Herald Square.
Investors should buy Hasbro shares because its earnings results will top expectations in the coming year, according to Goldman Sachs, which initiated on the toy company with a buy rating.
"Hasbro is a best-in-class toy company with a strong portfolio of entertainment-driven products including Marvel, Star Wars, Disney Princess, and Transformers," analyst Michael Ng wrote in a note to clients Monday. The company has "pricing power, as evidenced by its high and stable gross margins, makes it well positioned to manage near-term inflationary risks."Hasbro reported better-than-expected fourth quarter earnings on Feb. 6.
The stock market's historic win streak could be in jeopardy.
NorthmanTrader.com founder Sven Henrich has spotted a menacing trend affecting the S&P 500 Index, which last week scaled to record peaks along with other major indexes.
Henrich's latest chart shows fewer and fewer stocks moving above their 50 day moving averages. It's the same situation which appeared right before stocks saw a serious pullback in Summer 2015, according to Henrich, a widely followed market watcher.
On "Fast Money, this week, he predicted history will repeat itself.
"In December, we had about 80 percent of stocks above the 50 day moving average. In January, it was about 75. Yesterday [Wednesday], it was actually just in the low 60s," said Henrich. "So, 40 percent of stocks were not even above their 50 day [moving average]. So, that shows underlying weakness as we are stretching to go to higher prices."

He's been deep in the bear camp for most of the past year. Last May, he predicted the S&P could sink as low as 1,573 within months. The scenario never materialized, and the stock market began registering all-time highs.
Yet, Henrich is standing firm and telling investors that the rally is on borrowed time.  He's forecasting a 6 - 10 percent pullback that'll come this spring. Based on current S&P levels, it would bring the index around the 2100-2175 level.
"We're seeing a repeating of a pattern that we've seen a number of times in the last couple of years when we make new highs," said Henrich. "Prices make highs, and volume dies... January volume was very low and volume right now on these new highs is not extremely impressive."
According to Henrich, there's been an 'incredible' increase in price-to-earnings ratios on multiple levels. "Basically, we're running about 17 to 25 percent above the ten year average," he said.
He also highlights issues stemming from historic and unsustainable low volatility. It's a situation, he says, that doesn't bode well for sustainable breakouts to new highs.
And, Henrich warns that the stock market winners are highly stretched, adding to the probability of a sizable sell-off.
Yet, there could be some light at the end of this bearish call, and it all has to do with new policies coming out of the Trump administration.
"The real battle for this market becomes whether all these tax cuts and infrastructure spending actually pan out in terms of an earnings growth story," said Henrich.
The stock-market bears are starting to give up, investing expert Michael Yoshikami told CNBC on Friday.
"The sentiment out there is just really, really switching. The markets are more broadly based in terms of their rallies," the founder and CEO of Destination Wealth Management said in an interview with CNBC's "Closing Bell."
"So, I think the market does have the opportunity to go higher even if the fundamentals maybe don't support it so much."
Equities hit new record highs on Friday, a day after President Donald Trump promised to release a tax plan in the near future.
While the market has climbed higher since Trump won the election, Yoshikami believes more people are now starting to get into the game.
However, the one thing the market isn't doing is taking into account potential instabilities, private investor Evan Newmark told "Closing Bell."
Right now, investors are "seeing everything glass half full," like tax cuts — and not trade wars, he said.
"The market right now is susceptible to frankly the president doing something kind of silly," said Newmark, also a CNBC contributor. "I don't want to say something bad is going to happen, but bad things happen every year. You just don't know when they are going to happen."
While valuations for small- and mid-cap stocks are in "nosebleed territory," there are still a few areas that are nowhere near all-time highs on a relative basis like oil and miner stocks, he noted.
Independent investing consultant David Darst, former chief investment strategist with Morgan Stanley Wealth Management, thinks equities may be reaching a turning point.
"The market has been slow, slowly climbing up over a pass. We're either going to enter sunlit uplands — further heights — or a desert below," he said in an interview with "Closing Bell."
Because there is not an excess of euphoria, he remains constructive on the market for the long term.
— CNBC's Fred Imbert contributed to this report.
Disclaimer

President Donald Trumpmet with the executives of motorcycle titans Harley-Davidson last week, but Jim Cramer warned that this might be the one industry where government protection could be more of a hindrance than a help for the company.
"They need to keep taking share from the competition or they need to expand into other markets. In other words, they need trade," the "Mad Money" host said.
However, given that Trump seems to be more engaged with business leaders than any other president he can recall, he pondered if the motorcycle companies even need Trump's help and if the White House could even boost sales.
Jim Cramer knows that defense contractors are in a position to benefit under Donald Trump's administration, but he says that Kratos Defense and Security Systems is right in the sweet spot and ready to roar higher.
Kratos is mainly involved in making unmanned systems, the kind used for targeting for drones, along with microwave electronics, electronic warfare, military-grade cybersecurity, satellite communications, missile defense and combat systems.
Most of its work is performed on a military base, in a secure facility or at a central intelligence location. Basically, it is focused on the most cutting-edge technology.
It is also too small and too low-profile to get the attention of Trump, which is the reason the speculative stock is up 48 percent since the election.
"The move here is logical, but at these levels, I would recommend staying on the sidelines. I hate to chase and that is what you would be doing if we buy Kratos up here," the "Mad Money" host said.
However, on a significant pullback or clarity on Trump's defense spending, Cramer said to be prepared to pounce on Kratos.

Taser is the company known for non-lethal stun guns used by law enforcement. With the stock up more than 12 percent this year and 75 percent in the past year.
Cramer attributed some of the strength behind Taser to it expanding into new areas. Taser makes technology to capture evidence, including body cameras and audio recorders and sells evidence management software to help police and prosecutors store and compile data.
Cramer spoke with Taser's CEO Rick Smith, who said he plans to expand the technology to help police offers transcribe reports.
"The average police officer spends two-thirds of their day sitting at a keyboard typing. We believe the technology is there today that police reports should be recorded, not written by some cop on a keyboard. We've got the video. Let's transcribe it and make the police report from there," Smith said.
Cramer thinks the averages could continue to roar higher next week, but recommended keeping one eye on tweets from President Donald Trump, and the other on earnings.
"Remember, if rates are up and oil is up, then the tone of the tape will be positive," Cramer said.
That should free up investors to trade some of the names on Cramer's radar next week. He outlined some of the stocks he will be watching:
T-Mobile: Cramer is willing to bet that CEO John Legere will deliver a strong quarter. He thinks the company can keep its momentum going without having to merge with another company.
"Be aware that there have been occasions where T-Mobile has reported a blowout quarter and the stock has sold off," Cramer said.
Diamondback: With the fastest growth of any of the Texas oil plays, Cramer said this stock will work as a trade.
Retail and restaurant stocks had a lift on Friday, but Jim Cramer remained skeptical, and warned that they are too toxic to touch.
"The new stay-at-home economy is precisely what scares me about these stocks that depend on people going out," the "Mad Money" host explained.
Activision Blizzard, the world's largest maker of video games reported a monster quarter on Thursday, sending the stock up 18 percent on Friday. Nvidia makes gaming chips, and also reported an insanely great number. Netflix hit a 52-week high, and so did Domino's Pizza, with Amazon bouncing back behind it.

Jim Cramer thinks the averages could continue to roar higher next week, but recommended keeping one eye on tweets from President Donald Trump, and the other on earnings.
"Remember, if rates are up and oil is up, then the tone of the tape will be positive," the "Mad Money" host said.
That should free up investors to trade some of the names on Cramer's radar next week. He outlined the stocks he will be watching:

Monday: Teva Pharmaceuticals, Noble Energy
Teva: This stock is right up there with Valeant on Cramer's list, and he is worried about the company's balance sheet after it doubled down and paid $40 billion for Allergan's generic business at peak.
Noble: This company could tip investors off on how oil stocks are really doing now that OPEC appears to be pretty serious about supply cuts.
Tuesday: T-Mobile, Diamondback Energy
T-Mobile: Cramer is willing to bet that CEO John Legere will deliver a strong quarter. He thinks the company can keep its momentum going without having to merge with another company.
"Be aware that there have been occasions where T-Mobile has reported a blowout quarter and the stock has sold off," Cramer said.
Diamondback: With the fastest growth of any of the Texas oil plays, Cramer said this stock will work as a trade.
Wednesday: PepsiCo, Applied Materials, CBS
PepsiCo: Unlike Coca-Cola, which reported a quarter that wasn't very exciting, Cramer expects PepsiCo to shine because of its snack business. With PepsiCo playing the stay-at-home thesis that is sweeping the country, Cramer expects good things.
Applied Materials: Cramer thinks it will deliver better-than-expected results, given how well the chip business is doing and how well Lam Research has done.
CBS: This stock is always a crowd pleaser. Cramer expects CEO Les Moonves to have positive things to say about ratings, programs and distribution. Sometimes the stock responds negatively to positive news, but then turns right back up. Cramer anticipates it won't be different.
Thursday: MGM Resorts, Zoetis
MGM Resorts: With good news coming out of China on gambling and a surge in new casino gambling in Vegas, MGM could report great numbers that could send the stock above the $28 to $30 range finally.
Zoetis: The humanization of pets theme has also driven stocks like Idexx Laboratories higher. Thus, this animal and livestock drug company could post better than expected numbers.
Friday: Campbell Soup, Deere, VF Corp
Campbell: This stock is a real conundrum for Cramer. Its last quarter was disappointing, but the stock has been climbing since, as if someone has taken a large position in the stock in order to influence management.
"The Dorrance family owns a big chunk of it, but the stock just acts too well for me to believe it's being propelled by itself," Cramer said.
Deere: It might not even matter what Deere says on Friday. The industrial agriculture cohort continues to trade up, and Cramer says Deere could paint a better worldwide picture for investors.
VF Corp: This stock has been absolutely horrendous, but it seems like it is trying to bottom. Cramer didn't have a case to own it other than management possibility announcing an acquisition or break-up.
Questions for Cramer?Call Cramer: 1-800-743-CNBC
Want to take a deep dive into Cramer's world? Hit him up! Mad Money Twitter -  Jim Cramer Twitter - Facebook - Instagram - Vine
Questions, comments, suggestions for the "Mad Money" website? madcap@cnbc.com


The Nasdaq 100 has rallied more than 7 percent year to date, and just this week notched a record close, with the help of its largest component, Apple.
With a weight in the index of about 12 percent, the tech giant has served as the biggest contributor to the Nasdaq 100 this year, adding nearly twice as much to the index as second-biggest contributor Facebook.
So far this year, Apple has surged more than 14 percent, with the bulk of those gains coming after the company's earnings report handily bested analysts' expectations. Apple's surge has been good for a roughly 1.7 percent rally in the large-tech index.
The outlook for Apple remains bullish, said Gina Sanchez, CEO of Chantico Global. But she's looking for "innovation" from the company.
"Apple has been really undervalued for most of 2016. Apple has had high dividends, it has had good growth, and it has also had a great buyback program that has been buoying stocks. The problem going forward is that now that the move is done, now that you've gone from 10 times to 15 times earnings, where do you go from here?" Sanchez said Thursday on CNBC's "Trading Nation."
"You really have to continue to see growth in Apple revenue, and the problem is they haven't really unveiled anything really beyond new iPhones," Sanchez added.
The company in its latest quarterly earnings release reported it sold more than 78 million iPhones, exceeding analysts' expectations; the news sent the stock surging more than 6 percent. Apple is expected to release its next iPhone later this year.
"We don't think it's certainly overvalued, I mean it's maybe a little overbought, but it's certainly not overvalued where it is, but we need to see a reason to get excited for the next leg of growth," Sanchez said.
While Apple is the Nasdaq 100 behemoth, Gibbs said investors shouldn't neglect other tech heavies in the index.
"There's still another 90 percent of weight of companies in the Nasdaq 100, and you get companies like Google, Microsoft. So I definitely see value in that diversification versus Apple that is really so tied to what it's doing with its iPhone sales," Gibbs said, adding that expectations for the newest iPhone are already quite high.
"You might want to look at what other companies are doing up until then," Gibbs said.
Analysts currently give Apple an average rating of overweight, with an average price target of $140.70 on the now-$132 stock, according to FactSet estimates.
Copper prices leaped more than 4 percent Friday after a strike at the world's largest copper mine raised expectations of tighter supply.
Workers at BHP Billiton's Escondida mine in Chile walked off the job Thursday in a wage dispute and are building a campsite right outside the mine, Reuters reported. The newswire also said the workers' union has stockpiled supplies and provisions for 60 days.
Copper futures contracts for March delivery hit a session high of $2.771 a pound, the highest since May 29, 2015.
With gains of nearly 4.4 percent midday Friday, the metal was tracking for its best day since Sept. 8, 2015.  Copper is up more than 5.5 percent for the week.
Copper prices 5-year performance

Source: FactSet
The metal had already been on the rise ahead of the planned Escondida strike. Processing plants began going offline Wednesday and have completely stopped, the union told Reuters.
Separate issues at the world's second-largest copper mine in Indonesia also look set to hit production, and analysts expect the disruptions to reduce the global supply of copper by about 8 percent.
Traders also eyed overnight news from China, the world's largest consumer of the metal, to gauge the future balance of supply and demand.
China reported January trade figures that were strong overall but showed a sharp drop in copper imports from December.
"This slowdown in copper imports signals waning demand in the face of increasing rates and slower manufacturing," Bart Melek, global head of commodity strategy at TD Securities, wrote in a Friday note.
"These numbers provide further evidence that if the supply disruptions at the two largest copper mines do not last long term, then there is little reason to justify the extreme spec length and prices between $5,800-6,100 /t (~$2.63 - $2.67 /lb.), and we expect a reversal towards $5300/t ($2.40 /lb.)," Melek said.
Shares of CB Richard Ellis Group jumped 7 percent Thursday after the commercial real estate company posted earnings that beat Street expectations.
CBRE reported earnings of 93 cents per share on revenue of $3.8 billion, while analysts expected earnings of 80 cents per share on revenue of $3.89 billion, according to Thomson Reuters consensus estimates.
The commercial real estate company's CEO, Bob Sulentic, spoke about the double-digit growth for CBRE's fourth quarter.
"We ended 2016 on a high note," said Bob Sulentic, CBRE's president and chief executive officer. "CBRE recorded double-digit adjusted earnings growth for the fourth quarter and the year, with excellent performance in all three regional services businesses."
Stripping out the foreign exchange impact, its adjusted earnings per share rose 19 percent year-over-year in the fourth quarter.
CBRE also sees earnings of $2.35 per share to $2.45 per share for its full-year 2017 guidance, but anticipates growth to be "constrained by a 6-cent per share headwind from adverse foreign currency movement."
The retail sector has been experiencing a significant slump lately, but for one noted investor it's a great time to get into the space.
A number of retailers dealt with a difficult holiday shopping season that saw giants like Macy's struggle, though the NRF reported that sales were up 4 percent, above estimates of 3.6 percent. There is also concern over a possible border adjustment tax proposed by Republicans that could hit retailers hard.
However, Larry McDonald, managing director at ACG Analytics, believes the border adjustment tax will likely be just an "updated outline" of what was provided this past summer.
"This Senate is toxic, guys. This tax bill is light-years away from happening, and even when it does happen, let's just say it does pass ... the tax cuts on the individual side and on the corporate side eventually will ... outweigh the border adjustment tax negative on retail," he said in an interview with CNBC's "Halftime Report" on Friday.
The SPDR S&P Retail ETF is down 0.43 percent year to date. The ETF got a boost from Nordstrom this week after President Trump tweeted at the company for dropping his daughter Ivanka's brand from its stores. Shares are up 2.14 percent for the week.
"Here's the key number: 24. The retail space over the last 24 months is underperforming the S&P by 24 percent — the most significant underperformance for the retail sector since the 1990s recession. The risk reward is fantastic," McDonald said. "Get long retail."

UBS Wealth Management told investors dividends "still, and always, matter" and shared a list of dividend stocks the firm recommends for its clients. "Dividend paying stocks should benefit from demographics as aging Baby Boomers seek income growth in a low interest rate environment," investment strategist Jeremy Zirin wrote in the report Monday. "Strong balance sheets, solid free cash flow generation, and low dividend payout ratios support corporations' ability to fund continued dividend growth."The strategist cited how in the past 100 years, dividends equated to about 50 percent of the total return of the stock market. He expects dividends to be a "higher component of equity market total return after stocks have largely erased significant undervaluation over the past eight years."UBS recommended its "Dividend Ruler" stock strategy, which consists of companies with strong track records of dividend growth and a positive fundamental outlook according to the firm's research team. The strategy cumulatively returned 229 percent since inception in 2003 versus the S&P 500's 191 percent performance. Here is a selection of five stocks that made the firm's "Dividend Ruler" recommended list.
Canaccord Genuity on Friday downgraded Intel to hold from buy given the potential for margins to compress as the chipmaker ventures into new markets to seek growth.
"We agree with management's long-term decision to invest for growth; however, turning a battleship like Intel takes time and we believe other stocks we cover will generate more attractive returns during this period of prolonged transition …," equity analyst Matthew Ramsay wrote in a research note.
He says Intel is likely to get "caught between the proverbial rock and a hard place" as the firm tries to overcome "peak" PC margins and margin compression in its data center group (DCG).
"We concede Intel shares generate a strong yield and remain inexpensive, but we believe shares could remain range bound as margins stagnate and until investors see proof of new investments …," he said.
Skechers shares jumped on Friday after the company reported a fourth-quarter revenue beat and a stronger-than-expected sales guidance for the current quarter.
The stock ended the day 19 percent higher.
The shoe retailer reported fourth-quarter revenue of $764.3 million on Thursday, while a consensus of analysts polled by Thomson Reuters expected $723.7 million. The California-based company also saw its comparable same-stores sales rise 3.6 percent. Analysts expected comparable same-store sales to remain flat, according to FactSet.
Earnings disappointed at 4 cents per share for the fourth quarter, below estimates of 9 cents per share.
"The strong quarterly growth was primarily the result of a 17.1 percent increase in our international wholesale business, led by China with an increase of 48.5 percent," David Weinberg, COO and CFO of Skechers, said in a press release on Thursday.
The company also released its guidance for the 2017 first quarter, expecting net sales to be between $1.05 and $1.08 billion. Analysts had expected sales of $1.04 billion, according to Thomson Reuters.
However, Skechers announced a weaker-than-expected bottom-line for the coming first quarter, with earnings expected to range from 50 to 55 cents per share, lower than the estimated 63 cents per share.
Nevertheless, the company remained optimistic: "We expect that 2017, Skechers' 25th year of business, will be an even more remarkable in terms of product and sales," said CEO Robert Greenberg in a press release.
Investors should buy Twitter shares on rising usage trends from its video-related product offerings, according to Jefferies, which reiterated its buy rating on the social media company.Twitter shares fell 12 percent Thursday after the social media company gave disappointing earnings guidance in its fourth-quarter earnings report."We continue to believe that TWTR's position as the place to go for Live updates has value and relevancy in today's social landscape," analyst Brian Fitzgerald wrote in a note to clients Friday. "TWTR's international reach, highly engaged user base, and strong push into Live video especially on mobile positions it well for the continued shift of advertising dollars online. '17 will be a year for increased engagement on the platform which advertiser dollars will follow in 2H & beyond."
The analyst's view differed from at least seven other Wall Street firms such as Cowen, which downgraded Twitter shares after the earnings report.
JPMorgan Chase CEO Jamie Dimon wasn't the only big name on Wall Street buying shares as the market was tumbling last February.
Dimon famously bought 500,000 shares of his company's stock — right before the market began to climb for the rest of the year and into 2017.
The bold move became known as the "Dimon Bottom," but Dimon wasn't alone. Warren Buffett, Treasury Secretary nominee Steven Mnuchin, Elon Musk and casino magnate Steve Wynn all made investments that week, profiting millions of dollars as the stock market began a rally that has seen the S&P 500 surge 24.6 percent.

A popular retail exchange-traded fund is on pace for its best week since early December, and some strategists say retail stocks could see more upside.
The broader macroeconomic trends are quite bullish for retail names, said Gina Sanchez, CEO of Chantico Global. Citing economics research firm Oxford Economics, Sanchez said the economy is going to continue to expand this year. Retail sales can be viewed as a way to gauge economic health.
"But we think that big bounce is going to be a huge driver because of a lot of the retail sector is largely overvalued," Sanchez said Thursday on CNBC's "Power Lunch."
The SPDR S&P Retail ETF (XRT) is down nearly 1 percent this year, but it's up 1.65 percent this week, putting it on pace for its best week since its 5.11 percent gain for the week ending Dec. 9.  It has risen 13.5 percent over the last year.
Retailers had been under pressure with the potential for a proposed tax plan by congressional Republicans to negatively impact the group. Such a plan would more heavily tax retailers that source their goods from abroad.
However, President Donald Trump said in a recent interview with The Wall Street Journal the tax plan appears "too complicated," raising uncertainty about its prospects.
And as investors await more quarterly earnings reports from retailers, the group is expecting about 13 percent earnings growth, said Erin Gibbs, equity chief investment officer at S&P Global.

"That's higher than we've seen in the past previous four years. It's higher than the S&P 500 and higher than consumer discretionary in general, so overall they're looking very attractive," Gibbs said Thursday on "Power Lunch."
Much of that growth comes from online retailers and direct marketers, Gibbs said. Amazon last week reported a quarterly earnings miss on revenue and earnings per share and offered weaker-than-expected guidance. A more traditional retailer, Michael Kors, last week reported a larger-than-expected decline in quarterly comparable sales (the amount of revenue at a retailer's location compared to the amount of revenue it generated the previous quarter), citing weaker sales in North America and Europe.
Jim Cramer says the stocks that are winning in the market are those with companies in control of their own destiny. It is even worse if the companies are working against the cyclical patterns.
"They need a rising tide to lift their stocks and after this run, that is not something I want to bank on," the "Mad Money" host said.
Coca-Cola was added to the list of companies not in charge of its own destiny because its main product, soda, is not the growth business that it used to be. Coke did take action to become leaner off-loading its bottlers, but Cramer said it doesn't have a model that can put the company in control.
On the other hand, PepsiCo has a snack business bringing in money and is a true growth company, Cramer said. CEO Indra Nooyi is in control of PepsiCo's destiny, and that is why Cramer thinks the stock should sell at a large premium compared to Coca-Cola.
To fully understand how the stock of private-label king TreeHouse Foods surged more than 12 percent on Thursday, one must take a look at its history with Conagra Brands.
TreeHouse has a long history of making smart acquisitions. However, some investors were displeased a little over a year ago when the company announced it was buying the private-label cereal business called Ralcorp from Conagra for $2.7 billion.
That was a lot less than what Conagra paid for it in 2013, but the view of Ralcorp was that it was not a winner. So, when TreeHouse last reported three months ago, the results were light, and shares of TreeHouse fell.
Hence, it was a huge surprise for Wall Street when TreeHouse knocked earnings out of the park on Thursday. CEO Sam Reed told "Mad Money" host Jim Cramer that the company realized it was too focused on the carve-out from ConAgra in the previous quarter.
"Once we realized that was taking people away from their day jobs we got that group back and in a fury they went about their business," Reed said.
Markets have something new to look forward to — a Trump tax announcement — and that will be something that will be gamed by traders for the next several weeks.
Before Thursday, stocks were a bit sluggish this week, bond yields slidto mid-January lows and the dollar wasn't all that perky. But gold was having a good rally. Part of the reason was that the postelection promise of tax reform, one of the key drivers of stocks, looked less and less likely to be fulfilled this year.
But just oneline from President Donald Trump reversed that and sent stocks flying to new highs. Bond yields snapped back and the dollar rose. Trump promised a "phenomenal" tax plan "in the next two or three weeks," during a meeting with airline executives at the White House.
Jim Cramer says the stocks that are winning in the market are those with companies in control of their own destiny. It is even worse if the companies are working against the cyclical patterns.
"They need a rising tide to lift their stocks and after this run, that is not something I want to bank on," the "Mad Money" host said.
Coca-Cola was added to the list of companies not in charge of its own destiny because its main product, soda, is not the growth business that it used to be. Coke did take action to become leaner off-loading its bottlers, but Cramer said it doesn't have a model that can put the company in control.
Jim Cramer hates talking about bonds. He knows they are boring, but on a day when the averages vaulted higher, bonds are all that matter.
"These days when rates go higher, it's game on for a host of stocks, particularly the ones that have languished as of late, like the cyclicals, the retailers and most important, the banks," the "Mad Money" host said.
Bonds are simple. When they are sold in large quantities, interest rates go higher. When they are bought aggressively, interest rates go lower.
Insurance stocks rose sharply Thursday as a memo circulated by Rep. Jeb Hensarling, R-Texas, said proposed legislation would no longer deem those companies "too big to fail."
In the years after the financial crisis, the Financial Stability Oversight Council, a consortium of regulators, labeled AIG, MetLife and Prudential as "systemically important" to the economy – meaning a failure of one of those companies would have far-reaching effects.
But Hensarling's memo, obtained by CNBC, listed among other things a commitment to "remove remaining nonbank SIFI references."
Large banks, it appears, will still fall into that category, which carries hefty regulatory costs, strict government oversight and the need to carry excess capital in order to avoid being bailed out in a crisis.
After years of strong performance  Salesforce.com CEO Marc Benioff has earned the right to be taken at face value, Jim Cramer says.
Shares of Salesforce fell more than 4 percent on Thursday after it reported what Wall Street viewed as disappointing guidance for its third quarter.
"When a person with an exemplary record of beating the highest of expectations slips up and tells it like it is, blaming his team and, more important, himself for the miss, you give him the benefit of the doubt," the "Mad Money" host said.
Because the stock sports a high price-to-earnings multiple and guided down, Cramer understood why investors would want to sell.
On the surface, Cramer found Salesforce's quarter good. It did report better-than-expected revenue and earnings, and it raised its full-year revenue forecast.
However, it left no doubt to Cramer that next quarter miss expectations, with revenues projected to come in at $2.11 to $2.12 billion, versus the $2.13 billion investors expected.
Lululemon needed to be perfect.
With Wall Street anticipating the athletic wear maker's return to gross margin and earnings growth in the fiscal second quarter, there wasn't any room for a comparable sales miss or weak outlook. So when the company reported soft results in both of those metrics, Lululemon's shares — which are up more than 46 percent year-to-date — slid more than 8 percent in extended trading.
Lululemon earned an adjusted 38 cents per share in its fiscal second quarter, on revenue of $515 million. Those results were in line with analysts expectations, according to Thomson Reuters forecasts. They also marked an increase from the prior-year-quarter, with earnings per share rising by 4 cents.
But same-store sales for the Candian yoga wear retailer disappointed, rising 5 percent on a constant-currency basis. Analysts had anticipated a 5.8 percent uptick in this metric, according to FactSet.
Meanwhile, the Canadian yoga wear retailer said it expects third-quarter revenue of $535 million to $545 million. The lower end of that guidance was below analysts' expectations, which called for $542 million, according to a Thomson Reuters consensus estimate.
The company also gave somewhat weak third-quarter earnings per share guidance, in a range of 42 cents to 44 cents a share. Wall Street expected the top end of that range, according to the Thomson Reuters estimate.
Nonetheless, CEO Laurent Potdevin reiterated the company's goals to double its 2015 revenue and earnings by 2020.
"Our progress in the second quarter, especially in gross margin and inventory, marks the beginning of our recovery in profitability and sustainable long term growth," Potdevin said in a statement.
Indeed, the second quarter marked the first time since first quarter 2014 that the company's gross margin expanded. This metric had been weighed down by inefficient sourcing and logistics, including an over-reliance on air freight. It had also been pressured by excess inventories that led to additional markdowns.
The retailer was able to limit the number of discounts it offered during the second quarter, and said its gross margin improvement has continued into the current three-month period. Its updated women's pants assortment continues to log double-digit sales gains, while its sport bras and tank tops improved and recorded gains.
Yet traffic continued to be weak, and the company's comparable-sales gain was driven by higher prices.
Also Thursday, Potdevin said Lululemon launched in August its first small-format local concept shop, in Colorado. It plans to roll out more of these 1,000- to 2,000-square-foot locations in mountain and beach communities, Potdevin said.
—CNBC's Richard Washington contributed to this report
Shares of Salesforce.com dropped more than 4 percent Thursday after the company reported disappointing guidance for its current quarter.
Late Wednesday, the cloud tech company gave third-quarter earnings guidance in a range of 20 cents to 21 cents a share, compared to analysts' expectations of 24 cents per share, according to FactSet.
Salesforce also said it expects third-quarter revenue to come in around $2.11 billion to $2.12 billion. Analysts were expecting $2.12 billion, according to FactSet.
Marc Benioff told CNBC that foreign exchange fluctuations and poor internal execution were to blame for its warning about third-quarter revenue.
"Not only did we have Brexit, but we have this precipitous fall of the great British pound, which is how we roll up our European currencies," Benioff said. "That dramatically affected our revenue in the quarter. In fact, we've lost $150 million in revenue for the year through this foreign exchange change.
The weakened guidance "implies further billings deceleration" for the third quarter, wrote Joel P. Fishbein, Jr. of BTIG in an analyst note published Thursday.
Despite the guidance letdown, BTIG maintained its "buy" rating and a $100 price target, implying a 25.9 percent upside from the stock's Wednesday close of $79.42.
"We still think greater than 20 percent billings growth is achievable for the full year, but we may see near-term volatility in the stock as investors debate the issue," wrote Fishbein.
Salesforce's adjusted second-quarter earnings beat estimates by 2 cents, at 24 cents per share. Revenue of $2.04 billion was slightly above forecasts.
-CNBC's Matthew J. Belvedere contributed to this report.
A report Thursday from longtime Jefferies equity strategist Steven DeSanctis contained a really interesting statistic: The number of common stocks traded on major U.S. exchanges are the fewest in three decades.
"Currently, there are just 3,267 stocks in the University of Chicago's CRSP data, and this is the lowest since 1984," wrote DeSanctis.

What's behind this phenomenon? DeSanctis explains:
"Between the lack of IPO activity, the pickup of M&A, and buybacks, the U.S. equity world is becoming smaller and smaller, and this could be one of many reasons why active managers are lagging behind their indexes. Companies may not want to come public due to the additional cost of Sarbanes-Oxley or the fact that the private market has become a bigger source of financing than it has been in the past."
So whether it's the total number of stocks or the amount of shares for each company outstanding, the stock market is shrinking. This would appear to be good for passive investing as greater demand chasing less supply is lifting the market as a whole.
But it's likely negative for active managers, said DeSanctis.
"We think this has real implications for active managers, as it seems investors are crowding into fewer names and trading volume has fallen, making it much more difficult to add or reduce positions," he said.
For the curious, DeSanctis shows the number of common stocks is half as many as 1997's peak of 6,364.
The strategist also notes that 33 percent of small-cap stocks (his focus of expertise) reduced their shares outstanding in the last year, far above the historical average of about 20 percent.
So how should investors play this shrinking market?
DeSanctis notes historically it has paid to buy stocks that are reducing their share count. Right now, he believes the best strategy is to buy stocks that are doing that, but also paying a dividend.
Shares of specialty retailer Genesco plummeted more than 32 percent Thursday after the company's revenue and a key retail metric disappointed Wall Street. It also cut its guidance.
"Our comparable sales were challenged during the second quarter particularly in July with the emergence of a fashion rotation at Journeys," Robert Dennis, president and CEO of Genesco, which owns retailer Journeys, said in a press release.
"We experienced a sudden shift away from many of the core styles that have fueled Journeys' strong performances in recent years," he said.
The company's same store sales decreased 2 percent during the quarter. Consensus called for a 1.1 percent rise.
It posted fiscal-second-quarter earnings of 34 cents per share on revenue of $626 million. Analysts had expected 27 cents a share on revenue of $642.5 million, according to Thomson Reuters.
The company lowered its fiscal full year outlook to a range of $3.80 to $4 a share from a previously issued range of $4.80 to $4.90 per share.
Genesco's stock is down 14 percent year-to-date.
GCO 2016 Chart
Casino stocks jumped Thursday after gaming revenue in Macau posted the first positive monthly year-over-year growth in more than two years.
Shares of Wynn Resorts jumped more than 4 percent and Las Vegas Sands rallied 7 percent on Thursday after the news. Both stocks are on pace for their best day since July 26.
Macau, the only place in China where casino gambling is legal, posted a 1.1 percent increase in revenue in August after a 26-month slump. Monthly revenue growth dropped to five-year lows in part from slowing economic growth.
Gambling revenue was $2.4 billion, according to data from Macau's Gaming Inspection and Coordination Bureau.
Wynn has a resort in the southern Chinese territory, while U.S. billionaire Sheldon Adelson is set to open a multi-billion dollar Sands China Parisian resort in Macau later this month.
Wynn's stock is up more than 34 percent this year-to-date.
WYNN 2016 Chart
Sands' stock is also up, rising more than 22 percent year-to-date.
LVS 2016 Chart
— Reuters contributed to this report.
Banks were on track for their worst day in two months on Thursday.
Both the SPDR S&P Bank ETF (KBE) and the SPDR S&P Regional Bank ETF (KRE) neared session lows in early trading, down more than 1 percent each. The ETFs later recovered some of those losses. The KBE ended the day down 0.56 percent while the KRE ended the day 0.7 percent.
The regional banks ETF was pacing for its worst day since June 27, while the bank ETF were on track for its worst day since July 5.
The banks extended their losses after the ISM manufacturing survey came in at 49.4, indicating a surprising contraction in August manufacturing activity. Economists expected the ISM Manufacturing to hit 52.2 in August, according to a Thomson Reuters consensus estimate.
Diamond Offshore  shares fell more than 10 percent Thursday after the company said that Petroleo Brasileiro cancelled a drilling contract two years early.
Brazil's Petrobras terminated its contract for Diamond Offshore's semi-submersible drilling rig Ocean Valor. Diamond Offshore said in an SEC filing that it could take legal action. The drilling contract was extended in 2014 and had been scheduled to terminate in October 2018.
"The company does not believe that Petrobras had a valid or lawful basis for terminating the contract, and the company intends to defend the rights of its subsidiary under the contract," Diamond Offshore said in a SEC filing Thursday.
According to the filing, the rig had been earning an estimated $455,000 per day during the extension period.
In a note to investors, Capital One analyst Luke Lemoine said "this could be a drawn-out process, and Petrobras has received the more favorable outcome in the past."
Lemoine rates Diamond Offshore stock as underweight with a $20 price target, based on the fact that offshore drilling fundamentals are still rough, despite improved oil prices.
The stock was on track for its worst daily performance since February, 2016. Thursday was Diamond Offshore's seventh negative session in a row.
Shares are off by more than 21 percent year to date, which would be its fourth consecutive year of double digit losses.
-CNBC's Chris Hayes contributed to this report
Even though the stock market rallied 6 percent this year, Wall Street pundits remain quite bearish, recommending the lowest exposure to U.S. stocks in three years, according to Bank of American Merrill Lynch's Sell Side Indicator.
The firm's measure, which is based on the average equity allocation by Wall Street strategists, or how bullish they are on equities, fell to 49.6 in August from 50.8 in July.
The bearishness, however, could be a buying opportunity for those investors willing to take a contrarian stance, according to Savita Subramanian, head of U.S. equity and quantitative strategy at BofA Merrill Lynch.
Shares of Twitter briefly traded as much as 3 percent higher Thursday morning amid further speculation about the future of the struggling social media company.
The stock later pared some of those gains and ended the day 1.5 percent higher.
The company is attracting activists and all eyes are on Twitter's board meeting, scheduled for next Thursday, CNBC has learned. Topics of discussion at the meeting will include the growth rate of the company, and future options if growth continues to be anemic.
Shares of Twitter closed 4.5 percent higher Wednesday after co-founder Ev Williams said on Bloomberg TV that the company must "consider the right options" amid acquisition speculation. He also said the company is "in a strong position now."
The options market reflected that speculation, with the ratio of puts to calls  near an all-time low, according to a Thursday note from Jim Strugger, managing director, derivatives strategist at MKM Partners. Shares were last up about 1 percent. (A call is the right to buy a stock for a given price within a given period of time, while a put is the right to sell a stock for a given price within a given period of time.)
Though Williams' comments echo wider sentiment, a contest for control of Twitter could take at least until July of next year to unfold, said Robert Peck, managing director and internet equity analyst at SunTrust Robinson Humphrey.
"We don't think there's any takeout possibilities really in 2016," Peck told CNBC's "Fast Money: Halftime Report" on Thursday.
As uncertainty over Brexit and the U.S. presidential race has jolted the markets through the year, there's been one clear beneficiary.
The futures markets are seeing activity like never before, and that's likely to continue through the rest of the year, according to a TABB Group analysis. In addition to the activity generated by June's Brexit vote, the upcoming election as well as the prospect of rising interest rates likely will move volumes even higher.
"Projected 2016 volumes are up across all market sectors, with the energy, metals, ags/commodities and equities sectors all tracking for double-digit increases," TABB senior analyst Tom Lehrkinder said in the report.
Futures trading volume is expected to hit 3.6 billion contracts for the year, a 12 percent increase over 2015's 3.2 million.
In addition to a surge in futures activity, TABB projects a sharp rise in options on futures trading. That category is expected to jump about 15 percent this year, also to a record.
Futures contracts require owners to buy or sell particular assets at a later date at set price targets. Futures options allow the owner the choice of whether to exercise the contract.
The U.S. Federal Reserve might need to cut interest rates to as low as negative 2 percent, far lower than levels other global central banks have tested, a former Fed economist said.
That's what would likely be needed to engineer a recovery if the U.S. economy were to fall into a recession in the next couple of years, Marvin Goodfriend, who was an economist and policy advisor at the Federal Reserve's Bank of Richmond from 1993-2005, told CNBC's "Squawk Box" on Thursday.
Goodfriend, who is currently a professor of economics at Carnegie Mellon University, pointed to data on the eight recessions in the U.S. since 1960.
"In eight of those recessions, the Fed had to push the short rate 2.5 percentage points below the long term rate. Today, the 10-year rate in the U.S. is 1.5 percent," he noted, saying that would indicate that during the next recession, the Fed would need to cut rates as low as minus 1 percent at a minimum.
"In five of those recessions, the Fed had to push the federal funds rate 3.5 percentage points below the 10-year bond rate," he said. "So if that happens this time around, we would have to push the federal funds rate to minus 2 percent."
That's well below where any other central banks have ventured so far. Sweden's central bank, an early adopter of negative rates, has set its benchmark at negative 0.5 percent. The Bank of Japan's rate was set at minus 0.1 percent earlier this year, while the European Central Bank, which first moved its rates into negative territory in 2014, currently has a deposit rate of negative 0.4 percent.
The Fed funds rate has remained in positive territory, with the U.S. central bank last increasing interest rates in December of 2015, its first hike since 2006. That raised the Fed's target rate to a range of 0.25 to 0.5 percent.
To be sure, Goodfriend didn't expect the Fed would be headed there anytime soon, noting that he believed the central bank should actually raise rates before the end of the year.
"The U.S. has near full employment and inflation is moving up toward target," he said. "My own feeling is that the Fed needs to show the flag against inflation, if only to move rates up only slightly, to show that it's on the job."
Leon Cooperman, chairman and CEO of Omega Advisors, revealed his five key principles for making money in the financial markets in an exclusive interview with CNBC.
The billionaire hedge fund legend, who founded Omega Advisors in 1991, also discussed why he sold out of Citigroup and Netflix, as well as his hesitancy to invest in Tesla. He also shares his views on the U.S. election and unfair political attacks on the wealthy.
Only PRO subscribers have access to the full, lengthy interview, which was originally broadcast on "Fast Money Halftime Report."
Both the S&P 500 and the Dow Jones snapped a multi-month winning streak in August as investors grew jittery of a potential rate hike by the U.S. Federal Reserve, but one investment expert told CNBC that there are few attractive alternatives.
"If on Friday everything turns around and instead of 200,000-250,000 (jobs created) you get 150,000 or below then people will start to ask questions like: 'OK, have we seen the best of it now?' But even in that context when you look around the world, where else do you want to be?," Geoffrey Yu, head of U.K. investment office at UBS Wealth Management told CNBC Thursday.
He advised investors to remain diversified if they were worried about the S&P 500 declining.
"The Fed still looks on course (to gradually increase interest rates) and I think there's a gradual acceptance that that might not be a bad thing for the world, so good news is actually good news (for investors) but our mantra is still: stay diversified, stay protected as well," Yu added.
Check out which companies are making headlines before the bell:
Campbell Soup — The food company reported adjusted quarterly profit of 46 cents per share, 4 cents a share below estimates. Revenue was just shy of forecasts. Campbell said it was not pleased with the quarterly results, pointing specifically to "execution issues" with its Campbell Fresh business. Its full-year EPS forecast of $3 to $3.09 is also shy of the consensus estimate of $3.14 a share.
Joy Global — The mining equipment maker earned an adjusted 10 cents per share for its latest quarter, 2 cents a share below estimates. Revenue was also below forecasts. Joy said that market conditions remain "extremely challenged."
Salesforce.com — The cloud software company reported adjusted quarterly profit of 24 cents per share, 2 cents a share above estimates. Revenue was very slightly above forecasts, but its current-quarter revenue and profit estimates came in below Street estimates.
Shoe Carnival — Shoe Carnival's earnings fell 5 cents a share below estimates, with quarterly profit of 22 cents per share. Revenue was below forecasts, as were the shoe retailer's comparable-store sales.
Box — Box lost an adjusted 14 cents per share for its latest quarter, 5 cents smaller a share than estimated. The online file sharing company saw revenue come in above Street forecasts, however, and Box raised its full-year outlook on improving sales.
Charter Communications — The cable operator's stock will replace EMC in the S&P 500 after the close of trading on September 7, with EMC being acquired by privately held computer maker Dell.
Apple — Apple CEO Tim Cook told a Dublin radio station that the company expects to repatriate billions of dollars back to the U.S. next year, although he did not specify an amount. He also called the European Union's $14.5 billion tax bill for the company "total political crap."
Las Vegas Sands, Wynn Resorts — Shares in the casino operators could benefit from news that gaming revenue in Macau rose by 1.1 percent in August, the first monthly year-over-year growth in the Chinese territory since May of 2014.
Wal-Mart Stores — The retail giant is beginning its holiday layaway program tomorrow, two weeks early, hoping to get a jump on the holiday shopping season.
Lazard — Lazard erred in its analysis of SolarCity's worth in its work advising the solar equipment company on its sale to Tesla Motors, according to a regulatory filing, undervaluing SolarCity by $400 million. However, the purchase price of $2.6 billion was within the valuation range even with the miscalculation factored in.
McDonald's — McDonald's named Executive Vice President Christopher Kempczinski as the new president of McDonald's USA as of the end of the year, following the retirement of current president Michael Andres.
JPMorgan Chase — The  bank was given a stand-alone asset management license in China, according to a regulatory filing.
Costco — The discount retailer reported flat global comparable-store sales for August, and flat comps in the U.S., as well. Both measures had  been expected to rise by 1.3 percent, according to estimates from Thomson Reuters.
Five Below  — Five Below raised its forecast for the full year, after the discount retailer reported better-than-expected results for its most recent quarter. However, it gave downbeat guidance for the current quarter, which includes the back to school shopping season as well as Halloween.
We ran a search using hedge fund analytics tool Kensho and found there were certain industry exchange-traded funds that tend to perform well in September.
Those very same industries have some current trends lining up in their favor heading into the month, which should interest investors even more in these for a trade.
We analyzed the performance of various industry ETFs during the last 10 Septembers and found that these were among the best and most consistent performers during what has been historically a tough month for the overall market.
Millennials have expensive tastes when it comes to stocks.
Among their favorites is Tesla, which has a $200 plus market price, according to a TD Ameritrade study.
Investors in their parents' and grandparents' age bracket — baby boomers and beyond — like Ford, trading at about $12.50 a share. Investors over age 70 also tend to stick with dividend-paying blue-chips — AT&T and GE. Both trade at less than $50 a share.
So although the different generations share the same six favorite stock picks, including Apple, a portfolio of millennials' 10 most-bought stocks had an average share price of about $146 on Wednesday, higher than a similar portfolio for the other age groups studied.
TD Ameritrade studied the portfolios and trading activity in 6 million funded client accounts for the first six months of this year.
Jim Cramer thought the vicious linkage between oil and the market had finally ended. That theory went down the tube on Wednesday when a sharp decline in crude and worried money managers took down stocks.
It could have been a lot worse, though.
"This whole day could have been a lot worse, and it was for most of the session. But I saw many of the same buyers who had marked up stocks earlier in the week back in there supporting them after they got hit," the "Mad Money" host said.
Cramer noticed a pattern surrounding "marking up." This happens when money managers bid up their own stock at the end of the month to make it look as if their fund has performed better than it actually has. The SEC monitors the last day of trading in a given month to ensure that no money manager inflates performance, Cramer explained.
"I have noticed another pattern creeping into this racket: instead of doing it on the last day, the mark-up happens three days before the end of the month," Cramer said.
However, given the hammering that Salesforce stock took after-hours Wednesday and the expectation of lower oil prices in the future, Cramer anticipated that the selling will continue into Thursday.
Beer and wing chain Buffalo Wild Wings' stock price has made a dramatic resurgence in the last six weeks, but Jim Cramer's still not hungry for it.
After an epic multi-year rally, Buffalo Wild Wings reported a series of disappointing numbers that caused the stock to plunge to $134 in mid-July from $200 at its peak 12-months ago. But in the past six weeks, shares rose 20 percent from July lows.
Cramer suspected that some of the move is because the company reported a better-than-feared quarter in July, and also because activist Marcato Capital got involved, and purchased 5.1 percent.
But Cramer's still not biting.
"Until we see some evidence of a turnaround, I don't care that there is an activist at the gate, you need to stay on the sidelines with this one," the "Mad Money" host said.
Just five months after returning from medical leave from a heart transplant, and about a year after taking over United Continental, Oscar Munoz is moving full steam ahead.
"I think it's a group that at a point in time, we may have the best board in the industry, along with the best management team. So we are ready to go," Munoz said.
In an interview with Jim Cramer, Munoz said he understands the headwinds that a cyclical industry like airlines faces. Before joining United, Munoz worked at railroad giant CSX Corp  for more than a decade.
"My job, our job, the new team's job is to prepare for all sorts of the ups and downs. And right now we are facing a little bit of headwind with regards to the economy and fuel," Munoz said. "That is why you put a great team together, that's why you put a strategy that takes care of all the different sort of cyclical events, and then when it pops up you're ready to go."
Falling oil prices and rising expectations for interest rate hikes are two factors that have been giving the stock market hiccups as September arrives.
Thursday is the first day of a month that has suddenly become a time when the Fed could hike interest rates. Fed officials, at their Jackson Hole symposium last week, said September was possible for a rate hike, and that has made Friday's August jobs report all the more important because it will be a key input for the Fed's decision.
Thanks to hawkish Fed speak, money has been flowing into the financial sector, which benefits from higher rates, but stocks overall have waffled since Friday. A second factor unsettling the market has been the reversal in oil prices, down more than 5.5 percent this week so far, as supply continues to build and the market has become less convinced that OPEC can reach a deal to curb production. West Texas Intermediate fell 3.6 percent Wednesday to $44.70 per barrel.
Jim Cramer thought the vicious linkage between oil and the market had finally ended. That theory went down the tube on Wednesday when a sharp decline in crude and worried money managers took down stocks.
It could have been a lot worse, though.
"This whole day could have been a lot worse, and it was for most of the session. But I saw many of the same buyers who had marked up stocks earlier in the week back in there supporting them after they got hit," the "Mad Money" host said.
This week's petroleum inventory report prompted the decline when it indicated that total inventories rose 4.5 million barrels, to a record 2.1 billion barrels. Oil floods to U.S. shores from overseas, and yet the U.S. still pumps more oil, Cramer noted.
Cramer worried about the report because in order for the stock market to absorb a rate hike, investors must feel confident that the economy is strong. That will not occur if one of the most visible commodities, oil, struggles.
The U.S. Justice Department filed a lawsuit on Wednesday aimed at stopping Deere from buying Monsanto's Precision Planting farm equipment business.
Deere said in a statement that it would fight the lawsuit, saying that the Justice Department's antitrust concerns were "misguided."
Monsanto had said in November that it would sell its Precision Planting farm equipment business to Deere for an undisclosed sum. The Justice Department complaint asking the deal to be stopped puts the transaction price at about $190 million.
Deere shares were down 1 percent at $84.82, while Monsanto's shares fell 1.4 percent to $105.88 in afternoon trading.
The Justice Department said the proposed deal would combine the two biggest makers of high-speed precision planting, which allows farmers to plant row crops like corn up to twice as fast as with conventional machinery.
In February, Deere completed its acquisition of Monosem, which also makes precision planters.
"High-speed precision planting technology holds out the promise of improved yields for American farmers by enabling them to plant crops more accurately at higher speeds," said Renata Hesse, the acting head of the Justice Department's Antitrust Division in a press release.
"Precision Planting has been a key innovator in high-speed precision planting and Deere's only significant competitor in developing and selling these technologies," Hesse said in a statement.
In particular, the Justice Department was concerned about Deere selling both the big machine planters themselves as well as a less expensive device sold by Precision Planting that converts conventional planters into precision planters.
"By offering farmers high-speed precision planting retrofit kits at a fraction of the cost of a new planter, Precision Planting posed a formidable challenge to Deere and its profitable sales of new planters," the Justice Department said in its complaint, asking a court to stop the proposed transaction.
With a glut of used farm equipment on the market, and many U.S. grain farmers cutting back their budgets amid stubbornly low commodity prices, both companies had been hoping the deal would tempt farmers to update equipment and buy into new farm-data services.
Farm net incomes have steadily fallen since hitting an all-time high of $123.8 billion in 2013, according to the U.S. Department of Agriculture. And there's little sign of improvement: Farm income is forecast to fall again this year to $71.5 billion, down nearly 12 percent from 2015, according to USDA data released this week.
This is adding pressure on companies across the sector to consolidate and seek cost savings.
Bank of America's summer surge has some traders betting on further upside for the stock.
Wanting to cash in, one trader in particular made a $1.2 million bet on the bank that could see him reaping rewards this Friday.
On Tuesday morning, one trader bought about 100,000 September 2nd weekly 16-strike calls for 12 cents per share, or $12 per options contract. The trade was made when Bank of America was trading at around $15.90, and it has a break-even level of $16.12. If the stock closes below $16 on Friday, the entire $1.2 million spent in options premium will be lost.
While the trade initially looked good, with BofA closing at $16.19 on Tuesday, the stock sold off Wednesday morning.
Still, through midday trading, the shares remained at about $15.85, which Brian Stutland of Equity Armor Investments calls a level of support.
In fact, Tuesday on CNBC's "Fast Money," Stutland predicted that the stock could rise to $16.88 in the near term.

If it closes at or above that level on Friday, the trader stands to make a profit of 633 percent, or $7.6 million.
Bank of America has been rallying throughout the summer, recovering from its post-Brexit lows on the strength of expectations the Fed could well raise rates in December, if not September. The stock is still down about 5 percent year to date.
CNBC's Jim Cramer said on Wednesday that CEOs won't come to Apple's defense regarding the European Union's tax ruling because they're afraid.
"Isn't it interesting that we did not have a typical group of CEO's add to the chorus of Tim Cook," Cramer said on "Squawk on the Street," "because they're afraid ... like 'listen, right now, lets lay low. Maybe they won't come after us.'"
Ireland, on the other hand, said Tuesday it would appeal the European Commission's rule, which ordered the Irish government to recoup billions in back taxes from Apple. The U.S. government also expressed disappointment in the ruling saying in part the tax assessments by the commission were "unfair."
The Commission said it will also continue to look into Amazon  and McDonald's  European tax affairs.
Apple's stock was trading at slightly higher at $106.31 Wednesday morning.
Some economists are siding with Allianz's Mohamed El-Erian, who on Tuesday said he sees an 80 percent chance the Federal Reserve raises interest rates in September if Friday's jobs report comes in strong.
"I think he makes a good point. I think the Fed is actually pretty dovish, but they're data-dependent and they want to keep their credibility," Randy Anderson, chief economist at Griffin Capital, told CNBC's "Squawk Box" on Wednesday.
The Fed has signaled it will raise rates at least once this year, after backing off earlier expectations for four increases. The central bank has not moved since December, when it lifted its benchmark Fed funds rate by a quarter of a percent from near zero.
Anderson said he believes the Fed would prefer to wait until its December meeting, but policymakers don't want to risk missing their window to raise rates in 2016. That could happen if they hold off in September and are then delayed by some exogenous event like Britain's surprise vote in June to leave the European Union, he said.
A third consecutive month of employment gains in excess of 200,000 positions could provide an excuse to move, according to Anderson.
Closely watched investor and Omega Advisors CEO and Chairman Leon Cooperman echoed that view during an interview on CNBC's "Fast Money: Halftime Report" on Wednesday.
"If the employment report comes in at, say, 200,000 or more, they'll go for sure in September. If it comes in 150,000 or less, they'll probably wait until December," he said.
ADP and Moody's Analytics on Wednesday reported private employers added 177,000 jobs in August, though most of the gains were in services and manufacturing employment fell.
The market puts the probability of a rate hike at the Federal Open Market Committee's September meeting at 27 percent, according to the CME's FedWatch tool. The odds increased after Fed chair Janet Yellen said the case for raising rates had strengthened during an annual retreat in Jackson Hole.
Barclays Chief U.S. Economist Michael Gapen said Wednesday a September hike has always been on the table. The Fed kept rates unchanged in June following a disappointing April jobs report and dismal May data, but labor markets rebounded in June and July.
"If the April-May data was a fluke, I thought they'd be right back looking at a September hike," Gapen told "Squawk Box." "If you get a good number, I think they'll go."
Chicago Fed President Charles Evans this morning said the U.S. economy appears to be permanently slowing down, making it a bad time to raise rates. But Gapen said Evans is in the minority of policymakers who do not want to move until inflation reaches the Fed's 2 percent target.
"I think Yellen's comments at Jackson Hole were pretty clear. Labor markets send a signal, we'll move on a forecast of inflation," he said.
H&R Block was the worst performer in the S&P 500 Wednesday after it reported weaker-than-expected results for its latest quarter due to fewer customers in the U.S. and a negative currency impact.
The company reported an adjusted loss of 55 cents per share, two cents wider than anticipated. Revenue also fell below forecasts to $125 million versus the $133 million estimate.
The stock was down 12 percent on heavy volume of nearly 6 million shares by late-morning. The stock later recovered some of its losses, but still ended the day down 10.5 percent.
This was H&R Block's third loss in the last four quarters amid changes to the company's balance sheets after the sale of its bank business to a unit of BofI Holding.
While the tax preparer did not provide any guidance, CEO Bill Cobb offered a positive outlook to investors. "Because of the highly seasonal nature of our business, the fiscal first quarter is not indicative of our full year results," Cobb said in a statement.
"That said, all of the company's efforts remain laser-focused on executing a successful tax season," Cobb added.
In April, H&R Block said it was laying off 250 workers during a disappointing tax season. The company says it is on target to carry out these cost-reduction plans, saying "the majority of our planned reductions will occur after the first quarter."
Wednesday marked the H&R Block's third worst session of the year. 2016 has not been kind to Block, with shares down more than 36 percent year-to-date. If shares continue to sell off, this could mark H&R Block's worst year since 2010 when it fell 47 percent.
HRB year to date  Source: FactSet
-CNBC's Chris Hayes contributed to this report
Break me off a piece of that stock — or so says one strategist regarding chocolate manufacturing giant Hershey's.
Hershey's opened slightly higher Wednesday after the stock was pummeled Tuesday, dropping nearly 11 percent by the market's close after international confectionery manufacturer Mondelez said talks of a takeover bid of Hershey's had ended. But Eddy Elfenbein, editor of the Crossing Wall Street blog, said Tuesday on "Trading Nation" that he's bullish on the company he said has a historically strong record.
"This is a 'set-and-forget' stock; you never want to bet against chocolate," Elfenbein said, calling Hershey's a company that an investor could "put in the corner of your portfolio, and forget you have it."
Hershey's stock has risen over 12,000 percent since its initial public offering in 1978, eclipsing the return of the S&P 500.

It also happens to boast a dividend yield of about 2.5 percent.
"Traders looking for a big pop in it, with a buyout announcement or something like that, all the legal issues, involving the trust; that's not going to happen," Elfenbein said, referring to legal controversies surrounding the Hershey Trust, founded by company founder Milton Hershey to fund a school for underprivileged children, which has drawn scrutiny over an investigation into the charitable trust's board.
But following Tuesday's fall, some may believe the company's historical growth is not a good enough reason to buy it in the here and now.
"There's good support at around $95," Ari Wald, technical analyst at Oppenheimer, said Tuesday on "Trading Nation."
"I would say that there is a bit of a lack of direction in the trend here. It's a bit sloppy; I think it's going to probably knock around here over the next few months, so I guess from a trading perspective, I'd say that there are better opportunities elsewhere right here," he said.
Wald called the stock "too late to sell" after the decline, though he would not call Hershey's trend entirely "broken" after Tuesday's movement.
"I always say, investing is too difficult to buy these kind of neutral trends," he said.
Hershey's had sought a sale of $125 per share from Mondelez, as compared to the $115 offered, Dow Jones reported. According to FactSet estimates, the company's target price per analysts is $104.57, and the FactSet analyst consensus is a "hold" rating.
But Elfenbein deems this a sweet buy in the long run.
"I mean, it's done so well for so long. I think it's raised its dividend every year over the last 30 or 40 years but one. This is as good as they get," he said.
Shares of apparel retailer Chico's FAS popped more than 12 percent in intraday trade Wednesday after better-than-expected earnings.
Second-quarter adjusted earnings came in at 25 cents a share, beating estimates of 22 cents, according to the firm's quarterly report released late Tuesday.
Revenue also beat at $636 million, versus $632 million expected. The company pointed to its cost-reduction initiatives, which began in May.
Shares of PNC Financial Services Group, off nearly 7 percent this year through Tuesday, are too cheap considering it's a best-in-class regional bank with diversified businesses that can withstand interest rate risk, according to Keefe, Bruyette & Woods, which upgraded the stock to outperform from market perform.
Brian Klock, an analyst with the investment bank specializing in financial services, wrote in a note late Tuesday:
"We believe PNC is a highly profitable, well-run bank that has levers to grow earnings. With shares currently trading at what we think is an attractive valuation and with the opportunity for multiple expansion, we are upgrading the shares to outperform. ... We believe the shares warrant a premium price-to-earnings multiple versus peers due to the bank's diversified revenue stream, growth in higher-multiple earnings from the core PNC bank and contribution from its stake in BlackRock Inc., efficient operations with more room on expenses, and stored earnings power in high level of excess cash."
The shares had been weighed down earlier in the year as interest rates remained stubbornly low, squashing the profit margin outlook for regional banks. Recent comments by Federal Reserve officials about raising rates as many as two times this year have sparked a turnaround in bank shares.
Shares of Veeva Systems jumped nearly 9 percent Wednesday after the cloud-based software company reported earnings that exceeded analysts expectations.
On Tuesday, the company posted fiscal second-quarter earnings of 15 cents per share on revenue of $131.4 million. Analysts expected 13 cents a share on revenue of $126.6 million, according to a Thomson Reuters consensus estimate.
Veeva's shares popped in extended trading Tuesday after the report.
"We're bringing new industry cloud solutions to market at a rapid pace to address significant customer needs with great cloud technology and truly unified systems," Peter Gassner, CEO of Veeva, said in the report.
"It's this innovation and proven track record of customer success that's fueling our outperformance and sets us up for a long runway of growth into the future."
The company reported a 40 percent year-over-year increase in subscription service revenue for the quarter. It also updated its fiscal full year outlook to total revenues between $525 million and $528 million.
Gassner told CNBC Wednesday that what pushes customers to their cloud is business agility.
"[The customers] know they have to move to the cloud to remain agile to compete in markets," he said on CNBC's "Squawk Alley."
With Wednesday's gains, Veeva's stock is up more than 41 percent this year-to-date.
VEEV 2016 Chart
There's more than one reason to be bullish on equities right now, according to Oppenheimer's head of technical analysis, Ari Wald. Actually, he counts exactly five.
"Our indicators are largely positive, and we accordingly recommend buying the S&P 500 into its 2,135-2,145 support range in anticipation of higher highs over the coming months," Wald wrote in a recent note to clients.
Tuesday on CNBC's "Trading Nation," the technical analyst spelled out just what he's looking at.
The market's trend and momentum:
With the S&P closing Tuesday at 2,176, less than 1 percent from an all-time high, it's a fair bet that the market's rise will continue, according to Wald. Importantly, "the S&P 500 has rallied through key 2,135 resistance," clearing the way for fresh highs ahead.
The market's internal breadth:
An important consideration for many technical analysts, "breadth" measures the level of participation in the market's moves. A rally with narrow breadth is one driven by a small number of surging stocks, and many consider this to be a less "sustainable" type of rally.
At present, however, Wald reports that "internal breadth is the strongest it's been since the summer of 2014," based on the number of advancing versus declining stocks, as well as on the number of names above their 200-day moving average. These indications "support a resumption of equity market strength over the coming months."
Credit spreads:
Another indication of the "healthiness" of a rally is the width of credit spreads. That is, when the amount of additional compensation that investors require for holding riskier bonds declines, it is taken as "confirmation" of a rise in the equity market — as it shows that there is optimism about the economy across the board
Commodity prices:
Oil and other commodities have seen a substantial bounce from the lows seen in December and February, but commodity volatility has substantially declined.
"We've found that low and stable commodity prices have historically been a positive for equities," the technical analyst wrote.
Leadership:
The types of stocks that are leading the market are often taken to be a meaningful indicator. And at present, more volatile stocks that generally move in concert with the market (that is, high beta stocks) have outperformed, a good sign for those who are focused on sentiment.
"One argument that we've heard from the bears in recent months is, 'Oh, we've had this rally led by very defensive areas of the market.' Well I've got great news for you — this is no longer the case," Wald said Tuesday.
The relationship between high beta stocks and low-volatility names "now favors high beta. And we ran the numbers on this: Forward performance by the S&P 500 tends to be above average over most time horizons when this occurs."
This, like many of the above signals, is "an indication of bullish risk appetite."
All in all, "The technical setup is very strong here," Wald added.
Argus Research downgraded shares of Under Armour to hold from buy on Wednesday, citing high valuation and the potential impact of the apparel maker taking on additional debt to subsidize expansion efforts.
"While revenue is likely to remain strong, we think that further expansion will require substantial business investment, which will add debt and interest expense and weigh on earnings growth," equity analyst John Staszak wrote in a research note. "In addition, Under Armour trades at a high current-year P/E, well above the average for apparel companies in our coverage group, and we see little room for further improvement."
Staszak is among the best analysts on Wall Street, according to TipRanks, which shows that his average calls post an average one-year return of greater than 12 percent. That track record places him among the top 200 analysts on all of Wall Street, according to the website.
Global recession might not be on the cards, but investors are starting to worry that central banks are running out of ammunition, Geraldine Sundstrom, an asset allocation portfolio manager at Pimco, told CNBC Wednesday.
"Keeping your powder dry is one of the key recommendations we have … to take advantage of the market downturn," she said, adding that she was unable to give an exact date on when a downtick might come.
Risks are rising on the horizon, according to her company's outlook, with one of the main concerns being whether central banks are running towards the end of the road in terms of policy. "This is the main worry in most people's mind and (is affecting) the way we are building our portfolio," she said.
"Our asset allocation is cautious and not really risk-averse. We are really trying to steer away from negative yielding assets and really building the portfolio with core quality income at the heart of it," Sundstrom later said, adding that banks in the U.S. are good investments.
Sundstrom said she would wait until the downturn before "operating gradually" and buying up assets that had fallen in price. However, she explained that there were currently no "excesses in the system" and said there was no "overinvestment" in any particular asset which would be a typical factor to bring about a recession.
The "Fast Money" traders shared their first moves for the market open.
Pete Najarian was a buyer of Morgan Stanley.
Tim Seymour was a buyer of JD.com.
Karen Finerman was a seller of United Continental Holdings calls.
Guy Adami was a buyer of Williams-Sonoma.
Check out which companies are making headlines before the bell:
Viacom — Former CEO Philippe Dauman sold the remainder of his class B shares, worth $31 million, after selling more than $28 million in shares last week.
Bob Evans Farms — The restaurant chain and food distributor earned an adjusted 48 cents per share for its first quarter, 4 cents a share above estimates. Revenue fell below forecasts, however. Bob Evans also raised its full-year forecast, with its food distribution business performing well, making up for some weakness in its restaurant business.
H&R Block — The tax services provider reported an adjusted loss of 55 cents per share for its latest quarter, 2 cents a share wider than anticipated. Revenue also fell below forecasts as Block had fewer customers and was also impacted by currency fluctuations.
Palo Alto Networks — Palo Alto reported quarterly profit of 50 cents per share, matching estimates, while the cybersecurity company's revenue exceeded forecasts. The company also gave a full-year forecast that rises above consensus forecasts, but the current-quarter outlook is below estimates.
AstraZeneca — AstraZeneca will pay $5.52 million to resolve a Securities and Exchange Commission foreign bribery case. The drugmaker had been accused of improper payments by its sales and marketing personnel to state officials in Russia and China, but did not admit or deny guilt in settling the case.
Express Scripts — Express Scripts will introduce a program in 2017 that caps patient spending costs on diabetes drugs. The pharmacy benefits manager is trying to limit drug spending increases by participants to about half of the nearly 18 percent rise forecast overall for 2017.
Amazon.com — Amazon is debuting its Amazon Dash button in Britain with 48 brands available for instant re-order.
Volkswagen — Volkswagen's could announce a final settlement in October with the U.S. on its large-engine diesel cars that were involved in the automaker's diesel emissions scandal, according to an Audi executive in a Reuters interview.
Dollar General — Dollar General was downgraded to "neutral" from "overweight" at Atlantic Equities, which cited a lack of near-term transparency for the discount retailer's outlook.
Quest Diagnostics — The medical lab services company was downgraded to "neutral" from "buy" at Mizuho, with the move coming on a valuation basis after the stock substantially outperformed its benchmark indexes after a March upgrade.
PNC Financial  — The bank was upgraded to "outperform" from "market perform" at Keefe Bruyette & Woods, which thinks the stock is trading at attractive levels considering the company's opportunities to grow earnings.
Mattel — The toy maker announced a partnership involving its American Girl brand with Toys R Us. The retailer will be the only U.S. retailer to have an American Girl "shop-in-shop" in certain stores.
Editor's note: This is PRO Strategy, a column on how the smartest minds on Wall Street invest.
Perhaps other than Warren Buffett, there is no other value investor more respected than Seth Klarman among his hedge fund industry peers. He has generated tens of billions in gains for his clients across decades. Here's how investors can learn from his success and apply his investment philosophy.
Klarman started his investing career at Mutual Shares working with Michael Price, before going to Harvard Business School. He then became the first portfolio manager at Baupost, a firm founded by Harvard Business School professors to manage their assets. Eventually he would take a controlling position in Baupost and turn it into one of the most successful hedge funds in the world.
Across his 33 years of investing at Baupost, Klarman reportedly  generated annual returns of 16.4 percent and $22.6 billion in net profit for his clients as of the end of 2015.
In total, Baupost had $29.2 billion of assets under management at the end of June, according to the firm.
Here are three key elements of Klarman's philosophy:
Shares of oil drillers and related stocks are likely to plunge this fall as demand drops off in the face of huge stockpiles of crude and refined fuel products, asset manager Louis Navellier said Wednesday.
Energy is the second best performing sector in S&P 500 this year, having risen more than 14 percent. Much of those gains came earlier this year. The sector is up 3.2 percent over the last three months, putting it in the middle of the pack.
Navellier believes companies focused on natural gas will be fine following a blistering hot summer that boosted electricity demand and with forecasts pointing to a freezing winter. But the market is overestimating a summer rally in crude oil prices and the ability of crude demand to hold up.
"What happens after Labor Day, worldwide demand will drop off and the glut will be out of control," the chairman of Navellier & Associates told CNBC's "Squawk Box."
Commodity analysts have worried for some time that huge stockpiles of fuels like gasoline and diesel will reduce demand for feedstock crude oil at refineries during the fall maintenance season, when their activity is already slow. That could lead to a further buildup in crude inventories that will eventually cause another dip in oil prices.
Prices have recently been bolstered by speculation that OPEC members and other producers could cut a deal to boost crude futures when they meet next month. But Navellier cited a Goldman Sachs study that said excess supply would continue weigh down crude prices even if OPEC agreed to take coordinated action to limit output.
Further, energy companies don't have the earnings or the sales to sustain their stock gains, he said.
"I'm very, very concerned that people have confused seasonal strength with real strength, and so it's not going to end well. Oil always goes up in March and always goes down in September," he said.
Navellier said oil prices could bottom at the recent low around $38, or they could retest the winter lows in the high $20s.
Some traders are worried the market has grown too complacent heading into September, especially considering recent hints by Fed officials of a possible rate hike during the month. Below is where investors can hide during a Fed-induced volatility spike, if history is any guide.
"Despite increased probability of a rate hike by the Fed in the FOMC meeting on September 21, no major moves are being priced in by the market and the absolute level of SPX implied volatility is also low. We recommend buying protection around the FOMC meeting," Barclays analysts told clients in a research note on Tuesday.
A similar sentiment was echoed by MKM Partners derivatives strategist Jim Strugger, who wrote:
"It's curious that with markets in a period of true data-dependency, where a stronger-than-expected nonfarm payroll number this Friday could push up odds of a rate hike at the September 21 FOMC meeting, implied volatility of TLT [Ishares Lehman 20 Year] and UUP [PowerShares DB US Dollar Index Bullish Fund] is hovering near the lows of the last two years."
The Federal Reserve, with its bargain-basement interest rates and money printer always on standby, is manipulating financial markets and crushing capitalism, bond king Bill Gross said in his latest broadside against the U.S. central bank.
In a letter to clients, Gross addresses Fed Chair Janet Yellen directly, saying the policies she has pushed "have deferred long-term pain for the benefit of short-term gain."
The criticisms come as the Fed is weighing whether to raise interest rates  after years of keeping them anchored in efforts to stimulate the economy and create inflation. Instead, Gross said, the Fed has merely inflated asset prices while actually harming the economy.
Yellen and other global central bankers "all have mastered the art of market manipulation and no — that's not an unkind accusation — it's one in fact that Ms. Yellen and other central bankers would plead guilty to over a cocktail at Jackson Hole or any other get together of PhD economists who have lost their way," Gross wrote.
Directing his comments to Yellen specifically, he said, "Capitalism, almost commonsensically, cannot function well at the zero bound or with a minus sign as a yield. $11 trillion of negative yielding bonds are not assets — they are liabilities. Factor that, Ms. Yellen into your asset price objective."
Investors are not fully prepared for a September rate hike, and they're too complacent about the chances for another one in December, according to money manager Jeroen Blokland.
"The U.S. economy has continued to grow showing decent numbers," said Blokland, senior portfolio manager at Robeco, on Tuesday's "Futures Now. "I think the Fed just has to get off the 0.5 percent at some point and this is probably a good time to do so."
Blokland, who has just under $300 billion in assets under management, believes the Fed has already missed a couple of vital opportunities for a rate hike.
"The Fed should raise rates sooner than later," he contended. "Jobs have grown at an above-average pace since December. Wages, income, spending are all growing at a decent pace. Consumer prices have risen as well."
If Friday's August employment report is strong, it'll give the central bank more ammunition to boost rates a quarter point to 0.75 percent.
"We have to take into account that these interest rates are still extremely low and that the Fed is looking for a gradual path to normalization," he said.
The Fed has not raised rates since last December's meeting. Since then, the S&P 500 is up 6 percent — while gold and oil have soared 24 percent and 28 percent, respectively.
On Friday, Fed Chair Janet Yellen said the case for an interest rate rise "has been strengthened" by recent data, though she did not lay out a timetable for future hikes.
And as for stocks?
"The markets look a bit frothy. So, I think this could be an important hurdle for stocks to rise further from here," Blokland said.
The relatively quiet markets of summer are about to get a wakeup call.
July and August have been mostly good for stocks and bonds with the S&P 500 hitting new highs and rising 9 percent above its late June low. Bond prices have held at rich levels, as yields stayed super low. But that could all be about to change when markets enter September — a month that will be big with central bank meetings and other events that could challenge expectations.
"I think it's potentially a turning point for volatility. Volatility was very low over the course of the summer," said Jeff Kleintop, chief global investment strategist at Charles Schwab.
Real estate will officially become the S&P 500's newest sector after the market closes on Wednesday, but some traders are already shutting the door on real estate stocks.
REITs have outperformed the market this year and still retain their place as one of the top-performing asset classes among all industries. But real estate's heyday could be winding to a close, according to Eddy Elfenbein, editor of the Crossing Wall Street blog.
"Real estate has been a huge winner over the last seven and a half years, the total return is up something like 400 percent," he said Tuesday on CNBC's "Power Lunch." "But now it's facing pretty stretched valuations, and more importantly, it's probably fighting an unfriendly Reserve."
"I thank REITs for the great return, but I think it's time to move on," added Elfenbein.
REITs have been popular among investors, especially in light of record-low bond yields. In their hunt for yield, the same investors turned to REITs for their high dividends, but that could change should the Federal Reserve increase interest rate targets.
Ari Wald, technical analyst at Oppenheimer, also believes that real estate's golden times could be over soon. Looking at a long-term chart of the REIT-tracking ETF VNQ, Wald emphasizes that real estate's high support of $87 still stands, especially as the 200-day moving average continues its rise.

However, Wald also sees interest rates as what will ultimately determine the fate of real estate stocks, and the outlook isn't favorable.
"We think this group is going to be handcuffed by ebbs and flows in interest rates. There's a very tight, negative correlation," Wald said. "So in the near term, if rates back up a little bit, which we think they can, we think [real estate] is going to underperform."
Bond yields rose on Wednesday, with 10-year U.S. Treasury yields  on course for their biggest monthly rise in over a year as investors continued to build up bets that the Federal Reserve will raise interest rates before the year is out.
The growing prospects of a rate hike, perhaps next month, lifted the dollar against many major currencies, pushing it up to a one-month high against the Japanese yen.
The increase in market-based rates and a firm dollar kept a lid on world stock. Japan's Nikkei 225 bucked the trend, however, its 1 percent rally driven by the yen's fall to a one-month low.
U.S. futures pointed to a slight decline at the open on Wall Street and Europe's main bourses hovered close to flat in early trading.
The notable gainer was German bank Commerzbank, whose shares rose as much as 4 percent after a German magazine reported that the country's biggest lender Deutsche Bank had in the past considered the idea of a merger with Commerzbank.
Deutsche boss John Cryan, however, poured cold water on the idea, erasing some of the gains in Commerzbank shares.
"Markets remain reluctant to price in a high probability of a Fed rate hike as soon as 21 September, but such a stance is too dovish in our view," BNP Paribas strategists wrote in a note to clients on Wednesday.
This leaves open the prospect of a "significant" rise in short-term U.S. yields if the August employment data on Friday is strong enough to pave the way for a rate hike at the Fed's next policy meeting, they added.
Benchmark 10-year U.S. Treasury yields were up 1 basis point at 1.58 percent, bringing the increase over August up to 12 basis points, the most since June last year.
Two-year yields, which are more sensitive to near-term rate hike expectations, were also up 1 basis point at 0.81 percent. They have risen nearly 15 basis points this month, the most since November last year.
Fed officials speak
Friday's U.S. jobs report is expected to show employers added 180,000 jobs in August, according to the median estimate of 89 economists polled by Reuters.
Fed Vice Chairman Stanley Fischer said in an interview on Tuesday that the job market is nearly at full strength and the pace of interest rate increases will depend on how well the economy is doing.
On Wednesday Chicago Fed President Charles Evans highlighted sluggish growth and the case for keeping rates lower for longer, while Boston Fed President Eric Rosengren said higher rates could shield the economy from risks such as a commercial real estate bubble.
As of Tuesday, markets were pricing in a 24 percent chance of a U.S. rate hike next month, according to CME Group's FedWatch tool, and a more than 50-50 chance of higher rates by the end of the year.
U.S. consumer confidence rose to an 11-month high in August, with households more upbeat about the labour market, data showed overnight.
The dollar rose a third of one percent against the yen to a one-month high of 103.34 yen, and the euro slipped to $1.1130.
"It's finely balanced and remarkably stable ... and yet dollar/yen moved higher again, setting the scene for the Japanese equities bounce overnight," Societe Generale FX strategists said on Wednesday, adding that the dollar would have to break above 105 for this move to look like much more than "noise."
The FTSEuroFirst index of leading 300 shares was up 0.1 percent at 1,358 points, Germany's DAX was down 0.1 percent and Britain's FTSE 100 was up 0.1 percent.
MSCI's broadest index of Asia-Pacific shares outside Japan was down 0.35 percent and global stock index was flat.
On Wall Street on Tuesday, markets logged losses, dragged down by shares of Apple after antitrust regulators ordered the company to pay about $14.5 billion in back taxes to the Irish government.
Crude oil futures continued to slip on Wednesday after ending down for a second straight day on Tuesday, on worries of oversupply and a strong dollar.
Brent crude slipped 0.8 percent to $48.00 per barrel after shedding 1.8 percent on Tuesday, but remains on track for a healthy 13 percent gain in August.
U.S. crude was down 0.5 percent at $46.12 after losing 1.3 percent overnight. It is set to end the month 11 percent higher.
Spot gold edged up 0.3 percent to $1,313 an ounce after tumbling to as low as $1,308.65 on Tuesday, its lowest since late June, pressured by the stronger dollar and growing expectations of higher U.S. rates. It is headed for a 2.7 percent decline in August.
Oil and gas stocks have made a strong resurgence this year, but it was the savvy moves of the exploration and production companies that are the true shining stars for Jim Cramer.
The energy sector has now become the best performing group in the S&P 500, which is astounding considering that the price of crude has stalled in the mid-$40s and natural gas remains stuck below $3 per million British thermal units.
Exploration and production companies made the prudent decision to control their own destinies, and have made acquisitions to buy high-quality acreage at low prices.
"These opportunistic oil and gas producers seem to have discovered the secret formula for generating much higher stock prices in this environment," the "Mad Money" host said.
One of Jim Cramer's Twitter followers asked him on Monday night if he is turning on Apple, and he took it personally. Just because the charts for the stock look gloomy, that doesn't mean he is ready to trade it.
"I said on air that Apple's chart was the worst in the book," the "Mad Money" host said.
Before the news broke that the European Union slapped Apple with a $14.5 billion tax bill, Cramer saw that the charts for Apple were struggling. The technicals for the stock suggested that it was ready to plummet.
Thus, Cramer already predicted that Apple would get hit with a giant tax bill based on the chart, and acknowledged this on air. He just did not have the foresight to know the stock would get hit off the news when it broke.
"I was just looking at the chart, and it was terrible. Oh, and it remains terrible," Cramer said.
Shares of Canadian company Ritchie Bros. Auctioneers, the world's largest industrial auctioneer, rose more than 20 percent Tuesday in New York trade after two big announcements.
In addition to buying private e-commerce site IronPlanet for approximately $758.5 million, the company also announced a strategic alliance agreement with Caterpillar, under which Ritchie Bros. will become Caterpillar's preferred global partner for live onsite and online auctions.
At $4.78 billion market capitalization, Ritchie Bros Auctioneers is a leader in selling a broad range of used and unused equipment for construction, transportation, agriculture, mining, and other industries.
Shares of United Continental surged Tuesday after a late Monday announcement that former American Airlines president Scott Kirby would become president. Kirby made the switch on the same day.
United shares briefly hit its highest since April, gaining more than 8 percent on the day. The airline was on pace for its best day since July 10, 2014, when it gained 12.73 percent.
Earlier this month, United named Andrew Levy its chief financial officer. The position was vacant for more than a year.
Hope you've all seen some of CNBC's cool coverage on the space program this week. Take a look here if you haven't.
It's a good opportunity to highlight the  Kensho New Economy Indices, 13 sectors (16 indices) designed to highlight disruptive technologies such as drones, robotics, cyber security, 3-D printing, nanotechnology as well as TWO space indices.
You can see them here: http://www.cnbc.com/kensho/
And my story on the indexes here: http://cnb.cx/2bGKSn6
The Kensho Space Index is at a new high (though it only goes back to 2014), and consists of 30 stocks with significant exposure to the space industry. Every wonder who builds all the stuff that goes into the space program?  Of course it includes companies like Boeing and Honeywell and Lockheed Martin, but there's dozens of smaller companies that make rocket parts and mundane things like filtration and fluid control systems.  And who actually delivers the groceries to the International Space Station (ISS)?
Prison stocks slid again Tuesday, extending Monday's declines after the federal government said it will examine its use of privately managed immigration detention facilities.
The two major publicly traded prison stocks, Corrections Corporation of America and GEO Group, declined more than 4 percent and more than 7 percent, respectively.
With Tuesday's decline, both stocks were on pace for a weekly loss of more than 8 percent and down more than 40 percent for the month so far.
Department of Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson announced Monday that the Homeland Security Advisory Council will create a subcommittee to "review our current policy and practices concerning the use of private immigration detention and evaluate whether this practice should be eliminated."
Representatives from both GEO Group and CCA told CNBC Monday that they welcome the review.
The announcement calls for the subcommittee to submit a report by Nov. 30.
The Department of Justice also recently announced that its Bureau of Prisons will begin phasing out the use of private contractors for federal prisons.
After the DOJ's Aug. 18 announcement, private prison stocks shed 50 percent of their value before bouncing back. Analysts called the market reaction to that announcement excessive.
Unlike the Department of Justice, the Immigration and Customs Enforcement does not maintain any of its own facilities.
— CNBC's Evelyn Cheng contributed to this report.
This week we get earnings reports from a Q2 straggler and an early Q3 release from names in the tech space.
Verifone and Box have seen their stocks suffer in 2016. While Box is beginning to show improvements heading into its report, Verifone is still struggling, and has seen massive downward revisions to earnings and revenue expectations.
More from Estimize:
5 Stocks to Watch this Week 8/29 - CRM, PANW, ANF, AMBA, SWHC
Payment processor Verifone is scheduled to report fiscal third-quarter earnings on Wednesday, one of the first Q3 reports of the season. The company is best known for payment terminals found at a large portion of retailers worldwide.
Its industry lead as a provider of electronic payment solutions has proved favorable for earnings, with the exception of last quarter, which showed a surprising miss of 7 cents on the bottom line, and growth that dropped out of the double digits. Those results kicked off a multimonth sell-off of the stock, which is now down more than 29 percent this year.
Currently the crowd is not looking for a rebound. EPS is expected to come in at 42 cents, a cent higher than Wall Street's forecast, which would show a 3 percent decline year-over-year and the first decline in over eight quarters. Revenues are slated to come in at $515.09 million, even lower than the sell-side expectation of $515.44 million, but still in positive growth territory at 2 percent.
Both of these metrics have been falling since the last quarterly report, with EPS expectations down 32 percent and revenues down 6 percent.
Wall Street believes the U.S. presidential race is a lot closer than what the polls show, Strategas Research Partners told clients on Tuesday, highlighting the outperformance of the firm's proprietary Republican stock portfolio.
Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton leads in every poll by a significant margin over her Republican opponent Donald Trump. That lead, however, is not reflected in the firm's Democratic portfolio, which is underperforming by 6 percent since the FBI issued a report on Clinton's email on July 5, according to Daniel Clifton, head of policy research at Strategas Research Partners.
"The Republican portfolio has continued to outperform even with Trump imploding in early August," he said. "Is this the market thinking maybe there could be more pay to play details coming out on Clinton that ultimately derail her candidacy?"
As fashion retailers look for better results in the fall and holiday seasons, shares of Abercrombie & Fitch and G-III Apparel plummeted Tuesday after the companies reported quarterly earnings that disappointed. DSW shares dropped, as well, even after the company posted earnings Tuesday that beat analysts' estimates.
Both Agrium  and Potash confirmed late Tuesday morning they are in discussions for a merger of equals.
Shares of the Canadian fertilizer firms initially jumped 12 percent before trade was briefly halted, after Bloomberg reported that both companies were in talks about a merger. Options were active on rumors of the discussions.
The stocks briefly reopened before trade was temporarily halted again. Trade resumed after official confirmation from the two firms.
Agrium shares ended the day up 7 percent, while shares of Potash climbed more than 10 percent on the day. Both stocks traded in positive territory for the year.
SunTrust increased its target price of VMware by 44 percent on Tuesday, upgrading the stock to buy from neutral on expectations of higher revenue growth due to the firm's full expansion into cloud computing.
"VMware's concerted efforts over last few years to transition away from being 'only' a server virtualization company are now complete. Now, VMware is a much broader access, cloud and data center software provider," SunTrust analyst John Rizzuto wrote. "Our estimates head higher. And with a backdrop of accelerating revenue, VMware's valuation looks compelling."
In the research note, the analyst increased the firm's 12-month price target to $92 from $64, an increase of 44 percent. The new level implies a gain of 22 percent from Monday's close.
In January, one of the prevailing market themes was the tight correlation between oil prices and the stock market. But now no such correlation exists, with the market simply adrift, correlated to nothing.
Stocks are just doing their own thing, which is why they've been so confusing for traders over the last few weeks. It's an environment that could be conducive to stock pickers but rough on trend followers.
Back in January, oil and stocks moved so tightly together that the close of oil at 2:30 p.m. ET would be the only opportunity for stocks to behave independently. You could see it in the intraday charts. Everything before that point was mainly oil-driven. Eventually that phase passed.
Later, the drama over Brexit and interest rates moved the market. That world has ended, too.
Now, there really is no particular driving factor.
CNBC ran a variety of correlations between the S&P 500 and other major market movers. There was not a single high-value correlation with any of those trades. And that included looking at the one-, two-, three- and four-month correlations. Nothing stood out.
After trailing the market this year, shares of McDonald's are now a good value, especially considering their 3.1 percent dividend yield, according to David Tarantino of Baird Equity Research, who has upgraded the stock to outperform from neutral.
"We believe the risk/reward on MCD has become more favorable for investors with a 6-12+ month horizon," Tarantino wrote to clients Tuesday. "While we acknowledge that slower U.S. industry demand trends and challenging upcoming comparisons pose a short-term headwind, we believe the company's attractive dividend yield can help to limit further downside risk in the shares, and we see opportunity for investor sentiment to improve as MCD gets past challenging compares and shows further progress on enhancing its business model."
The analyst raised his 12-month price target to $128, representing a 10 percent increase from Monday's close. McDonald's is down 3 percent on the year, trailing a 6 percent gain for the Dow Jones industrial average.
A large portion of the financial markets, and one that played a pivotal role during the financial crisis, is about to undergo substantial changes.
At the core of the rules is an effort to stabilize the $2.7 trillion industry, which provides a generally safe climate where both retail and institutional investors can park funds and earn modest returns with the bonus that they will never lose money.
For a brief moment in time, that compact was broken.
In 2008, as the financial world crumbled under the weight of the financial crisis that took down Wall Street and threatened to crush the global economy, one fund did the unthinkable: It "broke the buck." That means its share price fell below $1 due to heavy losses it experienced from the collapse of Lehman Brothers. The move by the Reserve Primary Fund set off a wave of panic over possible redemptions and the implosion of a sector that at the time boasted nearly $3.5 trillion in assets.
The new rules seek to prevent a similar occurrence in the future. They allow all funds to block investors — using what are known as "gates" — from withdrawing cash during times of market volatility, a move that coincides with a mandate that retail and government funds maintain a $1 share price. The rules allow prime institutional funds to move to a floating value, meaning they have the possibility both for greater return and greater risk.
"Essentially, the rules are intended to make sure that we don't have a run out of the funds, to protect investors," said Blaine Aikin, executive chairman at fi360, which provides information and training to financial services providers.
Apple — The European Commission has ordered the Irish government to recover up to 13 billion euros ($14.5 billion) and interest in back taxes from the iPhone maker. Shares were 1 percent lower in premarket trade.
Mondelez, Hershey — Merger talks between the two food manufacturers fell apart after the Oreo cookie maker said late Monday it ended discussions of a potential combination with the chocolate company. Mondelez shares were more than 3.5 percent higher in premarket trade, while Hershey shares were nearly 11 percent lower.
American Airlines, United Continental — American Airlines President J. Scott Kirby left the firm for the same role at United, the companies said late Monday. American shares were off more than 2 percent in premarket trade, while United shares were up more than 4 percent.
Stocks may continue pricing in the positives of higher interest rates Tuesday.
On Monday, stocks rallied in their best performance since Aug. 5. The S&P 500 was up 11 at 2180 Monday, and the sector leading the market was the group that benefits most from higher interest rate hikes – the financials. The S&P financial sector was up nearly a percent.
For Tuesday's market, there is S&P/Case-Shiller home price data at 9 a.m. EDT and consumer confidence at 10 a.m.
On the surface, it's been nothing short of awful this year. Only 59 initial public offerings have priced, that's about half what it normally would be.
"The IPO market is half a heartbeat away from getting out the paddles," David Menlow of IPOfinancial.com quipped.
But IPO watchers are hopeful that the fall will see a flurry of activity, for three reasons:
Despite the dearth of IPOs, the returns on what has gone public have been improving. After lagging most of the year, the Renaissance Capital IPO ETF, a basket of the 60 most recent, largest IPOs, is up 8.3 percent this quarter, outperforming the S&P's 6.8 percent gain.
Bottom line: The IPO market has been lousy for issuers, but it's been improving for investors.
What are investors clamoring for in IPOs this fall? What they want is growth. Remember, this is an era where a lot of companies are growing earnings through financial engineering like buybacks but have no real revenue growth. Companies with revenue growth are in demand.
You can see this in the IPOs that have done best so far this year:
All tech companies, all with growth.
Let's look at IPO hopefuls for the second half. There is not much on the calendar, but there are roughly 100 companies that have filed a public S-1 statement and could go public fairly quickly.
Growth can be found in two sectors: technology and consumer.
The dollar index has risen following speculation of a rate hike by the Federal Reserve, and Piper Jaffray technical analyst Craig Johnson sees that as positive for the once-struggling financial stocks.
"We're finding strength in the financial sector," he said Monday on CNBC's "Power Lunch." "Perhaps we're going to see a rate hike in November or December. Financials look good [and] they will benefit off of that, and a lot of the large-cap banks are turning higher."
Financials were previously the worst-performing sector on the S&P 500 before Mylan's EpiPen drama sank health care. But even before health care's drop, the financial sector had actually begun seeing signs of a turnaround. For the most part, second-quarter earnings were better than expected for big banks, many of whom saw their stocks rise and recover during the summer. More recently, Janet Yellen's Friday speech in Jackson Hole has spurred speculation that the Fed could be set to raise rates in December, if not September.
Aside from the big banks, there could be other big names who could benefit from the stronger dollar. Dennis Davitt, partner at Harvest Volatility Management, believes that businesses with more U.S.-based revenues could also see their stocks rise.
"I look at things like Wal-Mart, Hershey's, big companies, not necessarily small companies, but a predominant amount of their revenues come from the United States," he said. "So stocks that will behave well in an overheated U.S. economy will do well, and it might be people who you wouldn't expect."
Davitt's view rests on the fact that a stronger dollar means that import costs will be higher for foreign countries, making U.S. goods more expensive. Since a rising dollar would tend to mean that the U.S. economy is improving, companies with more U.S.-based revenues could see more consumers as opposed to those with a more international focus.
"[Products] made in the United States are going to be harder to sell overseas because the dollar is stronger, [but] take it from the point that the U.S. economy is stronger," he added.
Every American has the God-given right to lose money in the financial markets, and one of the fastest ways to do it is trading futures contracts.
Whether it's oil, Treasury bonds, foreign currencies or stock indexes, if you're speculating on asset price movements with futures contracts, you can lose a lot of money very quickly.
"Don't come into the market slinging futures contracts," said Anthony Crudele, head of online future trader community Beacon Trader. "It's just not smart.
"People have to educate themselves before they start using them," he added.
While the S&P 500 appears to be consolidating after its breakout out to record highs, two technical analysts believe that another way of looking at the market suggests that further gains are ahead.
Chris Verrone, technical analyst at Strategas, said Wednesday on CNBC's "Power Lunch" that the average stock within the capitalization-weighted  S&P 500 is doing better than the index itself. In other words, if the S&P 500 were viewed by giving the same weight to each of its components during 2016, then the performance would be better.
Within the S&P 500, the influence of one of the index's individual components on the S&P's performance depends on the value of that company's available shares. For this reason, Apple makes up about 3 percent of the index, while Diamond Offshore comprises less than 0.01 percent.
An alternate way of looking at how large-cap stocks are doing is taking each of the stocks in the S&P 500 as an equal component, so that each has a weight of about 0.2 percent. When the normal S&P 500 is compared to this equal-weighted version, one finds that the alternate way of looking at the index is outperforming nicely, indicating that smaller stocks are outperforming their larger peers.
In fact, while the S&P 500 is up almost 6 percent this year, Verrone says that if you equally weighed all the stocks in the S&P 500, the index is actually up closer to 9 percent. According to Verrone, this shows positive signs for the market.
"The outperformance of the equal-weight index suggests that participation in the rally has broadened out, it's not just the large weights driving returns," he said in an email Thursday.
Piper Jaffray technical analyst Craig Johnson also sees this as a good sign. As small- and mid-cap stocks rise in the S&P 500, Johnson sees the market following.
"I do see the breadth of the market start to pick up," he told CNBC on Tuesday. "February had very low readings, but now the market is broadening and [that's a sign that] the bull market is moving higher."
Johnson sees the market moving 8 to 9 percent higher by year-end.
Shares of Ford fell 8 percent Thursday as the automaker posted second-quarter earnings that missed Wall Street estimates, and outlined "challenges" to achieving 2016 guidance.
Ford's stock traded near $12.50, headed for its worst day since January 2011. Ford has already more than doubled its 30-day average volume of 34 million shares, trading over 77.6 million shares traded by Thursday afternoon.
The car company reported an adjusted profit of 52 cents per share for the second quarter, 8 cents below 60 cent estimates from analysts polled by Thomson Reuters.
The Dearborn, Michigan-based company's net income fell roughly 9 percent to $2 billion, Ford said, hit by sales in China. Revenue rose to $39.5 billion from $37.3 a year ago.
"Ford committed to full year guidance of company pretax profit and operating margin equal to or better than last year; however, company now sees risks challenging achieving guidance," the company said in its earnings statement.
The automaker outlined risks in the second half of 2016, including a decline in industry sales volume for the U.S., China, and Europe due to financial crisis, recession, and geopolitical events such as the Brexit. Ford also said increased volatility in fuel prices, and fluctuation in currency could affect results going forward.
Results in China were hit by higher costs and a weaker yuan, the company said. Wholesales were lower on the back of an eight-week shutdown of a Chongqing plant for upgrades.
The second-quarter last year was helped by the launch of the F-150. F-series sales helped U.S. market share rise to 15.3 percent, up three-tenths of a point from last year, the company said.
CNBC "Squawk Box" Platinum Portfolio investor Louis Navellier bought Nvidia for his model portfolio Thursday. His portfolio is up 7 percent this year in the trading contest.
In another move, Navellier sold Public Storage for his model portfolio.
Here is why the chairman of Navellier & Associates bought the graphics chipmaker.
Shares of Cirrus Logic climbed more than 19 percent Thursday after the company released better-than-expected quarterly earnings and a strong business outlook.
The audio company reported fiscal first-quarter earnings of 44 cents per share on revenue of $259.4 million, beating analysts' projections for 25 cents per share on revenue of $236.4 million, according to Thomson Reuters consensus estimates. The results were down from the same period a year earlier when it posted profit of 54 cents a share on revenue of $282.6 million.
Cirrus Logic said it believes the introduction of its new products will drive strong growth throughout fiscal 2017. Analysts at Canaccord Genuity raised their price target from $52 to $56, attributing the company's growth to its share expansion within the Android ecosystem as well as content gains with top customers.
"We believe adoption of premium audio features (such as those seen in the iPhone) is set to accelerate as Android OEMs look to differentiate," according to a report from Canaccord Genuity.
The company's revenue guidance for the fiscal second quarter ranged between $380 million and $410 million.
Shares of Cirrus Logic have climbed more than 68 percent this year.
CRUS YTD
We're at the halfway mark for earnings. More than half of the S&P 500 has reported as of this morning.
Here's the good news:
1. Guidance for the second half of the year has been steady.  Most companies that comment are reaffirming third quarter and full-year guidance.
This is far and away the most important takeaway from earnings season so far and is the main reason the S&P 500 is holding up just short of historic highs.
2. Overall earnings for the S&P 500 in the second quarter are still negative, but not deteriorating. The earnings "narrative" has been that earnings bottomed in the first quarter, are improving in the second quarter, will likely be positive in the third quarter, and show notable improvement in the fourth.
So far, that "narrative" is holding:
S&P 500 Earnings 2016:
Q1: Down 5 percent
Q2 (est.): Down 2.8 percent
Q3 (est.): Up 1 percent
Q4 (est.): Up 9 percent
Source: Thomson Reuters
It's important for earnings to show improvement because after four consecutive quarters of negative growth bulls must be able to point to an improvement in earnings to justify current high stock prices. Without it, it's much easier to argue that stocks are overvalued.
There are other smaller signs of improvement:
1. Not only are companies beating earnings estimates (they typically do), but they are beating the numbers by a larger amount than usual.  The companies that have reported so far on average have beaten earnings by 5.9 percent, well above the long-term average of 3 percent.
2. The ratio of companies guiding lower vs. companies guiding higher has been dropping in the second quarter, and is also lower for the third quarter.
What could go wrong with this "onward and upward" scenario?  There are four areas of concern:
1. Oil breaks down again.  This is the clearest present danger to earnings.  The gasoline glut, along with some demand weakness globally, has pushed oil out of its two-month trading range of $45-$50 a barrel and into the $41 range.
This was not supposed to happen.  Oil company earnings projections are based on stable oil now that rises gently going into 2017.  BP's CEO, for example, is working on assumptions that oil will be $50-$60 going into 2017.
Analysts are projecting that oil companies as a group will turn profitable in the fourth quarter based on this assumption:
Energy
Q1: Down 10 percent
Q2 (est.): Down 77 percent
Q3 (est.): Down 52 percent
Q4 (est.): Up 20 percent
Source:  Thomson Reuters
If that doesn't happen — if oil is $40 a barrel instead of $50-$60 as we get into the fourth quarter, all of the oil company earnings estimates will have to come down.
This morning, Goldman Sachs said that oil was likely to remain in the $45-$50 range into mid-2017.
And remember, oil is a proxy for global growth, so you are likely to hear from other global companies about slower overseas growth prospects, even if the U.S. economy is strong.
2. Brexit concerns. This is also a very real concern, however European stocks have come notably off their lows.  Credit Suisse's CEO said this morning that Brexit "has no impact—yet."
3. China slowdown.  Many multinational now get a significant amount of revenues from China,  China has been one of the worst performers among world markets this year (the Shanghai Exchange is down 15 percent), though the markets have been quiet lately.
4. Dollar strength. The dollar has rallied significantly since April.
Another issue is the size of the U.S. economic recovery, and whether it will translate into real revenue growth, which has also stalled.   Revenues have been flat to down along with earnings for the past four quarters, and there is no sign of a major pickup in capital spending in the second half of the year, at least not yet.
Infinera shares lost a third of their value on Thursday after the company said it expects current-quarter sales to come in lower than Wall Street had predicted.
On a Wednesday earnings call, the company forecast third-quarter sales between $180 million and $190 million, well below analyst predictions of about $273 million, according to a Thomson Reuters consensus estimate.
While the company posted a beat on the top and bottom line, CEO Tom Fallon said in a statement that "demand is softening in certain areas of our business and we face a difficult near-term revenue outlook."
MKM on Thursday lowered its rating on Activision Blizzard to neutral from buy, saying the company is fully valued given its growth prospects.
"We like the long-term story but a lot of good news appears priced in," analyst Eric Handler wrote in a note to clients.
"We find valuation stretched (even at an aggressive case EPS scenario). Furthermore, we believe investors are already pricing in a 2Q beat and raise quarter and may be jumping the gun on Activision's mobile advertising rollout for King Digital."
The company is scheduled to report second-quarter results on Aug. 4.
GoPro's stock spiked more than 12 percent Thursday after the company posted its quarterly results.
The company posted quarterly revenue that slumped more than 47 percent, but still beat Street forecasts, which have been lowered amid waning demand for the firm's products.
GoPro's revenue fell to $220.8 million in the second quarter from $420 million a year earlier.
The company said it is maintaining its full-year revenue guidance of $1.35 billion to $1.5 billion, on the higher end of the average of $1.34 billion expected by Wall Street analysts.
GoPro's CEO Nicholas Woodman said the company's revenue suffered last year because it had too many products.
"They weren't strong enough and at the end of the year we loaded them into the retail channel, Woodman said about the products on "Squawk Alley." "Sell-through wasn't there and we're just now selling through that product, so we should now see revenue starting to rise."
Woodman also said the company will be rolling out new products later this year.
"Last year, we hit a speed bump because we didn't have enough new products and we didn't have enough innovation," Woodman said. " I think our arch is in the opposite direction because the back-half of this year is loaded with the largest new product introduction in the history of GoPro."
Woodman mentioned that GoPro's HERO5 and Karma will contribute to the success of the company's new products.
GoPro's shares have slumped more than 27 percent in the year-to-date.
GoPro's year-to-date performance:
The last of the Cramer-coined FANG stocks — Facebook, Amazon, Netflix and Google parent Alphabet — are set to report earnings after Thursday's closing bell, and traders are expecting some big moves from the mega-cap names.
The options market is implying an 8 percent jolt in either direction for online retailer Amazon, which has rallied more than 9 percent this year. If the move were to result to the upside, it could send shares as high as $800 — uncharted territory for the stock and well beyond its prior high of around $757 hit earlier this month.
As for Alphabet, the options market is anticipating a more than 5 percent shift up or down. The stock has been underperforming on a year-to-date basis, but it is up more than 13 percent from its late-June low of just under $673 per share.
If both of these moves were to pan out, it could represent a more than $50 billion shift in market cap.
Options traders calculate the implied move for equities by measuring a particular stock's so called straddle — or at the money put and call. The amount of the straddle typically captures market makers' expectations for how much a stock is going to move.
Thus far, earnings results for the group of stocks have been mixed. Netflix shares initially gapped down following a disappointing earnings report. Facebook hit an all-time high Thursday after a blowout report 
 on Wednesday.
Groupon CEO Rich Williams said Thursday the daily deals company is fighting for customers but not for its very survival.
While surging about 27 percent at the open on encouraging quarterly results and outlook, Groupon stock has lost about 80 percent of its value over the past five years.
Williams told "Squawk Box" it's time to "double down" on the core business of serving local companies and consumers.
"We're a leader in the space. There's a ton of room for innovation in local that we're pursuing and that we think has significant long term yet to be realized," Williams said.
He also stressed the importance of  "making it ... really easy for merchants and small businesses to work on our platform and connect with customers."
Groupon late Wednesday posted a smaller-than-expected loss of a penny per share and higher-than-expected revenue. Analysts had expected a 2 cent loss.
The online marketplace also increased its 2016 revenue and earnings forecasts.
Williams cited various products and services as areas of focus, such as delivery and takeout, ticketing and health and beauty.
"We obviously watch the big platforms. You can't deny the scale and scope and the power in the big platforms like Google and Facebook," he added. "But we spend most of our time thinking about the customer ... [and] great offerings vertical by vertical."
Jim Cramer said Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg is a "big thinker," citing the executive's well-noted push for live video, virtual reality and messenger chatbots.
Facebook's stock surged more than 3 percent Thursday, the morning after the company posted earnings and revenue that blew past analyst estimates. Shares jumped nearly 6 percent Wednesday after hours, briefly over $131 per share.
"[Zuckerberg] made a case that said look, there is going to be 7 billion people. ... We are going to wire the world," Cramer told CNBC's "Squawk on the Street." "The natural way to communicate is through video. He is basically saying, listen, virtual is now. Obviously the advertisers love it."
Cramer also noted Zuckerberg's talk with investors on the importance of artificial intelligence in the near future to serve consumers.
"What [Zuckerberg] is saying is people like to do many things at once," he said. "This is a very millennial thing. I pick up the phone ... 'Can I have reservations for two?' What he is basically saying is, I want to do that while I'm doing five other different things."
Separately, he adds comments on Facebook's strategy for advertisements and potentially "shorting" other competition. Facebook will take 67.9 percent of social-media advertising dollars worldwide this year, eMarketer estimates.
"Facebook does not have a lot advertisement yet versus what it is going to have," Cramer said.
Most Wall Street analysts had glowing reviews of Facebook's earnings Thursday morning, except one.
Boutique research firm Monness Crespi Hardt downgraded the social network's stock to neutral from buy, telling investors to take profits due to a full valuation and rising costs related to video production.
Facebook's second quarter results blew away the consensus estimates on Wall Street and included some staggering figures, including mobile ad revenue growth of greater than 80 percent. More than 20 Wall Street analysts raised their price target on the stock after the earnings, according to FactSet data.
But not Monness analyst James Cakmak, who wrote to clients, "Despite the dominance of the platform, favorable secular trends, and emerging opportunities in new digital categories, we see diminishing upside to revenue prospects during our projection horizon."
While the stock market and oil prices have been going up and down in tandem recently, historically they tend to move in opposite directions, closely followed market watcher Dennis Gartman said Thursday.
"The belief generally on the Street, 'As goes oil prices, so goes stock prices,' that's nonsense," said the founder and publisher of The Gartman Letter.
Over the "last five or six years," charts show crude going down and stock prices going up," he argued. "The correlation is negative, not positive."
Both stocks and U.S. crude bottomed for the year on Feb. 11, and for the most part continued to move higher together. West Texas Intermediate crude has surged more than 50 percent since then, while the S&P 500 has gained about 17 percent since its 2016 low.
"You had a period of about three or four months where they did in fact move in correlation with one and other. On balance over broad periods of time, the correlation is negative," Gartman said.
"If you did get crude oil [back] down to $35 then something is going on economically that's taking stock prices down," he said. "But it's not crude that's weighing upon stock prices, it will be economic activity that's weighing upon stock prices."
As if Whole Foods Market wasn't getting hammered enough by investors following its fiscal third-quarter earnings release on Wednesday, the company is now taking a hit from the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office.
The grocery chain, which currently claims it's "America's Healthiest Grocery Store," attempted to update its advertising slogan to "World's Healthiest Grocery Store" but was rejected by the agency, according to The Washington Post.
The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office rejected the trademark on the basis that the claim was an exaggeration and can't be proven or has not been proven to be true, the report said.
The attempted slogan change comes as Whole Foods looks to expand its brand globally. Currently, the company has chains in the United States, Canada and the United Kingdom.
However, it has its share of troubles at home. Weak sales, a competitive environment and declining food prices could be major headwinds for it moving forward. Shares in the company were down more than 8 percent midmorning Thursday.
"We are seeing some encouraging signs in terms of our sales and believe our nine-point plan will produce strong returns for our shareholders over the long term," Walter Robb, co-chief executive officer of Whole Foods, said in a statement.
Almost a dozen analysts lowered their September 2016 estimates for the company on Thursday, according to FactSet.
"We are encouraged by 365 and other behind-the scenes initiatives, but believe it's prudent to wait for signs WFM is reaccelerating legacy business trends in FY17 before warranting a premium multiple needed to justify owning shares," Phil Terpolilli, an analyst at Wedbush, wrote in a research note Thursday.
So far, the grocer has opened two 365 by Whole Foods Market stores, which are smaller stores that hope to create a more budget-friendly image. The plan is to build the format to more than 1,200 stores eventually.
Whole Foods' trademark attempt suggests the company may be eyeing further international expansion at some point. However, in Wednesday's earnings release, the retailer focused on its expansion in the U.S. calling out leases it signed in Los Angeles, New York City, Pittsburgh and Atlanta.
The company didn't reply to interview requests, according to the Post article.
Read the full report from The Washington Post.
Garmin shares soared 11 percent Wednesday after the company reported second-quarter earnings that blew estimates out of the water.
The company posted pro forma earnings of 87 cents a share on revenues of $812 million. Analysts had expected the company to report earnings of 67 cents a share on $763 million in revenue, according to a Thomson Reuters consensus estimate.
The stock hit at 52-week intraday high of $52.14.
Garmin also raised its guidance after evaluating its performance in the first half of the year, President and CEO Cliff Pemble said in a statement.
"Fitness and outdoor achieved impressive revenue and profit growth driven by our strengthening position in the wearables market. Aviation and marine also delivered revenue and profit growth while auto remains a solid base of profit contributions to the overall business," Pemble said.
Check out which companies are making headlines before the bell:
Ford Motor — The automaker missed estimates by eight cents a share, with adjusted second quarter profit of 52 cents per share. Revenue beat forecasts. Higher incentive costs helped lead to lower-than-expected profit margins, impacting the bottom line.
Dow Chemical — The chemical maker reported adjusted quarterly profit of 95 cents per share, beating estimates by 10 cents a share. Revenue also came in above forecasts, and Dow's bottom line was helped by a jump in profit margins that was spurred by cost cuts.
Colgate-Palmolive — The consumer products maker beat estimates by a penny a share, with adjusted quarterly profit of 70 cents per share. Revenue was very slightly shy of Street estimates. The company said it is pleased with its organic sales growth and overall performance, especially in light of challenging macroeconomic conditions.
Raytheon — The defense contractor's quarterly profit of $2.38 per share was well above estimates of $1.74 a share. Revenue topped estimates, as well. The company also raised its full-year forecast, the latest of the government contractors to forecast an improved outlook.
ConocoPhillips — The oil giant's second-quarter loss was wider than forecast. Conoco also lowered its 2016 capital spending forecast amid continued lower oil prices.
Hershey  — The chocolate maker came in seven cents a share above estimates, with quarterly profit of 85 cents per share. Revenue beat forecasts, as well. The quarter also featured Hershey's first quarterly sales rise in a year.
Harley-Davidson — The motorcycle maker earned $1.55 per share for its latest quarter, beating estimates by two cents a share. Revenue was very slightly above estimates. Harley also lowered its full-year shipment forecast, as sales slowed in the key U.S. market.
Facebook — The social media giant beat estimates by 15 cents a share, with adjusted quarterly profit of 82 cents per share. Revenue also beat forecasts. Facebook also reported more than 1.7 billion monthly active users and its shares are poised to hit an all-time high.
Whole Foods — Whole Foods matched estimates with profit of 37 cents per share, with revenue slightly below analysts'   forecasts. The grocery chain saw comparable-store sales drop 2.6 percent, more than expected, and is on track for its first yearly drop in same-store sales since 2009.
Alere — Alere received a Justice Department subpoena seeking Medicare and Medicaid billing records over the past six years. The stock initially got hit hard in after-market trading when word of the subpoena got out, but recovered strongly after the diagnostic testing company issued a statement and said it was fully cooperating and that it did not believe matters related to the subpoena were material.
Amgen —  Amgen reported adjusted quarterly profit of $2.84 per share, ten cents a share above estimates. Revenue came in above forecasts, as well. The biotech company also raised its full-year outlook on stronger sales of rheumatoid arthritis drug Enbrel and other medicines.
GoPro — GoPro lost an adjusted 52 cents per share for its latest quarter, six cents a share wider than estimates. Revenue did beat Street forecasts. The maker of high definition cameras also reaffirmed its prior full-year forecast despite waning demand for its products.
Groupon — Groupon posted a quarterly loss of one cent per share, smaller than the two cent loss expected by Wall Street. The daily deals company also saw revenue beat forecasts, and it increased its 2016 revenue and earnings forecasts as it adds new customers.
Cheesecake Factory — Cheesecake Factory reported quarterly profit of 78 cents per share, seven cents a share above estimates. The restaurant chain's revenue missed forecasts, however, as same-store sales grew by a lower-than-expected 0.3 percent. Cheesecake Factory did announce a 20 percent dividend increase to 24 cents per share and expanded its share repurchase authorization.
Marriott — Marriott earned an adjusted $1.03 per share for the second quarter, five cents a share above estimates. The hotel chain's revenue matched forecasts. Marriott said slower economic growth impacted its results, but that it is still seeing solid demand in both the leisure and business segments.
Alcoa — Alcoa announced a one-for-three reverse stock split, pending shareholder approval at a special meeting called for October 5. The move comes ahead of Alcoa's plan to split into two separate companies.
AstraZeneca — The drugmaker saw second-quarter profit drop by almost a third, as generic competition weighed on sales of its best-selling Crestor cholesterol treatment.
Diageo — Diageo reported a drop in annual profit due to currency volatility, but the maker of Smirnoff vodka and other spirits brand said business was rebounding strongly in the second half of its fiscal year and that it expects this to continue into the new year.
Sometimes the market isn't straightforward. The Federal Reserve hinted that it could raise rates in September, and the price of oil cascaded lower. Yet, Jim Cramer still didn't see enough reasons for stocks to sell off on Wednesday.
Investors who held the stocks of Panera Bread, Buffalo Wild Wings, Caterpillar and Boeing were all surprised with earnings, and gave them no reason to sell. That meant short-sellers got the short end of the stick and had to scramble to cover their shorts.
"Short-sellers set up an ambush for the owners ... but these ambushes failed because the companies didn't give you a reason to sell. When there are no short-sellers, there is no way a short-seller can make money," the "Mad Money" host said.
The worst performing stocks of the entire market, Cramer said, were the airline stocks. That meant Boeing had a horrendous set-up going into its quarter, especially with the massive $2 billion account charge it took last week.
But then Boeing crushed the numbers with both a top and bottom line beat and reaffirmed full-year guidance. The result was a huge move to the upside, as there was no reason to sell the stock.
"That is a long, not a short. In fact, it's a good short spoiled," Cramer said.
Sometimes the market isn't straightforward. The Federal Reserve hinted that it could raise rates in September, and the price of oil cascaded lower. Yet, Jim Cramer still didn't see enough reasons for stocks to sell off on Wednesday.
Investors who held the stocks of Panera Bread, Buffalo Wild Wings, Caterpillar and Boeing were all surprised with earnings, and gave them no reason to sell. That meant short-sellers got the short end of the stick and had to scramble to cover their shorts.
"Short-sellers set up an ambush for the owners ... but these ambushes failed because the companies didn't give you a reason to sell. When there are no short-sellers, there is no way a short-seller can make money," the "Mad Money" host said.
Investment firm Stifel made a risky move on Tuesday when it recommended investors to sell Panera Bread on the same day the company reported earnings. Cramer found that the analyst based his call on reasonable assumptions: that the economy was slowing and the restaurant space could be the wrong place to be in a slowdown.
Federal criminal investigators have opened a new front in a probe of diagnostic testing company Alere, according to a new report that comes as the firm continues trying to sell itself to Abbott Labs in a multibillion-dollar deal.
Shares of LogMeIn  shot up nearly 20 percent Wednesday on news of the company's merger with the GoTo unit of Citrix Systems in a roughly $1.8 billion dollar deal.
The provider of business communications services LogMeIn entered into a definitive merger agreement with Citirx for its collaborative communications services GoTo unit on Tuesday, both companies announced Tuesday.
Shares of Citrix were down about 1.5 percent after the news.
According to a joint release, the combined company is expected to have annual revenues of greater than $1 billion, with more than two million customers.
"We are extremely excited about this transformative merger and the profound benefits it will bring to our customers, our people and our shareholders," said Bill Wagner, the president and CEO of LogMeIn, who will also lead the combined company as president and CEO, in the release. "The additional scale of the combined company will allow us to accelerate innovation in order to deliver better outcomes for our customers and also creates a compelling financial model that will reward our shareholders."
Shares of biotech company Illumina spiked 8 percent Wednesday after the company handily beat Wall Street estimates a day earlier.
The stock was the second-biggest gainer in the S&P 500, and added the most gains to the S&P health care sector. Shares of the genetic sequencing company traded near $162.03, still lower than their 52-week high of $220.86.
The San Diego-based company earned 86 cents per share in the second quarter, up from 80 cents in the same period last year. Revenue came in at $600 million, up 11 percent year over year, the company said.
Analysts polled by Thomson Reuters had expected earnings of 73 cents per share and sales of $593.21 million.
Guidance was soft for the third quarter though, and Illumina said it expects revenue between $625 million and $630 million, below Thomson Reuters consensus expectations of $632 million.
Buffalo Wild Wings' stock spiked 10 percent Wednesday as investors bet a new shareholder could shake things up at the restaurant chain.
Earlier in the week, activist investor Marcato Capital Management acquired a 5.1 percent stake in the company.
"We like to have open conversations with all of our shareholders, and it's something that we do continually," Buffalo Wild Wings CEO Sally Smith told CNBC Wednesday on "Squawk Box." "I think Marcato Capital is another shareholder that we want to listen to as we do with all of our large shareholders."
On Tuesday, B-Dubs posted second-quarter earnings that outpaced Wall Street forecasts. Revenue rose 15 percent to $490 million.
Same-store sales in the latest period came up short, falling 2.1 percent at company-owned restaurants and slipping 2.6 percent at franchised restaurants.
"We controlled costs and expenses well in a challenging sales environment, and this discipline, along with our revenue growth, helped us to achieve earnings per diluted share of $1.27, a 13.1 percent increase compared to the prior year," CEO Sally Smith said in Tuesday's press release. "In the second quarter, we opportunistically repurchased $75 million of our common stock, delivering value to our shareholders."
Buffalo Wild Wings' shares have dropped about 4 percent in the past year.
Buffalo Wild Wings' 12-month performance:

Shares of Anheuser-Busch InBev took a hit following SABMiller's announcement to halt its integration with AB InBev.
Earlier, SABMiller reported that it would meet to review the revised Anheuser-Busch InBev offer in light of recent exchange rate volatility and market movements.
The initial offer was worth roughly $108 million prior to Britain's decision to leave the European Union. Following Brexit, the valuation of the deal fell with the value of sterling. On Tuesday, AB InBev raised its offer to merge with SABMiller to approximately $103.81 billion.
SABMiller had begun working with AB InBev on integrating finance, technology, and procurement, according to a person familiar with the deal.
The deal was clinched with an agreement for Denver-based Molson Coors to take over SABMiller's 58 percent stake in their venture, MillerCoors, reported to Reuters.
AB InBev shares fell more than 3 percent on Wednesday, while Molson Coors shares fell 5 percent. Additionally, U.S. cigarette maker and one of SABMiller's biggest shareholders, Altria Group, dropped 1.74 percent
If the deal goes through, AB InBev's takeover of SABMiller would be one of the largest mergers in corporate history.
Shares of AB InBev have fallen more than 2 percent this year.
BUD YTD
As Twitter plunges after its earnings report, one analyst is cutting his price target on the stock as he draws a grim parallel between the social media outfit and a notoriously tattered tech company.
Twitter is "the Yahoo of social media," Wedbush analyst Michael Pachter proclaimed in a Wednesday note, days after Verizon announced an acquisition of Yahoo's operating business for a fraction of what the internet pioneer was worth at its peak.
Twitter, like Yahoo, has allowed itself to stagnate, said Pachter.
"Management appears complacent about the status quo and unfocused on the lack of user growth," the analyst wrote. "Until Twitter is focused on attracting new users, driving increased use by its existing users, and demonstrating its value proposition to people who don't use the service, we expect it to grow very slowly."
Even worse, "its service is too complicated and difficult to use for the average Internet user despite multiple changes."
After a beat on earnings, a miss on revenue, weak guidance and flattish monthly active users, Pachter reduced his price target on the stock to $14 from $20. On Wednesday, Twitter fell below $16 per share.
He wasn't the only analyst cutting expectations. Cantor Fitzgerald analyst Youssef Squali reduced his rating on the stock to hold from buy, and his price target to $18 from $23, based on his anticipation that it "reigniting growth is likely to take longer," as the company loses share to Facebook and to Alphabet's Google.
Traders are falling back in love with Tesla, according to data showing a surge in bullish mentions of the stock on Twitter.
Social Market Analytics, which scans posts on social networks to form predictive trading signals, shows Tesla had the biggest jump in bullish mentions in the last week among major U.S. stocks. The shares are up just a little more than 1 percent in the last five days, but if this data were any indication, then traders could be making Elon Musk's electric car company one of their favorite muses again.
Accidents involving autopilot technology, an odd proposed merger with SolarCity and worse-than-expected vehicle deliveries weighed on the stock recently.
But a week ago, Musk released his "Master Plan, Part Deux" outlining his grand vision for Tesla and that's apparently got traders excited again in the face of the many headwinds.
Below are the other stocks seeing the biggest one-week jump in bullish sentiment on Twitter, according to SMA.
The chips seem to be falling into place for casino stocks, but investors keen on hitting the jackpot may need to take a step back.
The biggest names in the business have seen their stocks surge in the past month or so. Las Vegas Sands has rallied around 6 percent this week so far since reporting earnings Monday, and rival Wynn Resorts, which has yet to release earnings, has also surged 46 percent year to date. Rounding out the international names is Melco Crown, which looks to be recovering with a 10 percent rise this quarter alone.
But a report released by Stifel Nicolaus on Monday evening suggested that investors may want to be careful before betting on the casinos. The report gave a price target of $56 for Las Vegas Sands and a generally positive outlook for the casino giant. But it also mentions that investors should watch for a recovery in the casino business and wait to see how the industry reacts to new openings.
The key, according to Stifel Nicolaus, lies with Macau.
"An improved Macau macro environment would strengthen our conviction in our constructive long-term outlook for the Macau market and the shares of its largest player," Stifel mentioned in its Monday note.
Both Las Vegas Sands and Wynn Resorts have big stakes in Macau, a special administrative region of China known for its vibrant gambling industry. In fact, the story behind Las Vegas Sands' surge in spite of the earnings miss hinges on the fact that June was the first month since September 2014 when mass gaming volume and revenue actually increased year over year.
Las Vegas Sands CEO Sheldon Adelson himself emphasized the importance of his company's Macau names in the Q2 earnings call on Monday, saying that "when it comes to emerging market opportunities, we are unique in the absolute scale of our cash flow as well as our dominant share of the industry's cash flow."
Adelson was also asked about competitor Wynn's plans in the region, as the latter is set to open its third resort in Macau in August. This is just one month before Las Vegas Sands opens the doors to its own highly anticipated resort, The Parisian, showing the intensifying competition in the area.
However, though casinos may have seen growth as of late, there could still be a ways to go before casino stocks can get onto solid footing. Las Vegas Sands, for example, saw its gaming business lag behind other sectors of the company like retail, and while Macau might be an overseas beacon, the company's Marina Bay Sands resort in Singapore actually saw a decrease in gaming volume instead.
This means that though casino stocks may be an attractive bet as of late, only time will tell whether June's numbers will hold.
Shares of Akamai Technologies plunged 13 percent Wednesday after giving current-quarter guidance well below analyst estimates.
The Cambridge, Massachussetts-based company said it expects adjusted third-quarter earnings of 59 cents to 62 cents a share on revenues of $566 million to $578 million. Analysts had expected Akamai to forecast earnings of 66 cents a share on $590.9 million, according to a Thomson Reuters consensus estimate.
In a Tuesday conference call with analysts and investors, CFO James Benson said that the company is "anticipating media traffic and revenue volumes from one of our large Internet platform customers to decline further in the third quarter," which would lead to "a further sequential decline in our Media business in the third quarter."
"Speak softly and carry a big stick."
According to Peter Schiff, this timeless creed of U.S. president Teddy Roosevelt is the exact antithesis of how Janet Yellen is behaving when it comes to interest rates.
"When it comes to rate hikes, the Fed has no stick. All they can do is speak loudly," explained the CEO of Euro Pacific Capital on Tuesday on CNBC's "Futures Now" when discussing the Fed's strategy in 2016. "The Fed has been bluffing. They're finished tightening."
Furthermore, Schiff believes that the Fed already has the wheels in motion to enact another round of quantitative easing, but wants to represent the possibility of another rate hike to the market. Schiff maintained that if the Fed chooses to raise rates, the whole U.S. economy could implode.
"Instead, they keep positioning that they're about to raise rates, but then they keep coming up with one excuse after another," claimed Schiff, who stuck to the bearish view that the U.S. economy is on the doorstep of another recession.
"I think what they're going to do to ease monetary policy going forward is to adjust their rhetoric," explained Schiff, who noted that the Fed lacks mobility, with only a quarter of a point to maneuver within if it chooses to lower rates. "They'll start talking about not raising rates soon, then they may admit that they no longer have a bias to tightening, then they can say they have a bias to easing."
Schiff was also quick to dismiss Fed policy as the key driver behind this year's rally. Rather, he believes the market's ability to absorb Brexit aftershocks is what has helped stocks climb to record levels in 2016.
"When Brexit happened, central banks starting talking about more stimulus," noted Schiff. "I think it was Brexit that took the Fed out of the game. That's what caused the rally."
Since Britain's vote to the leave the EU, the Dow and S&P  rallied 6 and 7 percent from the lows, respectively. With speculation that rates would be lowered around the world, Schiff believes the rally is "phony" and is based on the belief that there will be cheap money readily available for investors.
Schiff added that flawed central bank policies around the world have led to a "bond bubble" and warned investors about the draw of high-yielding treasuries.
"I don't own any bonds," he explained when pressed by "Futures Now" trader Scott Nations on why his bond fund is underperforming the market. "It's a bond fund that has no bonds, because I don't want to participate in a bond bubble. When the bond bubble bursts, my bond fund is going to be number one. All I have is very short-term debt in foreign currencies."
When confronted further by Nations about his call of no interest rates in 2015, Schiff was adamant that a quarter of a point is nothing to write home about.
"If you go back to late 2014, the consensus among most of the people that came on your show was that by the end of this year, the Fed will have raised interest rates between 6 and 8 times," argued Schiff. "I said they wouldn't raise them at all. Everybody was off by a mile! Nobody got closer than me!"
Of course, the Fed raised once in 2015, which led Schiff to maintain that he was far closer to being correct versus his colleagues on Wall Street.
"I knew that the Fed couldn't raise rates! The fact that they did one trivial quarter-point rate hike, and then back-tracked and took [other hikes] off the table proves that I was right," said Schiff. "They raised interest rates, the markets got crushed and the only reason the markets rallied back was because they stopped raising rates!"
The Fed will announce its July rate decision today with additional announcements scheduled for September, November and December. Schiff concluded that the Fed's next move will be a cut, not an increase in rates.
Laszlo Birinyi, president of Birinyi Associates and a Wall Street research legend, explained how to spot the end of the bull market in an interview with CNBC's Mike Santoli.
The termination of the bull market comes: "when you start to see the anecdotal stories ... when you start to see people rationalizing the moves," Birinyi said in the exchange. "You can't necessarily quantify it."
Watch the in-depth interview where Birinyi explained his current market strategy. PRO members can access that full interview here 
.
Raymond James on Wednesday raised its rating on Apple to outperform from market perform, saying investors will stop expecting the high-growth days of old and see the stock for what it is: a steady earnings-growth and dividend story.
"[The] long, slow re-rating as [a] consumer staple has begun. ... We are more confident that AAPL revenues and EPS have bottomed barring a serious recession, and thus we believe the P/E multiple will expand," Raymond James analyst Tavis McCourt wrote in a note to clients Wednesday. "We expect revenue growth to return in March and EPS growth in June, and for the business to be far more of a stable growth business thereafter than it has been over the last several years."
Kadmon Holdings  shares opened at $11.55 in their Wednesday debut, below the initial public offering price of $12 per share.
Sam Waksal's biotech company offered 6.25 million shares of common stock. Kadmon granted the underwriters a 30-day option to purchase up to an additional 937,500 shares of common stock at the IPO price.
Kadmon began trading on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol "KDMN."
Shares of technology companies Apple and Twitter were on the move Wednesday, as Apple soared 8 percent at the open and Twitter sank 12 percent after both companies reported quarterly earnings.
Apple shares ended the day up more than 6 percent, while Twitter shares fell further and ended the day down more than 14 percent.
Apple posted earnings and revenue that topped analysts' expectations on Tuesday, as a bet on the iPhone SE paid off. Meanwhile, Twitter reported mixed results and disappointing sales guidance, although its user base grew more than anticipated.
Apple reported earnings of $1.42 per share on revenues of $42.4 billion, above the $1.38 per share on sales of $42.09 billion expected by a Thomson Reuters consensus estimate. The figure was down against the comparable year-ago number of $1.85 per share on $49.61 billion in revenue.
The company shipped 40.4 million iPhones in the third fiscal quarter, above the 40.02 million expected by StreetAccount estimates.
"At its launch, we said the addition of the iPhone SE to the iPhone lineup placed us in a better position to meet the needs of customers who love a 4-inch phone, and to attract even more customers to our ecosystem," CEO Tim Cook said in a conference call with investors. "In both cases, that strategy is working."
Investors should buy Apple shares when they fall below the $100 mark this year in order to participate in a big rally coming in the stock in 2017, a Cowen analyst says.
Apple's stock traded above $100 after the company reported better-than-feared iPhone sales Tuesday. That level has been heavy resistance for the shares in 2016 and may continue to be if sales of the new iPhone 7, likely out in September, fall short of expectations, according to Cowen.
Automatically calling for the breakup of big banks is a bad idea, banking expert Rodgin Cohen said Tuesday.
Both the Democrats and Republicans have made revisiting Glass-Steagall, which was designed to prevent big bank "supermarkets," part of their platforms. The Depression-era legislation was partially repealed in 1999.
"You would be chartering a very different course. You would be chartering a course where you are, for artificial reasons, eliminating the institutions which help fuel the American economy," Cohen, senior chairman at Sullivan & Cromwell, said in an interview with CNBC's "Closing Bell."
Cohen has done many major bank deals and supported the repeal of Glass-Steagall at the time.
If there is a call for busting up the banks, "you need to have a reason for it and a plan if you do," he added.
At the Democratic National Convention on Monday night, both Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren and Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders called for the breaking up of major financial institutions on Wall Street.
The Democratic platform calls for an "updated and modernized version of Glass-Steagall," while the Republican platform calls for the reinstatement of the 1933 law.
Some have blamed the law's partial repeal for the financial crisis. However, Cohen said that had nothing to do with it.
"There is not a single major failure that occurred because of the limited repeal of Glass-Steagall," he said. "To attribute the financial crisis to this limited amendment of Glass-Steagall, there's just not a correlation."
— CNBC's Patti Domm contributed to this report.
Check out which companies are making headlines before the bell:
Boeing — Boeing lost 44 cents per share for the second quarter, much smaller than the 92 cent a share loss analysts were expecting. The loss was due to previously announced charges stemming from the 787, KC-46 tanker, and other programs. Revenue beat estimates, and while Boeing cut its full-year forecast to account for those charges, its forecast is above Street estimates.
Coca-Cola — Coke beat estimates by two cents a share, with quarterly profit of 60 cents per share. Revenue missed estimates. The beverage maker said international headwinds were more severe than anticipated, and that the macroeconomic environment worsened in the quarter. However, the company did see a three percent rise in organic revenue, thanks to better pricing.
Comcast — The NBCUniversal and CNBC parent earned 83 cents per share for the second quarter, two cents a share above estimates. Revenue also same in above forecasts. Comcast registered a three percent increase in revenue per cable customer over a year ago, and also saw good results for its internet and video businesses.
Anthem — The health insurer earned an adjusted $3.33 per share for the second quarter, ten cents a share above estimates. Revenue exceeded forecasts, as well. The company also said it remains committed to completing its planned acquisition of Cigna despite a Justice Department lawsuit aimed at blocking the deal.
Waste Management — The waste disposal company earned an adjusted 74 cents per share for the second quarter, three cents a share above estimates. Revenue also beat forecasts, with the company benefiting from better pricing and volumes.
Garmin — The maker of GPS devices earned 87 cents per share for the second quarter, 20 cents a share above estimates,. Revenue was far above forecasts, as well. Garmin also raised its full-year forecast, on improved sales in categories such as fitness and outdoor products.
Apple — Apple's stock jumped after quarterly profit of $1.42 a share beat estimates by four cents a share. Revenue also beat forecasts. Additionally, Apple gave strong current-quarter revenue guidance, and reported iPhone and iPad shipments that were higher than analysts had been estimating.
Twitter — Twitter reported adjusted quarterly profit of 13 cents per share, beating estimates by three cents a share. Revenue was below forecasts, however, and the company also gave lower-than-expected current-quarter revenue guidance. Revenue growth during the recently completed quarter was the slowest since Twitter went public in 2013.
Hilton — The hotel company missed estimates by a penny a share, with adjusted second quarter profit of 25 cents per share. Revenue was also slightly below forecasts. Hilton also gave a full-year forecast that came in below estimates.
Linear Technology  — Linear agreed to be bought by rival semiconductor maker Analog Devices in a cash and stock deal worth $14.8 billion. The transaction values Linear at $60 per share, representing a 24 percent premium.
Panera Bread — Panera beat estimates by four cents a share, with adjusted quarterly profit of $1.78 per share. The restaurant chain's revenue also beat forecasts. Comparable-store sales at company-owned locations were up a slightly-better-than-expected 4.2 percent compared to a year earlier.
Buffalo Wild Wings — Buffalo Wild Wings reported quarterly profit of $1.27 per share, two cents a share above estimates. The chicken wings restaurant chain saw revenue come in below Street projections as same-store sales fell from a year earlier.
Anadarko Petroleum — Anadarko lost 60 cents per share for its latest quarter, a loss that was 20 cents a share smaller than expected. The oil and gas producer's revenue was slightly above estimates. Cost cutting helped Anadarko avoid a bigger loss.
U.S. Steel — The company reported a loss of 31 cents per share for its latest quarter, smaller than the 49 cent a share consensus estimate. The steel maker's revenue fell below estimates, however. The company said it is seeing an improving pricing environment and that its European operations saw its best results in nearly eight years.
Match Group — Match earned an adjusted 17 cents per share, one cent a share higher than forecasts. The dating services operator also saw revenue come in above estimates thanks to an agreement in paid subscribers for Tinder, Match.com, and OKCupid.
Deutsche Bank — The bank said it may need more cost cuts to turn its operations around, following a sharp decline in second quarter revenue.
Strategist Tom Lee is known for perennially serving as one of the biggest bulls on Wall Street, but when asked about the month ahead, he's striking a markedly cautious tone.
"August scares us," the co-founder of Fundstrat Global Advisors said Monday on CNBC's "Trading Nation." He pointed to two troubling stats in particular.
Lee observes that going back to 2009, the S&P 500 has fallen an average of 6 percent during the month of August — a stat that jibes well with the "sell in May and go away" line of thinking.
Further, the odds of a slip could be even greater this year, given that "the bond market has become a lot more volatile than equities, and whenever this happens, 68 percent of the time, the stock market falls in the following month."
This adds up to a "pretty scary" outlook for next month, Lee said. However, after an August slip, Lee expects a fall rip.
Or, as the strategist memorably put it in a recent note to clients: "sell the beach, buy the teach."
More specifically, Lee says that once the S&P falls to 2,100, "we think you should buy it," in anticipation of a substantial rally to Lee's 2,325 year-end price target. It closed Monday at 2,168.48.
Indeed, the long-term minded "shouldn't do anything, because a 2 to 3 percent sell-off isn't enough to warrant a big shift in a portfolio. But 2 to 3 percent for an active manager is relative performance."
The hot conversation on Wall Street Tuesday was whether oil will bounce back rapidly in a V-shaped recovery, or more slowly in a U-shape. Jim Cramer determined he's with the U-shape crowd.
"I think the proponents predicting what will happen with oil actually have gravitas for once. That said, I'm going with the U," the "Mad Money" host said.
The prevailing perspective was reiterated by Morgan Stanley in its research note entitled "The Forgotten Barrels." It did a deep dive on the future of the supply side of the oil patch in various countries around the world, and indicated that "oil markets appear weak until mid-2017."
Another perspective came from David Demshur, the CEO of Core Laboratories, who appeared on "Mad Money" last week and said there would be a V-shaped recovery. He believes there will be a strong comeback with crude moving almost 50 percent higher by the end of the year.
Cramer interpreted Demshur's perspective as meaning that there are oil well depletions that are being ignored, and the supply side is not nearly as large as many think.
JPMorgan told clients to buy health-care stocks and sell staples shares because income investors will rotate into more reasonably valued parts of the market that still have sturdy dividend and earnings growth.
"Similar to Low Vol (relative to Value), staples appears to be in a bubble (relative to Healthcare) after outperforming by 20 percent in the past year and it trades at a record valuation spread of more than 5x turns on PE NTM," JPMorgan U.S. equity strategist Dubravko Lakos-Bujas wrote in a note Tuesday. "We believe staples has become crowded during this cycle after a rotation triggered by the Fed turning more dovish, zero rates abroad, and stabilizing USD."
He upgraded the health-care sector to overweight and downgraded the staples category to underweight on "a convergence sector trade."
Staples has a forward P/E valuation of 22 times versus the health-care sector at 16.5 times, according to the strategist.
Lakos-Bujas doesn't believe the valuations are "justified by the fundamentals" as staples historically trade at a discount to health care on lower growth prospects and profit margins. Health-care stocks are currently estimated to increase sales in the coming year 6.4 percent versus staples at 3.8 percent, according to Lakos-Bujas.
"Drug pricing headlines and political rhetoric have been drivers of health-care sector underperformance over the last year. ... We see limited read-through to business fundamentals as successful reform would require considerable alignment in Washington. We recommend using any headline related pullbacks to add Healthcare exposure," the report said.
Here are seven of the top health-care picks from JPMorgan.
As the market waits for Apple to report earnings after the bell Tuesday, one trader has devised a method to cash in.
Todd Gordon of TradingAnalysis.com starts by pointing out that the tech giant is expected to rise or fall just $3.50 on earnings. Yet Apple moved more than the options market expected in the past two earnings events. For instance, when its April earnings report missed expectations, the stock fell more than 6 percent.
With such a mild move expected this time around, Gordon said Tuesday on CNBC's Trading Nation that "expectations are a little too low."
So if Apple is set to move more than expected, which direction will earnings take it?
Based on the charts, Gordon sees the stock going higher. Apple has been badly lagging its large-cap tech brethren of late, and he sees that trend tuning around.
To play for the expected move, Gordon recommends an out-of-the-money option call spread as a quick trade on Apple.
Specifically, he recommends buying the 101-strike weekly calls expiring on Friday, and selling the 102-strike calls. This trade will cost a total of 24 cents per share, and return a profit of 76 cents, or 317 percent, if Apple closes the week at $102 or above.
"It's a little bit of a gamble," Gordon granted, "but we have an attractive reward-to-risk ratio."
Shares of Mobileye fell more than 10 percent Tuesday after the software company announced it would not renew a contract with Tesla Motors when it expires.
"Mobileye's work with Tesla will not extend beyond the EyeQ3," executives said on the company's earnings call.
Mobileye will still work on upgrades that affect cars' ability to respond to crash avoidance, and optimize auto-steering without any hardware updates.
The Israeli company currently makes image analysis for Tesla's Autopilot technology that helps drivers steer and stay in lanes.
Tesla CEO Elon Musk said the announcement was expected and will not have a material effect on Tesla's autonomous vehicle plans.
"MobilEye's ability to evolve its technology is unfortunately negatively affected by having to support hundreds of models from legacy auto companies, resulting in a very high engineering drag coefficient," Musk said in a statement Tuesday. "Tesla is laser-focused on achieving full self-driving capability on one integrated platform with an order of magnitude greater safety than the average manually driven car."
Mobileye's announcement comes two months after a fatal accident in Florida fueled debates about the safety of self-driving vehicles. Federal safety officials are investigating the crash between a Tesla car with an Autopilot system and a tractor trailer.
Shares of Mobileye traded near $45 Tuesday, off of their 52-week high of $46.80. The stock is up more than 8 percent year to date but has fallen roughly 24 percent year over year.
The stock jumped more than 5 percent in premarket trading Tuesday after Mobileye posted better-than-expected second-quarter earnings and revenue. The company earned 17 cents per share, beating consensus estimates of 15 cents, according to Thomson Reuters. Revenue came in at $83.5 million, up from $52.8 million a year earlier. Analysts polled by Reuters had expected $77 million.
Shares of United Technologies rose more than 2 percent Tuesday after the company reported quarterly earnings that beat analysts' estimates.
The Connecticut-based company posted adjusted earnings per share of $1.82, beating the $1.68 that analysts expected, according to Thomson Reuters. Revenue rose 1 percent to $14.87 billion, beating estimates of $14.7 billion.
"We continue to focus on our key priorities," CEO Gregory Hayes said in a statement. "This includes achieving critical aerospace program milestones and successfully meeting the production ramp to support our large and growing order book. We now have orders for 8,200 Geared Turbofan engines, including announced and unannounced firm and option engines."
The maker of aircraft parts, elevators, heating and ventilation systems, and other equipment raised the low end of its 2016 outlook by 15 cents from $6.45 to $6.60 per share. Sales will be $57 billion to $58 billion, compared with an earlier projection of $56 billion to $58 billion.
Net income in the quarter was $1.4 billion, down 3 percent versus the prior year. Sales of $14.9 billion were up 1 percent, with 1 point of organic and 1 point of net acquisition growth offset by 1 point of unfavorable foreign exchange, the company said.
Hayes told CNBC's "Squawk on the Street" Tuesday the company has seen success through cost reduction.
"We talk about always doing more with less," he said. "We announced last December we were going to do a billion and a half dollars of additional cost reduction that'll generate about $900 million in annual savings. I think that you saw some of the benefits of that in the second-quarter results."
United's stock has risen this year, rising more than 11 percent.
UTX Chart 2016
A recent spate of positive data has heightened hopes that the U.S. economy is vanquishing its many demons.
Whether it was the blockbuster June payrolls number, the strong retail growth earlier this month, or something more recent such as Tuesday's reported jump in new home sales, indicators have been on balance considerably better than expectations.
That's got Wall Street excited that after a long period of mediocrity, the economy finally may have reached an inflection point. However, the optimism may not be on particularly solid ground, with the economy likely still trudging along despite some recent positive surprises.
The Street closely follows a barometer called the Citi U.S. Economic Surprise Index. The measure is different from others in that it depends less on what the actual data readings are and more on how they compare with expectations.
A reading above zero means that the data on balance are coming in above expectations, while a negative reading indicates an economy that is underperforming. Lately, indicators have been crushing estimates, after the index spent a year and a half in negative territory. Paul Hickey at Bespoke Investment Group noted in a tweet Tuesday that the index is in clear "breakout" mode as judged by its behavior over the past 12 months:

Periods when the index rises into positive territory often are positive for stocks. Over the past decade, the S&P 500 was higher 79 percent of the time with a median gain of 5.2 percent six months after periods when the surprise index rose above zero, according to Burt White, chief investment officer at LPL Financial.
"We have also observed better performance from the more economically sensitive sectors in these scenarios. Both good signs," White said in a note to clients.
A few words of caution, though, are warranted before getting too excited about this "surprise."
Most notably, the breakout that Hickey observed came in early July and coincided with the realization that the Brexit vote would not, in fact, be the end of the world. A look at the index from the beginning of July tells the story:
Shares of Whole Foods dipped Tuesday after Goldman Sachs downgraded the stock to "sell" from "neutral," citing competition from all parts of the grocery industry and online.
"Whole Foods is experiencing a competitive barrage, losing share in its core natural and organic business to a variety of players," Goldman analysts said in a note to clients. "Wellness has gone mass, and it is not coming back, never again to be relegated to niche specialty retailers serving price-insensitive, early adopters."
Shares of the grocery retailer have fallen more than 15 percent year to date, trading down more than 1 percent at $34.18 on Tuesday. Goldman set a $31 price target for WFM, which would be a 10 percent fall from Monday's close.
Goldman is guarded on natural and organic incumbents like Whole Foods, which could be eclipsed by lower-priced, more convenient challengers. Some of these smaller players taking market share include Trader Joe's and The Fresh Market. Costco and Kroger could be the biggest threats to Whole Foods because of a focus on price and quality, the note said.
"The group has raised the competitive bar in natural and organic: a differentiated product offering is no longer sufficient," the Goldman note said.
Jim Cramer said McDonald's All Day Breakfast program has not run its course and that the company is in need of new promotions to boost sales.
Cramer's comments followed the company's second-quarter earnings report. McDonald's stock fell more than 4 percent on Tuesday after the fast-food chain missed same-store growth estimates.
McDonald's introduced all-day breakfast at its U.S. restaurants in October to attract more diners in the face of growing competition from rivals. The move has helped the fast food giant see an uptick in sales, but the growth may not be strong enough for some investors.
Cramer said that he thinks McDonald's CEO Steve Easterbrook has done a good job with the company and will bring new things to it.
"I know he's going to bring technology, but he hasn't brought it yet," Cramer said Tuesday on CNBC's "Squawk on the Street."
Cramer also noted that the company needs new promotions.
McDonald's has joined a partnership with "Pokemon Go" in Japan. Cramer said the move has put McDonald's "back to where it was."
— CNBC's Sarah Whitten contributed to this report.
The recent decline in crude oil maybe a serious problem for the earnings "narrative" for the stock market in the second half of the year. Oil, which has traded between $45 and $50 for the past two months, is now trading in the $42 range.
History suggests that if crude oil keeps falling, it's likely to take the whole stock market down with it, but there are a few places to hide out if the commodity tumbles through the key $40 per barrel level.
Crude fell to its lowest level in three months this week on concerns of global oversupply and a stronger U.S. dollar.
Using Kensho, a tool designed to quantify historical market events, we looked for which major ETFs gained when oil plunged 7 percent in one month's time. (A move of that magnitude right now would take prices below $40.)
Oil hit another three-month low Tuesday morning, but one technician says the commodity is about to hit highs unseen for two years.
Craig Johnson, senior technical market strategist at Piper Jaffray, sees crude prices going as high as $75 per barrel in about a year based on a long-term chart of oil. Johnson's chart shows an inverse head and shoulders has formed, a pattern that is generally thought to predict an uptrend. This, coupled with crude breaking above a diagonal neckline, makes Johnson bullish on oil.
"I think you got $2 to $3 on the downside back to about $40," he said Monday on CNBC's "Power Lunch." "But the last time I saw a setup like this was the bottom of the market at about 2008, 2009 on the S&P 500. That was a nine-month setup, and standing that measured objective up led to a very nice return in the markets."
"Looking at this price objective [that's] standing it up, you could be between $70 to $75 in oil in about 12 months, based upon the top-line break in that neckline here," Johnson said.

But not everyone sees good times ahead for oil. A note from Morgan Stanley analysts before the Tuesday morning open stated that crude could drop down to about $35, a level that oil last hit in April.
While Erin Gibbs, equity chief investment officer at S&P Global, isn't as bearish on oil, she does believe the energy sector in general may not be headed anywhere even in the long term.
"Overall, I think the sector is very much a hold," she said. "We're seeing really high valuations [and] the energy sector is trading at about 53 times forward earnings."
"It looks like investors are really looking at not just what's going to happen in the next 12 months, but they're expecting oil to stay in these $40 to $50 ranges in the next 18 months," Gibbs added.
Oil dropped down to $42 a barrel Tuesday morning amid ongoing oversupply concerns.
FBR on Tuesday lowered its rating on both Disney and Time Warner to market perform from outperform, saying the companies will find it difficult to expand earnings in 2017 in their box-office and cable businesses.
"At this point, we see the [Disney] studio at peak earnings this year, a level that can be maintained going forward but probably not growing much from here," analyst Barton Crockett wrote in a note to clients. "Cable network earnings will be pressured in FY 2017 by the step-up in NBA costs. ... To us, this nets very little EPS growth for Disney in FY 2017, an environment in which we believe the stock will struggle to deliver much upside despite the quality of the company's content and theme park portfolio."
Crockett had similar concerns about Time Warner, "Our downgrade mainly reflects that TWX is within 3 percent of our price target, although we are skeptical that the recent election-driven ratings strength at CNN can persist into next year."
The restaurant industry could be headed for a rough patch.
Two Wall Street analysts have lowered estimates industrywide, among the reasons they cited were wage inflation, slowing same-store sales and even a possible recession.
In a research note Tuesday, Jefferies analyst Andy Barish called the top of the U.S. restaurant cycle.
"We have finished an extensive study on restaurant supply and the concurrent impact on [same-store sales] and labor," Barish wrote. "We believe the industry has at least 18 months of challenges ahead in terms of softer [same-store sales] and higher labor costs because of capacity growth and labor tightness, a year after the stock peak in summer '15."
Barish, who lowered 2017 earnings-per-share estimates by an average of 3 percent, noted that the industry has become oversaturated with restaurant options, leading to slower foot traffic at major chains.
"In addition, convenience stores, grocery, meal delivery and other channels continue to compete more intensely for 'share of stomach,'" Barish wrote.
Stifel analyst Paul Westra also was bearish on restaurant stocks, forecasting that the U.S. economy will fall into a recession within the next three to nine months — a precursor to historically poor performances for the sector.
"In the year preceding the last three U.S. recessions, on average, restaurant stocks have declined 23 percent," he wrote in a research note Tuesday.
During the second half of the year, Westra expects a 20 percent average decline for restaurant stocks, he said.
Shares of Whole Foods fell Tuesday after Goldman Sachs downgraded the stock to sell from neutral,   citing competition from all parts of the grocery industry and online.
"Whole Foods is experiencing a competitive barrage, losing share in its core natural and organic business to a variety of players," Goldman analysts said in a note to clients. "Wellness has gone mass, and it is not coming back, never again to be relegated to niche specialty retailers serving price-insensitive, early adopters."
Here's where the firm thinks Whole Foods' stock is headed and what to buy instead.
In the face of sluggish global growth and uncertainty over the presidential election, the retail industry's trade organization sees signs that the positive trends influencing consumer spending are outmuscling the negative.
As such, the National Retail Federation on Tuesday raised its full-year sales forecast to 3.4 percent growth, up slightly from its previous expectation for a 3.1 percent lift. It cited improvements in the housing market, job growth and higher wages as three factors that should boost consumer sentiment through the end of the year.
A larger-than-expected lift in online sales is likewise expected to drive additional growth, with the NRF now calling for a 7 to 10 percent increase in digital revenue. That compares with its prior forecast for a 6 to 9 percent lift.
"Economic indicators are showing positive trends for retail," NRF President and CEO Matthew Shay said in a news release. "Challenges remain, with some greater than others depending on the retail category, but consumer confidence remains high."
Indeed, as sales at online retailers continue to thrive — revenue at nonstore retailers rose 14.2 in June — the department store channel has remained challenged. Department store sales contracted 3.7 percent last month compared with the prior year.
In addition to uncertainties about the global economy and the domestic political landscape, a stronger U.S. dollar also threatens to hold back retail sales, NRF said.
Retailers have likewise been grappling with a shift in consumer spending, as Americans favor dining out and attending boutique fitness classes over spending on traditional goods. Adding to the industry's challenges are a proliferation of discounts, which make it tougher for retailers to record year-over-year sales increases.
Yet according to the NRF's data, which excludes sales of automobiles, gasoline stations and restaurants, retail sales rose roughly 4 percent during the first six months of 2016. Easy comparisons in the second half, which follow last year's unseasonably warm winter, should give retailers a push through the end of 2016, the organization said.
"There are many factors that could prove to be hurdles but our overall outlook is optimistic," said Jack Kleinhenz, NRF's chief economist.
The group's raised outlook comes less than a week after it released its back-to-school survey results, which said the average household with children in kindergarten through high school plans to spend $673.57 this year. That would represent a 7 percent lift compared with 2015.
While the NRF said the survey is yet another indication that shoppers are feeling more confident, because many back-to-school purchases are needs based, they don't directly correlate with overall spending trends.
The organization's rosier full-year sales prediction matches last year's results, when retail sales as calculated by the NRF rose 3.4 percent. It had originally called for growth of 4.1 percent that year, but later revised its forecast down to a 3.5 percent increase.
Wall Street research legend Laszlo Birinyi believes this seven-year bull market has much further to run and could even rival the multidecade bullish period that began back in 1982.
"The conventional wisdom is consistently wrong," said the unabashed bull in an exclusive, in-depth sit-down for CNBC PRO with Mike Santoli. The president of  Birinyi Associates went through historical examples of when investors and the media consistently got the timing of bull and bear markets wrong, becoming too pessimistic at the wrong times.
With other Wall Street strategists much more dour than him and the media bemoaning Brexit and other concerns, Birinyi thinks this is happening once again and the run has much further to go.
In the wide-ranging conversation, Birinyi also touches on:
PRO subscribers can also read the entire transcript of the exclusive interview below.
Nintendo's share price might have registered its biggest daily decline since October 1990 on Monday, but the fever surrounding "Pokemon Go" suggests a bright future for the Japanese gaming giant.
Nintendo released a statement last week saying that "Pokemon Go" will have a "limited" impact on income and that it won't modify its financial forecasts. It clarified that it in fact does not make the game. It owns 32 percent of the "voting power of The Pokemon Company ", which holds the ownership rights to the fictional monsters. And the game is distributed and made by Niantic, which is a separate company.
For some reason, some investors just didn't quite realize, even though it has been flagged up for months.
Jim Cramer says everyone got the news of Verizon's $4.8 billion purchase of Yahoo all wrong.
While many media outlets focused on the story of Yahoo being a once-great company that was crushed by competition and its CEO Marissa Mayer, Cramer saw a different story emerge from the deal.
"I think this need for a competitive edge is the real story, not whether Marissa Mayer stays or goes — I think she goes — or whether she has done a good job or a bad job managing Yahoo," the "Mad Money" host said.
The main story is really about what Verizon had to do to build a competitive franchise, as it faced an oncoming buzz saw from AT&T, T-Mobile and as of Monday, even Sprint.
When Cramer spoke with Verizon CEO Lowell McAdam back in February, McAdam confirmed Verizon's interest in purchasing Yahoo and marrying the assets under the leadership of AOL's Tim Armstrong.
McAdam shared his game plan, and then executed on it because he had to. Verizon needs Yahoo more than any other company in the U.S. right now, Cramer said.
Check out which companies are making headlines before the bell:
DuPont — DuPont earned an adjusted $1.24 per share for the second quarter, 14 cents a share above estimates. Revenue was also above forecasts and the chemical maker also raised its full-year forecast. DuPont had stronger sales in agriculture and other areas, as well as expanded profit margins.
3M — 3M earned $2.08 per share for the second quarter, beating estimates by one cent a share. Revenue came in shy of Street forecasts, and the company lowered its sales growth guidance for 2016.
Caterpillar — The heavy equipment maker beat estimates by 13 cents a share, with quarterly profit of $1.09 per share. Revenue beat forecasts, as well. However, it continues to feel the impact of a decline in the mining industry.
Verizon — The telecommunications giant beat estimates by two cents a share, with adjusted quarterly profit of 94 cents per share. Revenue missed forecasts. Verizon said its results were hurt by a seven-week workers strike.
United Technologies — The industrial conglomerate reported adjusted quarterly profit of $1.82 per share, 14 cents a share above estimates. Revenue also beat forecasts and United Technologies raised its full-year forecast, as well.
Under Armour — The athletic apparel maker matched estimates with profit of one cent per share, and revenue was essentially in line, as well. Under Armour's bottom line showed a 28 percent improvement from a year earlier on greater demand for apparel and basketball shoes.
Starbucks — The coffee chain's stock was added to the "Americas Conviction List" at Goldman Sachs, which said it sees Starbucks comparable-store sales re-accelerating into the fiscal fourth quarter.
Eli Lilly — The drugmaker's earnings matched estimates at 86 cents per share, with revenue above forecasts. Lilly's results were helped by demand for cancer and diabetes treatments.
Gilead Sciences — The drugmaker reported adjusted quarterly profit of $3.08 per share for its latest quarter, beating estimates by six cents a share. Revenue was essentially in line, but investors may focus on Gilead's lower full-year sales outlook. The company pointed to slower-than-expected sales of its hepatitis C drugs.
Anheuser-Busch InBev — The company raised its offer for rival beer brewer SABMiller, in a bid to relieve concerns related to the falling value of the British pound. The offer is now 2.2 percent higher and also increases the cash portion of the deal.
Las Vegas Sands — Las Vegas Sands missed estimates by four cents a share, with adjusted quarterly profit of 52 cents per share. The casino operator's revenue also missed forecasts. Las Vegas Sands was hurt by continuing declines in its Macau operations.
Texas Instruments — Texas Instruments came in four cents a share ahead of Street forecasts, with quarterly profit of 76 cents per share. The chipmaker's revenue also exceeded estimates. The company saw particular strength in its automotive and communications chip segments, among others.
Celgene — Celgene said its Revlimid drug did not extend survival rates in a trial involving a type of blood cancer, and that the drugmaker would not seek approval for the drug for that use.
Goldman Sachs — Goldman will be the subject of an enforcement action by the Federal Reserve, according to The New York Times. The case relates to a leak of confidential information, and will reportedly include a penalty of less than $50 million.
BP — BP reported lower-than-expected profit for the second quarter due to weaker oil prices and lower profit margins for refining, prompting the oil giant to cut its planned 2016 capital spending budget.
Boeing — Boeing was accused by major supplier Rockwell Collins of being delinquent in its payments, saying the jet maker is behind on tens of millions of dollars in bills due at the end of last month. Boeing issued a statement saying it was in the process of adjusting payment terms with suppliers to align with current industry norms.
Noodles & Company, Red Robin Gourmet Burgers — Jefferies downgraded a number of restaurant chain stocks to "hold" from "buy," including Noodles and Red Robin Gourmet Burgers. Jefferies cites too much capacity and a tight labor market.
Stocks opened lower on Monday morning, with earnings season in full swing and an upcoming Federal Reserve meeting on Wednesday, leading investors to wonder whether earnings or rates will determine the market's next move.
Nick Colas, chief market strategist at Convergex, believes that while both earnings and interest rates play a part in moving the market, current trends show that this earnings season will be the key factor in seeing where stocks will head.
"The nature of this breakout in the S&P tells me that it's as much or more about earnings," he said Friday on CNBC's "Trading Nation." "We've had five straight down quarters of earnings, and Q3 is supposed to be the breakout quarter back to the upside with further growth in Q4 and into next year."
"So it all lines up to tell me that earnings growth is actually the more important factor and we need to see that come through in Q3," Colas added.
Colas' prediction comes as Q2 earnings enter their biggest week yet, with many big names set to report. This includes tech giant Apple, who missed on earnings and revenues last quarter, sending the stock on an 8 percent plunge from which the company had to recover.
However, Colas also believes that this earnings season is off to a good start, which could bode well for markets.
So far, the vast majority of the sectors on the S&P 500 have either met or beaten their predicted sector earnings estimate this quarter. Even struggling sectors like the financials have held up, as a slew of big-name banks beat earnings to give a bit of breathing room in an otherwise dour year for the sector.
But as important as earnings could be in driving the market, iiTrader chief market strategist Bill Baruch is looking at Japan this week to determine what could happen to stocks in the U.S.
"If the Bank of Japan steps up and [implements] their new unprecedented stimulus measures, then yields will continue to move lower, and that will keep stocks up," he said. "So we're really looking at that as being a key component that's going to be there with earnings."
In addition to the Bank of Japan, Baruch believes that Tuesday's Federal Reserve meeting could also move the market. The Fed has so far stopped short of its resolve to raise interest rates this year, and many investors don't believe that a rate hike will be coming soon.
With U.S. tariffs now in place to prevent China from dumping steel at lower prices in the U.S., steel manufacturer Nucor Corporation is finally on solid ground again.
Jim Cramer spoke with Nucor's chairman and CEO John Ferriola, who confirmed that overcapacity still remains a major challenge for the industry.
"But I'll tell you, things are looking better in terms of our ability to work with our allies and with the United States government to finally get something done on overcapacity," Ferriola said.
Jim Cramer says everyone got the news of Verizon's $4.8 billion purchase of Yahoo all wrong.
While many media outlets focused on the story of Yahoo being a once-great company that was crushed by competition and its CEO Marissa Mayer, Cramer saw a different story emerge from the deal.
"I think this need for a competitive edge is the real story, not whether Marissa Mayer stays or goes — I think she goes — or whether she has done a good job or a bad job managing Yahoo," the "Mad Money" host said.
The main story is really about what Verizon had to do to build a competitive franchise, as it faced an oncoming buzz saw from AT&T, T-Mobile and as of Monday, even Sprint.
"The company needs to maintain its lead over the competition by offering subscribers more than just a great wireless network," Cramer said.
Pandora Media's stock spiked nearly 6 percent on Monday after a report said it hired an advisory firm about strategic options that may include a sale.
Pandora hired Centerview Partners, a boutique advisory firm, which may be asked to run a sales process for Pandora, people familiar with the matter told Bloomberg in a Monday report. The music-streaming company has faced pressure to put itself up for sale from Corvex, a hedge fund and activist investor, Bloomberg's Alex Sherman and Lucas Shaw reported.
(The following article is a CNBC PRO free preview. Click here to subscribe).
Investors should sell Apple shares because fewer customers than expected will upgrade to the upcoming iPhone 7 and because of the tech giant's lack of success in launching new products away from smartphones, according to broker BGC, which lowered its rating to sell from hold.
"Our opinion [is] that Apple has peaked under the leadership of CEO Tim Cook," BGC's Colin Gillis wrote in a note to clients Monday.
He added: "There is risk that the upgrade rate for the next iPhone may slow even more than the upgrade rate cycle of 6s. ... The dynamics of the next iPhone cycle may underwhelm even with the installed base of approximately 1 billion active devices. We would rather be too early on this call than too late."
Gillis lowered his Apple price target to $85 from $110, representing 14 percent downside from Friday's close. In Monday trading, the company's shares fell to their low of the day, losing more than 1 percent, as news of the downgrade broke.
The analyst estimates the iPhone will decline on a year-over-year basis for the third quarter in a row and will continue to suffer from a slowing smartphone market. He cited IDC data on global smartphone shipments in the first quarter of 2016 at roughly flat year over year as evidence of the tepid industry growth.
Gillis is disappointed with Apple's current management team that had five years to build new product categories during "the maturation of the smartphone market" and only launched the lackluster Apple Watch in that time frame.
He has "unease with management's positioning of the business for new revenue streams in the future, including desirable recurring revenue," the report said.
As a result of his concerns about Apple's near-term fundamentals, Gillis lowered his fiscal 2017 earnings per share estimate to $8.24 from $9.74, which is now lower than the $8.96 Wall Street consensus.
Apple, which is expected to release the new iPhone in September, is scheduled to report quarterly results Tuesday after the bell.
Gillis puts it most bluntly in the report here: "With expectations for the June quarter low, and consensus at the midpoint of guidance, it is possible that shares rally on the June quarter results — but when we ask ourselves 'Do we see Apple gaining or losing its next $100 billion of value?' The answer is losing."
Traders are busy handicapping the always exciting earnings reports from the kings of tech — Apple, Facebook, Alphabet and Amazon — due out this week.
Using Estimize, which collects thousands of estimates from real investors, CNBC PRO looked at which of the big four have the best chance of a big earnings beat that sends the stock soaring.
There are two that could post big surprises.
European Airline Ryanair saw shares gain more than 6 percent Tuesday after the company announced increases revenues, customers and earnings for its first quarter, despite Brexit worries.
The airline reported an 11 percent spike in customers, a 2 percent revenue increase and a 12 percent jump in earnings per share.
A Ryanair release described the U.K.'s vote to exit the European Union "a surprise and a disappointment."
"We expect this result will lead to a considerable period of political and economic uncertainty in both the UK and the EU. This uncertainty will be damaging to economic growth and consumer confidence and we will respond as always with our load factor active/yield passive strategy," the company said in a press release. "Until some clarity emerges over the next two years about the UK's long term political and economic relationships with the EU, we will be unable to predict what effect it will have on our business and regulatory environment."
Ryanair expects Brexit to lead to weaker sterling, slower growth in the U.K. and E.U. economies, and pressures to lower fares. The company also noted that Brexit could affect its U.K. registered competitors if they are not permitted to fly intra EU routes.
Ryanair's shares have sunk 22 percent year to date.
Ryanair's year-to-date performance:

All eyes will be on tech this week as many mega-cap names release earnings — and traders are expecting some hefty moves from the reports.
Apple kicks it off Tuesday when it is scheduled to report after the closing bell. The options market is implying a 4 percent move for the stock in either direction. That's less than the four-quarter average shift of about 5.5 percent.
Shares of the tech giant fell more than 1 percent Monday after BGC analyst Colin Gillis downgraded the stock to sell, citing concerns over the company's iPhone and management.
"I think more important than Apple is going to be what Alphabet, Facebook and Amazon say," Carter Worth told CNBC's "Options Action" on Friday. "A big hit or miss out of those other three I think will [move the market]," added Cornerstone Macro's head of technical analysis.
Facebook is scheduled to report its earnings on Wednesday afternoon. Traders are expecting the stock to see a nearly 7 percent move higher or lower. Shares of the social media giant are trading just under its all-time high hit last week.
Alphabet and Amazon are due to report Thursday after the bell. The options market is implying a nearly 5 percent move in either direction for Alphabet. Meanwhile, Amazon could see an 8 percent move higher or lower.
Together, these four stocks make up 30 percent of the Nasdaq 100. And if all the implied moves were to come to fruition, it could represent a nearly $100 billion shift in market cap.
Options traders calculate the implied move for equities by measuring a particular stock's so-called straddle — or at the money put and call. The amount of the straddle typically captures market makers' expectations for how much a stock is going to move.
Shares of Deere and other leading farm machinery stocks are sharply lower Monday after a downbeat note from Piper Jaffray said the current agricultural downtown is likely will persist into 2017.
"We expect that the current ag downturn, which has prolonged for the last three years, will continue into next year, weighing on farmer income and resulting in further declines in farm machinery demand," said Piper Jaffray analyst Brett Wong in a research note.
Shares of Deere ended the day down $2.20 a share, or 2.75 percent, to $77.92. AGCO was down $1.29 a share, or 2.66 percent, to $47.26. U.S.-listed shares of CNH Industrial were down 20 cents, or 2.98 percent, to $6.52.
Piper downgraded shares of Deere, AGCO and CNH to an "underweight" investment rating from "neutral," saying the farm machinery maker stocks have been trading "at elevated multiples, expecting that this year will be trough demand with a recovery next year."
"We believe that overall global farm machinery demand will be down next year, which does not support current expectations for the stocks, and that estimates and valuation multiples are at risk," Wong said.
Credit Suisse analysts Monday initiated shares of Allergan at an "outperform" rating, saying the drugmaker's diversified drug pipeline is "underappreciated" by investors.
"We see it as a company with a broad and underappreciated pipeline that will help boost their already strong base business and that is trading at a compelling valuation and being led by a best-in-class management team," said analyst Vamil Divan in the report.
Last November, Allergan outlined its new "Open Science" research and development model, which is a three-part discovery, development and commercialization process for new drugs. The goal was to help build therapy area leadership and drive long-term growth, according to the company.
At that time, Allergan called out a pipeline that included more than 70 mid-to-late stage development programs. The company also said it planned to focus itself in the following areas: gastroenterology, mental health, women's health and urology, anti-infectives, medical aesthetics and dermatology, neuromodulators and eye care.
Divan said he is "bullish" about its recently launched products such as Vraylar,  Viberzi and Kybella, and he expects strong growth for Allergan's existing products such as Botox, Linzess and its medical aesthetics business.
Divan also sees significant drug opportunities such as Abicipar and Rapastinel, though "it will take some time for these to play out."
Among the risks Allergan faces is its $40 billion-plus pending deal with Teva. The sale of Allergan's generics unit has taken longer than expected to close, but Divan expects it will.
Shares of Allergan ended the day down slightly at $247.85. Allergan's stock has plummeted this year, falling more than 20 percent. Credit Suisse set a target price to $327.
AGN 2016 Chart
DISCLOSURE: Credit Suisse does and seeks to do business with companies covered in its research reports.
Kimberly-Clark dipped more than 1 percent Monday even after the company surpassed earnings estimates.
The consumer products maker reported $1.56 earnings per share, beating estimates by 8 cents.
"We delivered a good quarter of results in a challenging environment while we continue to execute our long-term Global Business Plan strategies," CEO Thomas Falk said. "Half way through the year, we are broadly on track with our plans and are confirming our bottom-line earnings guidance for 2016."
The company's shares have gained more than 18 percent in the past year.
Kimberly-Clark 12-month performance:
The market has downside risk the rest of the year due to uncertainty over the presidential election and Donald Trump's populist economic plan, according to HSBC Global Research.
"Increased economic policy uncertainty is typical during an election season, but potentially greater this time given the unconventional nature of the Trump candidacy and high levels of global policy uncertainty," HSBC's chief U.S. economist, Kevin Logan, wrote in a note to clients Sunday.
"This could depress investment and boost equity volatility. Simplified U.S. electoral scenarios all show downside to U.S.   equities by year-end."
HSBC's report comes as Five Thirty Eight's "now-cast" election model on Monday predicts Trump has 57.5 percent chance to win the presidency, compared with 42.5 percent for Hillary Clinton.
Here are the details of HSBC's four electoral outcomes.
Shares of Outerwall jumped 11 percent Monday after the company announced it would be bought for $1.6 billion by funds managed by Apollo Global Management.
Certain funds run by Apollo will buy all of Outerwall's outstanding stock for $52 a share in an all-cash tender deal. The price represents an 11 percent premium on Outerwall's closing price Friday.
The retail company, which owns kiosk-businesses like Redbox, Countstair, and ecoETM, will be privately-held after the sale. The deal is expected to close in the third quarter of 2016.
"Apollo is an ideal partner to support Outerwall's efforts to continue serving our millions of loyal customers and dedicated retail partners through our unrivaled network of kiosks and automated retail offerings," said Erik Prusch, CEO of Outerwall.
The transaction was unanimously approved by Outerwall's Board but is conditioned on a tender deal, which still requires regulatory approvals.
"Outerwall is a dynamic customer-focused business that delivers superior kiosk experiences that delight consumers and generate value for its retailer partners," said David Sambur, partner at Apollo. " We look forward to working with Outerwall's talented and dedicated team to continue the business's strong heritage of growth and innovation."
Outerwall will release its second quarter earnings after the closing bell Thursday, and will not hold a conference given the sale announcement.
Jim Cramer said he is excited for what Verizon's $4.8 billion deal to buy Yahoo means for AOL CEO Tim Armstrong.
"Yahoo was a wasting asset," Cramer said Monday on "Squawk on the Street." "It was truly something that lost its way."
Verizon will integrate Yahoo with the AOL unit. The companies are still ironing out who will be in leadership after the deal is closed.
Cramer said Armstrong has the ability to make Yahoo "a rival" to other companies and a strong competitor. "The whole web needs a portal. He can put everybody together who's not Google and not Facebook," Cramer said.
"I'm very excited about this because maybe it'll be back like the old days in '98 and '99 when Yahoo was the leader," Cramer said.
Disclosure: CNBC has a content-sharing partnership with Yahoo's finance site.
The auto-lending U.S. arm of Banco Santander, Santander Consumer USA, saw its shares plunge in early Monday trading after the company announced it would delay its second-quarter earnings report, previously expected for Wednesday, as it looks to resolve issues surrounding "discount accretion and credit loss allowance methodologies."
Santander Consumer USA stock cratered more than 10 percent in morning trading in New York, and shares are down more than 32 percent this year. The stock is changing hands at more than a 50 percent discount to its 2014 IPO price.
The bank and its auditors are evaluating "the manner which SC accretes loan discounts over the life of a loan," analysts at Jefferies wrote Monday. The analysts said they think the "slope" of the curve applied to loans, which factors in potential losses, "is what auditors are evaluating." They added that they don't "anticipate the earnings impact of any potential change will be material."
Loan discounts have ranged from 1 percent to 5 percent, with recent reports of 1.5 percent, Jefferies analysts said — which means that Santander Consumer USA loans have retained the overwhelming majority of their value.
Jefferies is maintaining a buy rating on Santander Consumer USA, with a target of $15.
A representative for Santander Consumer USA was not immediately available to comment. In a statement Monday morning, the bank said it is in discussions with current and previous accountants on its "discount accretion and credit loss allowance methodologies. The resolution of these matters may impact prior period financial statements" in addition to the timing of its second-quarter results.
Wall Street is bracing for lackluster earnings when Apple reports on Tuesday.
The good news for Apple is that low expectations are largely built in, say analysts.
The company is expected to report fiscal third-quarter earnings after Tuesday's closing bell of $1.38 per share on $42.11 billion in revenue, according to analysts surveyed by Thomson Reuters.
That revenue figure would represent a 15 percent decline from the comparable year-ago period and an even greater year-over-year decline in revenue than the company reported in the prior quarter.
Last quarter Apple missed analyst estimates — reporting a roughly 13 percent decline in revenue from the year-earlier period and marking its first quarter-over-quarter revenue decline since 2003 — and investors punished the stock. Shares tumbled in after hours trading, eviscerating more than $46 billion in market capitalization.
Shares of software company Tableau dipped Monday after analysts at Deutsche Bank downgraded the stock to "hold" from "buy."
The data visualization company ended the day down more than 2 percent, and has lost more than half of its value year over year.
"Bottom line, we are incrementally concerned about price discounting and competition and have less confidence in the upside potential to Tableau's 2016 guidance," the Deutsche Bank note said.
Tableau raised its topline outlook for the fiscal year in May. But analysts at Deutsche bank questioned whether discounts, which were up materially in the June quarter, can translate into higher win rates.
One of Wall Street's top analysts upgraded his rating on Mondelez to positive from neutral on the higher likelihood the company will merge with Hershey or another food and beverage company.
"We believe it is unlikely MDLZ will remain 'as is' over the next 12 months, with either MDLZ buying HSY or MDLZ being acquired by a larger F&B conglomerate," Susquehanna's Pablo Zuanic wrote in a note to clients Monday.
Zuanic's picks have a 10.6 percent one-year average return with a 75 percent success rate, according to analyst ranking service TipRanks, placing him in the top 4 percent of all Wall Street analysts covering any industry.
Mondelez's $23 billion bid for Hershey was rejected at the end of last month by Hershey's corporate board in part because of the influence of its controlling shareholder, the Hershey Trust. However, over the weekend The Wall Street Journal  reported that some board members of the trust may have to step down as part of a possible settlement with the attorney general's office of Pennsylvania, where Hershey has been based since its founding more than a century ago.
"Turmoil at the Hershey Trust makes such an event more realistic than in the past," noted the analyst.
Here's where Zuanic sees the stock going in the next 12 months...
The final week of July is guaranteed to be one of the busiest of the summer, as traders watch to see if a nascent earnings recovery is enough to justify record-high stock prices.
The coming week is packed with lots of potential market movers, starting with the release of earnings from about 35 percent of companies in the S&P 500.
There's also a Fed meeting Tuesday and Wednesday, the Democratic National Convention starting Monday and a much anticipated Bank of Japan meeting at the end of the week. Before the week even gets underway, the G-20 meets in China over the weekend, and next Friday, stress test results are expected for those worrisome European banks.
It's an indicator which may humble investors riding the record breaking S&P 500 Index's rally.
Jeroen Blokland, a widely followed money manager, finds stocks in the U.S. are too pricey based on a chart comparing the level of the market to the amount of sales generated by the companies within the S&P 500.
The higher the price-to-sales ratio rises, the more investors are paying per every dollar of revenue.
"What you see here is that the price-to-sales ratio has risen to the highest level in 15 years," Robeco Investment Solutions senior portfolio manager Blokland told CNBC's "Futures Now" recently.
"In order to justify these kind of valuations, you must anticipate that for now on that that sales will grow into the valuation," Blokland said. "So, sales growth has to pick up in order to justify this level. So far, we haven't seen that yet."

He acknowledges that growth has been decent in the U.S., but says that it doesn't nearly justify the recent record breaking levels.
So far this month, the S&P 500 has broken its intraday all-time high six times.
A catalyst? Foreign investors have been looking to the U.S. as a growth engine, as geopolitical issues cause uncertainty overseas.
Beyond valuations, Blokland believes the Federal Reserve could pose a problem for the rally.
The growing U.S. economy could push the Fed to raise interest rates this year and surprise a lot of investors, according to Blokland. Right now, the majority believes the Fed won't raise rates until 2017 — after the presidential election.
"If the economy keeps up, why not raise rates? They want to get off that very, very low level and normalize policy a bit," he said. "They have missed out on a couple of opportunities already."
Check out which companies are making headlines before the bell:
Yahoo — Verizon is buying Yahoo's operating businesses for $4.8 billion in cash. The deal does not include Yahoo's stakes in Alibaba  and Yahoo Japan, and also excludes certain patents and Yahoo's cash.
Carmike Cinemas — The movie theater chain will be bought by rival AMC Entertainment in an improved deal worth $33.06 per share in cash and stock — that's a more than 10 percent improvement over AMC's original bid.
Allergan — Credit Suisse initiated coverage on Allergan with an "outperform" rating, saying the drug maker has a broad and underappreciated pipeline.
Kimberly-Clark — The consumer products maker reported quarterly profit of $1.56 per share, eight cents a share above estimates. Revenue also beat Street forecasts. The company said it performed well in a challenging economic environment.
Hershey — The Hershey Trust — the chocolate maker's largest shareholder — agreed to make significant governance changes, according to Dow Jones. Those changes could potentially boost the chances that a previously rejected $23 billion takeover offer from Mondelez International will be in play once again.
Tesla, SolarCity — The two are close to striking a merger deal, according to a Reuters report. Both the automaker and the solar company are controlled by billionaire Elon Musk.
G-III Apparel — G-III struck a deal to buy Donna Karan International from LVMH, in a transaction worth $650 million.
Apple — Apple is expected to sell its one billionth iPhone this week, according to the Financial Times.
Tableau Software — Tableau was downgraded to "hold" from "buy" at Deutsche Bank, which said price discounting and competition could weigh shares of Tableau, which specializes in data analysis and sharing.
Viacom — Viacom saw its Paramount studio film "Star Trek Beyond" top the weekend box office, with North American ticket sales of $59.6 billion.
Ericsson — Chief Executive Officer Hans Vestberg resigned effective immediately, according to the telecom equipment maker. He had been under fire for the past few months, due in large part to weak financial results.
Dow Chemical, DuPont — The two companies are offering concessions to the European Union in order to win approval from their planned merger deal, according to a Bloomberg report.
Salesforce.com — Salesforce CEO Marc Benioff told LinkedIn that he might have been willing to pay much more for the company than the $26 2 billion that Microsoft paid, had he been given the chance. That's according to a Re/code report.
Danaher — The designer and manufacturer of industrial and consumer products beat estimates by three cents a share, with adjusted quarterly profit of $1.25 per share. Revenue also came in above forecasts. The company said it did well in what it calls "challenging" economic conditions.
Shares of Hawaiian Holdings, the parent company of Hawaiian Airlines, gained more than 6 percent Friday, after a positive quarterly earnings report.
President and CEO Mark Dunkerley said that the company has seen "terrific, strong demand for the Hawaii vacation in every geography that we operate in" during an exclusive interview with CNBC's "Power Lunch" on Friday.
Dunkerley also said that Hawaiian is "lapping some of the headwinds" that it faced last year, such as "the appreciation of the U.S. dollar" against certain foreign currencies. This combined with lower fuel prices has helped propel the company forward, Dunkerley said.
In a world of disappearing market returns and negative interest rates, the search for growth has become increasingly difficult, Goldman Sachs reminded clients this week.
Still, the firm believes there are a few names to consider.
"During the last 10 years, S&P 500 revenues have expanded at an annualized pace of 2.9 percent, nearly the slowest pace in history," Goldman market strategist David Kostin wrote in a note to clients Thursday.
This year, Goldman Sachs forecasts that sales will rise by a tepid 2 percent and that growth will only marginally improve the next three years.
An acquisition of Pandora Media is unlikely due to problems with its business model and declining future profit potential, said Pacific Crest, which downgraded the radio streaming service's shares to underweight from sector weight.
"Pandora's core operating leverage has deteriorated and we see little prospect for meaningful profits in on-demand. While M&A is possible, we do not view it as likely at the current valuation. We believe economics in Pandora's core radio business have been impaired and we do not see meaningful potential for profitability in its push to on demand. We do not recommend owning P," said Pacific Crest's Andy Hargreaves in a Thursday note to clients.
Pandora rejected Liberty Media's roughly $15-per-share bid in recent months because its board believed the company's value was around $20 per share and it also shopped itself to Apple and Amazon earlier this year, according to a Wall Street Journal report Thursday.
Despite Chipotle stock's 5 percent jump on Friday, some analysts are telling investors not to buy.
On Thursday afternoon, the fast-casual chain reported a 16.6 percent revenue decline in its second-quarter compared to its 2015 second-quarter.
Chipotle attributed the drop in revenue to comparable restaurant sales.
"It looks like it's going to take a lot longer if it ever does get back to full strength," Barclays senior restaurant analyst Jeffrey Bernstein said about Chipotle's second-quarter on CNBC's "Power Lunch" Friday.
Some analysts said that although Chipotle's sales may recover within the next few years, the company's margins will not be the same.
"You have to differentiate between a good stock and a good business. I think that even the most bearish guys in the world are assuming that Chipotle is going to get their sales back," Wedbush Securities restaurant analyst Nick Setyan said. "Whether it's in 2018 or 2019 or 2020, they will get their sales back, the problem is their margin structure is going to look extremely different coming out of this crisis than going in."
While some experts were disappointed with Chipotle's latest report, Maxim Group senior restaurant and consumer analyst Stephen Anderson said that there is one thing helping the company right now.
"The one silver lining that Chipotle has right now is that commodity costs are relatively low, particularly for proteins. Once that starts to reverse, I think Chipotle will get hit harder than the peers," Anderson said.
Anderson also said that every incremental data point from Chipotle seemed "below consensus."
Bernstein said he was surprised by Chipotle's move, but is still not recommending its shares.
Markets have recovered nicely following Britain's vote to leave the European Union, but investors should be prepared for a potential wave of selling, Needham Growth Fund Portfolio Manager Chris Retzler said Friday.
Retzler made his comments one day after U.S. stock markets took a pause, with the Dow Jones industrial average snapping a nine-day winning streak.
"Markets aren't just going to go to the sky. They do correct," he told CNBC's "Squawk Box."
"We do still see a positive return going forward in the year. It wouldn't surprise us if there's some profit-taking in the markets," he said.
Stocks have been climbing a wall of worry, with equities rising as investors cover their short positions, he said. And while earnings season has been moderately better thus far, Retzler cautioned that the performance comes against a backdrop of lowered expectations.
Asked whether the rally had plateaued, Retzler said he instead views the market moves as a sign of sector rotation. Investors cannot expect the broad gains that came during the Federal Reserve's quantitative easing programs, he added.
Despite preaching caution, Retzler said the market has room to run. While the S&P 500 and Dow have set new records in recent weeks, the small-cap Russell 2000 index has yet to hit new all-time highs, he noted.
The Russell is up about 6 percent on the year through Thursday's close.
A resurgent Russell would help validate the large-cap rally in Retzler's view. He said he's also heartened by the turnaround in high-yield debt, an active mergers and acquisitions market and a trickle of successful initial public offerings like the debut of Twilio following an IPO drought.
The Republican Party's pledge to support the U.S. shale oil and gas industry would bolster the sector, while another Democratic president could produce more drilling delays, IHS Vice Chairman Daniel Yergin said Friday.
While U.S. exploration and production companies can generally obtain a drilling license within 30 days from state agencies, it can take several months to get permission to operate on federal land, he said.
"I think you would see a stronger industry" if it was easier to obtain federal permission, Yergin told CNBC's "Squawk Box." "What we're hearing from the Democrats is that they really want more regulation."
"It would slow things down," he said.
The Obama administration has announced regulations to cap methane emissions from new and modified oil and gas wells and stricter controls on federal lands for hydraulic fracturing, the technology that has fueled the U.S. shale boom, citing concerns over climate change and public health. The energy industry has roundly criticized those measures.
To be sure, more drilling on federal land may have simply contributed to lower oil prices by adding to a glut of crude, thereby dialing up the pain on hard-hit U.S. drillers, Again Capital partner John Kilduff previously told "Squawk Box."
Indeed, U.S. production is bound to continue falling as crude markets rebalance, Yergin said. The country's output slipped to 8.9 million barrels per day in April from a 45-year high of nearly 9.7 million bpd a year earlier.
The fact remains a wide gulf exists between Democrats and Republicans in terms of energy policy. Presumptive Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton has vowed to enforce or extend policies that would slash U.S. oil consumption by a third and generate a third of domestic electricity from renewable sources by 2027.
Yergin noted, however, that the outright ban on hydraulic fracturing proposed by Clinton's rival-turned-supporter Sen. Bernie Sanders of Vermont did not make it into the Democrat's 2016 platform.
Meanwhile, Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump is considering nominating Oklahoma oil and gas mogul Harold Hamm to be energy secretary if elected to the White House, Reuters reported Thursday, citing four sources close to Trump's campaign.
The chief executive of Continental Resources would be the first U.S. energy secretary drawn directly from the oil and gas industry since the cabinet position was created in 1977, a move that would jolt environmental advocates but bolster Trump's pro-drilling energy platform.
Yergin said the nomination would provide for an "interesting" confirmation hearing on Capitol Hill. The Republicans currently hold both houses of Congress, but Democrats are seen as having a shot at taking the Senate.
— Reuters contributed to this story.
BTIG on Friday lowered its rating for Facebook to neutral from buy, saying it expects the company to miss Wall Street estimates.
"Investor expectations over the past year have risen dramatically and we now feel the bar is simply too high," analyst Richard Greenfield wrote in a note to clients.
"With Facebook stock now over $120, exceeding the $117 price target we set one year ago this week, we believe the risk/reward is no longer compelling. ... With the success of Facebook stock over the past year, we believe near-to-intermediate term shortfalls vs. expectations could be painful."
As the S&P 500 surges to record highs, Oppenheimer's head of technical analysis sees a pattern that suggests more gains are likely in the weeks ahead.
It all comes down to market breadth — that many stocks are participating in a market surge, Ari Wald told CNBC. He points out that the percentage of stocks that are trading above their average close over the past 200 days has hit 70 percent.
This indicator marks a "resumption of strength like it did in 1995, 2003, 2009 and 2012," Wald said Thursday on "Trading Nation."

This isn't the only historical parallel that convinces Wald the market bounce still has legs.
Wald points out that since the 1950s, every time the S&P 500 reached a new all-time high after being below its prior high for at least a year, the next 12 months are up an average of 14 percent, according to a study conducted at Oppenheimer. It's been positive 12 out of 13 times since 1950 when this situation arose.
"All-time highs are bullish," Wald said.
Wald said he sees the S&P going to 2,250 by the end of 2016, and for those looking to profit from the rally, the recent breakout at 2,135 is an "attractive entry point."
One of Wall Street's top analysts downgraded his rating on Twitter to market perform from outperform due to the risk the social network will miss Wall Street sales forecasts for the September quarter.
"We believe 3Q Street revenue estimates (+12% q/q) could prove aggressive given our recent ad checks and typically seasonally soft 3Q period," Raymond James' Aaron Kessler wrote in a note to clients Friday. "Further our checks indicated continued strong growth for Facebook and moreover for Instagram and believe Instagram monetization could be a near-term negative for Twitter revenues."
Kessler's forecast for Twitter's third-quarter sales is $649 million versus the Wall Street consensus of $682 million, according to FactSet. The company reports second quarter-earnings Tuesday and may disappoint investors then with its forecast for the current quarter, the analyst said.
The "Fast Money" traders shared their first moves for the market open.
Tim Seymour stuck with Starbucks, which had reported quarterly numbers after Thursday's close.
Karen Finerman was a seller of United Rentals.
Brian Kelly was a buyer of the iShares 20+ Year Treasury Bond ETF.
Guy Adami was a buyer of Newmont Mining.
Check out which companies are making headlines before the bell:
General Electric — The industrial conglomerate earned an adjusted 51 cents per share for the second quarter, five cents a share above estimates. Revenue also scored a beat. Revenue was up 15 percent over a year ago, although GE said the current business environment is being affected by a "volatile and slow growth economy."
Honeywell — Honeywell beat estimates by two cents a share, with quarterly profit of $1.66 per share. Revenue missed forecasts, however. Honeywell also raised the lower end of its full-year guidance. Separately, the industrial company announced it would split its automation and control solutions units.
Whirlpool — The appliance maker reported adjusted quarterly profit of $3.50 per share, 14 cents a share above estimates. Revenue also came in above forecasts. Whirlpool also raised its full-year earnings forecast, as it benefits from volume growth, cost cuts, and acquisitions.
Stanley Black & Decker — The tool company came in 13 cents a share above estimates, with quarterly profit of $1.84 per share. Revenue was also slightly above estimates. The company raised its full-year forecast as well, as volume growth increases and profit margins expand. Separately, the company announced CEO John Lundgren will retire July 31, to be replaced by current President/COO James Loree.
VF Corp. — The maker of North Face, Nautica, and other apparel brands earned an adjusted 35 cents per share for its latest quarter, one cent a share above estimates. Revenue fell short, however, and VF cut its sales forecasts for a number of key segments.
Starbucks — Shares were are under pressure after adjusted earnings of 49 cents per share merely matched forecasts, and revenue was below Street forecasts. Investors are also focused on a lower-than-expected four percent increase in comparable-store sales in both the U.S. and globally.
AT&T — AT&T earned an adjusted 72 cents per share for the second quarter, matching estimates, while revenue was slightly below analyst projections. AT&T saw an increase in wireless subscribers, but also experienced a decline in pay-TV customers.
21st Century Fox — The company announced the resignation of Roger Ailes as chairman and chief executive of the Fox News Channel, a development widely expected over the past few days in the aftermath of a sexual harassment lawsuit by former anchor Gretchen Carlson.
Chipotle Mexican Grill — Chipotle missed estimates by six cents a share, with quarterly profit of 87 cents per share. The restaurant chain's revenue also posted a miss, as comparable-store sales dropped more than expected. That came despite promotions and increased food safety measures in the aftermath of last year's food illness incidents.
Visa — Visa came in three cents a share above estimates, with adjusted quarterly profit of 69 cents per share. Revenue was very slightly below forecasts. The credit card issuer also announced a $5 billion share repurchase program, as well as a new strategic partnership with PayPal.
PayPal — PayPal matched forecasts, with adjusted quarterly profit of 36 cents per share. The payment service's revenue beat estimates, thanks to growth in its online payments business.
Pandora Media — Pandora lost 12 cents per share, narrower than the 16 cents a share analysts had expected. The online radio service's revenue missed forecasts, however, as did its current-quarter revenue guidance, owing to a drop in active listeners.
Skechers — Skechers reported quarterly profit of 48 cents per share, four cents a share below estimates. Revenue also missed Street forecasts. The shoe maker was hurt by several factors, including currency fluctuations and a fire at a warehouse located in Malaysia.
Boeing — Boeing said it would take a more than $2 billion charge against earnings for the second quarter, related to various aircraft programs, including the KC-46 tanker aircraft and 787 Dreamliner programs. Boeing is scheduled to report second-quarter earnings next Wednesday.
ConocoPhillips — ConocoPhillips will cut six percent of its workforce, about 1,000 workers, in the energy giant's U.S. and Canada operations.
Valeant Pharmaceuticals — The drugmaker said the Food and Drug Administration has raised issues regarding a Bausch & Lomb eye drop manufactured at a facility in Florida. The eye drop in question treats a certain type of glaucoma, and Valeant said it planned to address and resolve the concerns.
Syngenta — Syngenta said it expected its deal to be bought by ChemChina to be completed by the end of the year. That statement came as the agricultural chemical maker reported lower-than-expected first-half profit.
Amazon.com — Amazon is set to announced new investments in Italy worth at least $500 million, according to Reuters.
Advanced Micro Devices — AMD posted its first increase in sales in almost two years during the second quarter, thanks to increasing demand for videogame and graphics chips. AMD lost five cents per share for the quarter, compared to the eight cent a share consensus estimate. Revenue was above forecasts.
Dunkin' Brands did not have a "spectacular" quarter, but it did execute important strategies for the future, CEO Nigel Travis said Thursday.
For one, it launched its cold brew coffee, which is a "game changer," he said in an interview with CNBC's "Closing Bell."
It also launched on-the-go ordering.
"This is the biggest operational change since we introduced drive-throughs," he said.
The company reported weaker-than-expected sales growth and strong headwinds in international markets Thursday. It also fell short on revenue, which came in at $216.3 million. Analysts had called for revenue of $220.2 million.
Earnings, however, beat expectations. Dunkin' Brands reported adjusted profit of 57 cents per share against a forecast of 56 cents a share. Revenue came in at $216.3 million, while analysts, on average, had called for revenue of $220.2 million.
The company also announced it would be selling most of its company-owned stores.
"We will probably end up, to be honest, with no company stores in the near future. We feel the time for them has passed. We're 100 percent franchise," Travis told CNBC.
He said the move will have no impact on the company's profitability.
He also hopes that whoever becomes the next president focuses on supporting small-business people like those who own the Dunkin' franchises.
— CNBC's Sarah Whitten contributed to this report.
As much as Jim Cramer loves eqities, he knows investors have lost trust in the stock market.
It was clear to Cramer that stocks are now a disgraced asset class when he saw a recent Bankrate survey that indicated real estate and cash as the most popular investments.
In the survey, 1,000 adults were asked what they would do with their money if they didn't need it for 10 years. A quarter said they would buy real estate, 23 percent said they would keep it in cash. Only 16 percent said they would put it into stocks, which was the same percentage as those who would choose to hide money in gold or precious metals.
"As someone who has lived and breathed stocks for most of my life, this is a horrendous finding. But it's not surprising," the "Mad Money" host said.
But that doesn't mean real estate and cash are better options. While real estate is perceived as reliable, it also lost a great deal of value in the housing collapse just seven years ago. As for cash, a 10-year time horizon sitting in a savings account will lose money versus the rate of inflation.
"If you can find stocks of high-quality companies with good balance sheets that pay strong dividends and have a bit of growth, I think you could crush the returns of those other asset classes over a 10-year period, provided you reinvest the dividends," Cramer said, "I just think you will do so much better in stocks."
Campbell Soup Company has been on fire this year, with its stock up 20 percent, and its CEO Denise Morrison says this is just the beginning of leading a major change happening in the food industry.
According to Morrison, Campbell has been watching a change in the trend of venture capitalism, with more than 400 start-ups receiving $8 billion in VC funding since 2010.
"It's disruption going on in the whole ecosystem of food. From buy, make, sell, deliver. And it's pretty stunning. The entrepreneurial spirit has moved from the garage in high-tech, to the kitchen in food," Morrison said.
Earnings update: still moving in the right direction. There have been several high-profile earnings disappointments today, notably Southwest Airlines and Sherwin-Williams, on top of the disappointing revenue from Intel's data center.
But don't kid yourself: the direction of earnings continues to improve, and GM's huge beat ($1.86 v. $1.52 expected) and higher guidance is one of the main factors.
Brexit apparently wasn't what it was cracked up to be.
Rather than the major disruptive factor to the global economy and financial markets that was expected, the decision by Britons to exit the European Union has had a decidedly muted effect.
Consider:
"People view the post-Brexit uncertainty and how it's going to shake out as just another uncertainty in the market, but not one that's going to take precedence over a lot of other issues," Andy Wilson, U.S. head of the U.S.-U.K. M&A Deal Corridor at Deloitte, said in an interview.
"The U.K. and U.S. are sophisticated markets," he added. "Sure, there are going to be lots of details to hammer out, but everyone is fairly certain they're going to get hammered out in a way that's not going to disrupt the economies of the major players."
First-half activity, particularly in deals targeted for the U.K., declined precipitously after several years of strength. Deal dollar volume tumbled 47 percent from the first quarter, with the $50.1 billion of total inbound deal activity representing a decline of 66 percent from the same period in 2015, according to data tracker Dealogic.
Elon Musk's new master plan will test the Tesla shareholder faithful. In a blog post late on Wednesday, the electric car maker's boss laid out his vision for the next decade or so. He has some compelling ideas: building more vehicle types and ramping up autonomous-driving capabilities for a sharing economy. The trouble is that plenty of rivals want a piece of it, too. And his missive fails to address several more immediate concerns — not least how to finance his ambitions.
Musk titled his post "Master Plan, Part Deux," — a reference to the "Secret Tesla Motors Master Plan (just between you and me)" that he wrote almost 10 years ago to the day. That detailed how he was building an electric sports car in order to raise funds to manufacture family-friendly vehicles down the road. He has largely succeeded, which lessens the conceit of drafting a new outline for the next decade.
PulteGroup got a big boost from a strong quarterly report and saw shareholders drive the stock up after news that it struck a deal with activist investor Paul Singer's Elliott Management.
The stock gained more than 5 percent Thursday, driven in part by a quarterly earnings that topped Wall Street expectations. The home builder also revealed that it will repurchase $1 billion in shares.
Also pushing shares higher was news that the company agreed Thursday to replace three directors; that move comes after former CEO William "Bill" Pulte, who remains Pulte's largest shareholder, began agitating for change at the company. Last month, Elliott Management took a stake in Pulte stock.
In a Thursday statement obtained by CNBC, the former chief executive said that "while much work remains to be done in order for a successful outcome, the board appears to be taking the first steps towards enacting change and addressing the protracted poor share price performance. If Pulte Group wants to be a very profitable builder, it has to start to realize operating efficiencies."
Biotech stocks have turned the tide in recent weeks, but the surging sector is still missing one key ingredient for growth this year, Evercore ISI analyst Mark Schoenebaum said Thursday.
That missing link is a major product cycle of new drug discoveries for "big" diseases, according Schoenebaum, a member of Institutional Investor's 2015 top team for major pharmaceuticals and biotechnology.
In particular, the industry has not found success with drugs Wall Street expected to fail, which historically provide the biggest upside surprise for stocks, he added.
"We haven't seen a lot of that this year, and that's what the space really, really needs. And it's not clear we're going to get that this year," he told CNBC's "Fast Money: Halftime Report."
Still, Schoenebaum said valuations within the space are reasonable and could prove interesting to value investors. He said he'd be surprised — but not shocked — if the sector turns lower once again.
The iShares Nasdaq Biotechnology ETF is up 16 percent since the rally began the week of June 27, while the SPDR S&P Biotech ETF is up 19 percent over the same period. They are down 17 percent and 15.7 percent this year, respectively.
The stock most likely to hold or extend recent gains is Biogen — up 7 percent in the last four weeks — Schoenebaum said. The shares are down 8 percent this year, though he has had a buy rating on them throughout that time.
Schoenebaum said he doubled down on Biogen stock on the view that the company has a high probability of developing a dominant Alzheimer's franchise by 2018 or 2019.
In his view, there is currently an unmet need for Alzheimer's drugs, which have an addressable market of millions of patients. But the next set of definitive data from Biogen is not due until 2018, which is beyond the investable time horizon for many Wall Street firms, he said.
In the next year, Schoenebaum said he expects investors to realize that Biogen has "the best data ever presented in Alzheimer's — period," and that its phase three trials "are not terribly high risk."
Gilead, up 11 percent during the rally, is another stock for which investors must take a long-term view. The shares are down 26 percent over the past year.
The company faces slowing growth in its key hepatitis C and HIV drug business, and now needs a third leg to stand on, he said.
Schoenebaum noted the biotech giant has historically allocated half of what peers spend on research and development, opting instead to expand through acquisitions. But investors fear no single deal can spark a turnaround because the company, in terms of net income, is so large.
"This could be a multiyear process of smaller deals that sort of accumulate over time and eventually accelerate the growth rate," he said.
Still, Gilead has "arguably the best CEO in the business" in John Milligan, and the stock is trading at a single-digit price-earnings multiple, he said.
Shares of Qualcomm  jumped more than 7 percent Thursday after an upbeat earnings report.
CEO Steve Mollenkopf attributed the strong results to the company's execution of a strategy it laid out in 2015.
Qualcomm announced last year that it was cutting about 15 percent of its workforce amid reduced demand and lower sell through in China. This quarter, the company was able to deliver stronger numbers, improving investor and analyst sentiment on the stock.
But Qualcomm is still in the "early innings of where we think we're going to take the company," Mollenkopf said in an exclusive interview with CNBC's "Squawk Alley."
"The key piece is the underlying technology migration to LTE, which has been the engine that is really driving the importance of getting China in a good spot for us as a business. ... China will continue to be an important component of the growth story for Qualcomm moving forward," he said on Thursday.
Not since the financial crisis have fund managers been so worried about protectionism.
In the latest Bank of America Merrill Lynch monthly fund managers' survey, protectionist risk was listed by 160 global fund managers as the second-biggest risk for financial stability, after geopolitical risk.
BofAML chief investment strategist Michael Hartnett said the rise in protectionist concerns are tied to Brexit, the immigration worries in Europe and the U.S. presidential election.
After posting record earnings and setting 19 financial records during the second quarter, General Motors is warning that the U.K.'s decision to exit the European Union could slow down a fledgling recovery in that market during the second half of the year.
Yet that warning did little to cool the enthusiasm of investors, who pushed the company's shares to $32.19, more than 2 percent higher, following its second-quarter earnings report.
Not only did GM's results easily top Wall Street's expectations, but the automaker raised its forecast for the full year, to between $5.50 and $6 a share. That compares with its previous $5.25 to $5.75 a share.
"Prior to the post-Brexit referendum, we were on target to break even for the year," CFO Chuck Stevens told analysts during the company's conference call. "If current post-referendum market conditions are sustained through the remainder of 2016, we believe it could have an impact of $400 million for the second half."
Among the 19 financial records the automaker set during the second quarter were a profit of $3.6 billion in North America, and a profit margin of 12.1 percent in the region. These numbers helped validate the company's strategy of curbing less profitable fleet sales to rental car companies, government agencies and corporations, and instead focusing on more profitable retail sales through auto dealerships.
Meanwhile, the automaker's European operations registered their first quarterly profit in five years.
For CEO Mary Barra, the company's latest figures show what she and her management team can do the farther away they get from a string of issues that dogged them the last two years.
The ignition switch scandal, which cost the company more than $5 billion, is largely in the company's rear-view mirror. Meanwhile, activist investors who led a proxy battle in 2015 have been quieted by the company's recent run of profitable earnings. And finally, there is zero chatter about merging with Fiat Chrysler.
Still, shares of GM are trading slightly below the $33 price at which the stock returned to the public market in November 2010.
When asked if she sees her company's stock as a growth play for investors or more of a value investment given the company's dividend, she said, "I would be very happy if people thought of us delivering both."
Questions? Comments? BehindTheWheel@cnbc.com.
Union Pacific stocks dropped more than 2 percent Thursday after reporting a 12 percent decline in operating revenue for its second quarter.
"We're still facing some of the very same headwinds we've faced in the last four or five quarters; natural gas pricing, replacing coal for a source of electricity, a strong U.S. dollar getting in the way of exports, the shale energy related activity being pretty depressed," Union Pacific CEO Lance Fritz said Thursday on "Squawk on the Street." "But we are seeing sequential improvement."
Union Pacific shares are up more than 17 percent in the year-to-date.
Union Pacific 12-month performance:

Warren Buffett revealed what was discussed during a secret meeting held by the legendary investor and other top chief executives about the dire state of public companies.
The list of attendees included names like BlackRock CEO Larry Fink, JPMorgan CEO Jamie Dimon, GE CEO Jeff Immelt and General Motors' CEO Mary Barra, among many others, who gathered to discuss how to best address the misplaced focus of public companies on short-term results.
"Our future depends on these companies being managed effectively for long-term prosperity, which is why the governance of American companies is so important to every American," a report issued by the group said. "Corporate governance in recent years has often been an area of intense debate among investors, corporate leaders and other stakeholders. Yet, too often, that debate has generated more heat than light."
In this exclusive interview, Buffett shares his views on the CEO gathering along with other topics such as:
CNBC PRO members have access to the entire interview, which was first broadcast during "Squawk Box."
Government bond yields are hitting all-time lows, leading investors on a hunt for yield which is scaring Cowen and Co.'s David Seaburg.
"When you look at ... the outright chase for yield recently, it actually scares me quite a bit to step into some of these names that have been really bid up. I look at the overall market and … I really think that we're in a tape right now that's incredibly unpredictable. You've got hedge funds that are incredibly underweight equities and they're underperforming. That's the worst-case position they could be in right now," the firm's head of sales trading said Friday on CNBC's "Squawk on the Street."
A combination of elements, including fears over a possible Brexit and about the underlying global economy, has sent investors looking for safe havens in lieu of risk assets.
Adding fuel to the Brexit fears, The Independent released a poll Friday showing the "leave" camp has gained a lead over the "remain" camp.
On Friday, the 10-year German bund yield hit a fresh all-time low, closing in within a whisker of zero, while the benchmark U.S. 10-year yield traded near its lowest level since February. Prices and yields move inversely.
Goldman Sachs' headaches stemming from its work on a Malaysian state wealth fund are growing.
The bank is under investigation by the New York Department of Financial Services, according to a source. The department sent a letter to Goldman requesting information regarding its work on Malaysian fund 1MDB and whether its dealings comply with New York state banking regulations. The inquiry is not a subpoena, but instead an information-gathering effort.
The department is pushing for the bank to reply by Wednesday.
Both Goldman and the DFS declined to comment when contacted by CNBC.
Qualcomm, one of Apple's major chip suppliers, saw shares fall 2 percent Friday after reports that Intel inked an iPhone chip order.
Intel chips will be used for the AT&T version of iPhone and other overseas models, Bloomberg reported Friday. Intel shares inched higher after the news. Verizon phones and iPhones sold in China will stick with Qualcomm, sources told Bloomberg.
Rumors of an Intel-Apple deal have plagued Qualcomm for some time, wrote Brean Capital analyst Mike Burton, who Thursday downgraded Qualcomm stock to "hold."
"We believe that Apple has had a meaningful influence on the pricing dynamics of mobile devices; if Apple's aspirational device is not holding up the high end of pricing, the entire market tends to suffer," Burton wrote in a research note, adding: "While it is unclear how much this will impact QCOM and we believe QCOM has appropriately modeled this near term, we think that Apple is using Intel as a 'hammer' against QCOM."
It came as Intel has undergone steep cost-cutting amid a cooling PC market, with shares down nearly 7 percent year to date as the company mounts a pivot toward mobile and cloud computing. Qualcomm shares are up about 8 percent so far this year.
Intel and Qualcomm both declined to comment on the report. Apple did not immediately respond to CNBC's request for comment.
Shares of Walgreens Boots Alliance and Rite Aid jumped after a report said there are growing signs that the Federal Trade Commission will approve Walgreens' $17 billion acquisition of Rite Aid.
The report, published in the New York Post, cited unnamed sources, and said any approval would come with conditions.
The deal hopes to combine the first and third largest drugstore operators. Some have said that if it gets regulatory approval, it could further escalate the competition between Walgreens and CVS Health.
The regulator's chief concern has been the negotiating power the combined company will have with pharmacy benefit managers, who negotiate prices with drug manufacturers for pharmacies. However, the Post said the chief executive of the number one PBM, Express Scripts CEO Tim Wentworth, said Thursday that he supported the deal.
There will still be, post-merger, plenty of competition in retail, Wentworth told the Post. He added there are questions about whether any of the sizable pharmacy benefit managers will object.
Walgreen is expected to announce in a few days the beginning of a process to divest stores in regions where the chains may have too much overlap, a source close to the situation told the Post.
Shares of both Walgreens and Rite Aid both traded in heavier-than-usual volume Friday. Walgreens shares closed up 4.4 percent with nearly 10.8 million shares trading hands, compared with its 30-day average volume of 4.3 million.
WAB 2016 Chart
Rite Aid gained 3.4 percent on volume of nearly 43 million shares, more than double its 30-day average volume of 14.1 million shares.
RAD 2016 Chart
Shares of H&R Block spiked 12 percent Friday after the tax-preparation firm reported adjusted quarterly profits that beat estimates, as well as a 10 percent dividend increase.
Analysts at Piper Jaffray maintained their "overweight" rating on the stock, saying: "we see intriguing upside potential in the context of HRB's depressed multiple on depressed earnings, plans to recapture early season filers, and management's reiterated long-term EBITDA margin targets."
That said, they also cut their price target on H&R Block to $29 from $31 a share, noting a weak 2016 tax season.
"H&R Block's F4Q release acknowledged the disappointing 2016 tax season and the need for structural changes to avoid a similar loss of market share, but was light on specific details around actions to improve volumes and cost savings flow-through," according to a Friday note to clients.
Shares of Axiall surged more than 26 percent Friday after the company announced it would be taken over by Westlake Chemical.
Houston-based Westlake, which manufactures and supplies petrochemicals, will acquire Axiall for $33 per share in an all-cash transaction. The deal is valued at approximately $3.8 billion, including debt and other liabilities, the companies said in a joint statement. The deal was approved by both companies' boards, and is expected to close by the end of the fourth quarter of this year.
The combined company is expected to bring in revenue of $7.6 billion for the year, and will be the third largest chloralkali producer and the second-largest polyvinyl chloride, or PVC, producer in North America, the companies.
"We are pleased to have reached this agreement with Westlake, which provides our stockholders with immediate recognition of the long-term value of our company, underscoring our Board's commitment to maximizing stockholder value," Axiall CEO Timothy Mann said in a statement. "We look forward to working closely with the Westlake team to ensure a smooth transition and complete the transaction as expeditiously as possible."
The combination will complement geographic positions, expand manufacturing, and combine balance sheets to "capitalize on future investment opportunities," the companies said.
Shares of Mobileye and Delphi Automotive are in the best spot to benefit from car automation technology, analysts at Piper Jaffray said in a Thursday note to clients.
"Cars are changing dramatically, with technologies such as automation, electrification and connectivity having a disruptive impact on the market. Of stocks with exposure to these themes, we think MBLY and DLPH ... are the best ways to invest," the note said.
Piper initiated coverage of both stocks with an "overweight" rating, placing price targets of $82 and $50 on Delphi and Mobileye, respectively.
"We think buying MBLY is the best way for investors to experience multiple years of 40%+ growth without fretting too much about competition," the note said. "For investors seeking a lower multiple than MBLY, we recommend DLPH. The stock trades at just over 11x our FY16 EPS estimate — not too demanding for a company whose EPS should grow by 12%-16% annually through 2018."
Shares of both Delphi and Mobileye are down 21 percent and 14 percent year to date, respectively. On Friday they were down more than 2 percent.
MBLY (blue) and DLPH (green) in 2016Source: FactSet
Disclosures: Piper "usually" provides bids and offers for the securities of Mobileye  and Delphi.
Oil prices are likely to fall toward $40 a barrel as China's crude imports hit an inevitable ceiling, according to Matt Smith, director of commodity research at ClipperData.
Oil futures have rallied more than 90 percent to about $50 a barrel since their winter lows, but Smith said Friday the market is missing something in China.
"China is importing so much crude, it's absolutely insane. They're importing about a million barrels a day more than they are actually consuming," he told CNBC's "Squawk Box."
China put about 787,000 barrels of oil per day into storage in the first quarter, Oilprice.com reported, citing Bloomberg data.
By Smith's count, China has stockpiled about 135 million barrels of oil. The trouble is the most optimistic estimates put China's storage capacity at 155 million barrels, he said.
In theory, China could hit capacity in 20 to 30 days, at which point imports will "drop off a cliff," he said.
Meanwhile, Saudi Arabia, Iran and Iraq are ramping up production, and higher prices appear to be eliciting a supply response from U.S. drillers, he said. On Wednesday, weekly data indicated U.S. output ticked up for the first time in three months.
Those factors could send crude prices spiraling down toward $40 a barrel, and perhaps even into the $30s, Smith said.
Smith made the call one day after Continental Resources Chairman and CEO Harold Hamm told "Squawk Box" he expects oil prices to end the year between $69 and $72  a barrel.
We're living in a very different housing world today — from tighter credit to stricter regulations — compared with the dark days of the crash, but rising residential prices are starting to spark concern again, according to a major real estate investor and a leading real estate attorney who appeared Friday on CNBC.
But Ethan Penner, managing partner at Mosaic Real Estate Investors, and Shari Olefson, attorney and director of The Carnegie Group think tank, disagree about whether the crosscurrents in the property market are pointing to a bubble.
The housing market has been putting out a lot of mixed signals in this spring buying and selling season. On the one hand, there's solid, strong demand for housing. But on the other, low supply has pushed prices through the roof again, leading to weaker-than-expected home sales.
Penner told "Squawk Box" that he's not worried about these factors causing a bubble. "We are clearly at very high pricing by historical standards. But that's true of every financial asset. And in my mind, it's more of a reflection of [Federal Reserve] interest rates policy than anything else."
Average housing prices rose 5.2 percent in March, according to the S&P/Case-Shiller national home price index, which was just 4 percent shy of its 2006 peak after falling nearly 30 percent by 2012.
Olefson sees bubbles in some markets, citing the rate of housing price increases outpacing wage rises as a red flag.
Another factor sopping up supply and increasing prices is the return of the house flippers. Trying to take advantage of rising prices, investors are scooping up properties for cash, which tends to be more attractive to sellers. That's leaving mortgage-dependent buyers out in the cold.
The other side of the low-supply coin are the 4 million would-be sellers stuck in place because they're underwater, according to property analytics firm CoreLogic. In fact, about 18 percent of all homeowners with a mortgage have less than 20 percent equity, so they're not selling yet.
Builders are certainly ramping up to help on the supply side, but housing starts are nowhere near the 1.2 million unit per year historical norm. Starts are only running at about an annualized rate of 780,000 for this year.
Additionally, Olefson said she's concerned about how the 2008 housing crash has changed the way Americans think about homeownership.
"We have removed the stigma associated with foreclosures. Before the bubble and the crisis, nobody really knew what would happen if they went into foreclosure. No one knew what a short sale was. That is [now] common vernacular," she contended.
"When Americans start looking at housing as something to speculate on," she said, "that's actually the biggest indicator I think in this modern-day housing world of a bubble."
Penner countered by saying speculation should not be viewed as an overly worrisome sign. "Speculative orientations exist in every market all the time."
Food stock have offered investors scrumptious returns this year, but in spite of the run, some traders think that they're not worth digging into.
Larry McDonald, managing director and head of global macro strategy at ACG Analytics, believes the massive run in some food stocks is a result of their high dividends, and consequently, have become "crowded trades" in a world of low yields.
"Central bankers are driving capital into places it just shouldn't be. People are using these types of stocks as bonds," he said on CNBC's "Trading Nation" Thursday. "You have investors all around the world flocking to the United States trying to get some income and it's just a very, very crowded trade."
And apparently, the crowd is willing to pay. Kraft Heinz trades at a multiple of 33. Campbell Soup and Kellogg command respective multiples of 22 and 21. Meanwhile, the S&P 500 trades at 17 times earnings.
But despite the lofty valuations for those particular stocks, Ari Wald, technical analyst at Oppenheimer & Co., still remains bullish on stocks in the consumer staples ETF (XLP), which includes those particular stocks. Displaying a long-term chart of the XLP, Wald shows that the ETF broke out in March and is in a position to do the same again.

"We think [the consumer staples] continue to work," he said. "In general as long as rates are low, you're going to continue to have this premium placed on the higher-dividend stocks like consumer staples that act as a bond proxy. And we really aren't seeing much signs of rates turning up."
One stock Wald is watching in the same sector is food company General Mills, which boasts trends that he sees mirroring the XLP.
"[General Mills is] very similarly set up here as well with the breakout in March consolidating sideways," he said. "Stocks like these continue to work."
Analysts at William Blair began coverage of Amazon with a very bullish take on the stock.
The firm initiated the e-commerce giant's stock with an "outperform" rating and a price target of $820 a share, citing the strength and market share lead of Amazon Web Services. The stock traded near $718 a share on Friday.
"Despite increasingly aggressive competition from Microsoft and Google, our research suggests that Amazon maintains very high win rates. We believe this can be attributed to the company's significantly greater feature depth, geographical footprint, and industry mindshare," they said in a Thursday note to clients. "The infrastructure-as-a-service (IaaS) market is forecast to grow from $12 billion in 2015 to $62 billion in 2020, and we expect Amazon Web Services (AWS) to maintain its leading market share position over the duration of our forecast."
William Blair also noted Amazon would benefit from higher e-commerce penetration. "We believe e-commerce sales will continue to account for a greater percentage of retail sales, driven by convenience and faster and less expensive delivery.
Amazon's stock has been on fire over the past year, gaining nearly 67 percent, and recently hit a new all-time high.
AMZN 12-month chartSource: FactSet
Disclosure: William Blair makes a market maker for Amazon.
Shares of Urban Outfitters shed more than 5 percent Friday after the firm revealed that same-store sales, a key measurement for retailers, were falling this quarter.
The company said in a Securities and Exchange Commission filing that fiscal second-quarter comparable sales for its retail segment were down a "mid single-digit" percentage. Analysts had expected Urban's same-store sales to grow 0.2 percent for the quarter, according to StreetAccount.
Urban Outfitters' stock was down 20.6 percent over the past year entering Friday's session, but had gained more than 22 percent year to date.
URBN 2016 chartSource: FactSet
Analysts at Stifel cut their second-quarter earnings estimate to 55 cents a share from 58 cents, but added they remain bullish in the stock long term.
"We remain favorable regarding the long-term outlook of the company driven by: a talented management team, significant growth opportunities, industry leading omni-channel capabilities and strong brand equity fueled by highly differentiated merchandise assortments that resonate well with each brands targeted customers," they said in a Thursday note to clients.
Disclosure: Stifel makes a market in Urban Outfitters' stock.
If you were even the best person at math, you'd probably find yourself confused by the spate of varying media accounts about the second round of bids in the never-ending sale of Yahoo.
(So never-ending, it seems, it makes you wonder if anyone is working on reviving the actual core business of Yahoo, which has been hurtling off a cliff now for a very long time.)
More from Recode: How do food delivery startups stay in business? Box exec Younger bolts for the COO job at Jeffrey Katzenberg-linked Nova Why CTOs have been thinking about intelligence all wrong
But being for sale is what Yahoo does for a living now, with the latest reports saying that the new bids range from $3 billion to over $5 billion. That's a big delta, of course, so let me break it down for you.
To begin, think about this a little like there is a house called Yahoo that a few people are looking to buy. Once a beauty, it's become run-down and in a neighborhood that is no longer that nice, but it's not a complete teardown either. Over time, each potential bidder gets a closer and closer look at the property and forms their own thoughts about what it's worth. With a little paint and some renovation, some think its value could rise; others are worried about termites. Lots and lots of termites.
In fact, a house auction is what one buyer compared it to. "This is a pretty basic deal with everyone trying to figure out the risk and reward here of taking over a clearly failing business," said the bidder. "Everyone has different criteria for what matters."
Despite Friday's sell-off and the bearish remarks made by billionaires Carl Icahn and George Soros, Jim Cramer said he is "more constructive than most" on the market.
"I just think, when you look at the overall profile of the earnings that we've been getting of late … they're pretty good, but I recognized we've been up a lot, and it's been very benign. We need to shake out some of the weaker hands," Cramer said Friday on "Squawk on the Street."
U.S. equities fell sharply Friday, with the Dow Jones industrial average falling nearly 150 points at session lows, as global bond yields fell to record lows.
10-year German bund yield this weekSource: FactSet
On Thursday, Soros came out of trading retirement with a series of very bearish bets, selling equities in favor of gold and gold miners' stocks, according to The Wall Street Journal. Icahn, meanwhile, said Soros' strategy made sense as equities had been falsely propped up.
"It certainly doesn't hurt anyone to take some profit ... but it's very easy to be very rich and to be very negative," Cramer said.
Shares of Mylan fell Friday, slipping as much as 5 percent, after a Wells Fargo Securities analyst said he was worried about the pharmaceutical firm's pricing practices.
The stock ended the day down more than 2 percent.
In the last six months, Mylan raised prices more than 20 percent on 24 of its products, and more than 100 percent on seven products, according to Wells Fargo analyst David Maris, who cited Medi-Span pricing data for his statistics, in a research note to clients.
But Mylan spokeswoman Nina Devlin, in a written statement, called the analysis "flawed."
"Mylan has always been known to have one of the industry's broadest and most globally diversified business models and portfolios, which we have successfully managed by balancing numerous variables, including the natural price reductions that have always been inherent to the generics industry," Devlin said.
Devlin said the analysis focused on a small number of products out of the company's more than 1,400 products Mylan sells globally and the about 600 products it sells in North America, which she said was "self-serving and misleading to investors."
"This is especially true given that these generic products represent an extremely small percentage of Mylan's approximately $4 billion North American generics business," she said.
In the research note, Maris cited examples that included "a 542 percent increase for ursodiol, a generic medication used to treat gallstones, a 444 percent increase in metoclopramide, a generic medication commonly used to treat gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) and gastroparesis, and a 400 percent increase in dicyclomine, a medication used to treat irritable bowel syndrome. Mylan also raised the price of tolterodine by 56 percent in 2016."
The report also noted Mylan has not limited price increases to its smaller drugs either. In May, the company increased the price of Epi-Pen, its largest product, by 15 percent. The analyst noted the price increases could come at a cost to patients and impact their reputation to shareholders.
In the past year, Valeant, Turing and other pharmaceutical companies have faced scrutiny over their pricing actions, prompting senate hearings, proposed legislation and discussion in the presidential election cycle.
"We believe that given the regulatory environment, these pricing actions could bring greater regulatory scrutiny and headline risk," Maris wrote. "Additionally, we wonder if aggressive price increases are being used to make EPS targets or to offset disappointing sales in other areas."
But Mylan disagreed.
"Mylan's business model is not today, nor has it ever been, premised on price hikes," Devlin said.
Mylan's stock has dropped sharply this year, falling 17 percent.
MYL 2016 Chart
Disclosure: Wells Fargo maintains a market in the common stock of Mylan.
(UPDATE: This story was updated to include the company's comments.)
If your soccer dream team was an equity portfolio, which stocks would be in it? Bookmakers, sports apparel firms and travel companies seem a safe bet to profit from a large sporting event, but are they the best stocks to hold over the course of a competition?
Ahead of the UEFA Euro 2016 soccer tournament in France, CNBC checks in on the players that should be on your equity dream team.
Using quantitative analysis tool Kensho CNBC screened for the best-performing stocks during the previous UEFA championships if you bought on the first day and sold on the last day of the tournament. The Euro STOXX Healthcare sector is the surprise outperformer with an average return of over 2 percent during the last seven European soccer championships, with the star players being Smith & Nephew, GSK and Shire. That's at direct odds with the sector with the worst performance, technology, which posted an average loss of over 2 percent over the same time, and traded positive on only 45 percent of tournament days.
The "Fast Money" traders evaluated the election risks for biotechnology stocks after President Barack Obama officially endorsed presumptive democratic nominee Hillary Clinton, who has been critical of drug pricing. New York billionaire and presumptive GOP nominee Donald Trump has also come out against the health care industry's pricing strategy.
Trader Guy Adam says there's opportunity to get into the iShares Nasdaq Biotechnology ETF and that, if elected, the sector may not even be Clinton's main target in the early part of her presidency.
"I think if Hillary gets elected — she said her first 100 days is a bullseye on Wall Street. So, I think biotech will be on the backburner," he said.
Trader Brian Kelly said that he thinks it's a good idea to sell biotechnology stocks now, ahead of the general election.
"Probably, going into the election, it's probably more speculation and hyperbole. After the election, it's probably where you want to start looking at buying biotech," Kelly said.
Trader Tim Seymour said that the "lack of clarity and lack of certainty ... are not helping here."
His advice is to look for relative value. For example, Seymour said "Gilead, against a Celgene, is an interesting trade, if nothing else, based upon [the fact that] one has underperformed, one hasn't on valuation."
"So make yourself essentially sector neutral, but find yourself a company that has underperformed," he said.
Just because George Soros is rich, famous and likes gold, doesn't mean it's time to sell. In fact, Jim Cramer is getting sick of hearing from negative billionaires.
"They aren't the stewards of your capital. They aren't the be-all and end-all. They are simply people with a worldview that they are sharing with the media, so you shouldn't be blinded by the billionaire limelight hoping it will shine on you," the "Mad Money" host said.
Cramer has done his homework on Soros and couldn't recall a time when he wasn't negative about pretty much everything. If someone is negative about stocks, it makes sense that they would want to own gold.
Often investors use gold as an insurance policy against economic chaos, because when stocks go down gold tends to rise. Cramer has always recommended that having some gold exposure is a good idea through either bullion, the GLD ETF or Randgold Resources.
In reality, Cramer thinks someone only needs to get rich once. There is no reason to take a chance on the next Facebook, Regeneron orAmazon if you are already worth $23 billion like Soros. Thus, owning stocks is crazy and risky.
That is why Cramer urged investors not to take the advice of someone just because they are rich. That kind of reasoning could easily lead someone astray.
Data on U.S. oil rigs could be interesting Friday afternoon, if they show another week of increased activity.
Baker Hughes rig data are released at 1 p.m. ET, and they come in a week where oil crossed $51 for the first time since since July 2015. At $50 per barrel, analysts have expected to see a return of some drilling activity, and last week's data showed nine oil rigs were added. That makes a total of just 10 new rigs this year.
"It's going to be a big deal. If there's a jump of double digits, it's going to be significant. Anecdotal reports show there's some activity in the Permian Basin, in particular, where the breakevens are about $35," said John Kilduff, partner with Again Capital.
It was clear to Jim Cramer that the market was taking a breather on Thursday. It was a dull session with nothing to trade off of and Cramer was bored.
With decent demand for commodities — a sign Cramer interpreted as being good global economic growth — and the Federal Reserve on hold, there wasn't much going on.
"There is only one problem with this benign market. You still need to feed the bull, and there just is not enough news flow to move the needle at the moment," the "Mad Money" host said.
So, Cramer went down the list of the stocks and events on his radar to gauge where they could be headed.
Just because George Soros is rich, famous and likes gold, doesn't mean it's time to sell. In fact, Jim Cramer is getting sick of hearing from negative billionaires.
"They aren't the stewards of your capital. They aren't the be-all and end-all. They are simply people with a worldview that they are sharing with the media, so you shouldn't be blinded by the billionaire limelight hoping it will shine on you," the "Mad Money" host said.
Cramer has done his homework on Soros and couldn't recall a time when he wasn't negative about pretty much everything. If someone is negative about stocks, it makes sense that they would want to own gold.
Often investors use gold as an insurance policy against economic chaos, because when stocks go down gold tends to rise. Cramer has always recommended that having some gold exposure is a good idea through either bullion, the GLD ETF or Randgold Resources.
Move over Google, Blippar's visual discovery technology could become the new way to search.
This week, CNBC released its fourth annual Disruptor 50 list of privately held-companies that have developed revolutionary technology to change the industry.
Blippar was No. 9, using technology to utilize what it calls "discovery behavior" through the use of augmented and virtual reality. The technology allows users to point their camera at nearly any object, and the app will recognize it and provide additional information about the object, including where to buy it and how it is connected to everything else in the universe.
Jim Cramer spoke with Blippar co-founder and CEO Ambarish Mitra, who said he believes there is a suppressed curiosity in human beings today. Often they walk around and are curious about such things as a flower, design or beautiful car, but don't take the time to find out what it is. Blippar could change that, especially for those who may not be able to read.
"Think about what it could be doing for the illiterate people in the world," Mitra said. "That's where our long-term vision is. To bring in a sense of knowledge powered in the world, and that is what this knowledge graph is doing."
Investors are searching for yield in this market, and Ladenburg Thalmann Asset Management CEO Phil Blancato is no different.
One area that is getting exciting is preferred stocks, he said in an interview with CNBC's "Closing Bell" Thursday.
"You look at the issuance there, it is increasing now pretty rapidly. You're getting solid yields and you get a dividend that is tax effective."
In fact, right now they are currently yielding roughly 4 percent above Treasurys, Blancato said.
For the "right kind of speculative investor," he suggests business development companies, or BDCs, which have a floating rate debt and are "somewhat secure."
Check out the companies making headlines after the bell Thursday:
H&R Block's stock bounced after the company upped its dividend amid better-than-expected earnings and revenue. The tax preparation company earned $3.16 per share, excluding items, on revenues of $2.3 billion. Wall Street was expecting $3.15 per share on revenues of $2.28 billion.
The company also raised its dividend by 10 percent. While revenues ticked down compared to the prior year, H&R Block has increased prices and improved monetization of do-it-yourself channels.
Harold Hamm, billionaire oilman, says the oil market is at a turning point, and he's taking important steps to get ready for the day when the U.S. will have to ramp up crude production.
Hamm, chairman and CEO of Continental Resources, appeared Thursday on CNBC's "Squawk Box" with a prediction that oil would rise to a lofty $69 to $72 per barrel — a leap above the then nonconsensus call of $60 he made on the program in January.
Hamm's year end forecast is also well above most current industry expectations, which have risen to around $60 at year-end. He said what's fueling his revised forecast is the faster-than-expected rebalancing of supply and demand.
"This rebalancing occurred early in the second quarter, not in the third. By the fourth quarter we'll have over a million barrels a day shortfall," he said, "In 2017, we could see the shortfall extend up to 2 million barrels a day undersupply. Because of that, we will see pressure on prices then and the undersupply comes primarily from light sweet crude oil."
Citing cutbacks by U.S. producers and the Nigerian disruption as some reasons behind the loss of supply, Hamm said the price differentials building in the world between sweet crude, sour and heavy oil could vary widely.
Until the capital markets open up and allow U.S. oil companies to spend outside of their cash flow, production will not increase and crude prices will continue to rise, Tapstone Energy CEO Tom Ward said Thursday.
"There's no increase in the capital spending, the debt side of the business is closed, and so until we have something fairly dramatic happen like maybe a doubling of the rig count, I don't think we can grow production in the U.S.," he said in an interview with CNBC's "Power Lunch."
Therefore, "I wouldn't be surprised at all if we saw above $60 or even $70 [a barrel] by the end of the year," added Ward, the co-founder of Chesapeake Energy.
His comments come on the heels of American oil billionaire Harold Hamm's prediction that oil will likely hit $69 to $72 per barrel by year's end.
We might be at the very end of this economic cycle, and the remarks by legendary investors Carl Icahn and George Soros signal it, said Jeff Rosenberg, BlackRock's chief investment strategist for fixed income.
"I think the message there is that this is a very late part of current cycle. Nobody knows how far that cycle will go, but it's clear that you're seeing many signals," Rosenberg said Thursday, on CNBC's "Squawk on the Street." "You're seeing them in the fixed income markets, you're seeing it in the credit markets, you see it in profits, in the equity markets — that this is the later part in the economic cycle."
Soros, according to The Wall Street Journal, came out of trading retirement with a series of very bearish bets, selling equities in favor of gold and gold miners' stocks. Icahn, meanwhile, said Soros' strategy made sense as equities had been falsely propped up.
U.S. equities traded mostly lower Thursday, while gold futures for August delivery rose $10.40 to $1,272.70 an ounce. U.S. Treasury yields continued to fall, with the benchmark 10-year yield holding near 1.67 percent.
Fear is on the rise and so is the price of gold.
Gold futures for August hit a three-week high Thursday, rising to $1,272.70 per ounce, just under a key resistance level of $1,275. The yellow metal is up about 20 percent year to date, and some high-profile investors — like George Soros and Stanley Druckenmiller — have made no secret that they see bad times ahead in the markets and gold is a safer bet.
"As far as the geopolitical element, it's certainly not a chicken little atmosphere," said Jim Steel, chief commodities analyst at HSBC. "I think there's enough uncertainty facing the global economy and even some geopolitical tensions to keep buying the gold market."
Investors believing they need to have gold in their portfolio as a hedge against the outcome of easy central bank policies and for other safety reasons are fueling a run in the metal. Some analysts say gold could easily climb above $1,300 an ounce.
In fact, DoubleLine Capital CEO Jeff Gundlach likes it, and he says gold could go to $1,400. Soros has reportedly been buying both gold and gold mining shares, while Drunkenmiller told investors last month to get out of stocks altogether and buy the yellow metal due to concerns about China's economy and the Fed's easy money policies.
Negative interest rates are creating financial turmoil around the world and opportunity in the U.S.
Investor money has been flocking to American federal, corporate and municipal bonds throughout the year but at an especially intense level in recent weeks as global central banks continue to cut rates in hopes of stimulating the moribund world economy.
Fixed income-focused exchange-traded funds pulled in a one-day haul of $906 million on Tuesday, part of $40 billion in inflows thus far in 2016, according to FactSet. Equity funds, by contrast, have seen $6.7 billion in outflows. The story is similar for actively traded mutual funds, where U.S. equity-based funds have seen $75.6 billion in outflows and bond funds, according to TrimTabs, have taken in about $53.6 billion.
The move comes as an increasing number of governments around the world show negative yields. The Japanese 10-year government bond was at -0.13 percent Thursday, while the German two-year yield was at -0.54 percent and Switzerland's 10-year yielded -0.43 percent.
Private banks over the past several days have threatened various measures should the move to negative yields continue.
In the U.S., money has been flowing across asset classes, with corporate bonds and municipals showing particular strength. Government bond auctions of late also have been solid, with Thursday's reopening of $12 billion in 30-year bonds producing its second-lowest yield in history. Bond prices and yields move inversely.
The big ETF winner in terms of total inflows has been the iShares Core U.S. Aggregate Bond fund, which tracks all investment-grade bonds across the government and corporate spaces. It has taken in $5.7 billion in 2016 and is up 3.1 percent year to date, which actually slightly trails the S&P 500's 3.4 percent gain. Over the past week, the iShares iBoxx $ Investment Grade Corporate Bond fund has pulled in just short of $430 million and has gained a solid 6 percent year to date, outpacing any of the major stock market averages.
The VanEck Vectors Gold Miners ETF traded higher Thursday after billionaire George Soros told the Wall Street Journal that he bought gold and gold miners on the back of a more pessimistic view of the global economy.
Fellow billionaire investor Carl Icahn told CNBC's "Squawk Box"  on Thursday that Soros' bearish bets have merit because the stock market has been artificially boosted by prolonged low interest rates.
The GDX ended the day up about 1.5 percent.
The gold miners ETF has been on a tear this year as investors ran to safe-haven assets in an uncertain global economic climate. The GDX is up nearly 92 percent in 2016, and 40 percent in the last year.
Gold, crude, stocks and bonds are rallying in lockstep, and that has created a very tricky trading environment, according to one market watcher.
"I don't think any of this is easy to trade here," Scott Nations  told CNBC's "Futures Now" on Thursday. "Everything seems to be tied to the dollar."
Nations said that while the stock market is tethered to a lesser degree to the dollar, oil remains a main driver for equities. "That means there's no way to pick out a unique setup that is moving on fundamentals and has some technical momentum we can take advantage of."
The market has seen explosive moves across many asset classes of late. In the last three weeks the S&P 500 gained more than 4 percent and climbed within a hair of its all-time high, while crude oil is up 7 percent in the same period, steadily trading above $50 for the first time since last July. These moves coupled with gold soaring more than 5 percent since the start of June and Treasurys sitting near year-to-date highs has Nations taking a second glance at the market.
"The fact that nearly everything is at or near a critical level" makes it difficult to trade, said the founder of NationsShares and a CNBC contributor. "It makes it like a coin flip, an expensive coin flip."
As a result of the unpredictability, Nations said he is reducing his positions and closing lower conviction trades right now.
Shares for Envision Healthcare Holdings, one of the largest outsourced physician service providers, spiked about 8 percent Thursday as news surfaced of a potential merger with AmSurg — another major provider in the industry.
The merger would increase operating efficiency and profit margins for the two companies, sources familiar with the matter told Reuters, at a time when consolidation among health insurance companies and hospitals places downward pressure on costs throughout health care.
The Wall Street Journal also reported on a possible merger between the two firms. Neither company immediately responded to CNBC's request for comment.
Envision and AmSurg's market caps were $4.8 billion and $4.27 billion, respectively, as of Wednesday's close. Amsurg's stock closed up nearly 4 percent.
While negotiations are confidential, Reuters reported an announcement about the deal can be expected as early as next week.
Thursday's spike put Envision shares on track for a 12 percent weekly gain.
Envision week to date
Shares of Vail Resorts rose about 3 percent Thursday after the company reported better-than-expected earnings.
The firm posted fiscal third-quarter earnings of $4.23 per share, beating analysts' estimates of $4.20 a share.
"Our Colorado resorts continued to deliver outstanding results, with growth in visitation and revenue above our record prior year. We did experience a modest decline in total international visitation compared to the prior year, however, we did see strong growth from Australia," CEO Rob Katz said.
The firm also said its resorts revenue rose nearly 14 percent on a year-over-year basis and raised its full-year guidance.
Vail Resorts 3-month performance
Shares of Restoration Hardware Holdings shed 21 percent Thursday after the company released its financial results for the first quarter.
The luxury furnishings retailer posted a loss of 5 cents a share Wednesday after the close, while analysts polled by Reuters expected a profit of 5 cents. Same-store sales also missed expectations.
CEO Gary Friedman said in a statement the team is being pressured "by the continued headwinds in the markets impacted by energy and currency, as well as a general slowdown in the luxury consumer market."
"In addition, the costs associated with RH Modern production delays and investments to elevate the customer experience, the timing of recognizing membership revenues related to the transition from a promotional to a membership model, and a more aggressive approach to rationalizing our SKU count to optimize inventory, are expected to negatively impact our fiscal 2016 adjusted diluted EPS outlook by approximately $0.90 to $1.00," he said.
Still, Friedman added he expects many of the cost and margin related issues to be short-term and that performance should improve in the fourth quarter and accelerate as the firm enters fiscal 2017.
Restoration Hardware's stock has struggled mightily this year, falling 64 percent.
RH 2016 Chart
Shares of J. M. Smucker surged nearly 8 percent Thursday after the food producer beat earnings expectations in its most recent quarter.
The company posted earnings of $1.44 per share in its fiscal fourth quarter, beating Reuters estimates of $1.20 per share. J. M. Smucker's quarter was also bolstered by a net sales increase of 25 percent, powered by the introduction of its Dunkin' Donuts-branded K-Cup pods, lower pricing for its Folgers coffee brand, and contributions from the recently-acquired Big Heart Pet Brands.
J. M. Smucker owns a variety of coffee brands and food products.
"We concluded 2016 with a strong fourth quarter, as the Company achieved record sales, earnings, and cash flow for the full fiscal year," Richard Smucker, the company's executive chairman, said in a news release.
Shares of the company have gained more than 16 percent in 2016.
SJM in 2016:

Shares of communications giant Vodafone fell more than 2 percent Thursday after revealing the merger of its New Zealand unit with Sky Network Television.
The merger was valued at $2.4 billion, but Vodafone will become a 51 percent shareholder of the combined firm.
If the deal succeeds, the new company will be one of New Zealand's biggest listed companies with annual revenue of about $2.1 billion, the companies said.
"This is a significant and positive step in SKY's evolution as a premium entertainment company. We already enjoy an excellent partnership with Vodafone, bringing together our two highly complementary businesses is in the best interests of shareholders and customers," Sky CEO John Fellet said in a statement.
Vodafone's stock has advanced about 5 percent over the past three months.
VOD 3-month chart
— Reuters contributed to this report.
Shares of Pandora rose Thursday after analysts at Axiom upgraded the stock to "buy" from "hold."
The stock spiked nearly 3 percent in early trading, before losing altitude. Pandora shares ended the day up 1 percent.
Analysts at the internet media equity research firm put a $16 target on the stock, roughly $4 above its trading price Thursday. Axiom analysts said they had been neutral on the stock for years, "skeptical" of the internet radio service to navigate an increasingly competitive landscape but recently changed their tune.
"We now believe that there is a greater probability of Pandora building a successful and differentiated on-demand service while increasing the value of the core," the Axiom note said. "Users' appetite for paying for music streaming is increasing and Pandora is poised to capture share cost effectively."
Shares of SolarCity briefly popped more than 3 percent Thursday as analysts at R. W. Baird said they saw long-term upside for the stock.
SolarCity shares later reversed and ended the day down about 1.8 percent.
Baird upgraded the solar power firm to "outperform" from "neutral," citing SolarCity's announcements of financing transactions, "which should help the balance sheet/liquidity argument, and we expect further project cost reductions to open new markets."
"We believe negative sentiment is overdone on one of the leading U.S. rooftop installer, and think shares are attractive at current levels," Baird said in a Thursday note to clients.
"Although bears have focused on NV Energy's decision to significantly reduce net metering benefits, NV may grandfather existing solar customers into the old NEM program, and the recent proposal by Solar Progress Partnership in New York provides a framework for long-term solar growth in NY."
SolarCity's stock has struggled mightily this year, falling more than 55 percent.
SCTY in 2016
Disclosure: Baird makes a market in SolarCity.
Shares of Fitbit rose 3 percent Thursday morning after analysts at Wedbush Securities began coverage of the stock with a positive view.
Wedbush initiated Fitbit with a "buy" rating and a price target of $18, saying "we believe that Fitbit shares are currently undervalued given a long runway remaining from an installed base perspective, as well as relatively untapped accessory, co-branding, and corporate wellness opportunities."
"We believe that these positive factors outweigh the risk of commoditization over the next few years and a seemingly slowing pace of technological innovation," they said in a Wednesday note to clients.
Fitbit is the leader by market share in fitness trackers, but has recently faced concerns over its products' accuracy. The stock traded near $14.50 on Thursday.
Entering Thursday's session, Fitbit shares had gained more than 6.5 percent over the past three months, but were still more than 50 percent lower for the year.
FIT year-to-date chartSource: FactSet
Disclosure: Wedbush makes a market in Fitbit stock.
When it came to footwear, Foot Locker used to be best of breed. Even when the shopping at malls began to decline, Foot Locker still rallied 15 percent in 2015. But ever since 2016 began, the stock has dramatically lagged the S&P 500, leading Jim Cramer to wonder what the heck went wrong.
Foot Locker's stock was hit hard when the company reported suboptimal results in May. It has traded sideways ever since.
"It is worth noting that even if some investors didn't see these disappointing results coming, the stock market certainly did," the "Mad Money" host said.
The first sign that there was a problem was when the company reported the quarter at the end of February. While management delivered a top and bottom line beat, the stock fell more than 4 percent on the news that management had seen low-single digit same-store sales growth, which wasn't included in the printed numbers.
Sure enough, when the company reported, it delivered only in-line earnings and weaker revenue.
Sometimes when it comes to the overall direction of the market, the stocks that really matter are under-the-radar. That is why Jim Cramer decided to highlight the stocks he is following to shed light on what is really happening in the economy.
"These building block characters, these stalwarts of the U.S. economy, are all flashing green," the "Mad Money" host said.
One stock is International Paper, a company reinventing itself with technology. Cramer considers this company to be a tremendous barometer of commerce; linerboard is a commodity that goes up in price when there is more shipping, and down when there is less. Thus, he uses the stock as a predictor for commodity pricing.
"The more International Paper rallies, the better you should feel about the U.S. economy, as almost 75 percent of the company's business is domestic," Cramer said.
The "Fast Money"  traders debated what securities are worth holding in an environment with little to no yield, after the yield U.S. 30-Year Treasury bond hit its lowest level since Feb. 12.
Trader Guy Adami said that he believes that securities that have rallied will continue to go up. He said that things like the SPDR Gold Trust and iShares 20+ Year Treasury Bond ETF, also known as the TLT, are "still a buy."
Trader Brian Kelly said he also bought into the TLT on Wednesday on the back of a very strong bond auction earlier in the day. Kelly said he also agrees with Adami on gold. He said he also bought gold and silver, like the iShares Silver Trust.
"If we have that inflationary type of scale or increase, gold and silver will do well," Kelly said.
With both oil inventories falling and natural gas running hot, Jim Cramer was taken aback by the staggering moves in energy in the past few months. Suddenly oil is trading above $50 and gas is approaching $2.50.
Do they make sense?
"Yes, even as this new level of pricing is more bullish than I thought possible, and I was a pretty lonely bull back when oil traded in the $30s," the "Mad Money" host said.
Cramer attributed the rally to the shortfalls of the big Canadian  oil shutdown caused by wildfires, and a pickup in gasoline consumption from driving more. Third, the dreaded increase in oil drilling that many expected would happen when crude tipped $50 hasn't happened.
More important, are the severe supply constraints occurring in both Libya and Nigeria. Chinese production has also fallen hard, even as Chinese auto purchases have increased. Autos represent one-third of all the oil use in China.
The private market is as strong as ever and the public markets are dead for start-ups and unicorns, venture capital investor Alan Patricof said Wednesday.
"The IPO market is no longer the real alternative for exits for … all our companies," the founder of Greycroft said in an interview with CNBC's "Closing Bell."
In fact, there have only been a "handful" of initial public offerings this year, Patricof pointed out. Instead, he thinks acquisitions are the best exit strategy for companies.
"I, frankly, am concerned for the unicorns that are out there today to really find an exit, because their only alternative is probably the public markets and the public markets are dead," Patricof added.
Sometimes when it comes to the overall direction of the market, the stocks that really matter are under-the-radar. That is why Jim Cramer decided to highlight the stocks he is following to shed light on what is really happening in the economy.
"These building block characters, these stalwarts of the U.S. economy, are all flashing green," the "Mad Money" host said.
Cramer always monitors the rails as a measure of the strength of the economy, because the cargo that they move such as chemicals, lumber, steel, oil and agricultural products touch almost every aspect of the manufacturing economy.
The four big players on Cramer's radar are Union Pacific, CSX, Norfolk Southern and Kansas City Southern, and they all carry the same cargoes, which help with comparison.
"The railroad stocks are like crystal balls. Even though many of these cargoes are down big, especially coal, even though CSX told a tale of woe about the need to reset expectations lower, the rails are on fire. These stocks have not only bottomed, they are leading the market higher!" Cramer said.
A long-held favorite on Wall Street, Apple has hit a few road bumps thus far in 2016. This week, the tech giant made headlines when it announced the decision to move the iPhone to a three-year product cycle, starting with the iPhone 7. Full model changes had typically occurred on a two-year basis with marginal upgrades coming in between.
More from Estimize:This food retailer is a good investment ahead of earningsCan this tax services company breakout on earnings?Don't get caught with these 5 stocks ahead of earnings season
The iPhone is a cash cow for Apple, currently accounting for two-thirds of the company's revenue in a given quarter. Adding a year to the current cycle won't do the iPhone, which has been in the spotlight for its recent weakness, any favors.
Big names like Amazon are betting on India and investors should as well, two experts said Wednesday.
The e-commerce giant announced Tuesday it will invest an additional $3 billion into its India operations, bringing its total investment in the country to $5 billion.
"You hear U.S. industrials talking about the opportunities in India and clearly India has replaced China," Tim Seymour, managing partner of Triogem Asset Management, said in an interview with CNBC's "Power Lunch."
He thinks it is a story that is only getting better.
"Inflation in India hasn't really structurally been this low ever. If there's one country in the world that benefits the most from low-commodity prices, it's arguably India. They are growing industrially."
T-Mobile U.S. boss John Legere loves a good marketing gimmick and his latest one may be the oddest and most endearing. The third-largest American mobile carrier rolled out a new loyalty program this week that rewards customers by giving them stock in the $35 billion company.
Swings in the stock market are foretelling moves in presidential polls, according to Tom McClellan, technical analyst and editor of the newsletter The McClellan Market Report. If you want to know who will pull ahead in the 2016 election, he said, look to equities.
"The stock market movements tend to lead the changes in the poll numbers by about a week," McClellan told CNBC's "Squawk on the Street" on Wednesday. "If you see a movement in the Dow or the S&P or your favorite index, you're likely to see the same movement show up about a week or a week and a half later in the poll numbers."
McClellan compared major U.S. indexes and polls from RealClearPolitics, and found that the two move in lockstep. He started comparing them in the 2000 election, and found that numbers become accurate when daily polling begins closer to November.
Former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton became the presumptive Democratic presidential nominee Tuesday night. McClellan pointed to the corresponding Dow Jones industrial average, which has moved higher in the past two weeks as Clinton gained ground.
"If the market moves up, that tends to benefit the incumbent in the last elections," McClellan said, adding that Clinton, the way the model works, is being viewed by the market as the incumbent.
"If the market bids up people tend to feel better about it, and if people are feeling good they like the guy who's in office more."
Joe Terranova, the co-leader in this year's Halftime Report portfolio competition and a former veteran of the Nymex oil pits, cautioned investors excited by this monster comeback in crude not to keep betting prices will go straight up from here.
But there's still a way to make money, Terranova revealed in an exclusive video for CNBC PRO subscribers.
Since closing at a 13-year low on Feb. 11, oil rallied more than 85 percent, piercing through the $50 mark this week for the first time since July.
Watch the video below to find out Terranova's investment strategy.
Crude prices may have hit new highs for the year Wednesday, but oil expert John Kilduff doesn't expect the rally to continue.
"There's been a spectacular run, no question about it, but I think we're at a point here where it's going to be hard to continue. A lot of headwinds," the founding partner of Again Capital said in an interview with CNBC's "Power Lunch" on Wednesday.
Kilduff, who has been bearish on oil, admitted he was "obviously wrong" in not anticipating the ongoing rally. He has been calling for crude's run to end for the past few months.
On Wednesday, U.S. oil futures settled up 1.7 percent, or 87 cents, to $51.23 a barrel. They hit $51.34, the highest level since July, earlier in the session. Global benchmark Brent crude futures rose 2.1 percent, or $1.07, to $52.50 a barrel, after striking a high going back to Oct. 12.
Hedge funds have been underperforming for a few years, and the Federal Reserve could be to blame.
Dynasty Financial CIO Scott Welch believes that some of the central bank's policies, coupled with investors' fears since 2008, have challenged the traditional hedge fund structure and limited many of the tools needed for these institutions to thrive.
"If you think of what drives hedge fund performance, you've got four basic things: You've got leverage, you've got illiquidity, volatility and then you have manager skill," he said on Tuesday's "Trading Nation." "You think about the events following 2008, and leverage and illiquidity became very unpopular with a lot of investors."
And according to Welch, quantitative easing from global central banks has removed volatility from the marketplace, and inadvertently robbed hedge funds of a key ingredient to their success.
"You have this environment where the tools that a talented hedge fund manager can use to try and drive performance just simply weren't available to them," Welch added.
Since the start of the Fed's first quantitative easing program in 2009, hedge funds have dramatically underperformed the broader S&P. As of May, the HFRI Fund Weighted Composite Index, which measures hedge fund performance, has gained less than 1 percent year to date. Over that time, the S&P 500 is up more than 3 percent.
The lack of performance has some investors pulling their money and questioning the high fees hedge funds chart. In a recent interview with CNBC, CalSTRS Chief Investment Officer Christopher Ailman said the traditional two-and-20 compensation structure was "dead" and that the hedge fund model was "broken." In the first three months of 2016, investors collectively withdrew $15 billion from hedge funds.
Still, Welch emphasizes that while investors could be questioning the fees they have to pay for an underperforming asset, hedge funds could actually see the light of day further down the road.
"The question is not necessarily if they're going to disappear, as to whether or not they're going to be able to maintain their fee structure," said Welch. "We're already beginning to see that in the U.S., at least trying to raise rates even if some of the other major central banks are not. Once you have that divergence of central bank policy, I think you'll start to see increased volatility in the market again."
In other words, skilled hedge fund managers could see the tools they need at their disposal once again.
Oil's chart is sizzling, even if its fundamentals are not.
West Texas Intermediate crude futures for July were trading above $51 per barrel for the first time since July 2015. Crude was higher on the weaker dollar, continued supply disruptions and as U.S. government data showed a drawdown in the nation's inventories.
Some of the factors driving the price higher may be fleeting, and oil is widely expected to come off current levels. But strategists say the charts are telling another story.
"This chart defies my own skepticism," said John Kilduff of Again Capital, who has been a crude market bear. He said the chart shows an "inverse head and shoulders" pattern — and a straight line up to where U.S.-traded WTI crude could reach the near-$62 level of last summer.
Apple is going after a piece of the $100 billion mobile advertising market and setting up an even deeper rivalry with Google.
According to a story from The Verge on Wednesday, Apple will "start showing search ads for apps in its iOS App Store search results for the first time." The news stemmed from an interview with Phil Schiller, Apple's senior vice president of worldwide marketing.
To date, mobile search has largely been a ported version of desktop search, with users going to Google and typing in some keywords.  With more mobile activity taking place in apps, traditional search loses relevance on smartphones.
Two-thirds of app downloads start with searches in the App Store.
Considering iPhones have over 1.5 million available apps, discovery is almost impossible for independent developers. Adding an ad-based search component gives developers a way to pay for access to consumers. Perhaps more importantly, it gives Apple a new way to make money with iPhone sales slowing and the company putting a greater focus on software and services.
Spending on mobile ads will surge 48 percent this year to $101.4 billion, according to eMarketer. Data from Net Market Share shows that in search on phones and tablets, Google controls 95 percent of the global market.
It's not that a Hillary Clinton presidency would do wonders for financial markets, but it would do less damage than a Donald Trump one, Nuveen Asset Management's Bob Doll said Wednesday.
Doll, Nuveen's chief equity strategist, said there are two main reasons why Trump would be worse for the markets than Clinton.
"One is uncertainty. Markets hate uncertainty. I don't think we know what [Trump's] policies are. Maybe by November we will, but we don't at the moment and we don't have a lot of back and forth," he told CNBC's "Fast Money: Halftime."
"The other reason is he's been very clear he's going to start a trade war with China, Mexico and a few other places, and we all know trade wars are not good for economic growth and, therefore, they're not good for markets," Doll said.
While the S&P 500 remains mired in a yearlong slump without a new high, a group of companies are rewarding investors with some healthy income. UnitedHealth was the latest Wednesday, raising its quarterly dividend payment by 25 percent.
With data from S&P Capital IQ, CNBC PRO first searched for the companies that have increased dividends by the most in 2016. Among those stocks, we then screened for the companies with dividend yields of at least 2.5 percent.
As a last step, we excluded any stocks that are down more than 10 percent year to date in order to avoid those names offering high yields simply as a function of their falling share price.
Here are the results:
Shares of Brown-Forman advanced more than 3 percent Wednesday after reporting better-than-expected fiscal fourth-quarter results.
The parent company of Jack Daniel's and Woodford Reserve posted profits of $2.60 per share on revenue of $933 million. Analysts polled by Reuters expected the company to post earnings of 72 cents a share on revenue of $899 million.
The company also reported full-year fiscal 2016, which CEO Paul Varga described as strong.
"Fiscal 2016 was another successful year at Brown-Forman. We delivered solid underlying growth in sales and operating income, led by the Jack Daniel's family of brands. We also made important changes to our portfolio of brands that we believe position us well for the long-term," Varga said in a statement.
Brown-Forman shares have advanced about 3.5 percent over the past year.
BF.B 12-month chart
CNBC "Halftime Report" trader Jon Najarian bought Gilead Sciences and Weatherford International for his model portfolio Wednesday in CNBC PRO's trading competition. Najarian's portfolio is up 13 percent year to date.
In the other model portfolio moves, the trader sold his Relypsa and AbbVie stakes. He also trimmed his Red Hat position.
Dave & Buster's Entertainment shares surged 10 percent Wednesday after the company reported better-than-expected quarterly results and raised full-year guidance.
Dave & Buster's, which owns and operates entertainment and dining venues, also announced the repurchase of up to $100 million in common stock.
The Dallas-based company reported earnings of 72 cents per share versus Wall Street consensus estimates of 59 cents a share, according to Thomson Reuters. The company's sales increased nearly 18 percent to $262 million versus an expected $251.42 million. Comparable-store sales increased 3.6 percent, down from a 9.9 percent increase in the same quarter a year earlier.
The company also raised its full-year earnings guidance to $1.85 to $1.97, about 15 cents higher than its previous outlook.
"Our unique entertainment, dining, and sports viewing venues are demonstrating their broad-based appeal despite challenges affecting many of our casual dining peers," CEO Steve King said in a statement. "We are off to a great start in fiscal 2016 with results that surpassed our expectations and are pleased to already be raising our annual outlook."
The company saw the largest non-comparable stores growth for any first quarter in Dave & Buster's history, which reflects the "growing impact of new store development," King said in the statement.
The stock is up more than 10 percent year to date and hit a new 52-week intraday high of $46.60. Shares of Dave & Buster's, which trade under the ticker PLAY, are up nearly 39 percent in the last year.
Verifone is taking a beating because of the slow adoption of EMV cards by businesses, and its latest quarterly results show that, CNBC's Jim Cramer said Wednesday.
"This has to do with the slow adoption of your chip-and-pin card, the EMV. Retailers do not like it," Cramer said on "Squawk on the Street." "The conference call was very bleak. They don't know when adoption is going to be … but they were ready, and I feel really badly."
The firm reported adjusted fiscal second-quarter earnings of 47 cents per share on revenue of $526 million. Analysts polled by Reuters expected the company to report earnings per share of 52 cents on revenue of $530.1 million. The company also lowered its full-year guidance and said it will reduce headcount to mitigate the damage.
"Q2 was a mixed quarter for Verifone as we grew our business, but experienced several difficult market dynamics," CEO Paul Galant said in a statement.
Verifone shares plummeted 24 percent on Wednesday. Over the past year, Verifone has lost over 42 percent.
PAY 12-month chart
LendingClub  shares rose 6 percent in Wednesday's premarket after the company announced tighter lending practices and word surfaced that ousted CEO Renaud Laplanche may be planning a takeover.
Reuters, citing people familiar with the matter, reported Tuesday that Laplanche has been in talks with private equity firms and banks about a potential buyout of the peer-to-peer lending company.
Laplanche was ousted last month after an internal investigation revealed staff knowingly sold $22 million in loans in March and April that did not meet the buyer's requirements.
The company said Tuesday it was cutting back on riskier loans and raising interest rates in an effort to make the company more attractive to investors. LendingClub expects loan volume to decrease by about 5 percent because of the new policy.
Canadian yoga-wear retailer Lululemon Athletica's quarterly profit narrowly missed analysts' estimate due to higher costs, a week after its founder Chip Wilson criticized the Canadian yoga-wear retailer's leadership for failing to keep up with market trends.
Wilson has said the company was losing ground in the lucrative "athleisure market" and called for annual election of the entire board to make directors more accountable for the company's performance.
Athleisure is a mix of athletic and casual clothing that has grown popular even in formal settings in the United States.
Lululemon, which competes with Nike Inc and Under Armour, also reported a slight drop in gross margin to 48.3 percent for the first quarter ended May 1 from 48.6 percent a year earlier.
The company's net income fell 5 percent to $45.3 million, or 33 cents per share.
Excluding items, the company earned 30 cents per share, missing analysts' average estimate of 31 cents, according to Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S.
However, the company slightly raised its 2016 revenue forecast and said it managed to bring its inventory levels under control.
The company said it now expected 2016 revenue of $2.31 billion-$2.35 billion, compared with $2.29 billion-$2.34 billion it forecast in March.
Net revenue for the latest quarter rose about 17 percent to $495.5 million.
The company's shares were slightly down in premarket trading. (Get the latest quote here.)
Advanced Micro Devices (AMD) is the semiconductor company that Jim Cramer once regarded as hated and left for dead. Suddenly it has risen from the ashes and has more than doubled since its January lows; prompting Cramer to find out if it is worth investing.
He turned to Bruce Kamich for assistance, a technician, professor at Baruch College and colleague of Cramer's at RealMoney.com. Kamich tends to be negative on stocks, but recently made a positive case for AMD, even as it seemed destined for bankruptcy not long ago.
AMD makes microprocessors for the declining personal computer industry, as graphics chips for computers and videogame consoles. The stock closed at $4.51 on Tuesday, while it was trading at just $1.61 in July of 2015.
"You don't see your stock fall below $2 if you are doing a good job," the "Mad Money" host said.
Sometimes it is hard for investors to see clearly what type of environment cultivates higher stock prices. With the averages headed higher on Tuesday, Jim Cramer went down the list of what makes this market so special right now.
"When you have the basics working for you, not against you, investors find reasons to throw money at the market. And right now it sticks on the stocks with the best international stories," the "Mad Money" host said.
The first positive sign Cramer pointed to was low inflation. Investors love low inflation, as that means the long-term value of stocks are going to be preserved. High inflation will erode value because earnings will have less purchasing power.
The employment number on Friday signaled to Cramer that there was no inflation in the system besides mandated inflation that comes from higher state and local minimum wages.
"Tame inflation means that all stocks are worth more, so even if you hear that the stock market is expensive,it might not be as expensive as it seems given inflation isn't eroding the value of the gains you get from higher stock prices of future dividend payments down the road" Cramer said.
When a market is led by airlines and oil, Jim Cramer is in heaven.
"It is probably too early to call a turn in the entire group, but I think it is safe to say that the worst is over," the "Mad Money" host said.
Airline stocks have remained very cheap in recent months, as many investors assumed that as the price of oil goes higher, airline margins will shrink. Thus, it is one group that is truly impacted by rising oil prices.
However, Cramer is seeing sudden signs of life again in the group. JetBlue announce price increases, while American Airlines  confirmed that it would change its rewards program in July to be one based on customer spending rather than miles.
"That is going to be a lot of income," Cramer said.
Although the Dow topped 18,000 on Tuesday for the first time since April 28, some stocks have been left out of the recent rally. About 6 percent of the S&P 500 stocks have posted negative returns from the February lows, including Chipotle Mexican Grill, Nike, American Airlines and Hormel Foods.
The "Fast Money"  traders debated which of these unloved stocks they would rather own. Trader David Seaburg said that he likes the airlines in general. "They're underowned. I believe that they're on their lows."
"Selectively, I'd be in [the airlines] and American Airlines being one of them, I'd buy it here," he said, adding that he also likes Nike.
Trader Guy Adami said that Hormel Foods looks interesting, especially when you look at its "absolutely parabolic" price action around the beginning of the year.
Trader Pete Najarian agreed and added that the "valuation got so stretched that it became very, very difficult, even with the great numbers, great results to take it down."
"I think you have to wait for the stock to get around 18 times forward earnings and then take a look, meaning it probably trades another $2 or $3 lower from here," Adami said.
Trader Steve Grasso said he prefers Under Armour over Nike, based on past seasonality. He also prefers Tyson Foods over Hormel, saying that they are "mirror images of each other." The former is up 14 percent this year, while the latter is down 13 percent.
In the airline sector, Grasso said he prefers Spirit Airlines to American Airlines, saying that "that one's up, American's under water."
Najarian said he is also a fan of the airlines. He said, however, that he thinks "it's a very difficult trade because it reminds me of the auto trade."
Rising oil prices are helping lead the market higher, and the good news should grow for investors over the next couple of months, trader Alan Valdes said Tuesday.
"I think you'll see this rally continue into the summer," the senior partner at Silverbear Capital said in an interview with CNBC's "Closing Bell."
His advice is to stay the course, but watch the market closely. That's because other than oil prices, the market is up on bad news like last week's disappointing jobs number, which could impact the timing of a Federal Reserve rate hike, said Valdes.
Stocks closed mixed Tuesday after rallying earlier in the day, with the S&P 500 closing at its highest since July 22. The Dow Jones industrial average briefly topped 18,000 in intraday trading before closing up .10 percent at 17,938.28 and the Nasdaq  ended slightly down.
U.S. oil settled above $50 for the first time since July.
Sometimes it is hard for investors to see clearly what type of environment cultivates higher stock prices. With the averages headed higher on Tuesday, Jim Cramer went down the list of what makes this market so special right now.
"When you have the basics working for you, not against you, investors find reasons to throw money at the market. And right now it sticks on the stocks with the best international stories," the "Mad Money" host said.
The first positive sign Cramer pointed to was low inflation. Investors love low inflation, as that means the long-term value of stocks are going to be preserved. High inflation will erode value because earnings will have less purchasing power.
Check out the companies making headlines after the bell Tuesday:
Under Armour's Class C shares dipped in extended trading after the company unveiled a new app, UA Shop, which gives users of digital platforms like MayMyRun customized results. The stock dip came in spite of the success of its sponsorship of Stephen Curry, whose Golden State Warriors are competing for an NBA title.
Shares of SodaStream gained Tuesday after Keurig Green Mountain said it was discontinuing its Kold product line.
SodaStream shares gained about 3 percent midday before losing altitude. The stock ended the day little changed.
Keurig's Kold system was a direct competitor of SodaStream in the home soda-making appliance market. A spokeswoman for Keurig told CNBC that it will be "offering consumers a refund for the full purchase price of their KOLD drinkmakers."
The machine hit the market in September and retailed for about $369.99, a price tag that analysts and consumers balked at.
The company also said it laid off 130 employees Tuesday, 108 of whom were in Vermont. Keurig said that the "majority of those impacted were employees on our KOLD pod manufacturing and related support team whose roles were impacted by our decision to discontinue our first generation Keurig KOLD system."
Keurig added that those employees will receive severance benefits and will be encouraged to apply to other openings within the company.
Keurig went private after being acquired by JAB Holding in December. The deal was closed in March.
It's one thing for a stock to have a good dividend, and another to know that it's going to be around in a year.
Commonly used metrics like the dividend payout ratio — the percentage of earnings paid as dividends — aren't very good at identifying whether individual dividends will disappear. But they can help investors pick out a handful of companies that will almost certainly not cut their dividends, according to a CNBC analysis.
One in five companies in the S&P 500 have unhealthy payout ratios above 100 percent, but fewer than 20 percent will end up cutting their dividends in a given year or the next year. More of those at-risk companies will actually raise their dividends.
On the other hand, companies with healthy payout ratios are much less likely to cut dividends and usually raise them, which was true even during the last recession.  That means companies with healthier ratios probably will continue paying during a worst-case market scenario.
CNBC "Halftime Report" trader Jon Najarian bought shares of Red Hat for his model portfolio Tuesday in CNBC PRO's trading competition. Najarian's portfolio is up 13 percent year to date.
Read below to find out why Najarian is bullish on the technology company.
Shares of Alexion fell Tuesday after the biopharmaceutical company said it missed its goal in a late-stage trial of the drug Solaris.
The stock ended the day down nearly 11 percent after the announcement, and has fallen more than 27 percent this year.
Alexion's drug Solaris is being studied as a treatment for a neuromuscular disease called Myasthenia Gravis, or MG, which causes patients to suffer muscle weakness that makes it difficult or impossible to perform daily activities like walking, talking, swallowing and breathing normally.
The study did not show a "statistical significance" from the baseline after week 26 of the trial, the company said. While it missed the primary goal, the study did hit targets on some secondary endpoints.
Joseph Papa has been busy. The new chief executive of Valeant Pharmaceuticals International went big with bad news on Tuesday, reporting weaker-than-expected first-quarter results and once again cutting the troubled drugmaker's full-year financial guidance. Part of it is the hangover of the recent debacles under former CEO Michael Pearson. The rest surely stems from the time-honored tradition of new bosses throwing in the kitchen sink.
GoDaddy's stock fell about 2 percent Tuesday after Citi analysts downgraded the stock, citing its valuation.
Citi lowered its GoDaddy rating to "neutral" from "buy, noting that the stock was trading within 4 percent of $34, "a level which it has been unable to hold in previous trading."
"Our 10-year [discounted cash flow] analysis, which assumes roughly 100bps of margin expansion per [year] and 1mn+ net customer additions through 2021, yields a $35 price target," they said in Tuesday note to clients.
"Considering these assumptions are in-line with the margin expansion (140bp) and customer growth (+1.1mn) seen in 2015, we see limited upside on a fundamental basis from current levels. Lastly, shares now trade at 13.2x our 2017 EBITDA estimate, a premium to GDDY's comp group," they said.
GoDaddy shares are virtually flat for the year, but have advanced more than 12 percent over the past 12 months.
GDDY 12-month chartSource: FactSet
Disclosure: Citi has received compensation from GoDaddy for investment banking services.
Shares of online real estate firm Zillow gained more than 5 percent Tuesday as investors cheered a lawsuit settlement with rival firm Move, which is owned by News Corp, and the National Association of Realtors.
The parties settled the suit for $130 million, according to a Securities and Exchange Commission filing, well below the approximate $2 billion Move was seeking in damages. Move was also seeking sanctions against Zillow over trade secrets and personnel.
Analysts at Barclays upgraded the stock to "equal weight" from "underweight" and raised their price target to $32 from $20 after the announcement.
"We were expecting either a negative judgment against Zillow or a settlement of at least $500 million, given an adverse inference instruction to the jury about evidence spoliation heading into the trial — so we view this outcome as highly favorable for ZG," Barclays analysts said in a Tuesday note to clients.
Analysts at Janney Montogomery Scott reiterated their "market outperform" rating and their $35 price target after the announcement, saying, "the settlement does not alter any of Zillow's business practices, is strictly monetary, and was settled amicably and with prejudice."
In their Tuesday note, they added, "With the suit now behind it, we believe the company can focus solely on the operations of its newer products and services, such as the Premier Agent Concierge (PAC), the updated Premier Agent app, and the pending national roll-out of the self-serve Premier Agent ad buying tool."
Zillow's stock has been on fire this year, rising 24 percent, and gaining more than 28 percent over the past three months.
Z 3-month chartSource: FactSet
Shares of Ralph Lauren dropped more than 2 percent Tuesday after the clothier detailed a restructuring that calls for job cuts and store closings.
Ralph Lauren also said it expects to incur charges of up to $400 million in fiscal 2017 because of the restructuring plan and an inventory charge of up to $150 million. "These charges are expected to be substantially realized by the end of fiscal 2017," the firm said, in a statement.
The company expects the plan to lead to a double-digit drop in revenue for fiscal 2017.
That said, the company says the plan should result in about $180 million to $220 million in annualized expense savings.
"We have assessed every value-creating component of the company and, with our Way Forward Plan, we will build on our strengths, refocusing on our core brands and instilling a financial discipline that is highly focused on return on investment," President and CEO Stefan Larsson said, in a statement.
Ralph Lauren's stock has fallen more than 15 percent this year and 31 percent over the past 12 months.
RL 12-month chartSource: FactSet
Apple sold a 30-year U.S. dollar bond in Taiwan at a yield of 4.15 percent, sources said on Tuesday, aiming to raise between $1 billion and $1.2 billion in the first issue of debt by the U.S. technology giant on the island that is home to major players in its supply chain.
The yield compares with a range between 4.2 percent to 4.3 percent ahead of its pricing, people familiar with the deal earlier told Reuters. At 4.15 percent the yield is well below that offered in recent bond issues in the flush Taiwanese market by blue-chip multinationals like Intel and Anheuser Busch InBev.
Billionaire investor Carl Icahn boosted his stake in Hertz Global Holdings to 15.24 percent as of June 6 from 14.34 percent reported earlier as of December 7, 2015, according to a Securities and Exchange Commission filing.
The car rental's firm's stock gained nearly 6 percent Tuesday.
Entering Tuesday's trading session, the company's shares were down 24.3 percent year to date and nearly 50 percent lower over the past 12 months.
HTZ 12-month chartSource: FactSet
Today I'm co-moderating the Singularity University's Exponential Finance Conference in New York, looking at the intersection between technology and finance and industry.
One of the most interesting speakers today is Marco Annunziata, chief economist of General Electric.
Big data is changing even the way old industrial companies operate. Digital technology has become more pervasive on the industrial side of the economy, and Annunziata has been in the forefront.
Call it the "Industrial internet" if you will. Take industrial machines from jet engines to medical equipment and turn them into intelligent interconnected devices. Suddenly, you are no longer just selling assets, you are selling services.
You can improve the performance of the machines. You can better predict when the machine will break. Their functionality can be extend, exchanged and improved. There are cost reductions, and more up time for the machines. Ownership of the assets become less important: they are part of a suite of services.
In more than 30 years of investing, Jim Cramer has picked up a lot of tricks of the trade to share. His goal is for investors to learn these rules and apply them without even thinking about it, just as he does. And while sometimes having discipline drives him nuts, it is the best portfolio protection out there on days when the market takes a nosedive.
One important rule for Cramer is to distinguish between when to buy a company's shares long after it has had a run and when to recognize a value trap.
When Jim Cramer first started out in trading, he didn't like rules. No one likes rules! His view was that either they couldn't really help, or they would cut his upside and prevent him from making more money. Over time, and after getting burned too many times, he learned the value of discipline.
"The rules protect you against your own bad judgment about what's going on at the companies you own or what's happening in the market overall," the "Mad Money" host said.
In order to really make money in the market these days, investors need discipline. Mistakes can be costly in trading, but if you do nothing with your money, you will have a whole lot of nothing to show for it.
So what is the magic trick to bail you out of a bad situation?
"Discipline trumps conviction," he added.
Find your own form of discipline to make sure you are watching your stocks and have a game plan for when things go wrong. For instance, Cramer has a system of ranking his stocks when things are good, so this way he can hedge himself when they go awry.
He also thinks it is important to be willing to "circle the wagons" on a few high-quality stocks, and be willing to buy them when they are down so you can get a better average price for your earnings.
When Jim Cramer first started out in trading, he didn't like rules. His view was that either they couldn't really help, or they would cut his upside and prevent him from making more money.
But over time, and after getting burned too many times, he learned the value of discipline.
"The rules protect you against your own bad judgment about what's going on at the companies you own or what's happening in the market overall," the "Mad Money" host said.
In order to really make money in the market these days, investors need discipline. Mistakes can be costly in trading, but if you do nothing with your money, you will have a whole lot of nothing to show for it.
Cramer constantly worries about the stocks in his charitable trust. One sign of danger for him is when the stocks in his portfolio go down when the market is going up. That is a sign to him that someone knows something he doesn't.
Tuesday I'll be co-moderating the Singularity University Exponential Finance Conference in New York. The event provides another opportunity to assess how disruptive technologies like machine learning, artificial intelligence, big data, robotics, and blockchain technology are influencing the financial world.
Just look at one area — big data analytics — and you can see the impact. Like all institutions, banks are awash in new data on their customers. They have information on loyalty cards, social networks, purchase data, browsing habits — an ocean of information. Using big data analytics, they can sift through this information more quickly, which has changed the way risk is priced.
That supports faster and more accurate decisions and has supported the rise of peer-to-peer lenders like Lending Club and Prosper.
Big data is changing even the way old industrial companies operate. Marco Annunziata, chief economist at General Electric, will speak on how GE is taking industrial machines from jet engines to medical equipment and turning them into intelligent interconnected devices.
Once again, I will be interviewing Ray Kurzweil, director of engineering at Google, and the co-founder and chancellor of Singularity University.
Given Ray's central role in the development of artificial intelligence and machine intelligence, and his key predictions on the development of that technology, I'm sure he will have a lot to say about the hoopla surrounding artificial intelligence and the somewhat apocalyptic comments about a machine takeover from Elon Musk and others.
One thing is for sure: The interaction between finance and technology, or "fintech," remains a hot topic. In a March 2016 report, Citigroup noted that investment in private fintech had grown from $1.8 billion in 2010 to $19 billion in 2015.
In more than 30 years of investing, Jim Cramer has picked up a lot of tricks of the trade to share. His goal is for investors to learn these rules and apply them without even thinking about it, starting with discussing the importance of strategic cash placement in a portfolio.
Much to his surprise, Cramer has found that a lot of people aren't prepared when a correction occurs in the market. They are charmed into the market when things are good and then unprepared when things get bad. They assume that a correction means that something is wrong and that stocks shouldn't be touched.
"That is a very big mistake. Corrections happen all of the time after big runs, and they are to be anticipated, but you can't write off the market when they happen," the "Mad Money" host added.
Another mistake that Cramer sees commonly is that many believe they are supposed to be fully invested at all times. He has even met money managers who think they are supposed to have all their money invested.
This is complete nonsense!
Jim Cramer sees a lot of investors freaking out when the market drops, which is why he has taken the time to reveal his top tricks to managing the damage to a portfolio during a decline. His tricks simply come down to one word — discipline.
While having rules in place is certainly not fun when it prevents you from making boatloads of money in a market rally, Cramer knows that it pays off. In the long run, discipline will control the damage to your portfolio when the averages take a nosedive.
A typical question that an investor will ask is what to do with a stock after it has had a hideous decline. The first response that Cramer will give is to ask why they bought the stock in the first place.
Why does he ask that? Because one of his cardinal rules is to never turn a trade into an investment. If there is one thing he wants investors to take away from "Mad Money," it is to never confuse these two concepts.
That means understanding the purpose of why you are buying a stock.
If you do an Internet search on the subject of purchasing an annuity, you will find that there are a mind-boggling number of articles on whether or not this is a wise decision.
Of course, the debate is complicated, and both sides make valid points. Those who favor annuities usually cite the guaranteed income they generate, which can act like a pension, while those against them will point to high costs and a relatively poor ability to generate higher rates of return, compared to other available financial products.
A partnership between financial technology company On Deck Capital and financial services software firm Intuit that generates business loans is supported by a fund also supported by both companies.
On Deck Capital and Intuit jointly own a limited liability corporation called Lancelot QBFOD, according to On Deck's quarterly filings. Lancelot is not mentioned in Intuit's most recent quarterly filing with regulators.
The fund is another example of how fintech startups are diversifying the sources that invest in their loans.
Lancelot is based in Delaware, according to documents filed with regulators. On Deck filings state that the company "acquired" a 67 percent interest in Lancelot in the third quarter of 2015. On Deck's filings state that 33 percent of Lancelot QBFOD LLC is owned by Intuit. That matches the time frame of On Deck and Intuit's partnership announcement, which came in mid-September last year.
"We consider it to be a successful partnership," a representative for On Deck Capital said, declining to provide specifics on the venture.
The transports have fallen 5 percent from their 2016 high, and if one classic theory holds true, the market could soon tumble with them.
On CNBC's "Options Action" Friday, top technician Carter Worth  said the recent underperformance in the transports could soon trickle down to other equities. The Dow Theory, as it is called, maintains that the market is in an upward trend if one of its averages, including transports, surpasses a previously important high. But the opposite could also hold true if one of the averages goes down, and he believes that such a drop may be on the way.
"Transports [have really been] dragging over the past two years," said the head of technical analysis at Cornerstone Macro. "In fact, the numbers speak for themselves [with transports] down 4.5 percent versus the S&P 500 [up 8 percent]."

This stands in contrast to trends seen starting from 1980. For more than 30 years, transports outperformed the S&P 500 by almost 50 percent while the market index continued its rise. This makes the IYT's two-year underperformance versus the S&P 500 significant as the transport ETF's reversal could mean the market is headed down.

Furthermore, Worth noted that the transports are butting up against downtrend resistance, and after a countertrend rally he believes new lows could be in the cards.
The transportation average was slightly lower Monday while the S&P 500 was up modestly.
Despite all signs from Fed Chair Janet Yellen that there will be an interest rate hike this summer, one trader insists the U.S. central bank is on hold, and that means good news for the commodities sector.
"You'll notice that after that disastrous 38,000 jobs added [in May], you saw big moves up in the commodities space and a move down in the dollar," Todd Gordon of TradingAnalysis.com told CNBC's "Trading Nation" on Monday. "That's reflecting the Fed sitting on the beach on their hands for the summer."
Gordon took a look at the market overall and identified the lead sectors kicking off the week on Monday. While the S&P 500 is up, he noted that the leading sectors in the marketplace appear to be industrials, materials and energy, with oil leading the way. Crude was up more than one percent midday.
The trend has Gordon willing to bet on the oil and gas production ETF (XOP) breaking through to new highs. More specifically, Gordon believes that the XOP is actually set to break above the $37 mark and has set $36.50 as the key level to watch for in the next coming days.

If the XOP does move to $36.50, Gordon predicts that oil will keep moving up.
"If we can get up to the $36.50 mark, it looks like XOP, along with crude oil, should be able to move up through the next several days," Gordon said.
AbbVie's stock sank more than 3 percent as a string of news weighed on the pharmaceutical company, including an analyst downgrade and a Wall Street Journal report about high drug costs.
Shares of gun stocks Smith & Wesson and Sturm, Ruger & Company stumbled Friday on reports that a background check system run by the FBI showed slowing growth in May.
Smith & Wesson, which designs, manufactures and sells firearms, fell more than 7 percent into the closing bell. Meanwhile, Sturm, Ruger's stock was down more than 4.8 percent.
Background checks from the National Instant Criminal Background Check System rose 2.6 percent in May versus 14.4 percent in April, according to StreetAccount. May background checks were reported 942,970 in May versus 918,710 in the prior year.
Has a friend or relative asked you to co-sign on a loan recently, essentially linking your good credit to theirs to get financing?  If they have, chances are it's been for an auto loan, a new survey has found.
Shares of Devon Energy rose 4.57 percent Monday after the firm announced it was selling upstream assets for $1 billion.
The company said it sold its upstream assets in east Texas for $525 million, as well as its non-core position in the Anadarko Basin's Granite Wash area for $310 million. Devon also sold its overriding royalty across 11,000 net acres in the northern Midland Basin for $139 million.
"Combined with other recent asset sales, we have now announced $1.3 billion of gas-focused upstream divestitures. As we've said previously, proceeds from these tax-efficient transactions will be utilized to further strengthen our investment-grade financial position," said Dave Hager, Devon's president and CEO.
Devon's stock also received a boost from rising oil prices Monday, as U.S. crude gained 2.2 percent to trade near $49.71 a barrel. Oil's gains also boosted the S&P 500's energy sector, which led the benchmark index with a 1.4 percent gain.
In 2016, Devon shares have gained more than 17 percent.
DVN year-to-date chartSource: FactSet
Financial technology companies have a curious request of regulators: how about a mulligan?
It's one of the things fintech start-ups pointed to when asked by the Treasury Department's Office of the Comptroller of the Currency for their ideas on how to bring regulation to the rapidly evolving sector. Big banks and tech companies also weighed in; much of the input Treasury received during its comment period came from fintech companies looking for broader inclusion on Wall Street.
Financial services technology firm Markit asked the OCC whether companies "have appropriate space to breathe, to develop and test innovative solutions without fear of enforcement action and regulatory fines," in a letter submitted May 31.
This isn't to say fintech start-ups are naïve about what is projected to be greater compliance expectations from regulators.
"As technology-based third-party relationships have taken an increasingly significant role for banks, the need for focused regulatory guidance has increased," Richard Neiman, LendingClub's head of regulatory and government affairs, wrote to the Treasury.
Joel Greenblatt, Gotham Asset Management managing principal and co-CIO, sat down with CNBC's Kelly Evans for an in-depth interview about how he selects winning stocks, value investing and how to assess the market today.
The hedge fund manager, whose annual returns in his first decade at Gotham in 1985 were in the tune of 50 percent, revealed how market participants can avoid value traps, along with his views on darlings stocks like Apple and Tesla.
Other topics in this special Value Spark interview include:
Goldman Sachs is in a tug-of-war battle with the rest of Wall Street when it comes to one of this year's best-performing stocks.
The firm initiated buy coverage on chip-maker Nvidia this week, citing potential for strong growth. The stock is up more than 40 percent in 2016, making it the best-performing stock in the S&P 500 technology sector. Despite the outperformance, it's still among the companies in the large-cap index with the highest percent of short interest.
So, who is right about Nvidia: Goldman Sachs or everyone else?
"When you have Goldman Sachs on one side of the seesaw and the rest of Wall Street on the other side, it's pretty fair," Dennis Davitt of Harvest Volatility Advisors told CNBC's "Trading Nation" on Thursday. "The thing that really jumps out to me is the short interest," he added.
Nvidia is within the top 5 percent of companies in the S&P 500 with the highest short interest, which leads Davitt to get short the stock via put options. "I think the stock will more than likely roll over, and that's what the options market is telling us," he added. He recommended buying the June 43-strike puts, which places the stock roughly 6 percent lower than its current price of around $46.
"The short interest itself can actually provide fuel for further upside," refuted Rich Ross of Evercore ISI. "If you look at the 50-week moving average, it's provided support along the way up until this explosive move," he said Thursday.
Ross explained that the stock is now trading 50 percent above its short-term weekly moving average, which he compared to a move up to 3,000 on the S&P 500.
"I don't think this is the most compelling entry point, but if you're thinking about shorting this stock I'd say hold on to your money," he added.

Shares of Nvidia were down nearly 2 percent on Friday.
The economic data has been poor this morning, though the market reaction has been fairly muted.
Are we once again at another failed attempt to hit a new high?
The bears have several arguments:
1)      Market is full valued (17.5 x forward earnings)
2)      Earnings and revenue growth remains negative
3)      Growth prospects are weak
4)      Macro risks:  Brexit, Fed, U.S. election
The close is very important today. We have moved up in the last hour every day this week. The full valuation would be a very logical reason to reverse that short-term trend.
The bigger issue is, will today's data be the start of reversing the longer-term trend:  that there is little alternative to owning stocks in a slow-growth, low-rate world.
That would take a bigger paradigm shift than just one day's economic data, but it's one the bears are already making.  They argue that central banks are losing credibility as low (and even negative) rates have less and less impact, and lawmakers seem powerless to enact needed fiscal reforms.
May ISM services came in at 52.9, below expectations of 55.5, with new orders at 54.2 from 59.9.  The employment component of the ISM report dropped into contraction territory at 49.7.
The May nonfarm payroll report, at 38,000, with downward revisions in prior months, was also a negative.
Not surprisingly, bank stocks have opened weaker as bond yields are lower.
The weaker dollar has been a help to commodities; base metals like copper and commodity stocks like metals are higher; energy stocks are mixed.
Overall, the pattern for stocks today is fairly typical of what you see when there are big misses in the jobs report.  Cyclicals like consumer discretionary and industrials are weak, defensive names like Utilities are flat.
Our partners at Kensho note that of the 31 times since 2006 when the jobs report has missed by more than 50,000, consumer discretionay and industrials underperformed and consumer staples and utilities did better, though both were down slightly.  In other words, the market typically become more defensive.
Going into today, the market has been holding up well.  The advance/decline line has been moving up.   Health Care has been a leader in the first days of the month, Tech was a leader in May, both healthy rotation from the Energy and Materials in prior months.
The Russell 2000, which has lagged the big-cap S&P 500 for a year, was at a six-month high.
The Nasdaq was at a six-month high.
And the S&P 500 was within two percent of an historic high.
The S&P so close to new highs has been the source of endless frustration for traders.  We have failed numerous times to hit a new high since the S&P hit an historic high in May 2015.
My message to everyone on this is, relax.  It's actually the norm.
Dan Wiener, who runs the Independent Adviser for Vanguard Investors, one of the best investor newsletters, noted in a recent report that since March 1957 the S&P 500 has spent 37 percent of the time within 5 percent of a new high.  It's spent 6 percent of the time at a new high.  It's spent 57% of the time down 5 percent or more.
Think about that.  The S&P 500 has spent 37 percent of the time within 5 percent of a new high. That means that all this angst over the inability to hit a new high is hand-wringing over perfectly normal market action.
CNBC Pro highlights the top-performing stocks this week and analyzes whether the good times will continue.
(The price change was calculated as of midday Friday so it is subject to change. If one stock led multiple indexes, we also profiled the second best.)
Shares of Avon Products advanced 4.7 percent Friday after analysts at Jefferies initiated coverage of the stock with a "buy" rating.
"AVP is early in a three-year transformation, but selling [North American business] to Cerberus alleviates cash worries, with remaining int'l business poised for greater growth. Scenario analysis points to favorable risk/reward, with base case suggesting shares could double by end of '17," they said in a note to clients.
Jefferies also placed a $7 price target. On Friday, the stock held near $4.20.
"Buying Avon early in its three-year transformation takes a leap of faith, particularly amid an opaque [short-term] financial outlook. Despite this, we like management's explicit list of priorities for '16 as it lays a road map to reach its very achievable [long-term] targets," Jefferies said.
Deere & Co. shares offer a great opportunity for investors on a potential agricultural industry upswing, according to Goldman Sachs.
"With demand at 30+ year lows, we see noteworthy risk-reward at what could be the turn in the soft commodity inventory cycle," Goldman analyst Jerry Revich wrote in a note to clients Thursday.
He added, "Deere is positioned to deliver strong operating leverage in a recovery."
Check out the companies making headlines after the bell Monday:
Staples shares tumbled as the company incurs charges after a merger with  Office Depot was blocked by regulators.
Shares closed Monday at $8.34 per share, near their 52-week low of $8.04. Last week, the company terminated merger plans with rival Office Depot, costing Staples a $250 million break-up fee.
Staples is slated to report quarterly earnings May 18, when it is expected to report earnings of 16 cents per share on $5.09 billion in revenue.
Treasury yields are behaving as if they are signaling a recession, but strategists say this time it's more likely a sign of something else.
The market has been buzzing about the flattening yield curve, or the fact that yields on longer duration Treasurys are getting closer to yields on shorter duration securities.
In the case of 10-year notes and two-year notes, that spread was the flattest Friday than it has been on a closing basis since late 2007. The yield curve had turned negative in 2006 and stayed there for months in 2007 before turning higher ahead of the Great Recession. The spread was at 95 at Friday's curve but widened Monday to more than 96.
The impact of central bank easing and concerns about international developments, like the slowdown in China,  may be what is really behind the move.
Shares of Anacor Pharmaceuticals spiked more than 57 percent Monday after it agreed to be bought by pharma giant Pfizer.
Pfizer is buying Anacor in a $5.2 billion deal to add an eczema gel to its portfolio, just a month after the U.S. drug major scrapped plans to acquire Allergan.
Anacor shares surged 57 percent to $100.67 Monday, above the offer price of $99.25 per share in cash. The net-of-cash deal value assumes conversion of Anacor's outstanding convertible notes, the companies said in a statement.
The deal dragged the healthcare sector higher, as a fund that tracks the industry saw its best day since May 9. Pfizer shares rose more than half a percent.
Stocks generally cheer economic growth, but a trend that's borne of stagnation and a meager outlook may actually be greatly supportive of equities.
Bond yields in the U.S. and around the world have been sliding all year, with the 10-year Treasury yield ending 2015 at nearly 2.3 percent and coming in around 1.75 percent today.
While this is partially due to a decline in perceptions of economic strength and expected inflation stateside, most market watchers see the global market playing a bigger role in the rate rout.
"It's really about the bond-buying programs in Japan and Europe, the negative interest rates that we're seeing making the rest of the world's bonds look so unattractive, and therefore people are piling into U.S. bonds and pushing those yields down," Erin Gibbs of S&P Investment Advisory said Friday on CNBC's "Trading Nation."
And to put bond demand in psychological terms, it may likely be described as a search for safety amid an uncertain economic environment.
"There is a shortage of safe haven assets," Gina Sanchez of Chantico Global said Friday on "Trading Nation." "The U.S. Treasury is one of those, and I think the need to buy these assets is really going to keep rates lower for longer."
Read More Investors flooding billions into this ETF may have unrealistic expectations
But just as (irrational) fear often begets opportunity, this dive into bonds makes buying stocks a more attractive prospect.
After all, the S&P 500's dividend yield is currently higher than the 10-year Treasury yield, a rare situation. While dividends are unlikely to be maintained in a worst-case economic scenario, a relatively rich dividend payout does grant a bit of a safety cushion to stocks. That is to say, if one thinks stocks will be able to show even a hint of the capital appreciation that they have typically provided, picking equities over bonds becomes an easy decision.
"As yields go down, people will also plow into U.S. equities because it's still going to be another attractive asset class," Gibbs granted, adding, "That's been making valuations high for quite some time."
Indeed, the current debate in the market concerns just how high valuations can fairly rise if bond yields stay low — particularly if growth continues to be elusive.
"We have seen great earnings and low sales numbers, and those sales numbers are telling us a story of no demand. If that's the case, then 19 times is way too high," Sanchez said, referring to the S&P's price-earnings multiple.
Still, there is no getting around the fact that low yields have been a serious tail wind for stocks. And if growth is sufficiently slow that the Federal Reserve does not see fit to raise rates this year, further tamping down on yields, stocks could continue to climb.
Another way of putting this? The famously topsy-turvy investing regime, in which low growth is bullish for stocks, may continue to be in effect.
Apple investors breathed a much needed sigh of relief Monday, as the tech giant's shares leaped higher after a $1 billion investment from Warren Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway. The news follows a tough couple of weeks for the tech giant, which has lost 10 percent of its value — or a cool $58 billion in market cap — since reporting earnings on April 26. For those looking to get long shares of Apple but may be hesitant to buy at current levels, one trader has a clever strategy to get in at no cost.
"This is a good opportunity to use options to get your money back, add leverage to an existing bet, or look out to October expiration where we know the next catalyst is, and that's the release of the iPhone 7," Dan Nathan told CNBC's "Options Action" on Friday.
Read MoreBuffett's Berkshire Hathaway takes new stake in Apple, ups stake in IBM
To do that, Nathan recommended a trade structure called a risk reversal. "There are three reasons why I would use a risk reversal looking at Apple right now," he said. The first being to define risk over a very wide range and period of time, the second is to seek leverage on a directional move and last is to reduce the amount of premium you pay, Nathan explained.
The specific trade that Nathan outlined was buying the October 80/100 risk reversal for even money. In this strategy Nathan bought the October 100 call for $2.50 and then to finance the call, he sold the October 80 put for $2.50, thus reducing his premium outlay to nothing. The goal is to have the Apple trade above the call he is long, or above $100 by October expiration.
Of course, there is one big catch in this strategy. By selling that put, the trader must be willing to get long Apple at that put strike price, or in this case $80. Typically, these trades will tie up a considerable amount of margin.
"I think that $80 is the floor for this stock," said the founder of RiskReversal.com. "The worst-case scenario is you get long at $80 or you get long at $100 at October expiration.
Can you dig it?
This year's best-performing exchange-traded funds are all gold plays. Among ETFs with more than $500 million in market value, the top dog is triple-leveraged gold miners product (NUGT), with an insane 315 percent rally. But nipping at its heels is unleveraged gold mining pick (GDXJ), which tracks smaller, or "junior" gold miners, which tend to be more volatile. That ETF is up 98 percent this year, outperforming its bigger brother (GDX), which is also a VanEck Vectors product.
What's incredible is that even after nearly doubling this year, the GDXJ is still down 73 percent over the past five.
The junior gold miners tend to be heavily levered to the price of gold; over the past five years, the GDXJ has a beta of 1.7 to the metal, which means that it tends to trade in the same direction as gold but with almost twice as much volatility. That compares to the 1.4 beta that the GDX has to gold.
Read MoreGold gains ground as dollar retreats
Also helping, according to Erin Gibbs of S&P Investment Advisory, is the Canadian dollar's rise against the U.S. dollar. The Canadian dollar's moves are significant, given that many of the companies in the ETF are Canadian, and a rising Canadian dollar helps their values rise in terms of greenbacks.
However, Gibbs warns that from a valuation perspective, the stocks have become "incredibly overvalued."
On the other hand, if gold stays on the incline, the miners should continue to perform well, and the junior miners should perform even better.
If gold "can bust through the $1,300 level, I think gold really goes to $1,350," Boris Schlossberg of BK Asset Management predicted Friday on CNBC's "Power Lunch." "That big move could really have a push on miners because they'll respond to a very positive move in gold."
It's difficult to take a material stake in Yahoo these days, said an RBC managing director, Mark Mahaney, on CNBC's "The Pulse" on Monday morning.
Mahaney — confident in the internet sector — voiced his skepticism over Yahoo amid news that Warren Buffett and Dan Gilbert had joined up to buy the troubled tech company.
CNBC "Halftime Report" trader Jim Lebenthal, who scored a big win betting on a comeback in J.C. Penney shares earlier in the year, stepped into the name again Monday after fresh worries of slowing apparel sales growth cut the stock by a third from its highs.
The CEO of Lebenthal Asset Management is up 8 percent this year in his CNBC Pro trading contest model portfolio.
In another move, Jon Najarian bought Juniper Networks for his model portfolio.
Here's what Lebenthal sees and why he thinks the stock can rally from here again.
Shares of oil and gas companies climbed Monday as crude prices neared November highs.
Marathon Oil shares rose 4.3 percent to $12.78, while Murphy Oil, Apache and Transocean were more than 2 percent higher. It came as West Texas Intermediate prices hit $47.72 a barrel and Brent Crude prices hit $48.97, both topping six-month highs.
Natural gas companies like Devon Energy and Williams also popped.
"The oil market has gone from nearing storage saturation to being in deficit much earlier than we expected," Goldman Sachs said in a research note, reversing its views on the commodity.
Investors get distracted constantly by economic data, politics and other noise, but there's only one thing that matters to stock prices: profits, according to veteran strategist Richard Bernstein, who shared this and many other facets of his investment philosophy during an in-depth interview for CNBC Pro.
The CEO of Richard Bernstein Advisors, a 30-year veteran of Wall Street and one of its most widely followed analysts, also revealed to CNBC's Michael Santoli:
Too many active money managers are managing too much money today, and investors are paying the price, AB Chairman and CEO Peter Kraus said Monday.
Open architecture — the option that allows a firm's clients to invest in investment vehicles offered by competitors — has created too many options, he said. Now, clients chase after managers who have outperformed over three- to five-year windows, he said.
The problem is they consistently buy into managers when their hot streak is about to turn cool.
"We know by looking at the numbers that, in fact, people sell at the wrong time and buy at the wrong time, and that costs them on average between 1.5 percent to 2 percent a year, which is a huge expense," Kraus told CNBC's "Squawk Box."
It's been just about a year since stocks last hit a record high. And it's hard to find anyone who's in a mood to celebrate the anniversary.
Bullish investors are left with little more than "It could've been worse," while the bearish crowd huffs, "It should have been worse."
The Standard & Poor's 500 is down just 3.9 percent from its closing high of 2,130 last May 21, not counting about 2 percent in dividends. Two waves of heavy selling took the index down by as much as 14 percent from that record level by early February, before the rebound carried it to within 2 percent of the old peak a month ago.
Corporate profits have been in decline, sliding in each of the last four quarters. At the time of the market's record high, the projection for S&P 500 profits over the next 12 months was $125.37 a share. They've fallen short of that by more than 7 percent, thanks largely to energy, industrials and financials.
Jim Cramer has discovered a new pattern to the stock market, where entire sectors are under fire instead of individual stocks.
Typically in the first day of a sell-off, stocks under fire in a sector would get crushed. Buyers would then step in and sift through the rubble to decide what's worth buying again. Usually it would take days or weeks for this process to occur.
Not anymore.
"I think it's because of the commoditization by sector that has gone on in the stock market," the "Mad Money" host said.
Check out which companies are making headlines before the bell:
Apple — In its latest 13F filing, Berkshire Hathaway revealed a new 9.8 million share stake in Apple, as well as an increased stake in IBM. It also reduced its stake in Wal-Mart Stores and eliminated its stake in AT&T.
Anacor Pharmaceuticals — The drugmaker will be bought by Dow component Pfizer for $5.2 billion in cash, or $99.25 per share. That's well above Anacor's Friday close of $64.03.
Tribune Publishing — Gannett has increased its bid for Tribune to $15 a share in cash from the prior $12.25 per share, after reviewing Tribune's latest quarterly filing.
Range Resources — The oil and natural gas producer will buy Memorial Resource Development in an all-stock deal valued at $4.4 billion. Memorial shareholders will get 0.375 Range Resources shares for each share they now hold, giving them a value of $15.75 per share. That's 17 percent above Friday's closing price.
J.C. Penney — Baird upgraded the retailer's stock to "outperform" from "neutral," saying a 30 percent pullback from its March highs presents an attractive risk/reward profile. Baird said there is a "credible turnaround story" unfolding at J.C. Penney.
Bank of America — The bank's shares were downgraded to "market perform" from "outperform" at Keefe Bruyette & Woods, which called BofA a "quality" banking franchise but said it needs to do more to improve returns and drive shareholder value.
Alphabet — Alphabet's Google unit reportedly faces a record $3.4 billion European fine. That's according to the Sunday Telegraph newspaper, which said the fine will be assessed in the next several weeks and relates to alleged promotion of Google's shopping service in internet searches at the expense of rivals.
Terex — Terex will sell its Material Handling and Port Solutions unit to Finland's Konecranes for $1.27 billion, in a deal that cancels the all-stock merger agreement that the two crane makers struck last August. Terex becomes a 25-percent shareholder in Konecranes and retains its ability to talk to rival suitors.
Williams Cos. — Williams filed a lawsuit against Energy Transfer Equity in an attempt to save a prior merger agreement between the two. The two pipeline companies struck a $33 billion merger deal last September, but Energy Transfer wants to terminate the agreement over doubts about certain tax issues.
Amazon.com — Amazon plans to roll out private label food brands over the next several weeks, according to The Wall Street Journal.
Facebook — Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg  will meet with conservative leaders this week to address allegations of political bias in Facebook newsfeed stories.
Walt Disney — Disney's "Captain America: Civil War" remained atop the weekend box office by taking in $72.6 million in North American ticket sales in its second weekend of release. That ranks as the eighth largest second weekend of all time.
Yahoo — Quicken Loans founder Dan Gilbert is involved in a consortium bidding for Yahoo's core internet assets, and Berkshire Hathaway's Warren Buffett tells CNBC he's willing to back Gilbert's group with financing under the right terms.
Apple — Apple Chief Executive Officer Tim Cook is in China today, visiting with high level government officials in a critical market for the company.
Johnson Controls — The company's auto parts business Adient — which it will spin off in October — will be headquartered in London. That's the result of a planned merger between Johnson Controls and Tyco International, which resulted in a restructuring of the planned spinoff.
Caesars Entertainment — An affiliate of the bankrupt casino operator is considering a sale of its mobile game business, according to The Wall Street Journal, in a sale that could bring in more than $4 billion.
Microsoft — Microsoft is considering a sale of its Nokia mobile phone brand to Foxconn, according to tech website VTech, as it overhauls its mobile business.
The S&P 500 posted its first three-week losing streak since January. Which stocks could power a comeback this week?
Using Kensho, a quantitative analytics tool used by hedge funds, we found the stocks with the best setup for upside or downside based on historical statistics. We looked for oversold stocks due for a rise that are trading much lower than their 50-day moving average. Conversely, we searched for overbought stocks ready for a fall because they are trading way above their 50-day moving average.
Here are the oversold stocks. The table below shows the S&P 500 stocks with the best chances to move higher over the next few days based on their history of trading at similarly oversold levels. The first column is the number of standard deviations below the stock's 50-day moving average. The second column is the stock's track record over the next few days after falling into this range.
The market is underestimating the Federal Reserve's willingness to hike interest rates at its meeting next month, strategists told CNBC on Monday.
"We think chances are higher than what market probability is currently," Kristina Hooper, U.S. investment strategist at Allianz Global Investors, told CNBC's "Squawk Box."
"We think there's a potential for negative surprise."
The market currently believes there is just a 4 percent chance the Fed will move in June, according to the CME FedWatch tool, which tracks 30-Day Fed Fund futures prices.
U.S. bank Goldman Sachs, one of the most bearish forecasters on oil over the past year, on Monday raised its short-term price outlook as it said the market had flipped into a deficit due to production outages in Nigeria and Canada.
Goldman, one of the most active banks in commodities, had been predicting as recently as a few months ago that oil prices could fall below $20 a barrel due to global oversupply.
On Monday, it said it now saw U.S. crude trading as high as $50 per barrel in the second half of 2016, although it cautioned that price rises would be modest in 2017 as the market would return to surplus.
Warren Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway  has taken a new stake in Apple and upped its holdings in IBM, according to a Securities and Exchange Commission filing Monday.
Berkshire portfolio managers Todd Combs and Ted Weschler, who each invest about $9 billion, made the investments.
Berkshire's new stake in Apple totaled 9.8 million shares, while the company boosted its shares of IBM by 198,853 to 81.2 million shares. Shares of Apple were up 4 percent in afternoon trading. (Get the latest quote here.)
"I think this is basically an example of how there's a transition going on in Berkshire Hathaway," Vahan Janjigian, chief investment officer of Greenwich Wealth Management, said on CNBC's "Power Lunch" on Monday.
"For years, this company has been run by Buffett and [Charlie] Munger. ... What's going on especially with the Apple investment today is that Weschler and Combs are taking over the investment decision-making process."
Warren Buffett struck media gold with a 2012 investment in debt-laden Media General Inc. Now the famed investor may try to reprise that success by supporting a bid for Yahoo's internet assets.
The Berkshire Hathaway Inc chairman is backing a consortium that includes Quicken Loans Inc founder Dan Gilbert, that is seeking to buy Yahoo's online portfolio, Reuters reported on Friday.
The consortium is in the second round of bidding in the auction for Yahoo's assets, people familiar with the matter said. Buffett is helping to finance the offer, one of the people added.
If they succeed, the investment would be a relatively rare foray into digital media for Buffett, whose portfolio is heavily weighted toward U.S. insurers, industrial companies and major consumer brands.
Yahoo, once the world's largest consumer email service, has struggled in recent years to compete with Alphabet Inc's Google and Facebook Inc for digital advertising market share.
In February, CEO Marissa Mayer announced the company would auction off its Internet business and cut 15 percent of its workforce. It is also selling $1 billion to $3 billion in noncore assets such as patents and property.
Poynter Institute media business analyst Rick Edmonds said Buffett's history of betting on struggling companies that maintain a large consumer base could work in Yahoo's favor.
In the case of Media General, Buffett bought a majority of the company's newspapers, making him one of the largest publishers in the United States as the industry struggled with plummeting advertising and subscription revenue.
When investing for retirement, Jim Cramer wants you to remember that there is no such thing as a get-rich-quick scheme. That is why he advised that most reliable way to make money grow is to do so slowly and with prudence.
But too much caution is also bad news as well.
So, when it comes to retirement, Cramer does not want investors to hide their money and cling to safety with the assumption that there will be enough money to retire. A little risk in stocks with higher returns will ensure a wealthy retirement.
Conventional wisdom teaches that investors need to reduce as much risk as possible when investing retirement money. However, Cramer disagrees.
"When you, either in your 401(k) or your IRA or just your discretionary investing account, put money into things like Treasury bonds or stable value funds, you're effectively taking that money off the table. You're saying, this money — I'm not going to use it to generate more wealth, I just want to keep it safe," the "Mad Money" host said.
If you are like most investors and are banking on a 401(k) plan for retirement, Jim Cramer wants you to listen up. What some people consider to be the holy grail of retirement savings could have some serious flaws.
"Your 401(k) is important, but it has its downsides — plenty of them," the "Mad Money" host said.
So, while Cramer does think that it is important to contribute to a 401(k), he is not part of the crowd that thinks you should max out the limit.
The biggest benefit to a 401(k) plan is that an employer will match at least some percentage of contributions up to a certain point. That's free money, which only a fool would not take advantage of.
Nvidia shares spiked 15 percent Friday after the chip-maker posted earnings and guidance well-above analysts' estimates.
Earnings beat consensus by one cent, coming in at 33 cents per share for the first quarter. The chip-maker's profit was up 46 percent from a year earlier, thanks to strong demand and video game players' willing to pay more for high-quality images, the company said.
Shares of Western Digital fell more than 2.5 percent Friday after Bank of America Merrill Lynch downgraded the stock to "underweight" from "overweight."
The bank also cut its price target on the stock to $30 from $61, citing near-term risks for Western Digital's earnings due to the quick erosion of the hard disk drives market.
Bank of America said in a Friday note to clients:
"We could see further risk to numbers if (1) average selling price (ASP) for NAND Flash declines faster on competitive pricing, (2) the Japanese Yen gets stronger vs USD (i.e. higher NAND manufacturing cost), (3) our royalty renegotiation assumptions are not conservative enough (22% decline Y/Y), or (4) HDD demand continues to deteriorate."
The bank downgraded the stock a day after Western said it had completed the acquisition of SanDisk, which was first announced last year.
CNBC Pro highlights the top-performing stocks this week and analyzes whether the good times will continue.
(The price change was calculated as of Friday morning, so it is subject to change. If one stock led multiple indexes, we profiled the second best, too.)
"Halftime Report" traders made a flurry of moves in their CNBC Pro model portfolios in the back half of the week as the choppy market continues to frustrate money managers trying to beat the S&P 500.
Four of the seven "Halftime" portfolio participants are beating the S&P 500 this year, including Terranova, who is up 12 percent. Najarian's portfolio has risen 9 percent.
Here's why Najarian and Terranova made their moves.
One strategist is maintaining his fairly optimistic outlook despite the looming risks of events in June like a possible British exit from the European Union or a surprise rate hike from the Federal Reserve.
Jonathan Golub, chief U.S. market strategist at RBC Capital Markets, told CNBC's "Squawk on the Street" that while the economic data has not been entirely positive, it doesn't mean that the U.S. economy is doing poorly.
"The economy, as the data's showing, is tepid but absolutely not recessionary," Golub said on Friday.
"I think when you look towards the latter part of the year, you'll see earnings pickup as the headwinds from energy roll away," he added.
Crude is poised to go lower, said oil expert John Kilduff, whose bearish calls on the commodity have been dead on.
"I don't see this market coming into balance until at least Q1 of 2017, if not later," Kilduff told CNBC's "Worldwide Exchange" on Friday, a day after the International Energy Agency said global oil markets are heading toward a long-awaited equilibrium.
OPEC on Friday warned oversupply still persists. The cartel meets again on June 2.
Since the Feb. 11 bottom, West Texas Intermediate crude, the American benchmark, has surged about 70 percent. But WTI is still off more than 50 percent since June 2014 highs of around $114 per barrel.
While the market seems to be in a bullish mode right now, there are three bearish factors being ignored, according to Kilduff, founding partner of Again Capital.
First, he believes the dollar will continue to weigh on oil prices. "I think the currency headwind is going to emerge, there's no way the dollar can stay this low versus some of these major currencies going forward."
Oil is traded in dollars, so when the greenback moves higher it puts the squeeze on foreign buyers.
Even though markets are trading in a narrow range, traders are fixated on a potentially important level in the S&P 500.
"The major indices — SPX, OEX, INDU, RTY — are testing their 50-day moving averages, which sometimes act as support, so today's action will be telling," BTIG Chief Technical Strategist Katie Stockton said in a morning note Friday.
U.S. stocks traded narrowly mixed Friday morning, wrapping up a volatile week that saw the Dow's worst day since February and its best day since March. While disappointing retailer earnings renewed concerns about U.S. economic growth, traders said the existence of many crosscurrents in the market puts greater focus on technical levels.
Oil giant ExxonMobil is set to break to new highs thanks to the crude-oil bounce, one technically minded trader argues.
"It looks like Exxon is struggling with the $90 region here," Todd Gordon of TradingAnalysis.com said Wednesday on CNBC's "Trading Nation." "The market is pulling back and it looks like we're set to toggle back to that $90 level. [But] if crude can go higher, I think Exxon is set to break that $90 region."

The key, according to Gordon, is in crude's rally. Looking at the USO, the crude oil ETF, Gordon pointed out that with two rapid upswings in succession, it looks as though oil is set to move back up after falling last week.
"The first [rally] topped out at about $11 in the ETF, we set back, then have begun the next rally," he said. "A technical target would be the distance traveled in the first round. The yellow line [in the above chart] highlights that, which is right around the $12 region [and] corresponds to a move back into the upper 40s for crude oil."

To take advantage of a potential uptrend, Gordon said he would buy Exxon's June 90-strike call, and sell the 95-strike calls, to create a bullish call spread. To do so, he is paying $1.44 per share.
If crude does rally and Exxon breaks through $95, Gordon is set to make a maximum of $3.53 per share. The payout is just over 2 to 1, making it a worthwhile trade in Gordon's eyes despite the potential for a drop in crude.
"If we don't start moving here very soon and if we start breaking below the $89 level, I'm going to move out of this trade to control risk," he said. "Otherwise, we should be fine in the upside in Exxon."
Read MoreExxon doesn't look like an oil company anymore, RayJay analyst says
Mark Zuckerberg is hosting a summit for conservative leaders on Wednesday.
So says Glenn Beck, who says he will attend. "It would be interesting to look him in the eye", Beck writes — on Facebook.
This is presumably what Zuckerberg had in mind last week, when he said he would be "inviting leading conservatives and people from across the political spectrum to talk with me" in the wake of a Gizmodo story alleging that Facebook suppressed news items about conservative topics, or from conservative publications.
"Mark wanted to meet with 8 or ten of us to explain what happened and assure us that it won't happen again," Beck writes.
Facebook has since argued, over and over, that the suppression charge isn't true — or, at least, that it doesn't have any evidence that it's true — but the story continues to have legs.
Read more from Recode:
Sheryl Sandberg just gave an incredible, emotional speech to college gradsAfter three weeks in China, it's clear Beijing is Silicon Valley's only true competitorFacebook is using Apple’s playbook for virtual reality. Google is using Google’s.
To all you department store critics who argue these "dinosaurs" are all the same, boring shops that give you no reason to get off the couch: J.C. Penney hears you loud and clear.
On a call with analysts following its mixed first-quarter results, which sent the company's shares lower, CEO Marvin Ellison outlined how the retailer is positioning itself to connect with a new era of shoppers, whom many argue are no longer interested in visiting department stores.
That strategy includes lessening the company's dependence on weather-sensitive categories such as apparel, and beefing up its offerings in areas that can't easily be replicated online or duplicated by others in the space. Namely, Penney is expanding its Sephora shop-in-shops, accelerating its InStyle beauty salon rollout, and pushing forward with its tiptoe into appliances.
Beauty products are a key initiative for driving store traffic because cosmetics can't be tested online, not to mention that it's impossible for a computer to give you a hair cut. Beauty items also require frequent replenishment. As for appliances, Ellison argues consumers don't care what the thermometer reads when it comes time to purchase a new stove or refrigerator, which will help protect the company from wild weather-related swings.
Allergan rose more than 3 percent Friday after Goldman Sachs released a very bullish note on the stock.
The bank added Allergan to its "Conviction List" as the company has a number of catalyst ahead that have it "primed for growth."
Goldman said in a Friday note:
"Our increased confidence is based on 1) a sharpened business model focused on branded growth pharma; 2) a reloaded balance sheet poised to de-lever from 4X to 1.5X post-TEVA; 3) $10 billion share repo authorization sending a clear signal of management confidence; 4) a double digit topline growth outlook based on volume-driven durable assets including differentiated new products; 5) a rich pipeline with ~70 unique assets featuring several first-in-class and/or best-in-class candidates."
Shares of Shake Shack spiked nearly 10 percent Friday, extending gains after the company reported better-than-expected-quarterly results and raised its full-year guidance.
The burger franchise's stock was up as much as 9 percent in after-hours trading Thursday. Shares closed at $37.60, topping their prior 52-week high of $37.20.
Nordstrom shares fell more than 13 percent Friday after the company's first-quarter results missed the mark with Wall Street.
The company posted fiscal first-quarter earnings of 26 cents per diluted share on $3.25 billion in revenue. Profit fell from 66 cents per share in the prior-year period, while sales rose slightly from $3.22 billion.
Wall Street expected Nordstrom to report earnings of 45 cents per share on $3.28 billion in sales, according to a Thomson Reuters consensus estimate.
At Friday's close, Nordstrom's stock had fallen more than 21 percent in 2016, and nearly 49 percent in the past year. The stock hit its lowest level since August 2011.
JWN in past 12 monthsSource: FactSet
In honor of Friday the 13th and all of those with Paraskevidekatriaphobia out there, we want to know if there are any trades in Friday's market that you really fear.
It could be the fear of buying a stock, or not buying a stock? Perhaps it's a fear of selling something you already own, or not selling something before it heads markedly lower?
Take our poll below and let us know in the comments what you're trading (or not) in this market.
One of Wall Street's most closely followed strategists has a message for investors: Stop worrying!
"We're going to break through and head up to new highs," said Jim Paulsen on CNBC's "Futures Now" on Thursday when discussing why the S&P 500 will hit 2,200. Paulsen noted that the constant fears over the economic slowdown in China, the oversupply of oil and even concerns over who the next president will be are clouding the marketplace and creating unnecessary jitters on Wall Street. "Climbing a wall of worry is back and is likely to push us up into new highs and generate a little optimistic excitement again." Paulsen's 2,200 price target on the S&P 500 represents a more than 6 percent rise from where the large-cap index is currently trading around 2,064.
Read MoreThis rare earnings bright spot could send stocks soaring
The chief investment strategist for Wells Capital Management said that strong employment and wage growth, the ending of a grim earnings season and reduced deflationary fears worldwide thanks to rising oil prices make him adamant that the best is yet to come for stocks. However, he did say the Fed's dovish approach could be the one thing that could potentially derail growth in 2016.
"They're keeping us as the start line of their tightening cycle," Paulsen said when discussing the Fed's delay since raising rates for the first time in seven years back in December of 2015. "It's like pulling a Band-Aid off a little bit at a time, rather than just ripping it off and letting the markets adjust."
Paulsen concluded that the Fed can always reference a global issue as reasoning for not raising rates, but that the central bank needs to avoid keeping the U.S. economy in limbo.
"I'm amazed they've stayed as long as they have with this policy," said Paulsen. "They continue to come up with reasons not to raise rates. A 'Brexit' being the most recent one."
Nonetheless, Paulsen is confident that stocks will continue to rise and break out of the tight range we've been in for the last year.
There's something big happening in the bond market that could determine which stocks will be the big winners and losers for the rest of the year.
The so-called yield curve, the difference in short-term and long-term government bond yields, is flattening to levels not seen since 2007. It's a scream for help from bond investors worried this slow growth economy won't get any better or will get even worse. So how do you trade it?
Using data from Kensho, an analytics tool used by hedge funds, CNBC Pro screened for the best performing sectors and Dow Jones industrial average stocks during the last five major yield curve flattening moves since 2010.
Apple's break beneath a key technical and psychological level could signal more selling ahead for the stock — and for the broader market.
Asbury Research's chief market strategist, John Kosar, said Apple's close below the $92 level could mean there's roughly another $8 that could come off the share price. That could impact the S&P 500 and the Nasdaq 100, both highly correlated to the tech giant.
"Little levels get little reactions, and big levels get big reactions," he said. "You break a level like $92 that everybody can see ... more reaction in the marketplace. More people are aware of it and are acting on it."
Read MoreStocks mixed, Apple hits fresh low
Investor Susan Byrne slashed the Apple position in her Platinum Portfolio after a decline Thursday dropped the iPhone maker's shares to a two-year low and pushed its market value to number two in the world behind tech rival Alphabet.
Here's how she's handling the losing trade.
Apple is falling even further down the stock market tree.
The tech giant hit its lowest level since June 2014 on Thursday, as the stock continued its post-earnings slide and fell as low as $89.47.
"That 92-level breakdown, that's now resistance," Oppenheimer technical analyst Ari Wald said Thursday on CNBC's "Power Lunch." "You're going to see people break even, people trying to buy at those lows. On the other hand, we see very little support until you get down to the low $80 range. Now that would mark about a 40 percent decline [which we have seen before]."

"What we learned in 2013," when the stock last fell by that amount, is that "you need to wait for this stock to stabilize. We haven't seen it yet, so stay away from [Apple] from now," Wald added.
A drop to $80 would represent a further 11 percent decline from Thursday's closing price.
"We see the stock as being attractively valued, but we would concur with the technical analysis and we would stay on the sidelines as we have as a seller over the last 12 months," Bryn Mawr Trust's chief investment officer, Ernie Cecilia, said Thursday.
Read MoreOne of the bears' biggest arguments is falling apart this year
Specifically, he points to Apple's dependence on the iPhone as a limitation for the company.
"We think that Apple has to focus on recurring revenues as opposed to the market being focused on just, if you will, a new innovation — which will just be difficult each time," he said Thursday.
Last year, two-thirds of the tech giant's revenue came from iPhone sales. But Apple failed to meet its first-quarter earnings estimates and reported a revenue drop, causing the stock to plummet.
Disclosure: Cecilia, Cecilia's family, and Cecilia's firm are long Apple. Wald's firm makes a market in Apple shares.
Check out which companies are making headlines before the bell:
J.C. Penney — The retailer reported an adjusted quarterly loss of 32 cents per share, smaller than the 38 cent a share loss analysts were predicting. However, sales were below estimates, and the company also lowered its full-year gross profit margin guidance.
Nordstrom — Nordstrom is the latest big-name retailer to report an earnings miss. Nordstrom reported quarterly profit of 26 cents per share, well below estimates of 45 cents a share. Revenue was slightly below analysts' forecasts, as well. Nordstrom also cut its full-year outlook after instituting bigger discounts to clear out excess inventory.
Dillard's — Dillard's is another retailer joining the earnings misery parade, posting quarterly profit of $2.17 per share. That was 35 cents a share below estimates. Revenue registers a slight miss, as well. Dillard's saw a third consecutive quarterly decline in same-store sales, and the drop of 5 percent was more than twice what analysts had been predicting.
Tiffany — The luxury goods retailer said Chief Financial Officer Ralph Nicoletti is resigning to join Newell Brands as CFO, effective June 8. His resignation from Tiffany is effective May 20, with the company now beginning the search for a successor.
Shake Shack — Shake Shack reported adjusted quarterly profit of 8 cents per share, 3 cents a share above estimates. The restaurant chain's revenue also beat forecasts. Same-store sales jumped 9.9 percent, more than twice what analysts had projected, and Shake Shack also raised its revenue and sales growth forecast for the full year.
Johnson & Johnson — BTIG downgraded J&J to "neutral" from "buy," saying it is less confident in the outlook for merger and acquisition activity in the medical device sector. That had been a primary driver of its prior "buy" rating.
Allergan — Goldman Sachs added the drugmaker's stock to its "Conviction Buy" list, based on an improved business model and a stronger balance sheet, among other factors.
Lockheed Martin — Stifel Nicolaus cut its rating on the defense contractor's stock to "hold" from "buy," in what it terms primarily a valuation call.
Nvidia — Nvidia beat estimates by 1 cent a share, with quarterly profit of 33 cents per share. Its revenue was also above analysts' estimates. The graphics chipmaker's profit was up by 46 percent from a year earlier on increasing demand from video game players willing to pay for better performance.
Honda — The automaker posted a surprise fourth-quarter loss, due to costs related to recalls of airbag inflators made by Japan's Takata Corp. Honda lost nearly $860 million for the quarter.
Apple — Apple invested $1 billion in China ride-hailing service Didi Chuxing, in a move that Apple CEO Tim Cook said would give Apple a greater understanding of the Chinese market.
Facebook — Facebook released its official employee guidelines as it battles accusations of political bias in the news stories that appear in user feeds.
Activision Blizzard, Electronic Arts — The two biggest video game makers will be on watch, after NPD reported that video game hardware sales were down 23 percent in April compared to a year earlier, while software sales fell 21 percent.
Mobileye — The mobile technology provider struck agreements with two unnamed automakers to provide self-driving car systems in 2019, according to an interview with company chairman Amnon Shashua in The Wall Street Journal.
The "Fast Money" traders share the plays they'd make at the market open.
Tim Seymour was a buyer of Nike on the notion it can "control its destiny" as other retailers in the space struggle.
Karen Finerman was a buyer of Anthem.
Dan Nathan wouldn't do anything... yet. He was a holder of the SPDR S&P Retail ETF ahead of earnings from some of the biggest big box retailers. Companies such as TJX Companies and Wal-Mart report quarterly numbers next week.
Guy Adami was a buyer of Raytheon.
Shake Shack, known for its juicy antibiotic-free hamburgers and frozen custard shakes, on Thursday reported results that topped expectations and raised its same-restaurant sales forecast for the year.
The stock rose as much as 9 percent in after-hours trading, before paring gains to about 5 percent.
"We have continued to execute our growth strategy and drive record results and engagement with our guests while making crucial investments in our team and our Shacks," Chief Executive Randy Garutti said in a news release.
Retail pain hit another company Thursday, as Nordstrom reported disappointing quarterly earnings and warned about slowing sales.
The retailer posted fiscal first-quarter earnings of 26 cents per diluted share on $3.25 billion in revenue. Profit fell from 66 cents per share in the prior-year period, while sales rose slightly from $3.22 billion.
Wall Street expected Nordstrom to report earnings of 45 cents per share on $3.28 billion in sales, according to a Thomson Reuters consensus estimate. The shares plunged 17 percent in after-hours trading.
"Our first-quarter results were impacted by lower-than-expected sales. In response we have made further adjustments to our inventory and expense plans," said Blake Nordstrom, co-president of Nordstrom, in a statement.
The problem with retail isn't that people aren't spending, it is where the money is being spent, Jim Cramer said.
When Cramer listened to the conference call of Macy's this week, and it seemed to him that Macy's wasn't acknowledging the real elephant in the room — Amazon. Instead of recognizing that it had a real problem on its hands, it said that the problem had to do with a stronger dollar impacting tourist traffic.
"In many ways, the decline of Macy's, as well as the pulverization of the stock of discount chain Kohl's after a terrible quarter and guidance today, is like what happened to the newspaper industry and the book store space," the "Mad Money" host said.
Both Macy's and Kohl's saw the internet coming, Cramer explained, but assumed it wouldn't impact them because they thought they were something special. Then they thought they could beat the web by joining it.
Ultimately, they were beaten by it.
"The problem is the web, especially Amazon, and until they face up to that fact, they are going to be in trouble for a very long time," Cramer said.
Read More Cramer: Amazon is the web, retail is a dying newspaper industry
Amazon.com closed at an all-time high Thursday, while Facebook ended just short of its closing peak.
Given a choice between the two Internet giants Thursday, most "Fast Money" traders had a clear preference.
Amazon shares have soared 66 percent in the last year, while Facebook's stock has spiked 55 percent. Both companies got a boost from strong first-quarter earnings.
If you're tired of hearing about how venture capital firms have captured all the early-stage financing for exciting new start-ups, I have some good news for you.
Mom-and-pop crowdfunding for the average person is about to become a reality.
On Mon., May 16, the Securities and Exchange Commission will begin implementing equity crowdfunding nationwide for the average investor. This will allow small companies to directly raise debt or equity capital from friends, family, and interested investors. It's the final piece of landmark legislation called the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act, popularly known as the JOBS Act, that was passed in 2012.
One of its provisions allows new businesses to raise capital from directly from private investors. Initially, only accredited investors — those with $1 million in net worth or who earn at least $200,000 per year — were allowed to invest in start-ups.
Two well-known supermarket stocks did something bizarre recently, leaving Jim Cramer to wonder what the heck just happened.
Whole Foods Market reported earnings last Wednesday, and its competitor Sprouts Farmers Market reported on Thursday morning. Yet, Whole Foods jumped 6 percent, while Sprouts plunged nearly 7 percent.
Two natural and organic supermarkets and two drastically different results.
No, people didn't suddenly start shopping at Whole Foods again after ignoring the place for months. Cramer boiled the reasoning for this unusual behavior down to expectations.
The problem with retail isn't that people aren't spending, it is where the money is being spent, Jim Cramer said.
When Cramer listened to the conference call of Macy's this week, and it seemed to him that Macy's wasn't acknowledging the real elephant in the room — Amazon. Instead of recognizing that it had a real problem on its hands, it said that the problem had to do with a stronger dollar impacting tourist traffic.
"In many ways, the decline of Macy's, as well as the pulverization of the stock of discount chain Kohl's after a terrible quarter and guidance today, is like what happened to the newspaper industry and the book store space," the "Mad Money" host said.
Both Macy's and Kohl's saw the internet coming, Cramer explained, but assumed it wouldn't impact them because they thought they were something special. Then they thought they could beat the web by joining it.
Ultimately, they were beaten by it.
Check out the companies making headlines after the bell Thursday:
Nordstrom's stock tanked after hours when the retailer posted disappointing quarterly earnings. The department store retailer reported earnings of 26 cents per share on sales of $3.25 billion, missing the 45 cents per share on $3.28 billion in sales expected by analysts polled by Thomson Reuters.
It also slashed its earnings outlook for the rest of the year. The Nordstrom's report followed a slew of disappointing reports from competitors like Macy's and Kohl's.
The company is adjusting its inventory and expense plans to adapt to the changing retail landscape in response to weak sales in the first fiscal quarter, Co-president Blake Nordstrom said, in a statement. It recently announced up to 400 job cuts.
Shares of Valeant fell more than 5 percent Thursday after the New York Times reported the company has not kept the discount promises it made to Congress.
The pharmaceutical company told the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform in February that it would cut as much as 30 percent off the drug prices. But according to the Times, many U.S. clinics are still waiting.
"I think we definitely would be among the top users," Scott Knoer, the chief pharmacy officer at the Cleveland Clinic told the Times, referring to the drugs Nitropress and Isuprel. "I would assume we would be on that list."
Marc Grow, a student at Columbia Business School, won this year's idea contest at the Sohn Investment Conference, beating out many others, including professionals, in the eyes of a hedge fund all-star judging panel that included Bill Ackman and David Einhorn.
Grow sat down with CNBC's Scott Wapner to explain how he came up with his idea and what it was like to present in front of the 3,000-plus attendees of the prestigious New York conference.
Each year at Sohn, students, analysts and other new finance professionals submit an investment thesis to a panel of prominent hedge fund managers, who then select the winner based on the soundness of the analysis and 12-month return potential.
Find out his idea and how he won the contest below in an exclusive video for CNBC Pro.
Those who have doubted the power and resilience of the rally in stocks frequently complained that there was something phony about the market. Just a few companies, they pointed out, have contributed the majority of market gains. Once these names lost their momentum and the smoke cleared, the argument went, stocks as a whole would turn lower.
Famous market bear Marc Faber, for instance, proclaimed in the summer that stocks are in a "stealth bear market" and eventually, "the weakness in the overall market ... will strike."
To give credit where credit is due, stocks have indeed lost their mojo since then — and despite a substantial bounce from the mid-February lows, the S&P 500 is slightly lower than it was when those comments were made.
But it is no longer true that a few choice companies are holding up the market. To the contrary, the market right now resembles a baseball team hanging onto a few aging stars: The rest of the starters may be shining, but the big guns depress performance.
Of course, since it is a market-cap-weighted index, the S&P 500 is much more influenced by the performance of some companies than others. The greater the value of a company's free-floating shares, the more its performance will impact the overall S&P 500.
Read MoreThis so-called safe trade may now be very dangerous
An interesting comparison, then, is between the regular S&P 500 and an equal-weighted version, which essentially measures the average performance of all the stocks on a given day. This equal-weight index has underperformed the S&P 500 in recent years, but in 2016 is up 2.9 percent, almost tripling the performance of the S&P. This is a clear indication that the average stock is doing better than the market.
Technology company CA's stock rose more than 5 percent Thursday after the company reported better-than-expected earnings.
The enterprise software firm reported earnings of 60 cents per share on revenues of $1.01 billion, above the 57 cents per share on $989.5 million expected by a Thomson Reuters consensus estimate.
Shares of Party City recovered losses from a fickle trading session Thursday. The stock closed more than 2 percent higher after falling nearly 2 percent in early trading,and dipping more than 9 percent a day earlier, ahead of earnings.
The company beat Wall Street earnings estimates by a penny but posted a surprise drop in revenue.
Same-store sales for Party City dropped by 1.5 percent, while retail sales rose by 2.6 percent, thanks to the addition of 38 new stores in the past year. The company reiterated full-year guidance.
"We are pleased with our first-quarter results, which were generally in line with our expectations," said CEO James Harrison, in a statement. "We continued to make progress executing against our growth strategies."
Party City cited Easter as a reason for a downturn in key same-store sales. The holiday fell into the first quarter as opposed to the second quarter last year. But some analysts were not sold on the justification.
"While this argument seems plausible, we do not buy the excuse, mainly because the earlier timing of Easter should also have had a positive impact on the quarter's sales," said Carter Harrison, retail analyst at research firm Conlumino, in a note. "The wider truth is that other factors are playing a role in diminishing growth."
Harrison cited strong comparatives from Frozen merchandise and a "reorganization of the company's gifting category". Soft consumer sentiment could have also played a role, Harrison said.
The S&P 500's health care sector fell Thursday after a federal judge ruled the Obama administration is unconstitutionally spending federal money to fund Obamacare.
Shares of UnitedHealth Group and Endo International fell more than half a percent, while Aetna, Cigna, and Humana fell more than 1percent.
The ruling Thursday from U.S. District Judge Rosemary Collyer is a win for House Republicans who brought the politically charged legal challenge.
Emerging market bonds may sound like a risky pick right now, but they could be a terrific way to add yield to your portfolio, according to Pablo Goldberg, emerging market debt portfolio manager at BlackRock.
"We see the factors that have been hurting emerging market currencies for the past few years are now turning around," Goldberg said Wednesday on CNBC's "Trading Nation."
"The headwinds are turning into tail winds, making the case for investing in emerging market debt more compelling," he wrote in a recent note.
First, Goldberg sees Chinese growth picking up. A slowing China has been a major issue for emerging markets around the globe.
Additionally, commodities are no longer in free fall, which helps the rather commodity-dependent emerging markets as a group.
Also, a Federal Reserve that appears less inclined to raise rates has sent the dollar lower.
Read MoreChina's commodities meltdown could rock the markets
A rising U.S. currency is big trouble for emerging bonds. In cases in which the bonds must be paid back in dollars, that becomes more difficult, increasing credit risk. In cases in which the bonds are paid back in local currency, the same amount of such currencies is worth less once they're converted back into dollars.
Since he sees the greenback continuing to be weak, at this time, Goldberg recommends that investors not hedge their currency exposure.
In terms of specific countries, Goldberg believes that one of the most promising emerging markets now is Brazil, which could seem a surprising choice given the country's economic contraction over the years under President Dilma Rousseff's leadership. The country's economic output shrank by 3.8 percent last year and unemployment soared to 10.9 percent. But most of all, Brazilians are enraged by Rousseff's efforts to hide a $35 billion budget deficit.
"Clearly growth still has a lot to recover. We need to see some clear fiscal measures put in place to turn around the very difficult story that we have there on the fiscal side and the investment climate has not been the best," said Goldberg.
Apple's stock had another bad day Thursday.
The tech giant's shares were briefly down nearly 3 percent, falling below $90 for the first time since June 26, 2014. They were also the biggest drag on the Dow Jones industrial average.
Apple's market cap was also knocked off from the No. 1 spot by Google-parent Alphabet. Apple shares closed down 2.3 percent.
The move on Apple shares "shows that Apple's in a lull. The question is: Is it a permanent lull, or is it just temporary until they figure out the next big thing?" Steven Milunovich, an analyst at UBS, told CNBC's "Fast Money: Halftime" on Thursday.
"Technically, we've taken out recent lows and there is a concern that [CEO] Tim Cook may have lost a handle on near-term demand and certainly, nobody believes the iPhone 7 is going to have tremendously new features that makes everybody go out and want to buy a new phone," he added.
The company's shares have been under pressure recently by iPhone demand concerns. On Wednesday morning, the Asian Nikkei Review, citing sources familiar with the matter, reported that Taiwan's tech suppliers will get far fewer orders from Apple in the second half of the year compared to last year.
Recent downgrades to global economic growth forecasts suggest the crude market is not out of the danger zone, Harry Tchilinguirian, global head of commodity markets strategy BNP Paribas, said Thursday.
In its latest oil market report released Thursday, the International Energy Agency said a rebalancing of supply and demand is becoming evident. However, crude stockpiles remain "enormous" and would need time to fall, Neil Atkinson, head of oil industry and markets at the IEA, told CNBC Europe.
Two billionaire hedge fund managers see more gains ahead for gold, even after the precious metal's 16 percent rise in the first quarter, on predictions of further central bank currency debasement. How can investors still score decent returns in this gloomy future where gold is the best asset?
"We believe the March quarter's price action could represent something closer to the beginning of such a move than to the end," hedge fund manager Paul Singer wrote in an April 28 note to clients, according to Bloomberg News. And legendary investor Stanley Druckenmiller also recommended the precious metal to Sohn Investment Conference attendees last Wednesday.
Using data from Kensho, an analytics tool used by hedge funds, CNBC Pro screened for which securities and sectors do well when gold rose 15 percent or more in 90 days.
Shares of General Electric fell almost 1 percent Thursday after analysts at JPMorgan raised questions about the company's valuation.
"While recognizing a bold portfolio transformation, and solid technology potential, we think these positives are more than reflected in GE stock at current levels, and on the numbers, we see an unfavorable risk/reward, given a stubbornly high expectation forward earnings curve, and weak underlying earnings quality/[free cash flow], at a premium valuation," they said in a Thursday note to clients.
JPMorgan resumed its coverage of the stock with an "underweight" rating and a price target of $27.
GE shares traded near $30 on Thursday.
For the moment, the following is the shock NOT heard 'round the world … at least not yet.
Rampant speculation in China's commodities markets could very well be the next "black swan" event that rocks global markets and possibly the global economy. Though very little attention has been paid to this recent action, speculative excesses in China's commodity markets have taken traders and investors on a wild ride, which may likely soon spill over to the rest of the world.
Based on squeezed margins and record-high stock valuations this year, Goldman Sachs Chief U.S. Equity Strategist David Kostin says it's time to play defense.
"Defense makes sense," Kostin told CNBC's "Squawk on the Street" Thursday. "Basically, it's a tough market."
Eighty percent of fund managers are trailing the benchmark, Kostin said. So when picking stocks, he recommended that managers focus on a yield-based strategy to counter record-high valuations.
"The core of it and where you generate the win ultimately, is getting the dividends," Kostin said.
Stock valuations are higher than they have been in 40 years, according to Kostin, which adds to downside risk.
Investors have been harvesting big gains in the past month from agricultural commodities, and some of the futures, such as sugar and soybeans, were near levels this week not seen in 18 months or more.
Latin America weather woes and the Brazilian government turmoil are playing a major role in the month-long ag rally. Brazil's real has strengthened against the dollar, encouraging producers of traditional export products, such as coffee and sugar, to sell supplies at home.
"You had the real, which started to appreciate in anticipation of the impeachment of President (Dilma) Rousseff," said David Maloni, chief commodity strategist at the American Restaurant Association. "You also have a lot of investment money coming in on the long side as opposed to the short side, which is bringing support to the markets."
We're in a very "schizophrenic" market, strategist Bob Doll said Thursday.
"I mean look at the last two trading days: [Tuesday], a lot of euphoria; yesterday, 'Oh my goodness, the world's going to end,'" Nuveen Asset Management's chief equity strategist and senior portfolio manager told CNBC's "Worldwide Exchange."
In order for the market to go higher, Doll said earnings need to rebound, which he expects will happen in the second half of the year.
"For earnings to go up, we need the dollar to behave, that is, to not go back up and oil to behave, meaning not going back down," he said, adding the manufacturing side of the economy also needs to show more strength.
"That's asking a lot," Doll said, "and I think we'll get some of that and some better earnings in the second half, but I'm not going to put all of my money on black on that one."
Despite some disappointing earnings, the rally has been a product of less bad news out of China and the Federal Reserve, he said.
As for oil, Doll said the commodity can remain at the relatively low price where it stands now. It just needs to stay in a somewhat stable trading range, he said. "I think we'd be just fine and the benefits of lower oil for the consumer would come to the fore."
On the surface, the jump in weekly unemployment claims to a 14-month high of 294,000 looks alarming, particularly after April's surprise slowdown in hiring.
But some economists aren't worried yet, since they can explain away a sharp 20,000 increase with one event — spring break for New York City schools.
"The story is that non-teacher school employees (bus drivers, cafeteria workers, etc.) are somehow permitted to file for unemployment when schools are closed for a week or two (your tax dollars at work). Since the timing of the breaks swings around from year to year, the seasonal adjustment process is unable to properly take this special factor into account," wrote Stephen Stanley, chief economist at Amherst Pierpont Securities.
Well that was quick.
Shares of Ralph Lauren quickly gave up most of their gains Thursday, despite reporting better-than-expected earnings per share and revenue for its fiscal fourth quarter. The company's results were helped by helped by an extra week in the quarter, new stores and growth in online sales.
The company's stock rose more than 6 percent at the open, but was just 2.8 percent higher by Thursday's close, tracking the broader market, which turned negative.
About one-third of American malls are not long for this world, retail analyst Jan Kniffen said Thursday.
The CEO of J. Rogers Kniffen Worldwide Enterprises spoke after Macy's reported its worst sequential same-store sales decline since the financial crisis. Macy's and other retailers got slammed by a warm winter and cool spring, as well as the continued migration of millennials to fast fashion and off-price stores, Kniffen said.
Apple, which has really been to the school of hard knocks recently, is more than ever missing the magic of Steve Jobs, said Walter Isaacson, author of the best-selling biography of the late co-founder of the tech giant.
"What may be missing is the unbelievable visionary like a Steve Jobs, which you just can't say, 'Oh, let's replace Steve Jobs.' It just doesn't happen," Isaacson told CNBC's "Squawk Box" Thursday.
"Nobody can replace Steve Jobs," Isaacson argued. "He was the greatest genius in terms of just knowing intuitively the type of things that would be objects of our desire."
"Tim Cook is a great CEO. And Steve Jobs always thought he was great," Isaacson acknowledged, but added Apple is long overdue to come out with "the next big thing."
"I got the watch, but I don't use it that much. I don't think the watch is the next big thing," Isaacson said, a notion shared by many analysts and experts who follow Apple.
Shares of Jack in the Box rose more than 15 percent Thursday after its second-quarter results beat Wall Street expectations.
The restaurant chain reported diluted earnings per share of 85 cents on revenue of $361 million, helped by higher traffic at its Qdoba Mexican Eats restaurants.
"Operating earnings per share for the second quarter exceeded our expectations and guidance, and resulted primarily from healthy margins and cost controls combined with mark-to-market adjustments and a lower tax rate," Lenny Comma, the company's chairman and CEO, said in a statement.
Two months after the market's bottom, the IPO market is showing precious little signs of life.
Absent a red-hot IPO market, we are down to niche plays, and there is an interesting one today: SiteOne Landscape Supply priced 10 million shares at $21 last night, the midpoint of the $20 to $22 price talk, and will begin trading this morning at the NYSE.
SiteOne, which came out of Deere, is the largest distributor of landscape products in the United States. Fertilizer may not sound like a hot business, but it's right in the middle of the home DIY thing that Home Depot and Lowe's plays off of. Their customers are primarily residential and commercial landscape professionals. They do the design and maintenance for lawns, gardens, golf courses and other outdoor spaces.
Don't laugh. It's a $16 billion business. SiteOne has $1.5 billion in revenue, so they own almost 10 percent of the business and are growing through acquisitions and organically (7 percent a year).
And it's a recurring business. You have to put down fertilizer every year, after all. They are also expanding into peripheral businesses like LED lights.
OK, fertilizer is not going to attract screaming crowds of buyers, but this company fits the criteria for what IPO investors are looking for: niche player with a clearly defined product, profitable, growing, modest debt levels and reasonable valuation.
Elsewhere, I have been waiting for the IPO market to open up for a month. There are more than 100 companies waiting to go public.
It didn't help that a smallish deal, tobacco seller Turning Point Brands priced yesterday at $10, well below the price talk of $13 to $15
It doesn't help that the Renaissance IPO ETF, a basket of roughly 60 recent IPOs, is underperforming, down over 6 percent for the year.
It doesn't help that we have all these tech startups waiting to go public but since Square went public in November 2015, we have not seen an IPO from the state of California.
What's the problem?
Kohl's big fiscal first-quarter comparable sales miss is stirring up more reminders of the huge nosedive retail took during the most recent recession.
The low-price department store chain on Thursday said its comparable sales slid 3.9 percent during the recently ended quarter, representing its biggest drop in that metric since the first quarter of 2009. During that period, the retailer's comparable sales fell 4.2 percent.
Analysts had expected Kohl's to report a slight uptick in comparable sales.
Kohl's big sales miss came just one day after Macy's reported a weaker-than-expected comparable revenue decline of 5.6 percent, which also marked its biggest drop since the recession in 2009. In the wake of Kohl's results, its shares slid more than 11 percent, to around $34.30, midday Thursday. The company's stock had previously not traded as low since March 2009.
"There seems to be some more [macroeconomic issues] given the performances of both ourselves and the competition," CEO Kevin Mansell told analysts on a conference call.
Kohl's stock fell more than 9 percent Thursday after the retailer reported quarterly results that fell short of analyst expectations.
The company posted adjusted first-quarter earnings of 31 cents a share on revenue of $3.97 billion. Analysts polled by Reuters expected Kohl's to report earnings per share of 37 cents on revenue of $4.13 billion.
The retailer's revenue fall was its first in six quarters and came amid a 3.9 percent fall in same-store sales.
"First quarter sales were challenging. Despite the sales environment, we were able to manage our gross margin and inventory levels consistent with our expectations as we took the markdowns necessary to clear excess inventory. We managed our expenses effectively throughout the quarter as every area contributed to our savings versus our plan," Kevin Mansell, Kohl's chairman and CEO, said in a statement.
Shares of Monsanto rose more than 8 percent Thursday after reports that two German firms were interested buying the agrochemical company.
Bloomberg reported that Bayer is exploring a potential bid for Monsanto, citing people familiar with the matter, while multiple reports said BASF was is working with investment banks on another bid.
Bayer and BASF declined to comment. Monsanto did not immediately respond to CNBC's comment request.
Amazon and Facebook have soared to all-time highs, but their success may actually be counterproductive for the economy.
While the two tech giants are watching their stocks climb, other big names have reported first-quarter earnings below estimates and are struggling with falling numbers. Macy's and Disney are the two most recent names to be hit, and some traders are speculating that the internet giants could be to blame.
"Amazon is disrupting everyone," Manhattan Venture Partners chief economist Max Wolff said Wednesday on CNBC's "Trading Nation." "They're getting into one industry and then another. They tend to compress the profit margin and squeeze out other players."
The effects of the high-revenue, low-profit business model are incredibly widespread, he argued.
"[Amazon has a huge] impact on employment, on rents and on downtown usage," Wolff said. "We've seen mall retail struggling, we've seen some employment weakness, so there are real effects here that are nontrivial."
In addition to their vast online retail catalog, Amazon has also introduced a myriad of services over the years to compete in a variety of industries. The company has now expanded to include not only their Amazon Prime option that includes cloud photo storage for users, but also a grocery delivery service, a video streaming platform and a podcast network.
Facebook, for its part, has expanded beyond its core social media platform to become an ad revenue–generating powerhouse, thanks to its huge reach. This makes the social media giant another economic disruptor, according to Wolff.
"So Facebook and Google control online advertising, and Amazon is 30-plus percent of e-commerce," he said. "So [what's] a bit counterintuitive about these new and exciting technologies that are making everything competitive is they tend to be very dominant."
Read MoreDepartment stores play defense against Amazon
But the true economic disruption of today's tech giants is hard to measure, especially given their reliance on the internet and their vast reach across multiple sectors. Convergex chief market strategist Nick Colas mentioned that the nature of today's tech industry has left many economists searching for answers.
"There's a big disruption going on and economists really have trouble quantifying it in terms of productivity growth, which at the end of the day is important for economic growth. There's an old saying that you can see the internet everywhere except the productivity data, and you're definitely seeing that play in the stock market as well," he said.
"You have disruption, but it's not yet creating the kind of growth that we had either in wages or in the economy with prior technologies like in the 1920s and '30s," Colas added.
Meanwhile, from a stock market perspective, tech stocks as a group aren't even managing to do well.
"Growth matters to a lot of investors. They're looking for things that can grow on the top line. And certain technologies, disruptive technologies, have that capability," Colas said. "Interestingly though, we're not getting a lot of tech leadership," given that the information technology sector is still down on the year, lagging the S&P 500.
Check out which companies are making headlines before the bell:
Kohl's — Kohl's reported adjusted quarterly profit of 31 cents per share, 6 cents below estimates, with revenue also missing the mark. Kohl's said quarterly sales were challenging and that it took significant discounts to clear out excess inventory.
General Electric — JPMorgan Chase resumed coverage of GE with an "underweight" rating, saying positives from the company's portfolio transformation and its technology potential are more than reflected in its current stock price.
Chipotle Mexican Grill — The restaurant chain added $100 million to its previously announced $1.9 billion stock buyback program.
Jack In The Box — Jack In The Box reported quarterly earnings of 85 cents per share, beating estimates by 5 cents. Revenue was slightly above Street expectations, with sales boosted by a nearly 10-percent revenue jump at the company's Qdoba chain.
JetBlue — The airline reported an April load factor of 84.1 percent, down 1.6 percentage points from a year earlier. Passenger traffic did jump by 8.5 percent, but capacity was higher by 10.8 percent.
CA Technologies — The company formerly known as Computer Associates beat estimates by 3 cents with adjusted quarterly profit of 60 cents per share, with revenue also above estimates. The software company also gave a better than expected forecast for the full year, as it expands cloud-based and mobile applications.
Caterpillar — Caterpillar CEO Doug Oberhelman said the heavy equipment maker is poised to move quickly into the Cuban market once a U.S. trade embargo is lifted. His comments followed a meeting with Cuban officials in Havana.
Tiffany — The luxury goods retailer left the International AntiCounterfeiting Coalition, without citing a reason. That follows departures from the group by Gucci and Michael Kors, with Kors having specifically pointed to the admission of Alibaba to the group as its reason for leaving.
Las Vegas Sands — Las Vegas Sands settled charges with the state of Nevada by paying a fine of $2 million without admitting or denying guilt. The casino operator had been accused of violating state gambling laws, following federal charges involving anti-money laundering measures.
Apple — Apple is denying reports that it plans to stop offering music downloads on its iTunes service.
AstraZeneca — The company's cancer drug selumetinib has been granted "orphan drug" status by the Food and Drug Administration. The drug is designed to treat certain forms of thyroid cancer.
Monsanto — Monsanto is getting a boost this morning on reports that Germany's BASF is working with investment banks on a potential takeover bid for the maker of agricultural chemicals.
Industrials were on fire in 2016 until they began to cool a few weeks ago. However, if oil goes back up to $50 and the dollar losses strength, Jim Cramer thinks the love of industrials will be rekindled.
"I'm still a believer in the thesis that the dollar is headed lower, and things could be looking up for the industrial cohort," the "Mad Money" host said.
In many cases, the strength of the group does not pertain to the fundamentals of the companies. The rally was simply pertaining to the theory that going forward, the global economy will get better and the dollar will lose strength.
That is why Cramer sifted through the industrials and found six off-the-radar plays that have recently outperformed tremendously. He called them his "dirty half-dozen" industrials.
It wasn't very long ago that Jim Cramer remembers that investors wouldn't dare touch a company that carried Disney merchandise. They thought the business would be too episodic and not lucrative.
Instead, they bought the stock of Disney because of its consistent revenue stream from cable, specifically ESPN.
Everything changed on Wednesday.
Shares of SeaWorld dropped about 3 percent Wednesday after Credit Suisse said the theme park firm's turnaround thesis is now "beached."
Analysts at the Swiss bank slashed its rating on the stock to "underperform" from "outperform" and cut the price target to $15 from $27.
"While we believe that the theme park sector in general offers investors a strong pure-play on the recovering low/middle end consumer, along with substantial barriers to entry, expectations for SEAS are ahead of themselves heading into the 2016 season, and we see downside to estimates and multiple compression as results fail to materialize," Credit Suisse analysts said in a Wednesday note to clients.
A SeaWorld spokesperson later told CNBC in a statement: "We can't specifically comment on an analyst report, but we are we are implementing the strategic plan we laid out in November 2015, and are seeing signs of stabilization in the business as reported in our earnings call this month."
Read More SeaWorld announces it has stopped breeding orcas
The stock traded near $18 Wednesday.
Over the past year, SeaWorld's stock has fallen nearly 16 percent and has shed more than 9 percent in 2016.
SEAS this year
Check out the companies making headlines after the bell Wednesday:
Weight Watchers International's stock inched higher in light volume, after news that a shareholder lawsuit had been dismissed. Investors had claimed the company misled them about the impact of free mobile apps, new software and enrollment at meetings, but a Manhattan judge dismissed the case, Reuters reported.
Shares of Toyota Motor fell more than 6 percent Wednesday as company announced lower full-year forecasts due to yen strength, and an end to its three-year profit streak.
The Japanese automaker outlined a 35 percent decline in net profit because of appreciation in the currency. It is expecting profit for the year to fall to 1.5 trillion yen, far short of average analysts' estimates of 2.25 trillion yen, according to Thomson Reuters. Toyota is predicting a negative impact of 935 billion yen on operating profit, it said in a statement.
"We have benefited from an exchange rate tailwind that has helped raise our earnings above the level of our true capabilities," Toyota's President Akio Toyoda said, in a statement. "Although this has enabled us to take on new challenges, that set of circumstances is likely to change for the worse this year."
Among the benefits of "exchange rate tailwind" were three-straight years of record profit for the company, increasing from 2.17 trillion to 2.31 trillion yen in the fourth quarter of 2016.
The automaker's stock is down about 20 percent year to date.
Retail stocks, already under pressure, were crushed Wednesday after Macy's reported sales that were worse than feared and the company said it sees few signs of improvement.
The retail giant slashed its full-year forecast amid continuing weak apparel demand. Macy's CEO Terry Lundgren said in a statement he does not expect consumers to start spending more anytime soon.
Macy's is the latest retailer to report lousy earnings results. Gap's stock plunged as much as 15 percent Monday after the retailer reported yet another quarter where sales declined. L Brands, the maker of Victoria Secret, also missed expectations.
Macy's warning did not bode well for the retailer's rivals. Shares of Nordstrom, Kohl's, J.C. Penney and Dillard's, all posted big losses. Luxury retailers Michael Kors and Ralph Lauren also traded lower.
Shares of Electronic Arts jumped nearly 14 percent Wednesday, after the company reported quarterly results well-above analyst estimates, partially thanks to the popularity of its Star Wars game series.
The game maker's stock hit a $74.92 Wednesday, just shy of its 52-week high of $76.92. It was up nearly 7 percent for the year and more than 17 percent year-over-year.
Electronic Arts earned an adjusted 50 cents per share in its fourth fiscal quarter, eight cents above analyst estimates. The company's revenue also beat Street forecasts at $924 million, while analysts expected $889 million, according to Thompson Reuters.
Something strange has happened this year between Apple and companies that supply parts to its many products: Their stock performances have diverged, after a long period of moving up and down together. Even weirder is that this divergence is not based on which companies are more dependent on the tech giant.
Shares of major suppliers that generate significant portions of their revenue from Apple have held relatively steady despite Apple's stock getting crushed in the last few weeks. In fact, some of them even have outperformed Apple significantly over the longer run.
Year-to-date shares of Cirrus Logic, for example, are up roughly 13 percent as of the market's close Tuesday. The company develops high-precision analog and mixed-signal integrated circuits for a broad range of innovative customers including Apple.
Likewise, shares of Multi-Fineline Electronix, a company that provides printed circuit and assembly solution, are also up close to 7 percent. Compare that with Apple's stock, which is down over 11 percent in the period.
Both Cirrus Logic and Multi-Fineline Electronix generate more than 70 percent of their revenue from Apple. The divergence in stock performance is counterintuitive given Apple's lackluster Q1 2016 growth and lowered Q2 revenue guidance.
A slew of media stocks followed Disney shares lower Tuesday after the Dow component posted its first quarterly earnings miss in five years.
Shares of Twenty-First Century Fox, Time Warner, Liberty Global and Viacom were all in the red, while Disney shed more than 4 percent and accounted for the biggest drag on the Dow Jones industrial average.
Disney reported adjusted earnings of $1.36 per share on $12.97 billion in revenue for its fiscal 2016 second quarter. Analysts expected Disney to report earnings of $1.40 per share on $13.19 billion in revenue, according to a Thomson Reuters consensus estimate.
"If you look at this quarter, the bulls got exactly what they wanted. The studio results beat expectations; the bears didn't actually get what they wanted, which was a miss on the cable side of the business," Jason Bazinet, an analyst at Citigroup, told CNBC's "Squawk on the Street" on Wednesday.
Read MoreIt's time for Disney to sell TV directly to consumers: Analyst
"That's part the reason, I think, Disney's stock was so strong heading into this print. Most people understood those dynamics were probably going to unfold. The real surprise that happened this quarter was a miss in consumer products. That where the Street had been expecting pretty significant growth on the heels of all the intellectual property getting monetized; that was the real surprise," he said.
Shares of Disney are down almost 3 percent for the year, but have surged more than 13 percent over the past three months.
DIS in past 3 months
Most storms invade quiet skies, but not every calm spell directly leads to a storm. This is true in markets as in weather, which makes it tricky to interpret the subdued behavior of stocks so far this spring.
Volatility has ebbed dramatically over the past two months — both the actual day-to-day movement of the market and the expected jumpiness over the next month that's priced into index options, as measured by the CBOE's S&P 500 Volatility Index (VIX).
The VIX has been plumbing 10-month lows, sliding below 14 on Tuesday for the 13th time in the past 20 trading days, after spending most of January and February above the long-term average of about 20. In general, the VIX rises as the S&P 500 index falls and anxiety builds, and drops when stocks rally and nerves are soothed.
The "low" level of the VIX draws predictable cries that investors are "complacent" and the market vulnerable to a serious drop. But the VIX has declined for legitimate reasons. It's not all that low and even prolonged stretches of suppressed volatility don't necessarily lead to quick tumbles.
JPMorgan Chase CEO Jamie Dimon gave a lengthy interview on CNBC's "Squawk Box" Wednesday, which is available in full only for CNBC Pro subscribers.
Dimon discusses:
Watch the in-depth video with Dimon below.
Shares of Canadian Solar soared on the back of a bright earnings report.
The solar company reported adjusted first-quarter earnings of 39 cents a share on revenue of $721 million, blowing past expectations for 14 cents a share on sales of $663 million, according to consensus estimates from Thomson Reuters.
Canadian Solar also raised its full-year sales guidance. The company said that it now expects $3 billion to $3.2 billion in revenue for 2016. It had previously forecast $2.9 billion to $3.1 billion in sales for the year.
The stock was up more than 12 percent on Wednesday.
CNBC "Halftime Report" trader Jon Najarian bought shares of Microsoft, which are trailing the rest of the technology sector and overall market this year.
The company is down more than 8 percent, while the technology sector is down 2 percent. In comparison, the S&P 500 is up 2 percent.
Najarian also added trucker XPO Logistics for his model portfolio Tuesday.
In an exclusive video for Pro members, the fast-thinking trader reveals his investment strategy for both names.
It's time for Fossil to do a better job of selling to millennials, CNBC's Jim Cramer said Wednesday.
"Now this is important: The CEO says 'largely, millennials have not worn watches because they grew up with smartphones.' Millennials are a whole big part of the population and they're taking over the earth," Cramer said on "Squawk on the Street."
Fossil shares plunged almost 30 percent Wednesday, a day after the company reported quarterly results that fell short of Wall Street expectations.
Read MoreFrom geek to chic: Wearables meet fashion at CES
"On Fossil's conference call, which was a horror show, [they] said 'we sell 30 million watches today.' All they do primarily is tell time. That's now a liability when you wear [an Apple Watch]," Cramer said. "This doesn't just tell time, it tells me when my wife is calling me."
Fossil's stock is down 22 percent so far this year, and have fallen 64.5 percent in the past 12 months.
FOSL in past year
Apple appears stuck in market limbo after its post-earnings plunge, so how do you play a stock that doesn't seem to be going anywhere?
According to Mark Tepper, president of Strategic Wealth Partners, the tech giant's shares aren't a bad buy at current levels.
First of all, the stock's valuation has fallen sharply as the shares have slid, he points out.

Second, while the company may no longer be blazing new ground with each product cycle, Tepper contends that Apple's core business still looks strong.
"One of the main things I'm hearing right now is Apple is no longer revolutionary, they have become evolutionary — [but is evolutionary] really a bad thing?" he said Tuesday on CNBC's "Power Lunch."
"We look at toothpastes and Band-Aids, there's nothing revolutionary about toothpaste and Band-Aids, but when you look at Procter & Gamble, over the last 10 years Proctor & Gamble is up nearly 50 percent. Johnson & Johnson over the last 10 years is up nearly 100 percent," he said. "So even evolutionary companies, even if that's the case with Apple which I don't think is necessarily the situation here, can still make money."
Read MorePortfolio managers expect Apple's stock to bear fruit
Apple's first-quarter earnings report did usher in concerns its products may not be as appealing to consumers as in the past. The tech giant reported the first revenue drop since 2007, with slowing iPhone sales taking a major toll.
From the perspective of those currently holding the stock, there may be a way to use options to squeeze out profits.
Harvest Volatility Management's chief investment officer, Dennis Davitt, pointed out that by selling the 100-strike call and the 85-strike put, one can make an extra 2.5 percent in the stock. The downside is that gains above $100 will be forsaken, and below $85, one will be exposed to extra losses.
Still, if the stock remains stuck within a range, such a trade could be attractive.
"Even if the stock is locked up as dead money as these two forces battle it out, value versus liquidation, you can get additional yield out of this stock, hold it and get paid to hold it while I think the stock eventually goes higher," he said on "Power Lunch."

Apple closed at $93 on Tuesday, marginally higher than its $92 low from last week. That, in turn, was the lowest the shares have been in nearly two years.
Disclosure: Tepper's family and firm all own Apple; Davitt personally owns Apple.
Disclaimer
Chart analysts got excited about the action in crude oil Tuesday as its 50-day moving average traded above its 200-day moving average, forming a 'golden cross' that's supposed to mark a change in long-term trend. Is this really the end of the two-year downturn in crude?
Check out which companies are making headlines before the bell:
Macy's — Macy's shares were slammed after its quarterly revenue fell short of analysts' estimates and the retailer lowered its guidance for fiscal 2016. However, the company's earnings of 40 cents a share beat expectations by 4 cents a share.
Walt Disney — Disney shares are under pressure after a rare shortfall in its quarterly earnings. Disney earned $1.36 per share for its latest quarter, four cents a share shy of estimates. Revenue fell short, as well. The miss comes amid a drop in ad revenue at cable channel ESPN, among other factors, and marked the first time in five years that Disney earnings had fallen short of Street estimates.
Staples, Office Depot — The office supplies retailers have ended their planned merger deal, after a judge sided with the Federal Trade Commission in its effort to block the deal on competitive grounds. The companies do not plan to appeal the decision.
Electronic Arts — Electronic Arts earned an adjusted 50 cents per share for its latest quarter, 8 cents a share above estimates. The video game maker's revenue easily beat Street forecasts, as well. The company's "Star Wars Battlefront" game was among the key factors in helping it exceed analysts' forecasts.
Wendy's — Wendy's reported quarterly profit of 11 cents per adjusted share, 2 cents a share above estimates. Revenue beat forecasts, as well, and Wendy's also raised its full-year forecast. Same-restaurant sales rose 3.6 percent for the quarter.
Fossil Group — Fossil earnings fell 3 cents a share short of estimates, with quarterly profit of 12 cents per share. The watch maker's revenue was also short of Street forecasts. The company gave a current-quarter outlook that is far short of estimates, as well, amid increasing competition from smart watches.
SeaWorld — Credit Suisse downgraded the theme park operator to "underperform" from "outperform."  The firm is optimistic on theme park companies in general, but thinks expectations for SeaWorld are ahead of themselves and that the company will suffer from a lack of pricing power.
Planet Fitness — Planet Fitness reported adjusted quarterly profit of 15 cents per share, 2 cents above estimates, while revenue came in above analysts' forecasts. The fitness chain also increased its full-year outlook as its customer base increases.
Blue Buffalo Pet Products — Blue Buffalo came in 1 cent a share ahead of estimates, with quarterly profit of 19 cents per share. Revenue was also above estimates. The pet food producer also gave strong current-quarter and full-year guidance, as it continues to gain market share.
Alaska Air — The airline's stock is joining the S&P 500 after the Thursday close. It will replace SanDisk, which is being acquired by Western Digital. Restaurant chain Texas Roadhouse will move from the S&P SmallCap 600 to replace Alaska Air in the S&P MidCap 400.
Toyota Motor — Toyota is forecasting a 35 percent drop in net profit for the fiscal year that ends March 31, 2017, with a soaring yen cited as a key factor in hurting the automaker's results after three years of record profits.
Chipotle Mexican Grill — Chipotle holds its annual meeting today, with activist shareholders seeking board changes after food safety incidents this past year hurt the restaurant chain's sales.
Align Technology  — The maker of Invisalign invisible dental braces was rated "outperform" in new coverage at Credit Suisse, with a price target of $84. The firm points to Align's increasing portfolio of patented technologies, which it said should drive rapid revenue growth.
JPMorgan Chairman and CEO Jamie Dimon told CNBC on Wednesday the presidential candidates should stop their "denigration" and "finger-pointing," and get down to the business of uniting the nation.
"If the next president does the right things around immigration, corporate and individual tax reform, [and] infrastructure spending, America would be booming," Dimon said. "That boom would help the people who need it the most, the people at the bottom of the ladder."
As the market ramped up on Tuesday, money finally flowed back into the once-loved growth names of FANG — Jim Cramer's acronym that stands for Facebook, Amazon, Netflix and Google-parent Alphabet.
"Google is the one that is most intriguing. I know the company's stock seems vulnerable as it missed on both the top and the bottom line. I still think there is so much low-hanging fruit here, though," the "Mad Money" host said.
With the combination of a weaker dollar and a large cash position, Cramer suspects that Alphabet's numbers could go much higher if it had a huge buyback or smart acquisition to spark growth.
Shares of marketing-automation software firm Marketo surged almost 25 percent Tuesday after Bloomberg reported, citing people with knowledge on the matter, that the company was in talks with Morgan Stanley about a possible sale.
MKTO intradaySource: FactSet
Bloomberg noted that there is no imminent deal and that talks may not lead to a sale.
Marketo declined to comment. Morgan Stanley did not immediately respond to CNBC's request for comment.
Click here to read Bloomberg's full report.
Whatever the reaction to allegations that Facebook deliberately suppressed conservative news, it's unlikely the company's bottom line will be impacted, experts told CNBC Tuesday.
According to a Monday report by Gizmodo, a former contract worker for Facebook said the social networking giant allegedly often "suppressed news stories of interest to conservative readers" by keeping such stories out of its newsfeed. (Facebook issued a statement denying the claims.)
If the workers weren't following official Facebook policies, it's likely the news will blow over, said technology analyst Jan Dawson of Jackdaw Research.
"The specific case here isn't that damaging," Dawson said. He added:  "I don't think it's going to cause any users to stop using Facebook – it now has so much power that it's hard for most people to contemplate giving up on it for principled reasons."
Oil's chart just formed a key technical pattern that's sure to have the bulls running wild, but one trader warns investors shouldn't get too carried away.
"People are going to get really excited about the fact that we are seeing what some call a 'golden cross,'" Scott Nations told CNBC's "Futures Now" on Tuesday. A golden cross refers to when a short-term moving average crosses above a long-term moving average — technicians often view this occurrence as a bullish reversal in trend. In the case of oil, its 50-day moving average touched the 200-day moving average Tuesday.
According to Nations, in crude's specific case, where its 50-day moving average crossed its 200-day moving average on Tuesday, it's merely a temporary bounce. "[The 'golden cross'] means almost nothing when the 200-day moving average is falling as it is right now," explained the chief investment officer and president of NationsShares.
Furthermore, Nations noted that oil is butting up against resistance around the $45 level. That doesn't discount the fact that we could see slightly higher crude prices in the near future, as Nations pointed out that the outages due to the wildfires in Canada will continue to support prices in the near term.
However, he said the likelihood of a rip-roaring rally is still slim. "I think we are going to have to see something really fundamental change before we can see a lot more upside."
Oil was up more than 2 percent Tuesday, trading at just under $44.50 per barrel.

Shares of Sodastream rose Tuesday after the appliance maker's earnings were boosted by a pivot toward sparkling water.
The Israeli company, which makes home beverage carbonation systems, posted diluted earnings of 29 cents per share on revenue of $100.9 million in the latest quarter. Shares closed up nearly 24 percent at $18.22.
Mobile device maker Nokia saw its stock fall more than 7 percent Tuesday after reporting a bigger-than-expected network sales decline.
The company also said it sees sales declining further this year.
First-quarter network sales dropped 8 percent in from a year ago to $5.9 billion, missing Reuters' forecast of $6.27 billion. Nokia said the decline was due to customers holding off new orders while it integrates its purchase of rival Alcatel-Lucent.
Nokia bought Franco-American Alcatel for $17.8 billion earlier this year to help it more broadly compete with Sweden's Ericsson and China's Huawei in both fixed-line and mobile network equipment.
Oil prices are spiking on supply disruptions due to the wildfire in Canada's oil-sands region, so which stocks will rise the most if the energy commodity continues to rally?
WTI crude is up 20 percent this year and up 12 percent the past four weeks through Tuesday morning. To find the stocks most levered to the commodity, CNBC Pro used Kensho, a quantitative tool used by hedge funds.
We screened for the best and worst performing S&P 500 names when oil prices rose by at least 15 percent over a month during the last decade.
McDonald's shares hit an all-time intraday high Tuesday in large part because of its all-day breakfast menu, Barclays restaurant analyst Jeffrey Bernstein said.
The stock traded as high as $131.96 and closed at $131.60, up 0.6 percent.
All-day breakfast has been the major component lifting the previously underperforming chain, but it's not the only component, Bernstein told CNBC's "Squawk on the Street." New products, like bratwurst in Milwaukee and garlic fries in San Francisco, have caught customer attention. The ongoing transition to cage-free eggs and improvement of protein quality have also helped to sustain the momentum.
The fast-food giant's stock has also benefited from solid quarterly results. McDonald's last month reported first-quarter earnings of $1.23 per share, on $5.9 billion in revenue versus Reuters' estimate of $1.16 per share on $5.83 billion in revenue.
Read MoreMcDonald's tests Chicken McGriddle in Ohio: Report
McDonald's will continue to grow, Bernstein added. "I don't expect it to be necessarily an investor's best performer, but in this environment, it's large, liquid with a healthy dividend, and I think the fundamental momentum is there. I think you'll see comps remain strong in the near term. I think there's an earnings upside."
Investors should buy dividend stocks as a way to generate returns in a sideways market like this one, according to Wall Street strategists.
In a recent note, Brian Belski, chief investment strategist at BMO Capital Markets, encouraged clients to seek "dividend growth strategies" right now as a way to combat "range bound market periods."
Similarly, a study using analytics tool Kensho showed that dividend-paying stocks from the consumer staples and health-care sectors are the best performers 
 when the S&P 500 goes for long stretches of time little changed.
In the first five months of 2016, the S&P 500 is up just 1.6 percent. By year-end, Wall Street strategists expect the index to rise only 3 percent from here.
Shares of Zoetis fell nearly 2 percent Tuesday following a 
New York Timesreport that billionaire hedge fund manager Bill Ackman is selling a stake in the company.
Ackman's Pershing Square Capital Management is trimming 16.85 million shares from his position in Zoetis, with a price range of $46.75 to $47, the Times reported. The sale would bring Ackman's  holding to 25 million shares, according to the report. Zoetis's stock is down almost 3 percent this year, closing at $46.56 a share Tuesday.
SolarCity needs to wake up and face reality, especially after it horrendous first quarter, CNBC's Jim Cramer said Tuesday.
"This is a company that I regard in a first-class crisis that acts as if everything is fine," Cramer said on "Squawk on the Street" Tuesday. "You know I'm an aficionado of conference calls. You may have found the bottom. Yes, [this is] the worst conference call of 2016."
"This is one where the CEO starts [saying] bookings are great, but they came in a lot lower than expected, so they're not as great as we thought."
The company did not immediately respond to CNBC's request for comment.
Gap is in big trouble, as the once-mighty retailer has lost its way, Deutsche Bank retail analyst Paul Trussel said Tuesday.
"Gap used to be a core, basic, apparel retailer with low prices and great product for the family. I think there's other retailers that frankly have taken that place within the retail sector," he told CNBC's "Squawk on the Street."
Trussel added that retailers like H&M and Ross Stores have taken considerable market share from Gap. "This is all happening while the consumer has been very willing to buy more and more on their mobile device," he said.
Gap did not immediately respond to CNBC's request for comment.
Market watcher Dennis Gartman said Tuesday that U.S. oil prices may move to a premium over Brent because of the Canadian wildfire, which is weighing heavily on North American output.
"The problem in Alberta now is not that the oil facilities themselves are under duress; it's that the housing for the people working on the oil fields has been effectively decimated," the editor of The Gartman Letter told CNBC's "Worldwide Exchange."
Despite the supply disruptions, West Texas Intermediate crude is not rallying too significantly, which Gartman attributes to comments from the new Saudi oil minister, Khalid al-Falih.
"[Al-Falih] suggested that over the course of the next 10 or 15 years, crude oil would eventually end up being worthless and the Saudis have no choice but to pump a lot more oil to get what value they can out of it right now," Gartman said.
As for energy's impact on stocks, Gartman believes attempts to prove the two move in tandem is amusing. "They move in contravention with one another, not in convention. Weaker crude should give way to rising stock prices and we will eventually get back there."
Michael Bell, global market strategist at JPMorgan Asset Management, told CNBC's "Worldwide Exchange" in a separate interview Tuesday he believes the opposite is true. "As long as oil prices don't continue to fall, that will lead to stabilization."
Specifically, Bell points to the correlation of oil prices and earnings. "The fall in the oil price has been one of the main reasons that you have seen a fall in U.S. earnings."
"With the dollar also showing signs of stabilization," he continued, "we think that those two factors will be helpful by the end of the year. We expect earnings to be up mid-single digits."
Shares of Amazon  hit an all-time high Tuesday after Bernstein raised its price target on the company to $1,000, calling current consensus estimates "shockingly low."
The target is the highest of any firm listed on FactSet.
Bernstein upped its former $770 target, citing strong first-quarter results, a strong revenue trajectory from retail and cloud businesses and expanding gross margins. Shares of Amazon were up 3.4 percent Tuesday, closing at $703.07 after hitting an all-time high just above $699.
A choking of global oil supply has come to the fore of investors' minds, pushing prices up for both Brent and West Texas Intermediate.
The risk of losing an estimated 2.5 million barrels of daily production has, for now, eclipsed the fact that global inventories are sloshing around at peak levels.
The wildfire in Canada that skirts tar sand oil sites has knocked out around 1 million barrels of production per day, according to Barclays.
But one analyst at the bank said Tuesday that Canadian supply is in fact secondary to investor minds.
"We could potentially see the Canadian supply, the close to 1 million barrels per day that's offline, come back over the end of this month if not the next.
"But it's the Nigeria one that's really spooking markets given that's close to 400,000-500,000 barrels per day which is only expected [back] after July now," said oil analyst, Miswin Mahesh.
In Nigeria, a group known as the Nigerian Delta Avengers, has reportedly taken out a critical piece of underwater equipment at Chevron's offshore 'Okan' facility.
Chevron has acknowledged that the facility is now shut and the disruption has stopped extraction of roughly 90,000 barrels per day.
Macy's investors may not want to count on the beleaguered department store making its much-needed recovery in the first quarter.
According to fresh estimates from Retail Metrics, Wall Street expects the big-box chain to report declines in four major metrics — earnings per share, operating income, revenue and comparable sales — in what would be a disappointing kickoff to the new fiscal year.
Ken Perkins, president of Retail Metrics, said Macy's is expected to earn 38 cents a share in the recently ended quarter when it reports earnings before the opening bell Wednesday. That would represent a decline of nearly 50 percent from the prior-year period. Retail Metrics is also calling for a year-over-year operating income decline of 40 percent, a 4.4. percent drop in revenue, and a comparable-sales slide of 3.2 percent.
Homeland security is one of this election's most hotly debated issues, and traders believe the issue will help defense stocks soar even higher.
"For the first time, these applause lines have [centered on statements that say] defense postures need to be rebuilt," Crossing Wall Street editor Eddy Elfenbein said Monday on CNBC's "Trading Nation." "We see threats from people like Putin [and] trouble in China, people realize that maybe some of the cutbacks since the end of the Gulf War have gone too far. We need to work on rebuilding our defense."
Since the beginning of election season, candidates on both sides have spoken extensively about the need to strengthen the American military. Presumptive Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump has promised that "we will spend what we need to rebuild our military" because "our military dominance must be unquestioned." Hillary Clinton pledges to "ensure the United States maintains the best-trained, best-equipped, and strongest military the world has ever known," according to her campaign's website.
As a result, defense is not just on voters' minds, but on investors' as well.
"There's been a lot of talk lately that the U.S. defense posture needs to be beefed up a little bit," Elfenbein said. "A lot of the planes, a lot of the ships are outdated and they need to be modernized. [When you look at] stocks like Lockheed Martin and Northrup Grumman, they've been on a strong uptrend lately and I think given the fundamentals and given the talks, it's likely that that trend will continue."
"The way I think investors are thinking about this election is infrastructure [spending] is going to go up no matter who gets elected. Defense is going up no matter who gets elected," Daniel Clifton, head of policy research at Strategas, said in a recent interview with CNBC.com.
Lockheed Martin and Northrup Grumman have risen 11 percent and 15 percent in the past two months, respectively.
As the first-quarter earnings season wraps up, a group of stocks could be ready to pop, if history is any guide.
Of the 443 S&P 500 companies that have reported first-quarter results so far, 72 percent beat EPS estimates, 7 percent matched and 21 percent missed. Of those names, 53 percent of companies disclosed revenue figures above analysts' expectations, according to Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S.
While betting on stocks ahead of earnings is often a difficult trade, investors tend to look at historical data to make assessments about the future.
Here are some of the names that could benefit from a post-earnings surge.
It's been a frustrating couple of months for investors as stocks continue to churn in a narrow range. But according to one trader who relies heavily on the charts and options market, a bounce could be in store, and he has a strategy that could make a lot off of a small move.
"I think it's time to move into a countertrend trade to the long side," Todd Gordon told CNBC's "Trading Nation" on Monday. "I think we do have an established [long-term] downtrend, but we are beginning to bounce back from oversold levels."
Looking at the SPY, the ETF that tracks the S&P 500, Gordon noted that the index has recently rallied off of support at the $204 level. "There's a chance that we are going to get a countertrend rally right back into resistance around $208," explained the founder of TradingAnalysis.com. "As a short-term trade, I'd like to take advantage of this little oversold bounce up into [the top end of the trading range]."
Read MoreThe Nasdaq vs. the S&P: Why one looks like a way better value
To leverage the move, Gordon turned to the options market. Specifically, he bought a call spread, a bullish strategy where a trader will buy a call and then sell a higher strike call to offset the cost. In Gordon's case, he purchased the SPY May 207/208 call spread for 44 cents. Gordon is hoping the ETF will rise to the call that he is short — or in this case $208 in the next nine trading sessions.
In this specific wager, the 44 cents Gordon is spending is the most he can lose on the trade. But if the SPY is above that short call strike by expiration, he can make a total of 56 cents — meaning he could more than double his money if the S&P 500 raises just 1 percent by May 20.
"We are playing a short-term bounce in the SPY in what could be a more established downtrend," added Gordon. "We want to be nimble with this trade."
Check out which companies are making headlines before the bell:
Allergan — The drugmaker announced a new $10 billion share buyback program, planning to execute up to half that amount over the next four to six months. Separately, Allergan reported adjusted quarterly profit of $3.04 per share, beating estimates by 3 cents a share.
Lumber Liquidators — The flooring maker lost an adjusted 35 cents per share for its latest quarter, 11 cents a share wider than expected. Revenue was below forecasts, as well. Lumber Liquidators saw same-store sales fall 13.9 percent compared to a year earlier.
Gap Inc. — The apparel retailer posted lower-than-expected quarterly sales and also issued an earnings warning. Gap has been hurt by weak demand at both the Banana Republic and Old Navy chains.
Dean Foods — The company is buying the manufacturing and retail ice cream business of Friendly's Ice Cream for $155 million in cash. Separately, Dean beat estimates by 7 cents a share, with adjusted quarterly profit of 45 cents per share. However, revenue was very slightly below forecasts.
Norwegian Cruise Line — The cruise ship operator matched estimates with adjusted quarterly profit of 38 cents per share. Revenue was below Street forecasts, however, due in large part to softness in the European market.
Hasbro — The toymaker's stock was downgraded to "neutral" from "overweight" at Piper Jaffray, which said the stock is fairly priced heading into a time of year that is traditionally off season for the toy industry.
Stamps.com — The internet postage service earned an adjusted $1.72 per share for its latest quarter, far above estimates of $1.06 a share. The company also raised its full-year outlook, as it continues to successfully integrate recent acquisitions.
SolarCity — SolarCity posted an adjusted loss of $2.56 per share, wider than the $2.32 a share expected by analysts. The solar company's revenue did beat Street forecasts, but the company also cut its forecast for solar panel installations for 2016.
LendingClub — The online lender remains in the news, following yesterday's ouster of CEO Renaud Laplanche. The Wall Street Journal reports that board member and former Morgan Stanley CEO John Mack joined Laplanche is investing in an outside fund in which the company was also considering an investment.
United Continental — United reported a 1.9 percent drop in revenue passenger miles for April compared to a year earlier. The airline maintained its prior forecast for a 6.5 percent to 8.5 percent decline for the second quarter, pointing to a stronger dollar, travel reductions from oil industry customers, and other factors.
Rackspace — Rackspace reported quarterly profit of 37 cents per share, 15 cents a share above estimates. Revenue was essentially in line with expectations. The cloud computing company, however, gave a lower-than-expected revenue outlook for the current quarter. Rackspace is in the midst of a transition to an emphasis on services.
Hertz Global — Hertz lost 12 cents per share for its latest quarter, 11 cents a share wider than expected. The car rental giant's revenue also fell below forecasts. Hertz has been impacted by a worldwide decline in rental prices, but it continues to back its prior 2016 forecast as it cuts costs.
Zoetis — Zoetis is on the watch list following a New York Times report that investor Bill Ackman's Pershing Square is cutting its stake in the animal vaccine maker. Pershing is said to be selling 16.85 million shares, which would cut its stake to 25 million shares.
Nokia — Nokia reported lower-than-expected sales of telecom equipment for its first quarter, and it also said its full-year earnings would fall as demand for mobile equipment weakens in key markets. This marks the first earnings report for Nokia since it took control of Alcatel-Lucent in January.
Baidu — Baidu was ordered by China regulators to change its advertising practices. That follows an investigation into the death of a college student who had cancer and had taken a therapy found through a Baidu ad.
Microsoft — Microsoft is shutting down its China web portal, preferring to focus on software and services for Windows 10 devices.
The S&P 500 is roughly flat on the month and the year and the CBOE Volatility Index is back near its 2016 low. How can investors still score big returns if it's a sideways summer?
Let's see what works in this type of environment. Using hedge fund analytics tool Kensho, CNBC Pro screened for which sectors did well during months where the S&P 500 trades within a plus or minus 2 percent range.
So these are the stocks that perform well when the market goes nowhere.
Consider 2015 to be the year the hedge-fund industry completed the crossover to the digital age.
Computerized trading strategies helped the nearly $3 trillion industry's biggest players reap the biggest profits. Fully six of the top eight moneymakers for the year use so-called quant approaches to generate profits.
Tops among them were Ken Griffin at Citadel and James Simons at Renaissance Technologies, both of whom reeled in $1.7 billion according to the year's Institutional Investor's Alpha Rich List of the top hedge fund managers. (Get the full top 25 list and analysis here.)
Overall, it was a tough slog for the industry. Returns were middling, with the HFRI fund weighted composite index falling 1 percent, only the fourth full-year decline since 1990. Assets, however, edged higher, rising $51.7 billion to $2.97 trillion, according to HFR.
It took less to make the Rich List, with the median income at $275 million, the lowest in five years. The average stood at $517,.6 million, a slight uptick from 2014 but off 40 percent from the $846 million in 2013. To be considered for inclusion on the list, managers had to make $135 million, the lowest since 2011.
Nearly half of hedge funds lost money, according to Institutional Investor, and some familiar names on the Rich Lists of years past were missing, including John Paulson of Paulson and Co., Leon Cooperman of Omega Advisors, and Daniel Loeb at Third Point.
These industry leaders , however, did make the list, and qualified for the top 10:
One of the most widely forecast trends in the investing world has finally come to pass.
In 2016, value stocks have risen 2.4 percent as measured by the S&P 500 value index, while the S&P 500 growth index has slid 1 percent.
This is in contrast to the dramatic outperformance of growth stocks that have become de rigueur recently. Over the past 10 years, growth stocks have risen 90 percent, while value stocks are up just 26 percent.
As a dramatic illustration of growth's gains, Eddy Elfenbein of the Crossing Wall Street blog points out that if the S&P as a whole had managed to keep pace with its growth component, it would currently be trading at 3,800, rather than its current 2,060.
"But since late January, everything changed, and value is once again popular," Elfenbein said Monday on CNBC's "Power Lunch."
And, he would add, with good reason.
"Value provides less volatility, you get better dividend yields, and it's also better if the economic outlook is uncertain," Elfenbein said. "So there are a lot of good things pushing toward value right now."
Read MoreThe Nasdaq vs. the S&P: Why one looks like a way better value
A few stock-specific factors are generating the performance disparity as well. The most heavily weighted stock in the S&P 500 growth index is struggling Apple, while the biggest in the value counterpart is ExxonMobil, which has shone in 2016 amid oil's bounce.
Still, valuecentric investors probably shouldn't throw themselves a party just yet.
"Value is indeed having a very good start to the year. It's also had the benefit of a terrific starting point coming into the year, coming off its worst [relative] level in 10 years," Oppenheimer technical analyst Ari Wald said Monday on "Power Lunch," furnishing the below chart to make his point.

William A. Ackman, the billionaire founder of the hedge fund Pershing Square Capital Management, is paring back a stake in a health care stock. But it is not the one that has been generating lots of negative headlines.
On Monday, Pershing set out to sell 16.85 million shares in Zoetis, the former animal health arm of Pfizer, for a price range of $46.75 to $47 per share, according to two people with direct knowledge of the deal who requested anonymity because they are not authorized to speak publicly.
The transaction is expected to be valued around $800 million and will be managed by Bank of America Merrill Lynch and Credit Suisse. Pershing will continue to own 25 million shares in the company.
More from The New York Times: Donald Trump's Contradictory Pick for Fund-Raiser Treasury Secretary Jacob Lew Puts a Face on Puerto Rico Debt Crisis WilliamAckman Sets Out to Sell $800 Million in Shares of Zoetis
The hedge fund paid $1.5 billion for an 8.5 percent stake in Zoetis in November 2014, according a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The stock has since gained 8.6 percent. Last year, Zoetis added William F. Doyle, a representative for Pershing Square, to its board of directors. On April 22, Pershing Square said Mr. Doyle, would step down from the board of Zoetis this week.
Momentum is growing, especially among millennials, to put your money where your values are. Spotlighting this trend is the recent Chan Zuckerberg Initiative, through which 31-year-old Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg and his wife Priscilla Chan, also 31, have pledged $45 billion to improve the world.
This altruistic interest is being reflected in the fast-growing socially responsible investing universe, which has evolved from primarily positive or negative screening of investments to also include so-called impact investments.
A weakening dollar has eased concerns about U.S. companies' overseas performance, but Evercore ISI portfolio strategist Dennis Debusschere warned on Tuesday that bad news can only translate into good news for so long.
The greenback has weakened because central banks have been suppressing volatility and U.S. economic data have been deteriorating, Debusschere said. As a result, economic performance and volatility have diverged, he added.
Shares of Apple are coming off of Friday's new 52-week low as investors worry about slow growth, especially abroad. But some portfolio managers say Apple is set to bear more fruit than the Street may realize.
"Things aren't as bad as everybody thinks," Dan Morgan, senior portfolio manager at Synovus Trust told CNBC's "Squawk on the Street" Monday. "They have a tremendous amount of room to grow."
Apple is facing negative headwinds after its first quarterly sales drop in more than a decade. Shares of the tech company have fallen almost 12 percent since April 26, when the company reported earnings and revenue that missed analyst expectations, as well as lowered guidance.
In particular, Morgan acknowledged trouble for Apple in China, calling it an "icy path" for the company. "But that also means there's tremendous room to grow," he said. "If they can go from 13 percent to 20 percent market share, that would be huge."
With a dividend yield above 2 percent, Morgan said he's happy to wait for Apple to bounce back, especially while the 10-year treasury note yield are around 1.8 percent.
The dollar's five-day rally and China growth concerns are making for an ugly day in commodities and commodity stocks.
Iron ore and rebar (reinforced steel) both traded limit down (6 percent) in trading on China's Dalian Commodity Exchange and the Shanghai Futures Exchange, respectively.
Weak trade data was the primary problem, but there are other issues as well.
"Halftime Report" trader Josh Brown bought Adobe Systems on Monday for his CNBC Pro model portfolio.
Adobe Systems is the leading content creation software company. It is undergoing a business model transition away from traditional desktop applications to cloud-based subscriptions.
In other moves, Brown sold McCormick & Co and Jim Lebenthal sold ProShares VIX Short-Term Futures ETF.
Read below to find out why Brown made the trades.
Trying to predict the market so far this year is akin to picking winning lottery numbers. Gold and oil surged, the dollar tanked, and stocks have been in and out of correction territory — all as investors look for clues as to when the Federal Reserve will raise interest rates. For those uncertain as to where to put their money, top technician Carter Worth has a "safe" section of the market to hide.
"I think REITs are a heads you win, tails you win [situation]," Worth told CNBC's "Options Action" on Friday. "I think this is a defensive way to play equities."
Real estate investment trusts have been a major beneficiary of low interest rates around the world, which has sent ETFs like the IYR — the Dow Jones U.S. Real Estate ETF — surging nearly 20 percent in just the last three months. And as Worth pointed out, with rates on the U.S. 10-year yield in a clear downtrend since the mid-1980s, there's "no real risk of a great move up in rates."
Furthermore, Worth noted that since the bull market began in 2009, REITs have outperformed the S&P 500 7 out of 8 years. "We're talking about an aggregate that's outperforming the market on a consistent basis and on an absolute basis," said Worth, head of technical analysis at Cornerstone Macro. "And day to day, it looks quite good, like it's going to break out."
The IYR has been on a tear of late, rallying to a more than one-year high, and has vastly outperformed the S&P 500 since the February low.
According to Worth, this could be just the start of a massive move higher. "I think this is the beginning of what could be a period of meaningful outperformance," he said. "I like this as a long [trade]. It's a defensive way to play equities in an environment where rates are going nowhere," added Worth.
Shares of Baidu closed down more than 2 percent Monday after Chinese regulators announced limits on the company's lucrative health care advertisements.
The restrictions came in response to public outcry over the death of a student who underwent experimental cancer treatment he found through the search engine's ads.
Twenty-one-year-old Wei Zexi was treated at the Second Hospital of Beijing Armed Police Corps but the treatment failed, Reuters reported. Before he died in mid-April, Wei used social media to accuse the hospital of making misleading claims about the effectiveness of its treatments and Baidu of promoting false medical claims.
As the beaten-down energy sector rebounded mightily this year, financial stocks remained in a rut. In fact, bank stocks are the worst-performing slice of the market in 2016. Morgan Stanley's stock strategist believes that is unfair.
"We've been preferring financials to energy based on better trends in growth in shareholder returns, better management teams and price action that has materially deviated from history," Morgan Stanley chief U.S. equity strategist Adam Parker wrote in a note to clients Monday.
Parker explains there's been an overreaction to the downside for bank stocks relative to the flattening of the yield curve, a major benchmark for the group's profitability. Meanwhile, energy stocks have rallied more than warranted by the oversold bounce in oil prices, according to the strategist.
The Financial Select Sector SPDR Fund fell 3 percent year-to-date through Friday compared with the Energy Select Sector SPDR Fund up 8 percent and S&P 500 up 1 percent, respectively.
Here are the Morgan Stanley "overweight" rated financial stocks the strategist recommends.
U.S.-listed shares of Chinese e-commerce firm JD.com fell about 7 percent Monday after the company reported weaker-than-expected quarterly revenues and grew at its slowest pace ever, weighed by a slowdown in China's economy
JD.com posted first-quarter revenues of about $8.27 billion, up 47 percent year over year. Analysts polled by Reuters expected the company to post revenues of about $8.33 billion.
The company also said it expects second-quarter sales to range between $9.85 billion and $10.16 billion, representing a growth rate between 40 percent and 44 percent.
In an exclusive strategy session only for Pro subscribers, Nicholas Colas, chief market strategist at Convergex Group, revealed some of the lesser-known metrics he uses to successfully value individual stocks and the overall market.
Looking at data available to anyone, such as income tax receipts, can often give astute investors a better read of the economy than the official monthly reports everyone else watches, according to the Wall Street veteran.
During his conversation with CNBC's Mike Santoli, Colas also discusses value versus growth strategies, dividend stocks and how to invest when easy money from central banks seems to be driving all the action.
The Nasdaq composite has just concluded its third consecutive week of losses, and at this point, the index looks to be more appealingly valued than the S&P 500, according to one investor.
"The thing is right now, the Nasdaq actually looks attractive," Erin Gibbs, equity chief investment officer at S&P Investment Advisory, said Friday on CNBC's "Power Lunch." "We're still looking at really good growth over the next 12 months, about 90 percent, and it's trading at about 18 times [expected forward] earnings. It's starting to look cheap."
While the S&P 500's price-earnings ratio is slightly lower, that index's smaller earnings growth prospects mean that the Nasdaq looks preferable.
Over the past three weeks, the Nasdaq is down 3.7 percent, while the S&P 500 is off by less than 1 percent.
"Any time the Nasdaq goes below 18 [forward P/E], it's been a really good buy for the past three years. Though these sell-offs could be really great buying opportunities, I'd let the sentiment keep rolling out. But if it goes a little farther, it's time to buy," she said.

However, Gina Sanchez, founder of Chantico Global, warns that the Nasdaq's growth will ultimately be determined by the broader U.S. economic outlook, which doesn't look particularly promising in her view.
"Every year we've started with expecting more out of earnings, more out of the economy, and ending up on a sour note at the end of each year," she said Friday on "Power Lunch." "We're probably headed in that direction, and I think that's what the market is reacting to at the Nasdaq; it's reacting to a shift in sentiment that's been continuing to shift."
For that reason, the Nasdaq is not as cheap as it looks, in Sanchez's view.
"We're looking at probably ending the year at sub-2 percent growth for GDP for the U.S. That has an impact on your expectation for growth, generally. So is 18 times forward cheap? I think you're going to have to calibrate that to what you're expecting going forward."
Read MoreNasdaq falls 1%, closes at lowest since mid-March despite Apple gain
Tyson Foods reported better-than-expected quarterly results thanks to its acquisition of Hillshire Brands, CNBC's Jim Cramer said Monday.
"Remember that Hillshire deal? … It turned out to be inexpensive for them," Cramer said on "Squawk on the Street," adding the deal helped the company's top and bottom line.
On Monday, Tyson reported second-quarter adjusted earnings per share of $1.07 on revenue of $9.17 billion. Analysts polled by Reuters expected the firm to post earnings of 95 cents on revenue of $9.04 billion.
Weak U.S. tax receipts suggest things are not so good for the U.S. consumer even as employment continues to grow, Deutsche Bank Chief U.S. Economist Joseph LaVorgna said Monday.
The three-month moving average for U.S. jobs gains remains "good" at around 200,000 positions per month, but growth in tax receipts has fallen from about 6 percent a year ago to 3 percent today, LaVorgna said.
"That tells me income growth is a lot weaker than what official numbers show, which would explain why consumer spending has been so soft," he told CNBC's "Squawk Box."
While Wall Street has been stalled for a year and a half, Main Street has been bustling.
The Standard & Poor's 500 index is now at levels first reached near Thanksgiving 2014. Since then, 4.1 million new jobs have been created, average hourly earnings for American workers are up 3.9 percent, real personal spending has climbed 3.6 percent and consumer loans outstanding are 8.3 percent higher.
The steady (if belated) improvement in fortunes for the typical U.S. household has come as corporate profits have slipped and investors who feast on them have struggled to muster enthusiasm over stocks.
Corporate profits as a proportion of the total U.S. economy have ebbed from historic highs above 10 percent in late 2014 to 9 percent at the end of 2015. And how's this for a turnabout? Since the real economy started gaining ground on the corporate and financial sectors in late 2014, Goldman Sachs shares have shed 16 percent of their value and the compensation set aside per Goldman employee was down more than 12 percent.
This Main Street over Wall Street theme didn't come entirely as a shock. Hints were spreading in late 2014, and six months ago 
 it still seemed a trend worth heeding.
Check out which companies are making headlines before the bell:
HCP — The health care real estate investment trust will spin off its HCR ManorCare portfolio into a separate, publicly traded REIT specializing in nursing and assisted living properties.
Lending Club — The online lending marketplace said its CEO Renaud Laplanche had resigned after the board determined he had violated the company's business practices. He'll be replaced on an interim basis by President Scott Sanborn.
Tyson Foods — Tyson earned an adjusted $1.07 per share for its latest quarter, with revenue also beating estimates. The beef and poultry producer said it was pleased with its results in what typically is the most challenging quarter of the year.
Southwest Airlines — The airline reported a 4.7 percent increase in revenue passenger miles in April compared to a year ago. Southwest also had a load factor of 83.4 percent, its highest ever for April.
Teva Pharmaceutical — The drugmaker earned an adjusted $1.36 per share for its latest quarter, beating estimates by 19 cents a share. Revenue also beat forecasts, with generics continuing to drive results despite no new introductions during the quarter.
Berkshire Hathaway — Warren Buffett's firm missed estimates on both the top and bottom lines. Buffett had warned at last weekend's annual meeting that a slump in shipments at the company's Burlington Northern Santa Fe railroad unit would drag down results.
Walt Disney — Disney's "Captain America: Civil War" topped the weekend box office with a very strong $181.8 million in North American ticket sales. That performance was the fifth-best domestic weekend opening of all time.
Twitter — Twitter has cut off U.S. intelligence agencies from its service that examines its entire output, according to The Wall Street Journal.
Facebook — Facebook won a court battle in China over its trademark, in a case involving a Chinese beverage company that owned the trademark "face book."
Tribune Publishing — The newspaper publisher adopted a shareholder rights plan, following its rejection of Gannett's roughly $400 million takeover bid. Tribune has been urged by Oaktree Capital, its second largest shareholder, to negotiate with Gannett about a possible takeover.
Oracle, Alphabet — Oracle and Alphabet's Google unit are back in court today, in a long-running copyright dispute. Oracle has accused Google of using portions of its Java software without permission.
Depomed — The drugmaker may once again be a target of Horizon Pharma if Depomed is forced to put itself up for sale, according to the New York Post. Depomed successfully fought off a takeover bid from Horizon late last year.
General Electric  — GE will seek more acquisitions in oil and gas after the failure of Halliburton-Baker Hughes merger removed an opportunity to buy assets. Chief Financial Officer Jeff Bornstein told Bloomberg that GE had been in talks for businesses the two oilfield services giants were planning to sell.
The shakeup in Saudi Arabia's cabinet this weekend that brought Ali al-Naimi's 20-year tenure as oil minister to an end is another sign the kingdom is prepared to flex its muscles in the Middle East, Again Capital founding partner John Kilduff said Monday.
Investor activism has been making headlines in the U.S. since the end of the global financial crisis, with the likes of Carl Icahn and Bill Ackman acquiring stakes in a company with the aim of overhauling corporate strategy – and possibly management.
While smaller, troubled firms were first to feel pressure from activists, the targets now often include large multinationals – even ones with strong records of performance, such as Apple. And U.K. companies are not immune to the trend. There has been a 170 percent increase in activist investor campaigns in Britain since 2011.
In just the last few months, the likes of Alliance Trust and Rolls-Royce have been affected by shareholders pushing for seats on the board, margin improvements, greater efficiency or even a complete change in strategy. GSK has more recently come under pressure to shake up its structure and senior management team.
Amazon.com is the best long-term story in the market right now, investment pro Robert Luna said Friday. He's even predicting the e-commerce giant will hit $1,000 a share by the end of 2017.
"This is a company that is basically dominating its marketplace. It's laying competitors to waste," the CEO and chief investment officer of SureVest Wealth Management said in an interview with CNBC's "Closing Bell."
"This is a company as a long term investor I believe that everybody has to own right now."
Luna thinks the stock, which closed up 2.25 percent at $673.95 Friday, could hit $800 a share by the end of the year.
Drug distributor AmerisourceBergen has been one of the most consistent winners in the market during the past few years. Yet, over the course of the past year, Jim Cramer has watched as it transformed into a total house of pain.
"The stock has gone from market darling to dirty dog in almost no time flat," the "Mad Money" host said.
Is there any hope in sight for one of the largest drug distributors in America?
AmerisourceBergen hit an all-time high of $121 a little over a year ago, up from $14 in generational lows of 2009. It has now lost 26 percent since the beginning of 2016. The company is one of the largest pharmaceutical sourcing and distribution services in the world, and handles approximately 20 percent of all drugs sold and distributed throughout the U.S.
Gold enjoyed a substantial jump on Friday, after a disappointing jobs report made traders more skeptical about the prospect of the Federal Reserve raising rates in the near future.
The Bureau of Labor Services reported Friday that 160,000 jobs were created in April, missing economists' expectations and sending a signal that the American economy is not as strong as has been anticipated.
This, in turn, is reducing expectations about rate hikes from the Fed. For instance, Bank of America Merrill Lynch's economic research team no longer believes the U.S. central bank will raise its rate target in June and again in December; it believes we will only see one hike, in September.
"Following a string of disappointing data, the April jobs report has pushed us to change our Fed call," the BofAML team wrote Friday. "There has been a loss of momentum in the U.S. data."
Read MoreJob growth shifts to slower gear along with economy
The perception that the Fed would be reticent to raise rates sent short-term Treasury yields sinking Friday, and helped gold. The yellow metal tends to dislike rate hikes, since higher rates mean that nonyielding gold becomes a less attractive investment as compared to bonds.
"Gold is reacting positively to the jobs number, so with record high open interest for the year in gold," the metal is expected "to finally close over $1,300," RBC Wealth Management precious metals expert George Gero wrote Friday.
Indeed, gold rose as high as $1,297.70 in early afternoon trading, putting it markedly close to the widely watched round number, and close to the highest level in 20 months.
If expectations for rate hikes continue to be pushed into the future, gold could manage to add to its 22 percent rally for 2016. As on Friday, the fed funds futures implied a one-third chance of a September rate hike, according to CME's FedWatch tool.
Based on what the April number indicates about the Fed's policy path, "the next bull market in gold is starting," predicted RJO Futures senior market strategist Phillip Streible.
A more-than-10 percent slide in Tesla's stock price this year is evidence there's something about the electric automaker investors don't quite like. But Josh Spencer, manager of T. Rowe Price's Global Technology Fund, is not one of those investors.
"I love everything about Tesla. I think it's a revolutionary company, addressing an enormous market with differentiated technology," he told CNBC's "Fast Money: Halftime Report" on Friday.
He said the consumer response to Tesla's Model 3 has been fantastic, and he believes the more affordable electric car will drive significant growth in the future. The company has received nearly 400,000 orders for the Model 3, according to Tesla CEO Elon Musk.
That outlook was at odds with the assessment of Jim Cramer, who on Thursday said Musk was getting away with "financial murder" by fabricating outlandish guidance that he knows he cannot match.
Friday marked the sixth anniversary of the Flash Crash, where the Dow Jones Industrial Average fell almost 1,000 points in just a few mysterious minutes. Since that time, Jim Cramer says things have not gotten any better.
On the day of the Flash Crash, buyers seemingly vanished from the market, allowing a frightening plunge to occur right before the world's eyes.
Cramer instantly recognized the toxic combination of aggressive short-sellers and high-frequency traders who vanished whenever the selling got intense as the root cause of the crash.
Even as the market recovered from its losses that day, the incident wrecked the confidence of home gamers after they couldn't withstand losing that much value in the blink of an eye.
"Nothing has really changed to stop the market from once again losing its integrity in 15 minutes of insane, manipulated trading," the "Mad Money" host said.
The American economy created 160,000 jobs in April — and either way you look at it, that's the wrong number, CNBC's Jim Cramer said Friday on "Squawk on the Street."
"This is not the number that a bull would want," Cramer said. "There's just not enough strength, and it's unfortunate that it's coming at a time that we're getting numbers out of China that were not as strong as we had had the previous month."
Employment growth in April fell to a seven-month low, signaling that the economy's job engine may be shifting into a lower gear.
The economy added just 160,000 jobs in April, while the unemployment rate remained at 5 percent. That is well below the 202,000 jobs expected by economists and the 12-month average payroll growth of 232,000. Bright spots were a slightly better-than-expected wage gain of 2.5 percent year over year, and a 0.4 percent increase in private sector hours worked.
"It really puts off the Fed," said John Briggs, head of rate strategy at RBS. "We've had a number that misses then the trend comes back. I'm not ready to say Q1 weakness has totally filtered through to Q2, but it's a concern."
Read MoreEconomy whiffs on jobs creation
Both Barclays and Bank of America Merrill Lynch said that the report eliminates any chance of a June Fed  hike, and that it now expects just one rate increase this year — in September. Goldman Sachs, which had expected 240,000 jobs, also dropped June from its rate forecast, and pointed to September for the next hike.
This week has not been kind to bank stocks.
The SPDR S&P Bank ETF (KBE) was down nearly 4 percent for the week, putting it on track for its worst weekly performance since the week of Jan. 8, when it lost more than 8 percent.
The index also dipped below its 50-day moving average on an intraday basis for the first time since April 8. The stock closed up 0.39 percent at $31.23, above the 50-day moving average of 30.93.
Bank of the Ozarks weighed on the index most, falling nearly 10 percent for the week. On Wednesday, short-selling firm Muddy Waters Capital unveiled a short position on the bank's stock, saying it was making outsized loans relative to its assets and was too heavily concentrated in real estate lending.
Atlanta Fed President Dennis Lockhart gave an extended interview with Steve Liesman on Thursday only for CNBC Pro subscribers.
Lockhart discusses:
His remarks came after his CNBC broadcast interview where he discussed his view on the potential for a June Fed rate hike.
Watch the in-depth, exclusive video with the Fed's Lockhart below.
Shares of Apple, down more than 12 percent this year, fell as much as 1 percent Friday to the lowest level since June 2014.
The stock briefly traded at $91.99, a new near two-year low. The stock closed down 0.56 percent at $92.72 and was about 1.5  percent lower for the week.
Apple, once considered a darling among Wall Street investors and analysts, has been under pressure recently. On Tuesday, the stock snapped an eight-day losing streak, its longest in nearly two decades.
The company also reported its first-ever quarterly decline in iPhone sales last week, as well as its first year-over-year quarterly sales drop since 2003.
Endo International plunged nearly 40 percent Friday after the drugmaker slashed its full-year revenue and profit forecasts, following a wider-than-expected first-quarter loss.
The pharmaceutical company said it cut its outlook due to "unanticipated" headwinds, as its Voltaren Gel faced strong competition from generics sooner than expected.
Endo also said that Brian Lortie, president of U.S. branded pharmaceuticals, will be stepping down once a successor is named.
Several analysts downgraded the stock and chopped their forecasts. Mizuho analyst Irina Koffler called the stock "toxic."
CNBC Pro highlights the top performing stocks this week and analyzes whether the good times will continue.
(The price change was calculated as of Friday morning, so it is subject to change. If one stock led multiple indexes, we profiled the second best, too.)
After a torrid run this year, metals and mining stocks are about to take a big leg lower — according to one trader.
In a sizable trade on Thursday, someone bet more than $5 million on a nearly 35 percent decline in the S&P Metals and Mining ETF, the XME. In the specific wager, the trader bought more than 50,000 of the September 20/15 put spreads for $1.12 each. Since each put option accounts for 100 shares of stock, this is a $5.6 million bet that the ETF will fall as low as $15 by September. The ETF is currently trading around $23.
The XME is up more than 50 percent in 2016, driven by massive moves from some of its biggest holdings. Cliffs Natural Resources, Coeur Mining, U.S. Steel, Consol Energy and Freeport-McMoRan are up a respective 143, 220, 140, 91 and 77 percent year-to-date.
"The XME had broken down at this $25 level. It went all the way down [to $11 a share] and then had an almost 100 percent rally back," Dan Nathan told CNBC's "Fast Money" on Thursday. The metals and mining ETF is down more than 8 percent from its 2016 high of around $25 hit on April 28. "If you look at the decline it's had in the last week and a half and then you look at the long-term downtrend, you see it's failed right below that," explained the founder of RiskReversal.com. "This kind of bet could be a downright bearish bet looking to get some leverage to the downside," he added.
The XME was higher by more than 1 percent early Friday.
Before your investment advisor was recommending that you buy Target stock, he may have been stocking shelves there. He or she may have been flipping burgers at McDonald's, or even unemployed.
Even investment professionals have to start somewhere, and investment advisor representatives are required to report  their full employment histories for the last 10 years on an ongoing basis. That includes gaps in employment and non-financial jobs they gave up years ago.
A look at the data shows where the more than 325,000 IARs registered with the SEC worked over the last decade. In the last 10 years, about 50,000 people said they were unemployed. About 10,000 worked at food service companies like McDonald's, Hooters, Starbucks or Red Lobster or for retail companies like Target or Home Depot.
One of Jack Dorsey's babies is having a very bad day.
Shares of Square plunged more than 20 percent Friday, putting it on track for its biggest daily loss ever, after the mobile payment firm reported a bigger-than-expected first-quarter loss.
The firm, one of two companies run by Dorsey, posted an adjusted quarterly loss of 14 cents a share on $379 million in revenue Thursday. Analysts had expected Square to post a loss of 9 cents a share on $344 million in revenue, according to a consensus estimate from Thomson Reuters.
SQ in 2016Source: FactSet
The loss raised further questions about Dorsey's ability to run both Square and Twitter simultaneously.
Tableau Software posted better-than-expected quarterly results, but shares slumped more than 11 percent Friday as the company reported a growth slowdown.
The data visualization company reported a significant slowdown in license growth at 14 percent, compared with 31 percent in the previous quarter, and 57 percent the quarter before that. The number did beat consensus estimates.
Tableau posted a net operating loss of $45.6 million in the first quarter. Total revenue grew 32 percent year over year at $171.7 million, also beating analyst expectations. Earnings per share beat by 9 cents. The company's international revenue was up more than 50 percent for the quarter, while it saw the second-highest quarterly addition of new members since the company was founded in 2003. The company also raised top-line expectations outlook for the fiscal year.
Slow growth and high valuations remain the two biggest problems for the stock market.
The slightly below-expectation print for the April jobs report (160,000 vs. 205,000 expected) is supportive of the market trend in the last several weeks:  that growth—both in the U.S. and internationally—has slowed somewhat in the last month or so.
You can see this in the disappointing April retail sales, where it appears that after a decent start in the first two months of the year, sales slipped in the second half of March and into April.
You can see it in the earnings commentary. If you want to know what "lower for longer" means for energy or mining companies, look at construction & engineering firm Fluor, which gets about half its revenues from the oil & gas business. They cut their full-year guidance by 8 percent as projects are getting delayed.
Bill Ackman and David Einhorn are considered top hedge fund managers in the world, but they might as well be on a seesaw this week.
Ackman, Pershing Square Capital Management's founder and CEO, first revealed his short position Herbalife in late 2012, but the company's stock has surged 37 percent since then.
He told CNBC on Monday "if you find yourself as an Herbalife employee today, my advice is that you should leave the company because this is not going to be a good thing on your resume. I'd go find another job."
But on Thursday, Herbalife said its talks with the Federal Trade Commission were in advanced stages and could face a payment of about $200 million if the long-running investigation ends in a settlement.
HLF in past 12 monthsSource: FactSet
Don't count your chickens before they hatch.
Shares of El Pollo Loco plunged more than 15 percent in early trading Friday on the back of foul (fowl?) earnings.
The grilled-chicken chain posted earnings of 17 cents a share on $94.4 million in revenue. Analysts had expected earnings of 18 cents per share on revenues of $96.6 million, according to a consensus estimate from FactSet.
The consumer discretionary ETF (XLY) is on the rise, and its new momentum leads one trader to believe that the ETF can climb even higher.
"[If we look at the daily chart] we see this clear bottoming out, and it's started to just move straight higher," said options expert Andrew Keene of AlphaShark. "It recently topped out at that $80 level. But I think it can get back to recent highs, which is $82."
Keene believes that the XLY, which opened Wednesday trading at $79.81, will hit the $82 level by June.
The XLY has been bolstered by its bigger holdings' upswings, including Amazon and McDonald's, both of which exceeded earnings forecasts and are some of the market's best performing stocks. Keene believes that longer-term trends also suggest that the XLY will keep moving up.

"We have the 50 and 100-week moving average, a clear bold channel [upward]," said Keene. "This is a pullback to the 50-week moving average, so I can use the options market to magnify my risk and rewards setup and also get a better return on investment."
Given his optimistic forecast, Keene is looking to buy the June XLY 81/82 bull call spread for $0.25.
"If it gets to $82, which is my measured move target by June, the spread would be worth $1 minus the $0.25 I paid for it," he explained. "So I have a $0.75 profit — that would be good for 300 percent return."
"If I'm wrong, all I lose is what I paid for the spread," Keene added.
Check out which companies are making headlines before the bell:
Cigna — The insurance company earned an adjusted $2.32 per share for its latest quarter, beating estimates of $2.15, though revenue was slightly below forecasts. Cigna also raised its full-year earnings forecast on strong growth for its global health care business.
IntercontinentalExchange — Goldman Sachs added the New York Stock Exchange parent to its "Conviction Buy" list, saying it represented one of the strongest earnings-growth stories in the Capital Markets sector.
Square — The mobile payments company reported a quarterly loss of 14 cents per share, 5 cents wider than estimates. Revenue did beat forecasts, and the company raised its full-year outlook. Still, investors appear to be concentrating on a surge in operating expenses.
Activision Blizzard  — Activision earned an adjusted 23 cents per share for its latest quarter, nearly doubling the consensus estimate of 12 cents. Revenue was well above forecasts, and the video game maker gave upbeat guidance for the current quarter on strong sales of its "Call of Duty: Black Ops III" game, among other factors.
Yelp — Yelp surprised investors by posting an adjusted quarterly profit of 8 cents per share. Analysts had been forecasting a loss of 16 cents per share, and the online review site operator also scored a revenue beat. Yelp also raised its full-year guidance as its unique visitor metrics improved.
Honeywell — The industrial conglomerate settled a patent dispute with Alphabet's Google unit over Google's Nest Labs operation, striking a cross-licensing agreement. Nest is a maker of internet-connected thermostats.
Wynn Resorts — Wynn reported adjusted quarterly profit of $1.07 per share, well above estimates of 83 cents, though revenue merely matched forecasts. The casino operator also saw the smallest quarterly decline in Macau revenue since the third quarter of 2014, in a sign that the slump in that region may be bottoming out.
GoPro — GoPro lost 3 cents more per share for its latest quarter than the Street had been forecasting, at 63 cents per share, though the high-definition camera maker's revenue beat forecasts. GoPro said consumer demand remains "solid," but it also announced it would delay the launch of its planned drone product.
Herbalife — Herbalife said talks with the Federal Trade Commission are at an "advanced stage," although it isn't known whether litigation or a settlement will be the outcome. If a settlement is struck, Herbalife put the likely cost at $200 million. The probe centers around whether the health care products maker's business is a pyramid scheme. Separately, Herbalife reported adjusted quarterly profit of $1.36 per share, beating consensus estimates of $1.09.
News Corp.  — News Corp. beat estimates by a penny with adjusted quarterly profit of 4 cents per share, with revenue essentially in line. The Wall Street Journal publisher's results were affected by a strong dollar and a drop in print ad sales.
Walgreens Boots Alliance — The drugstore chain announced a secondary offering of 15 million shares, involving shares held by affiliates of Kohlberg Kravis Roberts.
Facebook — Facebook lost the first round of a court case involving the company's use of biometric data, with a judge rejecting Facebook's request to dismiss the suit.
Medivation — Medivation could receive an improved takeover bid from French drug maker Sanofi if it agrees to engage in talks. Sanofi said if the U.S. company did not agree to negotiations, it would consider going directly to shareholders and trying to oust Medivation's board of directors. Medivation has maintained that the current Sanofi offer undervalues the company.
Weyerhaeuser  — Weyerhaeuser reported adjusted quarterly profit of 24 cents per share, 3 cents above estimates, though the forest products company's revenue did fall short of Street consensus. Weyerhaeuser said it is making progress in integrating the operations of recently acquired Plum Creek Timber.
A longstanding earnings trend is finally flipping around, and that could be very positive for stocks, according to Bespoke Investment Group founder Paul Hickey.
"Heading into this earnings season, everyone was expecting earnings just to be horrible. But what we've seen throughout the reports is that ... more and more companies exceeded expectations," Hickey said Thursday on CNBC's "Futures Now."
Over the past four weeks, more companies in the S&P 1500 have experienced positive revisions than downward revisions to earnings expectations. That's been rare in the past couple of years, and could drive stocks higher, he said.

"Seven out of 10 sectors have more analysts raising forecasts than they're lowering forecasts," Hickey said. "Granted the bar was set low, but they are more apt to raise guidance this earning season than we've seen in any other earnings season really in the last five years. That's positive from a long-term perspective."
Corporate guidance is also showing a similar trend, Hickey said.
"In their reports, we're seeing more companies raise guidance than lower guidance and we haven't seen that really happen in an earnings season in five years," he said.
Despite the stronger trend, one key group of investors is hesitant to put money to work in stocks.
"Individual investors are still very negative," said Hickey. "Overall, the tone of investor sentiment is very reticent to take on risk here. And, even in the past two weeks we've seen the market slightly decline from its highs and sentiment has come in very fast."
In this month's survey of sentiment from the American Association of Individual Investors, bullish views among individual investors dropped by 5 percent to the lowest levels since the February lows.

The notion of a stronger jobs report rattling investors has been perceived as a downside risk. There's been concern that robust results could pressure the Federal Reserve to lift interest rates sooner than anticipated and bring stock prices down. But it's not a factor that should worry investors, Hickey said.
"I think we're in this stretch where good news for the economy is going to be good news for the market because we have the Fed being so dovish," he said. "Until we see a new shift in stance from [Fed Chairman] Janet Yellen, I think good news will be good news."
The jobs report Friday missed expectations. How can investors trade the number using history as a guide?
The U.S. economy created 160,000 jobs in April versus the Wall Street consensus of 202,000. Using hedge fund analytics tool Kensho, CNBC Pro screened for which securities did well over the past decade on the day when the nonfarm payrolls figure missed or beat estimates significantly.
Not everyone got caught flat-footed at the anemic level of job creation in April. In fact, many investors appeared to be bracing for it.
Stock-based funds saw huge outflows in the days leading up to Friday's nonfarm payrolls report, which showed the economy added just 160,000 new positions, or 42,000 below what Wall Street economists expected. Funds lost nearly $17 billion in investor cash, according to figures released Friday by Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
The fund exodus was more evenly distributed than usual, with exchange-traded funds surrendering $4 billion, or 0.5 percent of total assets, while mutual funds lost $13 billion. BofAML strategists labeled the move "risk-off into payrolls" as investors withdrew the most cash for a week since September.
That could explain the fairly muted market reaction to the April jobs report. Major market averages actually rose slightly at the market open Friday. The weak report caused expectations for a Fed rate hike this year to diminish even further, with traders pinning the chance of even one hike this year at just 50-50. The S&P 500 had been off 0.7 percent for the week heading into the day's trading, putting it about flat for the year.
(The following article is a CNBC Pro free preview. Click here to subscribe).
Kerrisdale Capital will target Dish Network with its new single-stock short fund, a source familiar with the situation told CNBC Thursday.
The investment firm recently raised $100 million in a new "co-investment fund" to bet against a single stock, according to a Reuters report.

The official Kerrisdale Twitter account Thursday stated the targeted company is "worth 60 percent to 80 percent" less than current prices and the report is "weeks away from actual publication."
Sahm Adrangi, Kerrisdale's chief investment officer, declined to comment.
A Dish Network spokesman issued a statement to CNBC when asked about the Kerrisdale report:
"We understand Kerrisdale is shopping a negative report on DISH and has shorted our stock in an attempt to make a short-term gain while DISH is in an FCC-mandated quiet period. We will continue to manage the business for the long-term benefit of our shareholders as we have done over the last 35 years."
Jim Cramer thinks sometimes stocks simply come down to supply and demand. When there is too much demand, a CEO can say anything and get away with financial murder. And when there isn't enough demand, nobody likes the CEO, no matter what is said.
That is exactly what Cramer sees occurring with Tesla, Apple and Fitbit.
Tesla CEO Elon Musk seems to think he can say whatever he wants and get away with it. Meanwhile, Apple CEO Tim Cook has to watch every word out of his mouth, even though he repeatedly delivers on his promises. And Fitbit CEO James Park seems to think guidance is for idiots, Cramer said.
"During any given earnings season we have executives who really push the envelope and do things that are totally outrageous. But we have never seen the likes of Elon Musk in our lives," the "Mad Money" host said.
In honor of Cinco de Mayo this year, Jim Cramer thought it would be the perfect time to re-rank beer companies, given that results from all of the industry's major players have now been reported.
"With Anheuser Busch InBev's gigantic $107 billion acquisition of SABMiller coming closer and closer to fruition, the competitive landscape in the beer business is about to change dramatically," the "Mad Money" host said.
Though Constellation Brands and Molson Coors have been his favorites lately, he decided to put all the big dogs to the test. He compared Constellation, Molson Coors, ABInBev and Boston Beer.
Shares of AmerisourceBergen fell more than 7 percent Thursday after the company lowered its full-year earnings forecast.
The drug wholesale company slashed diluted earnings per share expectations by 10 cents to $5.44. Overall results were mixed; AmerisourceBergen beat analyst estimates by 9 cents a share, earning an adjusted $1.68 per share in the second quarter for this fiscal year. Quarterly revenue was just below forecasts at $35.7 billion, up 9.3 percent year-over-year.
The Pennsylvania-based company's stock is down more than 25 percent so far this year. Shares of AmerisourceBergen traded around $77 before the close Thursday, down from its 52-week high of $116 dollars.
If you can't charge "hundreds of thousands" of dollars a year for drugs, there will be no drugs for orphan diseases, Joe Edelman, Perceptive Advisors CEO, told CNBC's "Fast Money: Halftime Report."
"I think high drug prices are actually good," Edelman said Thursday. "And the reason they're good is, let's say you have a disease. I'll use an example of Alzheimer's. Very risky to develop a drug. You want the reward to be great. ... You're not going to spend a billion dollars and take all these risks to charge the typical $10,000 a year on a drug."
Edelman's firm manages $1.3 billion in assets and was the best performing hedge fund last year, seeing a return of more than 51 percent.
Shares of several major U.S.-listed Chinese e-commerce firms rose Thursday after Alibaba Group's earnings showed continued strength in Chinese consumer spending.
"I like the results. I thought the results were good. It shows the consumer side and IT side that is not too bad," said Ilya Feygin, senior strategist and managing director at WallachBeth Capital, which has no position in Alibaba.
"Consumption seems to be good, but it's very concentrated. It's not benefiting everyone," he said.
Check out the companies making headlines after the bell Thursday:
Herbalife shares rocketed 12 percent after it apparently neared a settlement with the Federal Trade Commission in a long-running investigation of its practices. The company said it could face a payment of about $200 million and that its discussions with the FTC are in the advanced stages.
The company also reported a beat on quarterly results. Herbalife saw earnings of $1.36 per share, excluding one-time items, on revenues of $1.12 billion for the quarter. Analysts had expected the company to report earnings of $1.09 per share on revenue of $1.07 billion.
Shares of Square plummeted 13 percent after the company posted another loss in its second-ever quarterly report. The payment processing company saw a quarterly loss of 14 cents per share on revenue of $379 million. Wall Street had expected the company to post a loss of 9 cents a share on revenues of $344 million.
With the overall market trading at somewhat rich valuations despite stagnant growth, investors looking for value may need to get a bit more speculative.
Perhaps one ought to keep that thought in mind when perusing the list of the six S&P 500 stocks that are trading at the lowest valuations — based on the common price-to-expected-earnings comparison.
Shares of Kraft Heinz closed up about 4 percent Thursday, a day after reporting better-than-expected quarterly results.
The firm that makes Heinz Ketchup and Kraft Cheese posted adjusted earnings per share of 73 cents on revenue of $6.57 billion. Analysts polled by Reuters expected the company to report earnings of 62 cents on revenue of $6.47 billion.
Kraft Heinz said cost of products sold declined about 8 percent to $4.19 billion in the first quarter ended April 3, partly because of lower dairy and coffee prices.
Zynga shares rallied as much as 13 percent Thursday after first- quarter revenues topped analysts' expectations. Earnings broke even on an adjusted basis for its latest quarter, compared to forecasts of a 1 cent per share loss.
The stock closed up almost 11 percent Thursday.
Bookings were the bright spot for the online game maker. First-quarter bookings, the money spent on games by consumers, reached $182 million, up 8 percent from a year ago. Zynga also saw increased ad sales, although its customer base did decline.
When it came to guidance, Zynga gave mixed projections, with revenues below the average analyst estimate. Zynga also said it is on track to launch 10 games this year.
Elon's selling it, but Wall Street's not buying it.
Within 24 hours of Tesla laying out a new, much more aggressive production plan, analysts have roundly dismissed the possibility of the electric vehicle manufacturer coming close to hitting its new target of building a half-million vehicles in 2018.
"We do not believe Tesla will be able to achieve 500,000 units of total production in 2018," JPMorgan analyst Ryan Brinkman wrote in a research note summarizing Tesla's new forecast.
UBS analyst Colin Langan told CNBC, "It's a very challenging target and it will be very difficult to get there."
Shares of Matson  shed more than 12 percent Thursday, dragging the Dow Jones Transports index about 0.5 percent lower.
On Wednesday, the firm reported first-quarter earnings per share of 41 cents on revenue of $454.2 million. Analysts polled by Reuters expected Matson to post earnings of 42 cents on revenue of $489.8 million.
Chinese e-commerce site Alibaba beat sales estimates with 39 percent growth year-over-year for the quarter ending in March, the company said Thursday. The company's explosive growth showed no signs of slowing despite the overall slowdown in China's economy.
Still, the company is down nearly 3 percent for the year and off 0.7 percent for the past 12 months. Compare that with Alibaba's  American rival (and in some ways counterpart), Amazon. The Seattle-based company is up 57 percent over the past year.
Each is its country's biggest e-commerce company, but the similarities pretty much end there. They're fundamentally different business models operating in very different economies.
Credit Suisse put out a note to clients Wednesday that it called a "one-stop shop for the research team's best ideas." With the S&P 500 basically unchanged for the year, the clients could use the help.
Here are 10 of those top picks.
The April jobs picture could be better than current Wall Street expectations, according to Goldman Sachs economists.
That's despite a report Wednesday indicating that companies added the fewest jobs in three years. Private payrolls grew just 156,000 in April, well below the economist consensus of 195,000, according to payroll services firm ADP and Moody's Analytics.
Goldman experts, however, were unswayed by the ADP disappointment. The firm expects Friday's nonfarm payrolls report to show growth of 240,000, well above the Street expectation for 200,000 and an upward revision to Goldman's already bullish call for 225,000.
The reason: A separate report from the Institute for Supply Management that showed gains in the employment index.
Shares of Weight Watchers gained as much as 14 percent in early trading Thursday after the company reported lower-than-expected quarterly losses and the first membership uptick in four years.
The stock closed up about 3 percent after losing some of its earlier gains.
Membership grew for the first time since 2012, up 4.8 percent from the previous year, the company said Wednesday. The number of Weight Watchers members reached 3.1 million, with 11.2 percent growth in North America. Offset by membership declines in Europe, global subscribers were up 7.6 percent. Total attendance at meetings also jumped 18 percent year-over-year.
Weight Watchers also raised its full-year earnings guidance to between 80 cents and $1.05.
"Our first quarter loss was smaller than we expected, and for the first time since 2012 we grew our total subscribers year-over-year, clearly demonstrating that our business is turning around," Jim Chambers, Weight Watchers' president and CEO, said in a statement Wednesday.
Shares of Atlas Air Worldwide rose nearly 30 percent Thursday after the company unveiled a new partnership with e-commerce giant Amazon.
The stock lost some of its earlier altitude, but ended the day up nearly 27 percent.
The air logistics provider said it won a contract to provide support for Amazon's deliveries. The deal also lets Amazon buy a stake within the company of up to 20 percent at $37.50 a share over five years.
"Our agreements with Amazon to provide and to operate 20 Boeing 767-300 converted freighters, in support of the continuing expansion of Amazon's e-commerce business and to enhance its customer-delivery capabilities, are expected to be meaningfully accretive to our future earnings and cash flows. We expect this service to begin in the second half of this year, become accretive starting in 2017, and scale up to full service and full accretive benefits through 2018," Atlas Air CEO William Flynn said in a statement.
Donald Trump laid out his 100-day plan for the economy on CNBC on Thursday. From favoring low interest rates, to possibly replacing Federal Reserve chair Janet Yellen, to renegotiating the country's trade deals, the billionaire businessman and presumptive GOP presidential nominee made the case for why he is the best candidate to revive the stalled economy.
Investors have so far not reacted with their money to Trump's stated plans, though comments from Democratic presidential front-runner and favorite to win the presidency Hillary Clinton have been moving markets for more than seven months. Back in September, Clinton's tweet about "price gouging" by drug-makers sent biotech stocks tumbling.
But if Trump gains any momentum as the general election approaches, his words could start to sway asset prices. So we asked some members of CNBC's "Squawk Box" Platinum Portfolio their political proofing strategies for this volatile run-up to Nov. 8.
Nuveen Asset Management's Bob Doll said Thursday he's betting the Federal Reserve will embark on the first of two anticipated interest rate hikes in June.
Some Fed watchers believe policymakers will remain on hold next month because the Federal Open Market Committee's June meeting comes just about one week before Britain goes to the polls to vote on whether to leave the European Union.
But Doll said he believes U.K. voters will choose the devil they know and stay in the EU, reducing the risk of overseas disturbances that could keep the Fed on hold.
There's more to be gleaned from events like the Sohn Investment Conference than a simple list of things to buy, sell, or hold.
Here's a smattering of what struck me from Sohn 2016:
There is surprisingly low penetration still of synthetic rubber gloves in the medical field. People are allergic to natural rubber, but the industry has been slow to switch to synthetic gloves. Kraton Performance Polymers makes polymers used in diapers, synthetic gloves and other products, and this switch is one of many reasons that Rubric Capital Management's David Rosen thinks shares of Kraton are worth $65 to $97. The shares rose nearly 15 percent Wednesday, following his presentation, to just shy of $26.
Shares of Chesapeake Energy jumped more than 10 percent in early trading Thursday after posting quarterly earnings that met analyst expectations.
The stock gave up some of its earlier gains and closed up 1 percent.
The second-largest U.S. natural gas producer reported an adjusted first-quarter loss of 10 cents a share on Thursday, in line with Reuters estimates, and said it struck a $470 million deal with Newfield Exploration for some assets in Oklahoma.
Chesapeake said it would sell about 42,000 net acres of its fields, with current production of 3,800 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
Analysts at Sterne Agee CRT said these two factors "further dent the weakening bear case on CHK shares."
April was not a good month for L Brands, the company that owns Victoria's Secret, CNBC's Jim Cramer said Thursday.
"Have you been to Victoria's Secret lately? ...  "Many others haven't either," Cramer said on "Squawk on the Street." "[They also had] a very big guide-down today, in terms of the comp-store sales for the chain."
On Thursday, the company said its same-store sales rose 1 percent last month, well below the consensus estimate of 4.8 percent, sending the stock more than 10 percent lower in early trading.
L Brands shares ended Thursday down 12 percent.
David Einhorn is betting against one corporate stalwart and on another.
The head of Greenlight Capital said Wednesday he is short Caterpillar and long GM as the former faces a decline in some of its core businesses and the latter tightens its belt and faces a stronger future.
"While analysts are projecting a recovery in 2017 and 2018, we don't think CAT has yet hit bottom," Einhorn said at the Sohn Investment Conference in New York.
Caterpillar faces challenges from a boom-and-bust cycle in mining as well as a slowdown in China and drop in energy exploration revenues. He said the company also faces a significant sales headwind from idled equipment.
Caterpillar's stock is likely to trade at half its current value as the variables play out.
As for GM, he said the company has done a solid job in cutting costs and channeling its focus.
"GM is now focused on four brands: Chevy, Cadillac, GMC and Buick, and is financially healthy and thriving," he said.
GM is trading at too low a multiple while Caterpillar is too expensive, Einhorn added.
"The reality is we're at much closer to mid-cycle for both companies than we are a peak or trough, and investors are assigning the wrong multiple to both companies," he said.
Caterpillar was off 1.5 percent in after-hours trading while GM rose 1.3 percent.
CNBC "Halftime Report" trader Joe Terranova looked to build on his lead in CNBC Pro's model portfolio competition by adding shares of a pizza chain.
The picks from the chief market strategist at Virtus Investment Partners are up 13 percent year to date.
Here's the stock he bought along with his investment thesis:
Check out which companies are making headlines before the bell:
Merck — The drugmaker earned an adjusted 89 cents per share for the first quarter, 4 cents a share above estimates, although revenue was short of forecasts. Merck did see a negative impact from currency fluctuations, as well as a drop in sales of rheumatoid arthritis drug Remicade.
Alibaba — The China-based online retail giant saw earnings miss forecasts, but revenue did beat analyst projections and Alibaba also saw increases in the key metric of gross merchandise volume.
Limited Brands — The Victoria's Secret parent reported a 1 percent rise in comparable store sales for April, below the consensus estimate of a 4.8 percent increase.
Time Inc. — The publisher lost an adjusted 11 cents per share for its latest quarter, 3 cents a share less than expected. Its revenue exceeded Street forecasts. Time's results were helped by increases in digital advertising and by contributions from acquisitions.
Becton Dickinson — The medical products maker beat estimates by 16 cents a share, with adjusted quarterly profit of $2.18 per share. Revenue was essentially in line with expectations. The company also raised its full-year forecast.
Avon Products — The cosmetics company posted a surprise loss of seven cents per share; analysts expected a 2 cents a share profit. Revenue was very slightly above forecasts, but the company struggled to boost growth in some key overseas markets like Brazil and China.
Discovery Communications — The media company beat estimates by 2 cents a share, with quarterly profit of 42 cents per share. Revenue was in line with forecasts. The company cited strong viewership on a variety of platforms as factors contributing to its latest results.
AmerisourceBergen — The drug distributor earned an adjusted $1.68 per share for its latest quarter, 9 cents a share above estimates. Revenue was just below forecasts. AmerisourceBergen also cut its full-year forecast, with generic drug pricing pressure a key factor. The company did announce an extension of its distribution contract with Walgreens Boots, its biggest retail pharmacy customer.
Tesla — The automaker reported a quarterly loss of 57 cents per share, 1 cent smaller than expected, with revenue matching estimates. Tesla also said it was accelerating its production targets, now aiming to deliver 500,000 vehicles annually by 2018. The company had long said it would achieve that goal by 2020.
Whole Foods Market — Whole Foods beat estimates by 3 cents a share, with quarterly profit of 44 cents per share. Revenue came in marginally below forecasts. The organic grocery chain did cut its full-year profit and sales forecast, amid increasing competition and promotional activity.
Fitbit — Fitbit came in 7 cents a share above estimates, with adjusted quarterly earnings of 10 cents per share. The maker of wearable fitness devices also saw revenue beat forecasts. However, its current-quarter forecast is weaker than expected, as it spends money to promote new offerings like its Blaze smartwatch and Alta wrist band.
21st Century Fox — Fox matched estimates with adjusted quarterly profit of 47 cents per share, and the media company's revenue beat Street forecasts. Fox's results were helped by a rise in ad sales and affiliate fees.
Zynga — Zynga broke even on an adjusted basis for its latest quarter, compared to forecasts of a 1-cent-per-share loss. The online game maker saw revenue beat estimates on increased ad sales, although its customer base did decline.
TripAdvisor — TripAdvisor earned an adjusted 32 cents per share for its latest quarter, 14 cents a share below estimates. Its revenue also missed estimates. The travel website did see more hotel bookings on its website, but that impacted revenue from referrals to other travel sites.
Kraft Heinz — The company reported quarterly profit of 73 cents per share, 11 cents a share above estimates. The food maker's revenue also came in above analysts' forecasts. The company saw costs fall during the quarter, as well as seeing increased sales for its condiment and sauce products.
MetLife — MetLife missed estimates by 18 cents a share, with adjusted quarterly profit of $1.20 per share. The insurer's revenue fell short of Street estimates, as well. MetLife saw lower returns on its various investments, as well as higher expenses.
Weight Watchers — Weight Watchers lost 1-cent-per- share less than expected at 17 cents per share, although revenue for its latest quarter was below forecasts. The weight management company did raise its full-year forecast on a boost in subscriber numbers, as well as meeting attendance.
Caterpillar — Caterpillar shares are under pressure after Greenlight's David Einhorn revealed a short position in the heavy equipment maker at the Sohn Conference.
CDK Global — CDK is being pushed to streamline operations or sell itself by activist investor Elliott Management. Elliott first invested in the software company — a 2014 spinoff from ADP — last year.
Anheuser Busch Inbev — The company's $100 billion deal to buy SABMiller was cleared by Australian antitrust regulators. The beer brewer still needs clearance in Europe to proceed with the transaction.
Yahoo — Yahoo lost a 15-year partnership with AT&T, which awarded its web and mobile portal hosting contract to Synacor. Yahoo will retain hosting services for AT&T's email service.
Tribune Publishing — Tribune rejected Gannett's unsolicited takeover bid, saying it undervalues the company.
It appears that mutual funds as a group are betting big on Fed rate hikes — whether they mean to or not.
According to a report from JPMorgan's equity strategy and quantitative research group, excess mutual fund returns (that is, performance as compared to benchmarks) show a notable correlation to the 2-year Treasury yield.
Since future increases in rate targets by the Federal Reserve are the most obvious positive driver of short-term rates, the JPMorgan strategy team led by Dubravko Lakos-Bujas extrapolates that funds have an "implicit macro [view] of being long Fed expectations."
Tesla Motors on Wednesday posted quarterly results that met Wall Street's expectations and gave a bullish outlook for vehicle production on the strength of demand for its upcoming Model 3.
CEO Elon Musk also said on Tesla's earnings conference call late Wednesday that 1 million in annual production by 2020 would be his "best guess."
The electric automaker reported a first-quarter loss of 57 cents per share on $1.6 billion in revenue. The shortfall was wider than the 36 cents per share reported a year earlier, while sales climbed 45 percent from the prior-year period.
Analysts expected Tesla to report a loss of 58 cents per share on $1.6 billion in revenue, according to a Thomson Reuters consensus estimate. The company's shares rose as much as 8 percent in after-hours trading before retreating slightly.
The stock was up about 4.5 percent before the bell on Thursday. (Get the latest quote here.)
Top stock pickers Jim Chanos and David Einhorn outlined their best bets Wednesday, and some "Fast Money" traders agreed with their assessments of certain stocks.
Chanos, the noted short-seller of Kynikos Associates, told CNBC he is still betting against shares of Tesla Motors, Alibaba and Valeant Pharmaceuticals, among others. He added he has questions about the profitability of Tesla, the electric automaker.
Tesla posted quarterly results Wednesday and reported a first-quarter loss of 57 cents per share, which was wider than the shortfall in the prior-year period. However, shares rose as the company gave a bullish outlook for production, boosted by strong demand for its upcoming Model 3 car.
Ken Langone, investor and co-founder of Home Depot, said Wednesday that he is ready to support Donald Trump's presidential run if his preferred candidate drops out.
News broke in February that Langone, a GOP mega-donor, would back Ohio Gov. John Kasich's campaign. But multiple sources told NBC News on Wednesday that Kasich planned to drop out — he was the last man standing against Trump in the primary competition .
"Well, it is what it is," Langone said of Kasich's expected exit from the race, adding that he thinks "We're at a point where the American people are saying, 'Hey, forget you guys, we know what we want, we're not happy and we're going to do some drastic things.'"
Langone added that he will "absolutely" stand with Trump and that likely Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton is "absolutely not" closer to Kasich than Trump is in terms of policy.
When online marketplace Etsy came public a little over a year ago, Jim Cramer dismissed it as a hippy-dippy outfit that didn't seem to be concerned with making a profit. Now, that view has changed.
"After the spectacular quarter Etsy reported last night, I think the stock is absolutely worth speculating on," the "Mad Money" host said.
Etsy is the marketplace for unique handmade goods and was one of last year's worst performing IPOs, among many IPOs that were horrible. It went public in April last year and spiked to $30 on the first day of trading. After that, it was all downhill.
In the first few quarters as a public company Etsy's revenue growth decelerated, expenses grew and the stock fell, hitting as low as $6 on Jan. 20.
Since then, Etsy has gotten its mojo back. It reported a strong beat on Tuesday and posted its first quarterly profit since the IPO, hence why it shot up 5 percent on Wednesday.
Jeff Gundlach, the founder of Doubleline Capital, discussed negative interest rates, Donald Trump and Apple from the sidelines of the Sohn Conference 
 in New York.
"Arms manufacturers (are) probably a good idea," said Gundlach about investing around a Trump presidency. He also gave his equity and bond investment strategy for 2016 right now.
Watch the full broadcast interview in its entirety here.
Check out the companies making headlines after the bell Wednesday:
Shares of Kraft Heinz rose after quarterly earnings beat expectations. The maker of Ore-Ida potatoes and Jell-O posted earnings of 73 cents per share on revenues of $6.57 billion, higher than the 62 cents per share on $6.47 billion in revenue predicted by Thomson Reuters consensus estimates.
The company saw a boost due to significant cost savings from the merger of Kraft and Heinz. Famous billionaire Warren Buffett has openly backed the merger.
Bad decisions have been made in the debt market that will ultimately lead to good investment opportunities, noted debt investor Howard Marks said Wednesday.
"When those bad decisions are going to be put the test and fail and present opportunities to us, we never know," Marks said in an interview on "Power Lunch" from the Sohn Investment Conference.
That said, there are certain areas to watch, such as oil and gas and other metals and mining. That's where he believes the worst decisions have been made.
"People lent a tremendous amount of money to companies in those sectors … whose revenues are enormously dependent on the price of their products, which is unpredictable," said Marks, the chairman and co-founder of Oaktree Capital.
"A lot of mistakes were made. Some of them have already presented. The default rate on high-yield bonds is up and most of the increase comes in those sectors."
Starboard Value is making a move against a pharmaceutical company it says is mismanaged, CEO Jeff Smith said Wednesday.
Smith said his activist firm is looking to replace the board at Depomed, a pharma company that specializes in pain and neurology products.
While the company in recent years "has seen strong growth in many of its core products," it remains hampered by a lack of scale and an over-emphasis on remaining independent, Smith said. On the latter point, he criticized Depomed for fighting off an offer last year from Horizon Pharma, which was offering a 60 percent premium for the company.
"We are concerned that this lack of scale potentially pushes the company to make poor capital allocations and poor strategic decisions," he said Wednesday at the Ira Sohn Investment Conference in New York.
Zach Schreiber, chief investment officer of PointState Capital, famously made $1 billion on his short oil call revealed at the 2014 Sohn Conference. He gave a new short target at this year's conference Wednesday.
Priceline reported better-than-expected first-quarter earnings Wednesday, yet the travel giant's stock was down 7.5 percent on weak forward-looking guidance.
The company said its growth would slow in the second quarter as it spends more on marketing and as timing of holidays shifts traveler bookings.
Priceline expects bookings to rise as much as 18 percent in the second quarter; it say it will earn up to $12.50 per share on an adjusted basis. That's short of the 21 percent rise and $14.90 in earnings per share that Cowen analyst Kevin Kopelman said Priceline needed to forecast.
The firm's weak guidance is the second piece of negative news investors have had to digest in less than a week.
Whether it's Baidu or Alibaba, many China-based companies are making a name for themselves in the U.S. markets. Baidu is frequently called the "Google of China" while Alibaba is referred to as the "Amazon of China," but that isn't what resonates most with investors.
Each quarter these two names manage to top their already lofty expectations while maintaining an industry lead in the region. These companies regularly experience upward revisions activity, robust projected growth rates and have a steady history of beating estimates.
More from Estimize:Can you pass on Bed Bath & Beyond this quarter? Estimize webinar with Josh Brown and Sean Udall You don't want to get caught shorting these 5 stocks
Prominent hedge fund manager Larry Robbins, who heads Glenview Capital Management, spoke from the Sohn Investment Conference 
 in New York about his tough year investing and how he is positioned for the months ahead.
"Is the basic investment thesis intact? If it is, then we have to hang on," said Robbins. The money manager also shared his thoughts on drug stocks and the proposed Anthem-Cigna merger.
Watch the full broadcast interview with CNBC's David Faber.
Noted short-seller Jim Chanos is still betting against Alibaba, he told CNBC on Wednesday.
Chanos, the Kynikos Associates founder, has previously taken a bearish stance on the Chinese economy and companies exposed to it. He said he has "real questions" about financial metrics and cash flow for Alibaba, the Chinese e-commerce giant.
"We just don't see how profitable or unprofitable that business is," he told CNBC's "Fast Money: Halftime Report" from the Sohn Investment Conference in New York.
(To watch the full Chanos interview, click here 
.)
It is "overwhelmingly likely" that the financial industry will adopt uses for the technology underpinning bitcoin, former Treasury Secretary Larry Summers  said.
"I'm reasonably confident ... that the blockchain will change a great deal of financial practice and exchange," he said Tuesday from the Consensus 2016 event in midtown Manhattan, adding that his bet on the future of finance would see "40 years from now, blockchain and all that followed from it will figure more prominently in that story than will bitcoin."
Summers referred to blockchain technology's ability to reduce inefficient frictions during asset transfers, but he sounded a much-less confident note about the cryptocurrency for which it was originally invented.
Jim Chanos, the founder and managing partner of Kynikos Associates, said he was still betting big against China's stock market and remains short electric car-maker Tesla.
His remarks came from sidelines of the Sohn Conference in New York Wednesday.
The billionaire hedge-fund manager, known for his short-selling acumen, also discussed the U.S. election, the state of the hedge fund business and Valeant Pharmaceuticals. His Tesla short, along with a bet against another Elon Musk venture, Solar City, were first revealed last year.

One word is on the lips of Wall Street CEOs as they head into a potentially rocky earnings season for the first quarter of 2016: Liquidity.
Analysts are expecting a disappointing quarter and leaders of Wall Street firms are reiterating the same key phrase as they sail into the storm. The more liquidity an investor has — that is to say, the more unspent capital they are armed with to confront unforeseen challenges arising from existing investments — the better they are expected to withstand market pressures in an economic downturn.
Some are optimistic in liquidity forecasts; others are not.
BlackRock Chairman and CEO Larry Fink thinks negative interest rates will force investors to move into less-liquid investments. Fink said in the investment manager's annual shareholder letter that investors and oil-producing nations are being squeezed for liquidity, something that might have major repercussions.
"Particularly worrying is the adoption of negative interest rates by central banks attempting to spark economic growth," Fink wrote in the letter, published Sunday. "Their actions are severely punishing the world's savers and creating incentives to reach for yield, pushing investors into less-liquid asset classes and increased levels of risk, with potentially dangerous financial and economic consequences."
The rally in the yen continued this week as the Japanese currency hit a 17-month high against the dollar. Historically, super strength in the yen has signaled times of trouble for the market, and according to one technician it could be foreshadowing a major downturn in U.S. equities.
"This might be the center of the storm and actually be the sort of black swan event that takes the S&P to the downside," Carter Worth told CNBC's "Options Action" on Friday. A black swan event is a term used in the financial markets that describes an occurrence which comes as a surprise to investors and sparks a wave of selling.
Worth expects that the yen will continue to strengthen, which will put pressure on equities in the U.S. and Japan. And looking at a chart of the S&P 500 versus Japan's Nikkei 225, he noted that for much of the last year the two traded in a tight correlation — that is up until recently.
Read More Oil analyst: Why crude could double in 2016
"The optics are quite clear. Everything started rebounding nicely and then the Nikkei has faltered and started to roll over," he said. "This is a problem. I ultimately believe that the S&P 500 is going to go that way as well," the head of technical analysis at CornerStone Macro added. "This is a bad place to be in."
The S&P 500 is slightly higher in 2016 while the Nikkei has fallen more than 17 percent — and Worth expects that weakness to continue. "The presumption is that we are precariously close to hovering at well-defined lows at a common level and we are going to break those lows," he said. "You can call it a head and shoulders but either way that's not a good setup and more often than not it resolved lower not higher."
Jordan Spieth isn't the only one having a bad day today.
Shares of Under Armour were under pressure after Morgan Stanley reiterated its "sell" rating on the stock, and slashed its price target to $32 from $64.
The firm cited concerns over growth momentum and therefore a loss in market share as primary reasons for the call.
Morgan Stanley initially cut the stock to "underweight" on Jan 11. Shortly afterwards Under Armour rallied 17 percent on its strong fourth quarter that beat analyst estimates.
But while CNBC's "Halftime Report" experts disagree with the call, they're not jumping in at these levels.
Check out the companies making headlines after the bell Monday:
Technology company Juniper Networks saw shares sink after it slashed earnings expectations for the March quarter. The networking company expects revenue of $1.09 billion to $1.1 billion, the company said in a statement, missing the prior guidance of $1.15 billion to $1.19 billion, based on weaker demand from its enterprise division. Earnings were also chopped down to between 35 cents per share and 37 cents per share, below the prior range of 42 cents to 46 cents per share, the company said Monday.
It's Janet Yellen, not Q1 earnings, that could revive the slumping financials sector, according to two traders.
"If the Fed begins its tightening cycle for real, everyone is going to flock back into financials," Boris Schlossberg of BK Asset Management said on CNBC's "Trading Nation" on Friday. "And that's going to be a very good trade."
Despite the broader market's recent rally, the financials haven't followed suit. The banks are down more than 7 percent this year, making it the S&P 500's worst performing sector. Schlossberg says the Fed is to blame.
Fed chair "Janet Yellen threw a curveball at the market, and that's one of the reasons the financials got really badly hurt," said Schlossberg. "The market was really positioned for an interest rate cycle hike, and so far that hasn't happened."
Higher rates tend to be good for the financials, as it increases the returns they make on all the cash they hold.
"We do need the Fed to change its posture," said Schlossberg. "The moment it does, the financials are probably going to be one of the best trades out there."
Gina Sanchez of Chantico Global isn't holding her breath for a bank rally.
"The outlook for the medium term, until we start to see a Fed hike coming, is going to be pretty gloomy for the banks," Sanchez said on Friday's "Trading Nation."
She does see one glimmer of hope for the sector.
"We have seen operating margins going up in banks, where we have seen operating margins falling for the rest of the S&P 500," she said. "So that is actually one bright spot for financials — meaning that at some point, when they can start to really generate actual sales and earnings, that should be a good thing."
After financials drastically lagged this year, Citi Research finally believes the sector is compelling enough to buy. So what are the best opportunities in the category?
With the Financial Select Sector SPDR Fund down nearly 7 percent year to date versus the S&P 500 at roughly flat on the year, Citi Research upgraded diversified financials to an "overweight" rating.
"Underperformance thus far this year provides a fortuitous time to step up," Citi Research's chief U.S. equity strategist, Tobias Levkovich, wrote in a note to clients Friday. "The opportunity in earnings estimate revisions (in financials) have collapsed to levels that are unsustainably low and should rebound."
The strategist states when "estimate revision momentum" starts to improve, stock prices historically follow suit. Moreover Levkovich likes how the sector sentiment among investors and sell-side analysts is negative, which could provide more upside when it turns.
Here are the financial stocks on Citi Research's recommended list.
Jeffrey Saut, chief investment strategist at Raymond James & Associates, joined CNBC Pro for an exclusive strategy session on the way he develops his investment outlook and his views on what could be ahead for stocks.
With an investment career that spans more than four decades, the strategist believes the current secular bull market is comparable to those seen in the past and will likely follow a similar trend.
"Barring some black swan event, I do think we have another seven or eight years left," Saut said, brushing off concerns from bears who think the seven-year bull run may be running out of steam.
During his conversation with CNBC's Mike Santoli, Saut laid out all the factors that could take the market even higher, according to his views, as well as how investors should be positioned for the years ahead.
The IPO thaw is finally here. Maybe. It's been two months since the market bottomed, but it's been nearly four months since any significant companies went public.
This morning SecureWorks, Dell's security spinoff, said its long-awaited IPO was expected to price 9 million shares between $15.50 and $17.50, valuing the company at up to $1.42 billion.
Exchange operator BATS Global Markets (BATS) is scheduled to price its long-awaited IPO next Thursday night for trading Friday, and there's a lot at stake.
First, BATS will be listing and trading on its own exchange, after an historic 2012 technology glitch that forced them to abandon their IPO. Second, the entire IPO community will be watching the deal as an indication of the health of the IPO market.
BATS has to execute the IPO and price it so investors make money. If the deal does well and the markets hold up, two other IPOs are waiting the following week: casino REIT MGM Growth Properties (MGP), and American Renal (ARA), which runs dialysis facilities.
Hertz shares fell more than 5 percent Monday after the company lowered its full-year revenue guidance, and CNBC's Jim Cramer said the news shows that rental car companies need to wake up.
"This is a challenged group not unlike the auto companies, which are all dealing with Uber. I think that their failure to acknowledge Uber shows me that their head is in the sand. There's obviously something wrong," Cramer said on "Squawk on the Street."
The CNBC Rapid Update shows a sharp decline in the outlook for first quarter GDP from a high of 2.3 percent to just 0.6 percent. Weakness has come from several sectors, led by trade but also including retail sales, inventories and manufacturing.
Economists are puzzling over whether this is another case when seasonality in the data is depressing first quarter growth, as it apparently has the past two years, or if this is a real softening of the economy. Bulls point to strong job growth as a better indicator of the economy' strength and look for a second quarter rebound.
Data this week — especially retail sales on Wednesday — should help answer the question.
When bad news is thoroughly expected, its release can come as relief rather than a jolt. Optimists will say this is why the ugly corporate-earnings news expected to arrive starting this week will be fine for stocks.
This is certainly true in pockets of the market, and a run toward the old highs for the Standard & Poor's 500 Index would not be surprising as a reflex response. Yet it's tough to prove that the broad market is fully set up to celebrate a third-straight quarterly decline in profits.
Stocks around the world are now battling against a major level of resistance, according to technical analyst and investment advisor Dana Lyons.
To make his case, Lyons turns to the Global Dow index, which tracks 150 large companies from around the world.
"We have a major confluence of resistance right here that's going to pose a pretty good hurdle for global equities to get over," Lyons said Friday on CNBC's "Trading Nation."
The first line of resistance is a former line of support. That would be the market's long, post-2009 uptrend, which connects many of its recent lows.

This line is just where the Global Dow peaked out recently, Lyons shows.

Lyons then turns to the line connecting the market's recent tops, which he considers to be its downtrend line. This comes in just above current levels.
Finally, Lyons' attention shifts to the 50 percent retracement level. This is the level at which the Global Dow would retake half of its losses from May 2015 to February of this year.
On top of these three markers, moving averages are also converging just above current prices.
Not much money directly tracks the Global Dow. But there is still good reason for traders to watch it closely, Lyons maintains.
"It's become very instructive as a 'tell' to the direction of global equities in general, and potential inflection points," Lyons said.
Last week, the S&P 500 posted its worst loss since Feb. 5, falling more than 1 percent. Which stocks could lead a rebound in the benchmark?
Using Kensho, a quantitative analytics tool, we ran a screen to find the stocks with the best statistical setup for success — or failure — from here. We did this by finding "oversold" stocks due for a pop because they are trading unusually lower than their 50-day moving average. Conversely, we found "overbought" stocks ready for a drop because they are trading far above normal levels relative to their 50-day moving average.
First, here are the oversold stocks. The table below shows the S&P 500 stocks with the best chances to move higher over the next few days based on their history of trading at similarly oversold levels. The first column is the number of standard deviations the stock is below its 50-day moving average. The second column is the stock's track record over the next few days after falling into this oversold range in the past.
Check out which companies are making headlines before the bell:
Norfolk Southern — Canadian Pacific Railway has ended its effort to strike a merger deal with Norfolk Southern, saying it sees no clear path to a transaction in light of Norfolk Southern's resistance.
Yahoo — London's Daily Mail is the latest party interested in participating in a bid for Yahoo's assets, although the paper said talks with several potential bidders are at an early stage and there's no guarantee a deal will be done.
Hatteras Financial — The mortgage real estate investment trust will be bought by rival Annaly Capital Management for $1.5 billion in cash and stock, or $15.85 per share. That compares to the Friday close for Hatteras of $14.26 per share.
Alphabet — Pivotal Research Group upgraded the stock to "buy" from "hold" on optimism about upcoming earnings and diminishing negative impact from foreign exchange.
Overstock.com — Founder and CEO Patrick Byrne is taking a medical leave of absence as he undergoes treatment for hepatitis C. Byrne said he does not know if he will return, and has recommended that the board appoint general counsel Mitch Edwards as acting CEO.
Bloomin' Brands — Credit Suisse upgraded the Outback Steakhouse parent's shares to "outperform" from "neutral," saying despite weakening sales and a lower market share, the challenges facing the company are understood and already priced into the stock.
Restaurant Brands International — RBC upgraded the parent of the Burger King and Tim Hortons chains to "outperform" from "sector perform," noting sales momentum at Burger King and fewer headwinds from foreign currency.
United Continental — The airline is forecasting a decline of up to 7.75 percent in its revenue per available passenger seat mile, hurt by a strong dollar and a decline in travel by customers whose businesses are impacted by lower oil prices.
General Motors — A fourth case involving defective ignition switches was dismissed. According to a GM spokesman, there was no settlement in the case involving the switches. This trial had been scheduled to start in July.
SAP — SAP said first quarter results for the business software maker would be weaker than expected, on a slower pace of sales of software licenses to corporate customers.
General Electric — GE is planning an initial public offering for its Czech banking business, according to the Financial Times. The FT said GE would retain a significant minority stake in the unit.
Seagate Technology — Seagate got a positive mention in Barron's, which said the hard disk drive maker's 7.6 percent yield is enticing and that it would benefit from increased demand for large drives used in data centers.
McDonald's — The restaurant chain has put its Korean unit up for sale and hired Morgan Stanley to seek out potential buyers, according to a Korean newspaper.
Toll Brothers — Toll could climb to $40 per share or more from Friday's close near $29, according to Barron's, which points to the home builder's successful expansion into the New York City luxury condominium market.
It is only April, but some on Wall Street are already predicting a rotten 2016 for U.S. banks.
Analysts say it has been the worst start to the year since the financial crisis in 2007-2008 and expect poor first-quarter results when reporting begins this week.
Concerns about economic growth in China, the impact of persistently low oil prices on the energy sector, and near-zero interest rates are weighing on capital markets activity as well as loan growth.
The price of U.S. crude, which bottomed on Feb. 11, should hit $85 per barrel by the end of 2016, oil analyst Mike Rothman said Monday, a projection that's nearly double what some on Wall Street have been forecasting.
"You have two things going on here this year: One is demand growth and the other is contraction of non-OPEC supply, the first time in about eight years," the founder and president of energy research firm Cornerstone Analytics told CNBC's "Squawk Box."
Rothman's thesis is based on a law of economics which holds that increased demand at a time of shrinking supply could boost prices.
Prior to starting Cornerstone, Rothman was senior managing director and head of ISI's integrated oil research. He also had served as chief energy strategist at Merrill Lynch.
West Texas Intermediate crude surged nearly 8 percent last week, while stocks suffered their worst week since February.
Next week is one of Jim Cramer's favorite weeks of the year for earnings. Investors can finally get past chatter of the Federal Reserve and politics and focus on the fundamentals of earnings.
Unfortunately, Cramer isn't a big fan of many of the stocks that report.
"My advice? Listen, learn, find out. Sometimes there is not that much money to be made. Next week is one of those times," the "Mad Money" host said.
With this in mind, Cramer shared the stocks and events on his radar for next week:
Thursday: Bank of America, Delta, GameStop analyst meetingDelta: Cramer thinks the airline stocks are dirt cheap. Investors will find out just how cheap they are when Delta reports. Usually, if a stock sells at just six times next year's earnings, it means that the company cannot make the earnings.
"In this case, I think Delta is doing so well and the stock is so low that opportunity may be knocking, especially if you believe, as I do, that oil I staying lower longer. If there were a stock to buy before it reports next week I think it would be Delta," Cramer said.
Read MoreCramer's game plan: Only stock I like next week
In more than 30 years of investing, Jim Cramer has created a vast rule book surrounding the market. His goal is for investors is to learn these rules and apply them without even thinking about it, starting with discussing the importance of strategic cash placement in a portfolio.
Much to his surprise, Cramer has found that a lot of people aren't prepared when a correction occurs in the market. They are charmed into the market when things are good and then unprepared when things get bad. They assume that a correction means that something is wrong and that stocks shouldn't be touched.
"That is a very big mistake. Corrections happen all of the time after big runs, and they are to be anticipated, but you can't write off the market when they happen," the "Mad Money" host added.
Another mistake that Cramer sees commonly is that many believe they are supposed to be fully invested at all times. He has even met money managers who think they are supposed to have all money invested.
This is complete nonsense!
Value investor Mario Gabelli said Friday he would support a buyout of Yahoo's core internet media and search business by Verizon.
Shares of Yahoo whipsawed Thursday on news that Verizon would move forward with a bid for the tech giant. The stock traded down marginally on Friday.
Gabelli, who owns shares of Verizon and Yahoo, said the marriage makes sense following Verizon's $4.4 billion purchase of AOL last year. Verizon could likely do a deal to sell off Yahoo Japan, he said.
"This is pretty simple. It's basically Investment Banking 101," he told CNBC's "Fast Money: Halftime Report."
Yahoo has pushed back the deadline for bids for the business until April 18, Re/code reported. AT&T, Time Inc, and Google-parent Alphabet, as well as private equity firms TPG and Bain, are also reportedly interested in Yahoo's assets.
Well, this is a bit of a disappointment. We have oil flying (up nearly 7 percent!), we have a weak dollar, we have China quiet all week, and we have a dovish Fed that traders believe have put some kind of floor under the market.
And this is all we get? The Dow Industrials up 40 points in a lackluster, average-volume session? In the past months, if oil would be up 7 percent and the dollar would be weak, we would have been up 200-250 points. What's wrong?
You can argue oil may be decoupling from the markets. Maybe. But the usual suspects that would benefit from a weak dollar are all up: energy, materials, industrials. In fact, there's more than four stocks advancing for every one declining.
So, why the crummy point action?
Market volatility has fallen to notably low levels, but earning season could soon change all that. Over the past 10 years, the emergence of first-quarter earnings reports has generally corresponded with a rise in volatility.
In the four weeks preceding Q1 earnings season, the CBOE Volatility Index has tended to fall 4.7 percent.
Meanwhile, during earnings season — here defined as the period between JPMorgan's report and the date four weeks hence — the VIX has risen an average of 4.9 percent.
Median readings show a similar divergence; the VIX's median performance in the pre-earnings period is a 4.4 percent drop, while its subsequent median move is a 1.3 percent rise.
The GLD, the ETF that tracks gold, has been on a tear — up 17 percent this year. And according to one savvy trader, the precious metal's run is far from over.
On Thursday, when bullish trades outpaced bearish ones, a trader bet more than $2 million that the gold could rally 10 percent in one month.
Closely watched strategist Jim Paulsen sees two scenarios playing out in markets this year — and both involve Fed rate hikes.
In the first, concerns about global growth persist, but the Fed is forced to raise rates this year because of inflation in wages and core prices.
"Yesterday's unemployment claims number, another strong job report, if that continues, those wage numbers are going to go up," the chief investment strategist at Wells Capital Management told CNBC's "Squawk Box" on Friday.
My colleague Steve Liesman has published a report on the government's quarterly GDP report.  Summed up, he found a large, persistent error in GDP between initial and final GDP reports.  Not only is it off significantly, the government even gets the direction of growth wrong 30 percent of the time!
Why is economic forecasting still so bad?  Many feel that the tools being used to make the forecasts are simply inadequate.  There are people trying to bring economics into the 21st  century. They're using big data to make "the dismal science" less dismal.
One of them is Giselle Guzman, CEO of Now-Cast Data Corp, which is applying machine learning, big data and crowd sourcing to economic forecasting. They are trying to fuse economics and computer science.
"From my perspective, both the government and most human economists have the same problem—they are using old methods from the 1950's!, Guzman told me.
Giselle has a PhD in Finance and Economics and worked for 17 years with Nobel Prize winner Lawrence Klein, a pioneer of modern economic forecasting. She was also a research assistant to Nobel Prize-winner Joseph Stiglitz.
I wrote about her—and her track record—in Trader Talk in October.
On her website, subscribers can pull up a dashboard of roughly 4,000 indicators on virtually every kind of economic activity, which provides tables of all the predictions and a graph of the predictions placed over the actual numbers.
The coolest part is you can watch predictions for several indicators, including predictions for Consumer Price Index, Producer Price Index, and Consumer Spending—update in real time, part of a program called LiveWire.  And I mean real time—by the second.
Think about that. The Fed updates its estimates once a quarter, and most federal economic data comes out once a month.
What's the "secret sauce?"  Guzman tells me there are several components:
1) A "wisdom of crowds" approach. The Internet is the perfect vehicle for exploring what people are really worried about and how they really feel, rather than what they say they are worried about or feel.
2) Sophisticated algorithms that quantify those behaviors, but also calculate the economic impact of geopolitical events, natural disasters, and even acts of terrorism.
3) The constant improvement of forecasts using machine learning.  It's like a self-learning system.  The inputs are constantly changing. Traditional economists have a "model" that is static. This is dynamic. The formulas are changing depending on what happens. Think of data as evolving, as a living organism. As the data evolves, the relationships between data change.
Guzman claims her predictions are far more accurate than traditional economic forecasting methods.
For example, the consensus estimate for the January Consumer Price Index (CPI) was negative 0.1 percent for a month over month change. Now-Cast was at 0.0 percent. It came in a 0.0 percent.
The February CPI consensus was -0.3 percent month-over-month, Now-Cast was minus 0.14 percent.  The reported number negative 0.16 percent.
When I wrote about Now-Cast in October, I concluded by saying that what I would like to see is analysis of her forecasts against the predictions of the top strategists on Wall Street.
That hasn't happened yet, but a post on their website claims to have nailed over 40 economic indicators for February.
"Now we have enough data to treat economics like a real science, not a pseudo-science," Guzman says.
Programming note: Guzman will speak on Closing Bell at 3:10pm ET Thursday.
Falling gas prices helped restaurants and grocers last year, and consumers used their savings to spend more on cars, health care, online and travel, according to JPMorgan Chase's latest Share of Wallet analysis.
The report found the biggest losers were gas stations, electronics and department stores, which all saw their share of consumer spending shrink.
Vicki Contavespi splurged on a vacation last year, going snorkeling in the Caribbean and paying for it with savings from the gas pump. The Sterling, Virginia, resident estimates she saved an average of $200 a month last year due to cheaper gasoline.
"Filling the tank is virtually half the price it used to be," said Contavespi, a media consultant whose daily work commute last year was around 30 miles each way. She's now driving less due to a job change but is still relieved gas remains under $2 a gallon.
Hawkish comments from Federal Reserve officials this week have some investors looking to sell stocks. But according to one long-time Fed critic, the Fed will never hike rates.
"If the Fed tries to raise interest rates we will have a worse financial crisis than the one they caused in 2008," Peter Schiff told CNBC's "Fast Money" traders on Wednesday. "They're going to talk as if they can raise rates because they don't want to admit that this is a bubble. But they don't want to let the air out."
The CEO of Euro Pacific Capital argues that the Fed's quantitative easing policies, which brought interest rates down to zero, have turned the U.S. economy into clients at a sort of "roach motel," dependent on low rates to survive, while simultaneously unable to grow because of those same low rates. And now, according to Schiff, the only way Janet Yellen will be able to save the market from another collapse is by cutting rates once again.
"Once they check us in, they can never check us out. And that's what they're finding out right now," he said.
Following December's 25 bps hike, stocks have violently fluctuated in a range between 2081 and 1810 on the S&P 500 — only finding footing in recent weeks.
Schiff says the U.S. economy is currently in the midst of a recession that could eventually be even more devastating than the Great Recession of 2008. By his work, the official start of said recession was either at the end of 2015 or early 2016, the same time the Fed decided to raise rates.
"Whoever replaces Barack Obama is going to inherit a worse recession than the one that he inherited from Bush," said Schiff. "We're off to the worst stock market start in history, so I doubt the Fed wants to repeat that and [hike] again in April."
But there is one place Schiff is confident any move from the Fed will withstand: Gold.
"What happened the last time the Fed raised rates? Gold went way up. So if the Fed does that again and the stock market tanks, gold's going to get the safe haven bid," said Schiff. "If you bet against the Fed and bought gold in 2000 when it was under $300 an ounce, the Fed is one of the main reasons it's now more than $1,200 an ounce."
Of course, Schiff has made similar claims in the past, many of which have yet to come to come to fruition.
But Schiff stands by his theory that gold will eventually trade up to $5,000.
"If you bet against the Fed and bought gold in 2000 when it was under $300 an ounce, the Fed is one of the main reasons it's now more than $1,200 an ounce [today]."
Is it possible to pay too much for top quality? Can the ability to sleep at night be overvalued?
Investors should be asking these questions as they try to navigate a market that continues to reward the anointed "quality" stocks — those stable blue chip names that now look almost as expensive as they are popular and boring.
Sure, the ripping 12 percent rally from the panicky Feb. 11 market depths was initially animated by a surge in the riskiest, most-hated stocks, inflicting maximum suffering on overeager short sellers and believers in the global recession scenario.
Yet the strength in dicier, more jumpy stocks did not really come at the expense of those "defensive" large-cap stalwarts in the consumer staples, telecom and utilities sectors, which are still handily beating the broad market year to date.
Participation in the equities seven years after the start of the bull market remains grudging and shadowed by macroeconomic worry, and so investors have a strong preference for perceived safety and decent dividend yields — stocks that act somewhat like corporate bonds, in other words.
Spring came early to the markets, and if history is any guide, the rally could continue into April.
After a dismal start to the year, the S&P 500 has rebounded nearly 5 percent this month.
We used Kensho, a tool designed to quantify historical market events, to look for clues about the market's performance in April over the last decade.
A few patterns emerge: Apple and blue chip stocks reliably outperform while small caps and the U.S. dollar tend to lag.
U.S. equity benchmarks have only just reached a "mid-term bull market" but are likely to nonetheless hit a "dangerous period" of choppy trade over the next two months, one strategist has told CNBC.
"On the (Dow Jones industrial average) and the S&P my view is that we're actually hitting a wall," Sandy Jadeja, chief market strategist at SignalPro, told CNBC Thursday.
Looking at short-term cycles based on "time analysis rather than price analysis," the strategist believes there is still life in the current bull market despite it entering its seventh year after the global financial crash of 2008.
With stocks rebounding from their February lows — though poised for a weekly decline — it's hard to say whether equities are in a bear market or a bull market. That's the conclusion of Jurrien Timmer, director of global macro strategy at Fidelity Investments.
Timmer told CNBC's "Worldwide Exchange" on Thursday that markets are stuck in "purgatory," until central banks can get on the same page. "We're in between a bull market cycle and a bear market cycle."
"We're now sort of getting to the high end of the range but it's still a range," Timmer said, referring to a S&P 500 range between the 1,800 and 2,100 levels. "I don't see the catalyst for us to break out of that in the long term."
CNBC's Jim Cramer  said Thursday investors should buy Yahoo's stock if Starboard Value is able to replace Marissa Meyer with Rick Hill as interim CEO.
Starboard on Thursday nominated Hill and eight others to Yahoo's board.
"We believe that Yahoo is deeply undervalued and opportunities exist within the control of management and the Board of Directors (the 'Board') to unlock significant value for the benefit of all shareholders," Starboard said in a letter to Yahoo shareholders.
Hill was chairman and CEO of chipmaker Novellus Systems until 2012, when the company was acquired by Lam Research Group for about $3.3 billion.
"Rick Hill is one of the greatest moneymakers I have ever seen in my lifetime. He created tremendous value from Novellus," Cramer said on "Squawk on the Street."
If the S&P 500  were to eke out as much as a 5 percent gain this year, investors should feel grateful, Stifel's Hans Olsen said Thursday.
"If you're going to squeeze any incremental return out of this market, you've got to do it in a very tactical way, which is when we get these pullbacks of 10 percent or more," Olsen told CNBC's "Squawk Box."
The Dow Jones industrial average and S&P 500, as of Wednesday's close, were well clear of correction territory, defined by a decline of 10 percent from recent highs. The Nasdaq composite was a bit closer to a correction heading into Thursday's trading.
The awful new year start for stocks has recently been on the mend since the Feb. 11 bottom. But Wall Street was under pressure this week, with the Dow, S&P, and Nasdaq on track for their first weekly losses in the past six weeks.
"Before the end of the year what we could claim as a victory is a total return on the S&P 500 somewhere in the order of 4 or 5 percent," said Olsen, global head of investment strategy at Stifel Wealth and Investment Management.
"If we look at the [earnings] numbers ... top line has been falling for five-consecutive quarters. Bottom line, it looks like we're going to put in four-consecutive quarters of decline," said Olsen, who's rather pessimistic about the upcoming first quarter earning season.
"That's not a market where you get terribly excited about leaning into," he added.
The U.S. stock market is closed on Friday for Good Friday. Despite the market closure, Good Friday is not a federal government holiday, so the Commerce Department still plans to release its final revision of fourth quarter gross domestic product.
With the Federal Reserve more dovish than expected on March 16, many on Wall Street are predicting a weaker U.S. dollar from here. Which stocks can investors buy on the trend, using history as a guide?
JPMorgan told clients Thursday to favor U.S. multinationals on a falling greenback. CNBC Pro screens using Kensho, a hedge fund analytics tool, came to this conclusion as well.
"We believe last week's dovish Fed outcome opened up the path for" multinationals to make a comeback vs. the S&P 500, JPMorgan U.S. equity strategist Dubravko Lakos-Bujas wrote in a note to clients Wednesday. "Multinationals have stronger balance sheets with higher cash levels and lower leverage."
A JPMorgan index of U.S. multinationals has underperformed the S&P 500 by about 40 percent since the end of 2013.
Using Kensho, we looked at how firms in the Dow Jones industrial average performed when the dollar index declined by 4 percent or more in one month during the last decade.
Check out which companies are making headlines before the bell:
Accenture — The consulting firm earned $1.34 per share for its latest quarter, compared to estimates of $1.18. Revenue also beat estimates, and it raised its full-year forecast on strong growth for its consulting services.
Winnebago — The recreational vehicle maker earned 35 cents per share for its latest quarter, 2 cents a share above estimates, but revenue was shy of forecasts. The company did say it expects revenue to improve thanks to the success of new products and what it calls a "robust" backlog.
Finish Line — The athletic apparel retailer beat estimates by 3 cents with adjusted quarterly profit of 83 cents per share, and revenue beat Street forecasts, as well. The company said its results were helped by better supply chain management, among other factors.
Buffalo Wild Wings — Goldman Sachs added the restaurant chain's stock to its "conviction buy" list, saying risks related to sales and chicken wing prices are already priced in.
Wells Fargo — UBS is initiating coverage on the banking giant with a "sell" rating, noting that its valuation is on the high end and that there are risks to Wells Fargo's revenue growth and credit performance.
PVH Corp. — PVH reported an adjusted $1.52 per share profit for its latest quarter. That beat Street estimates by 6 cents a share, while the apparel maker's revenue was also slightly above analysts' projections. However, a strong dollar, cautious consumer spending, and more promotional activity is leading to a less than expected full-year forecast.
KB Home — KB Home reported quarterly profit of 14 cents per share, 3 cents a share above estimates, while the home builder's revenue was well above Street forecasts. KB Home also issued an upbeat full-year forecast, thanks to what it calls a "healthy" order backlog.
Staples, Office Depot — A judge criticized the Federal Trade Commission's (FTC) tactics in its effort to prevent the takeover deal between the two office supplies retailers. The judge said the FTC pressured an Amazon.com executive for testimony that would favor its side of the case, but the FTC denies that anything improper was done.
Yahoo — The Wall Street Journal reports activist investor Starboard Value is now seeking to remove the entire Yahoo board, and that it will announce this morning its intention to nominate nine directors.
Raytheon — Raytheon raised its annual dividend by 9.3 percent, with the defense contractor upping the yearly payout to $2.93 per share from the prior $2.68 a share.
H.B. Fuller — Fuller beat estimates by 4 cents a share with adjusted quarterly profit of 43 cents per share, thought revenue was slightly shy of estimates. The specialty chemicals maker was helped by strong results in its engineering adhesives unit.
Barrick Gold — The company will have to face class action lawsuit in the U.S. involving claims that it misstated facts about a discontinued project on the Argentina/Chile border. A federal judge granted class action status Wednesday, covering shareholders who purchased the gold miner's shares between May 7, 2009 and November 1, 2013.
Exxon Mobil — Exxon Mobil must include a climate change resolution on its annual shareholder proxy, following a ruling from the Securities and Exchange Commission. The oil giant had argued against the proposal, saying it already provided sufficient disclosure on carbon emissions.
Apple — The company's Apple Pay mobile payment service will be integrated with its Safari web browser later this year, according to Re/code. That would allow its use on mobile websites, utilizing the fingerprint security technology on iPhones and iPads.
Stocks have made a major comeback over the last month, but some traders say that one of the leading groups in the recent rally is set to run out of steam.
The S&P 500 energy sector has been leading the market gains, rising 8 percent in March as the broader S&P has risen 5 percent. Unfortunately, as energy stocks have gone up in price, they've skyrocketed in valuation, according to Erin Gibbs of S&P Investment Advisory.
Gibbs said the S&P energy sector looks extremely expensive given an expected 60 percent earnings contraction for 2016, trading at a price-to-earnings ratio of 70 times expected forward earnings. This is in steep contrast to the S&P 500, which is trading at about 17 times forward earnings.

While a pop in oil prices may drive the sector higher, Gibbs said dismal profits and high amounts of debt will continue to weigh on energy companies longer term.
"I have some real concerns about these companies' being able to trade at these valuations, even if gas and oil recover," she said Wednesday on CNBC's "Power Lunch."
Read MoreWhen markets get scary, panicking is smart: Yale profs
Looking at the SPDR energy sector ETF (XLE), Todd Gordon of TradingAnalysis.com agreed that the levels at which energy stocks are trading appear unsustainable.
Among the technical warning signs, Gordon noted that energy stocks have reached a 62 percent retracement level at which stocks should see technical resistance. Another potential concern is the ETF's inability to cross above its 200-day moving average.

And with energy the best performing sector of the S&P 500 over the past month, Gordon said potential weakness in energy names may translate into trouble for the broader market as well.
"It looks like the leader in this market has failed," he said Wednesday in a "Trading Nation" segment. "We could see some downside to come."
Stocks haven't done much in a while. Wednesday marked the eight-straight day that the S&P 500 had closed less than 1 percent above or below its prior closing price.
Ominously, the last time the market staged this long a period of quiescence was in early August — shortly before stocks took a gut-wrenching tumble.
Now, as then, "we are at a precarious position," Erin Gibbs of S&P Investment Advisory said Wednesday on CNBC's "Trading Nation."
"We're trading at fairly high valuation and earnings growth doesn't look that good, so any big shocks — disappointment from China, any movement from the Fed — could send us into those highly volatile markets once again," Gibbs said.
As the market has slipped into a period of calm, the amount of volatility expected over the next 30 days — as measured by the CBOE Volatility Index, or the VIX — has fallen dramatically.
Editor's note: David Ader is head of rates strategy at CRT Capital Group. This is research that went out to his clients Thursday and is reprinted by CNBC Pro with his permission.
Below is a chart that we put together in response to a question of what would the market do in the event of a Trump victory in the general election. There are, needless to say, many moving parts to the story of what the markets would do, but we'll take a stab.
It's classic investment advice: When markets get volatile, the worst thing you can do is panic; instead, take a deep breath and stay fully invested.
But according to two Yale researchers, that advice could be completely wrong.
"In volatile markets, there's a lot of additional risk that investors are exposed to, and if they're not being adequately compensated for that risk, then the right thing to do, actually, is to exit," Tyler Muir of the Yale School of Management said Monday on CNBC's "Trading Nation."
"That's what we find in the data," he added.
Muir and Yale assistant professor of finance Alan Moreira recently published a paper to this effect, entitled "Volatility Managed Portfolios." What they found is that contrary to the popular wisdom that the potential for higher returns makes up for higher risk in volatile markets, those who avoid investing in volatile times actually enjoy superior risk-adjusted returns.
The advice that when everything is crazy, just sit tight is based on the assumption that everything is properly priced in — but it turns out that the inverse relationship between return and risk is not static, Muir and Moreira told CNBC in a three-way phone interview.
"Our point is that if returns are not predictable by volatility," then one should vary one's investment according to volatility since this will allow the investor to "reduce your risk without forgoing returns," Moreira said.
To illustrate their point, Moreira and Muir present the following chart. The researchers compare the value of a dollar passively invested in the market to the value of a dollar invested according to their volatility-timing strategy, which diminishes market exposure in volatile times and increases it in calm times. On the whole, that makes one's average market exposure 100 percent, just like in the buy-and-hold strategy.

The "Fast Money" traders delivered their final trades of the day.
Tim Seymour was a seller of FedEx.
David Seaburg was a buyer of Gilead.
Karen Finerman was a buyer of Foot Locker.
Brian Kelly was a seller of the Financial Select Sector SPDR ETF.
With March Madness in full swing, the initial field of 68 teams is due to be whittled down to just the elite eight teams. So, with bracketology in mind, Jim Cramer decided to review his selection of the first four of eight CEOs that have put their companies in the best position to win right now.
The first of the "Mad Money" elite eight is the CEO of Honeywell, Dave Cote. He took over the industrial and aerospace conglomerate in July 2002. Since that time, the stock has more than doubled in performance.
While Cramer found the outperformance of the stock certainly impressive, what he liked the best was Cote's ability to reposition the company with savvy break-ups, acquisitions and redirection to more lucrative end markets. This has allowed the company to stay relevant in a rapidly changing environment that has gotten the best of some of their competitors.
"Honestly, I think Dave Cote is the example that all industrial CEOs should aspire towards," the "Mad Money" host said.
While Starbucks Corp. recently announced FoodShare, a charity program that prevents foodwaste through the donation of unsold food as part of its efforts to tackle food waste and feed the hungry, its valuation remains "too high," according to a research analyst at Stephens.
Starbucks has posted "impressive results" with an 8 percent sales growth, but "at 32 times earnings that's about 35 percent above its five-year historical valuation average," Will Slabaugh told CNBC's "Power Lunch."
"A lot of the good news is baked into the stock here," he added.
Still, investors such as Peter Andersen, CIO at Congress Wealth Management, remain bullish, as they expect the coffee company to grow internationally, double store count in China in the next three years, and consider the stock holds no headline risk. Yes, the value could be considered "tippy," but "the prospects for the company are very, very exciting," the executive contended.
Chip stocks have been climbing, but one trader says this large-cap name is about to sink.
"I think Intel is overbought and due for a sell-off," Andrew Keene told CNBC's "Trading Nation" on Monday. The stock has surged 10 percent in the last month, making it one of the best performing Dow stocks during that time. "We've had this nice run off the low, but we are finding sellers here at $32."
For Keene, that is reminiscent of the activity seen around the $32 mark in January, before the stock took a leg lower. "I think that is going to serve as resistance," the founder of AlphaShark Trading said. "I think Intel is heading lower."
Read More The bottom is in for stocks: Technician
Furthermore, Keene said that on the longer-term chart, Intel is hitting resistance at its 100-week moving average.
To play for the decline, Keene is buying the April 32/31 put spread for 25 cents each. This is a bearish strategy where a trader will buy a put and then sell a lower strike put of the same expiration to offset the cost. The goal is for the stock to fall to the strike you are short or in this case $31 by April expiration. That's more than 4 percent lower than where the stock is currently trading.
"If Intel can end up at $31 or lower, I can end up with 300 percent returns within three weeks," he said.
Wall Street analysts tend to disagree with Keene's thesis that Intel shares could fall — of the 44 that cover the stock, the average price target is $36.07 with an overweight rating.
Top Wall Street executives have a big challenge in this year's regulatory exams, which banks are expected to complete in coming days.
For the first time, they have to factor in the possibility that the Fed reverses course and embraces negative interest rates — which will pile new stress onto banks in the regulators' list of Systemically Important Financial Institutions, or SIFIs. But the hypothetical scenarios, if they ever merge with reality, won't just create headaches on Wall Street. Banks may have no choice but to pass some of the effects of negative interest rates on to their customers, from large corporate accounts to consumers on Main Street.
Michael Alix, financial services advisory risk leader at PricewaterhouseCoopers and former New York Fed senior vice president, said one option for banks in a NIRP environment includes passing losses of negative interest to some customers, but not to others. This means corporate accounts would potentially be subject to negative interest rates, which would cost depositors, but not individual customers, whose balances are far smaller.
"The bank may very well treat consumers differently," Alix said. "Different banks may have different strategies dealing with those clients."
The rationale is simple, said Deloitte & Touche financial services advisory leader Alok Sinha. While some consumers are expected to bleed accounts dry and stash cash under a mattress, rather than pay a nominal fee in world devoid of savings interest, corporate clients cannot do this with their cash. However, if it's a move the industry makes in lockstep — similar to how quickly Wall Street banks moved to increase the prime rate after the Federal Reserve's December 2015 rate hike — it would likely be easier for even their biggest customers to digest.
But Main Street consumers wouldn't be exempt from the impacts of interest rates hypothetically going negative.
In the old days, when Jim Cramer was on Wall Street, it would take weeks for investors to unwind decisions they made and change their minds. These days, buyers and sellers are making decisions at lightning speed.
When the tragedy in Brussels occurred Tuesday, stocks collapsed immediately. Then, slowly, segments of the market that had nothing to do with the terror attacks began to rejuvenate, led by health care. Then tech came back,  followed by domestic utilities and international growth stocks.
By the end of Tuesday's session, Nasdaq finished in the green and only the travel and leisure stocks remained down.
"That is remarkable. In the old days, I could see those sell decisions undone maybe a week later as the coast had cleared. Now, it just takes hours," the "Mad Money" host said.
As the policy debate heats up at the Fed, investors are getting more acclimated to the idea that a rate hike is coming soon.
The central bank passed on raising its interest rate target at the March meeting, and in doing so indicated that earlier indications of four hikes this year were too aggressive. That forecast came from the December meeting, during which the Fed hiked its rate a quarter point, the first increase in more than nine years.
However, the March decision didn't seem to sit well with some members of the Federal Open Market Committee, the bank's monetary policymaking arm, even though only Kansas City Fed President Esther George dissented. In recent days, at least four member have made statements indicating they're tired of waiting and believe the Fed should get back on the path to normalization.
Read MoreHow stocks reacted amid confusing Fed message
Futures markets have been reacting to the hawkish chatter.
The market now assigns a 54 percent chance to a July hike, a 7 percentage point increase from Tuesday and 21 percentage points higher than a month ago, according to the CME's FedWatch tracker.
The terror attacks Tuesday in Brussels threw travel to Europe for a loop, redirecting flights and shuttering one of the busiest airports in the continent. The airport was to remain closed Wednesday, canceling or redirecting hundreds of flights.
In the days after a terrorist attack, jittery passengers cancel their trips and try for refunds on their flights and hotel stays. But it turns out the long-term effects on tourism take a lot less time for a destination to overcome than other crisis situations.
The travel and tourism industry bounces back a lot faster after terror attacks than other crisis events. That doesn't mean there are no negative effects, but countries tend to recover more quickly than following disease outbreaks, environmental disasters and political turmoil.
Check out the companies making headlines after the bell Wednesday:
Enterprise retailers Staples and Office Depot edged higher in late trading after reports that the Federal Trade Commission may have used improper tactics in its investigation of their merger. A judge said the FTC may have pressured Internet retailer Amazon's testimony, according to the Wall Street Journal.
GIC expects below-average returns from U.S. stocks over the next five to 10 years, but the Singapore sovereign wealth fund still sees the U.S. as an important source of investment opportunities.
"The greatest strength of the U.S. is the private sector. If that continues to be the case, we are not concerned," said Lim Chow Kiat, GIC Private Ltd's chief investment officer.
"We find a lot of investment opportunities in the U.S.," he said. "A lot of exciting things are coming out of the private sector on a daily basis."
Before bottoming on Feb. 11, it looked like stocks could be heading into a bear market. The subsequent rebound, though, suggests the bull is back on.
In fact, the truth may be neither. The current trend looks more like a "bunny market," according to Jim Paulsen, the widely followed chief market strategist at Wells Capital Management.
What's a bunny market? It's certainly not like the Easter Bunny, who goes around handing out treats, but instead more like a rabbit bopping up and down in place.
Read MoreWhat happened to the world coming to an end?
"Unlike an enthusiastic bull or a scary bear, a bunny market hops about a bit but really doesn't go anywhere, and bunnies have often dominated the stock market during the latter stages of past economic recoveries," Paulsen said in a report this week for clients.
Indeed, the market has hopped quite a bit over the past 15 months or so, but the S&P 500 benchmark is pretty much unchanged from where it sat in early November 2014, shortly after the Fed ended the third round of quantitative easing.
There's something strange going on in the world of packaged foods: Even as the population has grown and the economy has improved, U.S. sellers of packaged foods and beverages have seen stagnant sales volume.
"We can be fairly certain they're still eating, if we take a look around," quipped Jonathan Feeney of Athlos Research. But he added that Americans may now be inclined to eat somewhat different types of items, and in different ways.
For starters, it would appear that "people are going to dollar stores, and other places that aren't as easily measured or served by traditional distribution" methods," Feeney said Tuesday on CNBC's "Trading Nation."
On top of that, when they do go to the supermarket, they appear to be spending less time in the packaged-food-packed aisles.
When people buy groceries, they're displaying a greater predilection to buy "compete meals at the perimeter of the store, fresh foods at the perimeter of the story."
Feeney reports in a recent note to clients that the supermarket prepared food business has grown by $15 billion since 2008, taking almost 3 percentage points of market share in the "food at home" category from packaged foods with long shelf lives.
While some argue that a greater interest in eating healthy has motivated the shift, the analyst says consumers are attempting to find "cheaper eats in a deflationary world."
And how have companies responded to these trends? By and large, sellers of packaged food and beverages have found ways to cut costs and increase margins in order to squeeze out more profits from the same amount of sales, Feeney said.
"Not coincidentally, volumes seem to be stagnant or worse, and worsening YTD," he added in a note.
Read MoreFood brands move to stave off decline, outmaneuver start-ups
The advice he consequently provides to investors is simple: Ignore the magic of margin boosts, and look for companies that are actually managing to increase sales.
"Buy the growth companies, and leave aside the ones that aren't growing on the top line," Feeney said. "This focus to cost savings and deals and consolidation in the space won't last forever, but growth will."
Specifically, the analyst prefers shares of "snacking companies" like PepsiCo and Snyder's-Lance, given that snacks have proved more resilient than other types of packaged food products.
The Federal Reserve is willing to allow inflation to exceed its target in exchange for lower unemployment, Guggenheim Partners Chief Investment Officer Scott Minerd said Wednesday.
Minerd asserted the Fed's 2-percent inflation target is an average, not a ceiling. "We could have an overshoot to 3 percent or so, and I think they would welcome it," he told CNBC's "Squawk on the Street."
Members of the Fed's policymaking committee last week indicated they expect to raise rates twice this year. At the December meeting, they suggested they would hike four times. The revision brought Fed expectations for interest rates closer to Wall Street's outlook.
"The Fed is clearly in the process of falling behind the curve," Minerd said. "I think that the old trade-off between inflation and unemployment is something that a lot of the members of the committee are willing to live with."
Is the Fed confusing the market?  The dollar index has now risen four days in a row, and commodities and commodity stocks are now coming under pressure as certain Fed speakers try to keep rate hikes on the table.
It was a beautiful narrative:  the FOMC last week clearly reflected a dovish tone, implying two rate hikes in 2016, while modestly upgrading the state of the economy. Only Esther George of Kansas City, a hawk, dissented.
But that narrative is starting to change, for reasons that are confusing the market.  This morning James Bullard, head of the St. Louis Fed and an FOMC voter, implied in an interview that an April rate hike was possible.  He joins Patrick Harker from Philadelphia Fed, a hawk and nonvoter, who also said April was on the table.  Charles Evans and Dennis Lockhart, while both nonvoters, also made hawkish comments recently.
My colleague Steve Liesman wrote about this last night, noting that Fed Chair Janet Yellen may have a "mini-revolt" on her hands.
This has only become more relevant now that Bullard, who is a voting member and perceived to be a centrist, has come out and implied the Fed may be getting behind the curve.
Bullard appeared to have an immediate effect on currency and commodity markets this morning: the dollar strengthened, and commodities dropped, with copper down 1.8 percent, gold down 2.5 percent, oil down 3 percent.
Predictably, materials, energy and industrials, all sensitive to price moves in the dollar, are downside leaders today. This is a change from the trend, since these three sectors have been the market leaders this month and since the Feb. 11 bottom.
Perhaps more importantly, the dollar index has been up four days in a row.  It has now retraced 60 percent of the loss it saw in the days immediately following the  FOMC meeting, when the dollar index dropped a stunning 2.3 percent in two days.
What happened?  It's possible the Fed has seen the market reaction and become alarmed by the complacency.  It's true, the probabilities for even a June rate hike—let alone April--declined dramatically in the face of the Fed meeting.
That may have alarmed the Fed, and so some members may feel the need to keep the markets more alert.
CNBC "Halftime Report" trader Jon Najarian purchased shares of Community Health Systems for his model portfolio.
Community Health Systems is a leading health-care company that owns or operates 197 affiliated hospitals with a total 30,000 beds.
In other moves on Tuesday and Wednesday, Najarian sold his model portfolio position in Celgene in the CNBC trader competition.
Here's why Najarian bought the health-care stock.
"Biotech stocks are so beaten down that it could be time to buy them, technical analyst Ari Wald says."
"The question we're asking ourselves [is]: Has it become so bad it's good?" Oppenheimer's chief technician said Tuesday on CNBC's "Trading Nation."
The iShares biotechnology ETF, IBB, has retraced 50 percent of its gains since 2011, and that's a sign that the market-cap weighted fund may be stabilizing, Wald said. IBB has fallen more than 20 percent in 2016.

However, Wald said it's still too soon to write off the broader downtrend in biotech stocks. As evidence, Wald points to the fact that the IBB is still below the technically significant 200-day moving average.
"We're not ready to make the call [that] this is a long-term advance," he said. But "for those that can cut ties quickly and as needed, we see a pretty nice setup here. ... I think that's a risk I'm willing to take, because I see some nice upside here."
For a short-term trade, Wald recommends buying IBB with a close stop on the trade at $242, the level at which he sees the ETF stabilizing.
According to Max Wolff, chief economist at Manhattan Venture Partners, biotech stocks will likely outperform as the broader market remains weak this year. The defensive rotation into health care may provide a boost to biotech, he said.
Wolff also warned investors to beware of the danger that comes with riskier small-cap biotech names versus established giants.
"It's a risk trade, but get into the shallow end of the risk pool and you might have a chance here, because people do rotate to health-related [stocks] when they're scared," he said on "Trading Nation" Tuesday, a day that was dominated by news of terrorist attacks in Brussels.
More retailers are out with quarterly earnings results this week. While some are late reporters for the Q4 season (GameStop) and others are early reporters for Q1 (Nike, Signet Jewelers and Finish Line), they all have one thing in common: analysts have been revising their estimates downward into the announcements.
First up this week is athletic retailing giant, Nike. Just ahead of its FQ3 2016 report, the company introduced the first-ever power lacing sneaker, an ode to Marty Mcfly in Back to the Future. Nike's creative and innovative prowess has been leaps and bounds ahead of the competition in recent years, solidifying its staunch market position in the footwear industry. In the past 12 months Nike has rode 4 consecutive earnings beats to a 29.6% increase in share price.
Read MoreNike's dip to be short-lived: Analysts
Still this wasn't enough to carry Nike, which reported mixed results in its third quarter earnings. The sportswear giant beat the Estimize consensus by 2 cents on the bottom line but missed its revenue estimates by $176 million. The quarter was highlighted by strong year over year growth in its core North America and Chinese businesses. Moreover, Nike's most important metric, future order growth, crushed expectations. On a constant currency basis, global future orders rose 17% which was supported by China's 36% growth in the same metric. Regardless shares of Nike fell 6% in after hours trading reflecting lingering concerns over weak consumer spending. If this is any indication for the rest of the consumer discretionary companies, this isn't too promising.
Carlos Ghosn, CEO of Nissan-Renault, joined CNBC Pro for an exclusive interview about the future of the auto industry.
During his conversation with CNBC's Phil LeBeau from the New York International Auto Show, Ghosn focused on one of his new limited edition models, the GT-R, and the prospects for self-driving cars.
Watch the video below for Pro subscribers:
Nike investors should be most worried about the excess inventory the apparel giant reported for last quarter, CNBC's Jim Cramer  said Wednesday.
"When people see excess inventory, what they think of is Steph Curry, they think Under Armour," Cramer said on CNBC's "Squawk on the Street." "What [Under Armour CEO] Kevin Plank has done is pick the right guys."
Under Armour last year extended its contract with the NBA superstar through 2024, and signed golf sensation Jordan Spieth to a 10-year deal.
Nike shares fell roughly 5 percent on Wednesday, after the athletic wear company reported revenues that missed Wall Street's expectations.
Analysts quickly brushed off the miss, calling the pullback in Nike's stock — which is up more than 20 percent over the past year — a buying opportunity for investors.
With U.S. stocks at year-to-date highs, Marc Faber is shedding some of his gloom and doom.
"Over the last 12 to 24 months, many sectors have had huge declines," the editor and publisher of the Gloom, Boom & Doom report told CNBC's "Fast Money" traders on Tuesday. "And I see here, there are some opportunities."
Faber points to the gold miner ETF GDX. After falling more than 67 percent to its low on Jan. 19 of $12.40, the ETF has rebounded up to $20.58 in the last month. Faber thinks it's going higher.
"[The U.S. dollar] is not a desirable currency," said Faber, perplexed why the world has been so "enthusiastic" about the greenback. "I think the most desirable currency will be gold, silver, platinum and palladium. I still think the mining sector has embarked on a new bull market."
Gold has surged 16 percent from its December low, but it is down sharply Wednesday.
Gold isn't the only space Faber finds hidden opportunity. He points to Asia where much of the economy and the market is still struggling.
Gold is about to surge to multiyear highs, according to one megabull.
On CNBC's "Futures Now" on Tuesday, Orips Research CEO and Chief Market Technician Zev Spiro said that a break above key resistance earlier this month could send bullion catapulting as high as $1,450, a level the market hasn't seen since May 2013.

Gold is up 18 percent in 2016 and is tracking for its best quarter in more than 30 years. A move to $1,450 would represent a 17 percent increase in value from Wednesday's price of $1,233.60.
Considering the major gains seen in the precious metal over the past several months, Spiro maintained that the best is yet to come for the once beaten down commodity. He pointed to movement of gold on a daily basis and highlighted where the price has broken through a negative trend line that has lasted nearly three years.
"Despite the huge rally already seen in gold, the break above the descending channel signaled higher prices with a minimum expected price objective in the $1,450 area," the technician added.
Spiro didn't specify when this level would be reached, but also warned that there could be choppiness ahead of whenever the gain occurs.
"Indicators are generally positive on the daily, weekly and monthly charts. However, current readings are slightly overbought on the weekly chart," said Spiro, who believes that prices are overextended from the major moving averages. "Therefore, a continued consolidation may occur before [we see] higher prices."
The monthly new home sales number Wednesday is one of the most closely watched leading indicators for the U.S. economy. How should investors trade the number?
Using hedge fund analytics tool Kensho, CNBC Pro screened for which S&P 500 stocks do well or poorly when the new home sales figure beat or missed consensus during the last decade.
Check out which companies are making headlines before the bell:
General Mills — The cereal and food maker earned an adjusted 65 cents per share for its latest quarter, 3 cents above estimates, though revenue was slightly below forecasts. The results were hurt by the strong dollar and weaker U.S. sales.
Nike — The athletic footwear and apparel maker earned 55 cents per share for its latest quarter, 3 cents above estimates. However, revenue was short of expectations, putting the shares under pressure. Nike did chalk up a 12 percent gain in future orders compared to 2 percent a year earlier.
Krispy Kreme Doughnuts — Krispy Kreme beat estimates by a penny a share, with adjusted quarterly profit of 22 cents per share. The doughnut chain's revenue was shy of Street estimates, however, and it forecast full-year earnings below Street forecasts. Krispy Kreme's results in international markets weighed on its overall numbers, with same-store sales dropping 7 percent.
Red Hat — Red Hat reported adjusted quarterly earnings of 52 cents per share, 5 cents a share above estimates, while revenue for the Linux software provider also topped expectations. Red Hat's guidance for the full year also exceeded analysts'   forecasts, thanks to increasing demand for its software and cloud services.
AutoZone — The auto parts retailer increased its stock buyback program by $750 million.
Merck — The drugmaker emerged victorious in a patent battle with Gilead Sciences, with a jury upholding a patent involving Gilead hepatitis C drugs. The jury in the case will now decide how much in damages to award to Merck.
AstraZeneca — AstraZeneca saw its blood thinner Brilinta fail in a clinical trial involving stroke treatment, with the drug not providing benefits that were significantly better than aspirin.
Credit Suisse — The bank said it would implement $821 million in additional cost cuts, including the elimination of 2,000 jobs at its investment banking business.
Nielsen — Nielsen is expanding its digital ad ratings offering to eight new markets, according to Reuters.
Alphabet — The company's Google unit won a key new client, as home improvement retailer Home Depot signed a deal to move some of its data to Google's cloud servers.
Amazon.com — Amazon executive Prentis Wilson will be cross examined today, after testifying at the court proceeding involving the proposed buyout of Office Depot by Staples. The Federal Trade Commission is suing to block the deal, and the testimony appeared to support the regulators' case, according to observers.
United Continental — The airline should appoint one of its two new board members as chairman, according to hedge funds PAR Capital and Altimeter Capital. A Securities and Exchange Commission filing by the two asks that the appointment be made before shareholders vote on a slate of six other directors recently proposed by the funds.
Oracle — Oracle is suing Hewlett Packard Enterprise, saying the company improperly used third party support for Oracle's Solaris operating system. Oracle requires that customers use it for technical support.
Sun Communities  — Sun is buying privately held REIT Carefree Communities for nearly $1.7 billion. Both companies focus on developments for recreational vehicles and manufactured housing.
Since the market bottomed in mid-February, commodities have dramatically rebounded from their lows. Jim Cramer has watched as everything from copper, iron ore, aluminum to oil have worked their way higher.
While the rally took a break on Tuesday, commodities have been on the decline for years, leading Cramer to ask if this is a genuine rally or simply a long overdue, oversold bounce.
Cramer turned to the help of Carley Garner to look at the charts and assess what the future of the commodity complex could look like. Garner is a technician and commodities expert who is the co-founder of DeCarley Trading and a colleague of Cramer's at RealMoney.com.
Garner found that while it has been tough to be bullish on commodities in the past, the group could finally be showing promise. This is significant to Cramer, as the strength in commodities is a huge reason why the stock market has been able to roar higher since February.
In the wake of Tuesday's terrorist attacks in Brussels, Jim Cramer did some serious thinking. He noticed a pattern that every time a terrible attack occurs, every stock in the travel and leisure space goes lower.
"That is just a fact, and an understandable one at that," the "Mad Money" host said.
However, Cramer also noticed the pattern that eventually investors stop being scared, and the travel stocks rebound.
Going into Tuesday's action Delta, United Continental and American were all up versus where they traded prior to the Paris attacks in November. After the London subway attacks in 2005, Priceline plunged 4.5 percent in the next five sessions, but a week later the stock made all of its losses back.
"On a day when this whole group went down, let me tell you why it could be smart to own an airline stock or a company like Priceline, but it could be foolish to bet on a cruise company like Carnival or Royal Caribbean," Cramer said.
Tuesday's terror attacks in Brussels were a grim reminder of our cities' vulnerability in the age of global travel. But there's evidence that investors have become inured to their effects as attacks in the West become more common.
The German DAX index closed up 0.42 percent Tuesday; a decade ago it's doubtful it would have gone up.
An analysis of market performance before and after terror attacks over the past decade suggests that investors don't react as drastically as they once did.
For example, the DAX fell more than 3 percent in five days in March 2004, after the Abu Hafs al-Masri Brigade killed more than 190 people on the Madrid train system. Last November, the DAX reacted to the attacks in Paris by climbing 2.3 percent over five days.
Check out the companies making headlines after the bell Tuesday:
Shares of Nike fell in extended trading after the apparel and sports equipment brand posted lower-than-anticipated sales in the latest quarter. Nike reported earnings of 55 cents per share, higher than the 48 cents expected by Thomson Reuters consensus estimates. But revenues came in at $8.03 billion, below the 8.2 billion expected.
Pharmaceutical giants Merck and Gilead moved when a federal jury said Gilead might have to hand over a portion of its revenue from Sovaldi and Harvoni. The hepatitis C treatments, which generate billions in revenue,  have been part of a patent dispute between the two companies, Reuters reported.
Merck's shares rose on the news while Gilead share prices dipped, as did competitor Biogen.
A major factor in the recent stock rally has been the rise in oil.  Increasingly, there is hope that the data is moving in the right direction.
Oil prices collapsed last year on: 1) slower global growth, 2) excess global production, particularly from U.S. shale, and 3) the lifting of sanctions on Iranian oil.
Look what we have now.  Oil has rallied to just over $40 from $26 a barrel, thanks to:
1) Talk of a production freeze among major producers. This will not reduce supply, but the Russians and the Saudis finally seem to be heeding the call of the Venezuelans and others that they can at least avoid actively making things worse by standing pat on supply.
A major motivation for the Saudis may be the fall in their foreign reserves, which dropped to $616 billion from $732 billion in 2015, according to the IMF.
If implemented, this would be a major change in policy:  a few months ago, "market share at any price" was the main priority.
Just on Tuesday, Saudi Arabia said it would participate in freeze talks even if Iran does not participate.
2) A drop in supply, particularly in the U.S., which is another reason Saudi Arabia may be more amenable to a production freeze.
Many have claimed that any rise in oil will immediately be met with a ramp-up in shale production, but it's not clear how rapidly that would occur.  Hess' CEO, John Hess, recently noted that there is typically a one-year to two-year lag from the first investment decision to the production of oil, longer than many anticipated. He also said that he was more concerned with managing his balance sheet than growing in a low-price environment.
3) Continuing strong demand for oil and particularly gasoline, at least in the U.S.
4) A notable decline in short positions in oil futures. Many have claimed that the rise in oil is nothing more than a short covering rally; while this is certainly an important factor, long positions have also increased, suggesting at least some are betting that some kind of bottom has been put in.
5) Iran supply has come on the market but perhaps more modestly than government projections.
Certainly, there are still tremendous issues. U.S. commercial crude stocks, for example, still stand at 523 million barrels, historically high for this time of year.
And oil is certainly being helped by the weak dollar, which could reverse at any moment.
But looking at the overall trend — slightly higher demand and lower supply, and you cannot help but think we are at least moving in the right direction.
Travel companies saw their stocks fall Tuesday as the industry grappled with the attacks in Brussels.
Shares of American Airlines and Delta Air Lines closed about 1.5 percent lower, while hotel operators Starwood Hotels and Marriott International saw their stocks fall 0.4 percent and more than 1.9 percent, respectively. United Continental Holdings, which owns United Airlines, saw its stock drop over 1 percent.
Brussels, Belgium's capital, was hit by a series of deadly explosions that left at killed at least 31 people. One of the explosions took place in Brussels' main airport of Zaventem and another at the Maelbeek metro station. Brussels Airport CEO Arnaud Feist said that all Wednesday flights were later canceled.
The travel industry is trying to reassure customers following the attacks.
European stocks, especially the transportation sector, were declining, in the wake of Tuesday's terrorist attacks at the main Brussels airport and a metro station near European Union buildings.
Nandini Ramakrishnan, global market strategist at JPMorgan Asset Management, told CNBC's "Worldwide Exchange" the blasts were likely to dampen a key driver of Europe's recovery.
"I think there's a larger story here, where these types of events do affect consumer sentiment," Ramakrishnan said. "We're worried about consumer discretionary sectors, which have been really pioneering the European recovery."
European airlines stocks fell after news of explosions. Air France, for example, was down about 4 percent. Travel on small commercial flights, which Europe is known for, is likely to continue slowing as fears about terrorism reignite, Ramakrishnan said.
"[But] markets are a bit more resilient than we think, people are still waiting to see as the news develops," she said. "It's very difficult for traders and investors to position themselves in any way for something like this."
The attacks in Brussels could impact the so-called "Brexit" referendum in June, said Ramakrishnan. "An event like today certainly does push the case for certain campaign language for the U.K. to leave the EU a bit further."
Ramakrishnan sees shakiness in U.K. equities, because of investor indecision on whether to put money into companies that rely on the close relationship with the European Union.
"We're in a bit of a wait-and-see mode," she added. "The uncertainties could certainly affect markets in a negative way."
U.S. and European stocks traded lower in early Tuesday trading after terror attacks in Belgium's capital. A tough, but necessary reality for traders on Wall Street is that they need to adjust their asset allocation on these tragic events.
How has the market traded in the wake of such attacks in the near and long term?
Stocks are in for a steep and treacherous decline because of the Federal Reserve's policies, Reagan administration aide David Stockman says.
"I would liken the Fed to a blindfolded arsonist. Armed, dangerous and lost," the former director of the Office of Management and Budget told CNBC's "Fast Money" traders on Monday.
"They can't possibly believe that they're going to wait out this cycle at zero interest rates at an economy that's at peak debt," he said. "I think they'll hike one more time this year or they'll make an excuse why they can't."
Stockman said a decline in earnings growth, global headwinds, mismanagement by the European Central Bank and lack of leadership from the Fed have led to a market resting on thin ice.
"As soon as the markets realize that the Fed and the ECB are out of ammunition, it's over," Stockman said. "I think we're in an extremely unsafe world — we've never been here before."
The proof of that uncertainty can be found in Asia, he said. Japan, China and South Korea all saw exports drop by double digits in the first two months of a years.
"The world economy is drifting into recession and we are not decoupled," said Stockman. "We are not exempt."
The S&P 500 has staged a massive 13 percent comeback since February's low but Stockman said broad swings are nothing but the beginning of a long and burdensome bear market.
"We're still in no man's land. We've had a dead cat bounce. It's been strong," Stockman said. "The only thing left is to bury the cat!"
Stockman's target on the S&P 500 is 1,300, a 37 percent drop from Tuesday's open.
"Global deflation is going to turn into a recession worldwide," said Stockman. "They're out of ammo to deal with it."
Now that stocks have rallied back into the green for 2016, one technician is seeing definitive signs of a bottom for the year.
According to Craig Johnson of Piper Jaffray, improving market breadth has convinced him that investors have now seen the 2016 lows. The S&P 500's ability to break above its 200-day moving average was a "major hurdle," and the recent move above 2,050 has pushed stocks toward a new resistance level at 2,080, he said.
"If we can push through that, we're setting ourselves up from those 2015 highs, and we ultimately think we're going to get up to our year-end price objective of 2,350," Johnson said Monday on CNBC's "Trading Nation."

Such a rise would be another 15 percent gain for the S&P 500. Johnson acknowledged that his exceedingly bullish target may be out of line with other market watchers, but broader bearish sentiment could also be a contrarian signal to buy, he said.
"Very few investors believe at this point in time that we can get back to those highs and even exceed it," he said. "This market is on solid footing and ready for the next leg up."
Read MoreThe nagging problem with the stock market's rebound
On the other hand, the options market sees a substantial move higher for the S&P 500 as very unlikely, according to Stacey Gilbert, head of derivative strategy at Susquehanna.
"Some of the worst is already priced in here, although the likelihood of higher moves, if it happens, it looks like it's going to be much more of a slow grind than what we've seen over the last six weeks," she said Monday on "Trading Nation."
Gilbert said based on prices in the options market, traders believe a 10 percent move lower is much more likely than a 10 percent move higher. However, Gilbert also notes that the majority of bearish sentiment has subsided from its peak in the early year sell-off.
"The options market would certainly agree that these huge pops or these huge moves are not favored to be to the upside," Gilbert said. "That being said, I don't see anything indicating that people are nearly as bearish as even four weeks ago."
The market has rebounded by a double-digit percentage since the February lows. Many factors such as the bounce in oil and the Federal Reserve's dovish signal helped, but there may be another force at work — share buybacks.
How can investors trade the market?
Using data from Kensho, a tool designed to quantify historical market events, CNBC Pro analyzed the impact of stock buyback seasonality on market returns.
The attacks in the Belgian capital on Tuesday are unlikely to have a long-term impact on markets, but they could result in new roadblocks to cross-border commerce and lend momentum to Euro sceptics, analysts told CNBC.
European stocks were under pressure but had come off their lows following deadly attacks at Brussels main airport and on the city's metro system. U.S. equities were mixed by late morning.
The attacks came four days after the arrest of Salah Abdeslam, a key suspect in the November Paris terror attacks.
Sherwin-Williams obviously doesn't want to paint itself into a corner. The 150-year-old paint and coatings maker is buying smaller rival Valspar for $11.3 billion, including debt. The companies expressed confidence that the deal would pass regulatory muster. Sherwin-Williams, though, has also crafted an escape route.
For an industry that's generally as boring as watching its main product dry, Sherwin-Williams has been on some kind of roll. Its shares have soared by 260 percent over the past five years, five times the performance of the S&P 500 Index over the same span, as the U.S. housing market rebounded. The stock also trades at 26 times earnings, suggesting yet more growth to come.
Check out which companies are making headlines before the bell:
Apple — A court hearing scheduled for today was canceled, with federal authorities saying they may have a way to obtain information from the iPhone of the shooter in the San Bernardino terror attack without Apple's help. The court hearing had been scheduled to decide whether Apple should be compelled to provide help.
Mattress Firm — Mattress Firm reported adjusted quarterly profit of 53 cents per share, missing estimates by 3 cents, while revenue was also below estimates. The mattress retailer also gave a current quarter earnings outlook well below expectations, and named President Ken Murphy as its new CEO.
Dick's Sporting Goods — The sporting goods retailer announced a $1 billion share repurchase program, to take place over the next five years.
Petrobras — Petrobras reported a record quarterly loss, after it wrote down various assets in the face of slumping oil prices. The Brazilian state oil company posted a loss of $10.2 billion for the fourth quarter.
General Electric — GE signed a memorandum of understanding with the Cuban government, intending to sell power, aviation, and medical equipment in that country.
Yahoo — Yahoo was downgraded to "neutral" from "buy" at Citi, noting a recent 22 percent jump in the stock's price and saying the shares now reflect value in a possible spinoff or sale of assets.
Abercrombie & Fitch — Abercrombie & Fitch was named a "franchise pick" at Jefferies, which said the teen apparel retailer will benefit from improving industry trends and a more favorable cost structure, among other factors.
Zillow Group — RBC upgraded the real estate website operator to "outperform" from "sector perform," following positive results from the firm's real estate survey as well as strong online traffic trends.
Starwood Hotels — RBC downgraded the hotel chain to "neutral" on a valuation basis, following Marriott's improved offer for its rival. RBC also said it sees at least 20 percent upside for Marriott over the next 12 to 18 months, with or without a Starwood deal.
Wynn Resorts — Morgan Stanley upgraded the casino operator's stock to "overweight" from "equal-weight," with a price target of $120 per share. Wynn and other casino companies that operate in Macau have been rebounding lately on the thought that the gaming slump there has bottomed out.
As the United States and Cuba start to normalize relations, "Fast Money" traders picked stocks that could benefit from business on the island.
President Barack Obama arrived in Cuba on Sunday, becoming the first sitting president to visit since 1928. He met with Cuban President Raul Castro on Monday amid a path to normalized relations that remains complicated by the island's political environment.
Still, some companies have jumped at the opportunity to reach the Cuban market as the U.S. eases economic restrictions.
Right now almost every company in the pharmaceutical sector is caught in a bear market, with exception of Johnson & Johnson. While the drug index is down 9 percent for the year, Johnson & Johnson has actually managed to rally more than 4 percent.
What made the success more stunning to Cramer was that for years, Johnson & Johnson had been one of the worst performers in the industry. The rebound might seem sudden, but it has actually been in the works for a long time.
"The truth is that Johnson & Johnson is finally benefitting from a turnaround that was many years in the making, a comeback that has been spearheaded by CEO Alex Gorsky. Yes, the difference here is all about leadership," the "Mad Money" host said.
After last week's action on the market, Jim Cramer was feeling that stocks were overbought, and he was ready to be a little greedy. Then he saw that paint company Sherwin-Williams offered $11.3 billion for its competitor Valspar, and everything changed.
"The deal is a shocker," the "Mad Money" host said.
Drilled down, Sherwin paid $113 a share in cash for Valspar, which closed at $83 on Friday. Valspar had been hurting recently, as it reported a sales shortfall in February that sent the stock down 2 percent; it had been losing Lowe's  business to Sherwin-Williams. The stronger dollar had also hurt earnings.
The chorus of voices that wants to break up Citigroup grew Monday.
Keefe, Bruyette & Woods analysts became the latest to chime in and suggest the bank will need to keep unloading assets to keep investors happy.
"Citi's valuation remains near the lows since the financial crisis and we believe that is a reflection of investor views about the ultimate return of potential of the company post restructuring," KBW analysts wrote. "The primary motivation for splitting up would be the faster return of excess capital to shareholders."
Investors responded positively to the report, and Citigroup stock initially got a modest lift in early trading Monday before reversing to a decline.
However, it isn't clear whether Citi executives will take the push to unbundle the bank seriously, even after years of its stock trading beneath tangible book value, or the value of a company's equity minus assets that could not be sold in the event of liquidation.
"I don't think this is a good time to be doing deals," said Christopher Whalen, senior managing director at the Kroll Bond Rating Agency. "Why would you want to roll out a business now, with comps trading near a 52-week low?"
Swings in oil prices have fueled investors to bet the farm, with some calling for $18 crude and others for $50 by year-end, but a $5 difference in the oil market means big money, according to John Christmann, CEO of Apache..
"Every $5 move in the oil price means about $450 million in cash flow to us, so it absolutely makes a difference," he told CNBC's "Power Lunch" on Monday.
Market volatility has encouraged the exploration and production company to cut costs and reduce its rigs drastically, having gone from 93 to four drilling rigs, as of recent. In this vein, Christmann said that Apache continues a conservative approach despite its optimistic views of an oil bounce back. This year, the company foresees it will reduce its production by up to 11 percent from 2015.
Christmann said that Apache is going to be cash flow neutral in 2016, as it planned for a $35 a barrel budget; a big difference from a year before.
"We budgeted the year at $35, so anything with a four handle in front of it or approaching a four handle today is very welcomed," he noted. "We budget at $50 last year."
Market consolidation: it's boring but necessary.
It's another consolidation day, and you should be happy for that. I know, it's boring, but it's healthy for the markets. We need to move sideways before we have a shot at another leg up.  Otherwise, you quickly get into oversold territory.
Just look at what has happened in the last few weeks:
1) Volatility has dramatically declined, with the Volatility Index at the lowest level since November; Lowry, the oldest technical analysis service in the U.S., has noted that selling pressure "has significantly receded."
2) Oil is no longer in a pattern of lower lows and lower highs.
3) China has stabilized.
Perhaps most importantly, pullbacks have been very minor.  Since Feb. 11, we have been in a rally-consolidation-rally trend.
The initial Feb. 11-17 rally took the S&P  to 1,926 from 1,810, a breathtaking rally of 6.4 percent (!!) in four trading sessions.
Then there was a consolidation phase from Feb. 18-29 when the markets moved mostly sideways.
We hit another big leg up on March 1, when the S&P rallied 2.4 percent on an oil rally and a better-than-expected ISM report.
The market again moved sideways from March 2-10.
The most recent leg up started March 16 on dovish comments from the Fed, which has taken us up another 2 percent in four trading sessions.
Now, it looks like we are in another consolidation period. Volume has dried up, which is normal after a quadruple witching. Are we overbought?
Probably, but not by much. After this kind of rally, it would be normal to have some kind of retracement, where we give up, say, a third of the rally, which would bring the S&P 500 to roughly 1,970 from here.
Why hasn't it happened yet? Because sentiment was so absurdly negative on everything that even stability in China (not an improvement in the outlook, just stability) was greeted as a godsend.
Here's one thing for sure: no one is set up for a bull market this year. No one. Look at the year-end targets for some of the major strategists. Up small. Flattish. No bull market.
That's why I still say, the pain trade is higher.
Check out the companies making headlines after the bell Monday:
Shares of Petrobras tumbled in extended trading after Brazil's state-owned energy company posted a fourth-quarter loss of  $10.2 billion, according to Reuters.The energy company has long been mired in controversy, with historically low energy prices combining with a nationwide corruption investigation.
The company is investigating practices in its human resources department that may have left the state-run oil producer vulnerable to liabilities, local newspaper Valor Economico reported Monday via Reuters.
So much for all that gloom and doom.
With the recent surge in the market, not only is the S&P 500 positive in 2016, but more than 40 percent of stocks in the index are now within 10 percent of their respective 52-week highs. But for investors holding on to winners, there is a way to protect profits in the event of increased volatility.
"It might be good to use options as a stock replacement strategy," Dan Nathan said Friday on CNBC's "Options Action," referring to a common options strategy where investors looks to sell stock and use a portion of those proceeds to make a bullish position using options.
"Some of the risks that were really prevalent in the market a couple of months ago that really took [the market and stocks] down may still be there, and you may consider how to stay involved in the name but still define your risk," added the founder of Riskreversal.com.
Read MoreJPMorgan Chase's forecaster says buy gold, not stocks
CNBC "Halftime Report" trader Jon Najarian purchased shares of Celgene for his model portfolio Monday as the stock recovered from a recent low.
Celgene is a leading global biotech company focused on therapies for cancer and inflammatory diseases.
In other moves, Najarian sold his model portfolio positions in BorgWarner  and Precision Drilling.
Here's why Najarian made Celgene one of his top picks.
Health care stocks have been beaten up, but Smead Capital Management believes investors are missing a buying opportunity, CEO Bill Smead said Monday.
Amid what's been a tough year for the sector, S&P 500 health care stocks are down nearly 7 percent year to date, lagging behind all other sectors. Smead, however, said he's still a believer.
"We're large cap value people. We want to buy meritorious, wonderful companies when everybody else hates them, and I certainly say they hate health care right now," Smead told CNBC's "Squawk on the Street."
Among Smead's picks are Merck, Pfizer, and Amgen, companies that he said boast price-to-earnings ratios well below broader market measures, "fantastic" dividends, and free cash flow.
Investors are getting caught paddling upstream, and as they turn their bearish boats around, the tide will continue to rise for stocks, argues Tom Lee of Fundstrat Global Advisors.
"Investors are offsides right now," Lee said Friday on CNBC's "Trading Nation." "They're bearishly positioned at a time when the weaker dollar, rallying high yield [bonds] and the oil recovery are actually quite bullish."
Lee, a noted prognosticator who previously was JPMorgan's chief equity strategist, pointed out in a Friday note that "short interest has risen 12 of the last 13 months and is currently the highest level since 2009," with short interest as a percentage of tradeable (or "floating") shares currently at 4.4 percent.
"A trillion dollars' worth of equities is sold short," Lee said Friday. "Never in history has a trillion worth of short interest been covered in 30 days. It usually takes nine to 12 months."
In fact, Lee dove into market history to find that in 8 of the past 9 times when short interest rises while credit conditions ease, the S&P 500 has climbed over the next six months, with a median rise of 12 percent.
"This implies as much as 2,250-2,300," the perennially bullish Lee noted.
Whether stocks actually end up rising that substantially, Lee's bottom line is that "there's a huge amount of upside from here because we're talking a trillion sold short."
Read MoreThe nagging problem with the stock market's rebound
Facebook may be hitting all the right notes in its efforts to tap the Chinese market, but the tech behemoth still faces a tough battle, David Chao, co-founder and general partner of DCM Ventures, said Monday.
"I think that Facebook's in a Catch-22. On the one hand, they have been touted by the U.S. media and government that it's a pro-democracy tool, like you've seen in the Arab Spring," he told CNBC's "Squawk Alley."
"I think the more the U.S. media keeps making social media into the Trojan horse for democracy, I think it becomes really, really tough."
Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg has made several trips to China in his years running the company. Most recently, he met with Liu Yunshan, China's propaganda chief, who told him he hopes Facebook can share its experience with Chinese companies to help "Internet development better benefit the people of all countries," China's official Xinhua News Agency reported.
Bank stocks aren't letting the prospect of continued low interest rates keep them down.
After falling on the Federal Reserve's Wednesday announcement that it is cutting expected rate hikes for 2016 in half, financial stocks staged a comeback to end the week up almost 2 percent. However, traders warn that the rally will most likely be short-lived.
An increase in the federal funds rate would come as a boon for banks, whose earnings have been hit by the lower benchmark interest rates on lending over the past several years. But Chantico Global's Sanchez said bank stocks have found another reason to rise — stock buybacks.
"The Fed's dovish comments should actually not be good for the banks," Gina Sanchez said Friday on CNBC's "Power Lunch."
"However you did hear news out of JPMorgan and BofA that we're going to have some major buyback programs," Sanchez said.
JPMorgan announced the authorization of a $1.88 billion share repurchasing program on Thursday. Earlier in March, Bank of America announced a plan to spend $4 million on buybacks, which increased by another $800 million on Friday.
Despite the ability of major buyback programs to boost share prices for the banks, Sanchez remains skeptical of any long-term strength in these stocks.
"This is not long term, it will just prop up as a trading strategy for now," Sanchez said. "With the Fed basically on hold for awhile, I think the move in bank stocks has happened, and we're probably not going to see much more unless we hear of better net interest margins for them."
Bank stocks have risen 8 percent this month amid a broader market rally, as the Dow Jones industrial average and the S&P 500  have erased major losses and turned positive for the year. Despite the recent bounce back, the S&P 500 financial sector is still one of the worst performers of the year, down 4 percent year to date.
Read MoreThe nagging problem with the stock market's rebound
"When we look at them on a relative basis, the rally actually has not been that impressive compared to other segments of the market," said Chris Verrone in a "Trading Nation" segment on Friday.

Verrone, head of technical analysis at Strategas, said banks will have a hard time making a meaningful recovery with 10-year Treasury yields still below 2 percent.
"We're more inclined to back away from this rally," Verrone said. "Ultimately, so long as the yield curve really hasn't steepened to any meaningful extent, it's a tricky environment for the bank stocks to work."

Options expert Pete Najarian joined CNBC Pro for an exclusive Q&A to share his approach to investing.
Najarian, who was ranked one of the top 100 traders by Trader Monthly magazine in 2005 and is a familiar figure on CNBC, highlights the key metrics that every savvy investor must use to his or her advantage, particularly around options.
"Knowledge in the options world, it's critical in today's market," Najarian said, referring to how he uses derivatives to hedge his stock positions while maximizing his upside potential.
Given the endless flow of information, the trader also explains through various examples how he sifts through the data to spot winning opportunities.
During his conversation with Mike Santoli, Najarian also discusses the importance of the Volatility Index (VIX) and what could be next for Apple.
The situation surrounding Valeant Pharmaceuticals has transformed the company into a "great mystery," CNBC's Jim Cramer said Monday.
"The numbers are all over the map. No one knows what the cash flow is; no one knows what the company is doing," he said on "Squawk on the Street." "These are the things [you find] with a private, family company and there's a rivalry. This is a public company. This is quite frankly a travesty."
Cramer made his remarks after Valeant announced CEO J. Michael Pearson would be leaving the company, as the U.S. government investigates its business and accounting practices.
Oil prices and the stock market may finally start moving independently of each other, strategist Bob Doll said Monday.
"That would be great news," Nuveen Asset Management's chief equity strategist and senior portfolio manager told CNBC's "Worldwide Exchange." "The decoupling of the stock market and oil are necessary at some point in time, because we know lower oil is good for the U.S. economy and markets."
Fears surrounding depressed oil, which rocked markets in early 2016, may have been laid to rest, according to Doll.
Both oil prices and stocks bottomed on Feb. 11. Since then, West Texas Intermediate crude surged 44 percent and the S&P 500 gained nearly 11 percent. The S&P's rally last week, pushed the index into the green for the year, based on Friday's close.
"Oil didn't go to $20, we didn't have a recession here in the U.S., [and] China didn't suck us into some big black hole," he said. "Now we're going to look to the real economy in growth and earnings."
It's been an ugly few quarters for corporate earnings thanks to falling oil prices and a rising U.S. dollar, but these two seem to be reversing, which could be a slight boost for earnings this year, Doll said.
"That's what's necessary for stocks to do OK," Doll said, referring to a reversal in oil and the dollar. "If we can get some of that, we'll have some modest earnings improvement for the full year."
The recent march of U.S. crude prices to $40 per barrel won't last, oil expert John Kilduff said Monday, predicting another $25 environment ahead.
West Texas Intermediate crude surged 2.44 percent last week, its fifth-consecutive weekly gain, as OPEC producers announced a meeting in Qatar to discuss an output freeze.
"I think it's going to be a buy-the-rumor, sell-the-news phenomenon to the extent they even do meet next month," said Kilduff, the founding partner of Again Capital, an alternative investment manager specializing energy and metals.
"It's certainly going to disappoint the market," he told CNBC's "Worldwide Exchange," reasoning that even with a freeze the persistent glut and lack of a production cutback sets up oil prices to fall back to their February lows.
Kilduff said the April meeting isn't likely to bear fruit. He based his contention on Saudi Oil Minister Ali Al-Naimi's announcement in February that Saudi Arabia would not cut production because it did not trust other countries to do the same.
Production in Iran, meanwhile, continues to surge after sanctions were lifted in January. "They won't cooperate in the freeze deal until they get to pre-sanction levels."
Crude oil broke above $42 this week, and the trader who nailed oil's drop to $26 says the energy rally has plenty of room to run.
"We have a full-on commodity breakout here," Todd Gordon of TradingAnalysis.com said Thursday on CNBC's "Trading Nation."
In the Federal Reserve's Wednesday policy statement, the central bank "was quite easy, paving the way to higher commodity prices and lower dollar in unison with the rest of the global central banks," he said.
"Let's get on board" with the move higher in commodity prices.
Back in November when crude was trading at $41 a barrel, Gordon famously called for crude to bottom at $26 — something that seemed highly improbably at the time. But on Feb. 11, crude bounced forcefully off of $26.05 — a low the commodity has not seen since.
At this point, "we've poked our head above resistance," Gordon said. "I like the upside in crude oil.  We should be able to go back and retest the old highs from October, which is around $49."
The way Gordon plans to trade oil's surge is through the ETF that tracks the commodity, USO.
"We're going to look to make a move up towards about a 50 percent retracement of the most recent drop," said Gordon.
The 50 percent retracement corresponds to the August low of $12.37 in the ETF, which sets up for a nice confluence of technical resistance and an established long-term target, Gordon said.
To play for a leg higher, Gordon bought the April 10/12 call spread for 60 cents. This is a bullish bet where a trader will buy a call and sell a higher-strike call to offset the cost. The goal is for the stock or ETF to rise to that higher strike, which in this case is $12, by April expiration.
That would represent a 21 percent rise from Friday's opening price.
One of Wall Street's most respected forecasters says the market's rally is in trouble, and that investors are likely to do better by betting on gold.
The Dow Jones industrial average and S&P 500 Index have staged dramatic comebacks from their lows, erasing or nearly erasing their losses for the year. In fact, the Dow's rebound may prove to be its best intraquarter rebound since 1933.
But JPMorgan Global Head of Quantitative and Derivatives Research Marko Kolanovic argued recently on CNBC's "Fast Money" that the strong run may in fact be in jeopardy.
Kolanovic, who is closely followed by the hedge fund industry, said that the rally since Feb. 11 has been more technical in nature, and largely motivated by momentum investors covering their bets that the S&P would fall.
That is, the popular trade of being long momentum stocks against a short position on the S&P 500 is being unwound. This comes as momentum names have sharply unperformed value stocks, leading to nightmarish performance for the long/short mix in question.
Since the market bounce has been largely driven by repositioning, he sees little reason for it to continue in a meaningful way.
"Although risk slightly may be on the upside rather than on downside, I would say fundamentally ... you [potentially] have 5 percent upside and 10 percent downside, so it doesn't look that great," said Kolanovic.
Gold is still expensive, but rising economic risks and market turmoil  mean investors should buy it for insurance, Deutsche Bank said Friday.
The recovery since the global and European financial crises had put the price of gold under some pressure. The yellow metal, which some analysts view as a safe haven or as a protection against rising inflation, typically underperforms during periods when the economy is growing or inflation is low. However, in a note issued Friday, the German Bank said economic signs are pointing in gold's favor.
"There are rising stresses in the global financial system; in particular the rising risk of a U.S. corporate default cycle and the risk of a sharp one-off renminbi devaluation due to the sharp increase in China's capital outflows," Deutsche Bank added."Buying some gold as 'insurance' is warranted."
However, even though gold has fallen from levels over $1,900 an ounce in 2011 to around $1,200 an ounce currently, Deutsche Bank said it still looks expensive, ranking as the most expensive commodity relative to its 15-year trading history.
"A bit like insurance, which is often a grudge purchase for many, some investors may balk at the current levels," it said. "We would, however, argue that given the plethora of negative deposit rates globally, the holding cost of gold is now negligible in many jurisdictions, and therefore gold deserves to be trading at elevated levels versus many other assets."
Longtime bull Tom Lee said Friday it's been tough lately to be positive on stocks, but too many investors may have have tilted to the bearish camp.
Lee, co-founder of boutique equity research firm Fundstrat Global Advisors, did acknowledge that "investor confidence has been shattered," which could pressure the market in the near term. But he views the 2016 turmoil as a growth scare, not a recession.
With only two days of trading left in the month, stocks were on track for a second-straight week of gains and a positive month — quite a different story from January's dismal start of 2016. In Thursday's powerful rally, the Dow Jones industrial average joined the S&P 500 in pulling out of correction territory.
Inflation data out Friday morning will be key for markets trying to project the path of Fed tightening. Investors will also continue to look for signs of stabilization in oil prices.
The Federal Reserve's preferred measure of inflation, the price index of personal consumption expenditures that excludes food and energy, is due at 10 a.m. ET.
"I've been in agreement with the market that inflation's dead, but that's old fashioned," said Bryce Doty, senior fixed income manager with Sit Investment Associates. Fed Chair Janet "Yellen  sees come August, the year-over-year comparisons on oil are going to get tougher. Inflation is going to appear in a rising trend."
Investors should hold on to shares of certain big-name restaurants despite lofty prices, some "Fast Money" traders argued Thursday.
Domino's Pizza shares spiked 13 percent on the day after strong earnings, and the stock has now climbed 19 percent this year. McDonald's stock, meanwhile, has climbed 20 percent in the last year.
"I think you have got to stay with it," trader Guy Adami said of Domino's. He also urges investors to stick with McDonald's shares.
The "Fast Money" traders revealed their final trades of the day.
Tim Seymour was a buyer of Melco Crown Entertainment Limited.
Dan Nathan was a buyer of the Consumer Staples Select Sector SPDR Fund.
Karen Finerman was a buyer of NorthStar Realty Finance Corp.
Guy Adami was a buyer of Coca-Cola.
Even with the recent global macro turmoil investors can still profit by buying long-term growth winners in software, according to a top Wall Street analyst.
"We believe in the long term, secular themes will trump macro concerns," Bank of America Merrill Lynch's Kash Rangan wrote in a note to clients Monday. "Valuation multiples now at August 2011 lows [are] an attractive opportunity."
Rangan is one of the top-ranked analysts on Wall Street. His picks average a 59 percent success rate and he is ranked in the top 13 percent of all analysts for his stock-picking acumen, according to TipRanks.
Here are three of Rangan's favorite software stocks for 2016.
The S&P 500 may have rebounded considerably from the lows hit two weeks prior, but the bulls shouldn't become too excited yet, according to macroeconomic trader and strategist Boris Schlossberg.
"I continue to think this year is going to be the best year to sell rallies ever," Schlossberg said Wednesday on CNBC's "Power Lunch." "Every rally is going to be a fake out."
After several great years for stocks and a flat 2015, "the chickens are coming home to roost," he said.
First of all, the stock market "is just due" for a poor year after all the good times, BK Asset Management's chief FX strategist told CNBC in a phone interview.
On top of that, U.S. profits have fallen, and Schlossberg sees them dropping even further due to slow demand growth. "The transmission mechanism from jobs to wages to spending is simply not taking place," he said.
Read MoreThese 5 stocks are strictly for the bulls
The risk of the global economy falling into a recession is rising as fundamentals remain poor, analysts at Citigroup said in a note Wednesday.
"We are currently in a highly precarious environment for global growth and asset markets after two to three years of relative calm," Citigroup said, noting that global growth was "unusually weak" in the fourth quarter at around 2.0 percent on-year.
"The most recent deterioration in the global outlook is due to a moderate worsening in the prospects for the advanced economies, a large increase in the uncertainty about the advanced economies' outlook (notably for the U.S.) and a tightening in financial conditions everywhere," the bank said.
At the same time, fundamentals remain poor, including concerns about a structural and cyclical slowdown in China and its "unsustainable" currency regime, excessive leverage and rising regional risks, such as the risk the U.K. may exit the European Union, it said.
To be sure, Citigroup is defining a global recession as growth below 2 percent, differing significantly from the usual requirement of gross domestic product (GDP) falling for two consecutive quarters.
The bank also doesn't expect a global recession by any definition as its base case, forecasting global growth at 2.5 percent this year, based on official statistics, and around 2.2 percent, if adjusting for the possibility of Chinese data not being measured accurately.
It looks as if the M&A boom is reaching a "running out of ideas" phase. As the easy pickings in mergers and acquisitions have been harvested, boards seem to be contemplating deals that look like variations on ones that have been tried before but failed for regulatory or other reasons.
Take a look at merger discussions between the London Stock Exchange and Deutsche Boerse. Just four years ago the European Commission vetoed a proposed $9 billion merger between Deutsche Boerse and NYSE Euronext. At the time, the EU's competition supremo said the combined entity would create a "near monopoly" in certain derivative products that would hamper competition.
Check out which companies are making headlines before the bell:
AB InBev — shares fell more than 2 percent in premarket trading after the company reported lower-than-expected fourth-quarter earnings, citing declining U.S. market share and margins.
Domino's Pizza  — The chain's shares rose over 5 percent in premarket trading after the company said its quarterly profits grew by 31 percent, amid strong U.S. sales. The company also said its same-store
In his first speech as Minneapolis Fed President, Neel Kashkari last week stirred up discussion on "too big to fail" banks by calling for serious consideration of breaking up the financial giants 
.
Amid a beaten-up financials sector, talk of breaking up big banks creates an attractive entry point for investors looking for long-term returns, according to The Edge, a consultancy firm that focuses on spinoffs.
"This is probably the biggest opportunity," said Ryan Mendy, the firm's chief operating officer. "If it's ever going to happen, if it's ever going to be brought to light, it's going to be in the next eight months."
The time frame ends with the U.S. presidential election.
Waiting for oil to come back up? You'll be in for a long wait, CNBC's Jim Cramer  said Wednesday.
"U.S. crude will slip from 9.4 million barrels per day to only 8.7 million barrels in 2016; 8.4 million in 2017," Cramer said on "Squawk on the Street." "Canada is going to increase by 200,000, so you're really talking about a net 800,000 drop. That's not what the Saudis want. They want to see a 50 percent drop because they're seeing a 50 percent capex cut number, like what you saw in Chesapeake."
Chesapeake Energy announced the cut Wednesday in its earnings report. Also Wednesday, U.S. oil prices  fell more than 3.5 percent to trade below $31 a barrel one day after American Petroleum Institute data showed that domestic crude stockpiles had risen more than twice than expected.
"We're going nowhere fast in oil, and all those people who bid it up from $26 to $33: short covering and fools, because we go right back to $26," Cramer said.
The U.S. services sector unexpectedly contracted in February, an industry report showed on Wednesday.
Financial data firm Markit said its preliminary, or "flash," reading of its Purchasing Managers Index for the service sector fell to 49.8 from 53.2 a month earlier, falling well short of expectations for a reading of 53.5.
A reading below 50 signals contraction in economic activity.
But with respondents also blaming the harsh weather in the Northeast, the decline in the index probably exaggerates the slowdown in the services sector.
Markets in Japan are getting ready for a huge comeback, according to Stephen Parker of JPMorgan Private Bank.
Japanese stocks have been severely battered in recent months, with the Nikkei 225 index falling 15 percent this year. But Parker says the market is actually set to recoup all those losses, and finish 2016 in the green.
In past years, Japanese companies were focused on preserving jobs, he said. Now, he expects to see a "major change" in executives prioritizing shareholder returns. This will lead to companies using their accumulated cash piles to raise dividends and implement stock buybacks.
Japan "is now delivering some of the best earnings growth in the world. And if you think about a world where overall economic growth is pretty slow, you want to focus on markets where you can actually see companies do things to improve margins and deliver on earnings growth," Parker said Tuesday on CNBC's "Futures Now."
Compared to U.S. companies, Japanese firms have nearly three times as much cash as a percentage of market cap, Parker said. He added that 2016 is on a record-breaking track for Japan in terms of buybacks.
Read More Options market sees 50% chance of massive S&P plunge
In addition, Parker expects Japanese companies to see earnings growth this year of 5 to 10 percent. Coupled with the sell-off in Japanese stocks, Parker said the current environment provides investors with a substantial buying opportunity.
"The markets are actually some of the cheapest we're seeing anywhere," he said.
According to Parker, several specific catalysts have contributed to Japan's market rout. For one, he said, investors have cashed out on profits after the Nikkei outperformed most other stock markets in 2015. Japan has also suffered from nervousness surrounding China's economic slowdown, as well as concerns over the country's monetary policy.
Parker also said investors have attributed rising Japanese stocks to a sales grew by 8.66 percent.
Kohl's — Kohl's delivered lighter-than-expected full-year guidance and warned investors that sales could fall this year. The retailer forecasts earnings to range between $4.05 and $4.25 a share, below the Reuters average of $4.24 a share.
Best Buy — The electronics retailer's stock dropped 2 percent in premarket trading after reporting a 4.1 percent decline in quarterly revenues, hurt by weak demand for mobile phones and computing products. The company also announced a two-year buyback program of up to $1 billion.
Salesforce.com  — Its shares gained over 9 percent in premarket trading after the cloud computing giant posted better-than-expected quarterly revenue and raised its full-year guidance.
L Brands — The parent company of Victoria's Secret reported better-than-expected fiscal fourth-quarter earnings and revenue. The company's stock was up slightly in premarket trading.
HP Inc. —The company's shares fell over 3.5  percent in premarket trading after posting a larger-than-expected revenue drop in its personal systems and printing segments. The company did, however, post quarterly earnings and revenue that were in line with expectations.
Bankrate — The personal finance information provider saw its shares plunge nearly 40 percent in premarket trading after reporting that lower advertising revenue and competition from tech giant Google hurt its earnings. (Disclosure: CNBC has a content-sharing partnership with Bankrate's site.)
—Reuters contributed to this report.
Everywhere Jim Cramer goes, people ask him if the U.S. is headed into a recession. And then he hears other whispers, saying that the Fed feels the need to raise rates and maybe it will happen in March.
"When you look beyond the market's tight linkage to the price of oil, the idea that we could be headed into a recession has become a powerful theme, a whispered undercurrent in this environment that surfaces whenever oil takes a dive," the "Mad Money" host said.
In fact, Cramer thinks the two separate conversations should be combined together to say, "We are going to have a recession and the Fed is going to raise rates right into it."
Or maybe a more cynical approach would be to say that the U.S. is going to have a recession because of the Fed, Cramer said.
St. Louis Fed President Jim Bullard said Thursday the silver lining of the stock market's correction was it averted an asset bubble.
Despite investor concern about the 2016 market downtown after years of strong returns, Bullard told CNBC's "Squawk Box" that U.S. equities seem to be better priced at current levels.
"If we had continued to go up at that same pace, that would have been an asset pricing bubble," he said. "You're [now] closer to fair value."
Some food trades have flourished during an otherwise rough year for stocks, but "Fast Money" traders said Wednesday they would hesitate to jump into the sector.
Tyson Foods, Campbell Soup and Hormel Foods shares have climbed 22, 15 and 10 percent this year, respectively. In that span, the S&P 500 has fallen more than 5 percent.
Some traders contended that those food stocks look too expensive at their current levels.
"It's absurd the multiple you're paying for that company," trader Tim Seymour said of Tyson.
The "Fast Money" traders delivered their final trades of the day.
Tim Seymour was a buyer of the iShares MSCI Brazil Capped ETF.
Steve Grasso was a buyer of the Utilities Select Sector SPDR Fund.
Karen Finerman was a buyer of JPMorgan Chase.
And, Pete Najarian went with a retail trade. He was a buyer of Target. weakening yen. But even if the yen continues to strengthen, the pressure on stocks should soon abate, in his view.
"The fact that a lot of people were associating the rally in Japan with a weaker currency, I think that's an old story," he said. However, "as investors begin to look back and see what companies are delivering from an earnings perspective, that potentially is a big positive and a big tailwind for Japanese companies."
Closing the economic divide in America starts with a better understanding of how and where it shows up for millions of households.
There are a number of different ways to measure the gap, but the most powerful forces at work are differences in income growth and access to a good-paying job.
Here are some of the highlights of disparities in income and employment across racial and ethnic lines.
The wealth gap starts with income levels that remain sharply divided at all age groups along both those lines.
Oil prices are likely to remain under pressure this year as Saudi Arabia and Iran compete for market share in weak or slowing Asian economies, the editor of The Schork Report said Wednesday.
Stephen Schork said he does not necessarily agree with forecasts that oil will rebound into the $40s in the next 12 months, citing Saudi oil minister Ali Al-Naimi's comments on Tuesday that OPEC and non-OPEC members will not cut production.
"If you are long oil, get it through your head. Saudi Arabia is not going to throw you a life preserver," he told CNBC's "Squawk Box."
Al-Naimi's remarks at IHS CERAWeek in Houston sent oil prices spiraling on Tuesday after futures had risen in previous sessions, bolstered by a plan put forward by Saudi Arabia and Russia to cap output at January levels. That plan would be contingent on participation from OPEC and non-OPEC members.
Check out which companies are making headlines before the bell:
Lowe's — The home improvement retailer reported a 5.6 percent increase in quarterly revenue, while its earnings per share came in line with expectations. Lowe's shares, however, were down 2 percent in premarket trading.
Target — Shares of the retail giant rose slightly in the premarket, despite posting quarterly results that slightly missed analyst expectations. The company, however, said it expects fiscal 2016 earnings per share to come in between $5.20 and $5.40, above the expected $4.72.
Chesapeake Energy  — Shares of the natural gas company rose more than 9 percent in premarket trading, despite reporting a fourth-quarter loss of $3.36 per share. The company also said it expects a production decline of as much as 5 percent for 2016.
Yahoo — Canyon Capital, a major Yahoo shareholder, is urging the company to move quickly with its core business sale. Yahoo officially launched the sale of its core business on Friday, a move that Canyon Capital and other shareholders, including activist Starboard Value, had been pushing for since late last year. (DISCLOSURE: CNBC has a content-sharing agreement with Yahoo's finance site.)
First Solar — The solar panel maker posted third-quarter revenues that beat analysts' expectations, but its earnings per share fell to $1.60 from $1.90 the year before. The company's stock was up more than 2 percent in premarket trading.
Johnson & Johnson — A Missouri state jury ordered the Dow component to pay $72 million in damages to the family of a woman whose death from ovarian cancer was linked to her use of the company's talc-based Baby Powder and Shower to Shower.
Viacom — The media giant's CEO, Philippe Dauman, said Viacom is looking to farm out a minority stake in Paramount Pictures.
With the earnings season over, companies are free again to buttress their share prices with big stock buyback announcements. What can investors do to benefit from this trend?
Using Kensho, a quantitative tool used by hedge funds, CNBC Pro found an ETF tracking companies with a history of buybacks which outperform the market after earnings season ends and the repurchase announcements come rolling out.
With the price of crude taking a nosedive after a tremendous run above $30, Jim Cramer wanted to get a sense about where major oil stocks could be headed.
"I'm a big believer in the lower-longer thesis — the idea that crude will stay down, likely for the rest of the year until he hedges expire at most of the American producers — but there's a lot of emotion invested in which way oil is going to jump," the "Mad Money" host said.
That is why Cramer turned to Robert Moreno, a chartist, publisher of RightViewTrading.com and a colleague of Cramer's at RealMoney.com. Specifically, Cramer was interested to know what the charts indicated for the large integrated oil and oil service plays if crude holds above $30.
Overall, Moreno found that the technicals were sound for Exxon but is skeptical that the stock could continue to roar higher. Until the volume gets more positive, he suggested holding off.
Next up was Chevron, which was much more compelling for Moreno. Last week, the stock finally broke above a key level of $85 and is only a few points away from another ceiling of resistance at $89. Ultimately Moreno was more bullish on Chevron than he was about Exxon.
But it was the biggest losers of the oil patch that worried Cramer, as he thinks if oil drops to $10 it is the financials that have a large amount of energy exposure could be the true oil victim, second to the oil stocks themselves.
Read MoreCramer: Bullish charts for these big daddy oils
2015 was not a good year for a company to go public.
More than 70 percent of U.S. companies that held initial public offerings in 2015 are trading below their debut prices, a figure that included 9 out of the 10 largest IPOs, The Wall Street Journal reported last week.
Overall, 2015 was the worst year to have an offering in the last 20 years. IPOs issued in 2015 are down a median of about 25 percent as of Friday's close, which is worse than the IPO slumps that occurred in other market downturns.
Here's the annualized return (or year to date for companies that have traded for less than a year) for the nearly 4,000 IPOs on the Nasdaq and New York Stock Exchange since the beginning of 1995. If a company was sold or was delisted, the return is calculated using the price on the last day the security was listed.
The "Fast Money" traders gave their final trades of the day.
Pete Najarian is a buyer of Market Vectors Gold Miners ETF (GDX)
Steve Grasso is buyer of PulteGroup (PHM)
Dan Nathan is a seller of PowerShares QQQ ETF (QQQ)
Guy Adami is a buyer of Rockwell Collins (COL)
With the price of crude taking a nosedive after a tremendous run above $30, Jim Cramer wanted to get a sense about where major oil stocks could be headed.
"I'm a big believer in the lower-longer thesis — the idea that crude will stay down, likely for the rest of the year until he hedges expire at most of the American producers — but there's a lot of emotion invested in which way oil is going to jump," the "Mad Money" host said.
That is why Cramer turned to Robert Moreno, a chartist, publisher of RightViewTrading.com and a colleague of Cramer's at RealMoney.com. Specifically, Cramer was interested to know what the charts indicated for the large integrated oil and oil service plays if crude holds above $30.
There have only been a few times this year when Jim Cramer thought that a company really got it. Though these occurrences are very few and far between, he was absolutely mesmerized by Home Depot on Tuesday.
"Apparently we have just enough Home Depots, just enough to generate spectacular 8.9 percent same-store sales growth, I don't know if I have the ability to explain just how amazing that is," the "Mad Money" host said.
Facebook and Alphabet totally astonished investors in their conference calls, too. Cramer described Facebook's call as "gem after gem of greatness" in its demonstrations of successful ad campaigns, empirical evidence of Facebook use and grandiose but realistic plans for virtual reality.
Macy's shares rose 3 percent after the retailer reported results that beat meager expectations and provided encouraging signals about plans to better monetize the company's real estate. But one market watcher would advise staying away from the beaten-down stock.
"Macy's has a lot of problem," Eddy Elfenbein, editor of the Crossing Wall Street blog, said Tuesday on CNBC's "Power Lunch." "The silver lining is their real estate portfolio. ... But there are a lot more challenges ahead."
For starters, "they won't see sales increase for at least another year," he said.
Indeed, Macy's announced Tuesday that it expects comparable sales to fall "by approximately 1 percent" in fiscal 2016.
The stock has managed a 21 percent rally this year — but only after shedding nearly half of its value in the previous year.
Stacey Gilbert, head of derivative strategy at Susquehanna, said Tuesday on "Power Lunch" that Macy's has become a "headline stock," and as such, options prices have begun to price in bigger expected moves.
The primary such headlines will have to do with Macy's real estate holdings. In January, activist investment firm Starboard Capital urged the department store chain to spin off its real estate holdings in order to "unlock value," and Macy's CEO Terry Lundgren has said the company is "all over" plans to "get value ... without disrupting our business."
Read MoreMacy's is pursuing real estate opportunities: CEO
Oil prices fell as much as 5 percent Tuesday after Saudi Oil Minister Ali Al-Naimi said that producers may meet in March on an output freeze, but that crude production cuts will not happen.
Saudi Arabia, Russia, Qatar and Venezuela proposed last week a production freeze at January levels in response to the global glut and sustained low prices of crude.
Still, keeping production where it is will encourage continued volatility in oil prices, Jeffrey Currie, global head of commodities research at Goldman Sachs, told CNBC's "Fast Money Halftime Report" on Tuesday.
You knew it was going to happen. Today (Tuesday) is the first day since the Feb. 11 bottom where markets have exhibited weakness though it's still modest by the declines earlier in the year.
The S&P 500 has rallied more than 6 percent in the last six trading sessions. Until today.
Here's the big question: is this weakness today normal backing and filling, or is it the start of the market rolling over again?
My bet is that this is not the start of a grand rollover, but there are plenty who are still nervous.
A lot has stabilized in the last two weeks.  China.  The yen is not as volatile.  But oil—and the Fed's intentions—remain the big wildcards, and without stability in those two issues we have no peace in the markets.
The cause of most of today's weakness was comments from the Saudi oil minister that there would be no production cuts.  On the surface, this is not interesting, since no one expected them to cut.
But that's not the way the market saw it.  The market hoped that the announcement they were "freezing" production at January levels also implied that the Saudis and others would be more open-minded about doing cuts down the road.
Those hopes have now been decisively dashed.  Oil dropped and took a good part of the market with it, notably bank stocks that now seem heavily levered to energy loan exposure.
For the Saudis and the rest of the producers, their calculation is pretty simple:  the price of oil can't rebound too much, because then you will never get the production cuts that they want.
That's why staying in the range around $30 might work:
1) it's a floor, but there still will be production cuts as time goes on;
2) it give visibility on energy earnings—OK they're not great, but analysts estimates have been too high so if we start modeling with estimates firmly at $30 at least there's visibility, and
3) it will help with visibility on banks, which have been hit on energy loan issues.
So if oil stays above $30, there's a good chance this is indeed just backing and filling, and not the start of another huge decline.
As for the Fed, I anticipate they will update their economic outlook on March 16th and greatly lower the infamous "dot plot" and their expectations of more rate hikes.  They will finally come into line with what the market already believes.
I doubt he will tip his hand, but many will be watching Fed Vice-Chair Stanley Fischer deliver his "Future of the Global Economy" speech at the very same CERAWeek forum the Saudi oil minister spoke at.
The best way to describe the markets right now might be "quiet unease."  Not great, but much better than the "full-blown panic" description that we had a few weeks ago.
A simple but elusive strategy has been beating the market this year: Just own what the hedge funds don't.
Stocks with the lowest concentration in hedge fund portfolios as measured by equity capitalization have crushed the S&P 500 this year, according to a Goldman Sachs analysis. The "low-concentration" basket has turned in a basically flat performance that while unspectacular far outdistances the market index, which is down 6 percent year to date.
That means owning stocks such as Realty Income, Exxon Mobil, 3M and Reynolds American, all of which have a comparatively low concentration in hedge fund portfolios, has been a better deal than holding Legg Mason, Autodesk, Williams Cos. and Tenet Healthcare, companies that are popular with managers.
Read MoreWhy hedge funds' pain could be your gain
The latter group, or most concentrated stocks, has performed miserably, dropping about 10 percent year to date, according to Goldman.
Deutsche Bank downgraded shares of Chipotle Mexican Grill to a "sell" from a "hold" on Tuesday, citing a lack of faith in the company's ability to recover after a series of foodborne illness outbreaks.
"We still question what a recovery will look like (and when it will materialize)," Deutsche Bank analysts said in a research note. They said that while management has been proactive in "trying to regain consistency and customer trust, there is tremendous uncertainty on how well they will be received."
The bank's analysts foresee a 24 percent drop in Chipotle's stock price, a plunge to $400 from its Feb. 22 price of $525.90. Shares in the restaurant are down more than 22 percent in the past 12 months, even though the stock is up more than 8 percent since January.
Options traders are targeting a group of stocks they believe will post sharp moves this earnings season, setting up a potential trade around those names.
Based on options activity, MKM Partners' derivatives strategist Jim Strugger identified the stocks that could be ripe to soar or dive after posting fourth-quarter results.
By paying attention to activity in options, traders aim to get a reading of sentiment ahead of market-moving events.
Home Depot might be the quintessential American stock of this market cycle, exemplifying many of the crucial themes that investors have come to rely on.
The home improvement retailer in the past several years has curtailed its ambitions, refused to expand the chain, defended high profit margins, tallied more sales from its core domestic customers and bought back an enormous portion of its shares.
It's all worked extremely well for Home Depot and its shareholders, who have enjoyed a 240 percent surge in the stock price over the past five years, versus approximately 45 percent for the S&P 500 and 72 percent for the SPDR S&P Retail sector ETF. Tuesday's fourth-quarter earnings report showed all these trends clicking yet again with brisk comparable-store sales growth of 7.1 percent and a per-share earnings increase of 11.4 percent.
Yet in some respects, Home Depot is an exceptional case, demonstrating how rare it is for a company to combine generous buybacks, financial discipline and strong top-line growth.
As the volatility index hit its lowest level of the year this week, one trader placed a large bet that stocks will continue to rally.
The CBOE volatility index, also known as the VIX, measures investor uncertainty based on the price of S&P 500 options. Put options can be used as a hedge against downside risk, so the higher the price, the more investors are willing to pay for that protection.
On Monday, one trader bought 13,000 of the VIX June 15-strike put options for 20 cents each. This is a $260,000 bet that the VIX will fall below 15 by June expiration (since VIX options have a $100 multiplier).
Read MoreDon't panic about market volatility: Jack Bogle
A fall to 15 would be a 24 percent drop from where the index traded on Tuesday.
"[This] is a long way down, even from the levels we've seen it decline to today," Mike Khouw of Optimize Advisors said Monday on CNBC's "Fast Money." "For the VIX to get to that level, the S&P would need to rally quite significantly. ... At least one person is betting that this rally could continue."
Khouw said for the VIX to fall to 15, the S&P 500 should rise at least to 2,050. On Tuesday morning, stocks reversed gains for the week, with the S&P 500 falling to 1,927 by late morning.
Home Depot's latest quarterly results have competitors in awe, CNBC's Jim Cramer said Tuesday.
The home improvement giant and Dow component posted better-than-expected fiscal fourth-quarter earnings and revenue, as U.S. same-store sales rose 8.9 percent.
"This is the kind of quarter where you just think it's not possible. I looked at this quarter, I said 8.9? … There must be something wrong with this press release,' because you can't do those kinds of numbers in America," Cramer said on "Squawk on the Street." "How do they do it? All the other retailers are saying 'wow.'"
The importance of drug pricing and other health-care issues in the presidential campaign will keep a lid on health-care stocks, according to a Wall Street analyst.
Since Hillary Clinton's September tweet blasting drug price gouging, the S&P 500 biotechnology index is off by double digits, compared to the broader benchmark being down just about 1 percent.
"The U.S. presidential election has shifted into overdrive and health care is again one of the campaign trail's prominent and controversial issues," Kelly Bogdanov, vice president and portfolio analyst at RBC Wealth Management, wrote in a note to clients Feb. 16. "As the candidates kick around this political football, share prices and sentiment have soured. Investors should approach the near term with caution."
A Donald Trump presidency, which could get another major boost from the Nevada caucuses Tuesday, won't be that much friendlier to the industry either, according to RBC.
JPMorgan Chase is adding another layer in its capital buffer against energy, metals and mining loan losses, setting aside $600 million for losses, executives announced Tuesday.
The bank also warned that first quarter revenue from investment banking fees is down about 25 percent year over year, with markets revenue down 20 percent from a year earlier. Shares traded near their lows of the day after the warning.
Nevertheless, bank CEO Jamie Dimon said the company is profitable and is glad he put up more than $26 million of his own money to buy 500,000 shares on Feb. 11. The stock is up about 4 percent since then, netting him more than $2 million in profit.
"I had a morning where I wasn't doing anything," Dimon said at the company's investor day presentation.
Earlier:
The bank also projected that, should the price of oil remain at or below $25 a barrel, it will have to set aside $1.5 billion more to cover potential losses through the next 18 months.
"We've taken reasonably conservative estimates," CFO Marianne Lake told attendees.
Read MoreWe're not chasing this oil rally: Strategist
A report Tuesday from investment bank Jefferies, which is bullish on JPMorgan, notes that the bank's reserves against energy loans it funded represents a cushion of approximately 9 percent.
With stocks around the world rising Monday, some traders say short-term gains for the S&P 500 should continue thanks to changing sentiment among investors.
Erin Gibbs, equity chief investment officer of S&P Investment Advisory, said positive economic data could assist a minor recovery for the S&P 500. Among the good news, Gibbs noted that retail sales increased in January, with upward revisions for December. She also cited numbers from core CPI, jobless claims and industrial production that pointed to strength in the overall economy.
"We're seeing sentiment change, things are looking a little better," Gibbs said Monday on CNBC's "Power Lunch." "We could see valuations expand a little."
Gibbs said the data could drive up the forward price-to-earnings ratio on the S&P 500, which currently trades at 16.5 times forward earnings. Tentatively, Gibbs sees the ratio increasing to 17 times forward earnings, or around 2,000.

On Monday, the S&P 500 gained nearly 1.5 percent to 1,945.
Read MoreThe S&P is closing in on a critical level
Ari Wald, head of technical analysis at Oppenheimer, also is targeting a move to 2,000 for the S&P. Driving the short-term move, Wald credits deeply pessimistic sentiment among investors and greater volume into advancing shares than declining shares.
"Underneath the data, the volume trends have been very encouraging," he said Monday in a "Trading Nation" interview.

Specifically, Wald favors reputable, blue chip names to bounce higher than the rest. However, he also warns of another dip in equity prices, once the S&P reaches the 1,965 to 2,000 range.
"[We] still have to deal with this broken trend," Wald said Monday. "We think it's too soon to give the 'all clear.'"
Check out which companies are making headlines before the bell:
Home Depot — The Dow industrial average component reported better-than-expected fourth-quarter results amid an improving housing market. Home Depot's stock was up about 3 percent in the premarket trading.
Macy's — Shares of the retail giant rose more than 7 percent in premarket trading after the company posted mixed quarterly results. Macy's beat analysts' expectations on revenue, but missed on earnings per share. The company also reported a 4.3 percent decline in same-store sales.
Toll Brothers — The luxury homebuilder posted quarterly earnings per share that were in line with expectations, while beating revenue estimates, as it sold homes at higher prices.
Fitbit — Shares of the wearables maker were down more than 15 percent in premarket trading after the company reported better-than-expected quarterly results, but posted weak forward-looking guidance.
Motorola Solutions —  Shares of the radio systems and walkie-talkie maker surged nearly 8 percent in premarket trading after beating expectations on quarterly earnings per share amid fewer expenses. Revenue, however, missed estimates.
Honeywell, United Technologies — United Technologies said in a statement it had talked with Honeywell about "a range of potential collaborative options," but said that "significant regulatory obstacles, customer concerns and valuation issues" led to it not exploring the options further. CNBC reported on Monday that both companies had recently held talks about a merger.
Valeant Pharmaceuticals — The pharmaceutical company said it would restate financial results for 2014 and 2015, identifying some sales to Philidor that should have been recognized when products were dispensed to patients.
Apple, Microsoft — Bill Gates, Microsoft's co-founder, told The Financial Times on Tuesday that technology companies should be forced to cooperate with law enforcement. Gates' remarks were made as tech giant Apple is embroiled in a legal battle over whether or not it should help the FBI in unlocking the iPhone of one of the San Bernardino shooters.
It was just 10 days ago when it seemed to Jim Cramer that the world was falling apart, and there was intense pressure to sell everything and buy Treasurys. Now, that panic seems to have faded away with Monday's production of a terrific rally.
So what the heck happened that made things better?
While the primary catalyst in Cramer's opinion was oil and futures, there was another factor that he thinks is being overlooked by everyone.
"Bernie Sanders looks like a paper tiger. I swear the media made this guy seem like a bona fide candidate for the Democratic nomination, but suddenly with a small loss in Nevada he is buried alive," the "Mad Money" host said.
It was also confirmed that Honeywell was in talks to purchase United Technologies, to dominate the aerospace and climate control space. While Cramer thinks this idea is brilliant, he did not know if the deal could ever be compensated because of antitrust issues.
However Cramer did speculate that Honeywell's discussions could reveal that the big capitalization cyclicals are dramatically undervalued in the market.
So even if both presidential candidates claim not to be a friend on Wall Street, Cramer interpreted the combination of two pro-business candidates emerging, oil rising, earnings forgiveness, a Chinese story that hasn't become more negative and increased M&A activity as the reason for stocks suddenly turning around.
Read MoreCramer: Thank Bernie Sanders for stock surge
The monthly existing home sales number Tuesday is one of the most closely watched leading indicators for the U.S. economy. How can investors trade the number using history as a guide?
Using hedge fund analytics tool Kensho, CNBC Pro screened for which S&P 500 securities do well or poorly when the existing home sales report beats or misses consensus by a sizable amount over the past decade.
Here is what we found.
Shares of metals maker Century Aluminum have more than doubled in the past month, but traders don't expect much further upside.
Century Aluminum shares surged 21 percent on Monday after jumping 15 percent on Friday. The fundamental impetus is the earnings report Century released after Thursday's closing bell, in which the company announced it lost 50 cents per share. That beat dour expectations amid continued trouble in aluminum production businesses.
Read More  Century reports 4Q loss
Fitbit reported earnings and revenue on Monday that easily topped analysts' expectations, but its shares plunged after weaker-than-expected guidance for the current quarter.
The wearable fitness device maker posted fourth-quarter earnings of 35 cents per share, adjusted, on $712 million in revenue. Earnings rose from 21 cents per share a year earlier, while sales climbed from $370 million.
Wall Street expected Fitbit to post earnings of 25 cents per share on $648 million in revenue, according to a consensus estimate from Thomson Reuters.
In her second day of congressional testimony, Fed Chair Janet Yellen should do a better job of stressing the importance of market stability, CNBC's Jim Cramer said Thursday.
"This would be a great time for her to put a stake in the ground saying we're the engine. We're the locomotive. We can't get derailed," Cramer said on "Squawk on the Street."
Yellen should also emphasize that rate hikes will happen when necessary rather than on a strict timetable, Cramer added.
As Yellen testified before the House Financial Services Committee on Wednesday, Treasury yields fell. The spread between 10-year and two-year yields moved to the flattest it's been since December 2007 — at 99.40 basis points. The market has been moving in this direction, and it continued to do so as some in the bond market were disappointed that Yellen did not say more about slowing rate hikes or even reversing them.
Major stock indexes were sharply lower Thursday. The pan-European STOXX 600 fell 2.6 percent as banks in the region plunged, with Deutsche Bank dropping 4.7 percent and UBS falling 2.6 percent.
"It would be terrific for Yellen to be a little more statesmanlike and look at the world. Recognize that we have an election in this country right now that is not signifying stability," said Cramer. "I'm not telling her to say rates are on hold. She should say: 'Listen, this not the time. We're just focused on the world and trying to continue the engine.'"
Following another round of financial market turbulence, fed fund futures contracts don't see the Federal Reserve raising rates until at least February 2018 and in fact are pricing in a small likelihood of a rate cut.
Diminished expectations for rates come as investors worry that a global slowdown could send the U.S. into a recession this year.
Markets appeared to be in for another rough day Thursday, with stock market indicating the Dow Jones Industrial Average likely to decline 250 points off the open. Government bond yields also slumped, with the benchmark 10-year note hovering around 1.6 percent.
The number of Americans filing for unemployment benefits fell more than expected last week, suggesting the labor market remained on solid footing despite slowing economic growth and a stock market rout.
Initial claims for state unemployment benefits declined 16,000 to a seasonally adjusted 269,000 for the week ended Feb. 6, the Labor Department said on Thursday. The prior week's claims were unrevised.
Economists polled by Reuters had forecast claims slipping to 281,000 in the latest week. The drop last week pushed down claims to near their post-recession lows around 256,000, pointing to very low layoffs despite an uncertain economic outlook and equities turmoil.
A Labor Department analyst said there were no special factors influencing last week's claims data and no states had been estimated.
The FANG basket  is down much worse than the market this year, but it rebounded Wednesday. If you want to maximize a comeback by these tech darlings, which other stocks are poised to rise alongside them?
We found some of the lesser-known names that are highly correlated to these stocks.
FANG is an acronym created by CNBC's Jim Cramer for a basket of high-growth technology stocks — Facebook, Amazon.com, Netflix and Alphabet (formerly known as Google).
The four stocks are on average down more than 15 percent this year versus the S&P 500, which has fallen more than 9 percent.
Using Kensho, a quantitative tool used by hedge funds, CNBC Pro looked at which names do the best when the FANG basket stocks traded up 2 percent or more.
Here is what we found.
Amazon.com said Wednesday it may buy back up to $5 billion in stock over the coming years.
Shares rose more than 2 percent in after-hours trading on the news. The company said the program does not have a set expiration time.
Amazon said this buyback would replace a $2 billion authorization from 2010.
As of Dec. 31 it had used just $1.24 billion of that prior program.
The new buyback comes amid weakness in the stock, with shares down 28 percent from their recent high on Dec. 29.
Please check back for further Amazon updates.
The "Fast Money" traders gave their final thoughts of the day.
Pete Najarian is a Buyer of Cisco (CSCO)
Steve Grasso is a Buyer of Disney (DIS)
Karen Finerman is a Buyer of FitBit (FIT)
Guy Adami is a Buyer of Microsoft (MSFT)
Jim Cramer thinks the stock market is playing a dangerous game.
Every day the market plays rock, paper, scissors. It goes on endlessly until the close, and then starts right back up at the end of the day.
The scissors are the Federal Reserve, and the rock is oil. Oil can smash anything that the Fed throws at it. That means Janet Yellen tell Congress as much as she wants about the need to raise interest rates, but oil is the powerful force that can crush her impact on the market.
"Oil is that powerful a force, and it has the added advantage of being dumb as a rock because when oil goes higher it is good for the overall market, but particularly for those companies that do poorly in the real world when oil goes higher," the "Mad Money" host said.
We're already a few weeks into February, and there hasn't been a single initial public offering in 2016.
Jim Cramer was so disturbed by this fact that he decided to take a closer look at the performance of the companies that went public in 2015 to figure out why others were deterred from going public this year.
"That's right, not one IPO in January. Just a big fat goose egg, making it the first month without a deal since September of 2011," the "Mad Money" host said.
The IPO class of 2015 was left in a complete debacle. Of the 211 stocks that went public last year, only 45 are up from their offering price. Four are unchanged, and the remaining 162 are down from their IPO prices.
In other words, 76.8 percent of stocks that went public in 2015 have lost money, even if investors got in on the initial deal.
The recent weakness in financial stocks does not necessarily point to the onset of recession but is likely part of a market trough, Joseph Zidle, portfolio strategist at Richard Bernstein, said Wednesday.
The S&P 500 financials sector closed in bear market territory on Tuesday, hammered by fears of a European banking crisis, concerns about profitability as interest rates remain low and exposure to ailing energy firms.
Bank stocks and the broader market bounced back in European trade on Wednesday on reports Deutsche Bank is considering buying back billions of dollars worth of its bonds. U.S. equity futures also pointed to a higher open.
Popular barometers indicate recessionary risks are rising, in part explaining the underperformance of financials, Zidle said. But he noted current labor market conditions and consumer trends do not historically lead to economic downturns.
"Underneath the surface there's a real strong argument to be make that we're seeing a trough here," he told CNBC's "Squawk Box."
Check out the companies making headlines after the bell Wednesday:
Shares of social media company Twitter sank after the bell Wednesday after a quarterly earnings report revealed a decline in active users on the platform.
The company reported fourth-quarter earnings of 16 cents per share on $710 million in revenue. Analysts had expected Twitter to report earnings of about 12 cents per share on $710 million in revenue, according to a consensus estimate from Thomson Reuters.
Amazon saw shares bounce after it announced a $5 billion share repurchase program. The buyback replaces a $2 billion buyback authorization from 2010 for the e-commerce company.
Aswath Damodaran, NYU professor at the Stern School of Business and a foremost expert on corporate valuation, joined CNBC Pro for an exclusive interview to demonstrate his approach to investing.
Among the many highlights during the conversation with CNBC's Mike Santoli, Damodaran explained the difference between trading and investing:
"If you're focusing on the pricing process, I call you a trader and I don't attach any negative connotation to that. I don't think of traders as being shallow people and investors as being deep people. There's nothing wrong with trading. ... My problem is with people who play the pricing game, but talk the value game. Many portfolio managers act like investors, but they behave like traders, and that to me is a problem."
Damodaran shared specific tips on how to value a company as well as his thoughts about Apple, a stock he correctly sold last summer before the shares plummeted.
You can watch the full video below, but you must be a CNBC Pro subscriber.
The lack of clarity on how to quantify an "uptick" in terms of the increased number of ESPN subscribers is hurting Disney stock, CNBC's Jim Cramer said Wednesday.
"We don't know what uptick means," said Cramer on "Squawk on the Street."
Operating income for the cable networks slid 5 percent to $1.2 billion "due to a decrease at ESPN," the company said. Still, Disney CEO Bob Iger told CNBC on Tuesday that subscriber growth has picked up at ESPN since the quarter ended.
"We've actually seen an uptick recently in ESPN subs. We did reference, in candor, in the August call, that we had seen some sub erosion, and that in fact was the case. But the last few months, in particular, have been encouraging," Iger said.
Disney reported adjusted quarterly profit of $1.63 per share compared with consensus estimates of $1.45. Revenue also beat estimates, thanks in part to the success of the latest "Star Wars" movie. However, shares were under pressure Wednesday on continued worries about declines in profit at ESPN and other Disney-owned channels.
"If they said listen [subscriber growth] is X, which is much better than you think, that could have helped, but we didn't get that," said Cramer.
Renowned fund managers who invested hundreds of millions of dollars in the troubled Greek banks are trapped in uncertainty caused by the political developments in Greece and global financial turmoil.
The bond market may be giving investors a bit too much confidence.
The yield curve, a measure of the difference between long- and short-term rates, is often looked to as a gauge of economic strength. The longer an investor holds a bond, the higher the annual yield tends to be, in order to compensate the investor for potential inflation and for the missed chance to build wealth elsewhere. For this reason, if long-term bond yields fall closer to those of short-term bonds, it can signal less fear about inflation (which often follows growth) and less optimism about other assets — thus reflecting deteriorating confidence in the economy.
Before the last three recessions, the yield curve on the U.S. 2-year Treasury note  and 10-year Treasury note inverted, turning negative ahead of the downturn. As the spread between the 2-year and 10-year tumbled on Monday, some investors may find comfort in the fact that the yield curve remains well above zero.
But Bank of America Merrill Lynch has pointed out one big problem with drawing too much confidence from that simple signal.
"Taken at face value, this may suggest recession odds are small. However, we argue this logic is flawed because the curve is structurally steep when the Fed Funds rate is close to zero. When adjusted for the proximity of rates to zero, the curve may already be inverted and therefore might signal a recession," Ruslan Bikbov of BofAML wrote in a Monday research note.
Read MoreThis group of stocks are in a free fall
In December, the Federal Reserve raised the federal funds rate for the first time in nearly a decade, hiking from a near-zero level to 25 to 50 basis points. But rates are still at very low levels, and the recent economic concerns have investors wondering whether the Fed will continue to raises rates this year.
As long as the fed funds rate stays below 1 percent, the yield curve is unlikely to invert even in a recession, simply because it would be almost impossible for long-term yields to fall below those extra-low levels, said Deustche Bank's Joseph LaVorgna. In January, the economist noted that one precedent to consider is Japan, which saw its yield curve flatten without inverting before each of its last four recessions.
'We believe there is a high probability that whenever the next US recession occurs, the 10s-fund curve is likely to remain positive, and perhaps significantly so, at least compared to past business cycles," LaVorgna wrote to clients at the end of January.
Read MoreBank investors have suffered two lost decades
The 10-year yield fell to a one-year low on Monday amid a sharp market sell-off and dash to safety. However, Larry McDonald of Societe Generale said the worst of the yield plunge may be over for now.
"For the near term, U.S. 10-years are overbought from a trading perspective," McDonald said Monday on CNBC's "Power Lunch." "If you are long interest rate-sensitive investments ... you want to take the money and run here."
The "Fast Money" traders delivered their final trades of the day.
Tim Seymour was a seller of Barrick Gold.
Steve Grasso was a buyer of the Utilities Select SPDR ETF.
Brian Kelly was a seller of First Republic Bank, a name with exposure to Silicon Valley.
Even though Disney shares fell in extended trading on earnings results, Guy Adami was a buyer. He predicted the stock could reverse course during Wednesday's trading.
As we work through the final peak week for fourth-quarter earnings, it's hard to describe the season as anything other than underwhelming, with many companies missing estimates on the top and bottom line as a number of macroeconomic concerns run rampant.
Unfortunately, some highly anticipated tech companies reporting this week will not be the ones to turn this season around. The Estimize community has grown increasingly bearish on Tesla, Zynga, TripAdvisor, Pandora and Groupon, ratcheting down earnings per share estimates by at least 15 percent for each since the third-quarter season. The Internet names on this list in particular, once touted for their tremendous growth potential, are now struggling due to stiff competition.
In the past few weeks, the market has turned on one of its most loved group of stocks — FANG, which is the acronym for Facebook, Amazon, Netflix and Google-parent Alphabet. It has been almost three years since Jim Cramer and his chartist Bob Lang first coined the term, and the stocks have all soared during that time.
However, FANG has lately been held within the vicious grip of the bear, and the whole group has been obliterated. So, will FANG continue to be crushed, or can it make a comeback?
To find out, Cramer turned to the very chartist who helped create the FANG acronym in the first place. Lang is a technician, founder and senior strategist for ExplosiveOptions.net and a colleague of Cramer's at RealMoney.com.
Lang pointed out that when stocks are in bear market mode, no stock is left untouched.
Jim Cramer likes to look at the market from all perspectives. That means listening to the fears of investors and interpreting what drastic valuations could mean for the future of stocks — not just what the charts like the VIX are indicating.
"Take, for example, some of the extreme valuations of the market. And when I say extreme, I am talking about genuinely out of control valuations," the "Mad Money" host said.
Cramer found some major disparities in the valuations of several stocks that were very intriguing and could be signaling a recession.
For instance, American Airlines, United Continental, General Motors and Ford all sell for five times 2016 earnings. They are all either near or about to hit lows.
In a terrible year for stocks, it's little surprise that the best-performing sector is the utilities. But is there a risk that these bond-like stocks are becoming overvalued?
On a price-to-earnings basis, the utilities have become richly valued indeed. Based on the popular comparison of utilities' share price with analysts' expectations of earnings over the next year, utilities have not just seen their valuations rise, but also now look more expensive than stocks as a whole.
"That definitely says people are placing really high value on these things," commented Erin Gibbs, equity chief investment officer at S&P Investment Advisory, in a "Trading Nation" segment Monday. But "we don't really see the value or the opportunity right now ... they're too rich."

Check out the companies making headlines after the bell Tuesday:
Shares of Disney fell in extended trade Tuesday despite reporting better-than-expected first-quarter earnings and revenues. The entertainment pioneer behind the latest "Star Wars" film reported earnings of $1.63 per share on revenue of $15.24 billion, excluding items. That was higher than the $1.45 per share on $14.75 billion forecast by analysts.
Though CEO Bob Iger told CNBC there's been an uptick in ESPN subscribers and an expansion to digital streaming within the company, a year-over-year decline in operating income across Disney's cable networks fueled investor worries.
Cloud computing company Akamai saw stocks pop after it reported earnings and revenue that beat analysts' expectations. The enterprise software company posted earnings of 72 cents per share on revenue of $579 million, excluding items, better than the 62 cents on $569 million expected by Wall Street.
Fed Chair Janet Yellen is scheduled to appear before Congress on Wednesday, but ahead of that the Street was talking about what she will say.
"She needs to walk a fairly fine line between not appearing like she's completely ignoring the turmoil in the markets, but at the same time also indicate that she still expects expansion," said Goldman Sachs' chief economist, Jan Hatzius, speaking about Yellen in an interview with CNBC.
He added that she needs to reassure the market that the Federal Open Market Committee still holds its December view.
Hatzius, a member of the economic advisory panel of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, recently cut down his forecast of one hike a quarter in 2016, to only three increases this year.
"We took out March basically because of the tightening in financial conditions. It seems unlikely that with all that volatility they would want to go in March," he told "Closing Bell."
"I think that they'll want to take some time to assess whether this is really telling you something different about the real economy."
There's no doubt that one of the biggest drivers of current market action is oil. The continued volatility in "black gold" has led to steep price declines in many of the stocks that rely on it, or products made from it. However, as bad as it's been for the energy sector, weakness in two other places in the markets is grabbing more attention ... technology and financials.
It may seem obvious to many, but it's worth repeating why these two parts of the stock market are so much more important than others. They represent the two biggest sectors in the large-cap S&P 500 index.
Utilities, what's wrong with this picture?
Utilities are the best performers of the year, one of only two sectors in positive territory. The Dow Utilities are up about 7 percent, while telecom is up roughly 5 percent.
The S&P 500, meanwhile is down about 9 percent.
Some electric utilities have seen double-digit gains on the year:
Chesapeake Utilities - 16 percent
Con Ed - 14 percent
Duke - 11 percent
Xcel - 10 percent
With Disney  scheduled to report earnings after the bell on Tuesday, some options traders seem to be bracing for bad news.
The options market is implying a 5.5 percent one-day move off of earnings, higher than the average move of 4.75 percent over the last four quarters. For the last 10 quarters, Disney shares have moved an average of 3.3 percent in one day.
In the most notable trade on Monday, one trader bought 1,000 of the Feb. 12 weekly 91.50-strike puts for $3.22, which breaks even if Disney shares fall below $86.78 by Friday.
"This trader is probably looking for a little protection on a long position into a potentially volatile day," Dan Nathan of RiskReversal.com said Monday on CNBC's "Fast Money."
Read MoreThe market is broken: Technician
The media giant's stock is down 13 percent year to date. Now, the stock is approaching a critical level of $90, points out Nathan. He says this level has acted as support over the past year.

However, the stock has already broken below a multiyear uptrend, he said, which may be an alarming sign for investors.

For the first time ever Japan's 10-year bond yield went negative, raising concern that loose central bank policies around the world have finally gone too far and leaving investors scratching their heads on how to trade such an unprecedented situation.
Japan becomes the first G-7 country whose 10-year debt went past zero, which means holders are actually paying the government for the privilege of lending it money. The U.S. 10-year Treasury yield followed in Japan's footsteps Tuesday, declining below 1.8 percent.
With no history book to refer to, how should investors play the global march to negative yields?
When the Dow Jones industrial average was down more than 400 points Monday afternoon, it was weighed down by a sell-off in Goldman Sachs stock before it partially rebounded.
Of course, the Dow is not the market — it's just 30 major stocks out of the thousands traded on American exchanges. Most of the time, those stocks move along with the rest of the market, but sometimes the structure of the index lets a few companies like Goldman Sachs swing the Dow up or down. At the same time, some of the companies in the Dow have almost no impact.
The index is calculated by simply adding up the stock prices of the constituents and dividing by the "Dow divisor" to adjust for stock splits over time. That means companies with higher prices (or less outstanding stock) have a greater influence over how the index moves, even if the cheaper companies are a bigger part of the market.
Stocks also must have a price change to cause a shift in the index, and some companies, like Chevron, Apple and Goldman Sachs, have had a bigger impact recently than their stock prices would suggest because of higher volatility. Here's how each company has moved the index relative to their average price weight since April.
The world's stock markets are in the red for the year amid a global equity rout. But what's behind it?
Despite well-known experts warning about the prospect of a U.S. or even global recession, there is little clear sign to that effect, raising questions as to why stocks are falling so fast.
CNBC takes a look at the leading suspects behind this year's roller-coaster ride for markets.
The acronym was as grating and inaccurate as it was cute and catchy: TINA. It stood for "There Is No Alternative," and sought to explain in four letters why so many investors kept putting money joylessly into stocks in recent years — supposedly because central banks had banished safe returns from the financial firmament with interest rates near nil.
With the ongoing broad liquidation across markets, including the six month downward chop in U.S. stocks, many are now bemoaning the supposed dearth of safe harbors rather than the lack of alternatives to stocks.
The truth is, though, that the roughing up of nearly all asset classes, aside from developed-market government debt, has created more return opportunities in low-risk investments than have existed in years.
A rather cowardly, conservative portfolio assembled today can easily yield close to 5 percent and allow its owner to sleep pretty well, even if fear continues to outrace greed for a while longer.
Look out below.
The S&P 500's recent 13 percent decline has investors aching to know when the selling will end. But the technician who called the downturn toward 1,800 says this is just the beginning. The S&P was at 1,855 on Tuesday.
"We are no longer in an uptrend. What we know is that our Ebola low was 1,820. We violated that low last Monday, and now we have a well-defined series of lows from which in principle, a bad break is often the conclusion," Cornerstone Macro's Carter Worth told CNBC's "Fast Money" traders on Monday. "The path is lower by my work."
Carter uses two technical measures to define two possible outcomes if the S&P continues to fall.
The first is by looking at the S&P's entire bull market run since the 1980s.
If the S&P 500 were to stay within the tight range it has traced in recent years, the next stop for the index would be 1,575.

After an awful start to 2016, the S&P 500 bank index is at the same level as in the fall of 1996.
Not that it hasn't been a rocky road: The banks doubled over the next 10 years, then crashed amid the financial crisis, before running right back to where they started. And bank investors did enjoy dividends over the years.
But especially compared to an S&P 500 that is up some 170 percent in the same time period, the abject lack of price performance is striking.

The "Fast Money" traders gave their final thoughts of the day.
Pete Najarian is a buyer of McDonald's (MCD)
Dan Nathan is a buyer of PayPal (PYPL)
Karen Finerman is a buyer of Weight Watchers (WTW)
Guy Adami is a buyer of Texas Instruments (TXN)
While the market on Monday was a total bloodbath, Jim Cramer doesn't want investors to forget that Friday was terrible, too. Friday's carnage all stemmed from the horrific forecasts of high growth technology stocks LinkedIn and Tableau Software, which caused anything related to mobile, social and cloud to go into a tailspin.
"The pin action from these two quarters was so alarming that I think it is very important for us to understand what went wrong here," the "Mad Money" host said.
LinkedIn is the social network for professionals that makes its money through advertisements, selling premium subscriptions to users, and helping recruiters find candidates for open jobs.
When Cramer only looked at its headline numbers from the last quarter, LinkedIn's results seemed pretty solid. But it was the guidance that was scary. Sales and earnings forecasts for 2016 were significantly lower than what Wall Street was expecting. This prompted the company to lose $11 billion in market capitalization in a single session.
So far, this year has brought weak earnings, issues of valuation and stress in the oil patch. But unless the Federal Reserve  provides clarity on where it stands with rate hikes this year, Jim Cramer said it is going to be very hard for the market to find a footing.
"When you drill down, the proximate cause of much of these problems comes back to the Federal Reserve and its compulsion to raise interest rates into a tumultuous environment," the "Mad Money" host said.
Janet Yellen is slated to speak on Wednesday, and that is when Cramer thinks investors will realize just how important the Fed is to this market.
Now is not the moment to get into the oil sector, according to one analyst.
"I think it's time to still stay away, I don't think it's time to get in yet," Brad Handler, managing director of equity research at Jefferies, told CNBC's "Power Lunch" on Monday.
Oil prices were down about 4 percent Monday after a Saudi-Venezuela meeting over the weekend showed few signs of an impending boost to prices.
Despite geopolitical events, Handler thinks that oil companies are currently reacting to credit constraints and agency rating pressures, and are struggling to manage dividends and balance sheets. While those factors are still in play, investors should stay away from the sector, he said.
Cullen/Frost Bankers Chairman and CEO Dick Evans said Monday his stress test model looks for a $28 per barrel bottom for oil, and a historically low level of $40 per barrel out to 2020.
Energy loans make up for over 15 percent of Cullen/Frost's total loan portfolio, and 9.8 percent of them are now considered problem credit. That's up around 7 percent from the last quarter.
Read MoreConfusion and turmoil helps gold to shine
But Evans told CNBC's "Squawk Box" he's not worried.
"We've been working with our customers. They're not over-leveraged. If they were, they've already dealt with it. They've gone to the [credit] markets," he said. "We know the leverage is what kills a company."
U.S. oil prices were losing more than 3 percent and dipping under $30 per barrel in early trading Monday, after tanking 8.1 percent last week. A meeting between OPEC producers Saudi Arabia and Venezuela on Sunday ended with few signs that steps would be taken to cut output.
Read MoreCrude slips 3% below $30 on output uncertainty
"I thought $37 would take care of us [a year ago]. Now we're doing a stress test at $28," Evans said. While refusing to forecast oil prices, he did share what his model shows: "It won't go over $40 from a stress standpoint out to 2020."
While international producers may be reluctant to reduce output, Evans said, U.S. oil companies will continue to scale-back production, which he believes will help crude prices balance out somewhat.
Chesapeake Energy shares cratered in a matter of moments Monday on reports that the natural gas company had hired the services of restructuring attorneys, raising fears that debt-laden energy companies may finally succumb to pressure from falling oil and natural gas prices.
Using analytics tool Kensho, we searched for stocks with the highest correlation to Chesapeake. Investors may want to avoid these shares as well.
Chesapeake fell more than 5 percent in one day more than 130 times in the last decade. Here are the stocks that lost the most on those days, according to Kensho.
If you're disappointed with your portfolio's returns and are looking for other options, there are alternative investments. Literally.
So-called alternative investments are generally defined as anything that falls outside traditional stock and bond investments and whose role is to potentially zig when the broader markets zag. The goal is to mitigate portfolio volatility, hedge against downsides and boost portfolio returns in a way that is not tied directly to the stock market's performance.
The market has likely fallen behind the curve when it comes to anticipating the Federal Reserve's pace of interest rate hikes this year, Bank of America Merrill Lynch senior economist Michael Hanson said Monday.
That is particularly the case if the U.S. unemployment rate continues to fall, he said. On Friday, government data showed the unemployment rate ticked down from 5 percent to 4.9 percent.
At the same time, wage growth and hours worked picked up, raising the specter of a tighter labor market in which employers need to pay more to attract workers.
As chipmaker stocks sold off severely on Friday, one trader had some advice for those who may be looking for a bottom: Don't be a hero.
The S&P 500 semiconductor industry group has fallen almost 13 percent year to date. And according to Eddy Elfenbein of the Crossing Wall Street blog, investors shouldn't expect a turnaround anytime soon.
"It just doesn't look good for the semis right now. They're being squeezed on all sides," he said Friday on CNBC's "Power Lunch."
Elfenbein said chip stocks are facing pressure from faltering PC sales, a strong U.S. dollar and weak economies in Asia. Despite better-than-expected earnings reports from chipmakers such as NXP and Qorvo, Elfenbein said the outlook remains grim until those central conditions improve.
"Until that gets better, I think people ought to steer clear of the semiconductors," he said. "Don't be a hero, don't try to pick a bottom."
Read MoreBuy Apple—the bulls will win this 'war': Trader
Looking to the options market, Stacey Gilbert of Susquehanna said traders are continuing to bet on more pain for semiconductor companies.
"The sentiment continues to be pretty bearish here," Gilbert said Friday.
Specifically, Gilbert said she's seen at-the-money put buyers on shares of Texas Instruments and NVIDIA, which is more likely to indicate big traders placing outright bearish bets rather than merely hedging existing long positions.
Check out the companies making headlines after the bell Monday:
Media giant 21st Century Fox saw shares dip after the closing bell Monday when an earnings call with executives revealed challenges to the company's future growth.
The Murdoch-run production company behind Fox Sports and Searchlight films reported quarterly earnings that met analyst expectations and revenue that fell slightly short of estimates. But in a conference call, the company's leadership listed headwinds like foreign currency impacts and content production shortfalls that could dampen future earnings.
Corporate America, we have a problem.
The fourth quarter of 2015 looks to be the third straight quarter in which S&P 500  companies' profits fell versus the year prior. This would be the first time this has happened since 2009 (when profits fell in Q1, Q2 and Q3).
The official numbers aren't out yet, since not every S&P 500 company has reported results for the period. However, a combination of the results from the first 63 percent that have reported, and the expected results from those companies yet to report, yields a combined earnings decline of 3.8 percent, according to FactSet. (Note that this number should rise a bit as results are released, as the average company beats expectations.)
To be sure, the low-oil-plagued energy sector, and its 74 percent earnings decline, has been a big contributor to the overall drop. But it's worth noting that six of the ten S&P 500 sectors are seeing their earnings fall compared with fourth quarter of 2014.
Read MoreCiti: World economy seems trapped in 'death spiral'
Billionaire investor Mark Cuban, who recently purchased a large block of shares in Netflix, said on Friday that he had bought options to sell against his entire stake.
In October, Cuban made waves when he declared he was a buyer of the streaming company's stock, which at the time was on the decline. Amid a massive shake out in technology stocks overall, Netflix's stock is faring even worse now: Shares are off by nearly 28 percent since the start of the year.
Read MoreNetflix waffles as saturation point looms
Cuban took to Cyber Dust—his social media platform of choice where he frequently makes pronouncements about markets, politics and everything else—to let investors know that he was hedging his Netflix bet.
"For those of following my stock moves, I just bought puts against my entire Netflix position," Cuban posted on the site.
"I'm not selling. But I have no idea what this market will do," the outspoken mogul added. "Dust on!"
Blue chip and technology shares took yet another walloping on Friday, with the Nasdaq swooning by 3 percent after U.S. jobs data fell short of market expectations. Anxiety over the Federal Reserve's next steps remains acute, as questions swirl about the health of the global economy.
Hasbro reported its biggest jump in quarterly revenue in nearly five years, beating analysts' estimates by a wide margin, driven by demand for toys based on the "Star Wars: The Force Awakens" and "Jurassic World" movies.
Revenue from toys targeted at boys, which include action figures based on the two blockbuster films released last year, surged 35 percent to $569.8 million in the fourth quarter.
Industry-wide sales of Star Wars-licensed merchandise totaled about $700 million in the United States in 2015, according to retail research firm NPD Group.
FANG stocks are losing their bite.
In the last three months, shares of the once high-flying group of technology names — Facebook, Amazon, Netflix and Alphabet (the parent company of Google) — have fallen a respective 7, 25, 22 and 4 percent. The move has come as tech shares overall have taken the biggest brunt of the recent bout in volatility, although Alphabet has recently been locked in a horse race with tech giant Apple to be the world's most valuable company.
The bloodbath in technology stocks is best captured in the decline of the Russell 3000 Index, which has lost more than $514 billion since the start of 2016, S&P Capital IQ data showed last week.
According to one trader, there's even more pain in store for one of these names over the next few months.
"Amazon was one of the best-performing stocks in 2015 but it's significantly underperforming in 2016," Todd Gordon told CNBC's "Trading Nation" last week. The e-commerce giant's shares are down 25 percent since the start of the year and the S&P 500 has fallen around 8 percent. "We have Amazon making new year-to-date lows while the S&P 500 pulls back, but is well off of its early 2016 low."
Read More Tech is flashing buy sign: Technician
While many on Wall Street expect the U.S. dollar to rally even more in 2016, one strategist believes the opposite will occur and drive multinational stocks to outperform.
"The notion that the U.S. dollar (USD) will continue to appreciate is a widely held consensus view, based on sound economic theory — interest rate differentials suggest higher rate currency appreciates," Fundstrat's Thomas Lee wrote in a note to clients Friday.
He added, "However, there are several reasons to believe this is not enough to sustain USD gains and the USD could be flatter than market expectations in 2016 (and even outright decline)."
The dollar rallied 20 percent in 2015 from early 2014 levels. History shows four out of the last five times a major move like this happened, the currency tended to fall the next year with declines of 10 to 40 percent, according to Fundstrat.
The dollar's rally in 2015 was a headwind and reduced S&P 500 net income by $82 billion, Lee said. Any weakness in the domestic currency this year will boost earnings and sales for companies with large international exposure.
As a result, Fundstrat forecasts 2016 S&P 500 earnings per share of $127, above the Wall Street consensus of $123.
Here are 10 multinational stocks Fundstrat recommended to take advantage of the opportunity.
Apollo Education on Monday said it has agreed to be taken private by a group a investors in a deal valued at about $1.1 billion.
The investors include The Vistria Group, funds affiliated with Apollo Global Management, and Najafi Cos. for $9.50 per share in cash for both Class A and B shares. The offer price is a 36.7 percent premium to Apollo Education's Friday's close.
The deal is expected to be complete by August 2016.
High-flying growth stocks were crushed on Friday, which is why Jim Cramer decided to highlight the high-growth company Under Armour.
Under Armour is the innovative apparel company that reported a strong quarter last week. This was good news for the stock, as it had been slammed, along with the rest of the retail cohort for the past few months.
The news of the quarter sent the stock flying to $84 from $68 in a single session, though it pulled back to $76 on Friday.
"I think you need to view this decline as an opportunity to buy a high-quality stock into weakness," the "Mad Money" host said.
Jim Cramer discovered a curious disconnect with the auto industry and wondered if it could be a sign of an impending recession.
For months, the stocks of automakers have been crushed, even as car sales have reached record levels. Cramer thinks this could be due to investor fears that the industry could be peaking in the United States.
To gain further insight, he spoke with Ford Motor Company CEO Mark Fields. Ford just reported a very strong quarter, but the stock is down 18 percent for the year.
Private equity investor Lynn Tilton is stepping down as collateral manager of all her credit funds, totaling more than $2 billion, after years of litigation with New York bond insurer MBIA.
Tilton will temporarily remain in charge of three credit funds, sequentially named "Zohar," until investors in those funds select a collateral manager. Tilton is not relinquishing her position as CEO of Patriarch Partners, the private equity firm she controls and in which all of the Zohar funds are heavily invested.
It also means that Tilton is withdrawing the bankruptcy filing for Zohar I, the first credit fund that she raised to support her private equity operations. Together, the funds assets total about $2.5 billion.
Tech investor Paul Meeks sold out of three of his top picks at the beginning of the year in favor of large-cap momentum stocks he believes will continue to outperform.
On Friday, Meeks reshuffled his picks for the CNBC Squawk Box Model Portfolio, dumping shares of BlackRock, Micron Technology and financial services company  Bofi. Instead, he increased his position in names like Facebook on the belief the social-media giant will trend higher.
Below are the new stocks on his portfolio and the reasons why he thinks they are buying opportunities.
One of the hottest trades of the year is about to get even hotter.
Mining stocks have struck gold since the start of 2016, rallying more than 17 percent and shooting to their highest level since late October. The move has sparked a flurry of bullish activity this week.
"Gold and gold miners is where the options action was this week, … with the top two stocks being Freeport McMoRan and Newmont Mining," Mike Khouw told CNBC's "Fast Money" on Thursday. Freeport and Newmont were up a respective 16 and 27 percent in the last week, while the broader gold miners ETF, the GDX, has rallied 6 percent in the same period.
Friday's jobs report calmed fears of an impending recession and could cause the Federal Reserve to hike rates sooner than expected, Wells Capital Management's James Paulsen said.
"I think it very much puts the Fed back in play for March perhaps in terms of tightening," the chief investment strategist told CNBC's "Squawk on the Street" following the report's release.
The Bureau of Labor Statistics reported that 151,000 nonfarm jobs had been created in January, versus consensus expectation for 190,000.
Despite the lower headline number, Paulsen said the report was positive because unemployment ticked down to 4.9 percent and wages picked up at the fastest pace of the recovery.
CNBC "Halftime Report" trader Jon Najarian purchased shares of Harley-Davidson on Friday after spotting unusual options activity.
The company is the only major U.S.-based motorcycle manufacturer with $6 billion in annual sales.
In other moves, trader Joe Terranova trimmed his positions in Facebook, Range Resources, EOG Resources and Concho Resources from his model portfolio to take some profits. Terranova also sold his entire position in Palo Alto Networks.
Here's why Najarian bought Harley-Davidson.
Hiring slowed substantially in January, but the fact that more people were working for higher pay signals strength in the labor market and dashes a little of the recent pessimism about the economy.
Nonfarm payrolls rose by just 151,000, far short of the expected 190,000. The strong 292,000 gain in December was also reduced by 30,000 workers. But the unemployment rate fell to 4.9 percent, from 5 percent, as more people joined the work force. That shows up in the participation rate, which rose slightly to 62.7 form 62.6 percent. Another highlight of the report was the 0.5 percent increase in average hourly wages, or a 2.5 percent gain year over year.
"I think it's a good number despite the headline. I think it raises more questions than it answers. If it was a weak number, people would say it fits into the narrative of the last few weeks. I think this number changes the narrative," said Jim Caron, fixed income portfolio manager with Morgan Stanley Investment Management.
The American consumer is what ultimately determines whether or not a recession happens, and it's easy to be optimistic about the consumer, said David Rosenberg, chief economist and strategist at Gluskin Sheff, who had been a long-time bear.
"I'm confident that as feeble as the economy is right now, we are going to escape an actual downturn," Rosenberg told CNBC's "Worldwide Exchange," ahead of Friday morning's release of the government's January jobs report, which was a bit softer than expected on nonfarm job growth, compared to two previously strong months.
Read MoreUgh! Job growth is slowing now, too
While Wall Street is laser focused on earnings, he believes many are overlooking the positive picture employment is painting. "Corporate earnings, are only 15 percent of national income, when push comes to shove, there's nothing more important than employment because it supports 70 percent of the economy."
"When you look at the historical record, it takes a massive shock to cause the economy to go into an actual recession. There are pockets of the economy that are weak right now … manufacturing … the strong U.S. dollar, and [oil] inventories of course, that to me is temporary," Rosenberg said.
While the consumer may not appear to be firing on all cylinders, Rosenberg said to be patient. "The winners from the oil price decline, those gains accrue with a lag."
"So right now, we're building up this scenario that we're going to have a recession," he continued. "I'm not there."
Read MoreMy 'fishing indicator' optimistic: Jarden founder
Putting the consumer aside, Rosenberg pointed to other areas to watch out for when trying to determine whether a recession is coming, such as personal income, business sales and industrial production, which he says is already in some sort of recession.
The global economy seems trapped in a "death spiral" that could lead to further weakness in oil prices, recession and a serious equity bear market, Citi strategists have warned.
Some analysts — including those at Citi — have turned bearish on the world economy this year, following an equity rout in January and weaker economic data out of China and the U.S.
"The world appears to be trapped in a circular reference death spiral," Citi strategists led by Jonathan Stubbs said in a report on Thursday.
"Stronger U.S. dollar, weaker oil/commodity prices, weaker world trade/petrodollar liquidity, weaker EM (and global growth)...  and repeat. Ad infinitum, this would lead to Oilmageddon, a 'significant and synchronized' global recession and a proper modern-day equity bear market."
The January jobs report Friday missed expectations. How can investors trade the number using history as a guide?
The U.S. economy created 151,000 jobs in January versus the Wall Street consensus of 190,000. The data will now be a crucial factor in how the Federal Reserve guides the market's expectations on the future path of rate hikes.
Using hedge fund analytics tool Kensho, CNBC Pro screened for which securities do well when the jobs report beats or misses consensus by 5,000 over the past decade.
Here is what we found.
After three tough months for Apple, the tech giant is finally finding a bottom, according to one trader.
Apple shares are down more than 20 percent since November due to concerns about slowing iPhone sales and a difficult economic environment in China. But that selling makes this the ideal time to make a bullish play on the stock, according to Andrew Keene of AlphaShark.
Keene believes that new products will give Apple a much-needed boost. Keene also noted that the company is still holding plenty of cash.
"In the short term, we might get some volatility, ... [but] it is starting to consolidate here," Keene said Thursday on CNBC's "Trading Nation." "This is a tug of war between the bulls and the bears to see who wins."
And Keene says the bulls now have the edge.
Read MoreWhy traders are betting on a big bounce for the metals
"By 2017, I think Apple can march its way back to up to the highs, just like Facebook did, up to that $115 level," he said.
To make a bullish trade, Keene is buying the January 2017 105-strike call and selling the January 115-strike call for a total cost of $2.50 per share, which is an options strategy known as a "bull call spread." Keene sees maximum profits if Apple rises to $115 by January expiration, but the trade is profitable if Apple shares rise to $107.50 by that time. Below that level, his losses are capped at the amount spent on the trade.
A jump to $107.50 would be a 12 percent move for Apple's stock, which traded around $96 on Friday morning.
Check out which companies are making headlines before the bell:
Tyson Foods — The poultry producer earned $1.15 per share for its latest quarter, well above estimates of 89 cents a share. It also raised its 2016 forecast and added 50 million shares to its stock buyback program.
Estee Lauder — The cosmetics maker beat estimates by 8 cents with quarterly profit of $1.19 per share, with revenue also beating forecasts. However, its fiscal 2016 forecast is below estimates, largely due to the negative impact of a stronger dollar.
Moody's — The credit rating agency reported profit of $1.09 per share, beating estimates by 4 cents a share, with revenue also above forecasts. However, the company's 2016 outlook falls below Street consensus, following what the company called "difficult" market conditions in 2015.
Coca-Cola — Susquehanna Financial upgraded the stock to "neutral" from "negative," based on limited downside and the potential for merger and acquisition activity in the years ahead.
JPMorgan Chase, Goldman Sachs — UBS upgraded the stocks of both banks to "buy" from "neutral," calling them early cycle plays in terms of eventual recovery from a slower economy.
Cameron International — The European Union cleared the acquisition of the equipment maker by Schlumberger, citing limited overlap in activities between Cameron and the oilfield services company.
Southwest Airlines  —The airline reported an 11.1 percent January increase in revenue passenger miles compared to a year earlier.
Weyerhaeuser — The forest products company matched estimates with adjusted quarterly profit of 24 cents per share, with revenue slightly above forecasts. Weyerhaeuser made optimistic comments about 2016 based on the anticipated completion of its merger with Plum Creek Timber and other strategic moves.
News Corp. — The media company missed estimates by a penny with adjusted quarterly profit of 20 cents per share. Revenue was essentially in line, but News Corp.'s overall results were hurt by shrinking ad revenue and a stronger dollar.
Lions Gate — Lions Gate missed estimates by 4 cents with adjusted quarterly profit of 45 cents per share, and the movie studio's revenue was well short of Street forecasts. The shortfall comes after the final "Hunger Games" movie did not do as well at the box office as expected.
LinkedIn — LinkedIn reported adjusted quarterly profit of 94 cents per share, 16 cents above estimates, and revenue also came in above projections. However, the business-oriented social network gave a weaker than expected forecast due to slower ad revenue growth, among other factors.
Symantec — Symantec came in 2 cents ahead of estimates with adjusted quarterly profit of 26 cents per share, and the security software maker's revenue also beat estimates. Separately, the company announced a $500 million investment from private equity firm Silver Lake Partners, a cut of its regular dividend in half, and a $4 per share special dividend.
Deckers Outdoor — Deckers reported quarterly profit of $4.78 per share, 3 cents above estimates, but revenue was well short of forecasts. The footwear maker — known for its UGG brand — also lowered guidance for the current quarter and announced a series of cost cutting moves.
Tableau Software — Tableau more than doubled analyst estimates with adjusted quarterly profit of 33 cents per share, compared to forecasts of 16 cents. The software company's revenue also beat forecasts, but the company unexpectedly cut its full-year guidance.
Ubiquiti Networks — Ubiquiti came in 7 cents ahead of estimates with adjusted quarterly profit of 58 cents per share, and revenue was also above street forecasts. The maker of wireless networking equipment also gave strong current quarter guidance, as wireless service providers increase their demand for Ubiquiti products.
Outerwall — Outerwall reported adjusted quarterly profit of $1.43 per share, swamping estimates of 64 cents, and revenue was also above forecasts. However, the parent of the Redbox DVD rental service gave full-year guidance substantially below analyst forecasts, due to an "accelerated decline" in DVD rentals.
Toyota — Toyota increased its full-year profit forecast, on better results in China and North America for the automaker.
ArcelorMittal — The company will raise $3 billion from a share issue to scale down its debt. The mining company has been suffering from the effects of declining commodity prices, and its stock has fallen 60 percent over the past year.
McGraw Hill Financial — McGraw Hill Financial plans to change its name to S&P Global, a move that the company's board has approved and that will be the subject of a shareholder vote at the annual meeting on April 27.
Apple, Amazon.com, Alphabet, Verizon — These are among companies bidding for streaming rights to the National Football League's Thursday night package, according to Variety.
The metals are getting more precious.
Gold and silver hit multimonth highs Thursday, as industrial metal copper rose to the highest level since the beginning of the year. This as the dollar continued to lose value against other major currencies.
Notably, it is a move that is strongly counter to the trend seen over the past few years, whereby metals prices have fallen mightily as the dollar has soared.
"We're seeing a massive short-covering rally right now, that's all it is," commented David Seaburg, head of equity sales trading at Cowen and Co., in a Thursday "Trading Nation" interview.
Read MoreThe surprising new case for gold
"You're going to have an opportunity here, maybe for the next month or two, to make some money here near term on the upside" for metals, and to the downside for the dollar.
Still, Seaburg warned that given the macroeconomic environment, "it is a structural short still; you lay them back out, they're going to go a lot lower."
However, Larry McDonald of Societe Generale sees the same trade as potentially having more room to run.
It is because the market is starting to price in less tightening from the Federal Reserve that "you're seeing a major reversal in gold miners and commodities," McDonald said Thursday on "Trading Nation." This because the dollar's rise has largely been driven by expectations the Fed would raise rates even as other central banks' policies were still in stimulus mode.
"We're probably in the mid-to-early innings of this game right now," the macro strategist said.
Jeff Saut, chief investment strategist at Raymond James, said Friday the stock market looks like it's searching for a bottom. Using a propitiatory forecasting model, he predicted it would happen next week, followed by a sharp rally. That model actually foresaw the 2015 summer swoon, but missed what he expected to be a "rip your face off" rally in late December.
The Federal Reserve will likely hike interest rates only once or twice this year, Saut said Friday on CNBC's "Squawk Box" just after the release of the government's January jobs report.
The U.S. economy created fewer-than-expected nonfarm payrolls of 151,000 last month. The unemployment rate dipped to 4.9 percent, the lowest since February 2008, compared with estimates for a 5 percent jobless rate.
Read More Ugh! Job growth is slowing now, too
The jobs report will be parsed by the Fed and market watchers alike to see whether the economy is strong enough to withstand another rate hike at some point. Central bankers raised rates for the first time in more than nine years in December, and signaled at the time four more increases in 2016. The terrible new year start has put that path into doubt in the minds of traders.
On CNBC Friday, Saut said all the earmarks are there to put in a floor, including "more Google searches for the term 'bear market' since March of 2009 and investment banks telling you to sell everything."
"The model is calling for a bottom some time next week, and a fairly sharp rally after that," he said, though he would not put a number on it. He did say stocks should be higher at the end of the year than they are now.
In making his optimistic case, Saut argued that when this earnings season is all said and done, it's actually going to be better than expected. He also said, excluding the oil patch, the U.S. economy looks pretty good, despite the doom and gloom sentiment that's prevailing in the markets.
Read MoreCramer Remix: How to conquer stock rotations
On Monday, Saut had told "Squawk Box" the "selling stampede" that led to the worst January for Wall Street since 2009 may have ended with the start of a two-day rally the previous week.
During this uneven week, the Dow Jones industrial average was coming off a two-session rally ahead of Friday's trading. But blue chips did drop sharply Wednesday.
In December, Saut forecast a "rip your face off-type rally" that failed to come to pass. He attributed that to the expiration of $1.2 trillion worth of options and futures that destroyed the market's rhythm.
Earlier last year, Saut accurately called a market bottom during August's sell-off.
Jim Cramer was shocked by the action on Clorox on Thursday. The company reported a solid earnings beat and raised full-year guidance for 2016, yet the stock was slammed hard, down almost 5 percent in a single session.
What the heck just happened to Clorox?
"I think largely it was because of a broad rotation out of consumer products stocks and into commodities," the "Mad Money" host said.
The "Fast Money" traders delivered their final trades of the day.
Steve Grasso was a buyer of Dupont if it goes above $60 a share.
Brian Kelly was a seller of the Market Vectors Gold Miners ETF.
Karen Finerman was a buyer of Alphabet at these levels.
Guy Adami was a buyer of Texas Instruments.
On Thursday, Yum Brands reported for the first time since it announced plans to spin off its massive Chinese business. And while Jim Cramer found the results somewhat mixed, he did start to see some signs of life from the company.
More importantly, Yum confirmed it has finally seen positive same-store sales in China, which is currently Yum's largest market.
Cramer spoke with Greg Creed, CEO of Yum Brands, to find out more about the quarter and where the company could be headed.
News Corp. reported mixed results Thursday, citing foreign currency fluctuations and lower print advertising revenue.
The global media company, which is controlled by Rupert Murdoch, posted fiscal second-quarter earnings of 20 cents per share on $2.16 billion in revenue.
Analysts had expected News Corp. to report earnings of about 21 cents a share on $2.13 billion in revenue, according to consensus estimates from Thomson Reuters.
"News Corp. is evolving rapidly into a more digital and increasingly global company with a diverse revenue mix that we believe will drive long-term growth in profits and shareholder returns," CEO Robert Thomson said in a statement.
Despite beating analyst estimates, News Corp.'s revenue fell for the fourth quarter in a row, hurt by a slump in its core news and information services business, which includes Dow Jones and The Wall Street Journal.
Americans are bored with the usual handbag options, but when they are buying, smaller is better.
On Coach's most recent earnings conference call, CEO Victor Luis told investors the "North American premium women's handbag and accessories market was essentially flat in the December quarter" and Michael Kors CEO John Idol took it a step further in his company's earnings call saying: "the global market for luxury handbags is approximately flat."
However, while the handbag category was flat in dollar sales, Kors unit sales rose by "very strong double digits" thanks to stronger selling of smaller, crossbody handbags and wallets, Idol said.
You can rely on feng shui for your Year of the Monkey trades—or you can use the data.
As Asia kicks off a new lunar year on Monday, we used Kensho to look for the best Chinese New Year trades over the past decade.
Read MoreHow to winterize your portfolio? Think Netflix and chill
US stocks have typically moved higher during the five-day-long holiday, when Chinese markets are closed. Volatility tends to fall, and the Nasdaq—currently in correction territory—tends to outperform.
Check out the companies making headlines after the bell Thursday:
Shares of Tableau Software plummeted after the bell Thursday despite posting better-than-expected earnings and revenue in the fourth quarter of 2015. The software company, which makes programs that quickly analyze, visualize and share information, warned it was unlikely to benefit from certain tax allowances it had expected. Shares of competitor Splunk also notched double-digit declines in extended trade.
Fellow technology company LinkedIn also saw a steep stock decline after giving first-quarter guidance that was lower than analysts had forecast. LinkedIn said it expects revenue of about $820 million and non-GAAP earnings of about 55 cents per share.
Start-up investors are feeling a little more hopeful after a rough year, as valuations shake out in Silicon Valley, according to research released Thursday.
Confidence among Bay Area venture capitalists hit 3.59 on a scale from 1 to 5 in the fourth quarter of 2015, the first uptick after three consecutive quarters of declines, the University of San Francisco said. Though confidence has rebounded from its recent trough, it's still below the 12-year average of 3.72, according to the survey of 30 venture capitalists.
Concerns about high valuations and public market volatility have eased as investors forgo hype and focus on business fundamentals, respondents told professor Mark Cannice, who oversees the survey. But as the buzz over so-called unicorns dies down, the rate of new investments may slow accordingly over the next six to 18 months, they said.
ConocoPhillips' announcement that it was cutting its dividend by two-thirds was a bit of a surprise, since it was the first major oil company to make the cut. It's also got investors investing in dividend paying ETFs scrambling to look at what's under the hood of their investments.
Look at dividend ETFs and you will notice a very wide disparity in terms of the energy exposure:
Dividend ETFs with highest Energy exposure:
This is a good example of the fact that ETFs are not all the same, even if they have the same theme.
Stocks are doing something rare on Thursday: Nothing.
With three hours left in the trading day, the S&P 500 is up a mere 0.1 percent. If the magnitude of the market's move does not rise, Thursday will be the S&P's third least-move-y day this year.
The beginning of 2016 has proven an emotional roller coaster for investors, albeit not a particularly fun one. The average move (whether to the upside or downside) for a session in 2016 is 1.18 percent. That compares to an average 0.94 percent move in the comparable time period in 2015, and 0.72 percent over the full year.
The relative quietude may be a good sign for stocks. One of the things the market will need in order to bottom is a decline in volatility, investment strategist Neil Azous of Rareview Macro said this week on CNBC's "Power Lunch."
Read More Beware this hurt and confused market: Strategist
Then again, it may be a bit premature to declare the gut-wrenching moves over and done with.
It's less likely the Federal Reserve will raise interest rates again next month, according to a growing number of economists. If they're right, it compounds the problems big banks on Wall Street are facing.
Most banks ended last year pricing in expectations the Fed would hike interest rates three or four times.
Banks including JPMorgan, Bank of America and Citigroup stand to make billions as the Fed increases interest rates. Collectively, the banks said rates being raised to 1 percent, or 100 basis points, over a 12-month timeframe equates to more than $9 billion in interest income, the revenue derived from lending.
Now, the idea that the Fed will raise rates to 0.5 percent in March has been discounted. Most banks' top economists say they're expecting two or three rate hikes in 2016, which means the banks could yet reap billions in interest income that has been sorely missed since the financial crisis. Still, it's not clear banks will get even half the interest rate increases they expected this year.
Goldman Sachs took the probability of a March interest rate hike off the table in a note from economists Jan Hatzius and Zach Pandl on Wednesday.
Top trader Joe Terranova bought more shares of energy stocks for his CNBC "Halftime Report" model portfolio as a play on the weakening U.S. dollar.
Terranova, whose 4 percent gains this year put him at the top of the competition, added to his holdings of EOG Resources, Concho Resources and Range Resources, which aid in the production of natural gas as well as oil.
Here's why:
Squeezed by falling oil prices, Russia is talking about privatizing its major companies to close its budget shortfall. Nigeria is seeking a World Bank loan to cover its $11 billion budget gap. Even Saudi Arabia has been drawing down reserves and discussing selling a stake in its national oil company Saudi Aramco.
There's no doubt the oil producing nations and energy companies are feeling the pain of a 75 percent drop in oil prices in the past 1½ years. Now their actions are being viewed as the early signs capitulation is coming.
Oil prices have been volatile for weeks but especially in recent sessions. West Texas Intermediate crude futures were slightly lower, just above $32 barrels Thursday. But oil moved several percent intraday, after rising 8 percent Wednesday and 5-plus percent moves lower Monday and Tuesday.
In the past week, a number of Russian oil officials have said they would talk to OPEC about a production deal, and the oil minister of cash-strapped Venezuela has been traveling from producing nation to producing nation, calling for a meeting between OPEC and non-OPEC countries. Saudi Arabia has said it would only cut back if all producers do, and Iran has said it will not cut back until it restores its exports
Less than two months after the Fed enacted its first rate hike in more than nine years, market talk already has turned to whether the central bank's future may not be more hikes, but rather negative rates.
Intensifying recession fears, volatile financial markets and moves toward negative rates by other central banks have triggered speculation over whether the Fed may have to reverse course on its tightening policy.
Negative rates in the U.S. would be a highly unusual move. However, several high-ranking Fed officials, including Chair Janet Yellen, Vice Chair Stanley Fischer and New York Fed President Bill Dudley all have indicated the move would be something they would have to examine should financial conditions tighten and threats to economic growth increase.
Read More Gross: 'Shades of 2007' as central banks flunk
"While not our baseline scenario, if the U.S. economy were to sufficiently weaken we believe the Fed could consider negative rates as a means to ease policy," Mark Cabana, rates strategist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch, said in a note to clients.
Cleveland Fed President Loretta Mester said Thursday she likely would not favor negative rates.
"As a policy maker, it's incumbent on me to look seriously at it. But I'm still a little reluctant to there," she said during a question-and-answer session in New York Thursday evening. "I think our financial system is quite complicated. I'm not sure what the effects will. I have a feeling it wouldn't be that effective."
Savings from lower gasoline prices have not boosted retail spending as much as investors would expect, CNBC's Jim Cramer said on Thursday.
"I didn't think [Kohl's] was as bad as it was doing because a lot of people feel, including me, that at a certain point lower gasoline should help," said Cramer on "Squawk on the Street." "This plus Ralph Lauren tells you that lower gasoline is still not a factor. It is spotty in retail."
Department store chain Kohl's, with the ticker symbol KSS, cut its full-year earnings estimate, citing weak sales during the holiday quarter and "significantly" lower gross margins.
The company's stock fell more than 17 percent at one point to below $42 in morning trading, pulling down shares of other retailers.
"Kohl's did not give you a kiss," added Cramer.
Sales at established stores rose 0.4 percent in its fourth quarter, Kohl's said, adding that sales were "very volatile" and "less than planned" due a slow start in November and weak demand for winter products in January.
Upscale retailer Ralph Lauren reported a bigger-than-expected decline in holiday-quarter established store sales on Thursday, while Macy's Inc. posted similar results in January, both blaming the warmer-than-usual quarter and a dearth of tourists.
"This was a shocker. I am just blown away by how bad Kohl's was this morning," said Cramer.
— Reuters contributed to this report.
After three more days of buying, Warren Buffett's Phillips 66 shopping spree is nearing a billion dollars for the year.
In a new filing, Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway reveals that on Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday of this week the company purchased another 1.7 million shares of the energy giant for almost $132 million.
Over 15 days of buying since Jan. 4, Berkshire has spent $964 million to add 12.5 million shares to its Phillips 66 stake.
Now that the first major oil company has slashed its dividend, what other energy companies could be planning to do so, and whose dividends are safe?
ConocoPhillips on Thursday cut its quarterly dividend from 74 cents per share to 25 cents per share.
"While we don't know how far commodity prices will fall, or the duration of the downturn, we believe it's prudent to plan for lower prices for a longer period of time," CEO Ryan Lance said in a statement. "The decision to reduce the dividend was a difficult one."
In some ways, Wall Street expected the news. ConocoPhillips' stock was one of the worst performers in the sector, falling over 40 percent in the past 12 months. But the magnitude of the cut was larger than expected and hints that even better performing names may be forced to cut their payouts in the coming months.
"I think dividend cuts still unnerve people, but stocks like ConocoPhillips arguably already discounted it. Occidental Petroleum won't slash. Everyone else is fair game," Brean Capital's Roberto Friedlander said in an email.
To figure out who is most at risk and who is not, Valuentum Securities, an independent investment research firm, created a proprietary "Dividend Cushion" ratio. It quantitatively measures a company's ability to cover its dividend obligations using such factors as free cash flow generation and cash on its balance sheet.
The firm's ratio data and analysis foreshadowed ConocoPhillips dividend cut. Here are the Dividend Cushion ratios for the other major oil and gas stocks and what the analyst says is the safest company.
It turns out investors probably should heed those national park signs warning hikers to "Beware of Bears."
In a 1966 Newsweek article, the eminent economist Paul Samuelson famously quipped that the stock market had predicted nine of the past five recessions. It's a remark that is often repeated to deride the powers of the stock market to predict the economy.
CNBC went back to see if Samuelson was right and, if so, does he remain right? As the gauge of the market, we looked at all the bear markets of the postwar era, using data compiled by the financial research firm Bespoke, where stocks fell 20 percent, stayed down for longer than a month and where there was no 20 percent rally.
Mohamed El-Erian, the chief economic adviser at Allianz SE,said on Thursday that with volatility rising, the markets effectively have served as front-runners to the Federal Reserve in tightening global financial conditions.
"I doubt we will see the four rate hikes signaled a few weeks ago by Fed officials,"El-Erian said. "Two hikes are likely, if not less."
William Dudley, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, said on Wednesday that financial conditions have tightened considerably in the weeks since the Fed raised rates. He added that policymakers will take that into consideration if the phenomenon persists. So far this year, the benchmark Standard & Poor's 500 Index is down 6.31 percent.
Morgan Stanley has downgraded its outlook for oil prices, expecting low prices to persist for longer than previously thought as the supply and demand imbalance looks set to continue for at least another two years.
The bank lowered its average 2016 Brent price forecast to $30 per barrel, down from $49 previously. Morgan Stanley now expects an average price of $40 per barrel in 2017 as oversupply persists, before climbing past $50 by the end the year to average $70 by 2018.
Amid the market volatility in 2016, gold futures prices are already up nearly 8 percent this year.
After posting three consecutive years of losses and falling to the lowest level in six years back in November, gold prices are once again on the rise as investors seek shelter from the global volatility in the commodity known for its safe haven appeal.
On Wednesday, bullion hit an intraday high of $1,146 per ounce, the highest level since October. What if prices keep rising over the next one month?
Using data from Kensho, a tool designed to quantify historical market events, CNBC Pro ran a study to find the stocks and ETFs that gained the most if the price of gold futures rises 5 percent or more in one month.
Venezuela, Nigeria, Russia and other countries that heavily rely on oil revenues are getting more desperate as crude prices languish, said Daniel Yergin, a leading expert international politics, energy and economics.
"This day of reckoning is here," he warned on Thursday.
But a production-cut deal among OPEC countries and the Russians appears unlikely in the near term, Yergin told CNBC's "Squawk Box."
He said the Gulf producers don't seem interested. "I was on a panel with the chairman of Saudi Aramco a couple weeks ago and he said we don't want to cut to make room for others," namely Iran, which re-entered the market after years of sanctions were lifted last month.
To cope with depressed oil prices, which could be exacerbated by new Iranian supply, there have been recent rumblings that Saudi Aramco, the state-owned oil giant, may sell at least part of its operations in an initial public offering.
Meanwhile, Russia is looking to sell stakes in some of the nation's largest companies to deal with a crippling recession, largely due to lower oil revenue, which according to Yergin makes up about half the budget.
"That's a bell that shows you that this day of reckoning is here, as countries try to figure and their budget[s], try to pull themselves out of what are turning into deep recessions," he said.
Jim Cramer had to give some credit to the markets on Wednesday. They finally started to make sense, and there was one move in particular with the price of oil that gave him a glimmer of hope.
And when the price of oil turned up on Wednesday, suddenly it took the averages with it, which is how the Dow Jones went from being down 193 points before the reversal and finished up 183 points.
"Something really profound happened today. The stocks of the companies that were most on the ropes in the oil patch … led the rally, and that's actually a major positive," the "Mad Money" host said.
Another stock that landed on Cramer's radar was Disney, which rose 2 percent on Wednesday. According to Cramer, it would not be a smart move to bet against both Disney and its CEO Bob Iger.
Read MoreCramer: Here's the golden price for oil
Long-time stock market bull Tom Lee said Thursday the U.S. won't go into recession over the new year financial turmoil.
But he argued: "Corrections and bear markets have the same feel, which is buying doesn't feel right. Selling feels good."
Lee, co-founder of boutique equity research firm Fundstrat Global Advisors, told CNBC's "Squawk Box" he understands why investors are "really leery and cautious," but he's keeping the faith.
"The market  have been terrible. But that doesn't mean this is how markets are going to behave two [or] three months from now," he said. "There are lots of reasons to expect markets to start to perform better."
Read MoreMark Grant: US recession looms—and here's why
Ahead of Thursday's trading, the stock market was poised for a weekly loss, picking up in February where last month left off. Wall Street logged its worst January since 2009.
"[But] one of the messages from earnings this season has been, companies don't see the same type of destruction that markets are feeling," Lee said, though he conceded that "investors are doubting what companies are saying."
Read MoreCramer: Don't be stupid—buy this stock
Credit Suisse on Thursday posted a pre-tax loss for last year after a challenging fourth quarter in which it took substantial charges and warned it expected markets to remain volatile throughout the remainder of 2016.
CEO Tidjane Thiam said only time – most likely a couple of quarters – would help to restore calm on the markets.
"The slowdown in China is by design," he told CNBC, as the country moves from an export-led economy to a consumption-led economy. It was a "difficult transition" for the country but the markets had got "extremely jittery", with shares suspended daily for "very spurious reasons".
Now, however, was a good time to buy banks, Thiam said, adding the "world would have to come to an end" before it proved risky.
After a brutal start to the year, professional investors find themselves in a miasma of confusion and loss — which could lead to even more dramatic moves in the sessions ahead. So contends Neil Azous, an investment strategist at Rareview Macro.
"The professional community is either very confused or impaired at the moment, and possibly both," Azous wrote in a Wednesday morning missive.
Investors are currently suffering "duress" on their profit-and-loss statements, Azous explained, with mutual funds seeing declines of 7 percent, and retail investors "down somewhere between 5 and 15 percent."
What's more, the pain is coming through multiple channels, many of which are difficult to fully understand. The Federal Reserve  is in tightening mode even as some think it should be cutting rates; crude oil's decline is being alternately blamed on oversupply and mere market positioning; China is devaluing its yuan amid slowing growth; and more central banks are pursuing negative interest rate policies.
Saira Malik, head of global active equity portfolio management for TIAA-CREF, believes the U.S. is not at risk of a recession. Instead, she's using the pullback in the market this year to get long a group of stocks she thinks will outperform in the months ahead.
"We aren't worried about a recession at the present time as we believe developed markets can continue to demonstrate low single-digit positive GDP growth," Malik told CNBC Pro.
Her investment thesis is based on cyclical stocks taking over from momentum names as the leaders in 2016. In her own words, the investor explains why she's making these names her top picks for the "Squawk Box" Platinum Portfolio.
One of the world's riskiest investments may be getting ready for some relief rallies.
Frontier markets, also known as pre-emerging markets, have seen significant pain in the past year. But according to some traders, the recent surge in oil may become a boon for those looking for a bounce in these exotic equity investments.
Crude rallied 8 percent Wednesday, even as oil inventories climbed to record highs. Technician Craig Johnson of Piper Jaffray said renewed strength in oil could drive the frontier markets ETF (FM) higher, in what he sees as "more of a trade than a longer-term investment."
"This index is still making a series of lower lows and lower highs, but it's going to be very correlated to what we see happening to the overall price of oil. To us it looks like there's a bit of a relief rally opportunity in oil," he said Wednesday on CNBC's "Trading Nation."
Because frontier markets are less established than emerging and developed markets, they usually come with higher risk and returns. The frontier markets ETF has fallen 24 percent in the past year.
Read More One sign that oil is losing its hold over markets
Within the ETF, the largest holdings include assets from countries such as Kuwait, Argentina and Nigeria.
Neil Azous of Rareview Macro said that low oil prices have created a buying opportunity within frontier markets. Over a long-term period, select markets within this group may provide healthy returns, he said.
"There's probably some type of sliver of allocation that makes sense for different investors, and you should seek out a specialist for that particular segment of the market," Azous said Wednesday on "Trading Nation." "If you have a six to 10 year time horizon, some of these frontier markets can be really wonderful opportunities."
Read MoreBeware this hurt and confused market: Strategist
Check out which companies are making headlines before the bell:
Starz — The movie channel operator was informed by Lions Gate that the movie studio intends to explore a "mutually beneficial" combination of the two companies.
Clorox — The household products maker reported quarterly profit of $1.14 per share, 9 cents above estimates, with revenue very slightly below forecasts. Clorox benefited from higher prices, but was also hurt by a stronger dollar. The company also raised its full-year earnings outlook.
ConocoPhillips — The oil giant reported a larger-than-expected loss, further lowered its 2016 capital spending, and slashed its quarterly dividend to 25 cents from 74 cents.
L Brands — The Victoria's Secret parent reported a 6 percent increase in fourth quarter same-store sales, raised its annual dividend by 20 percent to $2.40 per share, and declared a $2.00 per share special dividend.
Cigna — The health insurer beat estimates by 7 cents with adjusted quarterly profit of $1.87 per share, with revenue slightly above forecasts. The company, which is in the process of being acquired by Anthem, was helped by membership growth for its government-related health plans.
Dunkin' Brands — The doughnut store chain earned an adjusted 52 cents per share for its latest quarter, 2 cents above estimates, while revenue was above estimates as well. Dunkin' also increased its quarterly dividend by 13 percent to 30 cents per share.
Beazer Homes — The home builder reported an adjusted profit of 3 cents per share, compared to analyst forecasts for a 9 cents per share loss. Revenue was also well above estimates, on an increase in closings and higher average selling prices.
CBS — Sumner Redstone resigned as Executive Chairman, to be succeeded by CBS CEO Les Moonves. Redstone is also expected to be removed from his job as Executive Chairman of Viacom when that company's board meets today.
Delta Air Lines — Chief Executive Officer Richard Anderson will retire on May 2, and take the role of Executive Chairman. Delta President Ed Bastian will take over as CEO.
GoPro — The high definition camera maker lost an adjusted 8 cents per share for its latest quarter, compared with analyst estimates for a breakeven performance. It also cut its financial forecast and said it would cut product of some of its entry level cameras.
Apple — Apple was ordered to pay VirnetX Holding $625 million in a patent case. A jury ruled that Apple had willfully infringed VirnetX's internet security technology in its FaceTime and iMessage services.
Costco — Costco reported flat same-store sales for the month of January, with the U.S. showing a 1 percent increase for the warehouse retailer.
Yum Brands — Yum beat estimates by 2 cents with adjusted quarterly profit of 68 cents per share, although revenue came in slightly below forecasts. The restaurant chain did report a greater-than-expected 6 percent rise in same-store sales for its latest quarter.
Buffalo Wild Wings — Buffalo Wild Wings fell 16 cents short of estimates with quarterly profit of $1.32 per share, with revenue missing as well. The restaurant chain also gave lower than expected earnings guidance for 2016.
Allstate — Allstate reported quarterly profit of $1.60 per share, beating estimates of $1.34. The insurer's revenue was roughly in line with estimates, although profits were down from a year earlier due to higher catastrophe and auto-related claims.
MetLife — MetLife missed estimates by 13 cents with adjusted quarterly profit of $1.23 per share, while revenue came in below estimates as well. The insurer said its results were impacted by lower investment income and a stronger US dollar.
Take-Two Interactive — The company reported adjusted quarterly profit of 89 cents per share, well above consensus estimates of 50 cents. The video game maker's revenue was also well above analyst forecasts as demand for its venerable "Grand Theft Auto" franchise remained strong.
Harley-Davidson — Harley raised its quarterly dividend by 12.9 percent to 35 cents per share, and the motorcycle maker also approved a 20 million share stock buyback.
AstraZeneca — The drug maker said its financial performance would be weaker this year, as cheaper generic rivals hurt the performance of its Crestor cholesterol drug.
Credit Suisse — The bank posted its first full-year loss since 2008, stemming from weakness in its investment banking business.
Cisco Systems — Cisco bought privately held Jasper Technologies for $1.4 billion, its biggest takeover deal since 2013. Jasper is an "internet of things" company, with its technology connecting various devices to the internet.
A global recession looms because of depressed oil prices and an economic slowdown in China, market watcher Mark Grant said Thursday. The U.S. won't be spared because of the interconnectivity of the world economy, he said.
Grant, managing director and chief fixed income strategist at Hilltop Securities, told CNBC's "Squawk Box" his reading of China indicates its economy is growing at only about 2 percent, far lower than the official numbers of 6.9 percent for 2015, which were a 25-year low.
"You're also seeing this in terms of demand and supply for commodities," he said, warning especially about the growing glut and slowing demand growth for crude. "I think oil is headed down," perhaps into a per-barrel range in $20s, he added.
West Texas Intermediate crude, the U.S. benchmark, was steady early Thursday, a day after adding 8 percent. Depressed prices were held in check by a weaker dollar and talk of international oil producers potentially meeting to discuss output cuts.
But Grant said any hope that Russia and OPEC can agree on anything is a "pipe dream" and a "fantasy." Even if they added, he added, it would not make much difference. "America has the capacity because of the change in technology with fracking … to produce much more oil than any nation on Earth."
U.S. stocks logged their worst January since 2009 and started February under pressure, raising questions about the market turmoil might cause a recession.
Jim Cramer had to give some credit to the markets on Wednesday. They finally started to make sense, and there was one move in particular with the price of oil that gave him a glimmer of hope.
When the price of oil turned up, suddenly it took the averages with it, which is how the Dow Jones went from being down 193 points before the reversal and finished up 183 points.
"Something really profound happened today. The stocks of the companies that were most on the ropes in the oil patch … led the rally, and that's actually a major positive," the "Mad Money" host said.
With the growing popularity of wearable devices, Fitbit came public last year in a widely anticipated public offering.
However, since that time Fitbit's stock has plunged a dramatic 45 percent year to date.
Jim Cramer spoke with the company's chairman and CEO James Park, to find out what could be driving the decline and what investors can expect from the company going forward.
Viacom and CBS shares jumped Wednesday on leadership changes, and some "Fast Money" traders believe the stocks could have more room to climb.
CBS named CEO Leslie Moonves its chairman, replacing the 92-year-old Sumner Redstone. Viacom's board could follow suit and replace Redstone as chairman on Thursday, sources told CNBC.
Viacom and CBS shares rose 10 and 4 percent, respectively, in after-hours trading. Both stocks have lagged peers in the media space like Walt Disney in the last year.
"I think there may be some room for them to close the gap," said trader Tim Seymour.
Oil and the dollar could be keys to Thursday's trading, after the dynamic duo sent markets on a wild ride Wednesday.
Falling crude prices and the rising dollar have been poison to the stock market with both sapping corporate profits. But on Wednesday, stocks moved higher as oil surged, while the dollar slumped amid speculation the Fed would hold off on further rate hikes.
"We're all watching each other. I hate these kinds of markets when you're watching another market to determine what to do," said Arthur Bass, managing director at COEX Partners. "I hate these kinds of markets. You get them periodically, and at some point they'll decouple."
Jim Cramer has always considered Salesforce.com to be the king of cloud. So while "Mad Money" is in San Francisco this week, he decided to check in with the CEO of the enterprise software company.
Salesforce last reported in November and totally blew away the numbers. However, since the beginning of the year, the stock has fallen 16 percent. Salesforce's chairman and CEO Marc Benioff is driving the company to be the fastest enterprise software company to reach $10 billion.
"The key to growth, and the key to hitting these extraordinary numbers—and no one has grown as fast as we have in enterprise software—is two things: one is extraordinary customer success…And two is incredible innovation," Benioff said.
Amazon, Alphabet, Facebook and Netflix — the so-called FANG stocks — were once lumped in portfolios, paragons of the technology world. But lately they've diverged.
With Netflix and Amazon both down more than 20 percent so far this year, does the magical union still hold true for investors?
While optimists see the current dip as a buying opportunity, Wall Street pessimists say these companies might have flown too close to the sun.
Take Amazon, for example. Although the e-commerce giant couldn't handle demand for "fulfilled by Amazon" products during the holidays, it could eventually scale to meet the demand from new Amazon Prime customers, said Jason Helfstein, Internet analyst at Oppenheimer & Co.
The banking crisis: is there one?
For the past three days, I've been trying to get my hands around this supposed "banking crisis," particularly in Europe.
I get why there is concern in Europe, but I don't at all get the selloff in U.S. banks.
You didn't know there was a banking crisis?  Everyone seems to think there is some kind of crisis because the stocks—particularly the European bank stocks—seem to be telling us something is wrong:
European banks YTD
Deutsche Bank   down 34.6%
Societe General  down 25.8%
BNP Paribas        down 24.3%
Banco Santander  down 24.0%
UBS                      down 20.9%
Yikes!  This is after one month.  The concerns about Europe fall into several buckets:
1) ongoing restructuring and litigation charges.
2) Flattening yield curve/negative rates.
3) slower European growth.
4) Asset management slowdown. Asset management has suffered because wealthier clients aren't investing.
5) Book value issues:  European banks did not take the big writedowns that U.S. banks took; there's concern there may be more asset writedowns that would cause book values to decline.
6) Capital positions. While the U.S. banks were out raising capital and selling new shares in 2008-2009, the European banks didn't. The result: U.S. banks don't need to raise capital, but European banks probably do.
I get this. What I don't get is what's going on with U.S. banks:
U.S. banks YTD
Fifth Third             down 24.8%
Bank of America  down 24.3%
Zions                     down 21.9%
Key                        down 19.7%
JP Morgan            down  14.8%
Yikes again!  Even the regionals are getting hit.
Here's the arguments against U.S. banks:
1) international exposure. If you're afraid of the Chinese bogeyman, fine. But regionals who lend to farmers are down too. This might mean something to Citigroup, but your average regional bank does not have international exposure.
2) falling yields.  Concerned about lower rates? It's certainly an issue, but consider this:  the average U.S. bank has 40 percent or more of its revenues from fees, not rates.
3) we don't believe the book value. Bank stock investors cannot believe that big banks are trading at a significant discount to their tangible book value:
Tangible book value
Goldman Sachs       0.93
Regions Financial   0.89
Bank of America      0.82
ZIons                       0.75
Citigroup                  0.66
Below book value, every one of them. This is pretty rare: outside of 2008, these stocks have not traded below tangible book value.
Don't believe the book value? Here's the problem with that argument: the quality of the book is far better than it was 10 years ago. Bank loans have a 3 to 7 year duration. After 2009, you know what happened if you're a bank:  the government moved into your office. The scrutiny is intense. You're lucky if you get a 60 percent loan-to-value ratio.
Bottom line: the Fed knows every loan the banks have, and they check them twice a year.
4) oil loans.  This is the big bogeyman, but the stocks are trading like everything is worthless and everyone is going out of business.
Let's take an example. To eliminate international exposure, let's stick with a regional bank.  How about Zions?  It's a plain-vanilla Utah bank. Straight-ahead commercial and retail banking, along with mortgage loans.
No international exposure. No trading exposure.
They have roughly $40 billion in loans, of which almost $3 billion (7 percent) is in energy. Tangible book value is $5.7 billion.  Market cap is $4.3 billion.The difference is $1.4 billion.
If there was some kind of loss, the pre-tax hit would be $2 billion.  But the energy portfolio is $3 billion, so the market seems to be assuming that ZION could have a complete loss of almost 70% of the energy portfolio.  And bear in mind they already have a 5% loan loss reserve against the energy portfolio, so really the market is assuming 75 percent losses.
You also should know that the recovery rates on failed energy assets are very high.  The banks have a lot of protection.
Paul Miller, a bank analyst with FBR, was on our air earlier with the same point:  the assumption is that the entire energy portfolio of these banks are worthless, which makes no sense at all.
But no one wants to listen.  No one wants anything with energy exposure.
The short answer is, it doesn't make sense, and that's why bank stock traders—and analysts—are puzzled.
And so we have conspiracy theories.  "It's the quants."  "It's the machines."  "It's the momentum guys."
I have no doubt that shorts—in whatever form—are pushing these stocks as far as they can go, into irrational territory.  I am quite sure that "the machines" benefit during times of volatility, because pricing is wider and they benefit when that happens.
But let's limit the hysterical rhetoric.  What is happening now is that guys who were long these stocks (hedge fund types, generalists) are being forced to sell simply to  reduce exposure.  It's forced selling.  These guys know that the fundamentals are good:  the consumer is stronger, the books are stronger—but they can only take so much downside before they have to reduce risk.
Let's hope that some sanity returns soon.
Yahoo Chief Executive Marissa Mayer is keeping all of her bad options open. The floundering internet firm topped a whopping $4.5 billion write down in the fourth quarter with plans to pursue "strategic proposals" for its core search and advertising operations. The company also said it will cut 15 percent of its workforce, jettison products like some digital magazines and maybe spin off the core assets from its stake in Chinese e-commerce giant Alibaba. Selling those assets is still the best of a bunch of lousy choices.
It's fitting that Yahoo released the news on Groundhog Day, the annual U.S. occasion for seeing whether an enormous rodent will predict a long winter. A movie with that title employs the plot device of actor Bill Murray reliving the same day in a never-ending loop.
Investors gonna invest, invest, invest, invest, invest.
Glu Mobile, a global developer of free-to-play games for smartphone and tablet devices, revealed on Wednesday that it will producing a game featuring pop sensation Taylor Swift, due out later this year. The company previously created celebrity games featuring Kim Kardashian and Katy Perry.
Shares in the company spiked more than 26 percent after hours following the announcement.
Oil is set to hit a bottom according Rob Thummel of Tortoise Capital Advisors.
The portfolio manager whose firm is focused on investing in the energy sector thinks that although this commodity cycle has been "painful" and thus far the second largest in duration since the 1980s, it will soon scrape the bottom of the barrel.
"Here's how you get there: You see U.S. production start to fall, and you see demand continue to remain strong," Thummel said Wednesday on CNBC's "Power Lunch." He expects prices to move higher within the next five to 10 years with long-term prices ranging between $60 and $80 a barrel.
Worries about oversupply continue to weigh on markets, not to mention slowing demand in China. Data on Tuesday showed that U.S. gasoline and crude inventories rose above expectations, just as more oil was being introduced into the market.
Thummel, whose firm has $13 billion of assets under management, which is down significantly during this crude glut, said that "the first quarter we always see raises in inventory … but as you move into the summer and into the spring you start to see driving and [oil] demand [starting] to pick up."
Oil settled up 8 percent on Wednesday as the market shrugged off the data from the day before.
The slogan goes, "America runs on Dunkin'." But these days, caffeine behemoth Starbucks and a resurgent McDonald's appear to be winning the coffee race.
In an interview with CNBC on Wednesday, Kyle Bass shared his starkly bearish views on China's banking system and the country's currency.
The yuan will be devalued 30 to 40 percent due to loan losses in China's banking sector, according to the hedge fund manager.
Bass is founder and managing partner of Hayman Capital Management. He is known for profiting and betting against subprime mortgages during the U.S. financial crisis in 2008.
Can't see the video? Here's how to become a CNBC Pro subscriber.
Is crude oil becoming old news? A particular currency seems to be suggesting so, says one strategist.
On Tuesday, Boris Schlossberg of BK Asset Management noted that the correlation between the Canadian dollar and crude oil has been weakening, a sign that oil's influence over markets may be coming to an end.
Since oil accounts for a major part of Canada's exports, the country's currency tends to trade in tandem with the price of crude oil. Earlier this year, Schlossberg declared that everything from stocks to currencies were taking cues from crude oil's wild swings.
Read MoreOil is driving everything right now: Strategist
However, now the market's obsession with oil is tiring, he said.
"For the past month and a half, it's been a one-way road trip between oil and the Canadian dollar," Schlossberg said on CNBC's "Trading Nation." "Maybe now the markets are decoupling with this correlation that was almost one to one with oil, and starting to look for other ideas."
On Wednesday, crude oil surged as much as 6 percent even as reported inventories increased and U.S. stocks fell. The commodity has fallen 5 percent this month as the Canadian dollar has risen 1 percent against the U.S. dollar.
"Unless oil starts to make fresh lows, it could be yesterday's story as far as capital markets go," Schlossberg said.
According to Phillip Streible of RJO Futures, the relative strength in the currency, sometimes referred to as the "loonie," is more attributable to the rising price of gold, as another significant commodity export in Canada.
Gold has gained more than 7 percent this year in the midst of a volatile stock market, prompting some investors to declare that the flight to safety trade is back on. Other factors noted in gold's rise include a weakening U.S. dollar and low interest rates around the world.
Read More The surprising new case for gold
"If you look at gold prices, they've come up quite a bit, and I think that that provided some stabilization in the Canadian dollar despite oil's decline," Streible said Tuesday on "Trading Nation."
Economic data should theoretically drive markets. But in 2016, the opposite has been true and it could be a troubling cycle for investors, said Matthew Beesley, portfolio manager and head of global equities at Henderson Global Investors.
"Go back a month or so, economics were relatively decent across most geographies," Beesley told CNBC's "Worldwide Exchange" on Wednesday. "But now markets are leading economics and driving economic decisions that are going to have very meaningful impacts [that] we fear on the corporate world in 2016."
Read MoreBill Miller: I lost 20%, but still bullish
Despite relatively strong economic data with the exception of China, global markets have suffered major sell-offs this year. In the past month, the S&P 500 and the Dow Jones industrial average were each down about 7 percent as of Tuesday's close.
Stocks in the euro zone, as measured by the Stoxx 600 index have fallen about 10 percent in the past month, and executives have been forced to adjust accordingly.
Beesley, who manages roughly $2 billion for Henderson, noted companies reining in investment spending, worrying about their top lines and providing cautious guidance for 2016.
Read MoreGoldman's Blankfein: US economy not off rails
"What is going on in the banking system globally, not just in U.S. banks, is very worrying indeed," he added. "If you were to get a very sharp move up in that sector, I think there would be a lot of investor pain there, a lot of short investors looking to cover those shorts."
But overall, Beesley's global equities team is steering clients toward Europe, mainly for valuations.
"In general U.S. valuations are still pricing in more growth in the broader sense relative to European valuations,"  Beesley said, though he's still invested in Facebook and Google-parent Alphabet, despite high valuations.
Read MoreStop thinking short term, CEOs: BlackRock's Fink
Beesley said he also sees an opportunity in Asia markets, given negative investor perceptions and low valuations there.
"Asia, emerging markets and by extension Japan have been very much caught up in the maelstrom of this negative feedback loop that appears to be building across equity markets globally," he said. "Looking for opportunity, that's certainly where we as a team are going to be refocusing our efforts."
Traders now see less than a 30 percent chance of even 1 rate hike at any Federal Reserve meeting this year, according to data from the CME Group.
The CME's FedWatch tool showed markets assigning no higher than a 28 percent chance of a hike at any meeting this year, and just a 31 percent chance of a hike at 2017's first meeting.
When it raised interest rates in December 2015, the Fed's 2016 projections suggested central bankers were anticipating four rate hikes this year.
But New York Fed president Bill Dudley warned Wednesday that financial conditions have tightened since December, which would weigh on the decisionmaking of the Federal Open Market Committee.
This is breaking news. Check back for updates.
BlackRock chief Larry Fink said Wednesday he wants businesses to develop a better barometer for how they are planning and executing their strategies.
Fink on Monday released a letter to the CEOs of S&P 500-listed companies and major European corporations cautioning them against taking a short-term view of their business that focuses on quarterly earnings reports.
He proposed eliminating the practice of offering quarterly guidance and said chief executives and boards should provide a strategic framework for long-term value creation.
"The main point of the letter is please provide us with a strategic plan of how you think your company is going to evolve," he told CNBC's "Squawk Box." "Tell us about your ecosystem. Let us understand what your thinking is."
"I don't want to have anything that's proprietary, or anything that will harm you as related to competitive issues, but you can give us a guidepost as to how you're building a business plan for your business and where you're taking it," he added.
Yields on the U.S. 10-year Treasury note declined sharply Wednesday after ISM service data showed signs of a weakening economy.
The U.S. service sector expanded at slower pace than expected in January suggesting this key area of the economy may be slowing, according to the Institute for Supply Management.
On the back of the disappointing data, the 10-year yield fell to a one-year low of 1.79 percent, causing the dollar to take a hit as well.
If the 10-year rate continues to collapse, what's the best way to trade it?
Using data from Kensho, a tool designed to quantify historical market events, CNBC Pro ran a study to find what happens when the 10-year yield declines significantly over a one-week period.
If this drop in yields keeps going into next week, history shows the stock market does not do well and neither do certain sectors of the market.
In an interview with CNBC Wednesday, Goldman Sachs' Lloyd Blankfein shared his views on the future direction of global equity markets and oil prices.
Blankfein has been the chairman  and chief executive officer of Goldman Sachs since 2006.
Can't see the video? Here's how to become a CNBC Pro subscriber.
With feelers in businesses from videos to autos, it may be no surprise that Alphabet, the holding company behind Google, managed to post better-than-expected fourth-quarter earnings. What surprised some is the main reason why.
"Revenue growth in Q4 underscored the strength of our businesses globally, with consolidated revenue growth accelerating meaningfully versus last year," said Ruth Porat, Alphabet's chief financial officer, on an investor conference call. "The primary driver was increased use of mobile search by consumers, benefiting from our ongoing efforts to enhance the efficacy of mobile search."
Not only are Google's sales still driven by its hallmark search function, but by mobile search — an area where Google was thought to be losing ground as consumers move from browsers to searching within apps.
So did Wall Street underestimate Alphabet?
Activist investor Starboard Value disclosed a stake of about 7 percent in Marvell Technology Group on Wednesday, saying the chipmaker's shares were "undervalued."
Marvell shares were up 4.6 percent at $9.07 in premarket trading. The company, which is embroiled in accounting and legal troubles, had lost nearly 40 percent of its value in 2015.
Starboard, run by Jeffrey Smith, wants Marvell to cut costs and exit its mobile-wireless business, according to a person familiar with the matter.
U.S. home improvement retailer Lowe's said it would buy Rona in a deal valued at C$3.2 billion ($2.28 billion) to enter Canada's Quebec province, where Rona is the market leader.
Lowe's will pay C$24 per share in cash for Rona's common shares, more than double the stock's closing on Tuesday. The deal also include a C$20 per share cash payment for Rona's preferred shares.
Lowe's Canada and Rona will create a retailer with 2015 pro-forma revenue of about C$5.6 billion, Lowe's said on Wednesday.
Lowe's said the deal, which will add to its earnings in the first year after the deal closes, would help increase revenue and operating profitability in Canada by more than C$1 billion.
Only 40 of Lowe's 1,850 stores in North America were located in Canada as of March. Rona, on the other hand, has 700 stores across Canada, according to its website.
The "Fast Money" traders delivered their final trades of the day.
Tim Seymour was a buyer of EEM.
Steve Grasso was a seller of XLE.
Pete Najarian was a buyer of GWG.
Guy Adami was a buyer of USB.
When the market is crushed like it was on Tuesday, Jim Cramer wants investors to start looking for high quality stocks that get cheaper as they go lower.
Adobe is the maker of traditional digital and print media software that has transformed itself in recent years into more of a cloud-based software-as-a-service player.
With the company sitting on a monster $4 billion cash hoard, Cramer spoke with Adobe CEO Shantanu Narayen to find out what could be in store for the future of the company.
If things feel familiar in the markets, it's because they are. Between repeating business cycles and the never-ending calendar of earnings announcements, it's easy to feel caught in a monotonous loop of economic stagnation and sinking oil prices.
For some major stocks, like Coca-Cola, PepsiCo and AT&T, Groundhog Day is often a reality. These stocks tend to repeat their performance day in and day out, more so than other companies, as examined since Groundhog Day in 2015.
Read MoreTo keep rising, stocks need to see this: Trader
Check out the companies making headlines after the bell Tuesday:
Shares of troubled technology giant Yahoo dropped after the bell when a slew of news accompanied its quarterly earnings report.
Yahoo on Tuesday announced the latest in a long-standing tug-of-war with a vocal group of core investors: It will now consider a reverse spinoff, or the sale of its assets aside from its stake in Chinese e-commerce giant Alibaba.
Yahoo also revealed cost-shaving measures such as a 15 percent workforce cut, the closure of five offices,and the sale of other assets. The company expects annual savings of about $400 million from the moves, it said. The company separately said Charles Schwab would leave its board.
CNBC "Halftime Report" trader Jon Najarian bought shares of a fast food restaurant chain on Tuesday, predicting a rally in the stock once earnings are released next week.
Based on investment bets in the options market, Najarian believes Wendy's earnings may come in ahead of expectations on Feb. 9.
In the past week, the company's stock is already up nearly 6 percent as the bulls look for upside on the name, Najarian said.
Here is where the options trader sees the fast money headed:
Jim Cramer knows a lot of investors wish they could go back in time and buy Alphabet, or Google, back when it traded at a much lower valuation.
"Guess what, you had the opportunity not all that long ago," the "Mad Money" host said.
In July 2015 Alphabet traded at just 17 times earnings, the same multiple as the average stock of the S&P 500, back when the stock was at $541. Since that time it has rallied 45 percent.
Investors aren't the only ones running for safety as the market tumbles and the economy wobbles.
Businesses, too, are indicating an unwillingness to take on risk as loan demand declined for the first time in about four years, according to the Federal Reserve's Senior Loan Officer Survey released this week.
Demand for commercial and industrial loans has plunged in 2016, with declines happening across business sizes. Large- and medium-sized businesses had an 11.1 percent decline, while demand from small businesses fell 12.7 percent.
Read MoreWhy 2016 keeps getting uglier
For large and medium businesses, the decline was the first since the fourth quarter of 2012 — demand was flat in the second quarter of 2015 — and tracking for the biggest three-month decline since the fourth quarter of 2011.
For months, Wall Street has presumed Hillary Clinton would win the Democratic party's nod and go on to win the presidency, but Monday's Iowa caucuses suggest the race could be tighter than expected.
Clinton on Monday barely edged out Sen. Bernie Sanders, with both close to 50 percent in the Iowa caucuses. Now she faces him in New Hampshire next week, a race the Vermont senator is expected to win with a regional advantage. So that makes the Feb. 27 faceoff in South Carolina very crucial for Clinton, who is expected to be stronger in the South.
"If the probability increases that Sanders wins the nomination then it increases the probability that the Republicans would have complete control of the government after the election," said Dan Clifton, head of policy research at Strategas.
The following is a free preview of CNBC Pro. To get more investment analysis and the live CNBC TV feed, please subscribe.
To much fanfare, Alphabet's market capitalization topped $531 billion Tuesday, surpassing Apple's $524 billion worth and making the Google parent the most valuable publicly-traded company in the world.
But heavy is the head that wears the crown. The history of the largest companies in the S&P 500 and their performance after taking the title indicates shareholders may want to take some profits.
The Leuthold Group's Doug Ramsey notes when companies become the most valuable company in the S&P 500 and approach 4 percent of the benchmark's market cap, their tenures at the top are very short-lived.
A top tech analyst thinks that if Yahoo gets a bid, it should sell itself.
BGC Partners senior technology analyst Colin Gillis, who has a $39 price target on the stock, told CNBC's "Squawk Alley" that the tech company should settle its affairs out of the limelight.
"Yahoo is a turnaround play that has shown very little turnaround ... the reality is this is a company that's best served being sold and turned around privately," said Gillis.
In January, activist hedge fund Starboard Value sent a letter to the company's board saying that management had failed to turn around Yahoo and that the fund had lost all confidence. Starboard Value's CEO, Jeffrey Smith, also told CNBC that the fund had been contacted by potential buyers of Yahoo's core business.
If the days of "buying the dips" are over, it's only because investors should be waiting for something much, much bigger, according to one strategist.
In volatile markets, buying the dip is an investing strategy to purchase stocks at a discount when they fall, betting that prices will rise again. However, Nick Colas of Convergex said a much more fitting approach is to "buy the crater," on days when the S&P 500 falls by 5 percent or more.
"Those are days when you get a real buying opportunity on the close," Colas said Monday on CNBC's "Trading Nation." "The 5 percent drop yielded something we can noticeably say is outside the normal return of the market."
Earlier this year, JPMorgan strategist Mislav Matejka declared an end to seven years of "buying the dip" as he turned bearish on stocks.
Read MoreBuy the dips? No, sell the rallies: JPM strategist
"We were positive on equities for quite a long time," Matejka said in a January "Trading Nation" interview. "But we think structurally, this regime is coming to an end, and the regime that we should be having now is one of selling any rallies."
Colas found an extreme exception.
According to Colas, buying stocks when the S&P 500 closes down more than 5 percent in a session has yielded 19 percent returns on average over one year and 75 percent returns on average over five years. In comparison, buying a 2.5 percent dip saw negative one-year returns more often, and yielded 7 percent on average, Colas said.
Those looking specifically for a 5 percent drop in the market may be waiting for a long time. The last time the market saw a decline of such magnitude was in August 2011. The closest the S&P has come this year is a loss of 2.5 percent on Jan. 13.
Nonetheless, Colas said the market is due for another notable one-day pullback. Factors such as rising interest rates, slow global growth, low commodities prices and a strong U.S. dollar should continue to shake up markets, he said.
"The market may face enough risk and uncertainty for unusual, but not unprecedented moves to the downside," Colas wrote in a note Monday. "We would maintain enough cash to take advantage of greater corrections than seen thus far this year."
Shares of Michael Kors shot up more than 20 percent Tuesday, after the handbag maker reported sales and profits that easily topped Wall Street's expectations during the holiday quarter.
More importantly, despite aggressive promotions that permeated across the broader handbag sector, the affordable luxury maker also reported better-than-feared gross margins.
BP investors might as well be playing in the casino, especially after its latest earnings report, CNBC's Jim Cramer said Tuesday.
"BP turns out to be a dice roll in oil. Who would have thought of that [CEO Bob] Dudley had put together a company that I thought wasn't nearly as levered to the daily price of oil. Literally, that's red-black roulette. Black, oil goes up, BP does well. Red, oil goes down, BP is a disaster," Cramer said on "Squawk on the Street."
BP did not immediately respond to a CNBC request for comment.
The oil giant reported Tuesday its largest annual loss in 20 years in its fourth-quarter results that were well below expectations.
Crude prices around the world were under pressure once again Tuesday, with WTI around $30 a barrel and Brent down nearly 5 percent.
Here's a riddle. What company can blow more than $3.5 billion on "other projects" this quarter and still have more black all over its income statement than at any time in its history? The advertising behemoth Alphabet, formerly known as Google.
And I think it's important to note that this was the first real Alphabet quarter where all of the other business lines were broken out. Why? Because investors are going to begin factoring those other projects into Alphabet's multiple as they try to discern whether Alphabet can overcome a potential downturn in its core advertising business long-term.
Closely followed market watcher Dennis Gartman says billionaire Boone Pickens' prediction that the bottom is in for oil is off base.
"It's a supply circumstance. You can see it in the term structure of the futures market on Friday, when you had a strong rally, the back months led the way up," Gartman told CNBC's "Fast Money" traders on Monday. "That's not how bull markets function, that's how bear markets function, and I think Mr. Pickens, a hero of mine, is wrong."
Pickens, who built Mesa Petroleum into a powerhouse and founded BP Capital Management, told CNBC's  "Squawk Box" on Monday that oil would be trading at $52 by year's end.
"Once you hit bottom which I think was $26.15 on WTI, you're going to double within 12 months by historical information," Pickens said. "So here you are at $30 and I think you'll be at $52 by the end of the year."
Read More Pickens: Oil already bottomed—here's what's next
On Tuesday, West Texas Intermediate crude fell to around $30 a barrel. Oil is now down nearly 20 percent this year.
The U.S. presidential election season began with the Iowa caucuses Monday. Are there any trends that emerge in the stock market during election years?
Using Kensho, a hedge fund analytics tool, CNBC Pro looked at election years since 1992 and screened for which securities outperform the market.
One sector stands out and for good reason...
Check out which companies are making headlines before the bell:
Pfizer — The drug maker earned an adjusted 53 cents per share for the fourth quarter, 1 cent above estimates, with revenue also beating forecasts. Pfizer was helped by demand for its pneumonia vaccine and its recent acquisition of Hospira. However, Pfizer did forecast full-year 2016 earnings that are slightly below Street forecasts.
Michael Kors — The luxury goods maker beat estimates by 13 cents with adjusted quarterly profit of $1.59 per share, and revenue also came in above forecasts. Kors was helped by particular strength in accessories and footwear.
Archer Daniels Midland — The grain processor missed estimates by 3 cents with adjusted quarterly profit of 61 cents per share, and revenue was well short of forecasts. The company cited adverse market conditions that impacted many of its businesses, and said headwinds were likely to persist. However, ADM did raise its quarterly dividend to 30 cents per share from 28 cents.
Dow Chemical — The chemical maker, which is in the midst of merging with DuPont, earned an adjusted 93 cents per share for the fourth quarter, 23 cents above estimates, and revenue also was above forecasts.
Sirius XM — The satellite radio operator matched estimates with earnings of 3 cents per share for its latest quarter, and revenue was slightly above forecasts. However, Sirius did predict a slowing in subscriber growth this year to its slowest since at least 2013.
Alphabet — The Google parent reported adjusted quarterly profit of $8.67 per share, 57 cents above estimates, with revenue also beating forecasts. The core Google internet business saw operating income rise 23 percent for the year compared to 2014, and an after-hours rally propelled Alphabet past Apple as the world's most valuable company.
Mattel — The toy maker beat estimates by 6 cents with adjusted quarterly profit of 67 cents per share, and revenue also came in above analyst forecasts. Mattel's bottom line was helped by its first quarterly sales increase in more than two years, helped by renewed popularity for Barbie dolls and Hot Wheels toys.
Fitbit — Oppenheimer initiated coverage on the wearable fitness products maker with an "outperform" rating, noting Fitbit's prominent position in a market Oppenheimer feels will grow rapidly in the future.
Twitter — Twitter was downgraded to "sell" from "hold" at Stifel, which said Twitter has never developed a sustainable business model and may never achieve that goal.
Mallinckrodt — The biopharmaceutical company reported adjusted quarterly profit of $2.09 per share, well above estimates of $1.78. Revenue also beat forecasts, and the company raised its fiscal 2016 earnings guidance above current Street consensus. Mallinckrodt's upbeat performance was led by a 45 percent sales increase for its "Exceptional Specialty Brands" segment.
Aflac — Aflac reported adjusted quarterly profit of $1.56 per share, 9 cents above estimates, while revenue came in ahead of estimates as well. The insurance company was able to beat forecasts despite the negative impact of a weaker yen, which hurt Aflac's prominent Japan business.
Anadarko Petroleum — The energy producer lost an adjusted 57 cents per share, smaller than the consensus estimate of a $1.08 loss. Revenue was very slightly below forecasts as the company dealt with lower oil prices, and it said it expected to cut 2016 capital spending nearly in half compared to 2015.
Rent-A-Center — The company beat estimates by 2 cents with adjusted quarterly profit of 54 cents per share, though revenue missed the mark. The rent-to-own company also predicted a 2016 same-store sales decline of one to 3 percent.
BP — BP reported its biggest annual loss in more than 20 years for 2015, and plans to cut 7,000 jobs by 2017. That represents about 9 percent of its workforce, as it tries to deal with the ongoing decline in oil prices.
Sanofi — Sanofi launched an effort to develop a vaccine to combat the fast-growing Zika virus. The project will be undertaken by the drug maker's Sanofi Pasteur vaccines division.
UBS — The bank reported earnings that topped analyst forecasts, but the shares are under pressure after the bank reported an unexpected outflow from its wealth management business.
Take-Two Interactive — The video game maker was hit with a copyright lawsuit by tattoo designer Solid Oak Sketches. The dispute involves the use of tattoos that are worn by NBA stars LeBron James and Kobe Bryant in Take-Two's NBA 2K16 video game.
21st Century Fox  — Fox is aiming for $250 million in cost cuts over the next fiscal year, according to the Wall Street Journal. The paper said the cuts would come primarily through buyouts, with workers in the TV and movie studio groups notified on Monday.
Traders have been speculating for several weeks that a part of the global selling in stocks that started in December may be due to oil-related sovereign wealth funds selling assets in order to make up for the shortfall in revenues due to the decline in oil.
We are starting to get some data that indicates that at least part of the selling may indeed be due to this type of selling, particularly regarding the weakness we have seen in financials.
Oil-related SWFs have significant assets. The Sovereign Wealth Fund Institute estimates that the assets under management of the largest oil-producing SWFs (Norway, Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates, Saudi Arabia, Kuwait and Qatar) amounts to $3.2 trillion.
On Friday, JPMorgan released a report on global flows which concluded that oil-producing countries were indeed net sellers of assets last year.
After oil's slide continued Monday, "Fast Money" traders debated whether energy companies would see relief any time soon.
U.S. crude futures settled nearly 6 percent lower on the day at $31.62 a barrel. The commodity's price has fallen nearly 18 percent this year, but trader Guy Adami believes it could slide even more.
He pointed to the CBOE Crude Oil Volatility Index, which spiked nearly 8 percent on Monday and has increased 43 percent this year. The index measures market expectations for crude oil volatility.
"The OVX still suggests there's further pain to the downside," he said.
The "Fast Money" traders delivered their final trades of the day.
Tim Seymour and Guy Adami went head to head on Netflix.  Seymour was a seller while Adami said buy it.
Dan Nathan was a seller of Exxon-Mobil.
Karen Finerman said "don't chase Alphabet" after the internet giant reported better than expected quarterly numbers.
In the wave of Monday morning's earning reports Aetna topped the Street's forecast, but missed on its 2016 projected earnings.
The health insurance giant earned an adjusted $1.37 per share in its latest quarter, beating estimates by 16 cents, and its revenue also topped forecasts. Aetna was helped by improved membership numbers and margins in its Medicare business. The company expects 2016 earnings of $7.75 per share, below estimates for $8.05 a share.
"I think Street consensus was built from a number of other aspects. Our stock is up today; our number was at least $7.75 a share, which is 10 percent of the baseline for '15," Aetna CEO Mark Bertolini said Monday on CNBC's "Closing Bell."
"We think our guidance is appropriately prudent at this time given all the changes that will happen in '16 around the Affordable Care Act and the changes in taxes and fees in the Affordable Care Act," Bertolini said.
Aetna shares rose 1.5 percent Monday.
More than 70 percent of reports this earnings season have exceeded analysts' estimates, setting up a potential winning trade among those names with strong track records.
On average, fourth-quarter earnings among the companies that have reported are 3 percent above expectations, but flat on a year-over-year basis, according to Thomson Reuters. Excluding the energy sector, earnings growth stands at 2 percent.
Similarly, revenue figures have come in line with estimates, but declined 2 percent from the same period last year.
With more than a fifth of the S&P 500 companies set to report this week, traders everywhere are gearing up for a potential post-earnings surge among certain names.
Read MoreWatch—options strategies for a volatile market
While betting on stocks ahead of earnings is often a difficult trade, investors tend to look at historical data to make assessments about the future.
Of course, the low bar set by analysts may also help.
Lately, it seemed to Jim Cramer that the crazy linkage between oil and stocks would last forever. Whenever oil would go up, the market would rally; whenever oil went down, stocks were crushed.
"That is lunacy, as I've said repeatedly, because the vast, vast majority of companies in the S&P actually benefit from cheaper crude," the "Mad Money" host said.
Many investors believe that since the oil industry has become a lot larger than it used to be, the weak demand for oil could be a sign that the U.S. is headed into a recession. However, Cramer does not agree. He believes the price of oil is all about a supply glut and very little to do with demand.
Cramer finally saw some light at the end of the tunnel on Wednesday last week, when for the first time in ages, it became clear that the stock market and oil futures were trying to decouple.
Jim Cramer knows that the U.S. central bank is supposed to be separate from politics. But on the night of the Iowa caucus, where two extremist candidates are poised to do well, he had to acknowledge the connection between these two subjects.
The fact is that the Fedreally matters. Not just in terms of monetary policies and the economy but also in terms of America's political stability.
"Second, right now, the Fed seems to be doing a pretty terrible job," the "Mad Money" host said.
If the Fed continues on its slated course of raising interest rates four times this year, Cramer thinks it is very likely that the U.S. will go into a recession.
When it comes to dealmaking among big, integrated oil companies, it's not a question of who will do deals this year, but when, according to top-rated energy analyst Doug Terreson of Evercore ISI.
Mergers and acquisitions activity in the U.S. energy patch fell to a five-year low in the final quarter of 2015 as oil and gas companies preserved cash and entered "survival mode," PricewaterhouseCoopers reported last week.
But by the end of the first half of this year, big oil firms like ExxonMobil, Chevron, and Royal Dutch Shell  could start buying smaller companies that have been beaten up during a more than year-long oil price rout, Terreson said.
"We think they're all going to do a big deal," he told CNBC's "Fast Money: Halftime Report." "We think when you consider that [exploration and production] reserves are trading at about half the level they can find reserves for with the drill bit, there are great opportunities for these companies."
"We also think winners and losers are going to be determined by this activity for years to come," he added.
Check out the companies making headlines after the bell Monday:
Shares of technology giant Alphabet climbed after the bell Monday, ballooning its market capitalization to $570 billion to unofficially surpass Apple as the world's largest company. The technology giant posted quarterly earnings that beat analysts estimates by a wide margin, with earnings per share of $8.67 on revenue of $21.33 billion, versus the expected  $8.10 earnings on $20.77 billion.
The Internet company's aggregate paid clicks, a key advertising metric, rose 31 percent from the previous year, beating consensus expectations of about 22 percent, according to StreetAccount. Fellow advertising platform LinkedIn also bounced after hours ahead of its earnings announcement this Thursday.
Hatred of the U.S. stock market is near levels last seen during the financial crisis, according to a Wall Street sentiment measure. And that, ironically, increases the chances the selling is almost over.
Citi Research strategist Tobias Levkovich said his time-tested sentiment model shows there is a 97 percent chance of market gains over the next 12 months. This probability is nearly 20 percent higher than historical average.
Monetary policy in the U.S. will be tighter even if the Federal Reserve does not raise interest rates this year, Art Cashin of UBS said Monday.
"I have said again and again: I don't think the Fed tightens anymore, but I think the other central banks are, in effect, tightening for them by bringing their rates down and raising the contrast with the U.S. rates, and therefore the U.S. dollar," the firm's director of floor operations at the New York Stock Exchange told CNBC's "Squawk on the Street."
Japan's central bank surprised investors around the world Friday by introducing negative interest rates for the first time ever. The Bank of Japan also left its government bonds and exchange-traded funds purchase program unchanged.
Shares of Herbalife started the week up more than 2 percent after it was recently reported by The Wall Street Journal that government investigations cleared the company of allegations of having a fraudulent business model.
Probes by the FBI and the U.S. attorney's office failed to find sufficient evidence of criminal wrongdoing within Herbalife, a multilevel marketing company that focuses on nutritional supplements, sources told the newspaper, which first reported it late Friday.
The investigations similarly cleared activist investor Bill Ackman, who has a $1 billion short position against Herbalife, the Journal said. The inquiry focused on allegations that Ackman's closed-end fund, Pershing Square Holdings, might have manipulated Herbalife's stock price.
Japanese stocks are starting the month off strong.
On Monday, the Nikkei rose 2 percent, closing near a one-month high, after the Bank of Japan's decision to take interest rates into negative territory. And according to one technician, Japanese stocks aren't done with their rally just yet.
Craig Johnson of Piper Jaffray said that EWJ, the ETF that tracks Japanese stocks, is set up for a relief rally that will take the ETF as much as 8 percent higher.
"You'll see that the EWJ has gotten pretty oversold and is starting to bounce, money flow is starting to improve back into EWJ," Johnson said Friday in a "Trading Nation" segment.
Read MoreAn industrial recession may be engulfing America
Stacey Gilbert of Susquehanna said while investors seem to be betting on more upside for Japanese stocks, they're favoring currency-hedged ETFs to account for weakness in the yen.
These ETFs include DXJ, HEWJ and DBJP, all of which have outperformed EWJ in the last week. Both HEWJ and DBJP have risen 6 percent in one week.
"If you look at the actual ETF side, this is where you see the most interesting activity with buyers of the currency-hedged ETF. This is different from what we've seen most of this year," Gilbert said Friday on "Trading Nation."
January was a month to forget for investors due to a synchronized sell-off in stocks around the world. But as February comes around, the market's uptrend may resume, if history is any guide.
Using data from Kensho, a tool designed to quantify historical market events, CNBC Pro ran a study to find seasonality trends for the weeks ahead.
Watch the video below to find out the results.
Sentiment on Wall Street has gotten so bad that it's good, at least according to one indicator with a high degree of accuracy.
Investor optimism has continued to erode through the current correcting, with some gauges showing bearishness at multiyear highs.
One in particular — the Bank of America Merrill Lynch Sell Side Indicator — puts sentiment "close to where it was at the market lows of March 2009," the firm's strategists said in a report Monday. That date will be familiar to many investors as it marked the Great Recession low and preceded a 200 percent bull market surge.
Read MoreThis rare, fearful Fed trade may set tone for year
The gauge is a fairly basic measure of how the biggest portfolio managers are positioned. Over the course of the past 15 years, the traditional stock weighting is around 60 percent; currently, that level stands at 52.1 percent, a 0.7 percentage point slide from December and below the 52.9 percent threshold that would trigger a "buy" signal.
Using a little math, the indicator points to a 17 percent price return for the next 12 months, which gets the S&P 500 to the 2,270 range, based on Friday's closing level.
Investor nerves over emerging markets and China – the "elephant in the room" – are resulting 25-30 percent holdings in cash at Swiss bank Julius  Baer, the chief executive told CNBC Monday.
CEO Boris Collardi said investors were looking to reduce their exposure to emerging market volatility such as that seen in China since the start of the year, with investors increasingly nervous that the world's second-largest economy could be heading for a "hard landing" as growth slows.
"If you look at China, the elephant in the room in the last 12 months, we've had a lot of volatility and that makes people nervous," he told CNBC Europe's "Squawk Box."
"There is a little bit more caution on the side of investors and at the same time we're looking at them trying to diversify their emerging market concentration...I would say they've been cautious on leverage, some of them have deleveraged a bit but broadly we're still continuing to see people active in the market. But I think our reading is perhaps a bit more pessimistic than what it is on the ground."
He added that the bank was holding "double-digit number in cash."
Hedge funds have been notable for putting big shorts against the Chinese yuan in the expectation that the currency will depreciate further - particularly as pressure mounts on the People's Bank of China to devalue the currency further to increase the competitiveness of its exports, among other reasons.
Depressed oil prices are likely to rally in the second half of the year —perhaps as high as $85 per barrel, energy analyst Michael Rothman said Monday. That said, he added any move higher won't be a result of coordinated production cuts.
West Texas Intermediate crude tumbled around 5 percent in late morning trade to under $32 per barrel, as hopes for a deal among OPEC countries and Russia to reduce output dwindled.
Read MorePickens: Oil already bottomed—here's what's next
An output cut "was never going to happen, the notion that [OPEC and Russia] would agree to reduce their output and help support prices was a nonstarter," said Rothman, founder and president of the Cornerstone Analytics research firm.
The U.S. economy may have an industrial-sized problem.
In their earnings calls, several companies have warned of an industrial or manufacturing recession. And economic data appear to be lending additional credence to their concerns, given weak manufacturing activity in January and markedly slow durable goods orders in December.
"We don't have enough data to know" that the U.S. is heading into a manufacturing recession, "but it's reasonable to be nervous about it at this point," economist Max Wolff of Manhattan Venture Partners said Thursday on CNBC's "Trading Nation."
The ISM manufacturing index hit 48.2 in January, marking the fourth-consecutive month of contractions. On Thursday, the Commerce Department reported that durable goods orders fell 5.1 percent in December, badly missing expectations of a 0.6 percent drop.
Read More Market reacts to sharp decline in durable goods orders
"The manufacturing sector may not yet be officially in recession, but that is beginning to feel like merely an academic distinction when durable goods orders have fallen in four out of the past five months," Wells Fargo economists write.
What's more, the latest indications of softness come amid some strikingly bearish commentary from manufacturing- and industrial-exposed companies' fourth-quarter earnings calls.
Dan Florness, the relatively new CEO of industrial supply company Fastenal, commented that softness has been "broadening" from energy companies to "other industries that you don't normally associate with oil and gas, ... companies that are involved in a really weak industrial economy."
More starkly, Kansas City Southern CEO David Starling said that "what we're going through now reminds me a lot of what we were going through back in 2009." He mentioned that another railroad executive surmised that "we are in an energy market depression, an industrial and manufacturing recession."
Michael Ward, CEO of fellow railroad company CSX, noted that "if you take out the recession, we've not seen these kind of pressures in so many markets because you have multiple aspects working against you: The low gas prices, the low commodity prices, the strength of the dollar."
Read More Factory slowdown hits these states hardest
The strong U.S. dollar, in particular, is hazardous to manufacturers' health. As the dollar has risen in value against many other currencies, it becomes more expensive for consumers in those countries to buy goods manufactured in the U.S. This, coupled with weakness in global economies, creates a tricky situation for manufacturers.
Still, there may be reason to believe the first quarter will far better. The preliminary January reading for Markit's manufacturing purchasing managers' index showed a nice rebound in January — after the index hit a 38-month low in December.
Yet even Deutsche Bank's typically bullish Joseph LaVorgna is hesitant to brush the durable goods number aside.
"To be sure, the durable goods data are notoriously volatile, and it is possible that business spending will rebound this quarter. However, given the ongoing weakness in oil prices and the sharp plunge in CEO confidence, we highly doubt this will occur," the economist wrote in a note Thursday. "We are worried that our GDP growth forecast [for the first half of 2016] may be too high."
Oil prices are pushing stocks lower as investors looked to move on from a dismal January, CNBC's Jim Cramer said Monday.
"The inventory numbers are still too large. I don't see any real demand at the $34-$35 level," Cramer said on "Squawk on the Street."
U.S. oil inventories increased by 8.4 million barrels from Jan 18. to Jan. 22, according to the latest data from the Energy Information Administration.
Editor's note: TipRanks is a tech company that ranks analysts and financial bloggers based on their picks performance. The goal of this piece is to highlight an analyst that you likely have never heard of who has a great track record.
The market pullback in the biotech sector is tumultuous for investors, but it may offer a great long-term investment entry point, according to a top analyst on Wall Street.
Brian Abrahams of Jefferies upgraded Vertex Pharmaceuticals from "Hold" to "Buy." He did, however, lower his price target from $142 to $120 given the recent decline. That new target still represents a rally of about 30 percent from Friday's close.
Abrahams is a top analyst in the biotech sector. His stock picks average a 19.4 percent one-year return with a 60 percent success rate. He is ranked in the top 4 percent of all Wall Street analysts according to TipRanks.
Here is why the analyst is bullish on Vertex.
Morgan Creek Capital Management chief Mark Yusko said Monday he's on the same page with Carl Icahn when the billionaire investor says there's danger ahead in credit markets.
Yusko, who last year correctly forecast crude oil would fall to $30 a barrel by the end of 2015, said trouble in the energy industry, which accounts for roughly 15 to 20 percent of high-yield debt, will seriously impact credit markets.
"We haven't even seen the beginning of bankruptcies in the oil patch," he told CNBC's "Squawk Box."
"I think capex is going to drop off quite dramatically later this year, drilling activity is going to slow, a lot of companies are going to go [bankrupt], and I think that's going to lead to some really bad numbers economically," he added.
Treasury bond exchange-traded funds took four of the top five spots among all ETFs in investor inflows in January. It's the first time that's happened since 2003, and only the second time ever that Treasury bond ETFs have dominated ETF flows in a month.
The ETF data, provided to CNBC by XTF.com, shows just how fearful investors were in a January that was the worst for the markets since 2009. Only twice in the history of the ETF industry have four Treasury ETFs managed to make the top 10 ETFs in asset flows — August 2003 and September 2015 — let alone the top 5 for a 30-day period.
Check out which companies are making headlines before the bell:
Aetna — The health insurer earned an adjusted $1.37 per share for its latest quarter, 16 cents above estimates, with revenue also beating forecasts. Aetna was helped by improved membership numbers and margins in its Medicare business. However, it is also projecting full year 2016 earnings of $7.75 per share, below estimates of $8.05 a share.
Questar — The natural gas producer is being bought by Dominion Resources for $25 per share in cash, or about $.4 billion. Questar had closed Friday at $20.39 per share.
Cardinal Health — The drug distributor earned an adjusted $1.30 per share for its latest quarter, 4 cents above estimates, with revenue also above analysts' forecasts. The company said its results were boosted by growth in its customer base and solid fundamentals, among other factors.
Twitter — The Information's Jessica Lessin reports that investor Marc Andreessen and Silver Lake Partners have considered a deal for Twitter, whose stock has been battered in recent weeks.
Restoration Hardware — Cowen downgraded the home furnishings retailer to "market perform" from "outperform," citing a slowdown in high end consumer spending and a promotional environment.
AIG — The insurance company was downgraded to "market perform" from "outperform" at BMO Capital Markets, saying AIG will have a tough time delivering on the financial targets announced last week in AIG's new strategic plan.
Blackstone — The asset manager is reportedly seeking buyers for information technology outsourcing firm Pactera, one of its biggest China-based assets. Dow Jones reports Blackstone could get up to $1 billion for Pactera.
Monster Beverage — The energy drinkmaker's stock was upgraded to "outperform" from "market perform" at Wells Fargo. That follows recent weakness in the shares, plus the results of a Wells Fargo survey showing U.S. distribution issues are largely resolved.
American Airlines Group — Cowen upgraded the airline's stock to "outperform" from "market perform," saying it sees American's key metrics improving sequentially throughout the year.
Chipotle Mexican Grill — The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention is expected to declare as soon as today that the restaurant chain's E. coli outbreak is officially over.
Tesla Motors — Chief Executive Officer Elon Musk has increased his investment in the electric car maker. Musk exercised 532,000 Tesla stock options last week, and covered the taxes with cash rather than selling some of his current holdings.
Boeing — Boeing won the contract to begin preliminary work on a new fleet of Air Force One presidential jets, based on its 747-8 model. The initial contract is worth $25.8 million, while estimates put the deal's total worth at $1.65 billion.
Nokia — Nokia settled a long-running patent dispute with Samsung, but the shares are under pressure on investor disappointment over the financial terms of that deal.
HSBC — HSBC is imposing a global hiring and pay freeze, according to Reuters.
Las Vegas Sands, Wynn Resorts — These are among casino operators on today's watch list, following word that gambling revenue in Macau dropped 21.4 percent in January compared to a year earlier, putting it near a five-year low.
Barclays, Credit Suisse — The two companies have settled with New York State and with the Securities and Exchange Commission in a case that had alleged that the banks misled investors in their so-called "dark pools." The banks will pay a combined total of $154.3 million.
Herbalife — Neither Herbalife nor investor Bill Ackman were found to have engaged in activity to support criminal charges, according to The Wall Street Journal. Ackman continues to maintain that the nutritional products company is nothing more than a pyramid scheme.
Coca-Cola — Coca-Cola took a 40 percent stake in Nigerian juice and snack Chi as it continues its push into Africa.
Toyota Motor — Toyota may halt production at its Japanese plants this month because of a steel shortage. That shortage stems from an explosion at the Aichi Steel plant that has impacted production of steel auto components.
Yahoo — Chief Executive Officer Marissa Mayer is not planning to leave the company, according to the New York Post, which also said this week's earnings may be better than many analysts expect. (Disclosure: CNBC has a content-sharing partnership with Yahoo's finance site.)
U.S. stocks suffered their worst January in at least seven years last month, as the slump in oil prices, coupled with China's economic slowdown and continued market interventions, roiled global assets.
But Myles Bradshaw, the head of global aggregate fixed income at Amundi, believes markets have been too hasty to call an economic slump and now is the time to buy underpriced riskier assets.
"I think you have got to take a step back — because you can get caught up with the noise of the markets — and ask yourself, fundamentally, what is the outlook for the global economy?" he told CNBC in London.
"Many markets are now pricing in a significant probability of recession and when we talk about recession, we're talking particularly about a U.S. recession. Do you think that is likely or not? To me, the odds are too high; the market is pricing too high a probability."
As a rough January for stocks comes to an end, BMO Private Bank's chief operating officer Jack Ablin sees a few reasons to be optimistic.
First of all, the decline in stock prices have made U.S. stocks—which he has recently perceived as rather pricey—a better value.
"We are getting close, or closer, to fair value, and I think that's something that investors can eventually sink their teeth into," Ablin said last week on CNBC's "Futures Now."
The "Fast Money" traders gave their final trades of the day.
Tim Seymour was a seller of the iShares MSCI Emerging Markets ETF.
Brian Kelly was a buyer of CME Group.
Dan Nathan was a seller of the Consumer Staples Select Sector SPDR Fund.
Guy Adami was a buyer of the iShares 20+ Year Treasury Bond ETF.
Companies reported some spectacular quarters this week, and Jim Cramer thought it just added more fuel to the fire in Friday's rally.
It was the stocks that had huge moves this week that made it to Cramer's shopping list for next week, because he is confident that there could be more sell-off days ahead.
First on Cramer's list was Facebook, which blew away investor expectations when it reported. Cramer thinks this stock remains cheap, even after its remarkable run.
"Here is a company that is making a fortune off you, and you love it," the "Mad Money" host said.
Jim Cramer was really puzzled about the aerospace group this week. He decided to make it his mission to figure out if this group is peaking, because there is some serious money to be made or lost when it comes to the sector.
The aerospace stocks have been among the strongest out there. The space was suddenly called into question on Wednesday when Boeing  reported a decent quarter, but then gave very weak guidance. Immediately, investors worried that the aerospace sector could be peaking, and Boeing's stock plunged almost 9 percent in a single session.
Even though Boeing got the most attention, there was also other bits of news that came out that had a much different takeaway. United Technologies issued a brighter outlook for its aerospace business. Additionally, Honeywell reported on Friday and reported similarly positive guidance, including in its aerospace division.
With these conflicting signals, Cramer boiled it down to two possible theories. Maybe the aerospace industry is peaking, and Boeing is just seeing it before the others.
"The fact is that high gasoline prices have less to do with supply and demand and more to do with Wall Street speculators driving prices up in the energy futures market." Presidential candidate Bernie Sanders made that claim in the summer of  summer of 2014, when crude was at about $100 a barrel.
At that time, Sanders was one of many people who called for government intervention in the rising price of crude.
In today's market, however, many consider the oversupply is  the culprit of downward pressure in oil prices.
"If the market is going up, you buy; if you think it's going down, you sell. It's a matter of supply and demand," Brad Schaeffer, natural gas options/futures Broker at BlackBarrel Energy, told CNBC's "Closing Bell" on Friday.
One analyst says that investors should expect dividend cuts in big oil after long-time industry leader Chevron reported a quarterly loss for the first time since 2002.
"There will come a day where dividend is at risk and that day is today," Oppenheimer senior analyst Fadel Gheit told CNBC's "Squawk on the Street."
"Not only Chevron, but the rest of the industry is currently funding dividends through additional borrowing. You can't do that forever," Gheit said.
Read More'Big oil' earnings: Investors get ready for pain
Although Gheit is anticipating Chevron to cut its dividend any day now, the company is likely to seek alternative solutions first. Chevron already stopped its share buyback program last year. In October, Chevron cut 6,000 to 7,000 jobs. The company also announced in December a capital budget cut of 24 percent for 2016.
(The following article is a CNBC Pro free preview. Click here to subscribe).
In one of the most volatile months in recent memory, U.S. stocks are on pace to close broadly in the red along with the rest of global markets.
Among the major indexes, the small-cap Russell 2000, Nasdaq composite and biotech sector were hit the hardest, each down at least 9 percent in January.
The only areas of the market bucking the trend were utilities and telecom stocks, which are seen by investors as defensive plays.
Read MoreTrade it: Where to hide during recessions
Here's your full data rundown of the carnage in stocks and commodities.
There's little chance the OPEC cartel and nonmember Russia could reach a deal that would result in lower oil production, despite market intrigue and a jump in crude prices on talk of a possible agreement.
Analysts said Iran would have to be on board in order for OPEC to be willing to strike any deal, but an unnamed Iranian official quoted by the Dow Jones news agency on Friday signaled the country would not participate.
"It's very hard to see how this works with Iran ramping up production. What the key is now is how much Iran comes out in terms of putting stored oil back onto the market. The next shoe to drop is clarity about how much oil Iran could put in the market," said Daniel Yergin, vice chairman of IHS.
Read MoreWhy oil glut not going away soon
CNBC's Jim Cramer doesn't understand why investors reacted positively to news that the Bank of Japan unexpectedly adopted negative interest rates.
"I saw futures jump huge when Japan announced this, but it's like: 'No, guys. It's bad for us,'" Cramer said on "Squawk Box." "This is about them taking share from us."
In a move that was signaled by the Nikkei business daily minutes ahead of the decision, the BOJ said it will apply a rate of negative 0.1 percent to excess reserves that financial institutional place at the bank, effective Feb. 16.
Charging banks for the privilege of parking some of their excess funds was an unexpected move, although not without precedent. The European Central Bank slashed interest rates below zero last year to push down borrowing costs and prod banks to lend more.
In its announcement, the BOJ said the Japanese economy has recovered modestly with underlying inflation and spending by companies and households ticking up.
But the bank warned that increasing uncertainty in emerging markets and commodity-exporting countries may delay an improvement in Japanese business confidence and negatively affect the current inflation trend.
The BOJ's inflation target is 2 percent. The BOJ now forecasts core inflation to average 0.2 to 1.2 percent between April 2016 and March 2017.
Cramer said lower interest rates abroad hurt the U.S. economy because they stimulate foreign competition.
"This is a Toyota versus Ford," said Cramer. "I just can't believe that we always seem to react positively to things that are really bad. It is about taking our jobs away."
— CNBC's Nyshka Chandran contributed to this report.
Derivatives expert Mike Khouw joined CNBC Pro on Friday to discuss why every investor should use options.
During his talk with CNBC's Mike Santoli, Khouw, a 20-year Wall Street veteran and co-author of "The Options Edge," explained how options can be used in a volatile environment like today to generate steady income, if they are used properly.
By using real-life examples, he walks investors through these strategies.
Santoli also challenges Khouw on the very real risks investors face when they decide to start trading options.
Given the explosive growth in options volume over the last decade, this interview is a must watch for anyone looking to gain expertise in this area of the market.
2016 is proving a difficult year for banks across Europe, as the industry grapples with nonperforming loans, rocky markets, increasing regulation and exposure to emerging market volatility.
"We start 2016 with a cautious outlook on European banks despite the sector trading at market lows," Bernstein analysts led by Thomas Seidl said in a report this month.
"We downgrade our last year's positive outlook due to a slower-than-expected European recovery despite QE (quantitative easing), margin compression, and the unexpected fall and continuing low oil price with its effect on our emerging markets Brazil, Mexico and Russia," they said.
CNBC takes a look at the challenges hitting banks in the major European countries, ahead of a flurry of earnings next month.
When it comes to economic growth, 2016 is looking a lot like 2015 — and probably even worse.
Friday's report showing that gross domestic product grew just 0.7 percent in the fourth quarter brought to a conclusion another year of dashed hopes for economic liftoff — "escape velocity," as it is sometimes called.
Seven years of zero interest rates, $3.7 trillion worth of Fed money printing and more than $6 trillion piled onto the public debt resulted in an economy still struggling to break 2.5 percent full-year growth. In fact, if the first reading on GDP holds up on revision, the U.S. economy will have expanded just 2.4 percent for the full year, according to the Commerce Department.
At the start of 2015, most economists expected U.S. growth of 3 percent or better, predicated on sizable gains in consumer spending, business investment and construction. Instead, the year featured consumers mostly hanging onto their gas savings, weak capital expenditures (including a decline of 1.8 percent in the fourth quarter) and slumping oil prices battering investment instead of lifting spending.
Read MoreBuy stocks when everyone's miserable: CEO
Looking ahead, the early indicators are not good, with chances of a recession gaining more traction on Wall Street.
The dollar was surging against the yen as the Bank of Japan took the stunning step Friday of adopting negative interest rates in a bid to revive the country's economy and protect against deflation.
What do you buy if this big devaluation by Japan sparks a sustained rally higher in the dollar? The yen was down about 2 percent versus the greenback midday Friday.
CNBC Pro searched for the big winners and losers under this scenario.
Using Kensho, a hedge fund analytics tool, we looked at all the times when the Japanese currency fell by 5 percent versus the dollar in 90 days. This kind of drop has happened eight times since 2005.
Here are the top and bottom performers among stocks in the Dow Jones industrial average during those 90-day periods of yen declines.
A key American fuel gauge is on the fritz, and no one seems sure how to fix it — is cheap gas helping the economy or isn't it?
The correlation between oil prices and the stock market has  reached a level only rarely ever seen — if oil tanks, it takes stocks right down with it. It's the tightest correlation in 26 years, according to the Wall Street Journal. Meanwhile, economists are puzzled that the "lower for longer" gas prices have not contributed more to consumer spending.
Wal-Mart is closing stores, and Amazon reported holiday sales that, while good, were not as good as expected, and share of the country's leading online retailer cratered. Meanwhile, the consumer sentiment report released Friday came in slightly below expectations and declined from the previous reading.
For investors who buy the bull argument that cheap gas will be a tailwind for the U.S. market, the lack of a clear winner in the "cheap gas" debate provides little comfort. In laying out a bull case this week for the economy amid the market volatility and worst month for the stocks since 2009, Liz Ann Sonders, chief investment strategist at Charles Schwab, cited the cheap gas boost to the American consumer.
U.S. stocks are on pace for their worst January in seven years, but that sort of environment provides an opportunity for "rational" investors to make long-term bets, according to Jim McCaughan, CEO of Principal Global Investors.
"This is a buy-on-setbacks U.S. equity market," he told CNBC's "Squawk on the Street" on Friday.
"Buy when everyone's miserable, like they were earlier this month. That's going to be the way to make money in the equity markets," McCaughan said.
The government's reading on fourth-quarter GDP data came in at 0.7 percent Friday, but economic growth of 1 to 2 percent is actually a benign backdrop for both stocks and bonds, he added.
Stocks may have managed to eke out small gains in the last trading sessions of the month, but that hasn't saved the market from what's been one of the most volatile starts to a year ever.
The S&P 500  is down more than 6 percent in 2016, making it one of the worst Januarys ever for the large-cap index. This occurred as wild swings in crude oil and uncertainty over the global economy have weighed heavily on the equity market. The move has pushed the CBOE Volatility Index, or VIX, above 20 for most of the year. As we head into a new trading month, some traders are betting the heightened volatility could be here to stay.
On Thursday, when stocks closed firmly in the green, someone made a bet that the VIX would stay near current levels through the end of the first quarter. Specifically, that trader sold 57,000 of the March 18/20 put spreads and 57,000 of the March 27/25 call spreads collecting a total of $1.26 per contract. The strategy, which options traders call an iron condor, is essentially betting that the VIX would stay between 20 and 25 through March expiration.
Read MoreFed funds futures pricing no rate hikes in 2016
"After a few years of very low volatility, recently we've seen a pretty big uptick in it, and unfortunately it appears traders believe we are going to see more of the same," Optimize Advisors co-founder Michael Khouw said Thursday on CNBC's "Fast Money."
As the S&P 500 traded in a narrow range for most of 2015, the VIX, which trades inversely with the stock market, primarily remained below 20 — with the exception of the August swoon. Super spikes in the VIX tend to correlate with sharp declines in the S&P 500. However, since the start of 2016, the VIX has remained above the key 20 level, prompting many traders to proceed with caution. "We're well above the five-year average," added Khouw.

China is the world's biggest country, second-largest economy and top nation for smartphone sales. It's also driving tech investors crazy.
Economic growth is slowing faster than many experts expected. Add to that uncertainty surrounding when and to what degree the Chinese government will weaken its currency to boost exports.
Just as China is becoming an increasingly crucial market for U.S. tech companies, its volatility is making future earnings hard to predict. As the Nasdaq closes out its worst month since the 2008 financial crisis, down 10 percent as of Thursday's close, China is on everyone's lips.
The bounce in both oil futures and stocks, which started with an abrupt intraday reversal a week ago, has many on Wall Street calling it a short-term bottom. But deeper market analysis shows the rebound was driven mostly by short covering, and could indicate the rally will lose steam due to lack of true buying interest.
The average stock in the S&P 500 had a short position of 3.43 percent Wednesday, surpassing the 2011 peak of 3.19 percent and hitting highs not seen since March 2010, according to Markit. With stocks moving in lockstep with oil, it is no surprise that crude futures also have an all-time high net short position.
Energy stocks have the greatest amount of money bet against them, as short interest increased across all 10 S&P 500 sectors, Bespoke Investment Group said Thursday. GameStop, Chesapeake and Transocean have the greatest percentage of short interest among individual stocks, the data showed, while utilities and financials had the lowest level of shorts.
Expectations are that the level of short interest could soon rise to new records, a negative sign for the market, traders said.
Check out which companies are making headlines before the bell:
Xerox — The business services company will split into two separate companies and give board seats to investor Carl Icahn. Icahn told CNBC that the move is a good one and will greatly enhance shareholder value. Separately, Xerox beat estimates by 4 cents with adjusted quarterly profit of 32 cents per share, though revenue was shy of forecasts. Xerox also increased its quarterly dividend to 7¾ cents per share from 7 cents.
Whirlpool — The appliance maker reported adjusted quarterly profit of $4.10 per share, beating estimates of $3.91, although revenue came in below analyst forecasts. Whirlpool benefited from cost and capacity cuts, and it did report record profits for 2015.
American Airlines Group — The airline reported adjusted quarterly profit of $2.00 per share, beating estimates by 3 cents, with revenue matching forecasts.
Colgate-Palmolive — The consumer products maker earned an adjusted 73 cents per share for the fourth quarter, 1 cent above estimates, with revenue slightly below forecasts. Colgate said organic sales are growing despite challenging economic conditions, and also announced it was taking a charge to change the way it accounts for its Venezuelan operations.
Tyco — The fire protection and security products company came in 1 cent above estimates with adjusted quarterly profit of 42 cents per share, with revenue also above estimates. Tyco, which recently agreed to be bought by Johnson Controls, said it had a solid start to its fiscal year despite challenging macroeconomic conditions.
Phillips 66 — The energy logistics company reported adjusted quarterly profit of $1.31 per share, 6 cents above estimates. The company said it was able to benefit from a diversified portfolio in a low-price environment.
Amazon.com — Amazon reported quarterly profit of $1.00 per share, substantially below consensus estimates of $1.56. Revenue was slightly below forecasts as well, and the shares came under immediate pressure despite the highest-ever quarterly profit ever posted by the online retail giant.
Microsoft — Microsoft beat estimates by 7 cents with adjusted quarterly profit of 78 cents per share, with revenue also above Wall Street forecasts. Microsoft's bottom line was helped by improvement in its cloud services business as well as cost-cutting.
Visa — Visa came in 1 cent above estimates with adjusted quarterly profit of 69 cents per share, although revenue was slightly short of Street targets. The credit card issuer also affirmed its full year earnings forecast, surprising some analysts who had expected a cut.
Amgen — Amgen earned an adjusted $2.61 per share for its latest quarter, well above estimates of $2.29, with revenue essentially in line. The biotech firm is being helped by growing sales of rheumatoid arthritis drug Enbrel as well as cost cutting, and it raised its 2016 earnings and revenue guidance.
Electronic Arts — Electronic Arts came in 2 cents ahead of estimates with adjusted quarterly profit of $1.83 per share, with revenue in line. However, the video game producer did not raise its profit and sales forecasts as much as some analysts had expected following the release of the company's "Star Wars"-themed game.
Flex — Flex reported adjusted quarterly profit of $0.35 per share, 5 cents ahead of estimates, while the contract electronics manufacturer's revenue also beat Street forecasts. The company, formerly known as Flextronics, saw sales drop from a year earlier, but also increased its gross margin to 6.7 percent from 5.8 percent.
Sony — Sony beat estimates with its latest earnings and maintained its full year profit outlook. The company did say, however, it is bracing for a slowdown in the smartphone market, where it is a major supplier of image sensors for Apple's iPhone.
Toyota Motor — Toyota decided to buy out the portion of mini-vehicle maker Daihatsu that it doesn't already own. The automaker will swap about a quarter share of its own stock for each Daihatsu share.
Alphabet — Alphabet said it would separate out results from its Google unit from other areas when it releases its latest quarterly earnings on Monday.
BlackBerry — BlackBerry may abandon its own operating system and transition to Android, according to a report in the Economic Times.
Align Technology  — The maker of the Invisalign dental brace system earned 60 cents per share for its latest quarter, 6 cents above estimates, with revenue above forecasts. The company also shipped more aligners to customers than analysts had been anticipating.
The recent run in crude oil may not be enough to energize investors about the stocks it impacts most.
As the price of oil has risen 14 percent in one week, the S&P 500 energy sector has rallied 6 percent in the same time. However, the options market suggests that investors remain nervous about energy stocks, considerably more so than any other group in this year's broad market selloff.
"Everybody is an oil expert right now — people have reasons for why it's going up, people have reasons for why it's going down. But where they really express it is by buying options on the [energy sector ETF] XLE and on crude oil," Dennis Davitt of Harvest Volatility Advisors said Thursday on CNBC's "Power Lunch."
Comparatively, the implied volatility for XLE is more than 60 percent higher than it is for SPY, the ETF that tracks the S&P 500. Investor nervousness around crude oil seems even more extreme, with oil's implied volatility at almost triple that of the SPY. Implied volatility is a measure that uses options prices to track the magnitude of expected moves (especially to the downside) for a given stock or ETF.
"There's a great deal of uncertainty in the actual oil commodity that's flowing into the energy stocks, which also then in turn flows into the S&P 500," Davitt said Thursday.
In January, crude oil dropped below $27 a barrel to its lowest level since 2003. But recently the commodity has pared its deep losses, spurred by reports that Russia and Saudi Arabia may arrive at a deal to cut production in a market awash with supply.
Read MoreChances of OPEC, Russia oil deal slim to none
Still, Gina Sanchez of Chantico Global remains skeptical that an output cut will be much help to the price of oil in the near term.
"Everybody assumes that if you cut supply we should see oil rise back up quickly, and the reality is there's so much oil out there and demand is so low, the demand problem has really exacerbated this," Sanchez said Thursday in a "Trading Nation" segment. "So while you may think that oil may come up, this pig is not even halfway through the python in terms of oversupply."
The first reading of fourth-quarter GDP released Friday morning missed expectations and showed the economy just barely treading above water. What do you buy if the economy does dip into negative territory later this year?
Fourth-quarter real GDP rose 0.7 percent versus the Wall Street consensus of 0.8 percent, so the chance of a recession in 2016 is now a distinct possibility.
Credit Suisse covered this very topic in a note to clients Wednesday titled "Lessons from Past Recessions" by Lori Calvasina, the firm's U.S. equity strategist.
Using Kensho, a quantitative tool used by hedge funds, CNBC Pro screened for the best performing sectors and Dow Jones industrial average stocks during time periods since 1980 where real GDP growth fell between 0 percent and negative 3 percent.
When Jim Cramer looked at the quarter that Facebook delivered, he wished that Mark Zuckerberg would take more paternity leave.
"One-third of the remarkable quarter Facebook reported last night came during the first month that Zuckerberg took off to spend with his new daughter, so let's hope he plans on having a very big family," the "Mad Money" host said.
All kidding aside, Facebook had an amazing quarter, and Cramer listed each change that the company made that allowed it to crush earnings.
So, how did Facebook make all of these changes?
One word — mobile. Zuckerberg told his product teams that when they come in for reviews to just come in with mobile. He made it very clear that his mission was for mobile products.
"That is how you get the best new story of the year, if not the decade, which is why Facebook is now the cheapest of the high-growth FANG cohort," Cramer said.
Read MoreCramer: Facebook's the best new story of the year
Plain and simple, Jim Cramer is not happy with the Fed. It was clear to Cramer that the Fed has not listened to anything corporate CEOs and companies have said when it foolishly refused to take a March rate hike off the table on Wednesday.
"All the Fed has done is sacrifice American jobs; they don't know it, yet, because after yesterday's announcement it is clear they haven't been listening to many corporate conference calls," the "Mad Money" host said.
When the Fed raised rates, it caused a spike in the dollar around the globe. That put U.S. international companies at a shocking disadvantage versus where they were before the rate hike.
The "Fast Money" traders revealed their final trades of the day.
Steve Grasso was a buyer of Bank of America.
Brian Kelly was a seller of General Motors.
Karen Finerman was a buyer of Alphabet ahead of next Monday's quarterly earnings report.
Guy Adami was a buyer of Visa.
The Fed should stick to its plan, and raise rates four time this year, Martin Feldstein, former chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, told CNBC's "Power Lunch" on Thursday.
The comments came as the central bank held the line Wednesday, however, while many market watchers consider that the Fed will not raise until May, Feldstein, now a Harvard professor, said the Federal Open Market Committee isn't pointing in that direction.
"I didn't read anything in their statement that made me think that they were walking away form an increase in March," he said.
After the Fed decision on Wednesday, the markets fluctuated before seeing a sharp decline; the three major indexes as of Wednesday's close were on pace for their fourth negative week in the last five. The Dow sank 233 points, the S&P 500 fell 21 and the Nasdaq 100 points. All major indexes were up in late trading Thursday.
Check out the companies making headlines after the bell Thursday:
Shares of Amazon  plummeted in extended trading, after the company posted a big earnings miss for the holiday quarter. The Internet retail giant reported Thursday fourth-quarter net income of $1 per share on $35.75 billion in sales, missing the $1.56 per share on $35.93 billion in revenue expected by a consensus estimate from Thomson Reuters.
Still, there was a bright spot in the report:  Amazon Web Services, which dominates the cloud-computing industry saw its sales rise to $2.41 billion in the quarter, up 69 percent from the previous year and beating estimates.
When Jim Cramer looked at the quarter that Facebook delivered, he wished that Mark Zuckerberg would take more paternity leave.
"One-third of the remarkable quarter Facebook reported last night came during the first month that Zuckerberg took off to spend with his new daughter, so let's hope he plans on having a very big family," the "Mad Money" host said.
All kidding aside, Facebook had an amazing quarter, and Cramer listed each change that the company made that allowed it to crush earnings.
Amgen beat on its fourth-quarter earnings, helped by increased sales of its blockbuster rheumatoid arthritis drug Enbrel and lower costs.
The biopharmaceutical giant reported adjusted earnings per share of $2.61 on $5.54 billion in revenue. Analysts had expected Amgen to post earnings of about $2.29 a share on $5.53 billion in revenue, according to a consensus estimate from Thomson Reuters.
"2015 was an exceptional year for Amgen with six innovative new launches, strong financial performance, continued pipeline advances and improved operating margins driven by our transformation efforts," said Robert Bradway, Amgen's CEO, in a press release.
The company also raised its full-year guidance, with a new EPS range of $10.60 to $11 and $22 billion to $22.5 billion in revenue. It had previously forecast adjusted earnings of $10.35 to $10.75 and $21.7 billion to $22.33 billion in revenue. Amgen's raised guidance reflects U.S. congressional approval of the research and development tax credit and delays in competition from biosimilar versions of some of its products.
Payment services company Visa reported better-than-predicted earnings on Thursday despite headwinds from a strong U.S. dollar.
Visa beat earnings and revenue expectations for its fiscal first quarter of 2016. The company reported fiscal first-quarter earnings of 69 cents per share on revenue of $3.57 billion for the period.
Analysts had expected Visa to report adjusted earnings of about 68 cents a share on $3.62 billion in revenue, according to a consensus estimate from Thomson Reuters.
Shares of Visa were up about 2 percent after the bell.
Total payments volume rose 11 percent to $1.3 trillion on a constant dollar basis. Wall Street analysts had expected an increase in payments volume of 6.1 percent, according to StreetAccount.
U.S. payment volumes, which account for more than half of its total payment volumes, jumped 9.5 percent.
"We continue to be pleased with our financial performance given the uneven global economy and the ongoing negative effects of the strong U.S. dollar. While we continue to see relatively strong payments volume growth, these factors have meaningfully reduced our cross-border volume and revenue growth," said Charlie Scharf, chief executive officer of Visa in a statement.
The market is seeing early signs of an oil price bottom as Saudi Arabia and Russia begin to feel the pressure stemming from the glut, Petrie Partners Chairman Tom Petrie said Thursday.
Oil prices rallied in the last two sessions and surged Thursday on hopes that top oil producer Russia will cooperate with OPEC and the Saudis to strike a deal to tackle oversupply through production cuts.
Saudi Arabia has led OPEC's policy of keeping production steady and defending market share. But Petrie, who has advised the Saudis on oil policy, said Russia and Saudi Arabia now have a common interest in somewhat better prices.
"Both of them are more in need of an improving price picture than I think has generally been recognized," he told CNBC's "Squawk Box." "When you load in their social and security costs, it's quite clear that somewhere around $30 per barrel really begins to pinch them."
"This is the year for the inflection point," he added.
Saudi Arabia is ready to cooperate on output but has not proposed a 5 percent production cut to bolster weak crude prices, according to a report Thursday.
Earlier Thursday, Russian Energy Minister Alexander Novak said the Saudis had floated oil production cuts of up to 5 percent by each country. But a senior Gulf OPEC delegate later said Saudi Arabia has not proposed scaling back output or asked Russia to do the same, The Wall Street Journal reported.
The official told the newspaper that a proposed 5 percent cut was previously floated by Algeria and Venezuela. But he said Saudi Arabia and Persian Gulf allies "are ready to cooperate with others" to bring stability to international oil markets, according to the report.
It backs up earlier skepticism of the production cut proposal. After Novak made the claim, OPEC delegates responded by saying there were no plans to hold talks to cut production, according to Bloomberg News.
Under Armour shares shot up 17 percent Thursday, tracking for their best day in nearly two years, after the company's fourth-quarter results helped allay fears that weakness across the apparel space would creep into its performance.
Following the report, CEO Kevin Plank addressed investor concerns that the nearly $4 billion brand is reaching maturity in North America, outlining a plan to expand its presence in women's and footwear, and at bricks-and-mortar.
Facebook may have topped even the most optimistic of Wall Street expectations for its fourth-quarter revenue and earnings, but the social media giant is in a unique position, CNBC's Jim Cramer said Thursday.
The company reported that it earned 79 cents per share on $5.84 billion in revenue in the quarter. The highest estimates on the Street had called for earnings of 75 cents and revenue of $5.67 billion, according to data from Thomson Reuters.
Looking at the global macroeconomic environment — which has recently given many companies trouble — Facebook's CFO, David Wehner, said on the company's earnings call that Facebook did not see anything in its fourth quarter that indicated "broad-based macro weakness" beyond currency effects.
Based on this statement, Cramer noted that he would rather not have the Federal Reserve take Wehner's comments into consideration, fearing they could prompt a potential rate hike in the near future.
"I want the Fed not to listen to [Facebook's] call," Cramer said on Squawk on the Street.
Facebook's mobile growth is accelerating down an open road. The social-media giant said fourth-quarter revenue from advertisements on smartphones and tablets increased a whopping 81 percent over the prior year, accounting for most of the quarter's $5.8 billion in top-line sales. With more firms getting comfortable touting their wares on digital devices, Mark Zuckerberg's creation has plenty of room to rumble.
The Federal Reserve should coddle the U.S. economy, but central bankers appear poised for more monetary tightening regardless of the lack of realized improvement, Lindsey Piegza said Thursday.
A month after boosting interest rates for the first time in a decade, the Federal Open Market Committee on Wednesday held rates steady but gave no indication it would change course.
The Fed's so-called dot plot indicated in December that Fed officials anticipate raising rates four times this year.
One of last year's top-performing stocks in the S&P 500 has plenty of runway left in 2016, according to S&P Capital IQ analyst Tuna Amobi.
Amazon shares have a shot at rising 15 percent or more over the next 12 months, thanks to a strong holiday season and rapid growth in its web services business, Amobi told CNBC's "Tech Bet" on Thursday in an interview.
The e-commerce giant reports fourth-quarter earnings after the bell Thursday. Amazon shares have dipped more than 9 percent so far in 2016.
"There's valuation concerns after last year's significant run-up in shares, but if you look at price to sales, which is our preferred metric, I think it's still relatively attractive to other Internet retail names," Amobi said.
McDonald's stunning revival due to the success of the all-day breakfast offering has staying power, according to data from a social media tracking firm.
The largest fast food restaurant chain started serving breakfast items at all hours in early October to try to spark growth. It was a huge hit.
The company reported stronger-than-expected December quarter (Q4) U.S. same-store sales growth of 5.7 percent versus the 2.1 percent FactSet consensus because to the initiative. And shares of McDonald's are up nearly 20 percent since the launch.
In a bid to continue the trend, McDonald's is testing adding the McGriddle sandwich to its all-day breakfast menu, according to an Associated Press report Thursday.
Data from LikeFolio, a company that measures "purchase intent" enthusiasm on social media for brands and products owned by public companies, shows a positive sentiment increase from 76 percent to more than 90 percent for McDonald's after the breakfast offering started.
The bull market still has some believers — and not just those investors buying Facebook on Thursday but a chief investment strategist whose firm handles $2.5 trillion in investments.
A brutal start to the trading year and weaker U.S. economic data have many market watchers calling for continued pain in stocks — if not also a looming U.S. recession. But not Charles Schwab chief investment strategist Liz Ann Sonders. She just made maybe the boldest call of all: belief in a continued bull market run and confidence that a recession isn't happening anytime soon.
Sonders said that the tumult this year likely marks a brief interruption to the bull market.
Everyone is watching oil and China and forgetting a very important earnings season is going on, which has revealed trends that may dictate the individual stock winners and losers for the rest of 2016.
CNBC Pro checked in with earnings expert Christine Short of Estimize, a crowd-sourced earnings platform that often accurately predicts profits for companies better than the Street.
We wanted to find out the trading angles that have emerged from these reports. In her own words, here are some of the developing trends:
"FANG stocks, which ended 2015 up an average of 83 percent, seemed to hold the most promise for the new year, and boy have they delivered so far this earnings season. Only Netflix and Facebook have reported at this point, but both easily surpassed Estimize's EPS expectations,   which were above the Wall Street consensus."
Earnings season gets underway for the energy industry's giants on Friday when Chevron reports before the bell. With profits and revenue for so-called "Big Oil" expected to fall significantly from a year ago, investors will have an eye on a few critical factors.
In a field of battered drilling stocks, many analysts have advocated holding the big, integrated oil companies that have both upstream exploration and production and downstream refining operations. But that doesn't mean investors have treated the shares kindly.
Six of the biggest oil companies — Chevron, ExxonMobil, Royal Dutch Shell, ConocoPhillips, BP and Total — collectively shed more than $200 billion in market capitalization last year, according to CNBC analysis of FactSet data.
BlackRock Chairman and CEO Larry Fink said Friday the stock market could fall another 10 percent and oil prices could test $25 per barrel.
"We're in the midst of a real market decline, bordering on a bear market," he told "Squawk Box" on CNBC. "But the speed at which this is happening is just a reassessment of the risk, reassessment of where we're going."
Read MoreBob Doll: I don't see a bear market, but ...
U.S. stock futures were crumbling Friday morning, with Dow futures down nearly 300 points, as oil tanked. The resumption of the decline follows Thursday's sharp increase on Wall Street.
Despite Thursday's gains, the Dow Jones industrial average and the Nasdaq composite remained in correction, a threshold of 10 percent or more to the downside from all-time highs. But the S&P 500 was able to narrowly escape correction territory ahead of Friday's trading.
If the market were to fall another 10 percent, as predicted by Fink, that would put stocks in a bear market, as defined by a decline of 20 percent from new highs.
"I believe there's not enough blood in the street. We'll probably going to have to test the markets lower," he said. "When we test the markets lower, it's going to be a pretty good buying opportunity."
Read MoreBlackRock earnings miss, revenue beats estimates
Fink does not believe stocks will enter what he calls a classic bear market. "I always look at a bear market ... [as] persistent water torture, day after day after day after day. I'm not sure this is what we call a classic bear market.
But by the second half of the year, Fink said, the stock market should be higher. "Over the course of the next six months, we think it's going to feel a lot better."
"There's not that much leverage in the system," he said. "That's why all the analogies to 2008 and 2009 are erroneous. We don't have that type of leverage."
As for oil, prices were plunging Friday morning, with West Texas Intermediate  crude down more than 5 percent. WTI was trading under $30 per barrel, after posting the first significant gains for 2016 in the previous session.
"But my worry about oil prices today I'm sure nine out 10 of your guests talk about oil is going lower now so it's a very heavy trade," Fink said.
Read MoreTHIS will bring oil producers to their knees: Kilduff
These sharp moves in oil and the dismal start of the year for the stock market put negativity across the U.S. economy, he said. "It's] a negativity to every CEO who is looking at his or her stock price [as well as] a negativity related to business and the forward thinking about businesses."
"I actually believe you're going to start seeing more layoffs in the middle part of the first quarter, definitely the second quarter." he warned.
The National Retail Federation said Friday that holiday sales increased 3 percent to $626.1 billion in November and December, falling short of the trade group's forecast for 3.7 percent growth, as unseasonably warm weather and low prices weighed on results.
The news came shortly after the Commerce Department said retail sales posted an unexpected drop in December, falling 0.1 percent from the previous month. Compared with the prior year, December sales rose 2.2 percent, to $448.1 billion, according to the government data.
During the October to December period, total sales rose 1.8 versus the prior year, according to the department. Total sales for all of 2015 increased 2.1 percent, representing their weakest result since 2009, Reuters said.
"Make no mistake about it, this was a tough holiday season for the industry," said NRF President Matthew Shay. "Weather, inventory challenges, advances in consumer technology and the deep discounts that started earlier in the season and that have carried into January presented stiff headwinds."
"Despite these factors, the industry rallied, consumers responded and sales still grew at a healthy rate."
How the industry generated this growth, however, remained a top concern among analysts. They cautioned that profitability will likely take a hit when retailers start rolling out their fourth-quarter earnings results in coming weeks, thanks to aggressive discounts.
"Knowing that the topline growth was fueled by promotions tells us that the real number for us to focus on is ... the individual bottom-line results for retailers, because that's where we're going to see the real profitability numbers," said Steve Barr, PwC's U.S. retail and consumer leader.
BlackRock Chairman and CEO Larry Fink issued a retort Friday to critics of exchange-traded funds, making his case for why ETFs present less risk than mutual funds.
"Let me talk about what ETFs did in the periods of real turmoil," Fink told CNBC's "Squawk Box." He cited the performance of BlackRock's iShares iBoxx $ High Yield Corporate Bond ETF during the rough patch for junk bonds.
"Our high-yield ETF during [that] two-week period of time, we had $20 billion worth of buy and sells ... [and] we had $1 billion in redemptions," he said. "What that tells us is that ETFs provide liquidity to the marketplace. They're replacing what dealers' balance sheets used to do. Dealers used to provide that liquidity."
Read MorePrepare for stocks to fall another 10%: Larry Fink
The lack-of-liquidity argument has been a concern for ETF critics such as Peter Kraus, chairman and CEO of money manager AB, formerly AllianceBernstein.
Earlier in the week, Kraus pointed to the Aug. 24 stock sell-off as an example of when ETFs saw sharp selling, creating a disconnect between the price and the value of the underlying assets.
Read MoreFidelity: 'Stealth bear' market could see 'big' turnaround
Fink on Friday admitted there may be that kind of disconnect at times, but he said ETFs overall are the most liquid part of the capital markets at providing investors exposure to certain markets or as a hedging tool.
ETFs are also safer than mutual funds, he argued. "The ETF throughout the day is matching buy-sells, buy-sells, buy-sells, buy-sells. At the end of the day the mutual fund does, and it's aggregated all at one time. That presents more risk."
A key difference that sets ETFs apart is the ability to buy and sell them like a stock on major financial exchanges, with prices fluctuating during the trading day. Mutual funds are priced once the markets close.
Shares of Citigroup fell sharply Friday despite the company reporting better-than-expected quarterly results.
In late-morning trading, the stock was down more than 7 percent.
The banking giant posted adjusted earnings per share of $1.06 and revenues of $18.64 billion for the previous quarter.
Analysts had expected Citigroup to report earnings of about $1.05 a share on $17.87 billion in revenue, according to a consensus estimate from Thomson Reuters.
"Overall, we had strong performance during 2015. The $17.1 billion we generated in net income was the highest since 2006, when our company was very different in terms of headcount, footprint, mix of businesses and assets," CEO Michael Corbat said in a release.
Friday was a day of big superlatives for the financial markets, with stocks, oil and bonds all posting significant negative milestones.
And that's just the U.S.
Here are all the major indexes around the world and where they stand in terms of bear market or correction territory.
U.S. stock futures spiraled lower Friday morning after Chinese markets sold off once again, but strategist Bob Doll said a bear market is not necessarily in the cards.
"I do not think we'll enter bear market territory, assuming that's defined as 20 percent (decline), but needless to say the only way we can avoid that is if the price of oil stops going down and the dollar stops going up, because those two things were the cause of the decline in earnings expectations all year last year," Nuveen Asset Management's chief equity strategist told CNBC's "Worldwide Exchange."
Crude futures sank more than 5 percent Friday to dip back below $30 per barrel, a level many viewed as improbable just months ago. Unless oil prices recover, fears about credit issues will take hold, said Doll.
The energy industry is estimated to account for about 15 to 20 percent of the high-yield debt market, which has raised fears that a string of defaults could spark contagion.
Consumer sentiment in the U.S. came in better than expected for January, according to a Friday report.
The index of consumer sentiment hit 93.3, data from Surveys of Consumers showed. The reading is also the highest since June, according to Reuters.
Analysts polled by Thomson Reuters expected consumer sentiment to rise slightly, to 93, from the prior month. Consumer sentiment was at 92.6 in December.
"Consumer confidence inched upward for the fourth consecutive month due to more positive expectations for future economic growth. Personal financial prospects have remained largely unchanged during the past year at the most favorable levels since 2007 largely due to trends in inflation rather than wages," Richard Curtin, Surveys of Consumers chief economist, said in a statement.
Despite this week's market turmoil around the world, one of Wall Street's biggest bulls maintains the end of the correction may be near.
On CNBC's "Futures Now" on Thursday, Tony Dwyer, who has an impressive 2,350 price target on the S&P 500, said he is watching four key indicators that prove the market may have found a bottom this week.
"We tend to wait for the market to get oversold enough and as of this week we got into that category," said the chief U.S. market strategist for Canaccord Genuity. "Our key four indicators will close this week in an extreme enough oversold condition that suggests any additional weakness from current levels should be made up very quickly."
Read MoreWall Street needs to take a deep breath and relax: BofA economist
First, Dwyer looks at something called a stochastic indicator — a technical measure that compares the current price of an asset to the highest and lowest price it's traded at over the last 14 weeks. He noted that when the indicator drops below 30, it shows an abundance of selling in the market. "It's now at 24, so barring any kind of incredible ramp it's going to close the week there," he said.
Next, Dwyer noted that the percentage of stocks trading above their 10-day moving average has diminished in the last few sessions, which is a sign that "you have a low that's pretty imminent." The S&P 500 hit a year-to-date intraday low of 1,878.93 on Thursday morning.
The market no longer believes the Fed intends to hike rates in March.
Futures traders at the CME now indicate the central bank will not move on rates until June, following a major selloff in the market Friday morning. The chance of a March hike, above 50 percent just a few days ago, has dwindled to 35 percent.
The next closest month for a hike is now June, which has a 54 percent probability. Earlier in the morning, expectations had put the hike off until July, but that pulled in after New York Fed President William Dudley said in a speech that he still sees rates on a steady trajectory higher.
The decline comes amid a slowing economy, tumbling oil and weakness in Japan. Fed officials, who had indicated in December hopes to raise rates four times in 2016, have been backing off amid the turmoil.
St. Louis Fed President James Bullard said in a speech Thursday morning that the continuing plunge in oil prices could impact the U.S. central bank's decision-making process. Oil is down nearly 18 percent in January alone, pulling the stock market down with it and causing worries that the U.S. economy will enter a prolonged slowdown. The S&P 500 is off nearly 8 percent for the month.
The Federal Open Market Committee in December raised the target a quarter-point for the funds rate it uses to influence broader interest rates. It was the first rate hike in more than nine years, and Fed officials indicated they expect four more hikes this year. Under current trading expectations, there is virtually no chance of that happening.
Read More'Now you know': Why Fed feared a quarter-point hike
In a bleak beginning to the year, only one sector of the S&P 500 is in the green so far in 2016: the utilities.
The S&P 500 has fallen 6 percent year to date, while utilities stocks have risen more than 1 percent. Meanwhile, every other sector has dropped more than 2 percent, with materials leading the way down.
The utilities sector is widely considered a safe haven strategy in times of market turmoil, because of relatively high dividends that make returns more bond-like, and less exposure to economic growth. Amid the 2016 market sell-off, scared investors have begun flocking to utilities stocks, Eddy Elfenbein of the Crossing Wall Street blog said.
"When people get scared, they seek out stability, and that's what's happening to utilities right now," Elfenbein said Thursday on CNBC's "Power Lunch."
Additionally, global growth concerns and market volatility are seen as slowing down the Fed's rate-hiking path, which is causing investors to "come back into utilities and they see a lot of those dividends are good value right now."
Indeed, utilities had been underowned due to worries over talk of multiple rate increases in 2016, Rich Ross of Evercore ISI said Thursday.
Read MoreIn strange twist, the worst stocks are skyrocketing
"It's to be expected as the specter of a stronger employment and stronger economy and interest rates weighed on those utilities," Ross said on "Power Lunch. "But fortunately, thanks to the start to the S&P, we don't have to worry about either one of those right now, which puts utilities right back on the radar screen."
From a technical perspective, Ross said the utilities sector has held up well as all other sectors have broken important technical levels. As long as the utilities sector ETF, XLU, stays above the 150-week moving average and the $42 level, this sector should be a buy for investors, he said.


"At the end of the year, those yields are going to look very attractive in what we consider to be a cyclical bear market decline in the context of an ongoing structural bull market," Ross said.
How does one find bargains in the market?
Eddy Elfenbein of Crossing Wall Street suggests that investors start by examining two factors: a stock's dividend yield, and its amount of debt relative to equity.
Performing such a screen will generate stocks that are attractive in terms of their yield — which may hint at low valuations — but may be less risky than other high-dividend stocks, especially in an environment in which the Federal Reserve is raising interest rates.
"Basically, it gives you companies with fiscal health, and also with good valuations," Elfenbein said Thursday on CNBC's "Trading Nation."
Performing this screen now brings up names such as Johnson & Johnson, BlackRock and Chevron.
Editor's Note: David Katz, president and chief investment officer of Matrix Asset Advisors, shares his top 2016 stock picks for CNBC Pro's Platinum Portfolio.
After one of the most difficult periods for value investing in years, we believe value is poised to have a solid 2016 and should perform very well on a relative basis.
As such our picks are focused on "deeper value" stocks. All of these names got beat up in 2015 and sell at fire sale prices; yet they have strong franchises, good balance sheets and favorable long-term outlooks.
We are equally weighting the following four names:
The Swiss National Bank's (SNB) decision to scrap its cap on the franc against the euro a year ago today shocked markets and sent the country's currency rocketing 30 percent. One year on, the franc is still high, 10 percent up against the euro, and export-focused Switzerland is still feeling the pain.
Looking back at the SNB's shock move James Watson, MD for UK and Europe at ADS Securities, told CNBC "a lot of people were caught in the headlights."
While the Dow Jones industrial average was only in a correction ahead of Friday's trading, the carnage in small cap stocks has been much worse. "You could argue we're in a stealth bear," said Jurrien Timmer, director of global macro research at Fidelity Investments.
"If you look deeper within the market, the Russell 2000 is down [about] 22 percent from its high. That's bear market territory," Timmer told CNBC's "Squawk Box" on Friday. "The markets are very oversold, extremely oversold. As of yesterday, only 9 percent of stocks in the S&P were above their short-term moving average."
Read More Bob Doll: I don't see a bear market, but ...
U.S. stock futures were tanking Friday morning, with Dow futures down more than 300 points, as oil prices dropped more than 5 percent. The renewed selling came a day after stocks and crude bounced higher.
But Timmer sees hope coming later in 2016. "This is going to be a first half of the year versus the second half of the year, where I think we're setting up for a very big 'V' bottom, the way we saw in 2009, only this time in the beaten-down sectors like energy, emerging markets, and commodities."
Timmer's comparison to 2009 referred to the stock bottom made that year after a precipitous drop from the late 2007 highs during the financial crisis. Bouncing off that March 2009 bottom, the bull market since then experienced just three corrections, including the one at the start of this year.
Earlier Friday, BlackRock Chairman and CEO Larry Fink told "Squawk Box" he also expects a second half of the year turnaround, but not before what could be another 10 percent to the downside for stocks. "I believe there's not enough blood in the street. We'll probably going to have to test the markets lower."
Read MorePrepare for stocks to fall another 10%: Larry Fink
Take a look at some of Friday's early movers:
General Electric  — Chinese appliance maker Haier is buying GE's appliance unit for $5.4 billion to boost its global presence. Haier had revenue of $32.6 billion in 2014, making it the world's biggest appliance maker.  The deal also includes a strategic partnership between the two firms in areas such as the Internet, health care and advanced manufacturing.
Intel — the chipmaker reported earnings that beat on both the top and bottom line, but its data center group posted revenue that missed expectations. The firm maintained full-year 2016 guidance of mid-single digit revenue growth, while capital expenditure guidance was lowered by 500 million to $9.5 billion.
Yahoo — Canyon Capital Advisers sent its third letter to the firm in two months, telling Yahoo not to waste more capital and to prioritize a sale of its core business, a portion of its assets, or the entire company, Reuters reported.
Goldman Sachs  — the financial giant said Thursday its fourth-quarter earnings will roughly suffer a $1.5 billion reduction due to a nearly $5.1 billion settlement agreement in principle to resolve the ongoing investigation of the firm's dealings in mortgage-backed securities leading up to the years of the financial crisis.
Citigroup — the firm reported fourth-quarter earnings of $1.06 a share, ex-items, on revenue of $18.64 billion, both topping expectations. The firm said in a release that in constant dollars, 5 percent growth in Citicorp loans was more than offset by continued declines in Citi Holdings, driven primarily by continued reductions in the North America mortgage portfolio and the sale of OneMain Financial, completed during the fourth quarter 2015.
Wells Fargo — the biggest U.S. residential mortgage lender and a major lender to the energy industry posted a 0.8 percent decline in profit for the last quarter of the year as it set aside more funds to cover bad loans. The firm reported fourth-quarter earnings that beat on revenue but missed slightly, with net revenue of $5.71 billion, flat from the previous year, while sales rose 1 percent.
BlackRock — the world's largest asset manager reported earnings of $4.75 a share, five cents below expectations, on revenue of $2.86 billion that topped forecasts. BlackRock Chief Executive Officer Larry Fink told CNBC the miss on earnings was due to expenses and compensations related to deals.
Analog Devices — the electronic parts company and Apple supplier lowered its revenue guidance for its fiscal first quarter 2016 due to "weaker-than-forecasted customer demand in the company's portable consumer business unit." The updated forecasted revenue range is between $745 million to $765 million  compared to the company's previous forecast of $805 million to $855 million.
After being hopeful that stocks found a floor after Thursday's bounce back, traders are now watching to see if the market can even hold onto the previous day's lows as stocks sell off worldwide.
A big drop in crude prices overnight crushed stock prices globally, and any remnants of Thursday's big rally faded. Dow futures were down more than 300 points, and S&P 500 futures were off 1.7 percent as crude tanked more than 5.5 percent. West Texas Intermediate futures were at $29.45 per barrel.
"If stocks don't hold the lows, you could see further downside intensify as people throw in the towel," said Scott Redler of T3Live.com. He said the low of 1,878 from Thursday is the level traders are watching but the key support is 1,867, the low from August 2015. "A trade and close below that could open the door for lower prices faster than some might have thought."
Equities rebounded Thursday as oil firmed, and St. Louis Fed President James Bullard sounded dovish in comments about the economy. Now, the market is watching for comments from New York Fed President William Dudley at 9 a.m. ET, who is a dove.
Bullard said the impact of falling crude may influence monetary policy and make it less likely that inflation gets to the Fed's 2 percent inflation target any time soon. That spurred speculation that the central bank could move slower to hike rates, especially since Bullard is sometimes seen as a hawk.
"We are saying (Thursday's low) is a low, but not the low, so we would be very selective about what stocks to buy for a tradable rally. The tactic is to buy the larger cap growth names. We do expect lower lows over the coming months," said Ari Wald, technical strategist at Oppenheimer Asset Management.
Many think that complacency is a disease that only applies to bull markets, but Jim Cramer said that is not true. It is also possible to be too comfortable in negative beliefs about the market, and totally miss a market bottom.
"Complacently negative investors dismissed yesterday's ugly close as just more of the same horrible action. But opportunistic investors? The ones who sense that stocks are getting too cheap and change their view? They look like real winners, at least for the moment," the "Mad Money" host said.
On Wednesday Cramer confirmed that his charitable trust had purchased stocks in the last hour of trading because the market was so ugly and miserable, it was time to buy. The trust purchased stocks because it had set price levels a long time ago, and those levels were reached.
With the start of earnings season, investors may wonder which companies historically perform the best this time of year.
CNBC Pro used Kensho, a quantitative tool used by hedge funds, and searched for the top S&P 500 stocks during the fourth-quarter earnings season over the last decade. We then weeded out any companies with mixed earnings track records, using data from Bespoke Investment Group.
Here are the five stocks that beat earnings estimates at least 85 percent of the time and on average rise the most.
The markets are off to a rough start this year, but despite the noise, these are three stocks to bet on, says RBC Capital Markets' head of global research, Marc Harris.
Placing Aramark in its transformative bucket, RBC considers that the food service company is resilient in this tough economic environment and the kind of stock that investors would want to own now.
"This is a [earnings-per-share] doubling store over the next couple of years," he said in a conversation with "Power Lunch." "This is a company that only six months ago hardly had technology managing 200,000-plus employees in their scheduling."
Jim Cramer considers it his job to make sure that investors don't let Thursday's market bounce lure them into value traps. He sees a ton of value-trap stocks lingering out there, and they could be incredibly dangerous.
A value trap is a stock that appears to be cheap because it has a low price-to-earnings multiple but is deceiving because the actual earnings estimates are too high. So, when the numbers come down, the stock gets crushed.
"This can be a difficult concept for people, since the price-to-earnings multiple or P/E ratio, is the No. 1 metric we use to value stocks and determine whether they are cheap or expensive," the "Mad Money" host said.
Many use the P/E ratio as a tool to figure out what the market is willing to pay for a company's future earnings. Stock prices can vary widely, so the P/E ratio can be considered an apples-to-apples comparison.
To calculate the P/E ratio, investors can divide the price-per-share of the stock by the earnings-per-share.
But be careful.
JPMorgan said Thursday it is setting aside more money to cover bad loans made to energy and mining companies.
In its quarterly earnings report, the bank said it set aside $1.3 billion, or 49 percent more, year over year, for credit loss provisions, "driven by downgrades, including $124 million in the oil & gas portfolio and $35 million in metals/mining." Credit costs, driven by the oil and gas industry, increased as well, the bank said.
In spite of this, JPMorgan executives appeared to play down concern.
"Our energy book isn't that large," CEO Jamie Dimon said on the bank's earnings call with analysts. "We're not forecasting a recession; we think the U.S. economy looks pretty good at this point."
Not everyone on Wall Street is optimistic that distress is only being felt by companies dependent on commodities.
Some traders are avoiding the energy space after WTI crude broke below $30 on Tuesday, but one analyst believes that the banks are actually insulated from the underperformance of the energy space.
Top banking analyst Mike Mayo of CLSA said on CNBC's "Fast Money Halftime Report" that he doesn't think that banks have significant exposure to the problems in energy.
"Non-banks have originated only a quarter of [large oil-and-gas loans], but have two-thirds of the criticized assets," Mayo said. "The problems in oil and gas are outside of the banking industry. In this case, don't blame the banks."
Check out the companies making headlines after the bell Thursday.
Intel shares fell in extended trading, even though the tech giant topped analysts' expectations in its earnings announcement. The company posted fiscal fourth-quarter earnings of 74 cents per share on $14.9 billion in revenue. Analysts expected Intel to post earnings of 63 cents per share on $14.8 billion in revenue, according to a consensus estimate from Thomson Reuters. "Our results for the fourth quarter marked a strong finish to the year and were consistent with expectations," said Intel CEO Brian Krzanich in a statement.
WebMD dipped slightly after the bell. Shares of the online health-care information website hit a new 52-week high on Thursday before falling on takeover talk denial. "In light of recent news reports, the company is reporting that it is not currently in any negotiations to be acquired," WebMD said in a statement.
It's the day after the Powerball lottery. The joke on trading desks all week is that Wall Street has been selling stocks to play the lottery.
Now the lottery is over, and we are rallying. This makes sense, no?
Coming into work, the new joke was that we were rallying but it would all fall apart by midday, because that is all we do anymore  Rally at the open, fall apart midday.
It hasn't happened today, thanks to a rally in oil and a set of indicators that have been in oversold territory for days on end, including a high put/call ratio, the VIX in backwardation (the front month contracts are higher priced than contracts further out), and horrible sentiment from rank-and-file traders (the American Association of Individual Investors weekly sentiment indicator hit an 11-year low this week).
So is this a bottom? I doubt it. Traders are grappling with big issues that they can't quite get their heads around. They want:
1) China currency stability
2) Oil stability
3) Good guidance on earnings
4) the Fed to lower its rate hike expectations.
Then there's the biggest head-banger of all:  how much is the global economy decelerating?
I am not expecting all these issues to be resolved in the next month, or that stocks can't find a bottom until everything on this list is cured.
But I am saying we haven't fallen enough to create the impression that stocks are a bargain.
Just think about it:  right now, we are in the middle of a garden variety correction. The S&P 500 is roughly 10 percent off its historic high it hit in the middle of last year.
But remember, the S&P 5000 went from 700 in 2009 to 2,100 in 2015. Now it's at roughly 1,900.
We're going to rally for seven years and then just get away with a garden-variety 10 percent correction? It doesn't seem enough.
That's why the rally seems tentative.   No one is going all in, because there is still too much downside risk.
But we are making progress. Chinese authorities getting control of the currency would be a huge help.  Oil holding at $30 would be big. And JPMorgan decent earnings was a big help (S&P futures rallied pre-open when their report came out).
And the Fed?  St. Louis Fed President James Bullard said the continuing drop in oil had caused a "worrisome" drop in inflation that may make further rate hikes hard to justify.
THAT is a big help.
Worst to first.
From the beginning of the year through Wednesday's close, shares of Williams and Freeport-McMoRan  fell 47 percent and 45 percent, respectively, making them the worst-performing S&P 500 components by far.
On Thursday, Williams led the index with a 21 percent rally, as Freeport nipped at its heels with a 9 percent rise.
Crude oil's more than 3 percent bounce no doubt contributed to the change in fortunes, as both companies are highly exposed to energy prices.
But there appears to be more to it than that.
An interesting dynamic is unfolding whereby the worse a stock was hit in the year through Wednesday's close, the better it did as the market bounced.
The below chart — which compares performance in the first eight days of trading (on the vertical axis) to performance on Thursday (on the horizontal axis) for all the stocks in the S&P 500 (which each get a dot) — shows the strength of that inverse relationship.
Editor's Note: Jeffrey A. Hirsch is editor-in-chief of the "Stock Trader's Almanac," which popularized the "sell in May" market strategy.
This has been the worst start to a year on record, triggering bearish warning signs on several of our New Year seasonal indicators.
There have been few places to hide, barely any respite and little solace. With our "Santa Claus Rally" and "First Five Days Early Warning System" in the red and the Dow's December closing low violated, a positive reading from our full-month January Barometer would go a long way in improving the prospects for the year.
But there is no doubt about it, the market is on shaky ground, and the odds of further downside are increasing.
Apart from fears over a slowdown in China, an oil meltdown and global violence and turmoil, President Barack Obama's rhetoric in his final State of the Union Address did little to quell investors' concerns; in fact they appear to have fanned the flames.
About the only positive catalyst, from a contrary perspective that is, is increased pessimistic sentiment and bearish market calls up and down Wall Street.
Way back in early June 2015, when I put the Stock Trader's Almanac 2016 to bed and sent it off to the publisher, I warned that my outlook for 2016 was less than sanguine and that there was a low probability for substantial gains in 2016.
When it comes to the corporate earnings recession, the damage is spreading well beyond the energy sector.
Fourth-quarter earnings would be negative even without counting energy, the first time that's happened since S&P 500 profits turned negative in 2015, according to the latest numbers from S&P Capital IQ. The projection outside of energy is barely negative, at -0.1 percent, but still represents a substantial landmark.
The 40 companies that make up the energy sector are collectively expected to report a 70.4 percent earnings decline from the same period a year ago, S&P Capital IQ estimates show. That will be the main driver behind a dismal final three months in 2015 that are expected to show a decline of 6.1 percent for the full index.
Read More Oil prices could spike 50% higher in 2016: Analyst
But the damage is far from limited to energy.
In fact, seven of the 10 sectors that make up the S&P 500 now are expected to show declines. The biggest drops aside from energy are materials, information technology and consumer staples:
Investors are selling GoPro just as enthusiastically as they once bought it.
Thursday, the stock — once a Wall Street darling — nosedived to an all-time low. It's now down some 90 percent from its record high of $93.85 in October 2014.
With Intel scheduled to report fourth-quarter earnings after the bell Thursday, options traders are expecting to see a notable reaction in the tech giant's stock price.
On Wednesday, the options market implied a 4.5 percent one-day move for Intel, based on January options that expire Friday. That's much larger than the stock's average post-earnings move of 2 percent over the past four quarters.
Traders can find the magnitude of expected moves by examining options prices. Specifically, the implied move is considered to be the price of simultaneously buying a call option and a put options that are both "at the money," which would be a way to make an outright bet on a move higher or lower for the stock.
Markets are currently mired in a "sell the rally" mindset, and that sentiment will persist until investors get clarity on China's monetary policy and energy prices, Art Hogan, chief market strategist at Wunderlich Securities said Thursday.
"If we were to get either one of those things or both, or some hint towards either one of those things, I think the market can do a whole lot better," he told CNBC's "Squawk on the Street." That clarity could come by the end of the month or early in February, he added.
China's markets have twice been halted in recent weeks amid volatile trade as the People's Bank of China devalues the country's currency and regulators seek to roll back measures put in place to stem last summer's massive stock sell-off. The concern, said Hogan, is that China will commit a policy mistake or get too aggressive in its currency devaluation.
At the same time, crude prices have fallen to 12-year lows, with both U.S. crude and Brent briefly breaking below $30 a barrel, a level seen by many as possible but implausible just months ago.
Shares of Best Buy  tumbled more than 10 percent Thursday, after the electronics retailer reported holiday sales results that missed Wall Street's expectations and lowered its forecast for fourth-quarter revenue.
But analysts said the stock's dip to $26 represents a buying opportunity for investors, as its long-term recovery remains in tact. What's more, although Best Buy's U.S. holiday sales declined 0.8 percent, they easily outperformed broader industry trends reported by The NPD Group, implying the retailer gained market share during the period.
For anyone holding a newspaper Thursday morning, it won't take long to find worrisome headlines surrounding the markets. The front page of The New York Times, which doesn't typically feature financial news above the fold, read "U.S. Stocks Continue Slide on Fears of Slowdown." Paras Anand, head of European equities at Fidelity Worldwide Investment, said that this near-term negativity is overshadowing global growth.
"When it's in the press, it's in the price," Anand told CNBC's "Worldwide Exchange" on Thursday. "It's important to take a step back from some of these negative headlines and think about what could be some of the more positive drivers over the medium term."
Read More2016 rout NOT end of stock bull market: Tom Lee
The market is certainly reacting to concerns about the global economy: the Dow Jones industrial average lost more than 350 points Wednesday, the S&P 500 ended below 1,900 for the first time since September, and the Nasdaq composite saw its worst day since the so-called August flash crash. Crude also fell below $30 a barrel for the first time since 2003. But Anand said that oil-importing countries, such as the U.K., stand to benefit from low crude prices that have shaken the markets.
"As the costs of energy and all of these inputs come down, that is a form of tax cut or income growth for the average consumer in the developed markets," Anand said. "Obviously that takes some time to feed through but I see that as being part of the positive story over the medium term."
Another positive story, according to Anand, is economic development, especially in the eurozone. "I think that what interests me, and us as investors, is that more positive scenarios like the development of the economy in the U.S., in Europe, in the U.K., across the developed world, are being crowded out by near-term negative factors." This development is often reflected in factory activity and consumer confidence, and by those measurements, the global economy looks to be in the phase of gradual recovery, he said.
Read MoreS&P 500 could go to 1,600: Merrill strategist
A key driver for a "positive growth surprise" is normalizing monetary policy in the EU, said Anand, who's forecasting strong performance from economies that prompted reform in the wake of sovereign crises. Spain and Ireland, for example, have rebounded, and Germany had positive development across its economy last year.
His team at Fidelity is also upbeat on earnings. "This year we'll start to potentially end up with a more positive perspective on corporate earnings growth," Anand said. While market averages have made progress, aggregate corporate earnings have not, he said. "In a sense, the market has made progress in anticipation of recovery in corporate earnings."
Concerns about macroeconomic outlook tend to push corporate earnings recovery out of the picture, according to Anand. "As a result of that, I do think that some of the reaction in the short-term has been quite overdone."
The ever-declining U.S. oil rig count should really start to take a bite out of the oversupply problem this year, KLR Group's John Gerdes said Thursday, predicting depressed crude prices could soon begin to move sharply higher.
Gerdes sees West Texas Intermediate crude hitting $47 per barrel in 2016, basically a 50 percent increase from current levels of about $31. Looking out to 2018, he sees prices at $80 to $85 per barrel.
"What this industry will need is more of an $80 to $80-plus environment to drive some modest degree of return. And the mechanisms for that are being set in motion with these lower levels of activity to suggest the supply adjustments should progress," Gerdes told CNBC's "Squawk Box."
Read More Bullard: Oil drop has implications for Fed action
Oil prices were bouncing off 12-year lows in early action Thursday. U.S. crude was trading at a rare premium to the global benchmark Brent, which has been weighed down by the potential for a flood of supply from Iran with sanctions relief possibly coming as early as Friday.
"These supply adjustments take many, many quarters. They take years. We're one year into a three-year adjustment process," said Gerdes, head of research for his investment bank, which is focused on the natural resources sector.
"The U.S. industry is effectively uneconomic at sub-$60 [per barrel] and we're sitting at $30," he said.
Read More Saudis failing to drown US with oil: Harold Hamm
But the production cuts by American energy companies are setting up an overcorrection of the system in the "other direction" that's needed to flip the glut script, he added. "We do think with a reasonable probability the basing effect does happen here in the first half of the year."
Once supply and demand balances, he said, it's not that easy to turn the crude spigots back on. "When you redeploy capital, that lag effect is in place again going the other direction."
That lag should produce an environment in which prices could move higher into next year and into 2018, Gerdes said.
Investors should carefully watch JPMorgan Chase's stock following the release of its latest quarterly report, CNBC's Jim Cramer  said Thursday.
The U.S. banking giant posted better-than-expected revenue and earnings per share for the fourth quarter amid substantial growth in loans, as well as a lighter balance sheet.
The U.S. stock market is off to its worst start to a year ever and now the S&P 500 is officially in correction territory, down more than 11 percent from its record price last May.
But there have been some winners in 2016. We highlight them and the biggest losers below.
Among the index components, shares of Flir Systems, which designs thermal imaging products, have taken the lead and are bucking the trend, up double digits. Stocks like Macy's and Time Warner are also nearly up that much this year as well.
After the Dow, S&P 500 and Nasdaq all closed in correction territory, one widely followed investor says it's about to get a lot worse.
"If you look at S&P earnings, for example, they have not been at these kinds of levels ever outside of a recession," Raoul Pal, publisher of the Global Macro Investor, told CNBC's "Fast Money" traders after Wednesday's closing bell. "There are so many indicators that we're in a recession. You see global growth and it's suggesting that the market should go lower and it's based on the fact that the global economy is getting worse."
And if the U.S. is actually in the recession that Raoul believes is true, he has two big predictions.
Mergers between U.S. banks could hit the highest level in a decade this year, Rafferty Capital's Richard Bove told CNBC on Thursday.
The veteran bank analyst said the Federal Reserve opened the door to mergers and acquisition activity last year when it allowed BB&T Corporation to purchase both Susquehanna and Bank of Kentucky. The bank is also set to purchase National Penn Bancshares in 2016 for approximately $1.8 billion.
Check out which companies are making headlines before the bell:
JPMorgan Chase — The bank earned $1.32 per share for the fourth quarter, 7 cents above estimates, while revenue beat forecasts as well. JPM did see an oil-related surge in reserve increases, but its results were helped by solid results in areas like credit demand.
Fiat Chrysler — The shares are under pressure after Automotive News reported that two Chicago dealerships sued the automaker for allegedly inflating its US sales figures. Trading in the shares were suspended in Milan after falling 8 percent there.
Best Buy — The electronics retailer said holiday same-store sales fell 1.2 percent due to softer-than-expected mobile phone sales. However, the company also said other areas, like home theater and appliances, performed well.
Chipotle Mexican Grill — CLSA upgraded the stock to "buy" from "outperform," following the restaurant chain's presentation at an analyst conference. Management is said to be confident that November's widely publicized E. coli cases were the extent of the outbreak.
GoPro — The high definition camera maker's shares are under pressure after the company gave weaker-than-expected fourth quarter guidance and said it would cut 7 percent of its workforce.
Goldman Sachs — Goldman is planning to cut up to 10 percent of its fixed-income unit jobs this quarter, according to The Wall Street Journal.  However, a source told CNBC this is "speculation" and pointed out that the firm annually cuts at least 5 percent of its low performers.
US Bancorp — Baird upgraded the bank's shares to "outperform" from "neutral," saying it is one of the highest quality banks and well positioned to withstand a low growth economic environment.
Extra Space Storage — The company will replace insurer Chubb in the S&P 500 after ACE's deal to acquire Chubb is completed Thursday. Extra Space Storage is a real estate investment trust that owns storage properties.
Pfizer — The drugmaker may sell the infusion pump business that it acquired when it bought Hospira for $15 billion in September, according to a Bloomberg report. The deal could fetch about $2 billion.
Boeing — Boeing reached a tentative six-year deal with its engineering union, coming well ahead of an October contract deadline for more than 20,000 workers.
Ambac — The bond insurer's largest shareholders want Chief Executive Officer Nader Tavakoli to step down, according to Reuters. The report said they are upset with delays by the bond insurer in paying claims.
WebMD — WebMD is reportedly exploring a sale of all or part of its business, according to the Financial Times. The online health-care information website operator is said to be in talks with Walgreens Boots Alliance and UnitedHealth Group about a potential sale.
Amazon.com — The online retail giant is losing about 8.3 percent of its revenue in state taxes, according to a study published in The Washington Post.
Spirit Airlines — JPMorgan Chase began coverage on the discount airline with an "overweight" rating, saying the shares could be poised for a rise despite a challenging environment. JPM points to valuation after the recent route in Spirit shares, as well as the positive influence stemming from the company's CEO transition.
U.S. stocks plunged Wednesday with the selling accelerating after the S&P 500 broke through a key level technical analysts were watching as support.
With this level gone, watch out below, said these market analysts, who solely study charts to make buying and selling decisions.
"The S&P 500 broke below 1,900 and that triggered a kind of trapdoor effect," Art Cashin, director of floor operations at the NYSE for UBS Financial Services, said on CNBC in reference to the market's drop late Wednesday.
The S&P 500 last traded at 1,900 in early October of last year.
So when will the selling stop? Chart analysts gave us the next levels to watch.
As fourth-quarter earnings season gets underway with JPMorgan on Thursday, traders are watching to see if stocks can hang on to last year's low.
JPMorgan stock was higher after it rolled out better-than-expected earnings ahead of the bell Thursday, as the first big blue chip of the reporting season. Intel is next with its post-market report Thursday afternoon.
Expectations are low for corporate profits this quarter, with analysts projecting a consensus 4.7 percent decline for S&P 500 profits, according to Thomson Reuters.
Volatile markets can leave investors seriously on edge, especially as they get closer to retirement, and those who are already retired may be even more worried about losing money — and may start to question their strategy.
The American College recently surveyed financial professionals to determine how their clients reacted to a significant drop in the Dow Jones Industrial Average and found that the majority of retirees show heightened concern. Three out of five respondents said retired clients have been more apt to reach out to them due to recent market volatility and more than half of their clients admit they are more concerned about retirement security than they were last year.
Stocks may be off to their worst-ever start to a new year, but the correction does not show signs of the end of the six-year-plus bull market, said Tom Lee, co-founder of boutique equity research firm Fundstrat Global Advisors.
"You have to respect what the market's message is: ... Uncertain people are stepping back and risk is coming out. And we're deflating," he told CNBC's "Squawk Box" on Thursday. "[But] I would be surprised if this is the end of the bull market here."
Read MoreS&P 500 could go to 1,600: Merrill strategist
With Wednesday's severe slide, the Dow Jones industrial average, the S&P 500 index, and the Nasdaq composite were in correction territory. The Dow and S&P were on pace for their biggest monthly drops since May 2010, while the Nasdaq could suffer its worst monthly slide since November 2008.
But Lee, a longtime stock bull, remains undeterred. "This is maybe more like a 1982 moment, which means it's more the front end of a longer bull market, not the end of an existing bull market."
The S&P 500 sank below the key level of 1,900 level on Wednesday, with traders looking for support at 1,867, said Stephen Suttmeier, chief equity technical strategist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch Global Research.
If the S&P breaches 1,867 then the index could be headed to the 1,600 level, he told "Squawk Box" in an earlier interview Thursday.
Much to the Federal Reserve's dismay, the benchmark 10-year Treasury yield is headed back toward the key 2 percent level as investors flee the stock market roller coaster for the safety of bonds.
The yield hit a low of 2.042 percent Wednesday, its lowest level since Oct. 27.
The S&P 500 sank below the key level of 1,900, and traders now have their eyes on the 1,867 support level.
But we could very well be heading for 1,600, said Stephen Suttmeier, chief equity technical strategist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch Global Research.
"What happens if we start to lose 1,867? You can basically say if we do that we may actually have a top in place that's formed over last year," he told CNBC's "Squawk Box."
"If that happens, what does that count to? It counts to about 1,600. That's what it counts to on the charts," he said. "If you take the chart pattern there and project it down, that's the risk."
He noted that some market signals are indeed flashing signs of a top, and overhang is apparent in indicators of breadth, volume, trend, and high yield.
Jim Cramer has a memo to everyone in America who is salivating over winning $1.5 billion in the Powerball lottery — don't bother playing.
"I am going to win, and I'm not just saying that because I have delusions of grandeur, although that is certainly part of it," the "Mad Money" host said.
In fact, Cramer has a higher level of confidence in the numbers he picked for the lottery than he does with any oil stock that sells below $10.
So, if Cramer wins, what would he do with the money?
The market is undergoing a classic growth scare and people are worried about forward economic expansion, Morgan Stanley's chief U.S. equity strategist said Wednesday.
"I think it's an opportunity," Adam Parker said in an interview with CNBC's "Closing Bell." "I actually think the economy is fine here in the U.S."
Despite being bullish on the economy, Morgan Stanley recently downgraded the tech sector from "market weight" to "underweight." The firm cut its exposure to Apple in half.
So far in 2016, the U.S. stock market has been joined at the hip with the Chinese stock market. And Jim Cramer thinks the only way to understand how China has become so important is by understanding how the U.S. got into this situation in the first place.
"This foreign index has become the tail that wags the dog of the U.S. stock market; so, how on Earth did we get here?" the "Mad Money" host asked.
From 2010 to 2013, while U.S. stocks were rebounding, the Chinese stock market declined to about 2,100 from 3,100. Everything changed in April 2014, when the Communist Party announced the Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Connect program that went into effect that November.
Warren Buffett is finding something to buy amid the oil market wreckage.
In the days before crude fell below $30 for the first time in 12 years, Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway was picking up some shares of oil giant Phillips 66 as that stock hit three-month lows.
JPMorgan Funds expects S&P 500 earnings to improve this year, but global market strategist Gabriela Santos said Wednesday they won't rise as much as projections imply.
The S&P is mired in a three-quarter revenue recession, and earnings were negative for the third quarter and are expected to come in negative for last quarter. S&P Capital IQ sees earnings for the fourth quarter falling 5.7 percent from the year ago period.
Where U.S. stocks end 2016 will largely depend on whether or not earnings growth comes through, said Santos. The S&P broke a three-year winning streak in 2015, ending down 0.7 percent.
"Predictions right now we think are a bit lofty," she told CNBC's "Squawk Box," S&P projected earnings of $126 per share for 2016 imply earnings growth of 18 percent, according to Santos.
"We would say it's more reasonable to expect a growth of much closer to 10 percent," putting total S&P EPS at $120 per share would make more sense, she added.
At that point the S&P multiple can expand to about 17 times earnings, which Santos called, "really not a very lofty expansion."
A plunge in Chinese stocks has been blamed for the awful beginning to the year that U.S. stocks have suffered. And while many have protested that this is an overreaction, given that Chinese stocks haven't tended to enjoy a tight relationship with American equities, those people appear to be living in the past.
To be sure, it is true that over the past five years, there has been almost no relationship between the S&P 500 and the Shanghai composite. Over the past five years, the correlation between the weekly moves made by the two indexes is 0.05 — essentially nothing. Compare that to the 0.79 correlation between the S&P and the German DAX index, or 0.61 between the S&P and Japan's Nikkei. (Recall that correlations run from -1 to 1, with 0 indicating no relationship, 1 expressing perfect correlation, and -1 reflecting exact opposition.)
But something strange has happened on the way to U.S.-Chinese indifference.
Starting with the August crash in Chinese markets after that country's currency devaluation, the correlation between the S&P and the Shanghai composite has risen precipitously. Since then, the relationship has simply gotten tighter and tighter — and in 2016, the one-year correlation of weekly moves has reached fresh heights.
I have often used the phrase "earnings recession" to describe the three consecutive quarters of negative earnings growth we have seen:
S&P 500 Earnings:Q2 2015:                    -0.7%Q3 2015:                   -1.5%Q4 2015 (est.)          -5.5%Source:  Factset
But after looking at very early numbers for earnings in the fourth quarter, I've decided I am more concerned about a "revenue recession."
Revenues:Q1 2015:                    -2.9%Q2 2015:                    -3.3%Q3 2015:                    -3.9%Q4 2015                      -3.3%Source:  Factset
Why am I more concerned about revenues?  Because the trend is implying that global business activity is deteriorating.
With earnings, we can get all sorts of financial engineering, like cost cutting, or buybacks.
But consistent lack of topline growth — which we are seeing — really calls into question the sustainability of earnings growth.
Here's what worries me:  so far, 23 S&P 500 companies have reported earnings for the fourth quarter.  Of the 23, about 75 percent have beat on the bottom line.
That's not what worries me.  What worries me is that 19 of the 23 have missed on revenue growth, according to Earnings Scout.
Strange, no?  Three-quarters beat on bottom line, but the same portion misses on topline.
That's disappointing.  And we are not talking about a lot of industrials and energy names that have reported.  We are talking consumer names.  Nike.  Bed Bath and Beyond. Walgreen.  Autozone.  Costco.  Federal Express. General Mills.
These companies have two problems: they are multinational — they get much of their revenues overseas, so the global slowdown is really affecting them. And second, the strong dollar is really hurting them. I will be doing a lot of reports around the impact of that dollar on these company's earnings.
Check out the companies making headlines after the bell Wednesday.
GoPro plunged as much as 28 percent in after-hours trading following a halt.The struggling wearable-camera maker trimmed its guidance and announced it would cut its workforce by about 7 percent. GoPro sees fourth-quarter and full-year 2015 sales of $435 million and $1.6 billion, respectively. Analysts had expected fourth-quarter revenue of $512 million, according to a consensus estimate from Thomson Reuters.
Shares of Medtronic ticked up in after-hours trading. The medical device maker recently said it planned to buy back shares worth up to $5 billion over the next couple of years. Medtronic also raised the lower end of its full-year adjusted earnings forecast range to $4.36 per share from $4.33, keeping the higher end unchanged at $4.40.
It will take more than strong demand from China to curb oil's massive slide.
China's crude oil imports hit a record 7.82 million barrels a day in December, customs data showed, totaling 33.19 million tons, up 21.4 percent on the month and 9.3 percent on the year. That's well above earlier estimates by Thomson Reuters Oil Research and Forecasts.
In a CNBC Pro exclusive interview from JPMorgan's Annual Healthcare Conference in San Francisco, Sage Therapeutics CEO Jeff Jonas shared his views on the recent sell-off in biotech stocks.
"I think investors are still pretty optimistic about the overall space and the pace of innovation in medicine," said Jonas, explaining that as companies continue to innovate, patients will benefit along with the companies developing those treatments.
Jonas, who's an M.D., also spoke about the various catalysts and products for Sage Therapeutics, particularly a drug that aims to treat severe seizures.
Can't see the video? Here's how to become a CNBC Pro subscriber.
Trading below tangible book value was once considered a harbinger of doom for banks, even the stock market itself. Now, it could instead spell trouble for banks' management teams.
A group of U.S banks including Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley and Bank of America saw shares drop by at least 8 percent to begin this year. Each bank also trades below tangible book value, or the net value of the company less intangible assets and goodwill.
With the stocks' value dipping beneath book value and earnings reports from U.S. banks due this week and next, underperforming banks could see activist investors clamoring for leadership changes or for spinouts at firms posting disappointing returns.
"If valuations stay depressed as they are it creates incentive for banks to unlock value," CLSA banks analyst Mike Mayo said. "Shareholders have every right to push for a credible plan."
(The following is a CNBC Pro free preview. Click here to subscribe.)
The popular FANG basket of stocks could be out of gas after stellar returns last year — and that could be troublesome for the stock market.
FANG is an acronym created by Jim Cramer for a basket of top-performing technology stocks — Facebook, Amazon.com, Netflix and Alphabet (formerly known as Google). The S&P 500 would have been decidedly more negative for 2015 if it were not for these four stocks.
But FANG giveth and FANG taketh away.
Forget oil stocks, all four FANG stocks are down more than 3 percent this year, and that's why the market is faltering, statistics show. The bull market has lost its leader.
Using Kensho, a quantitative tool used by hedge funds, CNBC Pro looked at what the market does when FANG stocks trade down on any given trading day over the last three years.
Piper Jaffray is back and more bullish than ever.
The Wall Street forecasting firm, which has been in front of most peers when it comes to talking up the bull market, again is diverging from the pack when interpreting what the year's abysmal start means. Rather than retrenching and recalibrating, Piper Jaffray is reiterating its call that the S&P 500 will rally strongly.
For the full year, the firm expects the stock market index to close at 2,350, a gain of more than 21 percent from Wednesday's opening, according to a report that managing director Craig Johnson and research analyst Hima Reddy prepared for clients.
Read MoreReturns on this investment could hit 65-year low
Getting there won't be easy, the duo concedes, opening their report with the greeting, "Welcome to gloom, doom and the great shakeout of 2016."
Commodity stocks are mostly down again Wednesday. There has been much discussion about how stocks like Freeport McMoran could continue to drop. It's down another 8 percent mid-morning after dropping 4 percent on Tuesday.
The simple answer is they may have great assets but they also have huge amounts of debt. Traders and analysts are now making worst-case assumptions, in this case that "lower for longer" prices in oil and copper will make it increasingly difficult to pay the debt and leave any residual value for shareholders.
In Freeport's case, the company has about $20.7 billion in debt, cash flow (EBIDTA) of about $4.1 billion for 2015, and interest expenses of about $600 million.
For the moment, the cash flow can cover the interest expense, but as oil prices keep dropping it gets tougher.
However, they are burning a lot of cash due to very high capital requirements, so even if prices stay where they are, it's still going to be tough. Bottom line: They need a recovery in commodity prices!
The circumstances in oil have CNBC's Jim Cramer baffled.
"I'm just gripped by this oil situation because it's so nutty," Cramer said Wednesday on "Squawk on the Street." "If oil is trading at $33-$34, I think you'd see the retailers and restaurants lead the market. That's completely insane, but it is what has been happening."
One of the year's big surprises will be that junk bonds will "actually have decent returns," Goldman Sachs bond specialist Jonathan Beinner said Wednesday.
Last year, the iShares iBoxx $ High Yield Corporate Bond ETF (HYG), a reflection of the junk bond market, lost 11.6 percent, compared with the fractional drop for the S&P 500 in 2015. But so far this year, the reverse has been true, with the HYG off almost 1.4 percent as of Tuesday's close to the S&P's more than 5 percent decline.
Beinner, chief investment officer at Goldman Sachs Asset Management, told CNBC's "Squawk Box" he does see the high-yield default climbing to a range of 5 to 5.5 percent this year, versus about 3.2 percent in 2015.
"About two-thirds of that is expected to come from the energy sector," he said. "There's clearly lots of risk in that sector. But there's 85 percent of the high-yield market that isn't exposed to commodities, and is actually priced around an 8 percent yield."
The default rates outside energy are expected to hold steady at around 2 percent this year, predicted Beinner, also his firm's co-head of Global Fixed Income and Liquidity Management. The firm oversees and advises on more than $1 trillion.
Concerns over the slowdown in China's economy and the sharp drop in oil prices will also continue to be major themes for investors this year, Beinner said. "[But] we do think the U.S. economy can withstand these shocks," leading to the Federal Reserve to continue to increase interest rates this year, he added. The Fed hiked rates in December for the first time in more than nine years.
Read More'Now you know': Why the Fed feared a quarter-point hike
"I think they really do believe they'll do four moves this year. That's probably a reasonably good outcome, and a relatively high probability," Beinner said. But he acknowledged central bankers would need be "mostly right" on their economic forecasts for above-trend growth and continued improvements in the job market. "[But] inflation is not going to hit the target this year," he said, referring to the Fed's desire to see price pressures increase to 2 percent.
As for the dollar, Beinner does not see another big leg up this year, even with the predicted rate hikes. "The U.S. economy is actually a relatively closed economy. But when you have the trade-weighted dollar going up 25 percent that has real economic impact. And if it wasn't for that, we'd already be a much higher interest rates," he said.
Stocks regained footing this week after a massive global sell-off had investors hitting the panic button. But amid all the negativity, one economist says all Wall Street needs to do is "take a deep breath and relax."
On CNBC's "Futures Now," Bank of America Merrill Lynch's Ethan Harris said that rather than fret over uncertainty in China, investors should look at the market for what it really is: overdone.
"I think that the market is overwhelmed with too many blindside hits," Harris said Tuesday. "You had geopolitical concerns around the Middle East and North Korea, you had weakness in the equity market and currency market in China, you had a little bit of soft data, and if you put it all together it was just a little bit too much for the equity market."
Read More'Now you know': Why the Fed feared a quarter-point hike
With the average stock in the S&P 500 down 20 percent from its highs, Jim Cramer sees the backdrop of the stock market becoming more negative by the day. That means his investment strategy must change with the environment.
Investors are gripped by the tremendous deflation of commodities while battling the fear of the Fed raising rates, and the Chinese market changing from day-to-day. This was why Cramer prepared his checklist of events that must occur in order for the market to get out of its current funk.
"I'm just saying that this is an unforgiving market, and in an unforgiving market, you have to expect that things will go wrong, not right," the "Mad Money" host said.
On Tuesday, there were two stocks on Cramer's mind that he regrets recommending: Alcoa and Fitbit.
Check out which companies are making headlines before the bell:
Microsoft — The stock was upgraded to "overweight" from "equal-weight" at Morgan Stanley. A strong and growing position in the cloud market is among the factors cited.
American Express  — Goldman Sachs downgraded Amex shares to "neutral" from "buy," saying the financial giant's results would remain volatile and that management appears unwilling to take strategic actions that would unlock more value.
CSX — The railroad company reported fourth quarter profit of 48 cents per share, two cents above estimates. However, revenue fell below forecasts on lower shipment volumes, and CSX said a weak global economy and other factors would hurt its 2016 results.
Salesforce.com  — Brean Capital initiated coverage on the business software maker with a "buy" rating, noting that its offerings are rapidly replacing companies like SAP and Oracle as de facto industry standards.
Ally Financial — Ally may be willing to sell all or part of itself, according to The New York Times.
Apple — Apple would be interested in any potential Time Warner spinoff, according to the New York Post. The paper said Apple's interest stems from the possibility of the company launching a stand-alone streaming TV service.
Progress Software — Progress earned an adjusted 53 cents per share for its latest quarter, 4 cents above estimates, but its revenue fell short of forecasts. The maker of business applications software gave some mixed guidance, projecting lower-than-expected current quarter profit, but overall 2016 earnings above estimates.
Tractor Supply — The retailer cut its full-year forecast because of unusually warm weather impacting the sale of cold weather goods. Heating equipment, snow blowers, and generators are among the wide variety of products sold by Tractor Supply.
PayPal Holdings — Mizuho began coverage of PayPal with a "buy" rating, saying the payment service is a dominant online payment platform in a unique position to gain even more share.
TiVo — The maker of digital video recorders named Chief Financial Officer Naveen Chopra as its interim chief executive officer, effective January 30. He replaces Tom Rogers, who moves to the role of non-executive chairman. Rogers had previously announced his intention to step down from the CEO post.
Ford Motor — The automaker declared a $1 billion supplemental cash dividend, amounting to 25 cents per share, and also said it expected to report a record 2015 pre-tax profit.
MetLife — MetLife is planning to split off its U.S. retail insurance business from the rest of the company, prompted by the current regulatory environment. The company is considering a variety of approaches, including an initial public offering, a spinoff, or a sale.
Walt Disney — Disney announced it would open its new Shanghai theme park on June 16, following five years of construction. Disney originally had planned to open the new park during 2015.
Yum Brands — The restaurant operator reported that December same-store sales in China rose by 1 percent, driven by a 5 percent gain at its KFC unit. That helped offset an 11 percent same-store sales drop at Pizza Hut. Yum is in the process of spinning off its China business.
Stryker — Stryker raised its full-year 2015 guidance, with the medical device maker saying sales came in at the upper end of its prior forecast. The company was also helped by the suspension of an excise tax on medical devices. Stryker will release its fourth-quarter results for 2015 on January 26.
Qualcomm — The chipmaker formed a $3 billion joint venture with Japan's TDK to make components used in a wide variety of wireless devices.
Alphabet — The company's Google unit created a new virtual reality unit, and named Clay Bavor to head the new operation. Bavor had been running the company's product management team.
Anthem — The health insurer said it could save as much as $3 billion per year in drug costs, thanks to a re-pricing provision in its current contract with pharmacy benefits manager Express Scripts.
Aetna — CEO Mark Bertolini said the insurer will not give up on the public health exchange market, despite losing money this past year. Competitor UnitedHealth Group recently said it was considering getting out of that business due to high costs and lower-than-expected enrollment.
Aeropostale — Aeropostale is weighing a reverse stock split, in order to regain compliance with New York Stock Exchange listing rule. The teen apparel retailer also said it would eliminate 100 jobs to save up to $40 million per year.
A relentless sell off in crude oil prices this week could be setting up a potential buying opportunity, if history is any guide.
On Tuesday, WTI crude oil prices broke below $30 a barrel for the first time since December 2003, leading some traders to speculate the recent losses may be overdone.
In the past five trading sessions, oil prices plunged 15 percent, dragged down by concerns over abundant production along with feeble demand from China.
Now that the price of crude is down about 50 percent from a high of $61 reached in June, could this battered commodity finally catch a break?
Pressure on global corporate credit ratings is at the worst level since the financial crisis, Standard & Poor's (S&P) has warned.
In a report on Tuesday, the ratings agency said that 17 percent of debt-issuing companies were on "negative credit watch" at the end of 2015, meaning they had a 50 percent chance of being downgraded within the next three months.  This outnumbered the number of companies on "positive credit watch" by a ratio of three-to-one.
This meant that negative outlooks on global companies exceeded positive ones by the worst margin —11 percent — since 2008-09, S&P said.
There is one story Jim Cramer has heard from everyone's lips these days, and it basically questions how it could be possible that the stock market isn't soaring higher on the news that oil is collapsing.
Instead, the market fell on Tuesday when oil dipped below $30, and it only rallied in the afternoon when oil bounced back and closed down only 3 percent.
"With oil at $30, pretty much straight down for months now from June of 2014, when Brent hit $114, you would think we would be dancing in the streets. I can recall whole bull markets based on the falling cost of fuel," the "Mad Money" host said.
The visibility of the decline is so scary that it now colors the entire stock market.
This is how the combination of a once in a lifetime decline in everyone's budget and the budget of millions of corporations does not translate into a stock market rally. It is playing against the appalling losses of the oil companies themselves. It has prompted investors to ignore the positives of the decline and focus only on the negatives, Cramer said.
"We need to respect the fact that something good for the economy, lower oil, can actually be a negative for the stock market, at least short-term, no matter how wrong it might turn out to be over the long-term," Cramer said.
In other words, until oil stabilizes — at any level — do not expect a real relief from the sell-off.
Read MoreCramer: $300B bond restructure could happen
The "Fast Money" traders delivered their final trades of the day.
Tim Seymour was a buyer of Altria.
David Seaburg was a buyer of Fitbit.
Karen Finerman was a buyer of Ralph Lauren.
Guy Adami was a buyer of the iShares Nasdaq Biotechnology ETF.
There's growing evidence that Saudi Arabia's attempt to flood the crude market at a time of oversupply and concerns about weakening demand is not working, American oil billionaire Harold Hamm said Tuesday.
"We're in a predatory pricing environment. That's what's happened. The Saudis turned 1.8 million barrels on, and basically their intent was to drown us. But they've not got that done. It's been a monumental mistake for them, I might add, a trillion-  dollar mistake," the founder and chief of Oklahoma-based Continental Resources told CNBC's "Squawk Box."
Read MoreThis is the Saudi news that could move oil
Hamm cited speculation that Saudi Aramco, the state-owned oil giant, may sell at least part of its operations in an initial public offering.
"They're having to sell part of their business to keep doing what they are doing," he said, referring to the refusal by the Saudis to cut production. "They're having to sustain a country. We're sustaining companies here. We cut capex and quit spending money. And ride it out."
Pressure may be mounting on Saudi Arabia from fellow OPEC members, as crude prices continued to trade around 12-year lows Tuesday morning. Nigeria's oil minister said a couple members of OPEC have requested an emergency meeting. But other members said the group won't be gathering to talk about oil prices before their next scheduled meeting in June.
Over the next 12 months, Hamm expects oil prices to nearly double to around the $50 to $60 per barrel range as output, at least in the U.S., abates. "The tipping point is getting back to equilibrium with supply and demand. We see that happening in the back part of the year."
Read MoreOil prices stabilize after hitting multiyear lows
But there's been some question about whether some of the U.S. oil companies can survive until the market stabilizes.
Oppenheimer analyst Fadel Gheit told CNBC on Monday that half of the American shale producers could go bankrupt before crude eventually turns. Gheit also sees equilibrium at around $60 per barrel, but said it could take more than two years to get there.
Hamm said the bankruptcy narrative has been vastly overstated.
"It's a different situation than it was in the 1980s. Most of the companies out there [now] have long term money that's not coming due tomorrow," he said. "They're able to ride this out."
"A lot of bankruptcies were predicted early. They're just not happening. We have some of them that have. The weaker companies are folding, maybe, but very few of them," he said.
Investors looking for strong value plays may find an unusual one in Alphabet, Oakmark portfolio manager Bill Nygren said Tuesday.
"It's one of the few, that you would call, growth stocks that we own. We think that the market generally underestimates how profitable search is, and we like the new reporting structure that Google's going to be using," Nygren told CNBC's "Fast Money: Halftime Report."
He also said Alphabet's new reporting structure will help investors see the company's search profitability as well as its large investments. "In the past, it's just been reported together, and it's just been anybody's guess as to how much the profits are versus how much the losses are."
Check out the companies making headlines after the bell Tuesday.
MetLife's stock was boosted after the bell Tuesday when it announced it plans to separate its U.S. life insurance unit — the largest in the country. That new spin-off would represent about 20 percent of MetLife's operating earnings as of September 30, 2015, the company said.
Shares of Yum Brands also ticked up after hours when the corporation behind Pizza Hut and Taco Bell announced a sales increase in its China division. December same-store sales — a closely followed metric in the industry— grew an estimated 1 percent year-over-year in China, the company announced Tuesday. The growth stemmed in part from a 5 percent same-store-sales increase for China's KFC locations. Sales declined for Pizza Huts in the region in December, the company said.
Investors should consider buying into five companies across different industries as the earnings outlook remains weak, Goldman Sachs' David Kostin said Tuesday.
The firm's chief equity strategist told CNBC's "Squawk on the Street" he likes Alphabet, Starbucks, Visa, Amgen and Bristol-Myers Squibb because they could see margins increase by over 50 basis points this year and in 2017.
Pete Najarian began the 2016 Halftime Report Portfolio Challenge by selecting shares of three brand-name companies that he believes have great management.
Here are ideas from the co-founder of optionMONSTER.com and tradeMONSTER.com for the new year and reasons for buying them for his model portfolio.
The world is awash in oil, and the glut shows no signs of letting up.
In the past, slumps in the price of crude have prompted major producers like Saudi Arabia to cut back output in order to tighten supplies, thereby boosting prices. But as American and Canadian producers have expanded production, Middle East producers continue to pump, hoping the crash in prices will push higher-cost North American producers out of business.
When it comes to the market trends so far in 2016, what was once hot is suddenly not.
The consumer discretionary sector, which was the best-performing sector in 2015 thanks to the outperformance from high fliers like Amazon, Nike, McDonald's and Starbucks, has fallen 4 percent in the last six trading sessions. According to one trader, the volatility will continue in the space throughout the year.
"We know consumer discretionary is heavily loaded with Amazon, Nike, Starbucks and a lot of names that perform very well, but the [XLY] ETF [that tracks the sector] is now [nearly] 10 percent from those 52-week highs," Dan Nathan told CNBC's "Fast Money" on Monday.
Fresh concerns over China's slowing economy sent oil prices into a steep decline to start off the week.
Before rising Tuesday to near $32 a barrel, crude fell 6 percent Monday and had lost 14 percent in 2016. Widely followed commodities watcher Dennis Gartman said the plunge could be the start of a new norm for oil.
"Let's not forget that a year and a half ago, I said that we were probably going to get to the mid $30s when crude oil prices were trading at $125 per barrel," he said on CNBC's "Fast Money" on Monday. "Here we are at $32 and the pressure is still on. I thought we would see some support. Clearly we haven't."
But rather than point the finger at China for falling oil prices, Gartman instead looked to Canada as the hot spot for the continued buildup in supply.
Read More Oil prices rise to $32 after hitting multi-year lows
As the earnings season gets underway, a group of stocks could be poised to move higher, if history is any guide.
Wall Street once again appears to have set the bar too low, setting up many opportunities for traders to benefit from a post-earnings surge.
At present, analysts predict fourth-quarter earnings to drop 4.2 percent on a year-over-year basis, while revenue figures are expected to fall 3.2 percent, according to Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S.
"Four of the 10 sectors in the index expect to see an improvement in earnings relative to Q4 2014," earnings analyst Greg Harrison wrote in a note to clients. Those four groups are telecom, financials, consumer discretionary and health care.
Conversely, earnings growth expectations this quarter point to energy and materials as getting hit the hardest due to weak economic growth and a collapse in commodity prices.
Read MoreBeat the market with Martin Sass
While betting on stocks ahead of earnings is often a difficult trade, investors tend to look at historical data to make assessments about the future.
With the stock market last week getting off to its worst ever start to a new year, investors burned in the August swoon should know the risks of exchange-traded funds, better known as ETFs, said Peter Kraus, chairman and CEO of money manager AB, formerly AllianceBernstein.
Kraus, a critic of ETFs, told CNBC's "Squawk Box" on Tuesday that so far this year ETF liquidity has been strong. "There hasn't been any real sell-off in the equity market as we saw in August. Although the equity market has gone down, it's actually been pretty orderly."
Read MoreIt's time to stash cash: Portfolio manager
The sell-off he was referring to came Aug. 24, when the Dow Jones industrial average fell as much as 1,089 points at the open. The panic selling sent a group of ETFs down about 30 percent, often far below the value of their underlying stocks. Trading in hundreds of such funds was halted that day.
"We need a warning label. We need to understand the risks in ETFs," Kraus reiterated Tuesday. "Stock ETFs showed there can be disconnects between the underlying price and the ETF. That's really dangerous when it happens. It's hard to predict."
"It generally comes in a market when sellers get a little rattled. And they accelerate the sell orders," he continued. "We saw it in August. And ETFs can become incredibly expensive."
Kraus, whose actively managed mutual funds compete with passive index-tracking ETFs, first raised these concerns in in November.
At the time, BlackRock Chairman and CEO Larry Fink, whose firm manages an industry-leading $822 billion ETF portfolio as part of its total $4.5 trillion under management, defended ETFs, saying the problems on Aug. 24 were more related to market structure.
Read More Fink: 'Flash Crash' wasn't the fault of ETFs
Kraus acknowledged Tuesday on CNBC that ETFs can be an effective tool to allow investors to "move in and out of more markets quickly."
But at what cost, he asked. "Professionals … do buy ETFs when they're cheap and sell them when they're rich. And they're actually pretty good at it."
"Everybody else has a harder time with that," Kraus contended, saying investors looking to time the market have to be right 75 percent of the time to beat the more traditional buy-and-hold approach to stock investing.
— Reuters contributed to this article.
The oil glut will help Saudi Arabia take out its competition, CNBC's Jim Cramer said Tuesday.
"I know Harold Hamm, from Continental, this morning was saying it's hurting the Saudis' interest. That's not true. The Saudis have a definitive game plan to wipe out U.S. production," Cramer said on "Squawk on the Street."
U.S. crude prices rebounded Tuesday, after hitting a 12-year low as oversupply concerns continue to plague the market.
In a CNBC Pro exclusive interview from JPMorgan's Annual Healthcare Conference in San Francisco, Prothena CEO Dale Schenk gave a revealing update on the state of the company's pipeline and its prospects.
Prothena is a late-stage biotechnology company focused on the discovery and development of protein immunotherapies for diseases such as Parkinson's.
Apart from describing where promising developments are taking place, Schenk shared his views on the company's capitalization and the volatility in the biotech stock market.
Can't see the video? Here's how to become a CNBC Pro subscriber.
You have heard the drumbeat: Keep your fees low, and financial success will follow. But do you really know how much you are paying in fees?
The question is far from academic. Investors in defined contribution plans and individual retirement accounts pay billions of dollars in fees every year, and every dollar they pay in fees reduces returns.
Therefore, if one of your New Year's resolutions is to clean up your finances, understanding your 401(k) fees is a great place to start — if you know where to look.
Luckily, federal regulations have made it easier than in the past to figure out what you are paying in 401(k) fees. But too many people fail to look and see what they are shelling out, said Lisa Bleier, managing director and associate general counsel at the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association.
"Folks do now have the materials" to see what they are spending, she said. "Disappointingly, people are not using them as much as we wish they were."
With such volatile swings to kick off the first week of 2016, Jim Cramer is ready to switch from capital preservation mode to capital appreciation mode — something that needs to happen before a sustained rally can begin. Especially for Petrobras, which Cramer considers to be the worst stock in the world.
"I've put together an extensive checklist of the things that need to happen before we can be more concerned about making money than we are with not losing money," the "Mad Money" host said.
Cramer selected 14 events that need to occur in order for the market to find a bottom, and stocks to stop endlessly losing money:
No. 1 Federal Reserve must change its debilitating narrative that it adopted after the first rate hike. While Cramer understands that the stock market is not the Fed's main concern, the Fed needs to know its own strength and recognize that when it speaks about the need for four more rate hikes in 2016 — that creates tremendous uncertainty. Cramer wants the Fed to be more data dependent, not just on employment, but other factors such as deflation and slowdown in various areas of the economy.
No. 4 Commodities need to bottom. The persistent deflation for all commodities has caused entire countries to derail, not just their stock markets. Materials such as copper, tin, iron and aluminum remain in free fall because of China. This has created an environment that cannot be invested in.
No. 5 Oil must stop going down. Bankruptcies and reorganizations must occur this year because a lot of companies are in distress. Players such as Petrobras, Chesapeake and Freeport-McMoRan are running out of capital and may have a hard time paying debt.
"It all comes due in 2016 if oil doesn't stop going down, and I don't think it will without a huge geopolitical crisis occurring in the Middle East," Cramer said. (Tweet This)
Read MoreCramer: The 14 steps to a REAL market bottom
Copper prices declined to levels not seen since 2009 and are down more than 7 percent for the year on worries over demand destruction in China.
One of the oldest market adages is how the metal has a Ph.D. in economics. Many investors believe copper prices are a leading indicator of future economic trends with its use in a wide variety of sectors including home construction, industrial manufacturing and consumer products.
Investors may wonder which companies are affected by such volatility in copper prices. Using Kensho, a quantitative tool used by hedge funds, CNBC Pro found the top and worst performing names when copper prices fall by at least 5 percent in one week.
Here is what we found.
Check out which companies are making headlines before the bell:
Apple — Bank of America upgraded Apple to "buy" from "neutral" with a price target of $130, saying concerns over reduced iPhone production are already reflected in the stock's price and that Apple could be primed for a bullish cycle involving an upgraded Apple watch and a possible new iPhone.
Darden Restaurants — Activist investor Starboard Value cut its stake in the Olive Garden parent to 8.1 percent from 9.1 percent, citing appreciation in the stock's price.
DreamWorks Animation — FBR upgraded the movie studio to "outperform" from "market perform," citing the potential of larger payments from Netflix for movie rights, as well as expanded TV production.
CarMax — Oppenheimer upgraded the car seller's shares to "outperform" from "perform," saying the share price now reflects near-term challenges following a recent drop and that it is still confident about CarMax's long-term prospects.
Alcoa — The aluminum producer reported adjusted quarterly profit of 4 cents per share, 2 cents above estimates, though revenue was very slightly below forecasts on sliding aluminum prices. Alcoa did project record aluminum demand for 2016.
Lululemon — Lululemon raised its guidance for its most recent quarter following stronger-than-expected holiday season sales. The maker of yoga wear had been cautious about the quarter's outlook a month ago, pointing to slower store traffic in October and November.
Intel — Intel was upgraded to "buy" from "neutral" at Mizuho, noting that declines in the personal computer market are moderating and that the chip maker is a dominant force in cloud and other new markets.
Coca-Cola — Stifel upgraded the beverage maker to "buy" from "hold," noting valuation, as well as improving growth trends.
Wells Fargo — KBW upgraded the bank's stock to "outperform" from "market perform," saying a recent sell-off gives investors a rare opportunity to improve their portfolios with a stock that rarely falls to "cheap enough" levels.
Nike — Nike Chief Executive Officer Mark Parker has joined the board of Walt Disney, bringing the total number of Disney directors to 12.
Boeing — Boeing fell behind competitor Airbus in new business for 2015, with 768 jet orders compared to 1,036 for Airbus. However, Airbus was behind Boeing in jet deliveries, with 635, while Boeing delivered an industry record 762 jets.
SAP — SAP released better-than-expected results for 2015, as it saw strong levels of license renewals and adoption of cloud-based software. However, the business software provider did give a cautious outlook for the current year.
Mylan — The drugmaker submitted its generic version of the GlaxoSmithKline lung drug Advair for U.S. Food and Drug Administration approval.
Starbucks — The coffee chain is planning to open 500 new stores in China this year, despite the economic slowdown in that country.
Time Warner — Time Warner shares have been rising this month on continued takeover speculation, but investor Carl Icahn told CNBC that he is not building an equity stake in the media company, contrary to a Reuters report. Icahn told CNBC: "I don't own one share of Time Warner and it annoys me that certain speculators use my name to make profits at the expense of other shareholders".
United Continental — The airline said its fourth-quarter passenger revenue may fall more than expected, following the November attacks in Paris and sharply lower oil prices. Those lower oil prices hurt ticket sales to United's Houston-based energy clients.
McDonald's — McDonald's is the target of a European antitrust complaint, with Italian consumer groups claiming the restaurant chain imposes illegal terms on its franchisees.
Amazon.com — Amazon plans to release a new, smaller version of its voice-controlled "Echo" digital assistant within a few weeks.
JPMorgan Chase  — The bank is considering replacing its Bloomberg terminals with Reuters software unless the bank can get a better deal on the terminals, according to the New York Post.
The new year has become a roller-coaster ride for investors, but Strategas Research Partners' Jason Trennert said Tuesday the volatility may not signal "the big one" is coming. Instead, it's a symptom of the new normal in stock markets.
Major U.S. indexes have entered correction territory as China's currency depreciation and stock market ructions, as well as further deterioration in crude markets, stoke fear among investors.
"I think there's a tendency after ... the global financial crisis to think that every time there is a financial crisis, it's the big one. It's the 100-year storm," Strategas' chief investment strategist told CNBC's "Squawk Box." "I think we have to get used to the fact that these things are part and parcel of just of the sturm und drang of financial markets."
Markets went 48 months without a correction until August, the longest period without a 10-percent pullback on record, Trennert noted. But now that the Federal Reserve is normalizing interest rates, volatility will be a more typical part of markets, he said.
To be sure, Strategas factors in the possibility of a black swan event in its 2016 base case scenario, partly related to China's yuan devaluation and its impact on emerging markets and worry of a deeper S&P 500 correction.
Overnight news will likely again be key for stock market action Tuesday.
First, Wall Street is watching China for any further weakening in the yuan and the action in the local stock market. Stabilization in the yuan on Monday helped U.S. equities close mixed, despite a sharp decline in mainland Chinese stocks and a plunge in oil prices.
Federal Reserve Vice Chair Stanley Fischer is due to speak at 5:30 a.m. ET, and reiteration of the likelihood of four rate hikes this year could further unsettle investors who are uncertain about whether the U.S. economy is strong enough to support that pace of tightening.
It's been a grim start to the year as far as equity markets are concerned, but one strategist has told CNBC that it's only a "nasty market correction" rather than the beginning of a bear market.
It might not be time to buy quite yet, but Bob Parker, a senior advisor for investment strategy and research at Credit Suisse told CNBC Tuesday that investors should be poised for a rally in February, after equities find a base later this month.
"Over the last 10 days we have had, as I call it, a confluence of many negative factors in markets, therefore the major correction we've had isn't that surprising," Parker said.
"The key question is, is this a correction or the start of a major bear market? My argument is it's very similar replay to what we had last August and September. This is a major nasty correction, (but) we're now a large way through that correction," he added.
Conceived as an emergency exit strategy and incubated under intense pressure, Steve Cohen's second corporate incarnation has developed into a childhood prodigy.
The "Fast Money" traders revealed their final trades of the day.
Peter Najarian was a buyer of Foot Locker and Nike.
Steve Grasso was a buyer of American Eagle Outfitters.
Dan Nathan was a buyer of Under Armour.
Guy Adami was a buyer of Netflix.
If there is one thing that is clear to Jim Cramer these days, it is that the love for momentum stocks is quickly fading — especially Under Armour.
On Monday, the stock received the ultimate indignity when Morgan Stanley downgraded the stock to underweight, the absolute worst thing that could happen to a stock.
Morgan Stanley's indictment cited a threat of declining share and average selling prices to its valuation. The analyst worried about near-term earnings uncertainty as Under Armour is losing apparel market share for the first time in three years and prices are being cut.
Footwear is also down 20 percent since January 2013. Morgan Stanley implied that Under Armour now must compete on price.
"My take? You can't beat Nike at their own game," the "Mad Money" host said.
The JPMorgan Health Care Conference kicked off amid new mergers and acquisitions and fresh breakthroughs in the health care industry. Despite new findings, the biotech sector struggled to hold higher Monday.
While rising drug prices have made some investors hesitant to allocate resources in the sector, biotech companies are defending the increases by pointing toward innovation.
"I think it's interesting to look backwards because we have raised our prices of drugs, and we did use that money to bring forth new compounds," said George Scangos, Biogen CEO, speaking to CNBC's "Closing Bell" on Monday.
Technology leaders like Facebook, Alphabet and Apple are down around 6 percent since the start of 2016 on fears over China's financial health. Add to that worry over a slowing American economy, and the picture for the sector doesn't look too great.
But investors might want to hold off on selling the tech dip. Worries from Beijing and the sluggish 2 percent annual growth rate of the U.S. economy won't weigh too heavily on the largest tech companies, experts told CNBC's "Squawk Alley."
"I think there is very good growth in tech," said Allianz Global Investors senior portfolio manager Walter Price. "Technology companies] may moderate in our slower-growth economy, but I think tech has still got good growth, much better growth than most sectors in the economy."
Another down day, saved only by a late day rally on vague hopes that China may act to stabilize its currency.
Short term, there are two things that are moving the markets:  1) oil, and 2) fears of a currency war.
The currency war thing is very real.  Notice that China's Shanghai Index was down more than 6 percent overnight.  You'd think Europe and the U.S. would open down, but no. The Chinese raised the value of the yuan, and our markets were calm. That's because currency wars are a major concern.
Aside from these two primary drivers ... both of which reflect heightened global risk, the market is also evaluating what the proper price for stocks should be in general.  You'll notice no one is picking on a particular sector since the start of the year:  energy, materials, financials, health care, technology and industrials are all down 7 to 9 percent.
There is a general de-grossing going on.  Traders are taking down positions because, in addition to oil and currency risks, they see:
1) the beginning of Fed tightening,   2) flat to modestly up corporate earnings,  3) strong new jobs but at comparatively low wages,  4) low inflation that shows no signs of rising, and...  5) an election year with highly unpredictable outcome and some leading candidates who are out of the mainstream and the outcome of Trump who could bring a global trade war.
One trader friend of mine, a very astute observer of the markets, messaged me this morning:  "Not helpful to think of bulls and bears, this is Mr. Market working through a major reevaluation of the proper equity and bond prices."
Check out the companies making headlines after the bell Monday:
Alcoa shares jumped in after-hours trading Monday after the company reported mixed quarterly results. The metals and mining company kicked off earnings season with fourth-quarter earnings of 4 cents per share, topping analyst expectations. But it fell just short of predictions on revenue, coming in at $5.25 billion. Later this year, Alcoa plans to separate into two publicly traded companies, one housing its legacy aluminum and smelting operations and the other its higher-growth materials segment.
Recent market volatility has dredged up memories of previous times of turmoil, most notably the 2008 crisis. But Gina Martin Adams of Wells Fargo Securities has been reminded of another, less dramatic correction year — 1998.
Adams posits that the current economic environment is suffering from themes that also played out in 1998, including falling oil prices, a rising U.S. dollar and troubles in emerging markets. Consequently, stocks may see a similar move to the 1998 correction, which saw a 20 percent drop for stocks over six weeks.
"Despite these somewhat worrisome signals from the intermarket, the broader economy appears to be holding up reasonably to struggles of the oil and gas complex, deteriorating export growth, and evidence of manufacturing recession, suggesting domestic recession is still likely to be avoided," Adams, an institutional equity strategist, wrote in a Thursday note.
She believes that although a correction this year would likely be more drawn out and less extreme, large-cap stocks may see another 8 to 10 percent decline.
Read More Keep 80% of your money in stocks: Asset allocator
"If the relevant domestic economic data turns over ... we would be forced to change our tune. For now, we suggest investors should continue to add positions in quality and momentum stocks," Adams said.
Looking at the options market, Stacey Gilbert of Susquehanna, said that the 1998 comparison is also congruent with the past week's volatility. As stocks fell 6 percent over the worst first trading week of a year in history, Gilbert noted that the CBOE Volatility Index (or the VIX) stayed below 25, which did not point to market panic.
"If you look at 1998 and the types of pullbacks that we saw, the types of volatility that we saw, it is more similar to what we're seeing now" [than 2008], Gilbert, head of derivatives strategy, said Friday on CNBC's "Trading Nation." "That is a fairly orderly sell-off. It is no panic, it is not this crazy run for the exits."
Read MoreHas the market really time warped back to 2008?
According to Albert Brenner of People's United Bank, emerging market debt is where the 2016 story differs from 1998. In the previous term, Brenner said that emerging market debt was predominantly from Latin America and below investment grade. Nowadays, those investments are more evenly divided among mostly investment-grade debt from European and Asian emerging markets, he said.
"Could it get to look like 1998 again, with commodity prices down and weak growth in China? It's not out of the realm of possibility, but I think it's remote at this point," he said Friday on "Trading Nation."
Over the past quarter century, investors have turned to dividend-paying stocks as lifeboats in an ocean of volatility.
However, traders are expecting that to change, and in a pretty monumental way.
Players in the swaps market — generally institutional investors exchanging contracts over expected moves in market variables — are pricing in the lowest growth in dividends since 1950, according to a Goldman Sachs analysis. The current pricing levels imply a growth rate of just 1.3 percent a year, which would be down sharply from the average 5.8 percent growth in the 65-year period.
If the expectations are correct, it would mark a major change for retail investment strategy.
Read MoreThese are the stocks that do best in rocky markets
"Strategically, we are partial to dividends, which have historically generated a meaningful share of total return for US equities," Goldman strategists said in a note to clients. "However, on a tactical basis, rising interest rates pose a risk to high dividend yield stocks."
These numbers are staggering — and painful — for Apple shareholders.
Since hitting a high of $133 in late February 2015, shares of Apple have fallen 26 percent, amounting to a market cap loss of more than $225 billion. That's more than the total market cap of 98 percent of companies in the S&P 500.
"It's pretty incredible that the $225 billion lost is more than the market cap for companies like Disney, Bank of America and JPMorgan Chase," Optimize Advisors co-founder Mike Khouw told CNBC's "Options Action."
Read MoreApple's music streaming subscribers top 10m
For those who lost money on Apple's fall, Khouw offered a simple options strategy to make some of it back: Buy a 1x2 call  spread.
"One of the first things you are going to do when you are going to recover some of the money that you've lost is try to do it at little to no cost," Khouw said. "The next thing to consider is this is something you want to do in the short term, I typically try to look out about four months or less," he said Friday. "The last thing you want to do with this kind of strategy is choose an upper strike that is below where its previous highs were."

U.S. markets showed signs of recovering Monday despite a 5 percent decline in Chinese stocks, but even if traders look past an additional sell-off in Asia, they face another tough earnings season, experts told CNBC.
Last week, U.S. stocks turned in their worst first five-day opening to a year on record as China's markets slid and crude prices hit new multiyear lows.
A string of yuan devaluations in China has created a negative feedback loop, undermined currency markets and caused investors to question the ability of Chinese leaders  to manage their economy, said David Lebovitz, global market strategist at JPMorgan Asset Management.
But U.S. markets were up in premarket trading before slipping in late-morning trade, despite the Asian equity tumble.
"Hopefully what we're beginning to see is investors look through a lot of the noise, which is coming out of China right now," he told CNBC's "Squawk Box." "Hopefully we're looking through that, we're focusing more on the fundamentals, we're focusing more on earnings, and as we embark on earnings season we get some positive data bringing people back into the stock market."
Ultimately, investors need to see earnings growth for markets to move higher, Lebovitz said. But the outlook is not bright.
S&P Capital IQ forecasts fourth-quarter S&P 500 earnings will decline 5.7 percent year over year, marking the first back-to-back quarters of earnings declines since 2009. S&P earnings fell 1.4 percent in the third quarter.
Just 4 of 10 S&P sectors — telecommunications, consumer discretionary, health care and financials — are expected to turn in positive earnings growth for the fourth quarter.
Oil's free fall may continue says yet another major Wall Street bank. So how should investors trade it?
Even after the world's most important commodity fell to the lowest price since 2004 on Monday, Morgan Stanley warned of another oil plunge due to Chinese currency devaluation risk.
"The truth is that there is a strong inverse correlation between the trade-weighted U.S. dollar (which is rising sharply) and commodity prices, which has a fundamental basis," Morgan Stanley's Adam Longson wrote in a note to clients Monday.
He added: "Some analysts' most drastic price scenarios could be realized, but not for the reasons suggested. Oil is particularly levered to the U.S. dollar. ... Given the continued U.S. dollar appreciation, $20 to $25 oil price scenarios are possible simply due to currency."
Morgan Stanley follows Goldman Sachs' $20 oil downside risk call  last month on OPEC maintaining production and storage capacity reaching constraints.
"We reiterate our concern that 'financial stress' may prove too little too late to prevent the market from having to clear through 'operational stress' with prices near cash costs to force production cuts, likely around $20/barrel," Goldman Sachs' Damien Courvalin wrote in a note to clients Dec. 17.
If Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs are correct, here's two ways to profit from the call.
With ever-increasing sectarian tensions in oil-producing countries, it may be hard to believe that crude prices are continuing to fall. But look no further than the worldwide crude glut for the reason, said Helima Croft, global head of commodity strategy at RBC Capital.
"We had ISIS attacks on Libyan facilities last week, and the market just shrugged it off," Croft told CNBC's "Worldwide Exchange" on Monday. "If this had been a couple of years ago and we were having this conversation, oil would be substantially higher."
The perception of oversupply is stronger than ever, said Croft. "You literally need to see a physical supply disruption out of Saudi Arabia for anyone to get excited."
Global oversupply and weak demand have driven prices down since 2014, the last time crude traded above $100 a barrel. U.S. companies have since pulled back on exploration, and production continues to drop.
"Last year was exceptional, we were at a five-year high for demand and look where prices were," Croft said, noting crude finished January 2015 at more than $50 per barrel.
U.S. oil, as measured by West Texas Intermediate crude, dipped below $32 per barrel in late-morning trading Monday, hitting fresh 12-year lows. WTI lost more than 10 percent last week and about 70 percent since June 2014.
Read MorePain to gain: Crude prices to triple?
Croft said Middle Eastern producers were expecting to see prices bounce back by now.
"They did not expect we'd be in this price environment with U.S. production slowing," she said. "The Saudis are taking on austerity measures to try and endure lower for longer."
I was one of the first reporters to point out the "earnings recession" in the S&P 500. As it stands now, we are poised for at least three consecutive quarters of negative earnings growth.
S&P Earnings
Q2 2015: -0.7 percent
Q3 2015: -1.5 percent
Q4 2015 (est.): -5.5 percent
(Source: Factset)
S&P earnings for the fourth quarter would be fractionally positive were it not for the 68 percent decline in energy earnings, which were hit by a perfect storm of a continuing decline in oil prices, contract cancellations, and low natural gas prices caused by the record warm weather in December. Materials were also down 26 percent as global growth slowed commodities imploded.
There are two major problems for big, multinational companies, which are the majority of the S&P 500.
Top investor Martin Sass joined CNBC Pro for an exclusive interview outlining his overall investment philosophy, as well as his specific strategy for 2016.
Sass, who manages $7 billion at M.D. Sass, a New York-based investment firm he founded in 1972, believes cash will be king in 2016. Since 1999, the flagship strategy of Sass' firm has more than doubled the cumulative return of the S&P 500.
"I've seen this movie before where you get a very few stocks, high momentum stocks, leading the market and the rest of the market is actually declining," Sass said, referring to the deterioration in market breadth.
He said other negative catalysts that could destabilize stocks include sharp losses in energy, pressure on illiquid junk bonds, decelerating growth in China and uncertainty over the direction of interest rates.
With 2016 beginning with a bang, Sass explained how investors can actually benefit from any potential downturns and position their portfolios for outsized returns. He also disclosed his favorite stocks and overall strategy on how to find value in the market.
Watch the video below of the full interview hosted by Mike Santoli.
Rising interest rates and wobbly markets may roil some stocks, but they barely put a dent in ones with steadily rising dividends.
Buoyed by growing earnings, these high-quality stocks perform well in different economic scenarios, say experts. The benchmark S&P 500 Dividend Aristocrats Index, for example, has pumped out 9.91 percent annual returns for the past 10 years versus only 6.93 percent for the S&P 500.
Experts believe that these cash-rich companies will do even better this year. Swooning markets have indeed hit the Dividend Aristocrats Index too. But that index has had a 4.2 percent loss so far this year versus a steeper one of 4.9 percent for the S&P 500.
Gasoline prices are plunging and are already down over 10 percent for the year after ballooning inventories and the prospect of more production out of Iran and Saudi Arabia.
Investors may wonder which companies benefit the most from falling prices at the pump.
Using Kensho, a quantitative tool used by hedge funds, CNBC Pro found the top-performing consumer and retailer names when gas prices fell by at least 10 percent over a month — such a move occurred in 28 instances in the last decade.
Oil investors are trying to survive a brutal start to the year. They're coping with crude prices sinking to 12-year lows as Chinese demand falls and ballooning U.S. stockpiles fuel fear.
Relief, however, may be on the way. One top analyst expects prices to triple back into the $90 a barrel range by 2018. At present, few analysts expect crude prices to recover that sharply.
Read MoreOil bull Andy Hall ends year down 35 percent
But before the markets get there, the pain could intensify.
"It looks like a rough year," Wolfe Research managing director and senior oil and gas analyst Paul Sankey told CNBC's "Fast Money" recently. "Our base-case scenario is not for a full-blown recession," but the firm is "pretty negative" on the year.
Yet Sankey thinks the end might be in sight. He said he expects prices to average in the $40 a barrel range in 2016 — about $10 higher from current levels. Once the current turmoil ends, and OPEC overcomes its inability to forge a consensus on production cuts, Sankey believes the market will eventually head higher as excess capacity gets used up.
At that time, oil will retest levels above $90, he added.
Check out which companies are making headlines before the bell:
Baxalta  — The drug maker will be acquired by Shire for $32 billion in cash and stock, valued at $45.57 per share.
Wells Fargo, JPMorgan Chase  — Goldman upgraded Wells Fargo to "buy" from "neutral," while downgrading JPMorgan Chase to "neutral" from "buy." Goldman said Wells Fargo is well-positioned to deal with a variety of potential negative factors, such as lower oil prices or a slower China economy. Its downgrade of JPMorgan is based on recent outperformance and that valuation is now more accurately reflected in the stock's price.
American Eagle Outfitters — Telsey Advisory Group downgraded the apparel retailer's stock to "market perform" from "outperform," noting a recent slowdown in comparable-store sales growth.
IHS — The analytics firm announced the acquisition of Oil Price Information Service in a $650 million deal.
Hershey — JPMorgan Chase downgraded the chocolate maker's stock to "neutral" from "overweight," saying the company is overly optimistic about its earnings growth.
Apollo Education Group — The online college operator said it would consider strategic alternatives, even as it continues to move forward with its planned business transformation. Apollo said it is currently in discussions that could lead to a change in control of the company.
Williams-Sonoma — Wedbush downgraded the housewares retailer to "neutral" from "outperform," saying pressures on the company will persist and that the company stumbled in its e-commerce growth in 2015 following several years of success in that area.
Kohl's — The Wall Street Journal  reported that the retailer is considering taking itself private or breaking itself up. The paper said Kohl's is concerned that its lower share price may make it a target for activist investors.
Yahoo — Yahoo plans to spend another $3 billion to boost its web content, according to the New York Post. Yahoo declined comment on the report, although it did say CEO Marissa Mayer would unveil future plans for the company soon. (Disclosure: CNBC has a content-sharing partnership with Yahoo's finance site.)
Apple — The company's Apple Music service has passed the 10 million subscriber mark, taking six months to reach that milestone. Separately, Mizuho upgraded Apple stock to "buy" from "neutral," saying short-term concerns and a recent price slump have created an attractive risk/reward profile.
Macy's — The retailer is being urged by activist investor Starboard Value to unlock the value of its real estate holdings, according to The Wall Street Journal. Starboard's proposal comes in a letter sent to the retailer's management over the weekend.
Delta Air Lines — Delta will be allowed to maintain its five daily flights between Love Field in Dallas and Atlanta, according to a court ruling. Delta and rival Southwest Airlines have been engaged in a dispute involving a gate-sharing agreement that expired last summer.
Southwest Airlines — Southwest reported an 8.6 percent increase in revenue passenger miles for December compared to a year earlier. For the fourth quarter, revenue passenger miles were up 11.1 percent.
Walt Disney — Disney's "Star Wars: The Force Awakens" remained atop the weekend box office for the fourth straight week, with $41.6 million in North American ticket sales. That brings its total to a record $812 million.
Volkswagen — Volkswagen will announce an expended compensation program for diesel vehicle owners today. The news will be unveiled at the Detroit Auto Show.
General Motors — GM goes to trial today in a suit over its 2014 ignition switch recalls involving millions of vehicles. Six trials are set for this year involving the faulty ignition switches and their relationship to injuries and deaths.
Alcoa — Alcoa has won a $1.5 billion supply contract from General Electric's aviation unit.
Arch Coal — Arch has filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection, as part of a restructuring agreement reached with lenders who hold more than $4.5 billion of the coal mining company's debt.
Times are getting tough for Apple investors.
Shares of the tech giant tumbled below $100 last week as concerns over the company's iPhone orders have weighed on investors. The stock is now down more than 27 percent from its all-time high, hit in late April 2015.
Yet rather than use the sell-off as an opportunity to buy more shares, one trader sees more pain for the world's largest company, which up until recently could do no wrong in the eyes of investors.
Read MoreWhy has Wall Street fallen out of love with Apple?
"Apple is in a potentially disastrous situation and it needs to be drawn attention to," Todd Gordon told CNBC's "Trading Nation" last week.
Looking at the tech giant's long-term chart, Gordon noted that the long-term uptrend is in danger of being breached. "We are on the verge of a technical breakdown," he said. "If we push through the $96 level in Apple, that's a big problem." If that uptrend line were to break, Gordon projected that the stock could fall as low as $81.
It's as if investors have put the entire market on the "too hard" pile. So hard, it's sinking like a rock, in fact.
The "too hard" pile is Warren Buffett partner Charlie Munger's place for investments too difficult, interlaced with too many conflicting or confusing elements, to make them either a buy or sell. After a grueling 2015 and global capital markets quaking, such equivocal confusion means few buyers are willing to take the other side of fearful liquidations from across the world.
U.S. stocks fell 6 percent last week, the worst five-day start to a year ever for the S&P 500 — and yet they outperformed all other major markets.
China's equity and currency markets jerking erratically puts a stateside trader in the position of handicapping the Chinese policy maneuvers, that market's response, and our market's reaction to that market's response. Too hard.
Read MoreScary? China's currency conundrum
Oil refuses to quit sliding, reaching prices not seen since early 2004 — when world fuel consumption was 14 percent lower — undermining the economic premise of much of our extraction industry. Oh, and transportation stocks are down 24 percent from a bit more than a year ago. Too hard.
And the American economy added 292,000 net new jobs last month, 40 percent more than forecast — yet Treasury bonds rallied and defensive market sectors outperformed, as economists were busy revising lower their fourth- and first-quarter growth projections. Once again, too hard.
For sure, it's never possible to sketch out the market's likely course with confidence. And the business cycle always confounds economists and the rest of us more than not.
But let's grant that the current moment is tougher than most, given hints of important trends turning. The stock market has been operating in the disputed borderlands between bull and bear market for months. China has never before been as big at a time it was slowing this much. And the Federal Reserve has rarely attempted a tightening campaign with the industrial sector suffering and the rest of the world going the other way.
Over all this hangs a question that few are asking but could soon become essential: Would a second "correction" in big American stocks just months after the first be a "healthy" one?
Stocks have had a historically rough start to the year, with the S&P 500 falling 6 percent for its worst week of losses since 2011. But despite the rocky road, one director of asset allocation says stocks should still play a large role in an investor's portfolio.
"For a 40-year-old investor right now, he or she should have at least a minimum of 80 percent in equities right now," said Albert Brenner of People's United Bank Wealth Management on Friday's "Power Lunch."
"I know that seems crazy after the four days we've had at the start of this year, but that's what the minimum would be."
The S&P 500 has lost nearly $1.1 trillion in market cap in the first week of January. For investors looking to protect their investments, Stacey Gilbert, head of derivatives strategy at Susquehanna, recommends buying put options on the S&P 500 ETF, SPY. Put options are a contract to sell a specific security at a set price and a set date.
However, Gilbert warned that the prices on protective options have risen amid the week's stock sell-off.
Read MoreWith stocks tanking, should investors dash to cash?
"On a relative basis just given the recent volatility in the marketplace, those puts are trading more expensively than they have been," Gilbert said Friday, also on "Power Lunch." To account for the higher prices on options, Gilbert recommends using another options strategy called a risk reversal, in which one buys a put option and sells a call option, which limits profits but reduces the cost of buying.
"We have seen investors buy puts for protection, a very common strategy, and they sell some of the upside calls against it to help finance those downside puts that they're buying," she said.
Struggling metals giant Alcoa is doing a "very good job" managing through the difficult world economic environment and the slump in commodities prices, billionaire vulture investor Wilbur Ross told CNBC on Monday.
While encouraged by Alcoa's execution, Ross said he's not a buyer of the stock yet, "because they have a couple of bad quarters to get through."
"[But] Alcoa is adjusting to [China] because they made this big move into titanium and other different metals," the chairman and CEO of WL Ross & Co. said in a "Squawk Box" in an interview. "That's why they're doing the split-up." Aloca plans this year to divide itself into two publicly traded entities, acknowledging that its legacy aluminum operations, and higher-value automotive and aerospace businesses were diverging and no longer compatible.
"Chances are there's more value in the newer things that they've been doing than there was in the old stuff because China is exporting an awful lot of aluminum," Ross said. "And it's a real problem for everybody. The price is down 25 percent in a very short time period. But commodities don't go to zero. Eventually they stabilize at something above the margin cost of production."
Read MoreChina shares tumble in late trade as Asia markets sell off
Shares of Alcoa, a former Dow component, have lost nearly half their value in the past 12 months. The company is set to report quarterly results Monday afternoon.
Alcoa has won a $1.5 billion supply contract from General Electric's aviation unit. Under the deal, Alcoa will supply advanced nickel-based superalloy, titanium and aluminum components for a broad range of GE Aviation engine programs.
No one would have predicted at the start of 2015 that Valeant Pharmaceuticals, a Canadian drug giant, would have lost more than 60 percent of its share price in two months. But in October, short seller Citron Research accused the company of engaging in bogus transaction to inflate revenue.
While nothing has been proved and some people aren't convinced the company has done anything wrong, the damage has already been done — retail investors who owned this quickly growing stock, whether on their own or in mutual funds, have lost a lot of money.
The "Fast Money" traders gave their final trades of the day.
Guy Adami was a buyer of RTN.
David Seaburg was a buyer of BAC.
Tim Seymour was a buyer of KO.
Brian Kelly was a seller of BLK.
The events of the Chinese stock market this week have led Jim Cramer to realize that the Communist Party has no idea what it is doing. They are making things up as they go along, and investors in the U.S. are asking too much from China.
"They aren't as clueless as our authorities were in 1929, but they do make themselves look like fools who are running things here in 1987," the "Mad Money" host said.
In Cramer's opinion, the Chinese stock market is floundering around the way the U.S. stock market did before we knew that aggressive, dynamic portfolio insurers could drive the entire market down with S&P futures.
"If the Communist Party is really stimulating, they are doing a terrible job of it," Cramer said. (Tweet This)
The nosedive in the Chinese stock market and the slowdown in the world's second-largest economy will certainly be front and center for global investors in the near term, but there's a more important shift underway, economist Mohamed El-Erian said Friday.
The bigger issue for financial markets is that central banks are running out of ammo, the Allianz chief economic adviser told CNBC. "Markets are realizing that central banks can no longer repress financial volatility. And they are repricing to new volatility paradigm," he said in a "Squawk Box" interview.
To that end, any shocks to the markets will take longer to reverse themselves, said El-Erian, former Pimco co-CEO. "What we're going to see is every time something happens in the world it's going to take longer to restore stability. That's what we're seeing with China today.
Read MoreJPMorgan: Here's what China needs to stabilize
El-Erian said it's a good thing the Federal Reserve is starting to normalize monetary policy. "They realize that they can't artificially repress financial volatility."
"What's not a good thing," he continued, "is we're not doing the other things that need to unleash the productive capacity of the economy."
The government needs to improve fundamentals to "validate financial assets," El-Erian said.
Read MoreDennis Gartman sees stocks dropping another 10%-15%
He encouraged lawmakers in Washington to start with issues perceived as common ground, such as reforming corporate taxes, reducing debt and fostering public-private cooperation on overhauling antiquated infrastructure.
It's been a wild ride for the markets this first week of January. As volatility in China's stock market weighs on investors, crude prices are threatening to tumble below $30.
The oil market doesn't have many bullish catalysts at the moment; there are fears of a declining demand in China, concerns regarding refinery maintenance and Iranian barrels are soon to hit the market, said Helima Croft, a senior strategist for RBC Capital Market.
"Do the fundamentals support oil in the $20s right now? Probably not," Croft said, speaking in an interview with CNBC's "Power Lunch" on Friday. She noted that macro-headlines could take the market anywhere.
"I love dividends. In dividends I trust. In cash I believe."
That is the trading mantra of entrepreneur and investor Kevin O'Leary, best known for his appearances on "Shark Tank."
While stocks showed signs of life on Friday, they fell sharply Thursday, spurred by volatility in China. On CNBC's "Halftime Report" on Wednesday, O'Leary offered up three tips to investors seeking to get an edge in this tumultuous market.

If a company is kicked out of the Dow Jones industrial average, should the stock be bought or sold? That was the question on Jim Cramer's mind on Friday, and he was surprised at what he found.
"You would think that being booted out of the Dow would be a death sentence for a given stock, but when you look at the performance of the last 10 stocks to have been kicked out, on average they have actually roared higher and performed much better once they were no longer a part of the venerable index," the "Mad Money" host said.
In the past eight years, there have been 10 stocks rejected from the Dow that were replaced by newer and sexier companies. The most recent exile was AT&T, which made room for Apple. Alcoa was replaced by Goldman Sachs, and Bank of America and Hewlett-Packard were shoved out by Nike and Visa.
The U.S. is not headed toward a recession, and the current financial climate still has good investment opportunities, according to a top hedge fund manager.
Avenue Capital's Marc Lasry appeared on CNBC's "Fast Money: Halftime Report" on Friday amid choppy stock trading and continued oil price pain. Yet despite recent worries, Lasry struck a cautiously optimistic tone on the U.S. economy.
"I don't think we're going into a recession, I think it's whether we're growing at 1 or 2 percent," he said. "So the fact that you've got lower GDP, that's fine, but at the end of the day the U.S. economy is doing fine."
In fact, the hedge fund manager said, there are good openings for discerning investors.
"I don't think it's a time to panic, I think it's actually a time where you've got opportunities out there. Invest in solid companies and you'll end up doing pretty well," Lasry said.
These strong companies may look a lot more domestically focused that the recent spate of high flying multinationals, he projected.
"The problem has been that over the last couple years, everybody's been focused on Asia to fund their growth, and everybody was saying you need to be a multinational company — that's where you want to be investing," he said. "Now you're seeing that shift, and you'll see that the companies that focus on the U.S., or have the majority of their earnings coming out of the U.S., those are going to grow."
He added that Europe-focused countries may also see a similar boost.
The one thing to remember about the Chinese stock market is that it operates so differently from U.S. and European markets. First off, the China market is dominated by retail investors, who treat it very much like a casino. Look at this chart:
2008 is quickly becoming the talk of 2016.
Speaking at a conference Thursday, legendary investor George Soros said challenges facing the current global economy remind him of the 2008 crisis. And while he seemed to mainly refer to China's struggles, Soros isn't the only one drawing comparisons.
A lot of milestones have spurred similar memories domestically. In 2015, several U.S. stock indexes saw their worst returns in seven years, including the S&P 500, Dow Jones industrial average, Dow Jones transportation average and the small-cap Russell 2000.
Corporate profits are also looking dismal in comparison to the past several years. S&P 500 quarterly earnings declined year over year for the first time since 2009. Revenue for reporting companies in 2015 saw three consecutive quarters of declines, which last occurred in 2008-2009.
Market watchers have also seen warning signs in high-yield bonds, which tumbled in 2015 to close out their worst year since ... you guessed it, 2008.
And among all the market pains, star investors such as Warren Buffett are posting their biggest losses since then. Hedge funds in general suffered this year, with the third quarter of 2015 seeing the worst average quarterly performance since 2008, according to HFR.
Read More With stocks tanking, should investors dash to cash?
So with all the bad news piling on, is now the time to panic?
Comparisons to the financial crisis can hit a nerve with investors, who are eager to avoid repeating the days of a plummeting market and a global recession. However, some data points may be more worrisome than others. If many areas of the market struggled in 2015, it would logically follow that stock pickers would also do poorly.
High-flying Apple has drawn attention recently for posting its stock's first annual loss since 2008. While the tech giant influences the S&P 500 more than other names as the largest stock in the market-cap-weighted index, one stock alone may not be the best gauge of the market. Apple's troubles have also been attributed to slowing iPhone sales and a lag in recent innovation.
But significant underperformance in the Dow transports is often seen as an indicator of economic weakness. High-yield bonds, which often move in direct correlation with stocks, also spurred concern that the stock market could follow last year's plunge.
According to Dennis Davitt of Harvest Volatility Advisors, the awareness alone of these comparisons may be enough to prevent another 2008-like scenario.
"In 2008, the biggest problem was we thought we had no risk. If you don't have the perception of risk, you tend to do riskier things," Davitt said Tuesday on "Trading Nation." "I think nowadays, we are way more aware of the risk in the marketplace."
But some believe that investors have been shrugging off such warnings, which may be its own reason for concern. While Nicholas Colas of Convergex doesn't foresee another financial crisis scenario, he said the 2008 conversation is worth having.
Read More No, stocks aren't cheap just yet
"You can see the arguments," Colas told CNBC in a phone interview Friday. "You have things that were very highly valued: commodities two years ago and equities through the past year. You're seeing those bubbles deflate, and no one knows where that path leads."
For Colas, the downturn in commodities prices is analogous to the housing bubble pop in the 2000s, and stocks may be next to fall. However, he said more volatility in the market will be the result of the normalization of interest rates, and not necessarily another crisis.
"We're coming off a very unique period of history," Colas said. "It doesn't surprise me in the least that we're seeing more volatility as a result. Does that volatility devolve into a 2008-style meltdown? I don't see it yet, but I understand the concern. We're in uncharted waters here."
At its worst, the market should see a crisis mimicking 1998, when stocks fell 20 percent over six weeks, rather than a 2008-style collapse, Gina Martin Adams of Wells Fargo wrote in a report on Thursday. Unlike 2008, the current market environment seems to be holding up well against pressure from commodities and slowing export and manufacturing activity, she said.
"As long as recessionary indicators do not rear their ugly head now is not the time to get defensive, in our view, but the time to look for opportunity amid the turmoil," she wrote.
According to Adams, recent market challenges such as low oil prices, a strong U.S. dollar and emerging markets turmoil are more akin to the 1998 correction than the financial crisis.
In fact, the recent recollections may have less to do with similarities and more to do with finding a convenient frame of reference after a multi-year bull market.
"2008 is just such an exceptional year, and hopefully a situation that we never see again," Stacey Gilbert of Susquehanna said on a Friday "Trading Nation" segment. "The only reason I think people refer to 2008 is, it's the most recent volatility event that we have, particularly for some of the more recent traders."
On a week filled with China concerns and market turmoil, one trader is making a massive bet that it's going to get a lot worse for emerging markets.
"The largest trade in the options market today was in the EEM, the emerging markets ETF," RiskReversal.com's Dan Nathan said Thursday, when one trader bought 100,000 of the June 25-strike puts in EEM for 62 cents per share. Since each options contract covers 100 shares of stock, this is a $6.2 million bet that breaks even if EEM is below $24.20 by June expiration.
So far in 2016, EEM has slid more than 7 percent. A drop to $24.20 would be another 19 percent drop from where the ETF traded on Friday.
Nathan said the next level of support for EEM should come in at $25. However, he said the large trade likely isn't an outright bearish bet, given the targeted expiration date and the out-of-the-money options traded.
Read MoreMohamed El-Erian: THIS dwarfs worries about China
"This is a likely a hedge against an emerging market portfolio, or maybe there's an investor who thinks that puts are the best bang for your buck as far as hedging is concerned," he said on CNBC's "Fast Money."

If news from China gets worse, the EEM is likely to suffer further, given that China holdings make up more than 25 percent of fund's holdings.
If we've learned anything so far in 2016, it's that we still have a lot to learn about how financial markets are going to behave in a new monetary era.
What was supposed to work — bank and consumer discretionary and others that benefit in a rising rate environment — has not. What wasn't supposed to work — gold and utilities — has done well.
In other words, forget what you think you know. If the early part of the year is any indicator, and history tells us it well could be, get ready for an unpredictable ride ahead.
Read MoreTrader: This isn't like 2008 — but a correction IS coming
"It's a market where you probably should expect big ups and downs with some gains, but relatively muted gains," said Ed Keon, managing director and portfolio manager at QMA. "One of the things we've been urging people to do is be cautious about their expectations. If you think you're going to get a 10 percent average return on your stocks over time, that's probably a little aggressive."
The U.S. market is up, Europe is mixed, which can only be described as disappointing. U.S. futures and European markets were up going into the December jobs report and rallied briefly as that number came in well above expectations, but traders quickly sold into the rally.
The Federal Reserve may have gotten more ammunition to justify further rate hikes, CNBC's Jim Cramer said Friday.
The Bureau of Labor Statistics said the U.S. economy added 292,000 jobs last month, well above the Reuters estimate of 200,000.
"What I found beleaguering about this, even as I liked the number very much, is that there are probably a half-dozen people who will call Steve Liesman from the Fed … and say, 'Listen, this is more of a reason why we need to tighten,' " Cramer said on "Squawk on the Street."
Surprisingly strong jobs growth dashes some fears the U.S. is heading toward recession and leaves the Federal Reserve on track to raise interest rates — barring a global financial meltdown.
The 292,000 jobs created in December was a surprise to economists who were expecting closer to 200,000 nonfarm payrolls. The unemployment rate was unchanged at 5 percent, as expected, but average hourly wages were flat when economists expected a pickup of 0.2 percent.
"It's a report that says to the market, if you're worried about a recession, that's ridiculous. If you're worried about the Fed, there's nothing to worry about. It's the best of both worlds for the markets and the Fed," said John Canally, economist and market strategist at LPL Financial.
Read MoreWhoa! Job creation surges in December
While economists see soft U.S. growth at an average 1.3 percent for the fourth quarter, they see a return to growth of above 2 percent in the first quarter. Manufacturing has been a soft spot and ISM surveys show that it is in contraction.
Barclays said fourth quarter GDP was tracking at just 0.7 percent, after November wholesale inventories later Friday showed a drop of 0.3 percent and October was revised to reflect the same decline.
Friday's jobs report blew by expectations with nonfarm payrolls growing by 292,000 in December. That was 92,000 jobs above economists' expectations.
CNBC Pro, using the quantitative tool Kensho, ran the numbers to find which stocks to buy when the jobs report beats estimates.
Here is what we found.
Rough start to the new year? You're not alone. China's markets are gyrating, geopolitical tensions are heating up and oil is selling off again. It's not exactly the ringing in that investors may have been hoping for.
But don't despair. Using big data cruncher Kensho, we found some of the best historical trades at the start of new calendar years looking back over the past 20 years.
The first quarter is generally a positive one for stocks. The S&P 500 has traded positive 14 of the last 20 years in Q1, or 70 percent of the time.
Venture capital investor Ann Winblad, who won the Squawk Box Platinum Portfolio competition last year, believes cloud computing presents some of the biggest investment opportunities for her 2016 model portfolio.
"While we have been talking about the cloud for some time, large enterprises were in an awkward tween stage — somewhere between the old and new world, with in truth only a small percentage of their software on the cloud," she told CNBC Pro.
Read MorePro Talks: Tom Lee on how to beat market in 2016
Here are the names and why she's buying them in her own words.
Check out which companies are making headlines before the bell:
FedEx — European regulators have granted unconditional approval for FedEx's deal to acquire European delivery service TNT Express. U.S. regulators had granted approval back in November.
Cigna, Aetna — Jefferies upgraded Cigna to "buy" from "hold," saying investors can benefit from the health insurer's current risk/reward profile, and then roll their investment into Anthem when that company completes its $54 billion purchase of Cigna. At the same time, Jefferies cut Aetna to "hold" from "buy," citing pressure on Humana profit margins. Aetna is currently in the process of acquiring Humana in a $26 billion deal.
Microsoft — BMO rates Microsoft "outperform" in new coverage, saying it's among legacy companies giving the move to cloud-based services the proper urgency, and that it has advantages of scale over smaller, pure-play companies.
DuPont — The stock was upgraded to "outperform" from "market perform" at Bernstein, which said that although the structure of the merger between DuPont and Dow Chemical, could be better, it will still provide significant upside to both companies.
Kellogg — The cereal maker was upgraded to "outperform" from "underperform" at CLSA, saying Kellogg can grow earnings this year and next on bigger profit margins despite challenging conditions in the cereal market.
Boston Beer — Jefferies downgraded the maker of Sam Adams beer to "hold" from "buy," pointing to continued pressure in the beer market and shorter innovation cycles in lateral categories.
Urban Outfitters — The apparel retailer posted a two percent decline in comparable store sales for November and December. However, the parent of Urban Outfitters, Free People, and Anthropologie did make optimistic comments about the spring selling season, citing an improvement in inventory management.
The Container Store — The retailer posted a quarterly loss of four cents per share, surprising analysts who had expected a profit of five cents per share. Revenue was also below estimates, as was its 0.5 percent increase in same-store sales. The storage products seller also cut its forecast for the current year, as it invests in various ways to improve sales.
PriceSmart — PriceSmart reported quarterly earnings of 78 cents per share, missing estimates by five cents, with revenue also below forecasts. The warehouse club operator is seeing its results impacted by the devaluation of the Colombian peso, although its sales and profits are improving.
Bed Bath & Beyond — Bed Bath & Beyond earned $1.09 per share for its latest quarter, matching estimates, with the retailer's revenue also roughly in line. However, the home goods seller also gave current quarter earnings guidance below Street estimates, as it struggles with declining profit margins.
Gap — Gap reported a five percent drop in comparable-store sales for December, with numbers at Gap, Old Navy, and Banana Republic all lower for the month. That was a bigger drop than analysts had been predicting.
Time Warner — Time Warner extended the contract of Chief Executive Officer Jeff Bewkes by three years through 2020. Bewkes has served as CEO since 2008, and added the title of chairman a year later.
Avon Products — The cosmetics seller will cut an unspecified number of global technology jobs, after hiring Hewlett Packard Enterprise to oversee part of its technology functions.
Cirrus Logic — The chipmaker cut its revenue guidance for its December quarter, as demand for portable audio products weakened. Cirrus is among the key suppliers to Apple, with reports of slashed iPhone production weighing on shares of many Apple
Investors dumped stocks and fled for the safety of bonds in the week to Jan. 6 which saw $2.3 trillion wiped off global equity markets and the worst opening week for the S&P 500 index, Bank of America/Merrill Lynch (BAML) said on Friday.
Some $8.8 billion was pulled from equities, the largest outflow in 17 weeks, with the redemptions mainly concentrated in U.S. equity funds after the S&P 500 lost 4.9 percent in the first four trading days of 2016.
High quality government, municipal and investment grade bond funds were the big gainers, with some $3.3 billion of inflows. This was the highest in 11 weeks according to BAML's data, which also includes numbers from Boston-based research house EPFR Global.
Wall Street bears are roaring.
The Dow, S&P 500 and Nasdaq Composite have each fallen more than 5 percent to near correction territory this week as a tumultuous global selloff kicked off 2016. The Dow and S&P have now seen their worst start to a trading year in history, and one widely followed technician warns investors should prepare themselves for significant downside ahead.
"If this is going to be a bull market that continues overtime, then I think you could pull back to the breakout that occurred in 2013, which could take us toward 14,000 for the Dow and toward 1,600 on the S&P 500," Louise Yamada told CNBC's "Futures Now" on Thursday. "That would calculate to about 23 percent [from the high] which is a normal cyclical bear market."
Read MoreBob Doll: No bear market this year
A move to those levels would account to a more-than-17 percent drop from the S&P 500's current level of around 1,945 and nearly 16 percent move lower than the Dow's current level of around 16,573.
Goldman Sachs has lowered its S&P 500 earnings forecast and highlighted key issues for 2016 that investors should watch out for in the year ahead.
Goldman's U.S. equity team, led by chief U.S. equity strategist David Kostin, said in a note late on Thursday that it was lowering its S&P 500 earnings per share (EPS) forecast by $3 to $106, $117, and $126 for 2015, 2016, and 2017.
The revision reflected annual EPS growth of -7 percent in 2015, +11 percent in 2016 and +8 percent in 2018, the note stated, with the strategists expecting that 2015 was "the worst year for S&P 500 earnings since 2008."
Goldman said the energy sector was "the leading driver of its reduced profit outlook" and expected the sector to post a decline in operating EPS for the first time in 48 years. Energy companies in the U.S., and elsewhere, have taken a beating on the global decline in oil prices which have hit 12-year lows of around $32 this week.
U.S. stocks posted their worst first four days to start a year ever. If this vicious sell-off continues, where can investors preserve capital?
Traders don't watch the Dow Jones industrial average when gauging the amount of fear in the marketplace. They look at the CBOE Volatility Index, also known as the VIX.
On Thursday, volatility traded at around the 25 mark, an extreme level last seen during the market swoon last summer.
Read More How bad? Strategist says up to 25% drop ahead
Global stock markets have endured a rough start to 2016. One metric shows just how brutal a year it has been so far.
The S&P Global Broad Market Index, which tracks global stock performance, has lost $2.23 trillion in market value this year. For perspective, the total trumps estimated U.S. student loan debt of more than $1 trillion and would represent roughly 12 percent of U.S. government debt.
Stark drops in Chinese markets, sliding crude oil prices and geopolitical concerns, among other factors, have contributed to selling across the globe.
The "Fast Money" traders delivered their final trades of the day.
Dan Nathan was a seller of Wal-Mart.
Steve Grasso was a buyer of American Eagle Outfitters.
Brian Kelly was a seller of Deutsche Bank.
Guy Adami was a buyer of the Market Vectors Gold Miners ETF  after picking Macy's three days in a row.
China's plunging currency worries investors because many consider the Chinese data unreliable, not to mention the huge stockpile of reserves, said Elsa Lignos, an RBC currency strategist, in a Thursday interview with CNBC's "Closing Bell."
"We had data overnight showing they used up over $100 billion in December alone," she said. "That has implications for other asset classes; the heavily invested in U.S. Treasuries" and currencies.
Amid these fears, market watchers are looking to invest in companies that will have fewer repercussions in the wake of China's volatile market.
On the exposure side, you have a lot of tech, industrial, material and the energy companies, said Paul Hickey, co-founder of Bespoke Investment Group.
"Qualcomm, Micron, Broadcom," he noted. "These chip-related companies have a lot of exposure there. While the band doesn't necessarily stem from China, they have a lot of their sales in China."
Market watchers may fear that China may ruin companies such as Apple, Starbucks and Tiffany, but Hickey suggests that investors look at valuations.
There was very little historical evidence for investors to go on when they navigated the market chaos on Thursday. Jim Cramer wished there were more analogues and patterns to look back on, because it can be helpful in times of turmoil.
"Right now we know the proximate cause behind the decline in our markets is China, more specifically the Chinese yuan devaluation and the breakdown of the Chinese stock market," the "Mad Money" host said.
Cramer thinks it is very likely that the Chinese market will open down 7 percent on Friday, which means that investors can expect the Shanghai composite to open at 2,900 Thursday night. That will take out its Aug. 26, 2015, low of 2,927.
So what does that mean for U.S. investors?
The fear was palpable in the stock market on Thursday. Jim Cramer called it an emotional beast, and that beast was a bear, not a bull.
"This is the most high anxiety market I can recall since the great European crisis of 2011, although not as horrendous as 2008," the "Mad Money" host said.
Often when investors are scared they sell. And that is exactly what happened to stocks on Thursday.
The average stock in the S&P 500 is now 20 percent from its highs. Technically, stocks have been declining for a long time now, with only a select few overvalued names making the averages look better than they actually are. Things are very fragile right now.
"You can wonder if we are beginning to be in a bear market, but that is the definition of a bear market," Cramer said. (Tweet This)
Oil broke down again to levels not seen since the Great Recession on Thursday, but Jim Cramer wasn't worried.
The last time oil traded in the low $30s was in December 2008. However, that swoon was caused by a decline in demand, thus Cramer did not consider this to be a fair comparison. Current issues stem from a massive supply glut, which remind Cramer more of the early 2000s, when crude was plentiful and traded at $20 a barrel.
What happens if oil returns to those levels?
"I would bet that many of the independent oil companies I follow could spiral into oblivion. Lots of the master limited partnerships would eliminate or slash their distributions. Many natural gas companies would file for reorganization," the "Mad Money" host said.
But maybe, just maybe, it could also raise earnings estimates for 80 percent of the S&P 500.
Slowing Chinese growth isn't necessarily going to trigger a worldwide depression, Drew Matus, UBS chief U.S. economist said Thursday as stocks tumbled after a second circuit-breaker trading suspension in Chinese stocks this week.
"There's evidence that weakness overseas hurt us before, but there's no evidence of new weakness from overseas and there's no evidence of an actual impact on the U.S. economy, so this all seems to be a sentiment-driven financial markets story, rather than a real economy story," Matus told CNBC's "Worldwide Exchange."
Even after a brutal few days for markets, stocks don't look to be cheap. But on the other hand, it's not as if the market is in a bubble.
A peek at the S&P 500's valuation shows that the markets are trading in line with recent average valuations. The S&P's current price is about 15.8 times the earnings analysts expect to see from S&P 500 companies over the next year, according to FactSet. This is exactly in line with the average forward price-to-earnings multiple going back to the beginning of 2000, and a bit lower from the average multiple seen over the past two years.
There are about as many ways to gauge where stocks are going as there are investors. But at the most basic level, a stock is simply an ownership stake in a company, which gives the owner of that stock residual rights to some of that company's profits. This is why determining whether a stock is expensive or cheap often comes down to assessing how much that company is likely to earn, and then seeing how many times that number investors are being asked to pay.
Using consensus analyst estimates is a way of allowing the experts do that difficult first part for you. A forward P/E metric simply takes that number and compares it to the current price. And the same may be done with an index, by aggregating and weighting earnings estimates and using the index price.
Read MoreBob Doll: No bear market this year
Falling oil prices are not the bellwether for the global economy they once were, and a rebound will only come when producers seriously cut back on the amount they are pumping.
"The weakness in oil prices is not telling us the economy is collapsing. It's just that there's way too much oil," said Ethan Harris, head of North America economics at Bank of America Merrill Lynch. "Only a small part of that is that demand is weakened. It's not telling us about global spending. There's just too much supply."
The world is currently oversupplied by an estimated 1.5 to 2 million barrels a day, thanks to hefty production by the three largest producers — Saudi Arabia, Russia, and the U.S. — and incremental new barrels by producers such as Iraq.
U.S. crude futures fell to $32.10 a barrel on Thursday, their lowest level since 2003. The Energy Information Administration said U.S. oil production has been running at about 9.2 million barrels a day, under its all-time high of 9.6 million, but a steady and high level given the impact on producers of sharply lower price.
The U.S. may be in less for a bout of Asian flu than it is for a pretty bad fever. For investors, though, the symptoms will feel similar.
Trouble in China has sent global markets stumbling out of the gate in 2016, with the S&P 500 down about 4 percent and worries rising that things could get even worse.
As for the broader economy, importing a recession would be a first for the U.S. That's one reason most economists don't expect a full-blown case of the "Asian Flu" that bedeviled the world in 1998, with China's slowdown instead part of a larger puzzle.
Read MoreChina and its currency: 'They're riding a bronco'
"The U.S. economy has been slowing for the past 18 months. To a large extent, that slowdown is reflective of what's going on in China," said Steve Blitz, chief economist at ITG Investment Research. "We need to understand that in an interconnected world, there's no such thing as segregating out one sector of the economy."
That sector which Blitz referred to is energy, and for much of the past year ignoring weakness there became a popular mantra among economists and Wall Street strategists.
Deepening concerns over the health of China's economy have sent the Shanghai Composite on a rollercoaster ride this week. And there may be more pain to come.
Check out the companies making headlines after the bell Thursday:
Shares of the Container Store tanked after the retailer reported a miss on both earnings and revenue for the third quarter. The company posted a loss of 4 cents per share while Wall Street was expecting earnings of 5 cents a share. Revenues came in it at $197 million as opposed to the $200 million estimated.
Gap stock also dropped sharply in after-hours trading. The apparel retailer reported that its net sales for the five-week period ending on Jan. 2 decreased 4 percent to $2.01 billion. For the same period last year, the company's net sales were $2.1 billion. Gap's comparable sales for December 2015 were down 5 percent versus a 1 percent increase last year.
As Apple continues to plunge on China economic worries and yet another report of a large cut in iPhone 6S production, technical analysts are eyeing key chart levels to predict what will happen next for the shares.
The theory behind technical analysis is that when prices reach previous levels where participants bought and sold in volume, those levels can be areas of support. However, the levels can also signal further downside if broken.
"The market has memory. Historic levels of supply tend to be recognized by market participants in the future when these prices are tested once again," J.C. Parets, Eagle Bay Capital's president, said.
CNBC Pro asked several chart experts to analyze the current prospects for Apple after the recent volatility. Here is what they said:
Why are U.S. investors doing a better job of keeping their heads about them as the rest of the world threatens to lose theirs?
As intense selling sped from China's erratic markets this week and tore through the European trading day, the damage to American stocks has been relatively modest.
The Shanghai market has shed 13 percent this week and trading was halted minutes into the day to stem the liquidation. The German equity index is off 7 percent in the year's first four trading days. Yet the Standard & Poor's 500 index has given up "only" 3.8 percent.
The stock market looks like it's in a "free fall," Raymond James strategist Jeffrey Saut said Thursday as global stock markets were sinking after a second circuit-breaker trading suspension in Chinese equities this week.
"I wish I could have predicted it. But as you know I was calling for a Santa Claus rally and a pretty strong end to [2015]," Saut said on CNBC, referring to his Dec. 15 call on "Squawk Box" for a "rip your face off-type rally." He had accurately predicted the August bottom days before it happened.
Read MoreTrader warns Fed not to repeat a Depression-era mistake
On Thursday, Saut blamed a "cacophony of exogenous events" for derailing the traditional year-end rally and leading to the worst start to a new year on Wall Street since 2008.
It all began with "the $1.2 trillion options and futures expiration" on quadruple-witching Friday on Dec. 18, Saut said. "That upset the rhythm of the rally. But we gathered our strength and came back the next week. And then you've been hit by this potential war between Saudi Arabia and Iran, the Chinese slowdown, and the 'H-bomb' of North Korea."
"The markets look like they're in a free fall right here," he said. "It feels like we're in one of those selling stampedes, and they typically last 17 to 25 sessions. And this would be only session six. I would be more cautious here."
Read MoreGartman: It's definitely a bear market this time
Just days after Saut's August call on CNBC, the Dow Jones industrial average, the S&P 500 index, and the Nasdaq composite index hit their closing lows of 2015.
Saut said he made that summer swoon prediction based on a proprietary market timing model, which also signaled a top in late October. That also turned out to be correct within days.
Read MoreSoros: It's the 2008 crisis all over again
Our live blog is tracking a global market sell-off following a 7 percent drop in Chinese shares overnight. It triggered newly-introduced circuit breaker, halting trade in Chinese shares for the second time this week.
U.S. stocks traded sharply lower following the news but pared earlier losses after the China Securities Regulatory Commission suspended its circuit breaker system. Stocks took another leg down after a report that China wants a quick, sharp currency decline.
We'll bring you the latest developments below.
What do crude oil and a baseball game have in common? OPIS founder Tom Kloza said it's the need for a closer to come in and save the day.
"I'm not sure we have Mariano Rivera out there with everything that's happening in China with some of the collateral damage from watching financial markets drop 4, 5, 6 percents each day," he told CNBC's "Fast Money: Halftime Report" on Thursday.
Oil hit new 12-year lows on Thursday but Kloza said it could soon drop even more.
Billionaire investor Mark Cuban is "doing nothing" about the market sell-off.
In his latest note to his "dusters"—a term for users of the Cyber Dust app that he advises and funds—Cuban revealed his investment strategy.
China suspended its recently implemented circuit-breaker system Thursday, hours after trading in Chinese stocks was halted minutes into the session because of a plunge in prices.
The system also led to a trading halt on Monday amid selling, sparking a global sell-off in stocks. On Thursday, the circuit breaker kicked in after 29 minutes of trading, when the CSI300 plunged more than 7 percent.
The China Securities Regulatory Commission has used the halts and other measures to control downward pressure amid volatility. However, some observers felt the system as designed could have increased investor jitters about the health of markets.
The Dow Jones industrial average fell more than 300 points in opening trade Thursday but regained some of those losses after China's announcement.
What to watch for on Friday:
1) China ETFs for a hint of how China might trade tomorrow. ETFs that track overseas stocks are forward-looking pricing mechanisms, not backward-looking. ETFs that track mainland China (ASHR, for example), were down 8 percent at the open, but rallied right after the U.S. open as the Chinese government announced they were suspending circuit breakers there.
They have cut those losses by more than 40 percent midday, but at down roughly 5 percent still anticipate a down open in China.
2) December nonfarm payrolls tomorrow will be a good sign of what the Fed might do short-term.  Remember, the trading community is pricing in two, at most three, rate hikes next year. But the Fed consensus is closer to four rate hikes. Right now markets seem to be pricing in a roughly 40 percent chance of a rate hike in March. A number well above consensus (currently 210,000) might very well be met with a negative reaction.
3) A spike in volatility. The CBOE Volatility Index is elevated at 24 (up from 17-18 at the end of the year), but not that much. That contract--which reflects volatility expectations 30 days out—is higher than VIX futures contracts several months out, most of which are around 20.
This condition, known as "backwardation" is unusual for the VIX, and suggests investors think this elevated volatility is not a permanent feature.
As for the absolute level...now at 24...I think it's likely the VIX would be substantially higher (over 30) if there was a feeling that this was all about the U.S., rather than China.
Amid another market rout, it's time for investors to look for buying opportunities.
Markets plunged yet again Thursday morning after a sharp sell-off in Chinese stocks prompted China to halt trading early for the second time this week. It's the latest wave in a rough first week of 2016, which had the worst opening day in eight years.
Advisors' broad advice to investors remains the same: Hold on.
The impact of China's most recent market sell-off can be witnessed across the globe, and especially in the U.S. technology sector.
Read MoreChinese actions exacerbating the sell-off
Many U.S. tech companies have revenues and sales tied to China. Apple, for example, saw robust iPhone sales growth in the Asian nation during 2015.
"There are many that are going to get hammered and it will be a big problem for tech stocks — no question about it," said Eric Schiffer, founder of Patriarch Private Equity, in an interview with CNBC on Thursday.
China is playing a dangerous game with its currency, moves that could send the global economy into recession.
China's control-minded central bank allowed the biggest fall in the yuan in five months on Thursday, roiling global markets and sparking new fears about Asia's largest economy. Trading in the country's stock markets was suspended for the day after only 29 minutes.
Part of the fear driving those markets lower is that investors are struggling to understand the People's Bank of China's goals — with official statements pointing to an apparent policy struggle between conservative stability and liberalizing reform.
"They have a problem, and they don't like any of the options available to them," said Patrick Chovanec, managing director and chief strategist at Silvercrest Asset Management.
China has become a scapegoat for U.S. stock weakness, but equities will struggle to rise this year because of the American economy, widely followed bear Marc Faber said Thursday.
"The U.S. economy is weakening and weakening much more than is perceived," the Gloom, Boom & Doom Report publisher told CNBC's "Fast Money: Halftime Report."
Stark drops in Chinese stocks triggered trading halts twice this week, fueling concerns about a slowdown there and contributing to selling around the globe. But China is not the reason U.S. stocks "are unlikely to make new highs this year," Faber contended.
"It has nothing to do at all with China," he said.
A tumultuous start to 2016 sent volatility surging this week.
The CBOE volatility index spiked above 20 for the first time since mid-December, as U.S. equities saw their worst start to a year since 2008. Despite the burst in volatility, some options traders are betting that better days could be ahead.
On CNBC's "Fast Money" Wednesday, Mike Khouw noted that as global equities have tumbled this week, there's been an abundance of put activity in the VIX. "When you are making bearish bets on the VIX, then you are making bullish bets on the S&P 500," said Khouw. The S&P 500, which is inversely correlated with the VIX, is trading at its lowest level since October 2015.
Read MoreSoros: It's the 2008 crisis all over again
Overnight weakness in China resulted in the second trading halt of the week in that country's market. Circuit breakers were triggered after just 29 minutes — the shortest session it's ever had.
Is this a sign that China doesn't know how to manage its market? According to CNBC's Jim Cramer, that's exactly what it means.
"They obviously don't really know how to handle their own markets. Remember, they are playing it by ear," he told CNBC's "Squawk on the Street" on Thursday. "You have to expect, unless they do something, it will be down 7 percent again, because you can't bounce. No market can bounce."
As global markets crater on fears of a China economic slowdown, you need to know which U.S stocks can weather this storm.
There are five widely held blue chips that can make it through a China-fueled bear market.
CNBC Pro, using the quantitative tool Kensho, found the stocks in the Dow Jones industrial average that fall the least when the Chinese equities plunge.
Here they are…
Here we go again.
Global markets are selling off on more uncertainty and stock market volatility in China. Investors may wonder which U.S. stocks are most at risk if the plunging shares are presaging more economic calamity in the Asian country.
The Shanghai composite traded down more than 7 percent overnight before the market was halted for trading for the rest of the session.
Some on Wall Street have been all over this concern. Goldman Sachs' MK Tang wrote a Dec. 2 note to clients predicting a continued slowdown this year:
"Looking into 2016, we expect China's economic conditions to remain challenging and growth to continue a 'bumpy deceleration.' Structural issues such as overcapacity and the debt overhang are weighing on domestic demand, and the external sector seems fragile as well."
Tang expected the imbalances in China's economy to get worse before getting better. Years of over-investment led to too much capacity in several sectors of the economy, which will take time to shut down.
If this analysis is correct, it may be prudent for investors to avoid companies with high sales exposure in China. CNBC Pro ran a search for stocks that have such risk. Here's what we found.
Bob Doll of Nuveen says it's not likely stocks are heading into a bear market this year.
He says it's very much like August when the market was nervous that Chinese authorities did not have a grip on policy and markets were reflecting that.
"If a bear market means the market is going down 20 percent, I don't think we're going to be down 20 percent this year. Could we be down? Yes. But I think it's more likely we will be down modestly, " he said.
In August, the sentiment on China was "It doesn't know what it's doing. They're having technical issues around the markets. Their currency is falling. There's the unanticipated devaluation. Commodity prices were going down, and people were concerned they weren't able to control it, and the world would be in a deflationary spiral," said Doll, senior portfolio manager and chief equity strategist at Nuveen.
Bitcoin, the world's most popular digital currency, has skyrocketed despite a floundering global market.
The currency dipped to $312 in November — after jumping more than 70 percent in October to $410 — but has steadily risen to more than $450 in the last two months.
Bitcoin was up 6 percent on Thursday morning, after opening at $429.
U.S. oil prices  of around $20 per barrel could still happen, Citigroup's Ed Morse, said Thursday as crude briefly hit 12-year lows of just over $32 per barrel.
"You never know where the bottom is," Morse told CNBC's "Squawk Box." He said the recent tumble has been more severe than he'd anticipated. "We think the pressure is still going to be on for lower prices," he added.
West Texas Intermediate crude was falling around 3 percent early Thursday, after a decline of 5.5 percent on Wednesday.
China's stock rout this week sparked new concerns about a slowdown in the world's second-largest economy and what that might mean for global oil demand at a time of near-record production and massive crude stockpiles.
Read MoreOil slides further as China turmoil rattles investors
"The market is itself much more fragile than the price of oil would indicate," said Morse, Citi's global head of commodities research. He added that any supply disruptions due to political uncertainty in Venezuela, Nigeria or Iraq, for example, could just as easily send oil prices higher.
"We have like a 95 million barrel-per-day market. And maybe, a million and a half barrels a day of oversupply right now. That's 2 percent — 2 percent at a time when the Saudis are producing all out," he said.
Noting that narrow oversupply margin, oil magnate T. Boone Pickens told CNBC Wednesday that it would not take much to balance the oil market.
Read MoreBoone Pickens to Cramer: Oil is close to bottoming
Morse agreed with Pickens on that point. "We think the market is going to balance ... by the end of the year." To get there, Morse predicted that production will finally be cut, with U.S. producers bearing the brunt of the lost output.
Nothing focuses the attention like a market rout. The Dow has already suffered its worst start to a trading year since 2008, and the stock-selling stampede looks set to deepen.
China suspended trading abruptly on its stock market for the second time this week. Markets shut within 30 minutes of opening, after a fall of 7 percent.
At the same time, stock market movers in the U.S., like Apple, Macy's and Amazon, dropped significantly with worries about everything from layoffs to slowing production and global market contraction.
Analysts are now wondering if we are at a tipping point, marking the end of the long bull market. So if you haven't made some tough new year's investment resolutions, better get to it.
The latest fall in China's equity market is not the root cause for Thursday's broad-based sell-off, Dennis DeBusschere of Evercore ISI said Thursday.
"The cause is … we have weak global growth, we have high multiples globally and, I would argue, there is some delusions of control with regards to the Chinese economy that they could continue to drive some type of global growth that would support everything," the firm's macro research analyst told CNBC's "Squawk Box."
Global financial markets skidded after Chinese equities tumbled 7 percent in the first 29 minutes of trading Thursday. The plunge in China triggered circuit breakers that halted trading there.
"The contagion is the concern here," Liz Ann Sonders, chief investment strategist at Charles Schwab, said in another "Squawk Box" interview. "At this point, it looks somewhat similar to what we saw in August. I think the fact that it happens to correspond to the beginning of a year probably adds to the angst."
North Korea's reported nuclear bomb test was the latest addition to a string of geopolitical worries for global investors. The U.S. markets could get a boost as capital flees Asia and Europe for a country with a relatively stable economy and tightening monetary policy.
Some stocks in particular, those more correlated with a strong domestic economy, could see the biggest lift.
CNBC Pro, using the quant tool Kensho, searched for the stocks that do the best when capital flows into the U.S., causing the dollar to rise in the process.
Here is what we found.
Federal Reserve  chief Janet Yellen and company find themselves at a crossroads that could determine whether the stock market and the U.S. economy may suffer a fate not seen since the Great Depression, BK Asset Management's Boris Schlossberg said Thursday.
The December interest rate hike by the Fed, the first such move in a decade, might not prove a fatal misstep, he told CNBC's "Squawk Box" on a day when global markets were slammed after the shortest trading day in China's 25-year stock trading history. Twenty-nine minutes into Thursday's session, a 7 percent drop in Chinese equities triggered an automatic suspension of trading for the second time this week.
Read MoreSoros: It's the 2008 crisis all over again
Against a backdrop of renewed concerns about the world's second-largest economy, Schlossberg said of the Fed's approach to future rates: "One and done is OK. It's not that damaging."
But he warned that further increases would be a "huge 1937-type of mistake." In 1937, the Fed raised rates after Depression-era stimulus programs, sparking a further economic downturn.
"We're in a real serious pickle now. There's little policy flexibility left," Schlossberg said amid questions about whether Fed policymakers may have to reverse course and cut rates. "This is going to be the year to sell rallies, not to buy dips."
Read MoreFed's Fischer: Markets missing mark on future rates
With geopolitical concerns dominating the headlines — from North Korea's apparent nuclear test to a Chinese government desperately trying to stop its stock market from falling — investors are scrambling to find the best safe haven trades out there for 2016.
CNBC Pro searched for the stocks that investors clamor to when times get tough. Using Kensho, a hedge fund quant trading tool, we looked for the equities that traded higher when U.S. government bonds, the safest securities out there, increased in value.
So, which names do investors buy alongside their purchase of Treasuries?
Here is what we found.
Check out which companies are making headlines before the bell:
KB Home — The home builder reported quarterly profit of 43 cents per share, 7 cents below estimates, with revenue also shy of forecasts. KB Home did see a 16 percent in new home deliveries in 2015, to its highest total since 2009, with average selling prices up 8 percent.
J.C. Penney — The retailer reported a 3.9 percent increase in comparable-store sales for the 2015 holiday shopping season, and also said it would generate positive free cash flow for fiscal 2015.
Walgreens Boots Alliance — The drug store operator reported quarterly profit of $1.03 per share, beating estimates by 7 cents, though revenue was slightly below forecasts. The company said its bottom line was helped by its ongoing effort to control costs.
Finish Line — The athletic footwear and apparel retailer lost an adjusted 49 cents per share for its latest quarter, much larger than the 4 cent loss anticipated by analysts. Revenue was also below forecasts, and Finish Line said it would close up to 150 stores, about 25 percent of its base, over the next four years. It did, however, announce an 11 percent increase in its quarterly dividend.
Constellation Brands — The spirits maker earned an adjusted $1.42 per share for its latest quarter, 12 cents above estimates, while revenue was slightly above forecasts. The company also increased its 2016 outlook based on strong results for its beer business.
HP Inc. — The printer and personal computer maker was downgraded at Wells Fargo to "market perform" from "outperform," which cited a lack of positive catalysts for 2016.
Southwest Airlines – Morgan Stanley upgraded the airline to "equal-weight" from "underweight," citing a recent pullback and improved pricing among other factors.
21st Century Fox — Fox Sports has reportedly put in a substantial bid for the National Football League Thursday night football package, according to TheStreet.com. Disney's ABC unit is said to be considering a bid as well for the package, which is currently held by CBS, but hasn't done so yet.
Wells Fargo — Citi upgraded Wells Fargo to "buy" from "neutral," seeing the stock at more attractive level following the recent pullback in bank stocks as a whole. Citi also said Wells Fargo faces less earnings risk than its peers.
Macy's — The retailer cut its financial outlook after a poor holiday season, and said it would cut more than 2,000 jobs.
Zumiez — Zumiez boosted its revenue and earnings guidance for the current quarter as its sales increase more than expected. Zumiez is a retailer of snowboarding and other action sports equipment.
Morgan Stanley — The firm named investment banking chief Colm Kelleher as its president, putting him in line to eventually succeed Chief Executive James Gorman.
United Continental — The airline's Chief Executive Oscar Munoz underwent a heart transplant, but the airline does expect him to return to his post sometime this spring.
Time Warner Cable — The cable operator said about 320,000 customers may have had their passwords stolen, likely through malware delivered through phishing attacks. The cable operator said there is no indication that its own systems were breached.
Yahoo — Yahoo is planning to cut 10 percent or more of its workforce, according to a report in Business Insider. Yahoo declined comment on the report, which said more than 1,000 people would be cut from various Yahoo businesses.
T-Mobile US — The wireless carrier is under scrutiny for its labor practices, accused by the Communications Workers of America of ignoring employee rights and engaging in illegal work practices. T-Mobile has denied those allegations.
Apple — Chief Executive Officer Tim Cook's compensation rose 11.5 percent to $10.3 million for 2015. Apple's sales and profits saw double-digit increases last year, but its share price fell for the first time since 2008.
Despite an especially dour beginning to the year, stocks are far from ready to bounce, according to technical analyst Chris Verrone of Strategas Research Partners.
"The market is not oversold here — at all," Verrone said Tuesday on CNBC's "Power Lunch."
One problem with seeing the market as oversold is that 40 percent of the stocks he tracks are above their average closing price over the past 50 sessions, and "you tend to get oversold conditions when that number's less than 20."
But there's also a much more obvious reason why playing for a short-term bounce would be folly, in his opinion. Even amid the recent volatility, as of Tuesday's close, the S&P 500 is just 5.5 percent away from its all-time intraday high, which was found back in May.
"You can't get a bottom near a top," Verrone advised.
The "Fast Money" traders gave their final trades of the day.
Steve Grasso was a buyer of Altria.
Brian Kelly was a seller of BlackRock.
Karen Finerman was a buyer of Oak Capital.
Guy Adami was a buyer of Macy's for the third day in a row.
The agony of the oil patch continued Wednesday when crude fell to levels not seen since December 2008 — leading Jim Cramer to ask when the pain would finally come to an end.
That is why Cramer turned to the insight of oil magnate, financier and philanthropist T. Boone Pickens, to discuss the future of energy for the U.S.
The recent rout in oil has prompted many investors to ask what could be in store for 2016, as many speculate that crude will continue to trade in the $30s for the foreseeable future.
As a sell-off plagued the markets on the first trading day of the year, Internet stocks saw a steep downturn.
Amazon fell more than 7 percent over the week and its fellow large cap Internet stocks followed suit, leaving investors wondering if these names can maintain their performance record into 2016.
Heath Terry, head of Internet equity research at Goldman Sachs, told CNBC's "Squawk Alley" that this scenario is a return to what Internet stocks looked like for most of the Internet's first 10 years of existence.
Check out the companies making headlines after the bell Wednesday:
Macy's stock whipsawed after the bell, dipping sharply before making a steep recovery. The company reported November and December comparable sales that fell 5.2 percent and cut its fourth-quarter and 2015 earnings-per-share guidance. Macy's CEO Terry Lundgren blamed unseasonably warm weather for weak sales. The retail giant also announced restructuring measures to be implemented early this year, including job cuts and store closings.
Shares of competing retailer Nordstrom rose in after-hours trading. On Tuesday, Citi downgraded its shares to "neutral" from buy," saying Nordstrom's best-in-class positioning wouldn't be able to bear the challenges department stores are currently facing.
Netflix shares continued to edge up after rallying nearly 10 percent in the regular session. The streaming platform  celebrated its launch of service in 130 new countries on Wednesday.
Another ugly day. Crude not finding a base, the North Korea nuclear test, and China set its currency fix lower. Take your pick.
Crude remains a major problem. We were in the middle of a midday rally going into noon, but another leg down in oil caused a predictable drop in energy, industrials, and materials.
This is three days in a row, and what is most remarkable is that the volume for all three days has only been modestly elevated. In other words, one of the hallmarks of a capitulation bottom—a volume surge—is not happening. Instead, we are getting a buyer's strike. When there is no interest in buying, moderate selling drops stocks notably until buyer interest perks up.
This is consistent with feedback I am hearing from trading desks: activity is not that high.
Regardless: you can go broke on low volume, as the old trader saw goes. There has been lots of technical damage in the first three days of the year. The Dow Transports hit a 52-week low, but several other indices are very close.
The S&P Mid Cap 400, where many airlines and home builders reside, is only 0.9 percent from a 52-week low, while the small-cap Russell 2000 is not far behind, 1.5 percent from a 52-week low.
The large cap indices have fared better, with the S&P 500 6.5 percent away from new lows.
Not surprisingly, there was an expansion of new lows, with about 260 on the NYSE. Most of the new low damage, predictably, was in energy and industrials.
In short, 2016 looks a lot like 2015: sell commodity stocks and global Industrials, with buying (or much less selling) in consumer staples and health care. Bonds act well, dollar acts well.
I hated 2015.
Federal Reserve policymakers decided to raise interest rates last month after almost all of them gained confidence inflation was poised to rise, but some voiced worries inflation could get stuck at dangerously low levels.
"Nearly all participants were now reasonably confident inflation would move back to 2 percent over the medium term," the minutes of the Fed's Dec. 15-16 meeting released on Wednesday said.
But "some members said that their decision to raise the target range was a close call, particularly given the uncertainty about inflation dynamics."
Weak growth among major emerging markets will weigh on global expansion in 2016, according to the latest report from the World Bank, with advanced economies solely responsible for a modest increase in global activity.
According to the World Bank's "January 2016 Global Economic Prospects" report published Wednesday, economic growth in 2016 would pick up to a 2.9 percent pace, from 2.4 percent in 2015, despite weakness in emerging market economies.
Apple loyalists have made their case for the stock so many ways during its 24 percent slide since July: It's the most profitable company on earth.
The iPhone is the most successful consumer product in history. Apple Watch and Apple Pay give Tim Cook a claim on the future of communication and commerce.
The shares are unaccountably cheap based on today's earnings, tomorrow's prospects and $200 billion in cash reserves.
None of those have stemmed the stock's descent.
So how about this: Apple stock is a decent bond, with an ownership slice of a dominant tech company attached as a bonus.
For so many years, Apple could seemingly do no wrong in the eyes of investors. Of late, the opposite is true.
Shares of the iPhone maker have plunged 19 percent in the past six months, a stretch that's seen Alphabet, Facebook, Amazon.com and Microsoft each jump 18 percent to 45 percent. Apple dropped 2.6 percent on Tuesday to $102.71, the lowest close since October 2014, and briefly fell below $100 in premarket trading Wednesday. (It was down less than 2 percent as of midmorning.)
Investors are only paying 11.1 times earnings for the stock, 27 percent below the five-year average price-to-earnings ratio, according to FactSet. Meanwhile, Alphabet's market cap is as close as it's been to Apple's since 2010, with the two now separated by $55 billion.
One technical analyst is seeing even more pain coming for Apple.
Apple has fallen more than 4 percent in 2016, as concerns over iPhone orders and shipments weigh on investor sentiment. Looking at the charts, Rich Ross of Evercore ISI said several technical indicators will also pose challenges to Apple's share price, which may fall as much as 29 percent from its Wednesday levels.
(In early pre-market trading Thursday, the stock dropped another 3.4 percent amid a broad China-driven sell-off).
"Regardless of what you think of the stock, this is not a great chart here. The trend is down in the short term and intermediate term," Ross said Wednesday on CNBC's "Trading Nation."
Apple's stock looks to have formed a head-and-shoulders top, Ross said, a technical sign that the trend has turned downward after a brief move higher. Additionally, he said the stock has struggled to rise above its 200-day moving average since its August lows.

"That's telling you that the trend just might be down, and that head-and-shoulders top reinforces the gravity in that change," he said.
Read MoreApple stock is trading like a bond
At a minimum, Apple may test the low $90 level, Ross said. However, following the drop from its highs in 2015, he sees an even steeper potential fall to $72. Apple shares fell 2 percent on Wednesday to just above the $100 level.
Long term, Ross is still bullish on Apple. However, with no new products in the pipeline for months, he recommends stepping away from the shares for now.
"All is not lost in the stock here. The bigger trend remains higher in the long term. But with a new product not scheduled to be released until September, and the chart showing some real wear, I would be wary of Apple here," he said.
The Chinese government should add more stimulus to its economy in one fell swoop, instead of doing it in spurts, Scott Brown of Raymond James said Wednesday.
"The Chinese currency has a lot of downward pressure on it now. They're likely to see some move for depreciation by the central bank there," he told CNBC's "Squawk on the Street." "But it won't happen all at once. That might not be a good thing. If they did it all at once they could get it out of the way. It will be a major concern for investors off and on."
The yuan hit a record low against the dollar Wednesday.
Oil prices plunged to their lowest level in more than 11 years Wednesday, removing a floor for a commodity that's already down 29 percent in the past three months.
After a spike in gasoline inventories last week and the prospect of more oil production coming from Iran and Saudi Arabia, many traders said the bottom for crude won't come anytime soon.
With oil in free fall, trading at around $34 per barrel, where could investors place some bets?
Using Kensho, a quantitative tool that aims to replicate historic market events, CNBC Pro found the top-performing names when oil prices fell by at least 10 percent over a month — such a move occurred in 29 instances in the last decade.
Rocky geopolitics are sure to drive global markets in 2016, Peter Oppenheimer, chief global equity strategist at Goldman Sachs, said Wednesday.
"Political uncertainty at one level or another is one of the risks that we see of being quite high through the year, and that should be reflected quite high in risky premium and risky assets," Oppenheimer told CNBC's "Worldwide Exchange."
"The main view that we've had for this year is one of quite high volatility," he added.
He described his outlook for European equity markets as "fat and flat," with a broad trading range but relatively low returns.
Oppenheimer also pointed to China's pervasive effect on global markets, where wild swings in Chinese trading pushed markets in Asia lower this week.
Read MoreFed's Fischer: Markets missing mark on future rates
CNBC "Halftime Report" trader Jon Najarian has purchased shares of the Market Vectors Gold Miners ETF as a safe-haven trade on geopolitical concerns.
Here is what Najarian sees and the reasons he acquired it for his model portfolio.
The new year hasn't been terribly happy for asset managers, who collectively made a terribly wrong bet on the stock market.
During the last week of December, the group bought $8.6 billion worth of S&P 500 futures, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch. Managers made the long market bet as the stock index was closing a moribund year that concluded with a modest price loss and a gain of just 1 percent when factoring in dividends.
Hold onto your hats. Stock market volatility could get worse, a widely followed technician says.
U.S. stocks hit a three-month low Wednesday morning amid concerns of slowing growth in China and the uproar over North Korea's claim to have tested a hydrogen bomb. By late morning, the S&P 500 index  was around 2,000.
On Tuesday, Bank of America Merrill Lynch's Stephen Suttmeier said the S&P is in danger of dipping below 1,965, a key technical level that could unleash a torrent of selling.
"In 2011, you had pullback that retraced 61.8 percent of the rally off the low and it was held," Suttmeier said on CNBC's  "Fast Money,"
For the 2016 Halftime Report Portfolio Challenge, Jim Lebenthal seeks to capitalize on the poor start to the new year for stocks through the purchase of deep-value names from the industrial and energy sectors, two of the hardest-hit areas of the market.
The CEO of Lebenthal Asset Management believes he found stocks that are trading at bargain-basement valuations, but have improving fundamentals.
Here are his fresh ideas for the new year and his reasons for buying them...
The Federal Reserve might have to be more aggressive in raising interest rates if U.S. employment data remain strong, CNBC's Jim Cramer said Wednesday.
ADP said private employers in the U.S. added 257,000 jobs in December, well above the expected 192,000.
"As long as inflation is lower than the 2 percent and unemployment is somewhere around where it should be, there'll be a force requiring us to maintain an accommodative policy. As we get up to 2 and as the unemployment rate gets to what we think is the natural rate, or the full employment rate, we'll ... stop accommodating," Fed Vice Chairman Stanley Fischer told CNBC on Wednesday.
Traders have priced in a 10 percent chance for a rate hike on Jan. 27 and a 52 percent chance for a hike in March, according to the CME Group's FedWatch tool.
However, "his hand is being forced right now by incredible job data," Cramer said.
U.S. investors — as well as the Fed — will be looking at Friday's December jobs report.
It's an age-old investing question: Does a smart investor stick with winning stocks or bet on quality companies that have been beaten up and are on the rebound?
How about both?
Prominent investor Martin Sass is taking a cautious investment stance after being bullish for most of the market run since 2009.
The money manager, who oversees $7 billion in assets at M.D. Sass, a New York-based firm he founded in 1972, believes the market may now be treading on thin ice. Since 1999, the flagship strategy of Sass' firm has more than doubled the cumulative return of the S&P 500.
A combination of uncertainty over the path of interest rates, collapsing oil prices, pressure on illiquid junk bonds and decelerating growth in China could destabilize the market, according to Sass.
Read More Navellier: 'FANG,' ETFs among bubbles set to burst
Given those potential headwinds, the investor is maintaining most of his $100,000 in theoretical money for the CNBC Pro model portfolio in cash.
"I'm holding an unusually high 60 percent cash position in my CNBC Platinum Portfolio to protect against downside risks and to provide a reserve to capitalize on tactical opportunities during volatile sell-offs," wrote Sass.
The other 40 percent is invested among four stocks, which he believes can weather a rocky market run this year given their strong fundamentals.
Here are the names and why he is buying them in his words.
Check out which companies are making headlines before the bell:
Yahoo — Activist investor Starboard Value sent a letter to the Yahoo board, saying it has lost confidence in the ability of the company's board and management to create shareholder value and that significant changes are needed. (Disclosure: CNBC has a content-sharing partnership with Yahoo's finance site.)
Oracle — Oracle was upgraded to "buy" from "hold" at Evercore, saying the risks faced by the software giant are already reflected in the stock's price and that the promise of recurring revenue growth is attractive.
Lockheed Martin  — RBC upgraded the defense contractor's stock to "outperform" from "sector perform," helped by less government defense budget uncertainty.
Tyco International  — RBC downgraded Tyco to "sector perform" from "outperform," saying cyclical factors make the fire and security protection company less attractive, even though the firm still likes Tyco's business model.
Delta, United Continental, Southwest, American Airlines Group  — A new fare hike of up to $8 round-trip appears to be taking hold, with most of the major carriers instituting that increase.
Panera Bread — The restaurant chain said its chain-wide soup menu no longer contains artificial colors, flavors, sweeteners, or preservatives.
T-Mobile US — The wireless carrier said it added 8.3 million customers in 2015, its second consecutive year with subscriber additions above the 8 million mark.
SiriusXM — The satellite radio service announced it had added 2.3 million net subscribers during 2015. That was more than the two million the company had most recently forecast.
Yum Brands — Yum Executive Chairman and former CEO David Novak will retire in May. The restaurant operator will appoint a non-executive chairman from its board to replace Novak, with the announcement to come at its annual shareholder meeting.
Apple — Apple is under pressure once again following reports that it will cut production of the iPhone 6S and 6S Plus by about 30 percent during the current quarter.
General Motors  — The automaker announced a 5.2 percent increase in China sales for 2015. GM and its China joint venture partners sold a total of 3.61 million vehicles during the year.
Valeant Pharmaceuticals — The drug maker will reportedly appoint an interim chief executive officer to fill the shoes of Michael Pearson, who is currently hospitalized with pneumonia. Dow Jones reported it is not clear whether the person appointed would temporarily or permanently replace Pearson.
Verizon — Verizon has begun an auction to sell its data centers, according to Reuters. Citigroup is said to be advising Verizon on the possible sale, which the company hopes will garner more than $2.5 billion.
Sonic — Sonic reported quarterly profit of 24 cents per share, 1 cent above estimates, with the restaurant operator's revenue also exceeding Street forecasts. Same-restaurant sales were higher by 5.3 percent compared to a year earlier.
Precision Castparts — The European Commission approved the acquisition of the aerospace company by Berkshire Hathaway, saying the deal did not raise competition concerns.
Apple shares tanked on a report from Nikkei news that the company is planning to reduce output of the iPhone 6s by more than 30 percent this quarter.
CNBC Pro sought to find the stocks most correlated to bad news out of Cupertino, California.
Using hedge fund data tool Kensho, we looked at all the times in the last decade when Apple's stock fell 2 percent or more in a single day. This has occurred more than 200 times.
Below are the stocks in the Nasdaq 100 index that perform the worst when Apple shares decline.
Early January trading has been choppy and rough, and still unclear is whether 2016 is ringing in a correction or just more whiplash.
The answer to that could come in the next several weeks, when earnings season gets underway and investors weigh the corporate profit outlook against a market that many view as fully priced at 16 times future earnings. The market has been uneasy that weaker manufacturing activity in the U.S. could dampen corporate earnings in a bigger way.
So far, the markets have ushered in the new year with a whimper.
Falling Chinese stocks and soft manufacturing data led to a very weak first day of the year trading performance — the worst in eight years. Tuesday's gains were barely anything, leaving the S&P 500 still down 1.3 percent for the year — a truly uninspiring start to 2016.
But don't panic. This has happened before, and it usually ends fine. At least seven other years since 1978 have also started off with two days this bad or worse, and five ended up positive for the year. Four of those years — 1980, 1982, 1985 and 1992 — were up 10 percent or more.
The Big Crunch used S&P 500 historical data since 1978 to build a probability curve for each weekday of the year. It turns out that even with a year-to-date negative return in the summer, the chances of ending the year positive are still 50/50.
Hover on the interactive chart below to see the odds change during the course of the year. Notice it keeps going down — which makes sense. The longer the market stays negative during the course of the year, the harder it is to end up finishing positive. But being negative anytime in the first quarter still means there is a better than 50/50 chance of finishing positive.
Walt Disney shares slid Tuesday after a downgrade, but "Fast Money" traders were torn over whether the media giant is worth buying.
Macquarie downgraded Disney to "neutral" from "outperform," citing concerns about subscriber losses at sports network ESPN and a lack of catalysts after the recent release of box office darling "Star Wars: The Force Awakens." The stock closed the day about 2 percent lower.
Some agreed with the bearish sentiment. Trader David Seaburg contended it faces "too many headwinds" and is no longer "something you can buy and put away" as an investment.
Disney deserves a "premium valuation," but investors should question its price at current levels, added trader Tim Seymour, who owns the stock.
The "Fast Money" traders revealed their final trades of the day.
Tim Seymour was a buyer of Kimberly-Clark.
Steve Grasso was a buyer of Nvidia.
David Seaburg was a buyer of Burlington Stores.
And for the second day in a row, Guy Adami was a buyer of Macy's.