
A daily morning look at the financial stories you need to know to start the day.
STOCKS/ECONOMY
-Stock futures are solidly higher as tensions with North Korea seem to be easing.
-Japan's second-quarter GDP rose by an annualized 4 percent, topping estimates by a wide margin. But China fell short of expectations on industrial output, retail sales, and fixed output investment.
NORTH KOREA THREAT
-An op-ed in today's Wall Street Journal by Secretary of State Rex Tillerson and Defense Secretary James Mattis stresses diplomatic solutions to the North Korea nuclear threats and insists the US is not looking for regime change.
Four of this year's five best-performing large ETFs have something in common.
Among all the U.S.-listed exchange-traded funds with more than $2 billion in market value, the top dog is the iShares MSCI China ETF (MCHI), which is up 34 percent through Friday's close.
Following closely behind is the iShares MSCI All Country Asia ex Japan ETF (AAXJ), which has risen 26 percent year to date. The third-best performer is the SPDR S&P Biotech ETF (XBI), but the top five finish off with the iShares MSCI South Korea Capped ETF (EWY) and the iShares MSCI India ETF (INDA).
Some strategists believe the run could continue for these names in the Asian-market exposed space.
Gina Sanchez, CEO of Chantico Global, said that although she thinks North Korea-related tensions will likely be short-lived, the impact could spill over into China.
"You have over $400 billion that have been on the sidelines waiting for the A shares market to open up. MSCI, including it in the MSCI index, all of a sudden has just opened up a flood of capital, and that's probably here to stay," she said Friday on CNBC's "Trading Nation."

In the view of Max Wolff, chief economist at Disruptive Technology Advisers, the run is set to continue.
"As U.S. trade and diplomatic leadership has stalled and is running in reverse, we have and we will see an acceleration in the rotation of faith and dollars to regions seen as more promising," Wolff wrote to CNBC on Friday. "That means Asia in the significant part."
"We expect more outperformance from Asia and underperformance from the U.S.," Wolff added.

It feels like anything but a summer vacation for Wall Street lately.
The S&P 500 and the Dow Jones industrial average ended their second-worst week of the year on Friday. The Nasdaq composite fell for the third straight week, marking its longest weekly losing streak since June 2016.
Investors and traders were rattled by rising tensions between the United States and North Korea, while lackluster inflation data made them reassess the likelihood of the Federal Reserve raising interest rates later this year.
Meanwhile, earnings season continued as some of the biggest U.S. retailers, including, Macy's, Kohl's and Michael Kors, released their quarterly scorecards.
This week will be key for investors as they keep an eye on U.S.-North Korea tensions, try to figure out what's next for the Federal Reserve and digest more retail earnings.
Bill Perkins of energy hedge fund Skylar Capital says the natural gas market could soon rev up.
With American exports of natural gas on the rise, while infrastructure "isn't coming on fast enough," Perkins makes the point that "we actually have a very tight market now."
"Right now we have the demand-side infrastructure — that being exports — coming on first, and the supply-side infrastructure has not yet caught up," Perkins said Thursday on CNBC's "Futures Now."
"I do believe eventually supply will catch up and kind of normalize prices, but for the next 12 to 18 months, I think the market is in an increasingly bullish position."
The commodity has recently jumped from $2.75 per million Btu to about $3 per million Btu. During the winter, Perkins expects natural gas prices to rise to $4.
Yet Perkins grants that weather, that famous driver of natural gas, could throw a wrench in that thesis.
The supply condition is "not tight enough to overcome a very warm winter," he said. "A warmer winter will probably keep prices in the same range — but as we go further out the [futures] curve, I think it's extremely bullish."
Colder weather in winter increases demand for natural gas for heating homes.
In a recent profile in The Wall Street Journal, Perkins was declared to be "the 'last cowboy' betting on volatile gas markets."
In addition to his grand bets on natural gas, Perkins is known for playing poker at the highest stakes and for engaging in wild proposition bets, such as that two brothers with a 171-pound weight difference could not get to the same weight within a year's time. If professional poker players Jamie and Matt Staples manage to pull off the feat, Perkins stands to lose $150,000.
Disclosure: Perkins is long natural gas futures and bullish call options on natural gas.
People are blaming this week's market sell-off on rising tensions with North Korea, but it has "nothing to do with North Korea," Canaccord Genuity's chief market strategist Tony Dwyer said.
"This is all about a market looking for an excuse to sell off with a 'natural, normal and healthy correction,' which is only that way until you actually get it," Dwyer told CNBC's "Fast Money." "And then, you run around with your hair on fire, unless you're me."
Corrections in the market are "normal and healthy," Dwyer said. The size of the dip in a non-recession time period depends on whether people think there will be a recession, he said, and right now, nothing going on in the world suggests there will be one.
But Dwyer said he doesn't think the dip is deep enough to buy yet.
He said he anticipates more investment in banks, industrials, industrial materials and some energy stocks because capital spending is already increasing and will accelerate.
Dwyer doesn't blame passive investing for the absence of a bump following a "fantastic" earnings season. He attributes it to a runup before companies started reporting.
Dwyer said gross domestic product will increase along with capital spending that will end badly because the Federal Reserve will tighten policy and shut down credit.
"But that's years away still," he said.
Jim Cramer has always had the notion that excessive prudence can be one of the most reckless strategies of all.
If too much money is invested in safe, risk-free U.S. Treasury bonds, that basically insures a very low return on an investment. So, for those who want to grow their capital, stocks are the only game in town.
Stocks are a tool to make money, Cramer said, and bonds are for capital preservation — for protecting money and providing a small, steady return that can offset the impact of inflation.
"Depending on how old you are, there is a huge difference in how you should approach the very idea of putting your money in bonds," the "Mad Money" host said.
How much of a retirement portfolio should be kept in bonds versus stocks? Cramer broke it down by age:
Jim Cramer loves the public school system, but the truth is that it cannot be relied upon to teach children about money.
"If you want your children to become fluent in the language of finance, you are going to have to do it yourself," the "Mad Money" host said.
That means not waiting until after kids go to college to teach them about financial literacy. Once kids go to college, they will be bombarded by credit card offers that could seem irresistible. Credit-card debt on top of student loans could send someone into debt for decades.
"In my view, the best way to make all of this dull personal finance medicine go down is with a spoonful of stock-picking sugar," Cramer said.
Cramer recommended that parents give their children the gift of stock in a high-quality company that resonates with younger people.
One option is Disney, which has blockbuster movie franchises like "Frozen" and "Star Wars" under its belt that resonate with younger generations, he said.
The point of getting children interested in stocks early is to have parents instill a better way to think about money. Rather than viewing cash as something to be spent, Cramer wants children to learn that money is something that can be saved and invested to create more wealth.
"If you don't want to do this for your children, do it for yourself, because kids who can manage their own finances are kids who won't be begging you for mula even after you have gone into retirement," Cramer said.
Jim Cramer has not recommended bonds ever since the 2008 financial crisis because interest rates have been so low.
But that does not mean that there is not a place for bonds in a portfolio. In fact, he says they play an essential role in investing, especially as investors get older.
"In general, for the last few years, even when the stock market has been getting absolutely pounded, bonds simply haven't represented very good values versus equities," the "Mad Money" host said.
Cramer has always had the notion that excessive prudence can be one of the most reckless strategies of all. If too much money is invested in safe, risk-free U.S. Treasury bonds, that basically insures a very low return on an investment. So, for those who want to grow their capital, stocks are the only game in town.
Stocks are a tool to make money, Cramer said, and bonds are for capital preservation — for protecting money and providing a small, steady return that can offset the impact of inflation.
"Depending on how old you are, there is a huge difference in how you should approach the very idea of putting your money in bonds," Cramer said.
Cramer believes many financial experts tell their clients to own bonds a lot earlier in their lifetime than when is really necessary. An investor will likely not get rich from only owning Treasury bonds.
So for investors under 35 who own a bunch of bonds with the idea that they will slowly make money, Cramer thinks they are being too cautious.
Even in a 401(k) or an Individual Retirement Account, Cramer recommends that younger investors weigh their investments very heavily toward stocks, particularly because these types of accounts will allow investors to avoid capital gains or dividend taxes. That means gains can compound, tax-free, year after year.
However, as investors grow older, owning Treasury bonds becomes absolutely essential because bonds are simply safer. So, once investors have used the stock market to make themselves financially independent, they should put more money into U.S. Treasuries for protection.
How much of a retirement portfolio should be kept in bonds versus stocks? Cramer broke it down by age:
"You're going to be living off your investments for the rest of your life, so some part of your portfolio should always be trying to create more wealth in case you live longer than you expect and need more money to support yourself," Cramer said.
So, for younger investors, Cramer says putting money into bonds is a "fool's game." But as one grows older, that bond exposure should grow. This will ensure that the wealth generated from stocks is protected against the volatility of the stock market.
Unless you are born with a silver spoon in your mouth, accruing wealth does not come easily, which is why Jim Cramer is so passionate about helping investors find a viable financial strategy.
"Thanks to the magic of compounding, the earlier in your life you start investing in the market, the bigger your long-term gains can be," the "Mad Money" host said.
Cramer is confident that even if an investor does not have a high-paying job, as long as he saves a decent chunk of his paycheck and invests it wisely each year, he can grow his wealth and become financially independent, at the very least.
In fact, when the "Mad Money" host researched the S&P 500 going all the way back to 1928, the average annual return through the end of 2014 was about 10 percent, including dividends.
"Show me an asset class with a better average return. You can't do it! Stocks aren't just the best game in town, they are really the only game in town if your goal is to grow your wealth," Cramer said.
The 10 percent average return on the S&P 500 may not seem impressive at first, despite the fact that it is more than double what one can expect from a 30-year Treasury bond and much more than what a certificate of deposit from a bank pays.
However, if you understand the magic of compounding, the gain is impressive. For instance, if $100 is invested in the S&P 500 and it gains 10 percent in a year, that will generate $110, after another year it's $121 and after a third year it's $133.
The gains will continue to grow, because each year, money is made from the previous year's profits. With that 10 percent average annual return, an investor can double his money in about seven years, Cramer said.
"The magic of compounding works best the younger you are because that means you have more time for your money to grow," Cramer said.
For instance, if a 22-year-old is just entering the workforce, she has more than 40 years before she retires. She can invest $10,000 in an S&P index fund right now with the anticipation that the next 40 years will not be too different from the last 40 years.
In that case, if the average return remains at 10 percent, in 40 years that $10,000 investment will be worth more than $450,000. Making that money did not require any stock picking, trading or even research on individual companies.
"All you have to do after you initially save that money is let it sit on the sidelines, ideally in a 401(k) plan or an IRA so that you don't' have to pay capital gains or dividend taxes on your gains," Cramer said, with reference to Individual Retirement Accounts.
The same logic can be applied to those in different age groups, but the "Mad Money" host insists that it is best to start early to get the biggest bang for your buck.
Tesla raised $1.8 billion, $300 million more than expected, in its first high-yield junk bond offering Friday.
The yield of 5.30 percent was slightly higher than the original guidance of 5.25 percent.
Earlier in the week, Elon Musk's luxury electric car maker was expected to raise at least $1.5 billion to accelerate production of its new Model 3, but strong demand allowed the carmaker  to raise more, albeit at a slightly higher yield than expected.
Goldman Sachs was the lead underwriter of the eight-year bonds. S&P rated the bonds negative B and Moody's B3.
"It was well-received," said Efraim Levy of CFRA. "In a large extent it does show that people are interested in the bonds of the company because they believe in the long-term growth ... story."
Levy noted that investors are expecting profitability from Tesla's more affordable Model 3. "By 2025 there's no more room for excuses," he said.
Tesla has burned through billions of dollars — $1.2 billion in cash in the second quarter alone— in its effort to develop electric cars.
"The issuer will use the net proceeds from this offering to further strengthen its balance sheet during a period of rapid scaling with the launch of Model 3, and for general corporate purposes," Tesla said in the debt offering term sheet.
Morgan Stanley; Barclays Capital; Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith; Citigroup Global Markets; Deutsche Bank Securities; and RBC Capital Markets were the other underwriters.
The debt pricing came amid a more than 1 percent drop this week in the iShares iBoxx $ High Yield Corporate Bond ETF (HYG), which held gains of less than 1 percent for the year Friday, as geopolitical risks soured the appetite for risky assets.
That made it all the more surprising that Tesla would be able to raise more money than expected and at such a reasonable yield for a company with a risky balance sheet.
It "speaks to the sheer insanity found in the high-yield market to have a deal like this upsized with terms so unappealing to investors," said Larry McDonald, author of The Bear Traps Report newsletter. "The deck is stacked for Tesla in bond deal terms, congrats to Elon Musk."
Investors this week got their first taste of market pandemonium in a long while.
If they want a place to shelter from the storm, these securities have a track record of rising during times of market tumult, according to data cruncher Kensho.
The Dow Jones industrial average dropped more than 200 points, and the CBOE volatility index, or VIX, jumped more than 40 percent Thursday to its highest level since the election as a war of words broke out between President Donald Trump and North Korea.
The market's fear gauge had been unusually dormant, staying mostly below 12 for the last four months and even diving last month to its lowest level ever.

Sophisticated investors scrambled to place bets on what will happen next on the geopolitical front with a record amount of options contracts tied to the VIX trading on Thursday. The high volume continued on Friday.
Traders and investors including Jeffrey Gundlach believe the volatility measure could jump to 20 as geopolitical tensions rise and more thoughts of overvalued tech stocks sink in next week. It was hovering around the 15 level on Friday.
Using Kensho, an analytics tool deployed by hedge funds, CNBC found 44 times when the VIX popped 5 points in a span of five days since this bull market began in 2009. A search of a group of highly liquid ETFs found a few that rose during those volatile time periods, on average.

The iShares 20+ Year Treasury Bond ETF, largely tracking the U.S. government debt market, is the top performer, on average, as investors huddle there for safety. Next was the Vanguard Total Bond Market ETF,  which follows highly rated government and corporate debt.
And no surprise on the list are gold-related securities. The iShares Gold Trust and the SPDR Gold Shares seek to track the price of gold, the oldest safe haven out there.
Disclosure: CNBC's parent NBCUniversal is a minority investor in Kensho.
Biotech stocks are tracking for their worst month of the year, and one trader is betting on more misery.
The iShares Nasdaq Biotech ETF, IBB, fell more than 3 percent in the past week, and if history is any indication, it could get a lot worse.
Over the past 10 years, August has been the worst month for the IBB with total returns averaging minus 2.2 percent. July has been the best month with average total returns at 5.9 percent.
While the IBB is up nearly 15 percent this year, sentiment in the options market is bearish, according to Dan Nathan of RiskReversal.com.
"Put volume ran really hot," Nathan said Thursday on CNBC's "Fast Money."
Looking at the S&P biotech ETF, the XBI, which is more equal weight than its Nasdaq counterpart, Nathan noticed one eyebrow-raising trade in the options market.
There was a buyer of 10,000 of the September 74/68 put spreads for $1.67. This is a nearly $1.7 million bet that the ETF will fall below $72.33 by September expiration.
"Obviously, this trader has some kind of good profits, but is looking to protect over the next month or so," Nathan said.
While the XBI is up more than 26 percent this year, it has fallen almost 10 percent since making a 52-week high on July 24.

Looking at the chart, what's "kind of interesting, the convergence of the uptrend from the 52-week lows and the breakout level from earlier in the summer. That gets you back down towards that protection level," Nathan added.
The XBI was trading at the $74.65 range midday Friday.

Options experts are saying Thursday's record volume in volatility derivatives bets may signal a dangerous problem with the size of volatility-linked trading products.The focus is on the CBOE volatility index, a key measure of market expectations for near-term volatility as conveyed by the price of S&P 500 index options. The CBOE announced VIX options volume hit 2.56 million contracts on Thursday, a record for a single day. In addition, VIX futures volume reached 939,000 contracts, another record.
The high volume coincided with a 44 percent spike in the VIX, to 16.04, its highest daily close for the year. The VIX recently hit a record intraday low of 8.84. On Friday afternoon, it was at 14.54.
The volume in VIX "options and futures tells us that yesterday was potentially a more serious event, and validates some of what we have discussed in recent notes about the growing leverage in VIX-linked products," Macro Risk Advisors head derivatives strategist Pravit Chintawongvanich wrote in a note to clients Friday.
Credit Suisse shared with its clients the firm's best online travel and e-commerce stock picks.
"Following 2Q17 results, we are updating our top picks," wrote Credit Suisse analyst Paul Bieber. Second-quarter earnings flooded Wall Street over the past few weeks, prompting analysts to adjust stock price targets and company ratings.  Bieber included several major travel websites and e-commerce giants in his Thursday report to clients. Each pick includes his 12-month price target and a list of risks to the stock.  Here are three companies that made Credit Suisse's recommended list and their price targets.
Goldman Sachs plans to begin using a personality test as part of its hiring process in several divisions like banking, trading and finance, and some see this as one of the ultimate ways to figure out what makes prospective candidates in the industry tick.
"I kind of view it as the holy grail. Can we figure out what makes great traders great?" Doug Hirschhorn, a performance coach for financial firms and the author of "8 Ways to Great," told CNBC on Thursday.  Hirschhorn likens the personality testing process to "'Moneyball' for hedge funds, or 'Moneyball' for the financial industry," referring to the 2003 book by Michael Lewis (and subsequent film of the same name) chronicling the efforts by Oakland Athletics general manager Billy Beane to build a winning team by using mathematical rigor to find and hire undervalued players.  In the past, the concept of how to measure the best possible man or woman for the job has been somewhat challenging given the lack of research and lack of attention "from a sample-size perspective," Hirschhorn said. Such a "personality" test has some value to it, he said on "Trading Nation," but offered a laundry list of the pros and cons around this type of assessment.  For example: Some top institutions search for the top talent, the cream of the crop, but have an unusual "filter process," he said, like going to top-ranked schools and essentially ending up with the same handful of people from the same schools. Of course, this has been proven to be not only a phenomenon in finance. At this point, all Supreme Court justices, including the newly confirmed Neil Gorsuch, attended Ivy League schools.  By administering some kind of standardized assessment tool, Hirschhorn argued, companies can cast a wider net across a larger population. Plus, it may cost less than conducting on-site interviews that might be more typical.  Yet "one of the big cons is that you're labeling people. You're actually going to put people into a box," he said, warning of something throughout this process he calls "faking good." Essentially, applicants may alter their responses in these personality tests based upon what they think the company wants from them, as opposed to what their real personality may reflect. Another con with personality tests may be that test anxiety sets in and throws off applicants.  For applicants, Hirschhorn advises them to "take the test or the interview as if you're trying to get the job. You want to make sure that you understand the job and that it fits your personality. Many, many times when I do interviewing processing for organizations, I'll tell the people, look, they're interviewing you, but really, you're interviewing them. It's your decision to join the organization and you have to decide if it's the right fit for you based on what you know."  Reuters reported that Goldman Sachs will begin piloting the personality test on U.S. summer intern candidates who would be starting in 2018. The bank reportedly last year also made other efforts to identify strong candidates who may not be from Ivy League schools by opting for first-round interviews via video platform instead of on college campuses.  "We're shifting from a world where you just used to look at a GPA and resume and walk out with a feeling about an individual that you might want to hire," Matt Jahansouz, the investment bank's global head of recruiting, told Reuters. "We can now capture characteristics and data that might not be as obvious to make smarter hiring decisions."
Goldman Sachs released a list of stocks to stay away from if market volatility continues to climb in a report by the head of global securities research Robert Boroujerdi.
"The confluence of low volatility, a fluid reflation narrative and signs of complacency in rates & credit markets have created positioning and correlation extremes for equity managers," wrote Boroujerdi in the Wednesday report.
The CBOE Volatility Index (.VIX), known as the best gauge of fear in the market, has recently been trading at historic lows, reaching 9.3 in July, its lowest level since December 1993.
While many believe volatility will remain depressed for the foreseeable future, the VIX spiked on Thursday to a high of 14.93 as the heated rhetoric between the U.S. and North Korea continues to spook some investors.
"For those looking to take a negative view on Low Vol, we highlight Sell- and Neutral-rated companies that screen as poor 'Quality' on our Integrated factor relative to both their sector as well as broader coverage and where volatility is 15 percent or more below its 5-year average," wrote Boroujerdi.
Goldman also included stocks that may be safer bets in times of turbulence, naming firms with strong balance sheets, and also screen well on their "Quality" factors.
Here are a few of their recommendations.
A company's best defense against an activist investor is its ability to improve the business to boost the stock price.
And these companies are evaluated every three months with their quarterly earnings.
So CNBC took a look at these report cards for the largest targets where activists announced stakes this year. And the results indicate that a majority of these companies may find themselves with some empowered activists.
Of the top 10 targets by market cap, as compiled by 13D Monitor, six declined on the day they reported earnings.


Ericsson and Universal Health Services saw the biggest drops, with CenturyLink not far behind. The other three – Nestle, KKR and General Motors – ticked down only slightly.
On the positive side were Caterpillar, Procter & Gamble and Honeywell. All three of those beat estimates for both their earnings and revenue and gained on the day they reported.

Third Point's Daniel Loeb is angling for changes at Nestle and Honeywell. Trian's Nelson Peltz is taking on P&G and seeking a board seat.
ADP reported earnings on the morning of July 27, and its shares were up slightly after that. But then, Bloomberg reported later in the day about Bill Ackman's stake and the stock surged from there.
To be sure, not all of these situations have reached the point of a proxy fight. Overall, if second-quarter results are any indication, there could be more fuel for activists' fire in the second half of the year.
While tensions with North Korea have taken a bite out of the stock market, defense stocks are benefiting.
Shares of defense companies like Lockheed Martin, L3 Communications and Raytheon have surged to record highs in the wake of remarks President Donald Trump made Tuesday about meeting North Korea with "fire and fury" if the nation were to threaten the United States.
Investors likely flocked to buy up shares of the defense names with the thought that should the U.S. actually engage militarily with North Korea, defense contractors would benefit. Baird on Thursday raised its price target for Raytheon by 25 percent, implying about 18 percent upside from current levels.
"We are raising the price target of Raytheon … reflecting the significant programs wins both domestically and internationally for missile defense and missile systems that puts Raytheon in position for favorable organic growth in 2018 and beyond," analyst Peter Arment wrote in a note to clients.
The bump seen on Wednesday was most certainly all about North Korea-related tension, but the defense stocks themselves look strong more broadly, said Erin Gibbs, portfolio manager at S&P Global. Earnings growth for the group has been above expectations this year.
"It is still not as great as we would like; we are still only expecting about 9 percent earnings growth for aerospace and defense for this year, and 10 percent for next year, so not amazing," Gibbs said, adding that she would recommend Raytheon and Rockwell Collins at this juncture.
"We see some of the best value and growth with those two, particularly with some of the anti-air missile defense systems and the merger rumors. Those could be, potentially, your best bets, even if things escalate or don't escalate with North Korea," she said.
Shares of Rockwell Collins rose last week on a report that United Technologies, another aerospace company, was considering acquiring it.
On a strictly technical basis, L3 Communications appears poised to rise about 10 percent from current levels, said Rich Ross, head of technical analysis at Evercore ISI. This is due in part to a long-term base of support he sees in the performance chart, which points to further bullish activity. The longer-term weekly chart of L3 Communications, too, paints a bullish picture on a technical basis.
Ross pointed out a "consolidative multiyear trading range," which he sees giving way to further upside. "I'm a buyer of the stock," he said on CNBC's "Power Lunch." "I think it looks great in textbook pattern and form."
Closely followed trader Art Cashin said Thursday that DoubleLine CEO Jeffrey Gundlach may have played a small role in moving Wall Street's fear gauge higher this week.
Billionaire bond guru Gundlach predicted Tuesday on CNBC that the S&P 500 will fall at least 3 percent by the end of the year, and when that happens, the VIX will double.
"I think the jump (in the VIX) got a big boost from Jeffrey Gundlach," UBS' director of floor operations at the New York Stock Exchange said on "Squawk Alley."
"When (the VIX) started moving on its own, people I think started climbing on board. So, you got to put the Gundlach factor in there somewhere," Cashin added.
The CBOE Volatility Index (VIX), widely considered the best gauge of fear in the market, has soared this week amid heightened tensions between the United States and North Korea. The index is up 44 percent week to date.
Before this week, the VIX held near historical lows around 10 or below this year. It hit an all-time low of 8.84 on July 26.
Regarding North Korea, Cashin said to keep an eye on safe haven trades. On Wednesday, he said that if the situation between the U.S. and North Korea escalates, a flood into safe havens will be the first warning sign.
Traditional safe havens have seen solid inflows as tensions have increased.
Cashin said Thursday that if problems persist it could begin to affect trade. "We here in the U.S. easily forget that South Korea is a major trading partner of China as is Japan. If that begins to impair, what does that do to the Chinese economy? What does it do to the economies of South Korea and Japan? And what will that do to the world economy?" he said.
"Obviously this market is not saying we're going to war," Cashin added.

Leuthold Chief Investment Officer Doug Ramsey is expecting a market downturn and a spike in volatility as early as the next six to eight weeks.
Ramsey cited growing highs in investor sentiment as a contrarian indicator that a short-term sell-off may be at hand. The strategist told CNBC in a phone interview that he expects the S&P 500 and Dow Jones industrial average to drop as much as 8 percent from here.
And Ramsey noted in the interview that the losses will be bigger for "small caps, the high beta stocks."
The market bulls have been on a tear this year, with technology leading the charge. The S&P 500 is up over 10 percent, while the Dow Jones industrial average recently broke a 10-day winning streak and is near its all-time high above 22,000 points.
"Our sentiment work revealed a burst of bullish betting during the Dow's nine-day winning streak," wrote Ramsey in his August report, out to clients this week. "Conditions have slipped into place for at least a short-term correction."
But Ramsey isn't worried that a sell-off will lead to a longer bear market. He believes the S&P will claw back to 2,550 by year's end. (It closed at 2,474.02 on Wednesday.) Still, the CIO underscored the market's tendency to "lay an egg" in years that end in 7s, specifically in late summer and early fall.
"It goes without saying that 'Year Seven' tends to see a massive volatility spike," he wrote. "We wouldn't vacate the stock market based on this pattern alone, but we would exit any 'short volatility' strategies during this window."
As Ramsey points out, sentiment peak usually precedes price peak. And sentiment is at the "warning threshold."
Bullishness in recent Investors Intelligence surveys hastopped 60 percent recently, the highest levels since late February. Analysts have cautioned that large spreads between bulls and bears, who are at just 16.5 percent, are indicators of extreme complacency and upcoming danger.
Though many investors see tech stocks as overvalued, Ramsey is confident that classic large-cap companies would carry the market through the short sell-off toward recovery. Technology has led the markets this year, up 23 percent through Wednesday's close; leaders include Activision, Nvidia and Facebook.
"There's plenty of time [for a recovery]," Ramsey told CNBC. "We've seen transport stocks at highs just a few weeks ago. Financials, too, were at highs just on Monday … the market has considerable breadth."
"The most likely scenario would be new, narrower highs in big mega-tech stocks — the FANG group," he said. "Historically, there is a very strong tendency for momentum stocks to do very well in the last innings."
Ramsey concluded by reiterating his higher S&P year-end target, but assured investors of his uncertainty in the near-term.
"We're going to play it cautious in these next few weeks."
Howard Marks, one of the most respected value investors out there, warned on Thursday about inflated financial markets and the growing risk of passive investing in the infamous technology 'FANG' stocks.
"The willingness of people to say, 'I love the FANGs, there is no price too high,'" is worrisome, he said Thursday on CNBC's "Halftime Report" referring to the soaring heights this year in shares of Facebook, Amazon, Netflix and Google-parent Alphabet.
"Several times in my career, which spans almost fifty years, I've seen one group of stocks anointed as super stocks. The companies are so great that nothing can go wrong. Because they are so great there is no price too high ... [But] the key to understand the markets, everything of value or truth eventually gets overdone."
The investor is also concerned the rise of passive investing is making FANG stock investing a "dangerous place."
If index funds "buy the FANGs regardless of price then that's a risk. There's nobody sitting at the index funds saying let's not buy that today because it's too expensive. They have to buy it," Marks said. "And anytime people buy because they have to, then the world is a dangerous place."
"There's nothing that's cheap today," Marks added, referring to all financial markets today.
After his investment memo got so much attention two weeks ago, Marks wanted to clarify that he doesn't know the timing of when the market will drop.
"P/E ratios are higher than usual ... prices are high," the investor added. "That is not a position that warrants a full ration of risk."
Marks believes the credit market is even more overvalued than the stock market.
"We're in a bond bubble ... bonds yield the least they've ever had," Marks said.
The co-chairman of Oaktree Capital is famous for his prescient investment memos, which predicted the financial crisis and the dot-com bubble implosion. Oaktree Capital has $99 billion of assets under management as of June 2017, according to its website.
Shares of Planet Fitness were up more than 7 percent midday Thursday after the company beat top- and bottom-line second-quarter expectations.
In a call with investors, executives of the low-cost gym chain pointed to its appeal to casual exercisers and ability to snap up vacant swaths of retail real estate. Planet Fitness' stock traded as high as $25.01, on pace to surpass its all-time closing high of $24.54 set Nov. 11, 2016, according to FactSet.
"There are not a lot of retailers out there taking down 20,000-square-foot boxes [of real estate] a year," the company's chief financial officer, Dorvin Lively, said. "One of the benefits we get is we're one of the first ones to get called now, when something becomes available."
Cowen Group analyst Oliver Chen emphasized that Planet Fitness is utilizing real estate deals, writing that the company's "gains not impacted by retail's pains." Chen pointed to the Planet Fitness business model as one "not built on the extras," saying it has the most potential so long as the company stays true to its "DNA of a nonjudgmental exercise environment."
"The company's 'judgment-free' culture creates a low risk opportunity for new entrants into the fitness market, and has led to some of the highest market share growth in the fitness category," Chen said.
Planet Fitness CEO Christopher Rondeau emphasized that a combination of the company's simple model, available real estate and casual appeal allowed it to scale quickly.
"We've doubled the number of stores over the past four years to over 1,400 locations," Rondeau said.
He also cited up to 40 percent of recent new members who told the company they never went to a gym before joining Planet Fitness. He says the advantage of Planet Fitness is how it caters "to the 80 percent of the population that doesn't have a gym membership."
Planet Fitness reported second-quarter adjusted earnings per share of 22 cents, above Wall Street expectations for 19 cents, according to analysts polled by Thomson Reuters. Revenue totaled $107.3 million, also surpassing estimates for $102 million in revenue. In the year-earlier quarter, the company posted adjusted net income of 17 cents per share and revenue of $91.5 million.
Programming note: For more on Planet Fitness, watch CEO Chris Rondeau's interview on "Mad Money" Thursday night at 6 p.m. ET.
Snapchat's parent reports earnings Thursday afternoon, and for all the investor hype and media attention surrounding it, it's important to note one thing: Snap is one of the most extremely over-analyzed stocks relative to its overall value.
In fact, the social media company has more analysts covering it than it has billions of dollars in market cap. Not many major companies can make that claim. And the ones that do are often very problematic.
Twenty-one analysts are focusing on the company, according to Yahoo Finance, and its market cap before reporting earnings is around $16 billion. That means there are 1.3 analysts watching the company for every billion in value.
Consider the companies that have even more analysts than Snap but with even less market value. They include Chipotle, Under Armour, Foot Locker, Ulta, Coach, Trip Advisor, Viacom and Garmin.
On the other extreme, you have the major economically important firms with over $10 billion in market cap per analyst. Tech giants like Apple, Microsoft, Facebook, Amazon and Alphabet range from $13 billion to $24 billion in market cap per analyst, averaging $18 billion.
Barclays on Thursday initiated coverage of Delta Air Lines at overweight, calling it a leader in the sector and highlighting its strong relationships with staff and customers.
"A culture driven for respect for customers and employees blended with shrewd capital management has transformed Delta into one of the largest, safest and most profitable airlines in the world," wrote Barclays analyst Brandon Oglenski.
"Given Delta's leadership position in a sector we view as affording investors deep value, we are hard pressed not to have a large representation of Delta shares in the portfolio."
This may come as a surprise to critics of the airline industry. Rival United Airlines recently faced a barrage of negative publicity after a viral video showed the forced removal of a passenger from an overbooked flight.
Delta also recently dealt with customer complaints after airline employees removed a couple with two toddlers so their seats could be given to other waiting passengers. The disagreement was about whether the family was allowed to use a seat originally purchased for their teenage son for one of their toddlers.
United and Delta apologized for the incidents.
Oglenski pointed to a number of trends that could boost Delta's stock price in the next year.
"With continued outperformance on margins, returns and free cash generation relative to peers, we think historical airline valuation is becoming less relevant for Delta specifically," he said. "In our view, a re-rating of Delta's stock is warranted."
The analyst's overweight rating included a 12-month price target of $70, which is 41 percent higher than Wednesday's closing price.
Though Delta's stock is up only 1 percent this year, Barclays research is looking for big things in both domestic and foreign markets, which now represent about 30 percent of revenue.
"Branded fares, loyalty programs, global alliances, and capital discipline make for a bright future at Delta," concluded Oglenski. "Given significant growth in global air travel, especially relative to US expansion in recent years, Delta's international strategy could represent meaningful future upside for the company."
Bitcoin will likely outperform stocks and bonds the rest of the year, according to the first major Wall Street strategist to issue a report on the digital currency.
"I think bitcoin is an underowned asset with potential for huge institutional sponsorship coming," Fundstrat co-founder Tom Lee said Wednesday on CNBC's "Fast Money."
"It has a lot of characteristics that are very similar to gold that I think will make it ultimately attractive as an alternate currency," he said. "It's a good store of value."
Here's Lee's outlook on bitcoin given on the show into year-end:
Gold or bitcoin? Bitcoin?
"Yes."
Would you rather own bitcoin versus a basket of U.S. stocks?
"Between now and year end it's easily bitcoin."
Will bitcoin be the best performing asset?
"Yes."
Bitcoin leaped to record highs this week above $3,500, more than tripling in value for the year despite a split in the currency last week into bitcoin and bitcoin cash, an alternative version supported by a minority of developers.
Bitcoin traded 1.5 percent higher near $3,428 Thursday morning, according to CoinDesk. Bitcoin cash steadied after wild swings in its first week, trading near $303, according to CoinMarketCap.
Another digital currency, ethereum, rose 1 percent to just under $300, according to CoinDesk.
Bitcoin three-month performance

Source: CoinDesk
Lee published a report in early July outlining the potential for bitcoin to rise above $20,000 and potentially reach $55,000 by 2022. Formerly the top stock strategist at JPMorgan and a perennial favorite of big institutional investors, Lee was also one of the few on Wall Street to predict that a Donald Trump win in last year's election would cause stocks to rally, not fall like most had seen.
Lee sees another reason for optimism about bitcoin.
"Institutions have to directly buy the coin today through a broker, but both the CBOE and the CFTC have opened up options futures trading, so I think it's going to grow in holdings," he told CNBC.
In the last month, the Chicago Board Options Exchange said it plans to offer bitcoin futures by early next year, while the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission approved a digital currency trading firm called LedgerX to clear derivatives.
Market strategists have noted there are few highly attractive investment opportunities with U.S. stocks at all-time highs and bonds steady as the Federal Reserve remains on a gradual pace of monetary policy tightening and gold in a trading range.
The median S&P 500 target of strategists surveyed by CNBC is 2,475, just a point above where the stock index closed Wednesday. Lee happens to be the most bearish among those strategists with a year-end target of 2,275, or 8 percent below Wednesday's close.
After disappointing Wall Street out of the gate, Thursday is Snap's chance to snatch back its status as a social media darling.
Snap is scheduled to report second-quarter financial results after the bell, when analysts expect the company to add more users than last quarter. That could show investors that the company — which is still expected to lose millions of dollars this quarter — is still growing its user base quickly.
OPEC raised its collective oil output for a fourth-straight month in July, another sign that it is struggling to stick to a deal to pump less.
OPEC output jumped by 173,000 barrels a day to nearly 32.9 million barrels, according to independent sources cited by the group Thursday in a monthly report. That was the highest level since December, the month before the cartel began enforcing an agreement to limit its output in a bid to rebalance the market after three years of oversupply.
OPEC officials met earlier this week in Abu Dhabi to discuss how to improve compliance with the deal but didn't announce any clear steps.
The producer group has partnered with nonmembers, including Russia, since January to keep 1.8 million barrels a day off the market in order to shrink global crude stockpiles and boost prices. Rising output from U.S. drillers and OPEC members Libya and Nigeria, which are exempt from the deal, has frustrated that effort.
Check out which companies are making headlines before the bell:
Kohl's – The retailer reported quarterly profit of $1.24 per share, five cents a share above estimates. Revenue also exceeded forecasts and the retailer saw a drop of four-tenths of a percent in comparable-store sales, but that was smaller than the 1.5 percent decline that analysts had expected.
Blue Apron – The meal kit company reported a quarterly loss of 47 cents per share in its first quarterly report as a public company, wider than the 30-cent loss anticipated by analysts. Revenue did exceed forecasts, however, and Blue Apron registered customer growth of 23 percent over a year earlier.
Canada Goose – The luxury apparel maker reported a smaller-than-expected loss and had greater-than-expected revenue for its fiscal first quarter, as it sold more merchandise across its various sales platforms.
Perrigo – The maker of store-branded drugs earned an adjusted $1.22 per share for its third quarter, beating consensus estimates of $1.10 a share. Revenue was also above forecasts and the company forecast full-year earnings above Street projections.
Brinker International – The parent of Chili's and other restaurant brands earned an adjusted $1.09 for its latest quarter, five cents a share above estimates. Revenue also exceeded forecasts. Same-restaurant sales dropped 1.8 percent, but that was slightly smaller than the expected 1.9 percent drop. Brinker also raised its quarterly dividend to 38 cents per share from 34 cents.
Delta Air Lines – Barclays began coverage on the airline with an "overweight" rating, saying Delta was driven by a culture of respect for customers and employees and that this has turned it into a large, safe, and profitable airline.
21st Century Fox – Fox beat estimates by one cent a share, with adjusted quarterly earnings of 36 cents per share. The media company's revenue fell slightly short of forecasts on a slide in movie-related revenue. Fox's cable division revenue rose 10.4 percent.
Jack In The Box – The company fell six cents a share short of consensus estimates, with adjusted quarterly profit of 99 cents per share. The restaurant chain's revenue missed estimates, as well. Comparable sales for Jack In The Box restaurants rose 0.1 percent compared to forecasts of a 0.2 percent drop.
E.L.F. Beauty – E.L.F. earned an adjusted 12 cents per share for the second quarter, nine cents a share above estimates. The beauty products maker saw revenue exceed forecasts, as well. The company also reaffirmed its prior 2017 outlook.
Live Nation Entertainment – Live Nation came in 10 cents a share ahead of Street forecasts, reporting quarterly profit of 29 cents per share. The entertainment event promoter's revenue also beat estimates, and Live Nation said concert ticket sales were up 22 percent through the end of July compared to the same period a year ago.
Planet Fitness – Planet Fitness reported adjusted quarterly profit of 22 cents per share, three cents a share above estimates. The fitness chain also saw revenue beat forecasts. The company raised its full-year outlook, as well, and said it expects to see same-location sales up 8 to 9 percent for 2017.
Chicago Bridge & Iron – The company lost $3.02 per share for its latest quarter, a far worse result than the 83 cents per share profit analysts had been expecting. The provider of infrastructure and technology services for the energy industry also suspended its dividend and announced its intention to sell its technology business. Chicago Bridge called the quarter's results disappointing but said it was taking decisive steps to strengthen its operating performance and financial position.
Microsoft – Microsoft's dispute with cybersecurity firm Kaspersky was resolved, with Kaspersky withdrawing antitrust complaints it had made against the software giant in Europe. Microsoft agreed to change its method of delivering security updates to Windows users, and the two also announced a resolution of Kaspersky's allegation that Microsoft had made it excessively difficult for non-Microsoft security software to be installed in Windows 10.
Facebook – Facebook announced a revamped video offering called "Watch," which will debut to a limited group of U.S. users at first. "Watch" will offer a wide range of programming, including original content.
Valeant Pharmaceuticals - Hedge fund manager John Paulson cut his fund's stake in the Canadian drugmaker to 6 percent from 6.3 percent, but Paulson did say he is still fully supportive of Valeant's leadership.
Tesla – The automaker is close to testing an electric, commercial self-driving truck that can move in "platoons" with other similar vehicles, according to a Reuters report.
Vantiv – The credit card processor was upgraded to "buy" from "hold" at Stifel Nicolaus, on optimism surrounding the company's deal to buy British payment processing firm Worldpay. Stifel also raised its price target on the stock to $85 per share from $63.
A daily morning look at the financial stories you need to know to start the day.
STOCKS/ECONOMY
-Stock futures are down as tensions with North Korea continue to rise. We get a lot of key data today, including weekly jobless claims, the producer price index, and federal budget figures.
NORTH KOREA THREAT
-North Korea is detailing its plan to hit Guam with a missile attack, and dismissing President Donald Trump's warnings as "nonsense."  Trump aide Sebastian Gorka says the U.S. will use "any appropriate measures" against North Korea, but will not reveal them publicly. Japan says it can shoot down any missile North Korea fires at Guam.
OBAMACARE
-President Trump and Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell are now publicly blaming each other for the failed attempt to repeal and replace Obamacare. Health insurers on the Obamacare exchanges are planning on big premium rate hikes and blaming the White House for not guaranteeing to continue the subsidies they receive for remaining in the program.


As the quarterly earnings season winds down and several big-box retailers are set to report this week, one portfolio manager is cautioning some investors who may look to beaten-down brick-and-mortar retail stocks as a value play.
Particularly for some clothing and accessories names, this year has been a struggle, said Erin Gibbs, portfolio manager at S&P Global. She is expecting a mere 8 percent earnings growth for the group next year, which strikes her as concerning especially when the e-commerce space is booming.
"They're facing some tougher [year-over-year comparisons] and next year might also be another tough year for retailers. This is one of those areas where you could get into a value trap; some of these retailers really are trading at discounts, but that's because we're expecting lower earnings," Gibbs said Wednesday on CNBC's "Trading Nation."
"You really need to be selective, with strong management, and ideally some more hope for growth expectations and revenue expectations going forward."
This week names like Nordstrom, Macy's, Kohl's and JCPenny are set to report quarterly earnings. Thus far, results this earnings season have been pretty "dismal," Gibbs said, with 62 percent of retail companies missing estimates, compared with only a 20 percent miss rate for all the names in the S&P 500 this earnings season.
Gibbs is hoping, overall, that some of the retailers meet or beat expectations. Meanwhile, "Amazon and internet retailing is the only area within retail that's doing well." Some of the smaller-cap retail companies are indeed doing well, like Ulta, "one of Wall Street's favorites," she said. Some others like Home Depot and Lowe's are also holding up well.
Next week, some big retail names like Wal-Mart, Home Depot, Target and Coach are scheduled to report their quarterly earnings. Disclosure: Gibbs manages a portfolio in which AMZN is a holding, but she has no personal or family ownership. It could not be immediately ascertained if Gibbs has a position in ULTA.
Disclaimer
Since the beginning of 2017, Jim Cramer has watched the stock of Boeing soar far above the rest of the Dow Jones Industrial average.
"The aircraft maker is up more than 50 percent year to date, leaving the second-place performer, Apple, up 39 percent, not shabby, but in the dust," the "Mad Money" host said. "But while I still like Boeing very much, and you know that, all this begs the question: how the heck did so many analysts miss this one? Why didn't these highly paid professionals — the analysts, money managers — see this one coming?"
To put Boeing's run in context, Cramer looked back to 2015, when shares of the aerospace giant began to trade sideways as investors worried about global growth, particularly in China.
Shares continued to stagnate through 2016, when Boeing underwent a change in leadership. Adding fuel to the fire, the company's first quarterly report under its new CEO, Dennis Muilenburg, missed analyst estimates for the first time in years.
Boeing's breakout came just before the 2016 election. The aircraft manufacturer reported a massive earnings beat in October, thanks in part to operational improvements that put the company on a path to profitability. Wall Street embraced the report despite the fact that Boeing's revenues declined by 7.5 percent.
Since then, Boeing topped the Street's estimates quarter after quarter, also helped by the rally in defense, transportation and industrial stocks in the wake of President Donald Trump's victory.
"However, the real story has to do with cost savings," Cramer said. "That's how the company managed to give us phenomenal earnings despite occasionally lackluster sales."
For Boeing, the cost cuts have come in the form of layoffs — over 2,000 workers have been laid off this year alone — and automation, as the company seeks to lower production costs.
"In short, the machines are taking over and it's good for business, even if it stinks for all the people who've lost their jobs," the "Mad Money" host said.
Boeing's latest earnings report stayed true to its recent trajectory. Revenues were down over 8 percent year over year, but costs fell by more than 17 percent, and earnings per share exceeded analyst estimates.
Shares of Boeing flew 10 percent in response as analysts scrambled to raise their price targets and estimates for the aircraft maker, and, in five cases, to upgrade its stock rating.
"Now, the estimate bumps make sense. After all, Boeing boosted its own earnings outlook by roughly 6.5 percent," Cramer said. "But why the heck did so many firms have sell ratings on the stock? Even before Boeing reported in late July it was the best performer in the Dow for 2017. It's not like this has been some kind of stealth jet rally."
Analysts at Buckingham Research Group, for one, had downgraded the stock in February from "neutral" to "underperform," saying Boeing's shares were priced perfectly and would soon sink due to a series of negative catalysts including downward estimate revisions from other firms.
"Couldn't have been more wrong," Cramer quipped.
Morgan Stanley analysts followed suit in March, taking Boeing down from "overweight" to "equal weight" due to a less favorable risk-reward setup. Cramer said they may have been too hasty.
"All this, I think, can be explained with one concept. ... It's UPOD. It's under-promise and over-deliver," the "Mad Money" host said. "Maybe more of these sell-side guys should realize that the company is being conservative. That's the way they are. As long as they keep underestimating Boeing, you're going to continue to get the chances for the stock to go higher."
Yet its run has not gone unnoticed by investors. In the past few months, Boeing's stock has gone from being inexpensive to being fairly pricey at 22 times next year's earnings estimates.
But with its strong earnings momentum and favorable tailwinds, Cramer would not be surprised if even those estimates were too low for the manufacturing giant.
"Boeing managed to blow away the numbers late last month because the analysts still aren't giving the CEO, Dennis Muilenburg, the credit he deserves," he said. "And while more of them have gotten religion, there's still a lot of holds on the darned thing, and I believe Boeing is being underestimated, meaning the stock, after marking some time here and going down a little, I think it could have more room to run."
Opponents of a federal rule intended to protect investors might get some of what they want.
In a court brief filed in a Minnesota lawsuit on Wednesday, the Labor Department said it has submitted to the Office of Management and Budget a proposal to delay implementing the remaining parts of its so-called fiduciary rule for 18 months.
If approved by the OMB, the move would push the out the effective date to July 1, 2019, from Jan. 1, 2018. The  proposed 18-month pause mirrors the request from some opponents in the financial services industry, which already had succeeding in getting one delay.
A Labor Department spokesman declined to comment for this story.
The first part of the rule took effect in June, which requires financial advisors to work in the best interest of clients when it comes to providing advice related to their retirement accounts. At the direction of the Trump administration, the DOL has been working on an economic impact review of the rule since February.
The provisions affected by a delay include rules for specific written disclosures from financial services firms and advisors, including the requirement that advisors earning commissions on investments in retirement accounts sign a legally binding agreement putting their clients' interests ahead of their own.
Meanwhile, the rule also remains in the crosshairs of congressional Republicans. Last month, a House committee approved a measure that would repeal the fiduciary rule and replace it with one allowing disclosures of potential conflicts of interest. Legislators are also working on a draft bill that would not only would adopt a disclosure-based standard but would apply it to all retail accounts, not just retirement money.
Some traders are looking to make even more money from the world's biggest stock, even after Apple shares have surged nearly 12 percent in the past month.
While the prices of S&P 500 options have lingered around record lows, Apple options remain relatively well bid. This means traders collectively think Apple shares have a high probability of rising or falling, while the S&P 500 will remain stable.
In these market conditions, some see opportunity.
Stacey Gilbert, head of derivative strategy at Susquehanna, suggests a trade commonly called a "covered call" or an "overwrite," which combines ownership of the stock with the sale of a call option.
A call gives its buyer the right to buy the underlying asset for a given price within a given time period; buying a call, then, is a bullish trade. By selling a call, one receives a fixed amount of money and is obliged to sell the stock for a certain price no matter how high it rises. Doing this on its own results in unlimited risk to the seller, since any stock or ETF can theoretically rise to infinity. But when a trader sells a call against a stock she already owns, the only added risk comes in the more abstract form of foregone gains — since the losses on the call will be offset by the gains on the stock.
Such a strategy is always on the table for an investor. But its attractiveness at any given time will be determined by the amount for which the call can be sold and by the stock's perceived upside. And right now, both sides of the equation make the overwriting plan a good one, Gilbert argues.
"As everything else in the world is low volatility, Apple isn't as low as the rest of the world — so you can actually get some premium for those calls," Gilbert said Tuesday on CNBC's "Trading Nation."
Further, the next iPhone is expected to be released in September, and "it isn't unusual to have a buy-the-rumor-sell-the-news situation."
"You can maintain your Apple position assuming it doesn't rally significantly," but the overwriting strategy will "offset [losses] if there is any short-term pullback here," Gilbert concluded.
A pullback could indeed be in the cards, warns Boris Schlossberg of BK Asset Management.
"I think their growth strategy of betting so much on China is really going to backfire against them," Schlossberg said on "Trading Nation." Given growing competition from Google's Android and other comers, "I think there's a tremendous amount of headwinds going forward, so I'm very, very leery of being long Apple at this point."
MKM Partners derivatives strategist Jim Strugger can also get on board with the overwriting strategy. His research shows that not only are Apple options expensive compared to S&P 500 options, but that Apple options are more expensive now than they have been in the past.
"Relative to itself [in the past], yes, it's a good time to overwrite AAPL," Strugger wrote to CNBC on Wednesday. Still, he notes that options prices on Apple remain lower than those on stocks like Alibaba and Nvidia, making it less juicy "in terms of the premium that selling a covered call will generate."
On Wednesday afternoon, October 175-strike calls on Apple are trading at about $1.55 per share. Traders selling those calls will get to keep that entire premium so long as Apple closes below $175 on Oct. 20.
Interestingly, even those bullish on options are using high options prices to their advantage. On Tuesday, Todd Gordon of TradingAnalysis.com sold put spreads in order to speculate on upside.
Nvidia shares have taken off, surging nearly 200 percent in the past year, making it the best performing stock in the S&P 500 over that period. Traders are anticipating an even sharper move when it reports earnings on Thursday after the bell.
As Nvidia gets ready to report second-quarter earnings, the options market is implying about an 8 percent move in either direction, which is considerably less than the previous 4-quarter average of 14 percent.
According to Dan Nathan of RiskReversal.com, the implied earnings move refers to the at the money straddle, and in Nvidia's case that would be about a $14 shift in either direction.
"If you were inclined to play this stock, when you consider some of the earnings moves it had over the past few quarters, there was one where it was up 30 percent. There was another one where it was up 17 percent. A $14 implied move is not so bad. … I actually think the move is implied pretty cheaply," Nathan said Tuesday on CNBC's "Fast Money."
Nathan outlines several ways using options to play Nvidia into earnings. "If you're long [Nvidia], and it's been up a couple hundred percent over the last couple of years, some near the money puts to protect makes sense. Or some placement at the money calls, that sort of thing."
Nvidia shares were trading at the $170.10 range midday Wednesday.

Tension escalated between North Korea and the United States after President Donald Trump warned the rogue state is facing "fire and fury" and North Korea state media responded by saying the country is considering a missile strike against the U.S. Pacific territory of Guam.
Global and national stock markets, however, remain largely unperturbed.
While safe havens such as gold saw a bump, the CBOE Volatility Index is still down more than 16 percent this year, and the Dow and S&P 500 declined less than 0.5 percent in trading Wednesday.
"The whole idea of a nuclear attack seems so far-fetched or idiotic … that most [investors] are giving this a very low probability," Jim Paulsen, chief investment strategist at the Leuthold Group, told CNBC.
Paulsen says the current market moves are limited to "traders reacting to headlines," calling the situation an "extreme bluster from two leaders who have an abundance of bluster."
Yet as the crisis unfolds, how should investors respond?
The investment team at Columbia Threadneedle, which has around $467 billion in assets under management, on Aug. 3 published the firm's take on what investors should "do when headlines move markets."  This post was popular on the Harvest Exchange research sharing website.
Avoiding an "emotional reaction" is crucial when deciding whether to actually move money in response to a geopolitical event, Columbia Threadneedle says, and investors should ask themselves the three following questions:
The tension with North Korea appears to require an affirmative answer to the firm's first question, as the isolated nation's threat of a missile attack on Guam would fulfill Columbia Threadneedle's criterion for the potential of a superpower being "quickly drawn into a situation." North Korea's saber rattling also could quickly escalate and "ignite involvement from several other countries," to other points the firm said investors must gauge.
For right now, the financial system and oil markets don't seem to be at risk.
Paulsen believes the situation is not yet there, but said financial markets will start to react "the longer this goes on intensifying without someone or something defusing it."
Columbia Threadneedle's post caveats that the bottom line is knowing when to "wait out what is most likely to be a short-term spike in headline-fueled volatility."
"With Trump in office, 'trash talk' is becoming commonplace, with little follow through, and he has found an equally big trash talker in North Korea," Paulsen added.
The banking industry is not paying depositors and fund providers reasonable rates for their money, according to data from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) which insures those deposits. Households and corporate treasurers seem to be oblivious to the fact that interest rates are rising. Consequently, banks are able to pay historically low rates for money and no one who provides the banks with funds seems to care.
One might argue that households lack the power to demand more for their deposits and this may be true. Corporate treasurers, on the other hand, do have some power over what they demand for their funds. The numbers show they are either "snoozing" or they are just not doing their jobs.
History shows, this cannot last.
Two traders are unfazed by bitcoin's meteoric surge and say that between the cryptocurrency and gold, you're better off trading the yellow metal.
Bitcoin has jumped 240 percent this year to a high of $3,288 on Wednesday, while gold was trading at $1,280. But despite the bitcoin gains, Brian Stutland of Equity Armor Investments and Path Trading Partners' Bob Iaccino believe gold is still a better bet than bitcoin from technical and fundamental perspectives.
"When you look at gold over the past couple of months, [it has] tracked very well [relative] to the cryptocurrency," Stutland said Tuesday on CNBC's "Futures Now." "If you price adjust and volatility adjust, I think gold still has a little bit of catching up to do."

As for Iaccino, he believes that while bitcoin's popularity is indisputable, a takeover by another digital currency could be possible, leading him to believe that bitcoin is more unstable than many may think.
"Bitcoin, right now, is the most popular [cryptocurrency] and it is the most valuable one," he said. "But I don't see it as a store of value, because any [other cryptocurrency platform] could come out with a slightly better technology and completely replace bitcoin."
In order to catch up to all the action bitcoin is seeing, Stutland wants to buy gold at the $1,265 level, targeting a move up to $1,285 by December expiration with a stop at $1,250, a key support level that gold has held, according to the trader.
"The volatility is tremendous, so you're going to see wild swings in here and that is something to be aware of," he said.
Gold actually rose more than 1 percent on Wednesday off threats delivered by President Donald Trump and North Korea's Kim Jong Un to one another, the yellow metal being one of the biggest safety trades in times of possible turmoil. Bitcoin, on the other hand, dropped more than 3 percent Wednesday, reversing some of the cryptocurrency's gains from the week
Bill Miller's Income Strategy investment fund has dumped its stake in a high-flying jail operator and placed a bet on malls, despite the threat e-commerce giant Amazon.com poses on the retail industry.
"We think the narrative reflected in current prices has outpaced reality," one of the fund's portfolio managers, Bill Miller IV, said in a second quarter investment strategy update posted July 20. Miller manages the $116 million fund with his father, who rose to prominence through  Legg Mason Capital Management before founding Miller Value Partners.
In the second quarter, it bought two real estate investment trusts for shopping malls, Washington Prime and CBL & Associates, according to the blog post. Both primarily operate in mid-size or smaller U.S. cities such as Peoria, Illinois, and Winston-Salem, N.C.
The stocks have fallen sharply over the last 12 months, down 33 percent and 27 percent, respectively. In that time, struggling retail brands have taken the SPDR S&P Retail ETF (XRT) down 8.5 percent, while Amazon shares have climbed nearly 28 percent.
Hertz's luck may be turning around, but investors will need to wait longer to see results.
Shares of the rental-car company soared nearly 20 percent on Wednesday after positive comments by CEO Kathryn Marinello.
"We have made significant progress in the first half of the year, executing on our operating turnaround plan," Marinello said in a press release Tuesday. "Admittedly, we still have a lot of work to do, but these early wins are evidence that we have the right plan in place to ultimately achieve best-in-class outcomes."
The CEO says the company is focusing on downsizing its fleet of depreciating cars by increasing spending to complete its "transformation" of its fleet.
"Of course, the hard work always comes before the pay off as reflected in our second quarter results, where increased spending to fix areas of weakness and invest in areas of opportunity were exacerbated by a challenging vehicle residual environment in the U.S.," Marinello wrote.
If tensions between the U.S. and North Korea escalate, a flood into safe havens will be the first warning sign, closely followed trader Art Cashin told CNBC on Wednesday.
"You're going to have to watch those safe havens. If they begin to move very rapidly, then we're going to go into a different kind of phase of trading here," Cashin, UBS director of floor operations at the New York Stock Exchange, said in an interview on "Squawk on the Street."
"[Safe havens] will give us the first warning if things are going to shift into the next gear," he added.
U.S. stocks were lower Wednesday, one day after President Donald Trump warned North Korea that any threat to the U.S. would be met with "fire and fury." On Tuesday, North Korea's state media said the country was considering a strike on the U.S. Pacific territory of Guam with mid- to long-range missiles, according to Reuters.
Traditional global safe haven trades like gold and the Swiss franc rose Wednesday. Gold futures were on pace for its best daily performance since May 17, when they gained 1.8 percent. The CBOE volatility index (VIX), widely considered the best gauge of fear in the market, hit its highest level in one month. U.S. Treasury yields were lower.
Cashin pointed out that interestingly, investors are using the yen as a safe haven even though "it is one of the theoretical targets of any breakout."  The dollar weakened against the yen, which is often sought in times of geopolitical tension.
Wall Street is also seeing more caution than panic in Wednesday's trade, Cashin said. He added there are no easy solutions to deal with North Korea's threats. "Nobody's got any good choices here," he said.
Cashin reiterated his concerns about trading in 2017. He said in years that end in 7, markets tend to top out in August and sell off a few months later.
There is one Trump trade still working even as some on Wall Street fret the White House is getting "nothing done."Defense stocks rallied a day after President Donald Trump warned that threats from North Korea "will be met with fire and fury" on Tuesday. The gain in the stocks came as the rest of the market fell on concerns about increased geopolitical tensions in the area.  Lockheed Martin, Northrop Grumman and Raytheon all hit new all-time highs Wednesday morning, rising 1.1 percent, 1.1 percent and 1.9 percent respectively.  Raytheon and Lockheed helped to build the THAAD missile defense system in the Asian region. Even before Wednesday, many of the large defense stocks were already up by double-digit percentages for the year based on expectations for an improved outlook for U.S. defense spending under the Trump administration.The White House proposed a nearly 10 percent increase in the military budget to $603 billion for fiscal 2018 in February.  "This budget will be a public safety and national security budget," Trump said on Feb. 27. He called for a "historic increase in defense spending to rebuild the depleted military of the United States of America at a time we most need it."
The SPDR S&P Aerospace and Defense ETF is up 29 percent since the Nov. 8 election through Tuesday compared with the S&P 500's 16 percent return during the same period.

— CNBC's Jeff Daniels contributed to this story.
Stocks are often shocked into a quick decline when a major geopolitical event occurs, but the ability to recover has been very different.
With the backdrop of rising tensions between North Korea and the U.S., Strategas Research studied the immediate and longer-term impact on the S&P 500 from a series of key events going back to World War II.
The bombing of Pearl Harbor, for instance, resulted in a 3.8 percent drop in the S&P 500 on Dec. 7, 1941. But within 20 days, the index was up 0.3 percent and after 250 days, had risen 3.7 percent.
There was a worse reaction after 9/11, which triggered a 4.9 percent decline in the S&P 500 on the first day. After 20 days, the market recovered and was up 4.9 percent, but after 250 days, it was down 14.3 percent.
The Lehman Brothers failure sparked a 4.7 percent decline in the S&P 500 on Sept. 15, 2008. The S&P was down 15.9 percent after 20 days, and 12.3 percent lower after 250 days.
When Iraq invaded Kuwait 27 years ago this month, the S&P 500 fell 1.1 percent, and was down 9.3 percent 20 days later. But it was up 10 percent in 250 days.
The resignation of President Richard Nixon — 43 years ago to the day — resulted in a first day 0.9 percent sell-off, but 20 days later, the S&P 500 was down 13.8 percent and up 6.7 percent after 250 days.
With U.S. stocks near record highs, strategists say a pullback is due but so far the North Korean situation does not appear to be a trigger for a major sell-off. However, if the situation becomes more than a war of words or if North Korea becomes more successful with its missile launches, that would change the situation immediately.

Source: Strategas Research
Stock market losses have been slight so far, but selling accelerated Thursday and the Dow was down more than 100 points.
Gold moved higher, the dollar rose and bond yields moved lower Thursday as North Korea dismissed warnings from President Donald Trump and outlined plans for a missile strike near the U.S. Pacific territory of Guam. North Korea indicated it would target Guam after some tough talk from Trump, who threatened U.S. "fire and fury"
"The action from the precious metals and bonds are evident there's some discomfort with the headlines," said Todd Sohn, technical analyst at Strategas Research. As for the modest reversal in the S&P 500 on Tuesday and Wednesday's sell off in stocks, "it's not enough for us to abandon ship here. It's not indicative of a top or anything more sinister yet."
The S&P 500 ended the day flat on Wednesday, but was down double digits on Thursday, trading below 2460.

Ten years ago Wednesday, French bank BNP Paribas blocked withdrawals from hedge funds that specialized in U.S. mortgage debt. That Aug. 9, 2007, marked the beginning of a credit crisis that caused investment bank Lehman Brothers to collapse a year later and usher in the Great Recession of 2007-09.
"It's true that the subprime mortgage crisis in the U.S. started a little earlier, in February 2007, but the money markets did not notice until that day in August," said Alexis Stenfors, a former trader for Merrill Lynch who famously lost his company $450 million on currency bets. He is now a business professor at Britain's University of Portsmouth.
"We realized that this problem was going to be a lot bigger than American subprime mortgages and that it was going to spread to all markets — everywhere."
A decade after the meltdown, here's what's changed.
More from USA Today:  Why China is beating the U.S. at innovation  Fed stands pat on rates, signals Sept. cut in $4.5T balance sheet   The Dodd-Frank Act explained
Netflix investors are worrying Disney will not be the last to pull video content from the internet streaming giant. Disney announced Tuesday it intends to remove its movies from Netflix and launch a branded direct-to-consumer streaming service in 2019. Netflix shares fell in the post-market session following the news and opened down 3.9 percent on Wednesday. "Disney's decision to end its distribution deal with Netflix (beginning in 2019) supports our long-held view that content owners will increasingly look to retain content for owned platforms," Jefferies analyst John Janedis wrote in a note to clients Tuesday. "What is unclear is whether or not the largely staggered impact will affect NFLX's growth in net adds. NFLX's content investment likely assumed some non-renewals." Janedis reiterated his hold rating and his $165 price target for Netflix shares, representing 7.5 percent downside to Tuesday's close. One analyst is also concerned Netflix may lose television content from Disney, which owns ABC and Marvel, in the future. "Questions remain, namely … any future loss of ABC and/or Marvel originals production," SunTrust analyst Matthew Thornton wrote Wednesday. "Beyond NFLX loss of some DIS content, DIS's announcement obviously indicates incremental DTC [direct to consumer] streaming competition, particularly for kids audience, beginning 2H19 in the U.S. and Int'l thereafter." To be sure, others on Wall Street defended the company and said the Disney move will not have a large effect on Netflix's growth momentum. "While this will be a negative headline for Netflix, we expect the actual impact on the subscriber base to be minimal," Piper Jaffray analyst Michael Olson wrote Wednesday. "There is no question Disney content was a 'nice to have,' but we believe Netflix can find ways to re-allocate … to create similarly engaging (and more exclusive) content for its subscriber base." Olson estimated Disney content represents only 3 percent of Netflix's annual content costs. He reiterated his overweight rating for Netflix shares and his $215 price target. "Netflix may be losing content from its most important supplier in Disney, but its strategy to pivot to originals, build its own global content brand, and vertically integrate into self production mitigate this loss," Morgan Stanley's Benjamin Swinburne wrote Wednesday. The streaming company is one of the market's best-performing names. Its shares have rallied 44.1 percent this year through Tuesday versus the S&P 500's 10.6 percent return. Netflix did not immediately return a request for comment.
— CNBC's Michael Bloom contributed to this story.
Investors have built up a large short position in investor Carl Icahn's oil refining company, CVR Energy, in the past three months, according to Reuters data, as evidence mounts that the company's gamble on the biofuels market is going sour.
Icahn has been one of the loudest critics of the federal biofuels program.
CVR, in which Icahn holds an 82 percent stake, had about 6.5 percent short interest overall as of mid-July, up from 5.2 percent at the end of March, according to the latest data available from Nasdaq.
That would translate to about a third of the stock not held by Icahn being borrowed by investors betting the company's value will decline. Reuters was unsuccessful in efforts to reach investors in the company.
The rising short interest in CVR comes as the company's massive gamble on U.S. biofuels credits shows signs of going wrong.
The rising demand and limited supply for borrowed shares in CVR has triggered a spike in borrowing fees, from normal ranges of around 2 percent to nearly 19 percent this month, said Ihor Dusaniwsky, a managing director at financial analytics firm S3 Partners in New York. Its own tracking figures show short interest increased to about 6.7 percent of the available shares as of last week.
Although that seems to be a relatively small amount, it is actually a huge percentage of the shares available, given that insiders like Icahn do not typically lend out their shares to short sellers, Dusaniwsky said.
Counsel for Icahn did not respond to requests for comment late on Tuesday.
Investing in the stock market a decade ago today was, in retrospect, an awful way to treat your money.
That's when the global financial crisis began to erupt with the halting of withdrawals from some BNP Paribas funds, ushering in 18 months of wealth destruction and economic peril.
Perhaps surprisingly, though, that money put into stocks at such a bad time would have been treated reasonably well since then by the markets — for those who resisted the natural human flight instinct and held tight during a few scary years that followed.
In the 10 years since the crisis got rolling, the Standard & Poor's 500 index has returned 7.8 percent, annualized, including dividends. That's not far below the very long-term average yearly return of just under 10 percent. So a very unlucky investor who climbed into equities as they were about to careen off a cliff hasn't been hurt too badly.

Check out which companies are making headlines before the bell:
Microsoft – Hedge fund ValueAct sold seven million Microsoft shares, according to a Securities and Exchange Commision filing. ValueAct had sold a similar number of shares earlier this year, but still holds about nine million shares. ValueAct had bought Microsoft in 2013 below $30 and pushed for changes.
Wolverine World Wide – The shoe retailer earned an adjusted 43 cents per share for its latest quarter, 14 cents a share above estimates. Revenue also beat forecasts. The maker of shoe brands like Wolverine, Stride Rite, Sperry, and Keds also raised its full-year forecast.
Office Depot – The office supplies retailer missed estimates by two cents a share, with adjusted quarterly profit of six cents per share. Revenue also missed forecasts. Office Depot also said it expects 2017 sales to be lower than they were a year ago, due to store closures and challenging market conditions.
Southwest Airlines – The airline said revenue passenger miles rose 6 percent in July from a year earlier to 12.4 billion.
Children's Place – The children's apparel retailer reported adjusted quarterly profit of 86 cents per share for the second quarter, 10 cents a share above estimates. Revenue fell short of forecasts. Comparable-store sales were up 3.1 percent, better than the 2.3 percent consensus estimate.
Wendy's – The restaurant chain beat estimates by two cents a share, with adjusted quarterly profit of 15 cents per share. Revenue also topped forecasts. Wendy's said that about one-third of its global restaurants have been "reimaged" as it continues a planned revamping.
Walt Disney — Disney reported adjusted quarterly profit of $1.58 per share, three cents a share above estimates. Revenue fell short of forecasts. Disney also announced it would pull new movies from Netflix beginning in 2019 and launching its own streaming service.
Priceline Group – Priceline earned an adjusted $15.14 per share for its latest quarter, beating estimates of $14.20. Revenue exceeded forecasts, as well. Bookings were slightly short of forecasts, as was the travel website operator's current-quarter earnings guidance.
Hertz Global – Hertz posted an adjusted quarterly loss of 63 cents per share, more than triple the consensus estimate of a 20 cents per share loss. The car rental company's revenue was in line. Hertz said it had made significant progress in its turnaround plan, although it mentioned a "challenging" business environment just as rival Avis Budget Group did on Monday.
TripAdvisor – TripAdvisor beat estimates by eight cents a share, with adjusted quarterly profit of 38 cents per share. The travel website operator's revenue also beat forecasts, however the company cut its full-year 2017 guidance due in part to a shift to less profitable mobile device booking.
Lions Gate Entertainment – Lions Gate came in 10 cents a share ahead of estimates, with quarterly profit of 49 cents per share. The movie and TV studio's revenue was essentially in line with forecasts. Lions Gate's beat came despite underperformance in its television production unit.
Monster Beverage – Monster missed estimates by a penny a share, with quarterly earnings of 39 cents per share. The energy drink maker's revenue beat forecasts. The company said its results were negatively impacted by currency issues as well as production shortages of certain products.
TrueCar — TrueCar earned an adjusted one cent per share for its latest quarter, compared to forecasts of a breakeven quarter. The car-buying service's revenue beat forecasts, however TrueCar issued weaker-than-expected full-year guidance.
Zillow – Zillow earned an adjusted four cents per share for the second quarter, surprising analysts who had expected a one-cent-per-share loss. The real estate website operator's revenue also beat forecasts, as traffic to its sites rose 17 percent compared to a year earlier.
Vantiv – Vantiv clinched its deal to buy Britain's Worldpay for $10 billion, following a preliminary announcement in early July and weeks of talks between the two payment processing companies. The combined company will take the Worldpay name and be headquartered in Cincinnati.
Lockheed Martin – The defense contractor said it was fielding more inquiries about missile defense systems in light of North Korea's increasing number of missile tests and verbal threats.
GoDaddy – GoDaddy earned 10 cents per share for the second quarter, nine cents a share above estimates. The web hosting company's revenue also beat forecasts. GoDaddy's results were boosted by its acquisition of Host Europe Group.
I got a call from an old friend, a veteran trader who had worked on hedge funds and as a high-level stock strategist for many years before being laid off earlier this year.  He called to tell me that he had finally obtained a job, working as a strategist at a very respectable firm. I realized he was one of about a dozen friends who had been fired from senior positions in the last year, and he was the only one who had gotten another job.  Call it The Great Paradox, or Wall Street's Miserable Summer: Even as the markets hit new highs and investor sentiment remains strong, Wall Street continues to lay off its own.  Among the 10 leading global investment banks, head count for traders in fixed income, equities and investment banking are down more than 20 percent from 2011 to 2016 and are declining again this year, according to Coalition, a business intelligence provider.  What's behind this? Another year of record low volatility, low volume, oceans of money leaving active management for passive investing, and the growing use of artificial intelligence to pick stocks for even active managers means that sell-side traders and many hedge funds are suffering through another year of slow business.  In the old days, volume would pick up as stocks hit record highs time and again, but no more.  You can see the miserable state of the trading business in the results from companies like Virtu, one of the world's largest market makers in stocks, bonds, commodities and currencies. They reported earnings this week. CEO Doug Cifu summarized the state of the business: "With volatility measures globally at historic lows, challenging conditions for market makers persisted in the second quarter."  That's putting it mildly: Total revenues were down 16.8 percent year over year. Trading income was down 18.2 percent.  How slow has it been? Here's some excerpts from the report:
1) Why the markets seem so boring. The major indices crawl to new highs, but they aren't moving much on an intraday basis. Realized intraday volatility for the S&P 500 was just 55 basis points in the second quarter. That means on any given day the S&P moved about a half-percent from its high to its low. That's about 12 points. That's 41 percent lower than it was last year.  2) Why traders are getting worried about their jobs. Low volatility means less trading. Average daily consolidated U.S. equity share volume declined 6 percent year over year.  3) The slowdown is happening everywhere, not just the U.S. In Europe, realized intraday volatility dropped 50 percent in the Euro Stoxx 50 index; volume declined 13 percent. In Japan, realized intraday volatility of the Nikkei 225 index dropped 62 percent year over year; volume declined 9 percent.  4) It's not just stocks, it's happening in commodity and bond trading as well. the JPMorgan commodity volatility index dropped 18 percent year over year, as did other measures of commodity volatility. The Deutsche Bank FX Volatility Index (CVIX), a measure of investors' expectations of future currency volatility, declined 29 percent.
Traders are not just getting fired — they're getting paid less. Pay is down 5 percent to 15 percent for equity sales traders just from 2015 to 2016, according to Johnson Associates.  Is it all over for a Wall Street career? Not necessarily — but forget about the traditional analyst and trading job. UBS says they are hiring psychologists, as well as experts from fields like pricing and shipping, to complement the firm's research process. Others are hiring behavioral psychologists, social media consultants and computer geeks who can write code to execute complicated algorithms.  "We're hiring physicists, we're not hiring Ivy League athletes," Cifu told me.
—CNBC's Kirsten Chang contributed to this report

One of Wall Street's most closely followed commodities watchers says natural gas bulls are about to get stuck. "The supply curve is on the cusp of really starting to take off in response to a dry gas rig count in the U.S. that's gone from 80 rigs to 189 rigs in the last 12 months," Robert Raymond said Tuesday on CNBC's "Futures Now" when discussing oversupply in the market. "People are underestimating how much associated natural gas is really going to come out of a lot of the 'oil shale wells' as well." The founder of RCH Energy explained that these factors will continue to spur overproduction in the market. From here, Raymond believes this action will serve as a lead balloon for the price of the commodity. "We think there's reasonable risk down to the $2.20 to $2.30 range," noted Raymond, who added there's additional risk for nat gas falling to $1.75 before the end of the year. From current levels, a drop to $1.75 in the next three to six months would represent more than a 30 percent decline in price. "Ultimately, the issue becomes the associated gas production that's going to come out of places like West Texas and Oklahoma, which is probably enough to satiate the demand curve," warned Raymond.
"If the dry gas guys keep drilling, at some point you're going to have to bid gas prices down to a level to get some of them to stop drilling." Before this call, Raymond had been waving a red warning flag on natural gas prices. In February he reaffirmed his bearish outlook for nat gas on "Fast Money" noting that "it's hard to get constructive on gas." Within a week of the call, prices tumbled 10 percent en route to 2017 lows. Now, despite a slight recovery in March, nat gas is down 24 percent year to date.

"In the back half of the year, you're going to see supply grow by a [billion cubic feet of natural gas] per day each month between now and Christmas," Raymond said. "The demand just can't keep up with that."
Activist investor Morfit Mason and ValueAct sold about 7 million shares of Microsoft's stock over the past week, according to regulatory filings released on Tuesday.
The shares were sold at prices ranging from $72.50 apiece to $72.61 apiece, valuing the stake at over $500 million.
Morfit sits on Microsoft's board of directors, a seat he got after ValueAct's campaign in 2013. The San Francisco-based investment company announced a $2 billion stake in Microsoft on CNBC, amid shareholder grumblings that the stock had not performed well under then-CEO Steve Ballmer.
Ballmer announced his resignation shortly before ValueAct was granted a board seat, although he said it was not related to pressure from ValueAct.
Shares of Microsoft have shot up nearly 125 percent since Ballmer announced his retirement in August 2013, when shares traded at prices between $30 and $35 a share. CEO Satya Nadella has pushed the company deeper into cloud computing and computer hardware, and made a splash acquisition of LinkedIn, expected to expand Microsoft's reach into industries like recruiting and human resources.
More recently, ValueAct, which manages about $15 billion, has turned its attention to companies like Valeant Pharmaceuticals, and also has stakes in various energy, healthcare and technology companies.
After Disney issued its quarterly earnings report on Tuesday and announced it would end its partnership with Netflix, Jim Cramer watched shares of Netflix drop with intrigue.
"It's sinking more in after-hours [trading] on the news that Disney is ending its movie deal with Netflix [in] 2019, in part so it can do its own streaming service, although that news isn't stopping Disney's stock itself from declining on a revenue miss in part from weaker cable numbers, even as the earnings were better than expected," the "Mad Money" host said.
Disney and Pixar movies will be moved off Netflix's platform towards the end of 2018. Also on Tuesday, Disney CEO Bob Iger told CNBC that the two companies have a "good relationship."
The entertainment giant is also planning to launch its own streaming service for its sports network, ESPN, which drove a 23 percent decline in Disney's cable operating income.
Netflix's stock was down more than 3 percent in after-hours trading as of Tuesday evening.
In addition to tracking its decline, Cramer also reviewed the retail stocks that are finally starting to stand up to the dominant force of Amazon.
Since the stock market decided point-blank that Amazon would bring about the death of all things retail, Jim Cramer has noticed a change in sentiment that suggests that may not be the case.
"I think the market's finally starting to behave logically, at least when it comes to many phases of retail, which have been in a bear market," the "Mad Money" host said. "No one's denying that Amazon's incredibly powerful, but many blindsided retail CEOs have finally begun to come to terms with the new reality, and now, they're fighting back."
Cramer pointed to earnings reports from Michael Kors and Ralph Lauren, both of which topped Wall Street's expectations and seemed to stem their stocks' Amazon-fueled losses.
While neither company reported positive same-store sales, a key metric for retail companies, shares of both retailers still climbed on the news.
"Why? Because their managements are finally acting like they have a clue, and arresting the decline is the first step in turning things around," Cramer said.
For example, Kors' management touted its digital partnerships, fashion engagement initiatives, and recently announced acquisition of high-end shoe brand Jimmy Choo.
"These kinds of old-school apparel companies need to make smart partnerships if they're going to have any hope of keeping Amazon at bay," Cramer said.
Ralph Lauren's executives also talked up the company's digital and global expansions, focusing on pushing e-commerce initiatives forward while improving the overall customer experience.
"These are all the things that Amazon's so great at. It's why we all go to Amazon. The only way to beat Amazon is by becoming more like Amazon," the "Mad Money" host said.
At the same time as these retailers differentiate themselves from the companies Amazon is likely to destroy, names like Home Depot and Children's Place are also improving their outlooks.
Analysts like JPMorgan's Matthew Boss have positive stances on the likes of TJX and Burlington Stores, too, as off-price stores begin to outpaced traditional mall-based outlets.
"Now, we know Amazon's still out there, lurking," Cramer said. "CVS today reported a good number, but not a great one, and it's very clear that Amazon's cutting into the front of its store business."
But aside from the food-based retailers, retail as a sector is starting to put up a shield against Amazon, a sign that the industry may not be erased as quickly as previously thought.
"The bottom line? Look, I am not saying Amazon's finally in the rearview mirror," Cramer said. "I just think that some retailers can survive their onslaught a lot better than others, and, at last, the stock market has started to figure that out."
One corner of the Treasury market is worried the U.S. government could default this fall, even though many strategists believe Congress will raise the debt ceiling just in time.
The Treasury bill that comes due in October has been selling off, and is currently yielding more than the bills that mature in September and November, amid concerns the government would hit the debt limit at the beginning of October and not have funds to pay investors.
While Congress is expected to act to raise the debt ceiling — the legislative cap on how much the government can borrow — it isn't expected to forego its usual drama.
"I think we will ultimately see a resolution, but it would not surprise me to see this go down to the middle of September, end of September to get this done. They [bills] could cheapen more," said Mark Cabana, head of U.S. short rate strategy at Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
The Treasury bill due Oct. 12 was yielding 1.08 percent Tuesday, while the Nov. 9 bill was yielding less – 1.03 percent. The September, 1-month bill, was yielding 0.99 percent. The normal progression is that the later-dated bills would yield more. Analysts say the November bill is yielding less than the October bill because the market believes any issue would be quickly resolved.
"We now have Congress in recess. They're not expected to come back until Sept. 5. At that point, there's only 12 days when the House and Senate are jointly in session," Cabana said. "The market is right to price in some potential that things could go wrong, but our baseline is it will not get to that point and we will see some resolution."
Congress suspended the debt ceiling in November 2015 for 17 months, ending in March. Since then the Treasury took extraordinary measures to fund the budget deficit, but it is expected to run out of capacity by early October. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin has warned Congress it has to raise the ceiling by Sept. 29.
Stocks, meanwhile, have shrugged off any concerns so far, though strategists have September in their sights for potential turbulence if Congress does not show signs of moving forward ont the debt ceiling. Both the Dow and S&P 500 hit new highs during Tuesday trading.
"There's a slight risk it could become a broader market issue if there's concern that there's dysfunction on a core issue like this," said Tom Block, Fundstrat Washington policy strategists.
The U.S. exchange-traded fund that tracks South Korean stocks erased gains and fell nearly 1 percent Tuesday amid fears of an escalating North Korea nuclear threat.
The South Korean stocks ETF then fell to session lows in the afternoon after President Donald Trump said the U.S. would react strongly to any North Korean threats.
"They will be met with fire and fury like the world has never seen," Trump said.
Earlier, the iShares MSCI South Korea Capped ETF (EWY) erased a 0.1 percent gain after a report said North Korea can now fit nuclear weapons into missiles. EWY closed 0.85 percent lower, slightly off session lows.
iShares MSCI South Korea ETF (EWY), 1 day

"Trump needs to learn the value of silence," Robert Manning, senior fellow at think tank Atlantic Council, said in an email to CNBC. "It only ratchets up tensions unnecessarily to play this dumb tit-for-tat rhetorical game with North Korea."
Manning said Trump should have simply stated that any use of weapons of mass destruction by North Korea "will result in a swift and overwhelming U.S. response that will be the end of North Korea. He should leave it at that. Where are the grown-ups?"
The Washington Post first reported the nuclear weapon news, sparking the dive in the EWY, and the report was later confirmed by NBC News. The report comes less than two weeks after the North Korean government tested an intercontinental ballistic missile that could reach as far as New York.
"Korean asset markets have performed strongly this year, but are starting to look more fragile," said Callum Henderson, an analyst at Eurasia Group, in a note Monday.
The EWY and the Kospi index, South Korea's benchmark stock index, have handily outperformed the S&P 500 this year, advancing 29.3 percent and 18.2 percent respectively. The S&P 500, meanwhile, has risen 10.6 percent.
The ETF's largest holdings include Samsung Electronics, SK Hynix and Posco.
Henderson also pointed out that South Korea's currency, the won, has been the worst-performer in Asia against the dollar since July 21. In that time period, the won has fallen 0.8 percent against the greenback.
The Dow Jones industrial average also fell to its low for the day after the Trump comments.
— CNBC's Evelyn Cheng contributed to this report.
The financial markets are acting really wacky right now. There are some very strange divergences going on.
Here are just two that really stick out:
1) The Dow has been a monster in the past couple of weeks, but everything else is flat to down. You can blame this on the way the Dow is constructed, the improvement in the global economy and the weaker dollar.
Dow's 10-day win streak(since July 24)Dow: up 2.8 percentS&P 500: up 0.5 percentDow Transports: down 1.5 percentRussell 2000: down 1.7 percent
The Dow is up 2.8 percent, but the small-cap Russell 2000 is down 1.7 percent? That's a bit odd.
There are three likely reasons for this:
First, the Dow is a price-weighted index, so the highest-priced stocks move the index more than the lower-priced stocks (the S&P 500 and most other indices are market-cap weighted indexes).
Recently, higher priced stocks have been bigger movers and are pushing the Dow around. For example, the Dow has moved a little over 600 points since July 24. The highest-priced stocks — including Boeing, Goldman Sachs, UnitedHealth, Apple and Home Depot — have moved significantly in that time.
Dow biggest contributors(since July 24)Boeing: 32 percentGoldman Sachs: 17 percentHome Depot: 10 percentApple: 8 percentUnited Health: 5 percentRemainder: 29 percent
Only 3M — another of the highest priced stocks — hasn't been a big mover recently.
Second, the global economy has been doing very well this year, and many of the Dow members get a significant amount of their revenue outside the United States. Here are just a few examples:
Global exposure game(percentage of revenue from outside the US)McDonald's: 66 percentApple: 65 percentAmerican Express: 61 percentBoeing: 60 percent3M: 60 percent
Source: FactSet
Third, the dollar has dropped more than 5 percent since the start of the second quarter, which is a major tailwind for company earnings overseas.
The S&P of course, also has these stocks, and that index benefits as well, but with 500 stocks the S&P has many more companies that are in the mid-cap and even small-cap universe that don't benefit as much from overseas growth.
2) Crude has been rallying, but oil stocks are not participating. Oil stocks are tightly tied to the price of oil, but that has been decoupling recently:
Crude oil vs. oil stocks(since July 24)Crude oil: up 6.7 percentE&P ETF (XOP): down 2.7 percent
There's an obvious reason this is happening: oil has been a huge disappointment this year. Analysts had confidently predicted oil would be close to $60 by the third quarter; instead, it has been mired in a $45 to $50 trading range, and dipped as low as $42 in the middle of June.
As a result, analysts have been aggressively taking down third quarter earnings estimates for oil stocks. At the beginning of April, earnings were expected to be up a whopping 222 percent for the period ending Sept. 30, but now they're expected to be up only half that:
Q3 Earnings: Energy EarningsApril 1: up 222%July 1: up 186%August 8: up 132%Source: Thomson Reuters
Yes, earnings estimates typically come down a bit going into the quarter because analysts are overly optimistic, but not by 50 percent. That is huge.
Once again, oil stocks are presenting a huge buying opportunity for investors. But having been badly burned already this year, they appear to be attracting far fewer buyers. The last time oil stocks rallied off their lows — it was early June — a notable inflow of money went into oil ETFs as investors bet that oil had finally bottomed around $45.
Wrong! Oil dropped to $42, and investors who bought in early June were selling by the end of the month.
Now oil is rallying again, this time toward $50. But oil stocks aren't following. Given what has happened this year, who can blame investors for staying on the sidelines?
Just three months ago, disappointing department store earnings sparked an intense sell-off in retail stocks.
In the week following each of their financial reports, Macy's, Kohl's, Nordstrom and J.C. Penney shaved a combined $3.71 billion from their market capitalization. While Kohl's, Nordstrom and Penney's have recouped losses since then, Macy's still trades nearly 18 percent lower than when the company issued first-quarter results.
This week, Wall Street is waiting in anticipation to see if that same scenario will play out again. Macy's, Kohl's, Nordstrom and Dillard's are scheduled to report earnings on Thursday, with J.C. Penney's results out Friday morning.
Early signs are hinting at negative to flat same-store sales across the board for department stores, JPMorgan analyst Matthew Boss said in a note to clients. But his firm also has increased comparable sales estimates for Kohl's, Dillard's and Nordstrom this quarter, expecting store traffic to be a tad better.
Boss added that he expects cost savings to be a "theme" for department stores this quarter. That would be a welcome change from the retail woes that started 2017. These retailers are just begging for a new narrative.
Nobody is questioning that department stores remain the "laggards" of the retail world, GlobalData Retail managing director Neil Saunders told CNBC in an interview. "There are no real dynamics or shifts to suggest that the tide is turning in their favor."
That being said, "many of those [chains] reporting are up against very weak comparatives from the prior year, which may make declines less harsh," Saunders pointed out.
Improved weather, holidays like Mother's Day and Father's Day, and an end to delayed tax refunds should help this quarter's results come in better than last, for most, Telsey Advisory Group's Dana Telsey told CNBC. Among the department stores, she expects Penney's, Nordstrom and Kohl's to be able to beat Street estimates.
JPMorgan's Boss said he thought that each month of the second quarter was better than the prior month of the period for department stores, marking another encouraging sign.
But let's not get ahead of ourselves. All department store retailers are still expected to post same-store sales declines this quarter, according to data from Thomson Reuters. Although the first quarter was tough, "being better than awful" this go-round doesn't make everything good again, GlobalData Retail's Saunders said.
According to Thomson Reuters analyst Jharonne Martis, Macy's same-store sales are expected to be the worst of the four and are forecast to drop 3.2 percent. In the second quarter of 2016, Macy's comps fell 2 percent.
Over the past three months, department stores have all been in the news both for better and for worse.
Nordstrom is reportedly running out of time to sign a deal to go private and has been courting investors with preferential terms. That's sure to be a question raised on Thursday's earnings conference call.
"Nordstrom's update will be overshadowed by speculation over whether or not the company will go private," Saunders said. "The market will seek a more substantive update on management's position — although they may well be left wanting."
Macy's is in the midst of growing its off-price brand, Macy's Backstage. New to the job, Macy's CEO Jeff Gennette is still figuring out how the company will be able to compete with other off-prices players like T.J. Maxx and Ross.
Smaller chain Dillard's marks the latest target by activists for its real estate — similar pressure that Macy's had also been under from hedge fund Starboard Value.
Meantime, analysts are looking to learn more about how Under Armour merchandise has been selling at Kohl's since the two formed a partnership. And J.C. Penney iwas scheduled to close 138 stores on July 31.
DoubleLine Capital CEO and Chief Investment Officer Jeffrey Gundlach predicts bond yields will rise and lead to market volatility.
"One of the things that I follow to give a really good short-term cyclical indication of the yield of the 10-year Treasury is the ratio of copper to gold," Gundlach said Tuesday on CNBC's "Halftime Report."
The bond manager cited how on Tuesday the copper-to-gold ratio hit the high of the year and for the previous 12 months.
"When the copper-gold ratio is rising it's incredibly suggestive that something is going on that might be a little inflationary," he said. "It suggests to me yields are going to break out to the upside. ... The leg up in yields will be a catalyst of volatility in the market."
Copper futures relative to Gold futures, 1 year

Source: FactSet
As a result, Gundlach believes it may be wise to lower exposure to assets that are up dramatically during the bull market.
"I think you should be de-risking systematically," Gundlach said. "Even if it takes six to nine months for the markets to head down you're not giving up very much."
DoubleLine has assets under management of more than $100 billion, according to its website.
Gundlach is betting that as yields jump, it will cause volatility — as measured by the CBOE Volatility Index— to double. The money manager is currently long put options on the S&P 500 that will increase in value if the market pulls back, something Gundlach believes it will do, to the tune of 3 percent.
Investors like Gundlach watch the ratio because copper is a measure of inflation. So if it is increasing in value versus an inflation hedge like gold, then bond prices should be lower and yields higher.
Copper/gold ratio (yellow) vs. 10-year Treasury yield, 1 year (green)

Source: FactSet
Barclays is saying the cryptocurrency mining-driven demand for AMD's graphics cards will not last and is telling investors to avoid the chipmaker's shares.
The bank's semiconductor analyst, Blayne Curtis, reiterated his underweight rating and his $9 price target for AMD, representing 33 percent downside from Monday's close. "We are revisiting AMD's last earnings release with an analysis of the [Ethereum] tailwind, which now appears to be the source of the better revenue in June/Sept [guidance], and why investors should place very little value on this earnings stream," Curtis wrote in a note to clients Tuesday. "We believe estimates could be too high next year should this [Ethereum] tailwind dry up."Cryptocurrency miners use graphics cards from AMD and Nvidia to "mine" new coins, which can then be sold or held for future appreciation. AMD traditionally has a better reputation for mining cryptocurrencies such as Ethereum, according to Wall Street. Ethereum cryptocurrency is up more than 3,300 percent year to date through Tuesday, according to data from industry website CoinDesk. The analyst said that outside the cryptocurrency mining market demand, AMD has lost market share to Nvidia in the gaming market, according to data from Steam, a digital PC game store. In addition, he estimates due to high graphics card prices in the secondary market it is now not profitable to mine Ethereum.
"We still believe AMD is seeing little traction with its server chip (Epyc) and this likely crypto headwind only bolsters our underweight thesis," Curtis wrote.  The company's shares are one of the market's best-performing equities in the past year with the stock up nearly 100 percent in the past 12 months through midday Tuesday compared with the S&P 500's 14 percent return. That performance ranks No. 3 in the entire S&P 500, according to FactSet.
The chipmaker reported better-than-expected second-quarter earnings and guidance last month.AMD sent the following statement in response to this story:
"While our GPUs have obvious applications in cryptocurrency, our main corporate focus remains on PCs, Gaming, and the Datacenter. We realize the uncertainty of the cryptocurrency market and are not looking at it as a long-term growth driver, but we'll certainly continue to monitor the developments around blockchain technologies as they go forward."
— CNBC's Michael Bloom contributed to this story.
JPMorgan Chase CEO Jamie Dimon stopped short of saying the bond market is on the cusp of a collapse, but said he wouldn't personally buy any long-term government debt.
"I'm not going to call it a bubble, but I personally wouldn't be buying a 10-year sovereign debt anywhere in the world," he told CNBC on Tuesday.
"My view is the Fed is doing the right things, raising rates, telling people we're going to start reducing the balance sheet," Dimon added.
The CEO spoke after former Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan warned on Friday that the bond market could collapse and it will also threaten stock prices. Once it starts "it will be rather rapid," he added in a CNBC interview.
Since December 2015, the Fed has approved four rate hikes, but government bond yields remained mired near record lows.
"I'm not concerned for JPMorgan because we'll be fine whatever the environment is," Dimon said in a wide-ranging interview with CNBC's "Squawk Alley."
The likely scenario is that the bond market will all right and the Fed reducing its balance sheet will not be disruptive to the U.S. economy, Dimon said. Although there is always a chance the central bank could be disruptive, he added.
"We've never had the reverse of QE 1, 2, or 3 before. If you see the ECB doing it and the United States doing it and maybe the environment is not the environment that people expect. People can not predict the future," Dimon said.
Over the past several months, the Fed has prepared markets for the upcoming effort to reduce the $4.5 trillion it currently holds of mostly Treasurys and mortgage-backed securities. The balance sheetballooned as the Fed sought to stimulate the economy out of its financial crisis morass.
Bank of America Merrill Lynch strategists are expressing an increasingly common sentiment on Wall Street — still on board the stock market train but increasingly skeptical about what's fueling the run.
In that environment, BofAML recommends high-quality bonds and financial stocks as outperformers.
"Investors may be well served by locking in some profits in U.S. stocks," BofAML said in a note.
The firm told clients this week that of the three pillars holding up the most recent leg of the eight-year bull market, two are wobbling. Only low bond yields, which are barely above the dividend yield of the S&P 500, are still in place.
The other two — accommodative central bank policies and earnings growth — are fading.
The former is obvious, with the U.S. Federal Reserve and its global counterparts slowly reversing the ultra-low interest rates and ultra-high liquidity programs they had put in place after the financial crisis.
But the latter is less apparent, particularly considering corporate America is in the middle of another solid earnings season.
BofAML strategists see cracks in the profit picture. Gains ahead are projected to slow, with equity and quant strategist Savita Subramanian expecting S&P 500 bottom-line growth to decelerate to 8 percent in 2017 and 5 percent in 2018.
Jefferies reined in expectations for back-to-school sales after its consumer survey showed a "marked shift" in customer intentions to buy apparel this fall.
Jefferies surveyed more than 500 consumers to gauge shopping intentions for the 2017 back-to-school season and concluded that department stores and specialty apparel are set for the most cutbacks.
"Respondents anticipate spending less at almost all department stores surveyed," wrote Jefferies analyst Daniel Binder. "Data for JC Penney, Sears, and Macy's is concerning given these concepts show sharp anticipated declines in purchase intentions this year and/or they are marking two consecutive years of declines."
Department store stocks have dropped sharply this year, with Macy's down 33 percent, Target down 18 percent, and Kohl's down 12 percent.
The Dow on Tuesday snapped an ultra-rare streak of wins.
The Dow Jones industrial average climbed for 10 straight days, through Monday, for its second winning streak of 10 days or longer this year (after its 12-day win streak in February). That means that 2017 already marks the first year in which the Dow has had two winning streaks of 10 sessions or longer since 1959.
On Tuesday after President Trump issued a warning to North Korea regarding the country's nuclear program, the Dow gave back its mild gains, and closed the day 33 points lower.
In early Tuesday trading, the Dow hit a new record high of 22,167.
Eddy Elfenbein, portfolio manager at AdvisorShares, called the historic string of winning sessions "pretty impressive," but added that "these are actually pretty baby steps as far as the up days for the Dow. So in aggregate, we're not talking about a rip-roaring rally; it's just that they've all been consecutive."
In the 10 sessions through Monday's close, the Dow rose by 2.8 percent.
Elfenbein added Monday on CNBC's "Trading Nation" that because the Dow weights its components by share price, the performance of the index is "really not reflective of what the broader market is doing."
A good example of this is Goldman Sachs, Elfenbein pointed out. The stock, which has gained in 8 of the last 11 sessions, is the second-highest priced name in the index, "and that's what's pushing up the Dow each day." This despite the fact that Goldman is the fifth-smallest stock in the index by market value.
Still, the historical Dow stat does further burnish the confidence of some who are motivated by momentum.
"I see a bull market. I think 10 up days ... that's consistent with what you see in a bull market," Ari Wald, head of technical analysis at Oppenheimer, said Monday on "Trading Nation." "There's not a contrarian call to make here; this is a trend-following call. I think the key point is that this is an established uptrend, it's a healthy uptrend and we think it should continue."
Wald says that the market's breadth, or its strength gauged by the number of components advancing against the number of components declining, is strong. The percentage of index components in an uptrend above their 200-day average has risen to 90 percent, Wald pointed out, as the index has rallied in recent sessions.
"Typically, rallies with a lot of stocks participating tend to be the rallies that continue; that's what we have here," the technical analyst said.
Morgan Stanley upgraded Foot Locker to overweight from underweight Tuesday, saying the shoe retailer has an edge over Amazon.com in the high-end market.
"We believe Foot Locker can withstand the challenge from Amazon," Jay Sole, equity analyst, and Edward Ryan, research associate, said in a Tuesday note.
They have a 12-month $65 price target on Foot Locker, which is 33 percent higher than the stock's Monday closing price and close to where it traded in December. The shares climbed 4 percent Tuesday morning to above $50, still about 30 percent lower year to date.
Less than 5 percent of Foot Locker's 200 best-selling shoes are available on Amazon, the analysts said, while top athletic brands like Nike and Adidas still prefer to sell shoes through the brick-and-mortar retailer at an average price of $130 a pair.
"Amazon has positioned itself as a mid-market/mass retailer. It carries essentially none of the top selling, high-end styles from Nike and Adidas and we don't think that will change," the report said. "We expect FL to surprise the market by returning to 3-5% comp growth over the coming quarters."
The analysts estimate the higher-end athletic shoe market accounts for about 20 to 25 percent of the total footwear market, while Amazon is likely more focused on the larger, lower-end shoe market.
"We think brands will continue to allocate to Foot Locker a high-end product assortment which includes many styles consumers can't find anywhere else," the report said. "This unique high-end product offering is what will sustain Foot Locker over the long term."
There's a new top bull on Tesla. Argus Research's Bill Selesky slapped a $444 target on the share price and upgraded Telsa to a buy from a hold.
The price target is by far the most aggressive on Wall Street, according to FactSet. It's also 25 percent higher than Monday's closing price of $355. Tesla is up 57 percent in the last year. The shares rose more than 3 percent Tuesday.

"Our upgrade reflects recent strong orders for the Model 3," Selesky said in a note to investors. The new model is expected to hit the market en masse by the end of this year. Right now the company is getting about 1,800 orders a day for the Model 3. Argus points out that number is "without a lot of advertising or marketing campaigns."
The cost of the Model 3 is expected to be $35,000, well below Tesla's other offerings.
Selesky did note some headwinds. He cautioned that "the Model 3 will boost labor and overhead costs in the near term." But the analyst said those costs will drop going into 2018.
Jeffrey Gundlach joins the list of fund managers sounding warnings about the markets.
Like Oaktree Capital's Howard Marks, Gundlach is seeing danger signs. Junk bonds and emerging market debt are overvalued, Gundlach tells Bloomberg News. The manager of $110 billion-asset DoubleLine Capital says he's moving out of those assets and putting money in higher quality debt, willing to give up higher returns for the sake of safety.
He says volatility is about to go up from its historically low level. He recently bought five- and eight-month put options on the S&P 500 — a bet the index will fall — and could score returns of 400 percent if his instinct is correct. "That's my highest conviction trade right now," he told Bloomberg.
He's even worried about his fund firm getting too big, saying he might cut off marketing efforts when it reaches $150 billion in assets under management and is already turning money away in its institutional business, according to Bloomberg.
Still, he's not forecasting disaster. "I don't see the big drop, unless there's something out of left field," he told Bloomberg, "like some sort of really escalating conflict." Optimism about tax reform and infrastructure spending promised by the Trump administration has faded, but consumer confidence and employment are strong. Enthusiasm for the markets may be just a tad too much, however.
"I think you're supposed to be gradualistically moving toward the exits," Gundlach told Bloomberg.
"If you're waiting for the catalyst to show itself, you're going to be selling at a lower price."
Gundlach is scheduled to appear on CNBC's "Halftime Report" on Tuesday.

Shares of FibroGen are soaring more than 45 percent in midday trading Tuesday after the biotech reported positive study results for a potential blockbuster drug.
The biotech company's drug pamrevlumab, a treatment for fatal lung disease idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, successfully completed a mid-stage FDA test.
"Significant value creation should occur now," Jefferies analyst Michael Yee wrote in a note after the results. The analyst believes the drug should add $3 to $4 billion to FibroGen's market cap eventually or $35 to $50 to its share price.
The stock surged as much as 52 percent, or $17.45 a share, to $50.80 in early trading Tuesday. It is on pace for the best daily performance ever since it began trading publicly in November 2014. The stock traded more than twelve times its 30-day average volume, with nearly 5 million shares changing hands on Tuesday.
While phase 2 testing for idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis is complete, FibroGen announced it will continue phase 2 testing of pamrevlumab as a treatment for both pancreatic cancer and Duchenne muscular dystrophy.
Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis is a disease which scars lung tissue, leading to organ dysfunction and eventual failure within a few years of diagnosis. FibroGen said in its most recent quarterly report that "pamrevlumab was well tolerated" by patients in phase 2 study. Jefferies' Yee believes the drug should post similar results in phase 3.
FibroGen reported a loss of $33.2 million in the second quarter, and reported an EPS loss of 48 cents per share, slightly missing Wall Street's expectations of a loss of 47 cents per share.
The company's stock was up more than 56 percent this year before Tuesday's open, and was leading the iShare Nasdaq Biotechnology ETF in pre-market trading.
Michael Kors' share price surged Tuesday after the designer reported stronger comparable sales in North America and Europe and quarterly profit and revenue that beat expectations.
By late morning, the share price was up nearly 20 percent.
In its earnings report for the fiscal first quarter, Kors said profits fell 15 percent and revenue was down 3.6 percent from a year earlier, but the results far exceeded expectations.
Kors also raised its sales outlook for the full year, showing signs that its turnaround efforts were working.
"We are encouraged by our first quarter performance, although we continue to believe that fiscal 2018 will be a transition year for our company, as we focus on laying the foundation for the future by executing on our strategic plan," CEO John Idol said in a statement.
The luxury fashion designer said its fiscal first quarter net income attributable to the company dropped 15 percent to $125.5 million, or 80 cents per share, from $147.1 million, or 83 cents a share, a year earlier.
The previous fiscal first quarter figure included one-time costs related to the acquisition of a Greater China licensee. Excluding that charge, Kors had earned 90 cents a share.
While its profits fell, the results outpaced expectations: Analysts surveyed by Thomson Reuters on average had predicted Kors would earn 62 cents per share. That was also the midpoint of the company's own forecast range.
"The numbers are something of a step forward," GlobalData Retail Managing Director Neil Saunders wrote in an email to clients.
"While the numbers may strengthen [from here], the rest of this fiscal year will essentially be one of rebuilding and refining the brand, as well as closing further excess capacity and investing in channels and stores that have the best forward potential."
Total revenue for the first quarter came in at $952.4 million, again topping analysts' estimates for sales of $918.6 million, according to Thomson Reuters.
Saunders said the drop in revenue from last year was more a "necessary evil" than a surprise as Kors leaves stores that no longer fit the brand's new strategy. "Reducing ubiquity comes with a price attached," he said.
Michael Kors' same-store sales dropped 5.9 percent during the period, but analysts surveyed by FactSet had predicted a 9 percent decline.
"This trend of beating expectations is likely to continue as the top line appears on a path of improvement from here," Jefferies analyst Randal Konik wrote in a note to clients. The "turn [is] taking place."
Earlier this summer, Kors announced plans to buy London-based shoemaker Jimmy Choo in a deal valued at $1.2 billion.
"This will not be [Michael Kors'] last acquisition," CEO Idol told CNBC in a phone interview shortly after the acquisition was announced.
Idol has reiterated time and again that Michael Kors is focused on forming a "luxury group." On Tuesday, he added that a more diverse portfolio will play well as the retailer looks to increase exposure in international markets.
Michael Kors has seen its same-store sales drop in recent quarters, with fewer shoppers flocking to brick-and-mortar department stores to ring up big purchases. Additionally, the retailer's core handbag business has slowed, with competitors rolling out heavier discounts and promotions, enticing women to shop for bargains.
The pressure on Kors intensified in May, when rival Coach agreed to buy Kate Spade in a $2.4 billion deal.
In updating its outlook, Kors said that once the Jimmy Choo deal is finalized, incremental revenue will be about $275 million for the second half of fiscal 2018. And in fiscal 2019, Michael Kors expects incremental revenues of $570 million to $580 million.
Not including results from Jimmy Choo, Kors raised its annual revenue forecast to about $4.28 billion and called for comparable sales to decrease only to the midsingle digits. It previously expected sales of $4.25 billion.
"Management guided to both better top and bottom-line metrics for next quarter and the fiscal year, which is key as the market has been afraid of more guidance cuts," Konik said. "That's simply not happening."
The analyst added that the "strategic direction is positive" for Kors from here on out.
As of Monday's close, Michael Kors' stock has dropped about 26 percent in the past 12 months, including nearly 13 percent this year. In the past month, the stock has inched up 3.3 percent.
Former Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan is wrong about a bond bubble, and interest rates can go much lower, closely followed strategist Mark Grant said Tuesday.
Greenspan warned on Friday that the bond market is on the cusp of a collapse that will threaten stock prices. Once it starts "it will be rather rapid," he added in the CNBC interview.
"I think Mr. Greenspan is wrong, and I think a lot of people that are projecting all year that we're going to have 3 percent on the 10-year have been wrong," said Grant, chief strategist at Hilltop Securities.
"The central banks, according to the World Economic Forum, have created about $15 trillion in excess liquidity in the system," he said on CNBC's "Squawk Box." "Basically, the central banks created an economy that's 85 percent of the economy of the United States or China. And consequently, you have this giant amount of liquidity of money in the system that has been buoying equities, and it's been keeping interest rates low."
Grant said it may not matter what the U.S. central bank does because other banks are injecting liquidity even though markets have been expecting the European Central Bank to begin unwinding the stimulus it used in the aftermath of the global financial crisis.
On the morning of Election Day, Grant correctly predicted that the stock market would rally in the event of a surprise Donald Trump victory.
Grant said Tuesday investors should not short banks. He said U.S. tax reform will be beneficial, but American financials are stronger than in Europe.
"I wouldn't buy a European bank bond for all the tea in China," he said.
York Capital Management founder Jamie Dinan says he's finding "huge opportunities" in Japan and Europe.
"What we've been doing in Japan is playing the whole restructuring of the Japanese conglomerates ... by trying to figure out which subsidiaries they are going to sell," Dinan said Tuesday on CNBC's "Squawk Box."
The hedge fund manager also believes the restructuring theme is also working in Europe.
"Europe is the same thing happening right now. You're starting to see in Europe activism for example. Big companies like Unilever, Nestle are under pressure," he said. "European equities are really interesting." Dinan also defended active management and emphasized "good managers will outperform." He noted how the move to passive funds bodes well for future hedge fund industry returns.
"It's less crowded right now. A lot of the money has left the strategies we do," Dinan said. "The supply-demand imbalance is actually much more in favor of finding alpha and creating excess returns."
The flagship York Multi Strategy Fund is up 18 percent through July compared with the S&P 500's 10.3 percent return. Dinan's firm says it has $17 billion of assets under management.
The second quarter earnings period has been a dud for small caps, and that could be a warning for large cap names, which have seen a surprisingly strong quarter with profit growth near 12 percent.
"The large cap multinationals are getting a tailwind from currency and they're getting better growth outside the U.S., and small caps are more domestically focused," said Steven DeSanctis, small- and mid-cap analyst at Jefferies.
In contrast to the double digit gains for S&P 500 company profits, DeSanctis said the small cap S&P 600 was expected to see earnings decline 2.5 percent, a number that could be closer to flat, when counting companies that have already reported.
"I'm thinking the best we're going to do for the quarter is maybe flat," said DeSanctis. According to Thomson Reuters, the profit growth for the large cap S&P 500 for the second quarter is near 12 percent, when including those companies that reported along with estimated results.
Even though the small cap Russell 2000 is up just 4 percent for the year, the index is trading on an earnings multiple of 20 times forward earnings. DeSanctis expects the Russell 2000 to end the year at 1410. The Russell closed Monday at 1414.
"They're hovering very close to our overall target. We got to 1,430 and then they pulled back. I just don't see the upside in small, given the earnings numbers. You're going to need sustained earnings growth because we have a multiple of 20 times. You can see performance tracing earnings growth, but there is no earnings growth," DeSanctis said.
Credit Suisse U.S. equity strategist Lori Calvasina notes that the divide is clear, and small cap companies are also lagging mid caps. Of medium cap companies, 74 percent have beaten earnings forecasts, but just 61 percent of small cap Russell 2000 stocks have beaten.
"We think this is at least partially explained by the more positive impact of a weaker dollar on mid and large caps, which have higher international exposure than small caps," Calvasina wrote. Of small and large cap companies, she said, 70 percent of the companies with high international exposure beat consensus sales expectations, compared to 59 percent of domestically focused companies.
"The only way you get double digit earnings growth for small cap is the economy grows closer to 3 percent [GDP] growth, and we just don't see that," DeSanctis said. He said the small cap names usually beat estimates by three to four percent, but that's not happening this quarter, and it could weigh on the group.
"You think you're out of this earnings recession, and you look at Q2 and small cap has fallen back into an earnings recession. The question is, are they the canary in the coal mine, where their earnings slowed in the last two quarters, relative to large and does large start to face that same thing?" said DeSanctis.
He said earnings growth was in the mid-single digits, compared to about 15 percent for the S&P 500 in the first quarter. Third quarter forecasts are coming in at about 3 percent growth, but they were about 8 percent in June, he said.
Calvasina said reporting season has been challenged for small cap energy in particular, but the results for financials were solid. The companies left to report in small and mid cap this week are largely consumer, dominated by retail, industrials, tech and health care, especially biotech, she noted.
In a recent note, Barclays analysts said they expect earnings growth and fundamentals to improve for small caps, as the year goes on. They have a target of 1440 on the Russell 2000, saying that top line growth should be helped by a recent pickup in capital spending and leverage.
DeSanctis said small cap ETFs last week saw inflows of over $2 billion , reversing outflows in three prior weeks. But he expects to see outflows again based on earnings, and also on possible volatility due to Washington this fall.
Like the broader stock market, small caps could feel the ill effect of any budget battle when Congress returns from its break in September. The debt ceiling also needs to be raised, and it's yet to be seen whether there will be drama around that.
On the other hand, if Congress were to work on tax reform, that could potentially be a positive for small cap companies.
Though the financial sector has posted solid gains this year, it's still trailing six other S&P 500 sectors. At these levels, some analysts and portfolio managers are making the case for getting into the banks and other financial stocks.
The performance of the popular financials exchange-traded fund, the XLF, relative to the S&P 500 recently broken above years-long resistance identified by Ari Wald, head of technical analysis at Oppenheimer. A rounded long-term base of support in the relative relationship boosts Wald's bullish outlook on the sector.
"I think it argues for additional outperformance as that line starts to kick higher. It has also been a very broad-based move; it's been the banks, it's been the brokers, asset managers, security exchanges," Wald said Monday on CNBC's "Power Lunch."
Wald added that the sector has rallied even in the face of falling interest rates, which is generally seen as a negative factor for financial institutions. In a note to clients on Saturday, Wald recommended buying the ETF, which on Monday was trading near 10-year highs, and several individual names like JPMorgan and Citigroup.
"This is very telling. It shows that the strong players have been reluctant to sell, the bad news is likely discounted … and we think this sector is poised to rally," he said.
The broader sector has largely been "dead money for so long, and suddenly it's waking up," said Eddy Elfenbein, portfolio managers at AdvisorShares and editor of the Crossing Wall Street blog. Part of the sector's so-called reawakening is due to its broadly positive stress test results released in June.
"I think that sent a strong message to investors. Also, recently, I think we are going to see some regulatory relief. There has been a lot of talk about this, and now we are actually seeing that go in the process," he said.
Check out which companies are making headlines before the bell:
CVS Health – CVS earned an adjusted $1.33 per share for its latest quarter, two cents a share above estimates. Revenue also topped forecasts, boosted by strong performances in its specialty pharmacy and benefits management businesses.
Time Inc. – The magazine publisher beat estimates by two cents a share, with adjusted quarterly profit of 13 cents per share. Revenue missed forecasts on a drop in ad sales. Time also announced a new cost-cutting initiative aimed at slashing up to $600 million in expenses over the next three to four years.
Norwegian Cruise Line – The cruise line operator earned an adjusted $1.02 per share for the second quarter, five cents a share above estimates. Revenue also beat forecasts. Norwegian said the current booking environment is among the strongest it's seen in recent history.
Wayfair – The online home furnishings retailer reported an adjusted quarterly loss of 26 cents per share, 20 cents a share smaller than analysts had anticipated. Revenue beat forecasts as Wayfair saw a significant jump in the number of active users.
Michael Kors – The luxury goods seller earned 80 cents per share for its latest quarter, well above estimates of 62 cents a share. Revenue beat forecasts, as same-store sales fell 5.9 percent compared to forecasts of a nine percent drop, and Kors also raised its full-year forecast.
Valeant Pharmaceuticals – The drugmaker reported a second quarter loss and cut its 2017 revenue guidance. The company said it is continuing to reduce debt and resolve legacy issues.
ADP — Bill Ackman's Pershing Square said it would nominate Ackman and two others to the board of the payroll processing company. ADP had said that Pershing was previously seeking five seats on the board, and now says it will evaluate the nominees now that it has specific names, although it believes its current board has "the right balance of leadership continuity and fresh perspectives."
CBS – CBS reported adjusted quarterly profit of $1.04, six cents a share above estimates. Revenue also topped forecasts. CEO Les Moonves said the company is positioned for an even better year in 2018, and that the company has had an enthusiastic response to its upcoming fall TV schedule.
Twilio – Twilio lost five cents per share for its latest quarter, smaller than the 11-cent loss that Wall Street analysts were anticipating. The cloud communications company's revenue also beat forecasts, despite the loss of ride-sharing service Uber as a customer.
LendingClub – LendingClub reported an adjusted quarterly loss of one cent per share, matching estimates, while the online lender's revenue beat forecasts. The company also gave upbeat revenue guidance for the current quarter and the full year, with loan originations up from a year ago.
Avis Budget – Avis Budget missed estimates by 25 cents with adjusted quarterly profit of 30 cents per share. The car rental company's revenue fell short of forecasts, as well. The company's full-year earnings outlook also falls largely short of Street projections. Avis Budget is being affected in part because of lower used car prices and higher fleet costs.
Marriott – Marriott came in 11 cents a share ahead of estimates, with adjusted quarterly profit of $1.13 per share. The hotel chain's revenue also above forecasts. Marriott's current-quarter guidance is being impacted by flat North American revenue, but its full-year guidance is still above consensus forecasts.
Tenet Healthcare – Tenet reported a loss of 17 cents per share for its latest quarter, one cent a share wider than anticipated. The hospital operator's revenue fell shy of forecasts. It also cut its full-year guidance, as it weathers the impact of a drop in patient volume.
Citigroup – Citi will pay $130 million to settle a Libor rigging lawsuit, in which Citi and banking rivals were accused of conspiring to manipulate that benchmark interest rate. The bank does not admit wrongdoing in agreeing to the settlement.
Wells Fargo – Wells Fargo is facing yet another controversy, according to the New York Times. The paper said the bank is facing new regulatory scrutiny for allegedly not refunding insurance money owed to customers who paid off car loans early.
Disney is set to report its quarterly earnings Tuesday after the closing bell, and one portfolio manager said it could have far-reaching implications for the market given the media giant's many different properties both in the U.S. and abroad. "This is kind of a bellwether for so much of the U.S. economy," said Eddy Elfenbein, portfolio manager at AdvisorShares, referring to Disney's vast array of assets, which include broadcast, cable, movies and theme parks. "But what I'm going to be looking for is in their cable subsidiaries, [such as] ESPN," Elfenbein said Monday on CNBC's "Trading Nation." ESPN has traditionally proved quite profitable for Disney, Elfenbein said, but has not fared well recently. "They've been bleeding subscribers recently, and that's caused a lot of attention from Wall Street. So, I want to see how those numbers are, and how the ESPN business is shaking out," he said. The stock itself hasn't been doing too well, Elfenbein pointed out. Indeed, Disney shares have declined 5 percent in the last three months and have underperformed the broader market this year. "It's sort of rare to see a pullback like this in Disney. As far as the earnings report, I want to see how the revenues are at the different segments of their business. If they are impressive, and above expectations, then I think Disney is worth buying for investors right now. But, media-wise, I'm not a particular bull on the sector," he said. Analysts largely give Disney a rating of "overweight," with an average price target of $117.38. This implies about 10 percent of upside for the now $106 stock. Shares of Disney closed lower on Monday.
"Business is looking better than ever with business enthusiasm at record levels. Stock Market at an all-time high. That doesn't just happen!"
That was one of President Trump's early-morning Twitter posts late last week.
It was, all things considered, a factually accurate statement. Business is looking better. The stock market is at a high. And, yes, it did not happen by itself.
The question, however, is this: Has anything that has happened at 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue had anything to do with it?
More from The New York Times:Trump Praises the Stock Market at 22,000 That He Said Was a Bubble at 18,000Secrecy and Suspicion Surround Trump's Deregulation TeamsTrump's Stalled Trade Agenda Leaves Industries in the Lurch
Putting aside the administration's inability to successfully pass any meaningful legislation thus far — and that's a lot to put aside — can Mr. Trump fairly take any credit for the market's trajectory? After all, when I and others talk to C.E.O.s and investors, one constant refrain we hear is that they actually expect little to get done on the legislative front.
Where they repeatedly said they were expecting big changes — that will translate into higher profits — was in Mr. Trump's pledge to lower regulatory burdens and costs, something that he could accomplish, in part, through executive orders and the appointment of regulators who are less inclined to enforce the rules aggressively.
Supporters of the president point to his emphatic stance against regulations that restrain businesses, as well as the dozens of executive orders he has signed that try to roll them back. According to my colleagues Julie Hirschfeld Davis and Michael D. Shear, he has "signed 13 bills to wipe out Obama-era regulations using the Congressional Review Act and ordered agency reviews of regulations across the government."
Peter C. Kenny, chief market strategist for Global Markets Advisory Group and independent market strategist at Kenny & Company, wrote on Monday, "It appears as though the Trump administration's focus on what it can control (i.e., rolling back Obama-era regulations) is effectively beginning to bear results in the form of economic resurgence."
But that's not right. Listen to the earnings conference calls of the biggest publicly traded companies over the past several weeks — which are the real reason the stock market has soared — and virtually none of those phone calls attributed higher profits to reduced costs to comply with regulations.
The only time the word "regulation" was even used on Apple's earnings call — during which the company described how it beat analysts' estimates by a wide margin — was in reference to China. The word did not get a mention on Amazon's earnings call, nor was there any reference to Washington at all, despite constant chatter about how antitrust policy should be applied to the retailing behemoth.
Even on Goldman Sachs's earnings call, which included several questions and answers related to regulations, not once did any official suggest that the firm's earnings were a result of lighter regulatory burdens. Indeed, the bank warned several times that it was too early and too difficult to predict exactly how deregulation efforts would affect its various businesses.
Jamie Dimon, chief executive of JPMorgan Chase, famously was so upset on his conference call about the state of Washington and the inability to get anything done, he declared: "We have become one of the most bureaucratic, confusing, litigious societies on the planet."
Of all America's various industries, it is the Wall Street banks that should see the most benefit from deregulatory measures. Already, prosecutors have sought less in fines from the banks than they did under the Obama administration. And Mr. Trump has pledged to repeal — or at least reform — Dodd-Frank, the checks on the banking system imposed in the wake of the most recent financial crisis, but that would require legislation.
"The administration is, at a minimum, telling a one-sided story — it's a bit disingenuous," Charles Campbell, managing director at MKM Partners, said about Mr. Trump and his team's taking credit for the rising stock market. "For the average American who is uninformed, it probably passes" as sounding correct, he lamented.
But Mr. Campbell said it was "a little early" for companies to see direct benefits from deregulation efforts. "This is the first full reporting period, quite honestly," since Mr. Trump took office, he noted.
In industries like finance, Mr. Campbell said, stocks are trading with the expectation that there will be business-friendly changes in the regulatory environment. "It is the anticipation that there will be an effect," he said.
It is very true that Mr. Trump's deregulatory agenda should eventually make its way into the earnings reports of United States companies, but to suggest that it has already happened is a stretch.
The larger issue is, when it does happen, how much can deregulation really help juice the economy?
The answer will not satisfy those who have been clamoring for a change in policy.
According to Douglas Holtz-Eakin, a conservative economist who served in the George W. Bush administration and advised Senator John McCain's 2008 presidential campaign, deregulatory efforts will not do nearly as much as some people assume.
He contends that the "Obama-era regulatory explosion imposed a cumulative $890 billion in additional compliance costs on the private sector." And he adds, "Some have argued that getting rid of the regulations would raise gross domestic product by just exactly that: $890 billion."
But here's the rub: It isn't that simple, in large part because a huge amount of that figure is a transfer in wealth to comply with the regulations. Mr. Holtz-Eakin estimates the real savings of deregulation are more like $225 billion.
"If gradually achieved over 10 years, that translates into an additional 0.1 percentage point in growth," he writes. "While not exactly chump change, it highlights the difficulty in substantially moving the long-term rate of economic growth."
Jim Cramer loves when historical patterns pop up in the stock market, especially ones like the recent concerns about FANG stocks being overvalued and emblematic of the 2000 tech bubble.
"But you know that history doesn't always repeat itself. In fact, there are times when it can lead you very much astray," the" Mad Money" host said.
Take one of the market's most topical technology stocks, Nvidia. Just two years ago, the chipmaker's stock was trading at just six times earnings, a valuation far too low for how rapidly the stock climbed since then.
"Lots of people think NVIDIA's the most outrageously valued stock in the market" today, Cramer said. "It turned out to be the maker of the semiconductors used in gaming, artificial intelligence, machine learning. It turned out to be one of the greatest bargains of all time."
When Jim Cramer was new to the stock business, he read legendary fund manager Peter Lynch's 1989 book, "One Up On Wall Street: How to Use What You Already Know to Make Money in the Market."
The book revolved around a key piece of advice: if investors kept their eyes open to products or experiences they liked, they would have an easier time finding profitable investments.
Lynch wrote that enjoying companies' offerings should lead investors to research those companies and make informed decisions about whether to buy their stocks.
"But a funny thing happened since Lynch penned his seminal work," the "Mad Money" host said. "The homework has, in some cases, actually kept you out of stocks that you might otherwise have owned and made fortunes in."
In recent years, companies like Amazon, Netflix and Tesla have passed Lynch's first test, selling beloved products, while undeniably failing the second, having solid, stable financials.
Amazon, for one, was considered to be overvalued for years. The e-commerce giant made little to no money, relying on financial markets for funds because investors believed in the company.
"But the love for the product and the genius of the man behind it, [founder and CEO] Jeff Bezos, drove the stock to where it is today, one of the greatest runs of all time," Cramer said.
Cramer argued that Netflix's rise was no different. If investors had done their homework on the streaming service, they would have seen that it was a money-losing machine.
"Making things even more difficult, on the recent conference call, CEO Reed Hastings actually championed the notion that negative free cash flow, something I don't like, 'will be an indicator of enormous success,'" Cramer said. "I just don't think that would pass the Lynch test."
Given that Netflix expects to see between $2 billion and $2.5 billion in negative free cash flow, or capital spending that costs more than the company's operating cash flow, this year, the company seems to be on the right track, at least according to Hastings.
Perhaps the most pointed exception to Lynch's investing rule is Tesla. On Monday, the automaker announced plans to raise $1.5 billion in a U.S. bond offering to fund its growth.
The offering comes as Tesla scales up production of its Model 3 sedan, a product already in high demand and beloved by consumers. Cramer said that aces the first part of the "Lynch test."
"But the second part? Whoa! It's almost impossible to tell how much money Tesla makes per car, if anything. Nor is it possible to define the future of the company," Cramer said. "If everything goes right it could be the next Amazon, a tech company that sells cars, just as Amazon's a tech company that's in retail. If it doesn't, then the stock could flame out."
All in all, homework is valuable, but it can sometimes keep investors from chasing some of the market's most lucrative stocks, a mistake Cramer has made himself, he admitted.
"I wish I had an answer for this conundrum. Maybe you just take some real 'Mad Money' and buy one of them: preferably Netflix or Amazon because they're far more proven than Tesla," Cramer said. "No matter. The fact is that some stories flunk the near-term fundamentals even as they triumph over the long term. ... Two of these three have already done so. For all I can tell, the third will, too."
The "selfie generation" could be even more of a needle-mover than you thought, at least according to Allergan Chairman, President and CEO Brent Saunders.
Of the 30 million people in the United States who consider getting aesthetic treatments like Allergan's Botox, only three million people actually follow through with getting the procedures.
But within that three million, "we see two new groups that are starting to emerge: millennials, which only account for maybe 10, 15 percent of the three million, and males, which also probably account for 10, 15 percent,"  Saunders told "Mad Money" host Jim Cramer on Monday.
Both millennials and males are relatively new to the aesthetic application space, but the groups are growing rapidly, the CEO said.
"So, yes, maybe the selfie generation has a lot to do with this," Saunders told Cramer.
Allergan has made a concerted push into the medical aesthetics space, its recent $2.48 billion acquisition of Zeltiq being the biopharmaceutical giant's latest move.
Allergan will add Zeltiq's signature body-contouring technology known as CoolSculpting to its list of aesthetic offerings, which also include Kybella, an injectable double-chin treatment.
Despite rumblings that Allergan's management was disappointed with Kybella's performance, Saunders assured Cramer that the treatment works, it will just take time to develop.
"We are creating a new market – the lower face," Saunders said. "It takes some time. It took us a long time to develop the upper face, several years. CoolSculpting, for fat reduction, it's been around six, seven years. We just hit somewhere around four, five million treatments. We're just hitting our stride. These new markets take a few years to develop. We should be patient. But Kybella works, it delivers exactly as the label indicates, and the injectors are getting comfortable with it."
Jim Cramer loves when historical patterns pop up in the stock market, especially ones like the recent concerns about FANG stocks being overvalued and emblematic of the 2000 tech bubble.
"But you know that history doesn't always repeat itself. In fact, there are times when it can lead you very much astray. For example, if you took your cue from 2000 when it comes to these red-hot tech stocks, the history did lead you astray, because 2017 is a very different story," the "Mad Money" host said.
Cramer brought up a March 2015 story written for CNN Money that argued why, 15 years after the dotcom bubble burst, the tech titans of the day were not "at bubble levels."
While Cramer found the piece to be very rational, not all analysts agreed. Many market-watchers thought history would repeat itself and avoided high-flying tech stocks, missing out on serious gains in the process.
"So, I decided to go back to see how FANG, my acronym for Facebook, Amazon, Netflix and Google, now Alphabet, was doing at that 15th anniversary when the piece was written, because I think it's an excellent illustration of why you shouldn't take these sirens of skepticism too seriously," Cramer said.
In March 2015,  Facebook traded around $81 a share. Cramer said that if investors had looked at the future earnings estimates then, they would have found that the stock traded at just 16 times 2017 earnings estimates, a fairly cheap valuation given that the stock now trades at $172.
"I think those are low-ball numbers, too, but the point is that if you looked at the right metric two years ago, it would've been obvious that Facebook was much cheaper than it seemed," Cramer said. "That's nothing like the Nasdaq peak in 2000."
Amazon traded at $369 in March 2015. Investors who sold their shares missed out on a massive move to $992 as of Monday, but finding the right way to value the e-commerce giant was trickier than it was with Facebook, Cramer said.
"What you need to know is that if you looked at the numbers alone two years ago, you would've missed that Amazon was developing this incredible cloud-based web services business," he said, referring to Amazon Web Services, which analysts say is now worth at least 40 percent of its business. "Hmm, what's 40 percent of Amazon worth right now? How about $395? That's right, the web services business alone is worth more than what the entire company was selling for a couple of years ago."
Netflix, which was trading around $62 a share in March 2015, was a slightly different beast. Its valuation was always based on subscription growth, and back then, some two-thirds of its subscribers were domestic.
Investors did not expect the streaming giant to capture international interest. Now, with over half of Netflix's subscribers buying in from overseas, the company's stock trades at $181.
Finally, Alphabet, which traded at $555 a share back then, has climbed to $945. While the company has been under pressure of late, Cramer said its metrics still held with his theory.
"Given the 2017 numbers we should use, both the estimates and what's in the can, the stock's trading at 16 times earnings. That's before you back out the humongous cash hoard. It's dirt cheap, people," he said.
So while Cramer is still a firm believer of having a diversified portfolio that mixes these high-growth tech names in with more stable investments, he noted that the "eternal pessimists of technology" can often be wrong.
"I'm simply trying to make the point that we need to stop thinking of these high-flying tech stocks as being dangerous landmines that could detonate upon contact," the "Mad Money" host said. "As long as you remember that history doesn't necessarily have to repeat itself, you might want to buy one of these high-octane tech stocks on the next dip. Otherwise, maybe you're missing an opportunity, and this opportunity only gets better when the high-fliers pull back and everyone starts freaking out."
As much as U.S. technology stocks have climbed this year, their Chinese counterparts have surged far more as investors are drawn to the world's second-largest economy.
Among the big Chinese tech stocks traded in the U.S., messaging app Momo, e-commerce site JD.com and its bigger rival Alibaba have each gained nearly 80 percent or more this year, far more than Facebook, which is up 49 percent as the best-performing of the U.S. FANG stocks.
"Tech has been an outperformer this year. Global has been an outperformer this year. Chinese tech stocks combine those two themes," said David Russell, senior manager at online broker E-Trade.
FANG refers to Facebook, Amazon.com, Netflix and Google parent Alphabet, the group of stocks whose dramatic surge has dominated the U.S. stock market's gains. This year, U.S. tech stocks overall remain market leaders, up 23 percent as the best-performing sector in the S&P 500.
However, the MSCI China Information Technology Index has more than doubled that performance — soaring 56 percent this year in terms of Chinese yuan.
"The big takeaway here is China's a rising, affluent economy," Russell said. "We're seeing a complete rise of the consumer based on e-commerce."
Back in the late 1960s and the early 1970s, investors went gaga over 50 large-cap blue chip stocks called the Nifty Fifty. These equities were often described as "one decision" trades that you bought and kept for life.
At their peak, the NIfty Fifty were trading at 42 times earnings — more than twice the S&P 500. Among the storied names were icons of American business like Polaroid, Xerox, Coca-Cola, General Electric, Sears and Texas Instruments. Some of these stocks remain viable businesses today, but since the start of this century, none of these names have been anything but terrible investments.
The Nifty Fifty stands as a historical warning to generations of investors of the heavy price to pay for unbridled, uncritical enthusiasm.
At their peak, the Nifty Fifty comprised almost all the gains of the S&P 500, and if that fact sounds eerily familiar ... that's because today's Nifty Fifty are the 'FAANG' stocks, plus "M." That is, Facebook, Apple, Amazon, Netflix, Google parent Alphabet and Microsoft.
Just like the Nifty Fifty of yore, the "FAANG" stocks are dominant companies of their day. They touch every aspect of our lives — often several times per day. There is no doubt that these are very good businesses that may last for decades.
With a nearly 30-percent gain in 2017, shares of industrial products maker Handy & Harman are outpacing hot stocks like Google-parent Alphabet and Visa. Yet few on Wall Street have ever heard of the $412-million market-cap company, in large part because no sell-side research analysts publish any estimates of its earnings.
That lack of information is a boon to Paul Sonkin, a portfolio manager at Gabelli Funds, whose firm owns shares of Handy & Harman. Sonkin estimates approximately 15 percent of the companies in his portfolio have no sell-side analyst coverage, leaving them more likely to be overlooked.
"What we're looking for is some kind of edge, and if there are fewer analysts covering a stock there's a greater chance that it will be mispriced," he said.
Like Sonkin, other fund managers are increasingly turning to small-cap companies with no sell-side coverage, hoping an industry-wide pullback in analyst research will allow them to buy into more unknown companies before they get on other investors radar.
Top-performing fund managers at Fidelity, Janus Henderson, Hodges Capital and Baron say that the decline in research coverage means that they are seeing more small-cap companies that are mispriced and potentially undervalued, giving firms that have the capacity to conduct their own research an advantage over the long term.
Overall, the number of companies in the small-cap benchmark Russell 2000 that receive no formal attention from Wall Street research firms has jumped 30 percent over the last 3 years, according to a Reuters analysis.
That cutback has left a broader number of small-cap companies including household names Tootsie Roll Industries, Revlon, and Ruby Tuesday—essentially a black box for investors without the time or resources to analyze a company. Investors in index funds that track the Russell 2000, meanwhile, are putting money into firms that few on Wall Street know anything about.
Numerous academic studies have shown that an analyst initiating coverage of a stock pushes share prices higher, in part by improving investor recognition of the company and increasing its liquidity. A study published in Financial Management in 2008 found that stocks that traded for at least one year without research coverage jumped by an average of 4.8 percent once an analyst began tracking the company.
Investors have little way of knowing in advance when a sell-side brokerage firm will initiate coverage of a company, however, adding the risk that it may be a long time before other portfolio managers recognize a company and boost its shares.
Financials stocks are set to surge higher over the next 12 months due to rising dividends and bigger share buybacks, according to Goldman Sachs."We believe 2017 will mark an inflection point in the amount of capital the Fed allows financials firms to return to shareholders. … This is the first year that certain money center banks have been permitted to pay out more than net income," strategist David Kostin wrote in the note to clients Friday. "Accelerating dividend growth should attract equity income investors, who are broadly underweight the financials sector."Goldman's analysts project the bank sector will increase its dividends by 17 percent annually during the next two years. In addition, Kostin noted how the recent positive Federal Reserve stress test results will enable financial companies to increase share buybacks by 45 percent this year.
If the markets hit a downturn, Amazon and Netflix are the most vulnerable of the FAANG stocks, according to Rob Sanderson, managing director at MKM Partners.
Although Sanderson called the FAANG stocks "roaring leaders in a strong market," two could see pullback in the case of a market correction.
"The [stocks] furthest away from earnings tend to be the most volatile, and those are Amazon and Netflix," Sanderson said Monday on CNBC's "Squawk Alley."
He added that Google is the most resilient within the group.
Amazon faced a big earnings miss for their second quarter, with an EPS of only 40 cents per share versus street estimates of $1.42 per share. It did beat revenue expectations, bringing in $37.96 billion.
Netflix missed its EPS estimate by one cent, reporting an EPS of 15 cents per share, and its revenue slightly beat analysts' expectations. However, the company did have a huge beat on subscriber estimates, reporting an added 5.2 million subscribers, blowing away Wall Street's estimates of 3.23 million.
Investors really have to think about potential earnings sometime in the future, and there's not a lot of support for Amazon and Netflix from a near-term valuation perspective, Sanderson said. Between the two, Amazon has the "most tangible long-term story" while Netflix is more controversial and would come down the most if the market hits some volatile times, he said.
The FAANG stocks are up 35 percent year to date as a group. However, the segment has recently seen a pullback.
Paul Singer and some of his fellow hedge fund hotshots may not like it, but ETFs are continuing to rake in investor cash and are on their way to another record-setting year.
In fact, the $3 trillion industry ended July with $273 billion of inflows this year, within just $13 billion of setting a new high with five months still remaining on the calendar, according to State Street Global Advisors, which tracks ETF flows.
Singer, founder of Elliott Management, told clients in a letter last week that exchange-traded funds are "devouring capitalism" as they mute the voices of small investors and mitigate the risk of large investors so long as the funds replicate the indexes they track.
The funds have exploded in recent years as the popularity of passive investing has surged and the track record for active mutual fund managers has been mostly abysmal. ETFs primarily track broad market indexes like the S&P 500 as well as those for bonds and commodities. They don't use high-cost managers who trade in and out of positions.
In short, it's become the preferred way to play the market during a stunning bull run that began in March 2009.
Central banks like the U.S. Federal Reserve have been keeping interest rates low and liquidity flowing since the days of the financial crisis. What's resulted has been the second-longest bull market in history, pushing the S&P 500 to a 271 percent gain, and, this year in particular, market volatility to historical lows.
"Investors are generally following the central bank money," said David Santschi, CEO of TrimTabs Investment Research, which tracks market and economic data. "It's the easiest and cheapest way."
Widely followed hedge fund titan Leon Cooperman said Monday his biggest position is a familiar name.
The head of Omega Advisors told CNBC that his favorite stock now is Google parent Alphabet, which has been a market leader during a huge year for stock stocks.
"The only negative is it's owned by everybody," Cooperman said during an interview. "Who's left to buy it?"
The stock, though, has seen plenty of buyers this year and is up just shy of 20 percent. Alphabet is one component of the red-hot FANG trade that also includes Facebook, Apple and Netflix.
In addition to listing his favorite stock, Cooperman also said the second-largest position in his portfolio is First Data, a financial technology provider that also is having a strong 2017 with a gain of about 28 percent.
One of the hottest stocks in the S&P 500 is in a rare and sudden slump.
Shares of Amazon have fallen more than 8 percent since its earnings miss in the last week of July, the very same week the now-$994 stock rose to an all-time high of $1083.31. That's the biggest pullback since last October, leaving investors with a simple yet somewhat complicated question: do you buy it?
"Right now, most consensus targets for Amazon are about 15 percent to 16 percent higher than what it is trading now, so there is definitely room for upside. And we can't argue with the kind of earnings growth that we are expecting this year and the year after," Erin Gibbs, portfolio manager at S&P Global, said Friday on CNBC's "Trading Nation."
Gibbs' bullish outlook is due in part to the company's execution of its "Prime Day" last month, when it posted sales that handily beat expectations.
"If you are going to pay triple-digit earnings valuations, so clearly this is not a value stock, even if it is trading at a little bit of a discount right now. It is definitely growth, but when we are looking at 130 percent earnings growth for next year ... they're still hitting their targets; we still see this as a safe bet," Gibbs added.
Though in the short-term the stock may suffer, said Gina Sanchez, CEO of Chantico Global, the long-term story still appears positive.
"They definitely have a lot of room to grow. And if you look at the way the economy continues to go, I think that that plays into the hands of Amazon, who has been massively taking share in the retail space," Sanchez said Friday on "Trading Nation."
In the long term, she said part of the stock's fate lies in how some large investments that the company has made will pan out. Amazon announced last month that it was buying Whole Foods for $13.7 billion, marking its largest acquisition ever should the deal close.
In another sign of expansion, CNBC reported in July that the company was making strides in the health-care space with a new, so-called stealth team dedicated to such efforts.
If investors are thinking strictly in the short term, Sanchez said, "you might not be very excited about buying Amazon today, at this price. But if you are willing to sit this through, there is definitely more room to grow in this story."
Bitcoin climbed above $3,400 to trade at all-time highs on Monday as investors gained confidence in the future of the digital currency.
Its price rose nearly 5 percent, to $3,451.86, up almost $600 from Friday's $2,900 levels, according to CoinDesk. Bitcoin has more than tripled this year and has gained 18 percent in August.
"That's what supports the cryptocurrency right now, confidence," said Ronnie Moas, founder of financial research firm Standpoint Research.
"If there's something that shakes people's confidence in crypto then they will sell off. The further we get into this game the less likely you will get something like that," Moas said. He said he's "heavily invested" in digital currencies, and in late July he issued a report predicting bitcoin will reach $5,000 in 2018.
Bitcoin now has a market capitalization of about $56 billion. For comparison, General Motors has a market cap of $51 billion.
Bitcoin one-week performance

Source: CoinDesk

Most enthusiasts attributed the price gain to a relief rally after the relatively smooth split of the digital currency into bitcoin and "bitcoin cash."
The currency split, or "forked," on Aug. 1 after a minority of developers went ahead with their own upgrade proposal to improve transaction speed on the digital currency network. That upgrade, creating bitcoin cash, was incompatible with a more popular proposal called Segregated Witness, which the original bitcoin is set to lock in in the next few days.
"I think a lot of new investors were waiting on the sidelines until after the hard fork" into bitcoin and bitcoin cash, said Benjamin Roberts, co-founder and CEO of Citizen Hex, an ethereum-focused start-up backed by three Canadian venture funds.
"Now that it has happened with a favorable outcome (Bitcoin + Bitcoin Cash > Bitcoin), new fiat money is entering into the space," Roberts said in an email. Fiat currencies include the dollar, the yen and the euro.
Bitcoin traded in yen accounted for nearly 42 percent of trade volume, up from about one-third in the last few days, according to CryptoCompare. About 26 percent of bitcoin traded in dollars, the site showed.
Bitcoin cash swung wildly in its first week from above $700 to below $300. As of Monday morning, the digital currency recovered from a weekend dip to near $200 to trade near $260, according to CoinMarketCap. That's less than one-tenth of the original bitcoin's record-high price.
Another digital currency, ethereum, edged up a quarter of a percent to near $269, according to CoinDesk.






Goldman Sachs economists say the outlook for jobs is even better than they thought, and unemployment could go as low as 3.8 percent next year.
The firm's economists, in a note over the weekend, talked about a labor market "overshoot," with the trend in job growth remaining in the 150,000 to 200,000 range, twice its estimate of what the economy needs to maintain a healthy labor market.
Friday's July employment report showed job growth, at 209,000, well above the consensus 180,000 expected by economists. That follows 231,000 jobs in June, another month in which 200,000-plus growth was unexpected. The unemployment rate fell to 4.3 percent in July, a decline of 0.1 from June.
The economists forecast the strong labor market should put the Federal Reserve on track to raise interest rates once a quarter, even if inflation remains below the Fed's 2 percent target.
Missing in the recovery has been a steady rise in inflation, signs of which are also missing in the labor market, in wage acceleration. The markets have doubted the Fed will be able to raise rates because of the lack of inflation, but Goldman economists disagree.
Looking at such measures as the long-term unemployment rate, job openings and quits, and reports of skill shortages, "the labor market is about as tight as in the full-employment years 2006 and 1989, though not yet as overheated as in 2000. And while the recent hard wage data have mostly disappointed, surveys of wage growth among employers and households signal a wage acceleration to around 3 percent by the end of 2017," they wrote. Wage growth in July was 2.5 percent on an annual basis.
The economists said broader growth measures also look firm, and third-quarter GDP is tracking at about the same as the 2.6 percent reported for the second quarter. However, the rebound in productivity growth is fading. They forecast second quarter was a weak 0.6 percent.
The economy needs to grow at a rate of 1 percent to stabilize the unemployment rate in the short term, a pace below their longer-term potential growth forecast of 1.75 percent, they noted.
"We have made a sizable downward revision to our forecast for the unemployment rate by the end of 2018, 3.8 percent from 4.1 percent previously. Our new forecast is 0.4 pp below the FOMC's median projection as of June and would match the generational trough reached in early 2000," the economists wrote. The last time unemployment dipped below 4 percent was in 2000.
Carl Icahn's bet on an obscure biofuel credit is going south and threatens to leave an energy company he controls with a big unpaid bill.
The wager is remarkable because Icahn's role as a special advisor to President Donald Trump has directly influenced the price of the credits he is betting on. The fact that Icahn's gamble is going bad is due at least in part to his inability to convince the Trump administration to change a policy that disadvantages one of his investments.
Icahn was betting the cost of the biofuel credits would fall, and it did initially. But through Aug. 1, the credits have rallied nearly 200 percent from the February low.
Check out which companies are making headlines before the bell:
Tyson Foods – The food producer earned an adjusted $1.28 per share for its latest quarter, 10 cents A share above estimates. Revenue also exceeded forecasts as the company's beef and pork segments performed well.
Marriott – The hotel chain has struck a joint venture deal with China e-commerce giant Alibaba that allows Alibaba users to book Marriott hotels on Alibaba's site.
Horizon Pharma – The drugmaker reported adjusted quarterly profit of 41 cents per share, well above the 10-cent-a-share consensus estimate. Revenue was also well above forecasts, boosted by a 70 percent jump in sales of Horizon's rare disease medicines.
Rockwell Collins — United Technologies is weighing a bid for the aircraft component maker, according to a Reuters report. United Technologies said it did not comment on rumors or speculation.
UnitedHealth Group – The health insurer has named former GlaxoSmithKline CEO Andrew Witty and Morehouse School of Medicine President Valerie Montgomery Rice to its board of directors.
Berkshire Hathaway – Berkshire reported a 15 percent decline in second-quarter profit, falling below analysts' forecasts. The decline was led by smaller investment gains and insurance underwriting losses.
Deutsche Bank – Deutsche Bank fell out of a newly compiled list of the world's top 15 private banks. The 2016 rankings – put together by wealth management researcher Scorpio Partnership – showed private banking assets at Deutsche Bank were down 28 percent last year, pushing it down five places to number 16 on that list.
Tesla – Tesla lowered the price of its Model X SUV by $3,000 to $79,500, noting improved profit margins on that vehicle. Separately, the electric car maker announced its intention to sell $1.5 billion in a debt offering, in order to bolster its balance sheet while it tries to rapidly scale up production of its Model 3.
General Motors – GM is recalling nearly 800,000 pickup trucks to deal with an issue that could affect power steering. The affected models are 2014 Chevrolet Silverado 1500 and GMC Sierra 1500 trucks.
Apple – Apple will release a version of the Apple watch later this year that can directly make calls on cellular networks, according to a Bloomberg report. Current versions of the watch need to be connected to an iPhone to have cellular capability.
Brighthouse Financial – Brighthouse will begin trading today on the Nasdaq, following the life insurer's spin-off from former parent MetLife. It will also join the S&P 500, replacing AutoNation.
Fresenius Medical Care – Fresenius is buying U.S. home dialysis company NxStage for $2 billion, or $30 per share. That compares to NxStage's Friday closing price of $23.13.
Sprint – The wireless carrier has resumed discussions T-Mobile US about a possible merger, according to a Bloomberg report. Masayoshi Son – the billionaire who leads major Sprint shareholder Softbank – is said to be seeking consolidation to reverse customer losses.
Chemours – The DuPont spin-off was upgraded to "neutral" from "sell" at UBS, which said it is more confident in the chemical maker's growth outlook following its recent quarterly results. UBS raised its price target on the stock to $50 from $36.
Several signs are pointing to soft earnings and economic growth, according to Gina Sanchez, CEO of Chantico Global.  "I'm specifically looking at the divergence between the soft data, like consumer confidence, and the hard data, like retail sales. Consumer confidence was pacing well above retail sales for many months now, and we are starting to see that start to slow and come back to the reality that retail sales numbers never picked up pace," Sanchez said Friday on CNBC's "Trading Nation."  Indeed, the most recent retail sales missed expectations, and other data points such as personal income and auto sales have recently missed expectations.  All of this signals to Sanchez that the economy is in a recovery mode, but that recovery is "likely going to continue to be modest."  "We believe that expectations have, as usual, gotten ahead of reality. We think that we are still in 2 percent growth mode, going through the rest of the year," she said.  Specifically, sectors that could under-deliver toward the end of the year are consumer-related areas such as consumer discretionary. A relatively weak U.S. dollar also adds to Sanchez's less-than-optimistic outlook.  "We see a weak dollar, and that weak dollar is likely to be inflationary. That is going to be a challenge when wage growth has not matched pace with the rest of inflation," she said. The dollar index on Friday logged its biggest daily performance since January, though the greenback is still weak on a year-to-date basis against many foreign currencies.  In the monthly employment situation released Friday, average hourly wages rose in line with expectations, but remained sluggish on an annual basis. Unemployment ticked down to 4.3 percent.  "We think, given the outlook for growth, earnings could under-deliver at the end of the year. That, in combination with what we think is a high [price-to-earnings ratio] relative to all the external risks to [price-to-earnings ratio], could create a situation where investors should be considering consolidating their positions and getting into wait-and-see mode for the end of the year," Sanchez said.
Consider these the dog days of the dog days. Not only is August traditionally a crappy markets month, but it's also when it gets harder to find truly market-moving news.
The stock market just seems to have a mind of its own. So long as hopes remain that Congress will figure out a way to reform the tax code and cut regulations, stocks just keep marching higher.
With all that in mind, here are a few things to keep in mind for the week ahead.
Investors should be prepared for a "nasty" market correction in two months' time as central banks appear set to stick with low interest rates for longer than expected, a former prominent Credit Suisse research head told CNBC on Monday.
"I think earnings are OK, I think the economy is OK but I think interest rates are not going to end up going up that little bit faster than people think… and that will cause a market correction," said Giles Keating, chairman at the Werthstein Institute.
While Keating stressed that this does not necessarily mean the end of Europe's bull market, he did forecast a "nasty correction" in approximately eight weeks' time.
Suitability may be all-important in investing, but the concept can be lost on children, who probably have little to no interest in what stocks are or how to invest, Jim Cramer said.
"Let's be honest. You couldn't explain to a kid what a stock is to save his or her life," the "Mad Money" host said.
Cramer grew up differently. His dad taught him about stocks, giving Cramer the business section of the Philadelphia Bulletin each day so he could look at stocks' closing prices.
"I liked the stock picking process so much I got the whole fifth grade class at Penn Manor involved. We would all pick stocks and keep track of the closing prices for a week to see who could make the most money," the "Mad Money" host said.
But there are ways to learn about stocks even for kids who play with toys, Cramer said. While they may not know what it means to own shares of companies, they know they love their Hasbro Star Wars Lightsabers or their Mattel Barbie dolls.
"I bet you they'd pick Hasbro over Mattel," Cramer added.
Kids also know Disney theme parks, McDonald's Happy Meals, and General Mills' Cheerios. The rougher tykes may even be familiar with Johnson & Johnson's Band-Aids.
"If you want to get your kids into investing, buy a brand name," Cramer said. "Something they can see and hear and tough and even like. Yeah, just own it. The stock won't always work. But think of what you liked when you were little, and remember that you may have a long term winner on your hands."
Jim Cramer says that suitability, or the concept that certain stocks are right for some investors but wrong for others, can last investors a long time once they figure out what is right for them.
But after college, during which the "Mad Money" host does not recommend investing or putting away money at all, "things get less and less suitable," he said.
Once you are in the real world, it is critical to start saving, whether it is through an employer-provided 401(k) plan or a self-run Individual Retirement Account, Cramer said, adding that he prefers the latter because it lets you individually pick stocks.
At this point, investors should start putting together the mix between index funds and individual stocks in their portfolios.
"There's too much risk in individual stocks to just put together a portfolio of them of your own choosing," Cramer said. "So, at a minimum, I am demanding that you put your first $10,000 beyond what you have from your first twenty years into an index fund, the S&P 500 being my favorite."
While some may argue with that strategy, Cramer said that for a person in her 20s, the risk of one bad stock tanking and taking her portfolio down with it is too large. Index fund investments guard against that effect.
After that initial $10,000, Cramer encourages investors to pick stocks while staying diversified and doing their homework after they buy.
"I tell you that you need to buy a stock but then you have to keep up with it," he said. "You no longer need to spend a couple of hours a week studying your stocks. You need to read the conference calls. You can Google articles galore, so many that you'll get sick of the process very quickly."
Whatever makes investors as comfortable as possible with running their own money is the way to go, the "Mad Money" host said.
"That's what I want. Confident, not over-confident," he added.
When you get to your 20s, Cramer said you must consider what you would do in a sell-off and, following that, how much risk you are willing to take while investing.
Key questions include: Can you handle a decline and buy more on the dip? Will you wish you were not exposed to the downfall at all? Can you accept that stocks go down?
"These are crucial questions that only you can answer," Cramer said. "I would like you to take more risk and more individual stocks that have growth characteristics once you have put away that $10,000. That's my preference. But I would hate to see you commit more than 20 percent of your money, your mad money, to individual stocks. That would not be my preference."
In your 30s, Cramer recommends accruing more income by buying stocks that pay dividends and possibly investing in a fund with higher dividends than the S&P 500.
Investments in bonds should only be added to your portfolio in your 40s, the "Mad Money" host said.
"By this time, you should have been able to put enough away that bonds, even lower-earning bonds, will protect some of your invested capital," Cramer said.
When you get to your 60s and beyond, Cramer would not oppose investing up to 50 percent of your money in bonds and taking bonds up 10 percent more each decade.
But if you cannot handle the risk and think the stock market is too unstable for you, the "Mad Money" host stressed deciding for yourself if cashing out might be the better move.
"The bottom line? It's your life, not mine," he said. "So get comfortable with what you can live with. But risk, at least until your middle years, should remain a friend."
Over the years, Jim Cramer found that when it comes to investing, some of the best advisors have been none other than his two teenage daughters.
"We all know that teenagers are incorrigible. The last thing they want to hear about is stocks. They have bigger fish to fry. To which I say, so what? I'm not going to tell them what to buy. I'm going to let them tell me," the "Mad Money" host said.
Cramer started with the stock of Domino's. The "Mad Money" host thought it was a good speculative stock after CEO Patrick Doyle took up reforming the quality of the ingredients.
"But that's not what made this stock a 'Mad Money' crown jewel. Nope, it was the technology behind DPZ," Cramer said, adding that until his kids discovered the Domino's ordering app, they preferred local pizza restaurants to the national chain.
Cramer's daughters, like so many other millennials, hate talking on the phone, especially given the risk of the person on the other end getting their orders wrong or giving them an incorrect estimate for when their food would be delivered.
The Domino's app, along with eliminating the human aspect of ordering and letting you see how close to done your pizza is, also lets you pay online, another plus for the younger audience.
"All of this technology was totally lost on me," Cramer said. "I never minded the phone, was always patient about when the pizza would arrive, never cared about the interchange with the delivery person. I kind of liked it. In short, I was not like the target audience. That's why I always call Domino's a tech company that sells pizza."
Cramer's kids gave him similar insight into the stock of Apple. His youngest daughter wanted a second iPod not because she lost the first, but because she wanted another color.
Both of his daughters are also steadfast members of the Apple ecosystem when it comes to personal computers and iPhones, even though they dislike the plug and earbud changes.
"When my kids come to me and beg me for a Samsung, you know what? You might hear me say some different things about Apple than I currently do," Cramer said.
Since his daughters are not big sports fans, they entertain themselves by watching Netflix. They were on Facebook early, and Instagram soon after. "Google it, Dad," is a household phrase.
Right there are three key components of Cramer's acronym for the top-tier, high-growth technology stocks of Facebook, Amazon, Netflix and Google, now Alphabet: FANG.
"What if the picks themselves aren't any good? What if they are errant?" the "Mad Money" host asked. "OK, that's the cost of learning."
He learned with GoPro and Fitbit, two companies whose stocks have seriously underperformed since their respective initial public offerings despite being huge fads with younger generations.
"You see, that's the beautiful thing about teen investing. You can lose it and no one may end up noticing in the end," Cramer said. "You pull the same kind of thing later in real life, like me, it's got consequences. But the bottom line is that for now you can learn from your teenage children. Trust me. Invest with them. And you won't regret it."
Investing for children can be tricky, but Jim Cramer says that if you do it right, it can leave your loved ones much better off by the time they grow up than if you avoid it altogether.
"Parents, grandparents, listen up. You can give all sorts of things to families that had just had babies. I want you to open up accounts for them. Or at least give them some shares of stock so that from the earliest moment you can start the process of saving that you have to do," the "Mad Money" host said.
Cramer's first suggestion was taking several hundred dollars and buying shares in an index fund like the S&P 500, then pairing that with some kind of total return fund, which provides a wider array of stocks.
The "Mad Money" host acknowledged that some brokers might recommend funds with higher growth, which he said could be a nice addition for infants who have their whole lives in front of them.
"These kinds of funds can really compound over time, meaning that if you let it run, the money can build upon itself," Cramer said.
For investors who are more interested in buying individual stocks for newborns, Cramer suggests picking two — a stock with a dividend that could be increased each year and then reinvested, and a stock with some more growth.
The first kind of stock can be a share of a company such as 3M, Procter & Gamble, Kimberly-Clark or PepsiCo — steady, consumer goods names that provide healthy, growing dividends.
The second should be "something with a little more juice," Cramer said. He recommended the FANG stocks, his acronym for Facebook, Amazon, Netflix and Google, now Alphabet.
Cramer chose Facebook for its high growth and deep bench, Amazon for its powerful, yet still-small presence in the $4 trillion retail market, Netflix for its game-changing mission and Alphabet for its strong balance sheet, stellar advertising platform, innovative staff and self-driving car initiative, Waymo.
The "Mad Money" host said that investors who want to set up an account for a young child or newborn should do so through a 529 Plan, a state-sponsored college savings tool authorized by the Internal Revenue Code.
All 50 states offer college savings plans under the Section 529 of the Internal Revenue Code, and some private colleges and universities sponsor pre-paid tuition plans.
"I think it's one of the better tax breaks around," the "Mad Money" host said.
Cramer added that buying gold and silver can also be great insurance components to any portfolio, since they do next-to-nothing and can sit in a safety deposit box for years.
"The bottom line: when a child is born, think about setting up a [529 Plan] and putting index funds or individual stocks in with the index funds. Or, at least, consisting of an S&P 500 fund and the stocks consisting of a growth vehicle and an income one [where] you let the income compound. A high yield can lead to a doubling by the time the child reaches 10," Cramer said. "Don't put this off. This must be done at the earliest moment to get the most time involved for your brand new loved one. No one has ever regretted this idea."
There used to be a widespread understanding in the stock market that stocks could be here today and gone tomorrow, but Jim Cramer finds that is not the case anymore.
"We've gone well beyond that," the "Mad Money" host said. "Those days are long over, and if you recommend a stock for a trade, even if you say, 'Buy it today for the analyst meeting and sell it tomorrow,' there will always be a YouTube video kicking around that shows you liked the stock but never gave it the 'sell' call."
That is why Cramer wanted to explain the concept of suitability — an idea that suggests certain stocks are right for some investors, but wrong for others.
Cramer first heard about suitability when he started working at Goldman Sachs as a summer intern for the group helping small businesses and individuals.
He had already been buying individual stocks for himself and others for five years before he started at Goldman, even setting up answering machines messages recommending various stocks to buy.
Not long after Cramer got the Goldman position, an employee from the firm contacted him, got the answering machine message, and told Cramer to call him as soon as possible.
"I did, and he asked me if I knew what suitability was. I had no idea. So he introduced me to the concept," Cramer said. "He asked me: Did I ever consider that many people who called me and got my answering machine might not be ready for the stock of the hottest semiconductor company in the land, and that I was recommending it to them one-on-one without any sense of it was right for them?"
Cramer replied that he thought it was obvious stocks came with no guarantees, a "caveat emptor" situation. The executive explained the worth of knowing what an individual investor wants based on what he needs out of a stock and the risks he is willing to take while investing.
That opened the "Mad Money" host's eyes to the importance of risk tolerance. Clothes, cars, devices and houses either come with some level of insurance or can be returned. Stocks cannot.
"You buy a share of Nike and the next day Goldman Sachs downgrades it and the day after Foot Locker says there's been a slowdown in Jordans. You can't go back to your broker and say, 'Hey, chief, you never told me this could happen. I'm down $3 on 2000 shares. I'm out $6,000. I want that six grand. I want it back," Cramer said.
There is no real insurance when it comes to stocks, except for complicated and expensive put options, which give owners the right to sell their shares of a given stock when it hits a particular price, Cramer explained.
These days, all electronic brokers do in the way of protecting investors from risk is give them a form to sign saying they know what they are getting into and accept responsibility.
"That stops here," Cramer said. "Caveat emptor? No, just 'buyer be a-little-more-aware of what you might be committing your hard earned dollars to when you pull the trigger on a buy."
Some bullish options traders on Wall Street are betting Snap's troubled stock might bounce back as early as next week.
There have been some big block buys in the options pit, according to trader Jon Najarian, co-founder of Najarian Family Office and a CNBC contributor. The unusual trading activity — "huge," "massive" buying of August calls — signals that the stock might pop back above $15 sometime this month and maybe as early as next week, Najarian said on CNBC's "Halftime Report" on Friday.
Professional traders are not impressed with the Dow rally, driven by Boeing, Apple and a few banks.
August is typically a down month: The S&P 500 has on average dropped 2.1 percent this month since 2010, according to the analytics tool Kensho. Right on schedule, the August slowdown has emerged.
The issue is whether this will morph into something bigger. Consider the following:
"FAANG" this weekAmazon: down 3.2 percentNetflix: down 2.6 percentFacebook: down 2.2 percentGoogle: down 1.9 percentApple: up 4.1 percent
The other big tech momentum play — semiconductors — has also weakened (NVIDIA is the exception). The S&P Semiconductor ETF (XSD) topped out in June and is about 7 percent off its highs.
Semis this weekCirrus Logic: down 5.3 percentAdvanced Micro Devices: down 4.8 percentMicron Technology: down 3.7 percentSkyworks Solutions: down 2.2 percent
Energy stocks, which were expected to supply a very large part of the earnings gains for Q2 and Q3, have been disappointing. Shares of Apache, Oasis, Concho and Noble Energy are all down notably on earnings.
Energy earnings disappoint(this week)Pioneer Natural Resources: down 17 percentApache: down 12 percentNoble Energy: down 12 percentConcho Resources: down 10 percent
Does the loss of momentum names necessarily mean the rally is over? No. Other sectors may rotate into leadership positions. There is some indication this is happening already. We have seen financials make a modest move recently — the S&P Financial Sector hit a nine-year high today. And industrial names — particularly defense and those with global exposure — remain strong.
Financials at new highs: Morgan Stanley, Lincoln National, PNC, American Express, Hartford Financials, Allstate, Travelers, Progressive, Chubb, Aon.
Industrials at new highs: Rockwell Collins, Deere, Lockheed Martin, Honeywell, Raytheon, Northrup Grumman.
However, so much money is in the big momentum names (FANG, Semis), that you need to be very vigilant. When you are dealing with momentum stocks, a shift in momentum will easily initiate a shift in positioning — in other words, one day, you just get a hell of a lot of people dumping out. This usually occurs at inflection points for stocks that tell short-term investors that a longer-term uptrend is in trouble.
Are we there yet? It's not clear, but it is clear that price momentum is waning.
A different, slightly more troubling, issue is the market response to what can only be described as excellent earnings. Bulls were looking for a further breakout on earnings, but the overall reaction of the market has been, "Meh."
Bulls are arguing that the S&P saw its runup going into earnings season and it is typical to consolidate (move sideways) after such a move. That is the crux of the debate.
Disclosure: NBCUniversal, parent of CNBC, is a minority investor in Kensho.
The strong U.S. jobs numbers don't look sustainable but wages are likely to increase, said Jan Hatzius, chief economist at Goldman Sachs.
Hatzius spoke after the Labor Department said Friday that the U.S. economy added 209,000 jobs in July and the unemployment rate fell to 4.3 percent from 4.4 percent, the lowest since March 2001. The number of employed Americans hit a new high of 153.5 million.
"All of it looks quite solid from the demand side but what's not sustainable is to see these kinds of numbers with the unemployment rate as low as it is, U6 as low as it is," Hatzius said Friday on CNBC's "Squawk on the Street."
"I'm not saying it's going to stop in the next few months but we're not going to be able to sustain that kind of job growth in the long term. I think the trend is probably below (100,000)."
Hatzius said that eventually the U.S. will begin to put enough pressure on the labor market to get more upward pressure on wages and price inflation.
The Federal Reserve has closely watched the Labor Department's monthly report, particularly for wage rises. Such increases have been somewhat muted as President Donald Trump has promised growth closer to 3 percent than the average 1.9 percent so far this year.
"I would say I'm more confident on the wage part of that. The weakness we've seen in 2017 to me really looks more of a blip," Hatzius said.
He said we could see the wage number at around 3 percent by next year. That number currently stands at 2.5 percent on an annualized basis, according to the latest jobs report. He's not as confident on price inflation, though. He said inflation "above 2 in 2018, that's too aggressive. I wouldn't expect that."
Still, the Fed should be on track for one more interest rate hike this year, he said. The central bank has raised short-term rates three times since December.
Watch: Trump tweets 'excellent' jobs report
Wall Street analysts predict Activision Blizzard is the future of media and entertainment as it enters new businesses such as esports, consumer products and advertising. "With its stable of core franchises and a multitude of future growth opportunities, ATVI is building a Disney-type media business for the 21st Century, but with (much) higher operating margin," Jefferies analyst Timothy O'Shea wrote in a note to clients Friday.
"We see large opportunities around eSports, ads, mobile games, full-game downloads, and consumer products. But for 2Q, the big beat was driven by in-game spending, the biggest opportunity of them all."
The video game maker's shares fell more than 3 percent midday Friday a day even after it reported better than expected second-quarter earnings results.  Activision Blizzard has been one of the best-performing stocks in the market with the shares up 77.2 percent year to date through Thursday versus the S&P 500's 10.4 percent return.
O'Shea reaffirmed his buy rating and raised his price target for Activision Blizzard to $78 from $68, representing 22 percent upside from Thursday's close.
The analyst cited how the company sold the first seven teams in its esports Overwatch league for approximately $20 million each. He expects Activision Blizzard will be able to create a "NFL-style" business on the game with "broadcast rights, ads and sponsorships." In addition, O'Shea noted the company has beaten its earnings per share guidance in 90 percent of the last 21 financial quarters. In similar fashion, Baird is bullish on the game maker's future growth markets. "We remain encouraged by the company's extensive portfolio of key franchises, and believe growth opportunities remain as new titles, growing esports offerings, and improving monetization trends continue to generate upside potential," Baird analyst Colin Sebastian wrote in note to clients Thursday. Sebastian reiterated his outperform rating on the company and increased his price forecast to $68 from $60.
Also on Friday, Bank of America Merrill Lynch upgraded the stock to buy from neutral.
The S&P 500 is on pace for its 72nd straight trading session without a gain of 1 percent or more — its longest such streak since early 2007.
The implications of this kind of historical market calm that's been the subject of much debate across Wall Street this year are concerning to some strategists who believe low volatility (while the market grinds to all-time highs) is the so-called calm before the storm.
The last time the S&P posted a gain larger than 1 percent in a single trading session was on April 24, with a gain of 1.08 percent.
This relative market quiet "definitely" concerns Mark Tepper, founder and president at Strategic Wealth Partners.
"The fact that the VIX is near all-time lows, the fact that volatility is so low ... that is really signaling a lot of investor complacency, and that is typically a contrarian indicator. We saw similar levels in the VIX back in 2006, and we all know what happened in 2007," Tepper said Thursday on CNBC's "Trading Nation."
In 2006, the CBOE volatility index vacillated between the low 10's and at one point 23, in mid-June, before quickly falling. The stock market was similarly going stretches of time that year without daily gains and declines greater than 1 percent.
"The market right now seems to be priced for perfection, and it's not pricing in a lot of those big geopolitical risks ... so we are a little bit concerned," Tepper said, adding that despite this concern his firm is indeed overweight equities and will continue such an overweight position in equities for at least another year or so. But he would expect volatility in the market to pick up over the course of the next year and will then reduce exposure at that time.
But, Tepper said, he would expect volatility in the market to pick up over the course of the next year and will then reduce exposure at that time.
In a note to clients last week that was widely speculated to have sparked a midday sell-off, prominent JPMorgan quantitative and derivatives strategist Marko Kolanovic wrote that low volatility ought to give "pause to equity managers."
Furthermore, he recommended that investors hedge their portfolios to prepare for a market decline.
To Matt Maley, equity strategist at Miller Tabak, volatility will likely return to the market, and though he is somewhat concerned with low levels of implied volatility in the VIX, his anxiety is more muted than others.
"Whenever we see a trend take place for an extended period of time, especially a trend that goes against what the historical trend has been for many decades, people like to say, 'Well, everything's changed,'" Maley said Thursday on "Trading Nation."
"We saw it in 1928, when people were talking about how we were going to stay at never-ending high levels. We saw it in the late 1990s, when they said that we were in a new economy and that the tech stocks were going to go up forever. Now we're talking about … ETFs and how that is going to make sure that volatility stays low forever."
But it is more likely than not that volatility will return to the market, Maley said, and investors ought not to be complacent.
"I get very nervous when people say, 'Oh, geez, the volatility is gone. It's going to be gone forever, so everybody just sit back and relax.' It will come back. It always does, and I think it always will."
Blue Apron shares have fallen 37 percent since its IPO, and one trader warns that the stock is a "no touch" ahead of its first earnings report scheduled for Thursday.
The meal-kit delivery kit service went public on June 29 at $10 a share, but since then its shares have plummeted to single digits.
Despite six analysts' buy ratings and only one sell rating, Blue Apron is "another name with a very big short interest, and the options market doesn't like it very much, and the forward price is significantly lower," Mike Khouw of Optimize Advisors said Thursday on CNBC's "Options Action."
The company has its first earnings report since going public before the bell on Thursday, Aug. 10, and the options market is implying about a 16 percent move in either direction.
"I think this stock is a no touch," Khouw said.
Shares of Blue Apron were trading around $6.25 midday Friday.
While GoPro remains popular among a niche of active, adventurous people, CEO Nick Woodman told CNBC's "Squawk Alley" on Friday that the company can still expand and keep a lid on expenses.
The company soared double digits on Friday after the company reported better-than-expected quarterly financial results on Thursday night.
"GoPro is growing," Woodman said. "As we shared in the second quarter, we grew across all of our markets internationally. And we still have significant room to grow internationally. We're seeing great gains there as we localize GoPro's business to these specific regions around the world."
Blue Apron shares have fallen 37 percent since its IPO, and one trader warns that the stock is a "no touch" ahead of its first earnings report scheduled for Thursday.
The meal-kit delivery kit service went public on June 29 at $10 a share, but since then its shares have plummeted to single digits.
Despite six analysts' buy ratings and only one sell rating, Blue Apron is "another name with a very big short interest, and the options market doesn't like it very much, and the forward price is significantly lower," Mike Khouw of Optimize Advisors said Thursday on CNBC's "Options Action."
The company has its first earnings report since going public before the bell on Thursday, Aug. 10, and the options market is implying about a 16 percent move in either direction.
"I think this stock is a no touch," Khouw said.
Shares of Blue Apron were trading around $6.25 midday Friday.
While GoPro remains popular among a niche of active, adventurous people, CEO Nick Woodman told CNBC's "Squawk Alley" on Friday that the company can still expand and keep a lid on expenses.
The company soared double digits on Friday after the company reported better-than-expected quarterly financial results on Thursday night.
"GoPro is growing," Woodman said. "As we shared in the second quarter, we grew across all of our markets internationally. And we still have significant room to grow internationally. We're seeing great gains there as we localize GoPro's business to these specific regions around the world."
Shares of Apple surged to an all-time high on Wednesday after reporting earnings that beat Wall Street's expectations.
The iPhone maker delivered adjusted EPS that came in 10 cents above estimates on revenue of $45.4 billion. The tech giant's iPhone deliveries also came in better than analysts were looking for.
Using hedge fund analytics tool Kensho, CNBC ran a study to see how Apple and its suppliers performed one month after the tech giant delivered a similar earnings beat.
Here's what we found:
Among Apple suppliers, shares of Skyworks Solutions and Nxp Semiconductors were the winners, while Qualcomm was the biggest laggard, according to Kensho.
Here's the full table of Apple suppliers one month after a beat by a similar magnitude:

Source: Kensho
Disclosure: NBCUniversal, parent of CNBC, is a minority investor in Kensho.
Call it the Oprah Winfrey effect.
Shares of Weight Watchers were climbing more than 15 percent in premarket trading Friday, after the New York-based company reported earnings that topped Wall Street expectations and raised its outlook for the full year.
Ever since Winfrey associated herself with the brand back in 2015, Weight Watchers has been going up and up, following years of declines.
"There's no doubt that the Weight Watchers' long-term collaboration with Oprah Winfrey has certainly accelerated the company's progress since October 2015 with high awareness of her success and happiness with the program sparking interest and excitement," CEO Mindy Grossman said on Thursday's earnings conference call.
"I'm personally looking forward to partnering with her as we transform the brand and business."
The diet program's subscribers climbed 20 percent in the second quarter, helping drive sales 12 percent higher, to $342 million, from a year ago.
Earnings came in at 67 cents per share, adjusted, topping analysts' estimates of 51 cents, according to Thomson Reuters. And Weight Watchers now anticipates earnings per share to fall within $1.57 to $1.67 for the full year, "reflecting continued momentum."
Grossman just began leading the company in July, coming over from an 11-year stint at shopping network HSN. On Thursday, she told analysts and investors that more and more of Weight Watchers' customers are viewing the company as a "lifestyle-oriented, more modern and relevant brand."
Notably, Grossman has experience working with other big-name brands Nike, Ralph Lauren and Tommy Hilfiger.
Now Weight Watchers' biggest cheerleader, Winfrey bought a 10 percent stake in the diet company back in 2015, when the stock was trading around $6 apiece. Shares closed Thursday at $33.08.
As of Thursday's close, shares of Weight Watchers have climbed a whopping 189 percent since the start of the year. The stock is up about 51 percent over the past three months.
Some industrial and consumer stocks are among the biggest winners the week after the U.S. reports a solid monthly jobs report, history shows.
Friday's employment report showed the U.S. economy added 209,000 jobs in July, beating expectations of 183,000 and marking a second straight month of plus-200,000 job creation.
When the monthly jobs report comes in above 200,000, Boeing has been the best-performing stock in the Dow Jones industrial average over the next five trading days, according to historical analysis using Kensho, a quantitative analytics tool used by hedge funds.
The study looked at 35 jobs reports since the start of the bull market in March 2009.

Boeing gained an average 0.78 percent and traded positive 71 percent of the time. In contrast, the S&P 500 was little changed, rising an average 0.04 percent and trading positive slightly more than half the time.
The stock is a solid performer already, jumping in July to a record high after reporting solid earnings and guidance. Boeing has surged more than 50 percent this year and accounting for a quarter of the Dow Jones industrial average's more than 11 percent climb in 2017 through Thursday's close, according to Howard Silverblatt, senior index analyst at S&P Dow Jones Indices.
Another industrials stock, United Technologies, climbed 0.29 percent on average, trading positive nearly two-thirds of the time.
Materials stock DuPont was another top performer in the five trading days following a solid jobs report, rising 0.61 percent on average and trading positive 60 percent of the time, Kensho showed.

When looking at S&P 500 industry sectors, consumer staples were by far the best performer, climbing an average 0.29 percent and trading positive two-thirds of the time. Consumer discretionary climbed an average 0.07 percent, trading positive 60 percent of the time.
Consumer discretionary stocks in the Dow were also among the top gainers.
Home Depot climbed an average 0.4 percent and traded positive two-thirds of the time, while McDonald's gained an average 0.36 percent and traded positive 60 percent of the time, according to Kensho.
Bars and restaurants contributed the most to July's jobs report with 53,000 additions, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics.
However, consumer staples Dow stocks Coca-Cola and Wal-Mart didn't show significant outperformance in the study, while industrial giant Caterpillar, which depends more on China's economic growth than that of the U.S., tended to decline slightly.
— CNBC's Jeff Cox contributed to this report.
Disclosure: CNBC's parent NBCUniversal is a minority investor in Kensho.
The stock market "has an awful good gig going," with the economic recovery reaching all corners of the globe and U.S. inflation and interest rates still at historic lows, Leuthold Chief Investment Strategist Jim Paulsen told CNBC on Friday.
"We've got a fully employed economy, rising real wages. We restarted the corporate earnings cycle. We've got strong confidence among business and consumers," he said on "Squawk Box."
"The kick is we can do all of this without aggravating inflation and interest rates," he said. "If that's going to continue, I think the bull market could continue to forever."
The Dow Jones industrial average was coming off its seventh straight record high, a second close above 22,000 and was on track for a positive week ahead of Friday's release of the government's July employment report.
"Ultimately the bull market does continue until we aggravate some inflation, and until we have to raise bond yields and interest rates some more," Paulsen said.
"I think that's going to happen eventually, but it doesn't look like it's going to happen anytime soon. So I think the bull probably continues through the end of this year," he said.
While the Federal Reserve has raised rates twice this year — with  about 50-50 odds of another hike in December ahead of the Friday jobs data — the cost of borrowing money remains at historic lows, which aids the economy and the stock market.
Historic low market volatility is spurring investors to find returns in new places, with some rushing their money into what is sometimes referred to as "the most dangerous trade in the world."
In a research note to clients, David Lafferty, chief market strategist at Natixis Asset Management, explained that super-low volatility has spurred a new sub-industry – "shorting" volatility with a number of exchange-traded funds and derivative products that have a "V" in their tickers.
The CBOE Volatility Index, or VIX, is a key measure of market expectations of a near-term volatility conveyed by S&P 500 stock index option prices. The VIX, widely considered as a measure of fear and uncertainty in the market, closed the day after the French election on May 9 at 9.77, its lowest level since December 1993. The VIX is currently trading at 10.4 and is down 26 percent year-to-date.
The U.S. dollar continued its slide on Thursday against a basket of foreign currencies, trading near 15-month lows after U.S. services sector data missed economists' expectations early in the session.
Currency markets are of particular concern right now to Matt Maley, equity strategist at Miller Tabak, who said in an interview Thursday that he is watching the dollar/euro relationship quite closely.
The euro is the top-weighted currency in the dollar index, and the activity in both currencies has widespread impact on equity and commodity markets. "We have seen a big move in both the dollar and the euro. We are coming to a point here where the euro has become very over-owned and very over-loved, and the dollar has become very under-owned and very over-hated," Maley said Thursday on CNBC's "Trading Nation." The currency, which has declined over 9 percent year to date, has weakened relative to foreign currencies as the likelihood of future interest-rate hikes from the Federal Reserve has fallen, along with the chances of pro-growth policies passing in Washington. Maley pointed to the Daily Sentiment Index, which measures futures traders' sentiment, flashing very bearish sentiment toward the dollar. Maley also says a reversal in the dollar would cause stock market volatility (measures of which are near record lows) to pick up substantially. "We have too many people on one side of the boat," he said. "That is the exact opposite of what we had at the beginning of the year, just before the dollar fell out of bed. I think the risks are that we see a multi-week and even a multi-month rally in the dollar. If that takes place, that is going to cause a pickup of volatility in certain markets." The weaker U.S. dollar has proven beneficial for emerging markets-related equities, such as the EEM exchange-traded fund, which has gained 25 percent year to date. If the dollar sees a reversal and bounces, Maley said, "it could have an impact not only on emerging markets but on our markets, as well."
In spite of Friday's gains, it's been a rough year for the dollar. However, one market watcher says a historically weak greenback could present unique opportunities for Wall Street.
"We're seeing the most synchronized global growth expansion since the crisis. It's not just the U.S. It's Europe. It's China. It's Japan. It's emerging markets. That's what's moving the dollar," Stephen Parker of J.P. Morgan Private Bank said on Thursday on CNBC's "Futures Now."
"That's not a bad thing. That's a good thing because [it means] that more parts of the world are participating in this growth story," Parker added.
Overall, the dollar index, which tracks the greenback's performance versus a basket of other currencies, hasn't been this weak since the period of January to July 1986. However, this comes amid recent signs of life as the dollar posted it's best day since January on Friday and had its first positive week in over a month.
Parker, who is head of thematic equity solutions at the bank, believes that recent factors behind the dollar's pain stem from gains for the euro and the peso, which are two of the biggest movers against the dollar. And, as it stands, both of these currencies represent markets where serious political concern has subsided in recent months.
"As those concerns haven't played out, we're seeing a reversal of some of the overshoot from last year," Parker said.
He added that, for much of the recovery since the financial crisis of 2009, the U.S. has been the main driver. Now, he feels that expansion is widening out to other nations. However, Parker believes investors shouldn't panic if losses for the dollar continue in the coming weeks. This is because it could provide a boost to earnings.
"That's a positive for multinational companies," Parker said, who concluded that investors can find opportunities in the beneficiaries of a weaker dollar, namely Europe and emerging markets.
*Original piece updated to reflect market activity on August 4, 2017
Disclaimer
Shares of Wal-Mart have been on a tear, rising for 11 consecutive sessions — their longest winning streak since the 12-session string that ended in February 1995. Some strategists and analysts see further upside for the stock, which has already climbed 17 percent year to date, as the retailer has made significant efforts to compete with Amazon in the e-commerce space. "There's all this talk about Amazon, and how great Amazon is, but wouldn't it be great to own Amazon at 15 percent of its price? And that's what you're getting with Wal-Mart, because Wal-Mart has taken huge strides in increasing their online presence through acquiring online shopping sites like Jet.com," said Mark Tepper, founder and partner at Strategic Wealth Partners. "They're gearing up to battle Amazon head-on, and whereas Amazon's price advantage in the past was very strong, it's weakening," he added Thursday on CNBC's "Trading Nation." Indeed, Oppenheimer analysts on Wednesday wrote in a note to clients that "it feels as if the battles have only started between WMT and AMZN." Analyst Rupesh Parikh wrote that Wal-Mart's journey as a retailer is "fresher than it's been in years," pointing specifically to strides in e-commerce. Wal-Mart acquired Jet.com last August for $3.3 billion. At the time, it was the largest acquisition of an e-commerce company. "In our view, in acquiring eCommerce operators, WMT is much more focused upon purchasing key, unique capabilities and technologies, rather than upon simply adding sales," Parikh wrote. Some believe the rally is a little overdone. After all, Wal-Mart shares have risen more than 7 percent in the last month alone. On a short-term, technical basis, the $80.87 stock appears overbought, said Miller Tabak equity strategist Matt Maley. "It's getting to the top end of its upward-sloping trend channel. So it might take a little bit of a breather here, but that's OK, it's had a nice run," Maley said Thursday on "Trading Nation." "To be honest with you, it's funny because the entire retail sector on a technical basis looks quite good. I mean, the XRT had made a double-bottom back in June and it started to move up highly, making a couple of higher highs and higher lows. If it could move above its early June lows, above $41.60-ish, that's going to give it real momentum that's going to get the group to move even higher," Maley said, referring to the popular retail exchange-traded fund. A so-called double-bottom is considered a positive sign in technical analysis. Shares of Wal-Mart closed modestly higher Thursday.
Disclosure: Mark Tepper does not personally own shares of Wal-Mart, but his firm does for clients.
Disclaimer

Activision Blizzard has been on a stealth rally this year, soaring nearly 76 percent, and traders are betting on an even bigger rally ahead.
The video game giant is the best performing tech stock in 2017, quietly hitting an all-time high on Thursday.
According to Mark Tepper of Strategic Wealth Partners, the gaming industry is growing at around 16 percent a year, and that has grabbed the attention of investors.
"We'd be owners. Activision is a really intriguing play. The growth opportunity's huge," Tepper said Thursday on CNBC's "Power Lunch."
Tepper added that gaming is "becoming more social, which means people are playing longer and longer, and the profit per user is growing at 6 percent. This particular company, Activision, they've got the leaders in gaming with Call of Duty, Overwatch, Candy Crush. I'm getting the Candy Crush invitations every day on Facebook, so we'd be a buyer."
Matt Maley of Miller Tabak said that while he likes the stock at current levels, he would proceed with caution when looking at the tech sector.
"I like the stock here, and especially if it breaks off from its current level, because it would give it a nice higher high," he explained. "[But] as good as Activision looks, there is a yellow flag in the tech stocks overall because the SOX semiconductor index, which has been a key leading subgroup for the tech stocks, is starting to roll over a bit."

The tech ETF, XLK, is the best-performing sector this year — surging more than 22 percent.
Maley reiterated that investors should be cautious. "This really is a yellow flag. If we see further weakness in the stocks, and we have stocks like Micron continuing to break down, that's going to turn a yellow stock into a red stock, and maybe we'll see a little bit more of a breather in the tech rally," Tabak warned.
Activision posted better-than-expected earnings of $0.55 per share on $1.42 billion in revenue and reported 407 million monthly active users in the second quarter.
Check out which companies are making headlines before the bell:
ADP – Bill Ackman's Pershing Square said it was seeking effective control of the payroll services company through nominations for five board seats at the annual meeting, and is also calling for the replacement of CEO Carlos Rodriguez.
Cigna – The insurer reported adjusted second quarter profit of $2.91 per share, compared to the consensus estimate of $2.48 a share. Revenue also beat forecasts, and Cigna raised its full-year outlook as its membership rolls grow.
WellCare Health – The health insurer mirrored rival Cigna by beating forecasts and raising its full-year outlook. WellCare beat estimates by 28 cents with adjusted quarterly profit of $2.52 per share and saw revenue beat consensus, as well. WellCare's results were helped by higher enrollment in its Medicare and Medicaid offerings.
Ford – Nomura downgraded the automaker's stock to "neutral" from "buy," citing uncertainties surrounding earnings growth in both North America and Europe.
Newell Brands – The maker of Rubbermaid food containers and Sharpie pens matched estimates, with adjusted quarterly profit of 87 cents per share. Revenue exceeded estimates and the company raised its full-year forecast, saying it is performing well in a challenging environment where retailers are consolidating and reducing inventory.
Viacom — The media company reported adjusted quarterly profit of $1.17 per share, 12 cents a share above estimates. Revenue also topped forecasts. The beat comes despite a 2 percent drop in ad revenue.
Potbelly – The sandwich chain fell one cent a share short of estimates, with adjusted quarterly profit of 11 cents per share. Revenue also fell shy of expectations. Potbelly said the overall restaurant environment remains "challenging" and doesn't expect an improvement in industry trends this year.
Eli Lilly – The drugmaker said its experimental migraine drug significantly reduced pain in a late stage study, which included patients who suffered an average of more than five migraine attacks per month. Lilly plans to file a marketing application for the drug during the first half of next year.
GoPro – GoPro reported an adjusted quarterly loss of nine cents per share, smaller than the consensus estimate of a 25 cents per share loss. The high definition camera maker saw revenue come in slightly above forecasts, and the company gave a strong current-quarter outlook amid higher sales and cost controls.
Shake Shack – Shake Shack came in four cents a share ahead of estimates, with adjusted quarterly profit of 20 cents per share. Revenue was ahead of forecasts, as well, however the restaurant chain's comparable-store sales drop of 1.8 percent missed analysts' forecasts for a 0.3 percent gain.
Kraft Heinz – Kraft Heinz reported adjusted quarterly profit of 98 cents per share, three cents a share better than estimates. The food company's revenue was short of consensus forecasts. Sales were impacted by weak North American demand, but the bottom line was helped by expense controls.
Activision Blizzard – Activision earned an adjusted 43 cents per share for its latest quarter, beating the consensus estimate of 30 cents per share. The video game maker's revenue also came in ahead of forecasts, but its full-year guidance falls short of projections.
Weight Watchers – Weight Watchers beat estimates by 15 cents a share, with quarterly profit of 67 cents per share. The weight loss company's revenue was also ahead of forecasts and Weight Watchers raised its full-year outlook, as both subscriber numbers and paid weeks posted double-digit increases.
Etsy – Etsy reported earnings of 10 cents per share for the second quarter, compared to Street forecasts of a loss for the online crafts marketplace. Revenue was slightly above estimates amid an increase in active sellers, and cost cuts helped the bottom line.
Yelp – Yelp surprised the Street – which had been expecting a quarterly loss – with profit of nine cents per share. The review website operator's revenue also beat forecasts. In addition, Yelp announced a $200 million stock buyback, as well as a deal to sell its Eat24 business to GrubHub for $287.5 million in cash.
GrubHub – GrubHub matched estimates with adjusted quarterly profit of 26 cents per share, with the food-delivery company reporting better-than-expected revenue. GrubHub also raised the lower end of its full-year sales guidance, but the shares were pressured in after-hours trading after hitting a record high in the regular trading session Thursday.
Bed Bath & Beyond – The housewares retailer announced it had accelerated a planned realignment of its store management structure, beginning the process in about half of its U.S. stores.
Toyota – The company will take a 5 percent stake in rival automaker Mazda, and the two announced they will jointly build a $1.6 billion U.S. assembly plant. Separately, Toyota raised its full-year profit forecast by 16 percent, based primarily on expectations of a drop in the yen's value.
Royal Bank of Scotland – RBS beat analyst estimates with a first half profit, its first since 2014, and possibly putting the bank on track for its first annual profit since 2007.
Raytheon – The defense contractor won a court victory when a U.S. district court judge in Los Angeles dismissed a $1 billion whistleblower lawsuit that had accused Raytheon of overbilling the U.S. government on a satellite sensor contract.
Reflecting on his renowned 2007 rant where he accused Federal Reserve members of ignoring signs of potential financial collapse, Jim Cramer reluctantly offered some bad news.
"I'm still seeing loans being made that they should intervene on right now, tomorrow, tomorrow morning, this time by reckless lenders in the subprime auto industry, offering paycation, nothing down against vehicles that are rapidly becoming obsolete because of new technology, cars that are losing value just like houses back in 2007. It's not as bad yet, but it will be," the "Mad Money" host said.
But Cramer does not plan to yell about it much on-air anymore, given that the 2008 financial crisis would have happened with or without the rant, he said.
"I've calmed since then," Cramer said. "Ranting didn't get the job done. I failed. But a decade later, I can look myself in the mirror knowing that, unlike so many others, at least I tried."
It is not secret that Jim Cramer loves when companies engineer rational break-ups, and in the case of Wyndham Worldwide, his sentiments were no different.
Wyndham Worldwide CEO Steve Holmes told the "Mad Money" host on Thursday that the split would, indeed, be "great for the business," particularly because Wyndham's hotel and timeshare components had never truly been integrated.
"We were a very large timeshare company, and we had hotel as well, but the timeshare wasn't born from the hotel side of the business. So we had these two businesses that were never really completely connected, and over the last couple of years, we've been able to connect the dots. We call it the blue thread between the business[es]," Holmes said. "We've done things that have allowed us to get to this point, and I think that it's going to be great for the businesses."
The split is set to occur sometime in 2018, and from then on Holmes will cede his duties as CEO and become the executive chairman of both entities.
Holmes' focus moving forward is redirecting the timeshare arm to draw more new customers rather than cycling through its existing owners.
"You need to have new people as owners, allow them to experience timeshare, and then they'll probably buy more," the CEO said. "More than 50 percent of the people end up buying more timeshare. So we need to get that new flow. We had moved more to just the upgrade model, now we're swinging back towards the new owners."
Holmes added that the ultimate goal in the timeshare industry is to have prospective customers seek out opportunities to purchase timeshares.
As it stands, the timeshare business operates by drawing in and teaching people about the product so that they get interested and make a purchase. Given that over 50 percent of owners are satisfied enough with their purchase to buy more, Holmes said the product is not particularly difficult to sell, but to market properly.
"The purchase price is not what it would be to go buy a cup of Starbucks, so you're talking about a $20,000 purchase price. You need to get people really interested and engaged to take that step," Holmes told Cramer.
That said, Wyndham's business is functioning well, seemingly immune to the threat of do-it-yourself listing companies like the up-and-coming (and millennial-loved) Airbnb.
"We're on the ground, feet on the ground, in markets like Denmark and Holland and the U.K., where we provide services to the owner of the home, villa, cottage, and that's a full-service approach," Holmes explained. "That's different than just the listing approach."
Holmes' chief concern about the business was the rate of default among existing timeshare owners.
"We're not happy with it. It's too high now. We need to get that down, and we've been working to get that down," he said. "The FICO scores are good, so we feel good about the customer that's entering, but we're not engaging them enough, quite frankly, and we need to get them more rabid about what they own, and that's on us to make happen and we've got a lot of things that are moving to make that happen."
When President Donald Trump tweeted that "business is looking better than ever," adding that "that just doesn't happen," Jim Cramer took the leader of the free world up on his claim.

"It's worth pondering the question: Is the president right?" the "Mad Money" host said. "The short answer: Yes. At least about the market, he's right. I say that because I've always been of the exact same mindset as the president: it doesn't just happen. It takes a very special set of circumstances to have a market be this strong."
But Cramer values skepticism and acknowledged that stocks are trading at historically pricey levels, giving more bearish investors cause to worry about overvaluation.
To clear the air, the "Mad Money" host decided to look at the Dow Jones Industrial Average's 10 top-performing stocks in 2017 to see if their valuations are justified or overblown.
Cambria Investment Management's Meb Faber believes investors should expect pretty lousy returns in the coming years due to pricey equity valuations.
CNBC's Mike Santoli spoke with Faber, who invests globally using a 'deep' value investing strategy, in an exclusive interview for CNBC PRO 
. Santoli asked the ETF manager for his market outlook.
"A few years ago I said the world doesn't really look the way it should in my mind. And over the last year or two it's really changed. Our thesis has been that the US stock market's expensive," Faber said. "We're thinking low single digit returns for stocks – let's call it 4 percent. We're not as bearish as some, but around 4 percent. So not awful: higher than bonds, not negative yet, but not particularly good. Again, it doesn't mean it has to crash, but that's kind of the bad news."
Faber is the chief investment officer and co-founder of Cambria, which oversees around $850 million in assets. He is also the manager of Cambria's ETFs and separately managed client investments accounts.  The Cambria's Global Value ETF, a fund based on Faber's quantitative screen for cheap international stocks, posted 33 percent return for the 12-month period ending June 30. The S&P 500 is up 14 percent and the MSCI World Index is up around 12 percent so far this year.
The manager also explained why value investors sometimes go astray by focusing solely on dividend yield.
"It's certainly not horrible investment strategy, and it's certainly better than investing in non-dividend paying stocks, but it's not a good investment strategy," Faber said.
Instead, Faber recommended looking at total shareholder capital return, as known as shareholder yield, which includes stock buyback in addition to dividends.
"Dividends plus net buybacks and it's really important to include net buybacks meaning stock that's been issued, because a lot of tech companies or companies that have options issuance will simply issue a ton of stock and buy it back on the other hand to mop it up. So it's the net amount. And you come up with this more holistic version of yield – it gives you a much better perspective of the quality of the company."
See here for the full CNBC PRO report and the interview video.
Cambria Investment Management's Meb Faber shared his views on the market, cryptocurrencies and quantitative investing in an exclusive interview for CNBC PRO with Mike Santoli.
On investor behavior: "Chasing and herding is one of the most time tested terrible things that people do …We remember the 90s dotcom (bubble) and then people getting fascinated with BRICS, all the emerging markets and the mid-2000 commodities. And it's just kind of 'rise and repeat.' We're seeing a lot of that behavior right now with the cryptocurrency space. I don't think our funds, in many cases, are immune to that."
On value investing mistakes: "Dividends and buybacks are the exact same thing. If you ignore taxes and you ignore the valuation of the business dividends and buy backs are literally – Finance 101 – the same thing … It's really important to include net buybacks meaning stock that's been issued, because a lot of tech companies or companies that have options issuance will simply issue a ton of stock and buy it back on the other hand to mop it up."
Faber is the chief investment officer and co-founder of Cambria Investment Management, which oversees around $850 million in assets. He is also the manager of Cambria's ETFs and separately managed client investments accounts. His firm invests in ETFs using quantitative analysis.
The Cambria's Global Value ETF, a fund based on Faber's quantitative screen for cheap international stocks, posted 33 percent return for the 12-month period ending June 30. The S&P 500 is up 14 percent and the MSCI World Index is up around 12 percent so far this year.
He also discusses:
The interview is exclusively for CNBC PRO subscribers.
Apple stock, even trading near a record high, looks far cheaper than the overall stock market.
In fact, by one common metric, if Apple were priced just like the S&P 500 index, it would be trading at $187 from its current $156. If it were valued like a tech stock, it would be priced at $204, or an energy company — a whopping $409.
"Compared to the rest of the market, Apple has a very reasonable valuation," said Paul Hickey, co-founder of Bespoke Investment Group.
That's because the price-to-earnings ratio for Apple is just 17.7. Simply put, that's the multiple you get when dividing the stock price by its earnings per share over the last 12 months. The multiple for the S&P 500 as a whole is just above 21.
For the S&P technology sector, the multiple is 23.1, but that includes stocks like Facebook, which has a multiple of 38.5, and Google parent Alphabet, which trades at 34.2 times trailing earnings. The energy sector has a multiple in the high-40s, and consumer discretionary and staples stocks trade at just about 22 times earnings.
Bespoke compared the P/Es of the major S&P sectors to Apple, and Apple trails most of them, except for financials and telecommunications.

Source: Bespoke Investment Group
"When you get a stock that becomes so big, larger companies are harder to grow than smaller companies so the growth potential for a stock like Apple might be a little more limited than other stocks in the tech sector that are smaller," said Hickey.
Apple stock vaulted higher after earnings Wednesday, briefly touching a new high of $159.75. It was slightly lower Thursday, at $155.82 per share.
Many of the analysts who follow Apple have a price target above $170, with a good number in the $180 range. There are a few above that level, with a high estimate at about $208. The low estimates are around $150 to a low of $140 per share.


Source: Bespoke Investment Group
"After a big surge in Apple, people ask is Apple overvalued? Has it gone too far, too fast? When you make the comparison to other sectors, it's still more cheaply valued. A different question to ask is are some of the utility stocks or consumer good stocks trading too high?" said Hickey. If Apple were priced like a utility, Hickey said it would be trading at $167 per share and a multiple closer to 19.
Apple is a different animal than other tech stocks because of its phone business. "Especially after earlier this year when someone like [investor Warren] Buffet buys into Apple. It's almost a tech company with a dash of consumer goods company involved in it," Hickey said.
The family office of Steven Cohen, the billionaire banned from running a hedge fund in the US, has run into a regulatory roadblock in the UK.
Point72, which manages about $11bn of Mr Cohen's personal fortune, has been told in recent months that it would not receive regulatory approval in the UK by the Financial Conduct Authority, said people with knowledge of the situation.
One of the people added that it was not clear what Point72 was seeking approval for, but regulatory lawyers said the main reason family offices seek FCA authorisation is to accept and manage other investors' money.
Receive 4 weeks of unlimited digital access to the Financial Times for just $1.
Family offices are allowed to trade in the UK without the FCA's blessing, but must be approved to oversee anyone else's money. According to regulatory lawyers, family offices may also need FCA approval in order to implement certain changes to the way a fund is structured.
Mr Cohen has given indications he may be planning to raise money for a hedge fund launch next year. He appeared at the annual hedge fund conference Salt in Las Vegas this year, even though he was not scheduled to speak, and told the New York Times in an interview last year he was "leaning" towards opening to outside investors.
The 61-year-old has been focused on overseeing Point72 since his fund, SAC Capital, was banned by the US Securities and Exchange Commission from managing clients' money after admitting to trading on inside information.
A spokesman for Point72 said Mr Cohen has not yet decided whether he will reopen to manage outside money next year, and declined to comment on the FCA's position.
The notification by the FCA does not represent a formal refusal for regulatory approval. Instead, the regulator seeks to give those applying an indication as to whether or not they will be approved, which means that official rejections are rare. The FCA declined to comment.
Once the SEC lifts its ban on Mr Cohen next year, Point72 would have to again seek authorisation from the FCA before opening to outside money in the UK if Mr Cohen decides to reopen to investors.Point72 opened the London office for its family business early last year and hired Will Tovey, formerly the head of Barclays' equities distribution business in Europe, to run it.
Point72 president Douglas Haynes said the office was launching with seven analysts and portfolio managers, but could grow to as large as 70 to 80 people.
Earlier this year, Point72 hired Drew Gillanders, a merger arbitrageur at Och-Ziff Capital Management, to work in London.
SAC Capital pleaded guilty to insider trading in 2013 and paid a record $1.8bn in fines. Mr Cohen was never personally charged with insider trading but several of his portfolio managers were convicted of the crime and sentenced to prison terms.
Mr Cohen has tried to rehabilitate his image through Point72 by using social media, hosting Smart Woman Securities and setting up a trading academy to train college graduates on becoming analysts for the 1,100-employee family office in Stamford, Connecticut.
In April last year Mr Cohen began laying the groundwork for a return to the hedge fund industry by opening a vehicle called Stamford Harbor Capital, which shares the same management team as Point72 and is located next door.
A spokesman for Stamford Harbor said at the time that while Mr Cohen owned the entity, he would not supervise the fund because of the ban.
More from the Financial Times:Donald Trump backs plan to cut US immigration in halfSupreme Court gives Trump partial travel ban victoryEurozone officials warn on Greece statistics trial 'farce'
Andy Hall, a trader nicknamed the "God" of the oil and energy markets, is closing down his main hedge fund at Astenbeck Capital Management, CNBC has confirmed.
The hedge fund posted large losses in the first half of the year, according to an earlier Bloomberg report. The flagship fund, Astenbeck Master Commodities Fund II, has tanked nearly 30 percent through June, Bloomberg reported, citing a person with knowledge of the matter.
CNBC has reached out to Astenbeck Capital Management for comment.
In July, Hall told investors in a letter that the global crude market had "materially worsened." He said OPEC has little control of the oil markets, and that $50 per barrel is the new normal, according to Bloomberg.
Oil remains mired in a prolonged downturn that has seen crude prices crater from over $100 a barrel in 2014 to about $50 today. OPEC and other oil exporters have tried to drain a glut of oil by cutting their output, but the effort is taking longer than anticipated.
Hall got his nickname for his ability to accurately predict the direction of oil markets. His main claim to fame came in 2008, a year in which he got a $100 million bonus as an oil trader at Citi. That huge payout prompted a backlash, and a year later Citi sold Hall's Philbro trading division to Occidental Petroleum. This isn't the first time he has struggled, either. Two years ago Astenbeck was posting losses after oil prices fell.
Bloomberg reported on Thursday that Hall has resisted bearish sentiment in the oil market this year.
Read the full Bloomberg report here.
Correction: This story has been updated to clarify that Hall is closing only Astenbeck Master Commodities Fund II. A previous version of the story misstated this fact.
The global financial meltdown that led to the Great Recession could have been mitigated if the Federal Reserve had "slashed rates more dramatically" at the time, CNBC's Jim Cramer said, reflecting on his famous 2007 "they know nothing" Fed rant.
Cramer recalled on Thursday, 10 years to the day, that he didn't plan it.
"The way I came out, I was very agitated, and therefore I was made fun of," the "Mad Money" host and former hedge fund manager said on "Squawk on the Street."
It was later revealed in the minutes of the Fed's Aug. 7, 2007, meeting that policymakers had actually laughed at Cramer's attempt to raise a red flag about the developing subprime housing crisis.
But only a couple years later, then-Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner said on CNBC in 2009 that Cramer was right. "We were at the beginning of this great panic."
On Aug 3, 2007, Cramer blasted then-Fed Chair Ben Bernanke and central bankers for their lack of knowledge about the risk that the subprime market posed to the financial system.
Here's part of what Cramer said a decade ago on CNBC:
I have talked to the heads of almost every one of these firms in the last 72 hours and he has no idea what it's like out there. None! And Bill Poole, he has no idea what it's like out there. My people have been in this game for 25 years and they're losing their jobs and these firms are gonna go out of business and it's nuts. They're nuts! They know nothing! This is a different kinda market. And the Fed is asleep. Bill Poole is a shame, he's shameful!.
Cramer criticized Bill Poole who at the time was president of the St. Louis Fed.
At the time, Poole downplayed the risk of the crisis:
My own bet is that the financial market upset is not going to change fundamentally what's going on in the real economy. ... Bank capital is not impaired. So unlike in some past cases, when losses on real estate impaired bank capital and thus affected the lending in areas that had nothing to do with real estate, I don't think that's the case this time.
That is pretty much the opposite of what happened.
Then-Atlanta Fed President Dennis Lockhart, at the Aug. 7, 2007 meeting, actually referred to Cramer's rant in the course of one of his comments — eliciting laughter from his fellow central bankers.
I believe that the correct policy posture is to let the markets work through the changes in risk appetite and pricing that are under way, but the market observations of one of my more strident conversational counterparts—and that is not Jim Cramer [laughter]—are worth sharing.
The Fed had come under criticism for not recognizing the risk facing the economy and the financial system early on, as investors flocked to bonds, gold and currencies as safer alternatives to the poor housing and stock market.
The S&P 500 closed on Oct. 12, 2007, at 1,561 before cratering more than 50 percent to an intraday low of 666.79 on March 6, 2009. Since then, the S&P has climbed about 270 percent to near record highs as of Wednesday's close.
In September 2007, central bankers began incrementally cutting the cost of borrowing money and continued until December 2008, when rates bottomed out at a range of zero to 0.25 percent where they stayed until the Fed hiked rates in December 2015.
In December 2008, hoping to boost the economy, Fed officials also embarked on a series of quantitative easing — or bond-buying — programs, which eventually swelled the Fed's balance sheet to the current $4.5 trillion. Only now is the Fed talking about how to wind that down.
Cramer said on Thursday: "I still felt that if [the Fed] were to slash rates more dramatically that they could have saved things. But instead, they did it very incrementally."
— CNBC's Matthew J. Belvedere contributed to this report.
Activist hedge fund manager Dan Loeb, who's more than doubled the S&P 500's return over the last two decades, is beating the market again this year while most of his big-name peers are struggling.
But the Wall Street titan admitted Thursday his strong performance was partly due to good fortune.Earlier this year the manager bet big on President Donald Trump's pro-growth economic agenda. The prediction turned out to be wrong, but he made money anyway."Better lucky than right. We expected the market to go up, but for different reasons. We thought it would be based on generally positive, growth oriented policies enacted by the [Trump] administration: lower taxes, infrastructure spending, health care reform, etc. None of these things transpired," Loeb said on the Third Point Reinsurance second-quarter earnings call Thursday.  "What has transpired has been global synchronized economic growth and a very accommodative global monetary structure. So I'm happy with the outcome, the reason for it was different from what we anticipated, but we'll take it. While valuations are getting a little more stretched, we're still finding lots of good things to do in the areas of the market we participate in," he added.
Goldman Sachs isn't that bullish on stocks right now, but the firm found one measure that suggests stocks may still be pretty cheap.
The S&P 500 traded Thursday about half a percent below its all-time high set July 27. Its more than 10 percent gain this year into record territory has many analysts worried about whether the stock market is at an unsustainable level.
Indeed, Goldman's Chief U.S. Equity Strategist David Kostin and a team of analysts pointed out in a report Wednesday that the median S&P 500 stock and the index as a whole are near historically high extremes — the 85th to 100th historical percentile — when looking at many valuation measures such as the ratio of enterprise value to sales, forward price to earnings and price to book.
Kostin's official year-end price target for the S&P 500 is 2,400, about 3 percent below Wednesday's close.
Only free cash flow yield is in a far lower historical percentile – 52nd for the entire S&P 500 and 47th for the median stock in the index, the report said.
The "S&P 500 is expensive according to most valuation metrics, but appears attractively valued on free cash flow yield due to reduced capex investment," Kostin said.
Free cash flow yield is a measure of financial performance based on a company's cash flow from operations, minus capital expenditures, divided by the stock's market capitalization. Generally, a higher free cash flow yield is more attractive.
S&P 500 highly valued on all metrics except free cash flow yield

Source: Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research
In another encouraging sign for the stock market, companies appear ready to make capital expenditures again. Many have criticized corporations for artificially boosting stock prices through massive share buyback programs.
After four years of decline, global capital expenditures are expected to grow 5.5 percent this year, S&P Global Ratings said Monday in its fifth annual global corporate capex survey.
In this environment, Kostin said investors can find investment opportunities by looking at an "adjusted free cash flow yield" that incorporates a company's spending on research and development.
The strategy has performed well historically. Goldman said its basket of 50 stocks with the highest trailing 12-month total capex and research and development spending as a share of market cap has climbed 41 percent since the beginning of 2016, versus 25 percent for the S&P 500.
By combining a high adjusted free cash flow yield strategy with a high growth investment ratio strategy, Kostin recommends American Airlines, General Motors, Eli Lilly, NetApp, software design and consulting firm Synopsys, and aerospace defense company Textron.
"These firms are among the cheapest in their sector on adjusted FCF yield (offering value) and have invested the most in growth capex and R&D over the previous three years (offering growth)," Kostin said.
— CNBC's Michael Bloom contributed to this report.
Attention spans may well be shortening, but evidence suggests that staying engaged and focused on the long term still pays. Literally.
Investors are not immune to an epidemic of short-termism. Figures from the World Bank indicate that average holding periods for stocks are four times shorter today than they were in 1980.
Investors are also more risk averse. BlackRock analysis reveals that risk taking in the market is well below previous peaks. And fund flows suggest the post-crisis preference for bonds over stocks has yet to reverse.
These tendencies are no doubt exacerbated by a sustained period of short-term political risks over the past year. But the net result of playing it short and safe is that investors may be compromising their long-term goals.
The Dow Jones industrial average is on a tear – surging past 22,000 on Wednesday propelled by strong earnings, but the oldest index component has been the biggest laggard.
On the road to Dow 22,000, Boeing, McDonald's, UnitedHealth and Apple were the biggest contributors, while IBM, Goldman Sachs and GE dragged down the index.
While the Dow is on its lengthiest winning streak since February, General Electric, which has been in the index the longest, is tracking for its worst year in nearly a decade — as shares tumbled more than 19 percent.
"It's no doubt. [GE] is the dog of the Dow," Boris Schlossberg of BK Asset Management said Wednesday on CNBC's "Trading Nation."

Furthermore, GE's underperformance "has been a bigger kind of breakdown that was consolidating for quite some time," according to Craig Johnson of Piper Jaffray.

Johnson also added that from a technical standpoint: "I wouldn't be selling here. I'd be looking for some sort of a relief rally ... you look at a daily chart to bring it in to say where could this relief rally ultimately run up toward? It would be about $28, maybe $29, is where you could see that relief rally go."
Nevertheless, "GE is going to be here to stay," Schlossberg said. "It sports a 3.75 percent dividend. That alone should really attract a lot of value investors ... I think GE as a long-term buy is probably an excellent position at this point."
From a fundamental perspective, "the whole idea here is if you think GE here has forward growth at 3.75 percent dividend, it's one of the best values around in the market right now," Schlossberg said.
Shares of GE were trading in the $25.50 range at the market open Thursday.
Some recent economic data have proven to be rather meager: wage growth is tepid, auto sales are weak and personal income did not budge month over month in its most recent reading. But according to the latest wide-ranging consumer sentiment survey from Bespoke Investment Group, responses when it came to views on the economy, personal finances and individual companies went quite literally off the charts. "We've been running the survey monthly for three years and this month's rating for many of these indicators were the highest we've seen in three years. So we literally had to adjust the y-axis on some of these charts," Paul Hickey, co-founder of Bespoke, said Wednesday on CNBC's "Trading Nation." "While economic data has been coming in a little bit weaker than expected lately, maybe this forward-looking analysis is telling us there may be a little bit more strength coming up in the next few months, versus what we've seen already," he added. The survey, published this week, sampled 15,000 U.S. consumers and found that sentiment saw a substantial bump from consumers' perception of financial conditions, and was the strongest of any period in the survey's history. In one interesting measure, the report also tries to gauge how consumers feel relative to other people. This most recent reading was the highest in the report's history. "Even if consumers are feeling very confident about their finances, if they also feel like they're falling behind their peers or the rest of the country, they can sometimes be much less confident," Bespoke wrote in its report to clients. When it came to sentiment toward the labor market, the report found that average hours worked have trended stronger from lows seen in the first quarter, and that reading is now in the middle of its three-year range. In another gauge of confidence in the labor market, Bespoke's measure of consumers concerned that they will lose their job fell meaningfully since the beginning of the year. The sole area of weakness reflected in the report's findings was in housing market sentiment. "The only category that was weaker sequentially was Housing, and no category was materially weaker than a year ago. That's pretty remarkable given the volatility in many of our questions' responses, and shows, in our view, a very strong consumer in July," the report read.
The Dow Jones industrial average will reach 24,000 by the end of this year if President Donald Trump and the Republicans who control the House and Senate deliver on corporate tax reform, Wharton School finance professor Jeremy Siegel told CNBC on Thursday.
"I would love to see personal tax reform and lower those personal rates but what I think what is more probable and what I think Congress should attack first is corporate tax reform," Siegel said on "Squawk Box," a day after the Dow closed above 22,000 for the first time ever.
The longtime stock bull predicted on CNBC in February that Dow 22,000 was "on the horizon." The index was trading around 20,504 at the time.
"The market is going up on the Republican agenda. It's not going up on the Trump agenda," Siegel said Thursday. "The only thing about Trump is he's not going to veto the legislation that Congress has. And that's a positive."
Siegel said the "fiasco" with the Senate Republicans' health-care bill makes Congress more determined to get something done with tax reform.
"What they thought is that they're going to get a trillion dollars from the health-care reform. Of course that was pie in the sky," he said.
The White House and some conservative groups are targeting red-state Democrats in hopes of winning support for a tax overhaul, and Senate Democrats have offered to work with Republicans on a bipartisan package.
Trump, along with Republicans in the Senate and House, has called for major tax cuts for businesses and individuals, saying that lower tax rates would drive the economy and grow jobs.
On the fundamentals, Siegel said the Dow could get "another thousand" out of strong earnings alone. "What the stock market cares about is interest rates and earnings. And both of them are doing well."
While the Federal Reserve has raised rates twice this year — with about 50-50 odds of another hike in December — the cost of borrowing money remains at historic lows, which aids the economy and the stock market.
The lower dollar is also helping to drive equities higher, Siegel said. The dollar index against a basket of major currencies rose about 5 percent after the election to mid-December. But since then, it's fallen about 9 percent.
The Dow has gained more than 20 percent since the election as of Wednesday's close; the S&P has risen over 15 percent; and the Nasdaq has climbed more than 22 percent.
As the Dow Jones industrial average crossed 22,000 for the first time ever, one of the index's key counterparts is stalling.
The Dow transports have fallen 10 out of the last 13 sessions and some market watchers have expressed concern that a classic theory is at play that could be hinting at a correction.
The Dow Theory maintains that a divergence between the Dow and the Dow transportation indexes usually signals that a sell-off is on the way. This year, the Dow has rallied more than 11 percent while the transports have actually only risen by 1 percent. What's more, while the Dow continued to hit record highs and climbed 3 percent in the last month, the transports actually tumbled about 4 percent over the same time period.
In other words, the feared divergence is in the works, and the fundamentals and technicals aren't looking strong, says BK Asset Management's Boris Schlossberg.
"The transports chart looks really ugly," the strategist said Wednesday on CNBC's "Power Lunch." "It's about to fill that gap from May, and it doesn't have any support until about 8,800."
"The thing about the transports chart that I think is interesting is the viciousness of the decline, and that could very well be the telling point of how fast the Dow can turn the other way and surprise people going forward."
What's more, Schlossberg believes that the growth in certain groups such as autos and coal has "slowed materially," which could mean that "the second-half growth that a lot of people may be looking for may not be coming, and that could be an excuse for a sell-off. "
But not everyone believes the classic Dow Theory is at play. Craig Johnson, senior technical research analyst at Piper Jaffray, believes that now is too soon to tell if the transports could actually be pointing to a correction.
"When you just look at the bottom panel and you look at the lines, you can see that you get a series of higher highs and higher lows still happening on the transports," said Johnson, also on "Power Lunch." "So just because we've been weaker over the last several sessions, I wouldn't identify this as a warning sign for Dow Theory yet."

If anything, Johnson says he would "stay on the long side" of the market, as he believes there's even more room to run for stocks.
The Dow transports broke a two-day losing streak on Wednesday, while the Dow hit its sixth straight record close.
Shares of Teva Pharmaceutical fell more than 18 percent in morning trading Thursday after the company reported lower-than-expected second-quarter earnings.
Teva missed estimates for both earnings per share and revenue, and interim CEO Yitzhak Peterburg blamed the poor performance on a saturation of the U.S. generic drug market.
"[Teva] experienced … greater competition as a result of an increase in generic drug approvals by the U.S. FDA," Peterburg said in the earnings release. He added that "customer consolidation" hurt sales in the U.S., before saying competition hurt new product launches, some of which were delayed in the recent quarter.
Earnings per share of $1.02 was 4 cents below what analysts surveyed by Reuters expected. Revenue also fell short of analyst forecasts by more than $300 million, coming in at $5.686 billion compared to the expected $5.718 billion.
Peterburg said instability in the Venezuelan bolivar had a material effect, reducing revenue by $183 million compared to the same quarter last year.
On June 28, Peterburg warned that the global health-care industry faces a "huge disruption," saying at the World Economic Forum that he believes "it will affect" the pharmaceutical industry.
Teva Pharmaceutical, headquartered in Israel, calls itself the largest producer of generic medicines. In specialty medicines, Teva has treatment for multiple sclerosis as well as late-stage development programs for other disorders of the central nervous system.
The pharmaceutical company lost its CEO on February 7 when Erez Vigodman resigned suddenly amid reports of a bribery investigation by the Israel Police. The biggest company in Israel, Teva allegedly paid bribes into the hundreds of millions of dollars and falsified documents in order to hide them.
Teva's stock fell more than 14 percent in pre-market, before continuing to decline after the market open. Shares of the company were down nearly 14 percent this year ahead of Thursday's open.

A daily morning look at the financial stories you need to know to start the day.
STOCKS/ECONOMY
-Stock futures are down after the Dow Jones industrials hit and closed over the 22,000 mark for the first time Wednesday. The weekly jobless claims numbers will be in focus this morning along with several key earnings reports.
-The Bank of England has just announced it's holding rates steady, but forecasts two hikes over the next three years.
RUSSIA SANCTIONS
-Now that President Donald Trump has signed the new Russia sanctions bill, Moscow is angrily calling it a "full scale trade war."
Shares of Snap fell again on Wednesday, amid a myriad of market jitters that have mounted since the company's March IPO.
Instagram said on Wednesday that users under 25 spend more than 32 minutes a day on Instagram, demonstrating its success with an age group that Snap also targets. Snap released similar data at the beginning of February, noting that "users younger than 25 visited Snapchat over 20 times and spent over 30 minutes on Snapchat every day on average."
Despite record highs in the broader market, Snap shares have fallen about 43 percent in the past three months, and on Wednesday shares were more than 4 percent lower at one point, hitting an all-time low of $12.52 a share.
The fresh reminder of Instagram's competitive position comes amid a tenuous time for Snap's stock.
It might not seem like Royal Caribbean, AMC Entertainment, General Motors and Apple have much to do with each other, but Jim Cramer begs to differ.
"In fact, though, they have everything to do with each other," the "Mad Money" host said. "They're all about the revolution in how the consumer spends his time, but the analysts and skeptics who abound everywhere just can't seem to get their darned heads around it."
With the experiential economy in full swing, it came as a surprise to Cramer that movie theater giant AMC's earnings pre-announcement was drastically weaker than expected.
Shares of AMC took a nosedive on Wednesday after the company reported a $178 million loss and 4.4 percent decline in the U.S. box office.
While General Motors' quarterly earnings beat Wall Street estimates, the automaker's Tuesday report of a 15 percent drop in sales in July was also unsettling, pushing shares down nearly $1.
Cramer said the only explanation for these "seismic" declines was the rise of the experiential economy.
"People want document-able, record-able experiences," he said. "Unless they can go out and create memories they can share with their friends online, they mostly watch things at home and order delivery instead of driving to restaurants."
The "Mad Money" host pointed to Royal Caribbean's post-earnings conference call with its CEO, Richard Fain. Fain said that instead of spending money on televisions and cars, consumers "seem to be buying memories as never before."
The CEO added that this trend was global, not just U.S.-based. As the chief of a cruise line marketing experiences and memories, he said it played to Royal Caribbean's "sweet spot."
Cramer also nodded to the various social media platforms benefiting from experiential trends. Consumers record their memories via Facebook, Instagram and Alphabet's YouTube. They scroll through and watch their friends' memories on Apple devices, sales of which are booming.
"How do we know this? Because we heard it on the AT&T call. Specifically, in reference to their Time Warner acquisition, management explained that people are watching Time Warner on their handheld — again, widescreen handhelds like the iPhone 7 Plus," Cramer said.
Beyond that, over 30 million people in the United States play video games. Gamers and eSports fanatics are growing in number rapidly, and watch roughly a billion hours of YouTube videos per day.
Paired with the rise of shopping on Amazon, binge-watching Netflix and tuning in to HBO or weekend football games, it is difficult to ignore that the ways people spend time nowadays are shifting in home-bound, tech-savvy ways.
"It's a simple thesis. The create-memories-to-watch thesis coupled with video games and internet programming best watched on the go, but not driving, at home or going to the movies," Cramer said. "And, of course, we're ordering food via Uber and GrubHub."
Note the commonality of FAANG, Cramer's extended acronym for the stocks of Facebook, Amazon, Apple, Netflix and Google (now Alphabet).
All of these tech giants are capitalizing on the changing habits of the general populous, habits that Cramer believes remain misunderstood among some experts on the Street.
"But as long as this shift continues, you can keep owning FAANG. It's only getting more pronounced, as is the 'A,' as time goes on, which means these stocks can all still go higher," the "Mad Money" host said.
Jim Cramer hates days like Wednesday when the stock market seems to reel at ostensible milestones like the Dow Jones average crossing above 22,000.
The "Mad Money" host said that action like that will likely draw more erroneous comparisons to the dotcom bubble of 2000, which he maintained is far from what we are seeing in 2017.
"As I've said repeatedly, 2017 is nothing like 2000. The tech stocks that are doing fabulously here belong to companies like Apple that have huge cash hoards and are insanely profitable. In many cases, their stocks are downright cheap," Cramer said. "You've got this deadly combination of stocks coming down and commentators 'reverse' cheerleading for stocks, accentuated by the Dow 22,000 nonsense that says they can say, 'Hey, you know what? This is toppy action,'" Cramer said.
But Apple's fundamentals are strong, as the company showed in its third-quarter report. The stay-at-home economy is booming. So Cramer reminded investors of the market moves to which they should be paying attention amid all of the noise.
The Dow jumped across the 22,000 marker for the first time Wednesday, and a wave of earnings news Thursday could keep it going.
The Dow crossed 22,000 107 trading days after it crossed 21,000, on March 1. Since then, Boeing has contributed more than 370 points of its gain; McDonald's 180 points and UnitedHealth, 170 points.
Dozens of companies are expected to release earnings Thursday morning in one of the last big waves of the earnings season. They include Allergan, Duke Energy, Hyatt, Church and Dwight, Noble Energy, Teva, Clorox, Yum Brands, Aetna, Sotheby's, Kellogg, AmerisourceBergen, Apache, and Chesapeake Energy. After the bell, reports are expected from Kraft Heinz, Viacom, Activision Blizzard, and Shake Shack.
With the earnings season coming to an end, however, some analysts are looking to the void after Labor Day when the market could be vulnerable to the seasonality of late summer. They are also keeping an eye on the Nasdaq, which slumped after an initial pop on the opening, but then closed the day unchanged. Some technical analysts say the Nasdaq shows signs of reaching a top.
The earnings season has been a good catalyst, even for market skeptics. According to Thomson Reuters, earnings are now expected to be up about 11.4 percent, compared to expectations of 8 percent on July 1. Seventy-two percent of companies have beaten earnings estimates.
David Bianco, chief investment strategist Americas at Deutsche Asset Management, said the market could see a pullback in early September, but it would be helped if Congress were to show signs of working on tax cuts.
"Without the tax cut, there's not much upside," Bianco said. He said low interest rates are helping with the market's multiples, but not doing much for the financial sector, which does better with rising rates.
"I sit there and keep watching the actual fundamentals, meaning the earnings, and at the moment it's hard to get too negative. Apple was braced for disappointment. That's why you get a pop out of it," said Bill Stone, chief investment officer at PNC Wealth Management.
Apple Computer zoomed to a new high Wednesday and closed up 4.7 percent at $157.14. The stock held on to most of its gains even when tech waffled. The Nasdaq ended the day up less than 1 point at 6,362. The S&P 500 was up 1 at 2,477. The Dow, boosted by Apple, hit an all-time closing high of 22,016 and was up 52 points.
The market has a few economic reports to consider Thursday but is already anticipating Friday's jobs report, expected to show 183,000 nonfarm payrolls and a 4.3 percent unemployment rate, according to Thomson Reuters. Average earnings are expected to rise by 0.3 percent.
Jobs data has been strong, but some recent data has been spotty. "It's not enough to change the picture yet. ISM manufacturing was okay, and I know the sentiment [data] is running a little bit hotter than the real economy [data]," Stone said.
"We generally have seen a pretty decent pickup in things. I don't think this is any sort of signal," Stone said. "Vehicle sales were a little shy of expectations. ... Chinese PMI came in better. Global stuff looks a bit better. At least the U.S. economy has a bit of a tail wind, rather than fighting a headwind all the time."
Thursday's data includes weekly jobless claims at 8:30 a.m. and ISM nonmanufacturing at 10 a.m. Factory orders are also released at 10 a.m.
With everybody's noses tucked into their smartphones, Groupon CEO Rich Williams said that even his discount-centered online marketplace is rapidly shifting to mobile.
"The transition to mobile for our business has been profound, and now we're close to two-thirds mobile in terms of transactions," Williams told "Mad Money" host Jim Cramer on Wednesday.
After delivering a strong quarterly earnings report in which billings growth, a key metric for businesses like Williams', accelerated to 14 percent from 7 percent last quarter, the CEO said Groupon was eager to build on the foundation it has formed since its 2011 initial public offering.
With several new initiatives underway including Groupon Plus, Williams said the company's main objective is to do away with traditional paper vouchers as payments become increasingly digital.
"You talk about the old paper voucher experience. The time for that has come and gone," Williams said. "And the Groupon Plus product, using the credit card networks and partnering with the credit card networks, really allows us to put savings on people's payment mechanisms, which at its very core keeps people from having to change their behavior."
Williams touted the "seamless savings experience" as one that should draw even more phone-savvy customers to Groupon's business and bolster the company's burgeoning mobile segment.
"We really need to make Groupon voucher-less and leverage all that mobile capacity that we've built over the last couple of years," the CEO said.
Groupon is also carving a place for itself in the bookings business, another area of the market undergoing a massive shift online.
Recently, Groupon announced a new program called Beauty Now, which will help what Williams said was an under-served area of the beauty space.
The application will help salons toss their paper-and-pencil appointment calendars in favor of online bookings, streamlining the often dreaded process of scheduling that plagued the restaurant business for years.
"We're bringing that product to market with both partners and our own technology solutions, and we're starting to unlock those businesses for that online, really seamless interaction where a customer can just pick a service, book a time and walk in and walk out," Williams told Cramer. "That's where the local experience should be, and we're excited about Beauty Now and booking in general on our platform as a way to help bring it there."
Check out which companies are making headlines after the bell on Wednesday:
Tesla shares gained 6 percent after the company reported a narrower-than expected loss. The electric automaker also reported strong revenue amid deliveries of its Model S sedans and Model X SUVs.
Shares of Fitbit gained as much as 8 percent after the company posted better-than-expected quarterly results. Co-founder and CEO James Park said Fitbit saw strong sales amid unexpectedly strong demand, leading to a reduction in inventory.
Square ticked 1 percent higher after the company reported results that bested analyst expectations. The Jack Dorsey-led company posted a loss of 4 cents per share on $552 million in revenue. Wall Street had expected a loss per share of 5 cents on revenue of $536.3 million, according to Thomson Reuters consensus estimates.
Shares of AIG edged higher after the company reported earnings per share above analyst expectations. The company posted earnings per share of $1.53, easily besting a Thomson Reuters consensus estimate for about $1.20 a share.
Cheesecake Factory shares fell 7 percent after the company reported a decline in comparable restaurant sales, outweighing earnings and revenue that were roughly in-line with expectations. The company said same-restaurant sales declined 0.5 percent during the period.
In June, Cheesecake Factory updated its outlook to reflect volatility in sales trends, saying comparable restaurant sales would likely decline.
— CNBC's Robert Ferris, Abigail Summerville and Rachel Cao contributed to this report.
Tesla is not considering raising more equity at this point, CEO Elon Musk said Wednesday
"We are not at this point considering an equity raise, we are thinking about debt," Musk said on the company's second-quarter earnings call. "But we are not thinking about an equity raise."
Some analysts have expected Tesla to return to markets again at some point in the not-so-distant future, in order to raise more funds to accomplish a whole list of objectives: ramping up vehicle production, building massive planned factories, growing its solar and battery business, and building out service and charging infrastructure.
Tesla is still burning through huge amounts of cash. Negative free cash flow in the second quarter set a record of $1.16 billion, roughly double what the company spent in the previous quarter.
The company has returned to markets for equity several times since its IPO in 2010. Analysts have expressed concerns over the extent to which further offerings might dilute the cash-hungry car maker's shares.
Investors however, seem undeterred. Tesla shares have risen more than 50 percent since the beginning of 2017. The stock was up almost 8 percent in after-hours trading, after the company delivered better than expected second-quarter earnings.
CFRA analyst Efraim Levy said in a note sent to CNBC that "while cash increased to $3 billion at quarter end, we think that is timing related and that second half spending will be an above consensus $2 billion, and could likely necessitate a capital raise in 2018."
Jim Cramer hates days like Wednesday when the stock market seems to reel at ostensible milestones like the Dow Jones average crossing above 22,000.
"I found the celebration particularly disturbing because the last thousand Dow points were really the work of a handful of stocks — actually, just four of them: Boeing, McDonald's, UnitedHealth and Apple," the "Mad Money" host said. "In other words, the strength in the Dow isn't much of a tell for the broader market."
The Dow surged towards this arbitrary mark just as a large fund began selling its positions in a slew of Nasdaq stocks, otherwise known on Wall Street as a "sell program," Cramer said.
While that was not an unusual move, it sent money flowing out of technology and into arguably less exciting industrial, food and manufacturing names, the likes of McDonald's and 3M.
However, the rotation also brought about the demise of many Apple-related stocks like Skyworks Solutions and Cirrus Logic, which Cramer said should have been higher following Apple's earnings beat on Tuesday.
The "Mad Money" host said that action like this will likely draw more erroneous comparisons to the dotcom bubble of 2000, which he maintained is nothing like what we are seeing in 2017.
"You've got this  deadly combination of stocks coming down and commentators 'reverse' cheerleading for stocks, accentuated by the Dow 22,000 nonsense that says they can say, 'Hey, you know what? This is toppy action,'" Cramer said. "Yes, all of this seems to occur around these round numbers and it's a real mind game that gets played out to your disadvantage unless you've got some cash to do some buying."
But Apple's fundamentals are strong, as the company showed in its third-quarter report. The stay-at-home economy is booming.
The one factor in question is the state of the overall economy, which seems mixed: strong housing market, but not enough homes for sales; weak autos market, but too many cars for sale; weak retail sales, save for Apple and Amazon; strong construction, aerospace and manufacturing; very weak oil and gas; strong fast food sales; weak eat-in restaurant sales.
"All of these add up to a mixed-to-positive picture, oddly mirrored by the stocks in the Dow that have taken us from 21,000 to 22,000, namely Boeing, which is responsible for 387 Dow points, McDonald's, 175 points, UnitedHealth, 170, and Apple, 135," Cramer said.
He added that what investors should want from a rally is a wider surge led by the financials and the transports, not a narrow push higher led by four — albeit strong — stocks.
"Sure, there's a round number curse, has been for 21 of these crossed thresholds that I've seen in my lifetime. What matters, though, is that there are plenty of companies out there that saw their stocks get laid low by these sell programs, and when they get taken down like that, you're always going to hear the sirens of panic telling you to sell everything," Cramer said. "In reality, it's more likely to be the sound of opportunity knocking. You just have to have some cash ready to buy the dip in a responsible way."
The Chicago Board Options Exchange, the largest U.S. options exchange, is planning to launch its own bitcoin derivatives trading products by early next year.
Pending review from the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission, the CBOE Futures Exchange (CFE) plans to offer cash-settled bitcoin futures in the fourth quarter of this year or sometime in early 2018, according to a Tuesday announcement.
The CFTC told CNBC in a statement that, "to date, the Commission has not received a filing for a bitcoin futures contract from the CFE."
Designated contract markets like CFE do not necessarily need prior approval from the CFTC in order to list a product for trading, according to the commission's website. Rather, those designated markets can list trading products by filing a self-certification with the commission one business day before the initial listing.
"We've really come to the conclusion recently that cryptocurrencies are here to stay," John Deters, chief strategy officer of CBOE parent CBOE Holdings, told CNBC in a phone interview.
Deters said the bitcoin futures, once reviewed, will be available to both institutional and retail investors.
The news was part of a bigger announcement Tuesday that CBOE Holdings and Gemini Trust, the digital currency exchange founded by brothers Cameron and Tyler Winklevoss, have entered a multiyear exclusive global licensing agreement allowing CBOE and its affiliates to use Gemini's market data in creating bitcoin derivatives and indexes.1