
"The Board believes that separating the roles of Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board is the most appropriate structure at this time," according to the filing. "Having an independent Chairman of the Board is a means to ensure that Mr. Munoz is able to more exclusively focus on his role as Chief Executive Officer."
The company also revealed Friday that a new 2017 compensation program for Munoz, along with that of other executives, will be more closely tied to improved customer satisfaction. United said it wants "directly and meaningfully progress in improving the customer experience."
 United CEO Oscar Munoz: No one has been fired over passenger incident
As part of Friday's disclosure, United also released its annual compensation figures for its top executives. Munoz received a total of $18.7 million, including $6.8 million related to replacing his equity stake that he held when he was president of railway CSX.
United declined to comment.
The changes come on the heels of a public relations disaster in which a passenger was dragged, bloodied and screaming, off an aircraft after he refused to give up his seat for commuting crew members.
The company's first response, attributed to Munoz, did not go over well. He issued a statement that apologized only for "having to re-accommodate ... customers."
A second statement called the victim, Dr. David Dao "disruptive and belligerent." And finally a third statement from Munoz reversed course, decrying the situation and calling it a "truly horrific event," and offered a direct apology to Dao.
Dao's lawyers have said he plans to file a lawsuit.
Munoz took the top spot at United in 2015 during trying times for the company. He was hired as CEO from outside the company after its former chief, Jeff Smisek, was forced to resign due to a scandal involving the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey.
Shortly after he took the reins, Munoz suffered a heart attack and underwent a heart transplant, which kept him out of the office for two months.
Robert Milton has been chairman since 2016, and will remain in that position.
In a statement, Exxon said "we understand" the decision by the Treasury Department. Exxon explained that its application for a license was aimed at meeting the company's "contractual obligations" in Russia, where competitors are allowed to drill under European sanctions.
There are powerful reasons why Exxon would want to get back into business with Rosneft: Their agreement to form a joint venture, signed in 2011, allowed Exxon to conduct offshore exploration in the Black Sea and the Kara Sea in Siberia.
The undeveloped oil fields are thought to be the most promising in the Russian Arctic, according to S&P Global Platts.
In 2012, the two firms agreed to jointly develop more oil reserves in Siberia and establish a research center in the Arctic.
Plans to build a large natural gas plant near Vladivostock in eastern Russia followed in 2013.
The deepening relationship was put on hold, however, after the United States, European Union and other Western countries imposed sanctions on Russia in 2014 over its role in the crisis in Ukraine.
Exxon, which has been operating in Russia for more than 20 years, was allowed to finish some of its projects. But then the drilling stopped.
A lot has changed since then. The Russian economy has turned the corner, emerging from a painful recession in the final quarter of 2016.
Oil prices have climbed back above $50 per barrel.
 Russia could soon control a U.S. oil company
The Trump administration is under intense scrutiny over its ties to Moscow. The fact that the current secretary of state, Rex Tillerson, spearheaded the Rosneft deal while CEO of Exxon, has drawn even more attention to the waiver request.
Tillerson has recused himself from all government matters involving Exxon. He also sold all his stock in the firm, and is placing the shares he would have received over the next decade into an independently managed trust.
But a political storm started brewing earlier this week when the Wall Street Journal first reported that Exxon was seeking a waiver.
Sen. John McCain, a Republican, asked "Are they crazy?" when news of the waiver application broke. McCain is a leading critic of Russian President Vladimir Putin.
Are they crazy? @WSJ: "Exxon Seeks U.S. Waiver to Resume #Russia Oil Venture" https://t.co/CHKS3sjOa8

Rep. Adam Schiff, the top Democrat on the House Intel Committee, said that the waiver should be denied.
"The Treasury Department should reject any waiver from sanctions which would allow Exxon Mobile or any other company to resume business with prohibited Russian entities," he said in a statement.
"I was very surprised Exxon did this because it would be bad publicity. The secretary of state was only on the job for two months and they already tried to get behind the sanctions," said Fadel Gheit, managing director of Oppenheimer & Co.'s oil and gas research division.
Still, the financial incentives for Exxon are powerful when it comes to Russia.
"Exxon is a big company. It's very hard for anything to move the needle," said Brian Youngberg, senior energy analyst at Edward Jones. "Russia could potentially be that, years out. It potentially could be very lucrative."
In March 2016, Tillerson said that Exxon was "very anxious to get back to work there."
His successor echoed that hope earlier this year.
"In Russia, we're there for the long term," CEO Darren Woods said in a February interview with Forbes.
--Ivana Kottasova and Julia Horowitz also contributed to this report.
The stock was the worst performer in the S&P 500 on Friday.
CEO Margo Georgiadis, who left her job as president of Google's Americas division in January to take over at Mattel, said in the earnings release that the results were worse than expected due to "the retail inventory overhang" after the holidays.
In other words, parents didn't buy their kids more new toys after splurging on them in December. But Mattel has been struggling for some time now.
That's one of the reasons that Georgiadis succeeded Christopher Sinclair as CEO, in the first place. (Sinclair is now executive chairman.)
 It was a Blue Christmas for Mattel
Simply put, Mattel doesn't have the toys that kids want. Barbie sales plunged 13%. American Girl sales were down 12%. And the company's Construction and Arts & Crafts unit, which includes Lego competitor Mega Bloks, plummeted 38%.
And it's not just a matter of children abandoning traditional dolls, action figures and board games in favor of smartphones, tablets, video games and other technology.
Mattel rival Hasbro (HAS), which has licenses tied to Disney's (DIS) Star Wars franchise, and also recently took over the Disney Princess line of toys from Mattel, has been on fire lately.
Shares of Hasbro are up nearly 25% so far in 2017 and more than 75% over the past three years. Mattel's stock has plunged nearly 20% already in 2017 and is down more than 40% since early 2014.
Hasbro's stock even rose slightly Friday, a sign Wall Street believes Mattel's problems are company specific and not a broader indicator of weak consumer spending overall.
 Let it go? No way! Hasbro soars thanks to Frozen
Hasbro will report its latest results before the market opens Monday. Wall Street is expecting that sales and earnings were flat in the first quarter, which is typically not a big one for toy companies.
So will Georgiadis, who in addition to Google has also worked for Groupon (GRPN), credit card company Discover (DFS) and consulting company McKinsey & Company, be able to turn Mattel around? She is a veteran exec, but lacks toy industry experience.
She noted in the earnings release that sales in China and other parts of Asia were strong. She also expressed hope that toys tied to another upcoming Disney movie -- Pixar's Cars 3 -- will help boost sales in the coming quarters for its Hot Wheels brand.
But the pressure is on Georgiadis to quickly prove to kids, parents and investors that Mattel will be able to revitalize some of its classic brands like Barbie and Fisher-Price and also launch new hit toys as well.
Otherwise, the stock will continue to languish in Wall Street's equivalent of the Island of Misfit Toys.
Citigroup analysts have described it as a "nightmare scenario" for investors.
Le Pen wants to take France out of the euro and hold a referendum on the country's membership in the European Union. She is also opposed to new free trade deals.
Melenchon, who has been endorsed by the French Communist Party, has also threatened to drop the common currency unless Europe agrees key demands. He also wants to take France out of NATO, bring energy companies under state control and substantially raise taxes on the rich.
"A Le Pen vs. Melenchon final would likely have far-reaching consequences for the country, as well as Europe at large," wrote analysts at Citigroup.
 Why many Europeans want their money back
Investors are most worried about the euro. The currency, used by 19 EU countries, is the most visible symbol of the region's experiment with economic integration since the end of World War II.
France has long been a pillar of support for the currency, and the euro's continued survival would be in doubt if France were to abandon it.
Diego Iscaro, an economist at IHS Markit, said that the impact of such a scenario on the French and European economies "would be difficult to overestimate."

Stock markets have so far mostly remained calm in the face of this existential risk. But there are signs of rising anxiety: The difference in yields on French and German government bonds has widened in recent weeks, suggesting that investors see French debt as an increasingly risky bet.
Still, a runoff between Le Pen and Melenchon is far from guaranteed.
The centrist candidate Emmanuel Macron still sits atop most polls, and the conservative Francois Fillon remains within striking distance. Both back the euro.
There are also structural factors that would restrain a President Le Pen or a President Melenchon.
In France, the heavy lifting in government is done by the prime minister. And the prime minister comes from the party that holds the majority in parliament. No matter who's president, they won't be able to move controversial proposals through the government if their party lacks support in the parliament.
But GM isn't changing tack. The automaker told CNNMoney Friday it stands by its statement on Wednesday, saying Venezuelan authorities had seized its car assembly plant in the country.
GM (GM) shut down operations there because of the alleged illegal seizure, putting 2,678 workers out of work.
Venezuela said it took the action to resolve a long-running dispute involving GM going back to 2000. But officials want the plant to continue production while GM's assets in Venezuela are frozen.
What's unclear is how the plant could forge ahead with production given that GM says it has ceased operations.
 Venezuela's latest corporate target: Spain's Telefonica
The back and forth comes as Venezuela is investigating another foreign firm, phone service provider Movistar, a subsidiary of Spain's Telefonica. Authorities claim Movistar is supporting opposition leaders protesting against President Nicolas Maduro.
Both Movistar and Telefonica haven't responded to requests for comment. Movistar has 11 million customers Venezuela -- about one-third of the population.
GM and Movistar join a long list of international companies that have been under siege in Venezuela, either from political pressure, unpaid bills or, in most cases, economic stress due to the country's plunging currency.
The verbal clashes with corporations also come as violent protests continue this week. Three people were killed Wednesday as police quelled protests with tear gas and gun shots. Another mega march is scheduled for Saturday. Protestors want a change of government after the population suffers through food and medical shortages.
--Charles Riley and Ana Melgar contributed reporting to this article
The new timeline reflects the reality that the scandal took place earlier than previously thought. Wells Fargo's own board of directors put out a 110-page report on April 10 that found evidence of "mass terminations" of employees for opening unauthorized accounts and other misconduct going back to "at least 2002."
"We made a number of mistakes, there's no question about it. We're focused on fixing what was broken, making sure that we're making things right by our customers," Wells Fargo CEO Tim Sloan told CNN's Poppy Harlow in an exclusive interview this week.
Wells Fargo said the revised settlement, which is subject to court approval, will cover "all customers" claiming that without their consent the bank opened an account in their name, enrolled them in a product or service or submitted credit card or other applications.
 Wells Fargo CEO: We're America's 'best corporate citizen'
Once preliminary approval is received for the settlement, Wells Fargo said a notice will be sent to customers explaining the process to make claims.
It's not clear how much each customer will receive because it's too early to know how many people will be included in the settlement.
After subtracting attorneys' fees and costs of administration, Wells Fargo said the $142 million will go towards reimbursing customers for fees and damage to their credit scores. The remainder of the pool will be for "additional compensation," the bank said.
Lawyers representing the plaintiffs said in a separate statement that the additional compensation will be "based on the number of unauthorized accounts, products or services opened in their names."
The class action payouts would be on top of the $3.2 million in refunds that Wells Fargo paid to customers to cover 130,000 potentially-unauthorized accounts Those refunds work out to about $25 per account.
 Feds knew of 700 Wells Fargo whistleblower complaints
Wells Fargo was at the center of a national firestorm last September when regulators slapped the bank with $185 million in fines for creating some two million unauthorized accounts. The bank said it fired 5,300 workers since 2011 for improper sales tactics.
Wells Fargo has since taken numerous steps aimed at fixing its culture, including eliminating unrealistic sales goals, changing its leadership and clawing back $180 million in pay from senior executives.
The settlement with regulators was based on a review of accounts going back to 2011. Under pressure from the public, Wells Fargo agreed to expand the account review to include 2009 and 2010.
However, Wells Fargo does not plan to review accounts back to 2002, despite the findings of the independent board report finding evidence of "mass terminations" of employees for opening unauthorized accounts and other misconduct. Sloan told CNN that's because there are "challenges" with the "quality of the data" from that long ago. He urged customers who have concerns to reach out to Wells Fargo.
"We've done everything we can to turn over every stone," Sloan said.
The 28-year old -- a German-Russian citizen police identified as Sergej W. -- bought more than 15,000 options on Borussia Dortmund shares, according to prosecutors. The options gave him the right to sell the shares at a set price in the future.
Prosecutors said he stood to make a profit of "multiples" of his original stake if the stock price had collapsed.
That did not happen. Shares in the team's holding company were worth €5.61 euro each on the day of the attack. They fell a little early the next day but closed nearly 2% higher at €5.71 on the Frankfurt stock exchange.
Marcus Silbe, a stock market analyst at Oddo Seydler Bank in Frankfurt, said the alleged attacker appeared to have little knowledge of finance, and would have gained several hundreds of thousands of euros at most.
Borussia Dortmund stock has since returned to the levels it was trading at before the bomb attack.
But the injured player -- Marc Bartra -- and the soccer club will likely need much longer to fully recover.
The team was heading to a European Champions League game against Monaco when the explosion happened. The match was postponed by 24 hours and ended in Borussia Dortmund's first home defeat in 21 matches.
The 1997 European champions and eight times German champions lost to Monaco again on Wednesday, meaning the team crashed out of the lucrative European Champions League. That sent shares tumbling 3.4%.
"What we will never know is if Borussia Dortmund [would have] succeeded against Monaco without this attack," Silbe said.

The prosecutors said the suspect bought most of the options online from his hotel on the day of the attack. It was the same hotel used by the soccer team.
 How a soccer ball brought down a top CEO
The three explosive devices shattered windows and injured Bartra. The Spanish player suffered injuries to his arm and hand, and underwent an operation.
The suspect has been charged with attempted murder, causing an explosion and aggravated battery and severe bodily harm.
The changes quickly paid off, with McDonald's reporting solid sales gains for much of 2015 and 2016.
Sales have started to cool off a bit in the U.S. recently though, but investors don't seem that alarmed. McDonald's will report its latest results on Tuesday.
The company's sales are still sizzling in many overseas markets. And all the talk about mobile ordering has analysts excited.
McDonald's USA president Chris Kempczinski told investors in March that the company planned to have mobile ordering and curbside pick-up options available in all of its U.S. restaurants by the fourth quarter.
The company is also testing a delivery service in Florida markets via mobile ordering with UberEats -- the ridesharing giant's GrubHub/Seamless (GRUB) competitor.
 McDonald's to launch ordering app and expand delivery
Two analysts upgraded McDonald's stock this week, largely due to rising expectations about the company's mobile push. Several other analysts raised their price targets on the stock as well.
Jeffrey Farmer of Wells Fargo Securities lifted his rating on McDonald's to an "outperform" -- essentially a buy -- because he thinks McDonald's has a leg up on its burger rivals in mobile.
"Restaurant consumers are aggressively gravitating toward concepts that offer the greatest level of convenience and control across ordering, payment and distribution," he wrote.
Farmer added that McDonald's is likely to get its digital payment tech out before competitors like Restaurant Brands (QSR)-owned Burger King, Wendy's (WEN) and Jack in the Box (JACK).
Bernstein's Sara Senatore -- who also boosted her rating on McDonald's to an "outperform" -- said that it was smart for McDonald's to embrace mobile ordering, just as other restaurant chains like Panera (PNRA), Domino's (DPZ) and Starbucks (SBUX) have.
Senatore did note that Starbucks has had some problems dealing with higher demand for beverages from consumers using the mobile app.
Starbucks even said in its last earnings report that long lines for drinks were scaring off customers who hadn't placed orders in advance. But Senatore argued that's a good problem to have -- and McDonald's can learn from Starbucks' growing pains.
She added that digital ordering will also help McDonald's because it "allows for greater customization while improving order accuracy and enhancing the customer experience."
 McDonald's just tweaked the Big Mac
Another analyst, Instinet's Mark Kalinowski, thinks that mobile could be a big win for McDonald's as well. Kalinowski surveys McDonald's franchisees as part of his research and found that many are excited about joining the mobile revolution.
"There's no doubt we need to be part of the smartphone generation," said one franchisee that Kalinowski surveyed.
Another said that "younger customers avoid quick-service restaurants due to lack of technology and they don't like dealing with people so the app will help."
So McDonald's clearly has a lot riding on the launch of its mobile ordering app. If technology winds up being the company's new "special sauce," then Big Mac lovers -- and investors -- may continue to flock to the Golden Arches.
The company had hinted that something like this could happen. Bebe said in an SEC filing last month that it was "exploring strategic alternatives." Earlier this month, the company said it planned to close 28 stores and was trying to figure out what to do with the rest of them.
 Walmart CEO saw his pay jump 13% last year
Before that announcement, Bebe had 168 stores in the United States and Canada.
Bebe has plenty of company in the struggling brick-and-mortar retail industry. Macy's (M), JCPenney (JCP) and Sears (SHLD) once ruled the shopping malls, but now they're closing hundreds of stores and cutting thousands of jobs.
 Macy's, JCPenney and Sears are closing stores
Luxury retailer Neiman Marcus said earlier this month that it might sell itself, after ditching its plans for an IPO in January amid sorry sales.
So who's the winner? Amazon (AMZN, Tech30), the behemoth of online retail, is seizing market share from more traditional retailers, though bargain-hunters are keeping T.J. Maxx and Dollar General (DG) in business.
And Venezuela has a lot of bills to pay soon. It owes $6 billion in debt payments for the rest of this year. There's also no sign that the country's lone source of revenue -- oil exports -- will be able to pay down those debts.
At the end of the day, Venezuela is running the risk of defaulting on its debt this year, meaning it wouldn't be able to get more loans to pay for basics like food and medicine, which are in scarce supply.
 Venezuela's latest corporate target: Spain's Telefonica
In 2011, Venezuela had $30 billion in the bank. As recently as 2015, it had $20 billion.
The worsening financial picture underscores Venezuela's problems. Violent, anti-government protests killed three people Wednesday, and more protests are scheduled for the weekend. Armed forces met protesters with tear gas and shots.
Also on Wednesday, General Motors (GM) said Venezuelan authorities seized its assembly plant. Authorities later denied it was seized, saying it's embargoed until a long-running court case is resolved, but that distinction didn't matter to GM: it shut down operations due to the government intervention.
The IMF predicted on Tuesday that inflation in Venezuela would skyrocket 720% while unemployment would shoot up over 25%. This year will likely mark the fourth straight year of recession -- entirely under socialist president Nicolas Maduro, who blames the U.S. and political opponents for the country's problems.
 Venezuela donated $500k to Trump's inauguration
But many are questioning the priorities of the government. Filings showed Venezuela -- unable to pay for imports of food for its millions of starving citizens -- donated $500,000 to President Trump's inauguration committee.
To make debt payments last year, the Venezuelan government started shipping some of its gold to Switzerland to either serve as collateral for a loan or a cash-for-gold exchange.
So far, Venezuela has paid its creditors instead of paying for basic imports of food and medicine for its struggling citizens.
Wells Fargo (WFC) recently announced that it donated $281 million to 14,900 nonprofits in 2016, part of its effort to "make every community in which we live and do business better." It ranked No. 3 among all American companies and first among financial services on cash donations in 2015, according to a survey by the Chronicle of Philanthropy.
By many other measures though, Wells Fargo would not only fall far short of being called a good corporate citizen, but such a claim would raise eyebrows.
"The support of nonprofits in its served communities is admirable, but that alone would not make Wells Fargo a model corporate citizen," said William Klepper, a Columbia Business School management professor.
Wells Fargo's policies on lending to communities have been recently called into question. Just last month, a top federal banking regulator provided a list of alleged Wells Fargo misconduct over the years: a 2012 settlement for steering minority homebuyers into more expensive mortgages than white borrowers; charges it illegally repossessed vehicles owned by service members; and allegations that the bank discriminated against pregnant women.
The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency described them as an "extensive and pervasive pattern" of violations at Wells Fargo, which also included the most recent fake account scandal, where over the 5,300 workers fired over several years for creating some two million unauthorized accounts.
The regulator severely downgraded Wells Fargo's community lending rating, citing the "egregious nature" of "discriminatory and illegal" credit practices at the big bank. It was the lowest rating for the bank since the results have been publicly released in 1994.
 Feds knew of 700 Wells Fargo whistleblower cases in 2010
Sloan has previously said Wells Fargo is "disappointed" with the rating given the bank's "strong track record" of working with low and moderate income communities.
Others have praised Wells Fargo for such work too.
"There is no one in the country that makes more loans to people of color than Wells Fargo," said John Taylor, CEO of the National Community Reinvestment Coalition, an alliance of 600 activist groups that pushes banks to loan to underserved communities. "Without private sector capital investing in communities, those communities die."
But even Taylor said "obviously what they did was atrocious," referring to the recent scandal.
While he credited Wells Fargo's efforts to fix its culture, he added, "A good corporate citizen avoids the kinds of things that they, and the other big banks, have fallen into."
Sloan admitted to CNN that Wells Fargo "made mistakes" and pointed to the many steps the bank has made to fix things. Most notably, Wells Fargo has replaced unrealistic sales goals, changed corporate leadership, fired a handful of managers, clawed back $180 million in pay from senior executives and separated the CEO and chairman roles.
On Friday, Wells Fargo agreed to increase a preliminary class action settlement for customers hurt by the fake account scandal by $32 million. The new agreement, worth $142 million, also expanded the timeframe of the settlements of cases from 2009 to 2002.
 Wells Fargo CEO refuses to dig back to 2002
But Wells Fargo has not won many friends in the community with its fake account scandal. It triggered a backlash from local and federal representatives of communities. Members of Congress in September accused then-CEO John Stumpf of running "a criminal enterprise" and one lawmaker likened the bank's leadership to "the guys who ran Enron."
Local communities have sanctioned Wells Fargo over its conduct. California, the bank's home state, suspended lucrative elements of its business relationship with Wells Fargo for one year. Wells Fargo has also been sanctioned by Illinois, Ohio and more recently Seattle's city council voted in favor of cutting ties with the bank.
 Listen to Poppy Harlow's entire Wells Fargo CEO interview
Wells Fargo's own board of directors put out a 110-page report last week that painstakingly detailed how the bank's flawed culture and unrealistic sales goals led to thousands of firings -- terminations that had real impacts on communities.
"Many employees felt that failing to meet sales goals could (and sometimes did) result in termination," the board report said.
Sloan did acknowledge to CNN that Wells Fargo had an incentive plan that "drove inappropriate behavior" and should have been "corrected sooner than we did."
Sloan also said Wells Fargo has hired back roughly 1,000 former employees, some of whom felt "uncomfortable" with the culture. However, he emphasized that the 5,300 fired are not welcome back because they violated Wells Fargo's code of ethics.

 House Republicans near potential breakthrough on health care
Also, the Trump administration is sending mixed signals about whether it will stabilize or undermine Obamacare. So far, officials have refused to promise that they will continue to pay insurers the cost-sharing subsidies that reduce out-of-pocket costs for lower-income enrollees. Many insurers want that matter settled before they commit.
President Trump has repeatedly said Obamacare is on the verge of collapse, but health policy experts dispute that. However, Obamacare may fail in certain areas next year if no insurers agree to participate.
 Trump's mixed messages on Obamacare subsidies could prompt insurers to flee
Virginia and Kentucky are among the states with the earliest filing deadlines, and insurers won't have to submit their premiums for 2018 until later this spring. The Department of Health & Human Services pushed back the federal deadline until June 21, and many states followed suit.
Also, filing now doesn't mean insurers are definitely participating next year -- they have until September to withdraw. Several carriers have said they are still contemplating their involvement in Obamacare for 2018.
Some insurers aren't waiting around to see what happens. Humana (HUM), which was on the Kentucky exchange this year, already announced it was exiting all Obamacare exchanges in 2018 -- leaving the Knoxville, Tennessee, area with no insurers. And Aetna and Wellmark will not offer policies in Iowa next year.
 Aetna pulls out of another Obamacare market for 2018
Virginia's filings revealed that  UnitedHealth (UNH) will not be on the state's exchange next year. The insurance titan largely pulled out Obamacare for this year after suffering more than $1 billion in losses on Obamacare-compliant policies.
However, the other insurers currently on the market in Virginia indicated they will come back next year, including Aetna (AET), Anthem (ANTX) and Cigna (CI), though they have yet to fully commit to their involvement.
"No final decisions have been made on our 2018 on-exchange presence due to continued uncertainty and financial risk," said a spokesman for Aetna, whose CEO said in May that Obamacare was in a "death spiral."
In Kentucky, Anthem and CareSource filed to participate next year. Anthem provides coverage in every county in the Bluegrass State this year.
The top two candidates will advance to a runoff scheduled for May 7.
The difference in yields on French and German government bonds has widened recently, suggesting that investors see French debt as an increasingly risky bet.
2. Markets whiplash: U.S. stocks have been on a wild ride this week, but futures were pointing to a higher open on Friday.
The Dow Jones industrial average added 175 points Thursday after suffering two days of heavy losses.
The S&P 500 closed 0.8% higher, while the Nasdaq increased 0.9%. Steel stocks soared after President Trump launched an investigation into whether foreign companies have flooded the market with cheap steel.
There's more uncertainty on the horizon: The government's current temporary spending bill expires on April 28. If Congress doesn't pass a spending bill soon, and if the president doesn't sign it, the U.S. could be heading for a government shutdown next week.
3. Samsung big release: Americans will be able to buy the new Samsung Galaxy S8 starting Friday.
It's Samsung's first big rollout since its fire-prone Galaxy Note 7 debacle. Samsung (SSNLF) shares were up 1.2% in Korea on Friday.
The new smartphone was supposed to feature a digital assistant, Bixby, which is seen as a competitor to Apple's Siri. But Samsung said last week that Bixby won't be fully operational until later.
The S8 is expected to launch globally later this month.
Before the Bell newsletter: Key market news. In your inbox. Subscribe now!
4. Stock market movers -- Visa, Mattel: Visa (V) shares were higher in premarket trading after the company reported strong earnings on Thursday.
Mattel (MAT) shares were heading the opposite direction after the toy maker said its sales slumped 15% in the first quarter.
5. Earnings and economics: General Electric (GE) and Honeywell (HON) are set to release earnings before the open on Friday.
Schlumberger (SLB), the world's biggest provider of oilfield services, will also report before the bell.
A report on existing home sales for March is set to be released at 10 a.m. ET. At the same time, Baker Hughes will publish its closely watched U.S. oil rig count data. Investors will be looking for more signs of activity in the U.S. shale oil industry.
The International Monetary Fund and the World Bank leaders will continue their meetings in Washington on Friday.
6. Global markets overview: European markets opened flat on Friday. Markets in Asia ended the session mixed.
Download CNN MoneyStream for up-to-the-minute market data and news
7. Coming this week:
Friday - U.S. release of Samsung's (SSNLF) Galaxy S8
McMillion has led Walmart (WMT) since 2014. Under his direction, the company has expanded its e-commerce footprint and managed to stay in the game against the likes of online shopping behemoth Amazon (AMZN, Tech30).
In its most recent quarter, Walmart's online sales grew 29% from a year ago. Amazon increased total sales by 22%.
McMillon also closed a deal to buy e-commerce site Jet.com for $3.3 billion last September. And he's joined President Donald Trump's economic advisory council.
Walmart said in January it plans to create 10,000 new U.S. jobs at the top of the year. Though the additions represent less than 1% of the company's current American workforce, it runs counter to the layoffs and store shutdowns facing other retailers.
McMillon's hefty paycheck is enviable, but not unheard of.
In the same ballpark: General Motors (GM) CEO Mary Barra earned $22.6 million in 2016, up 30% if you exclude a one-time retention bonus she received the year before. Mark Fields of Ford (F) received $22.1 million in 2016, a 19% pay hike. And Randall Stephenson, the top exec at AT&T (T, Tech30), received $28.4 million, up 13%, according to a company filing.
 GOP declares all-out war on Elizabeth Warren's agency
CFPB says Ocwen also "botched basic functions like sending accurate monthly statements, properly crediting payments, and handling taxes and insurance," according to a statement.
Ocwen staunchly denied the allegation in a statement, saying the CFPB's suit "ignores critical facts and will harm consumers."
"[T]he CFPB suit is primarily based on the CFPB's flawed review of data and its self-serving conclusion about isolated instances where Ocwen self-identified ways we can do better," the company's statement reads.
Ocwen, which was founded in 1988, is one of the biggest nonbank mortgage servicers in the U.S. Its website says its customers include more than 1.3 million families across the country.
 House Republican: President Trump, fire CFPB Director Richard Cordray
The CFPB has been a political battleground as of late. The Trump administration and many congressional Republicans want to do away with the agency. They argue the CFPB wields too much power, due in part to the fact that it's run by a single director.
A federal judge agreed with that argument in October, but the CFPB is fighting that ruling. Another hearing is scheduled for May.
Republicans have made repeated calls for President Trump to fire Richard Cordroy, the CFPB's director. But the law that created the independent agency states the president can't fire the director without cause. The CFPB has promised a legal battle if Cordroy is booted.
Democrats have vowed to defend the bureau. They say the CFPB -- which was created in the wake of the 2008 financial crisis -- provides essential oversight on banking and helps stave off predatory lending practices.
The CFPB has levied numerous punishments against banks acting badly since the bureau was formed.
In September, the bureau pinned its largest ever fine of $100 million on Wells Fargo for secretly opening millions of unauthorized accounts in order to boost its sales figures.
The country's citizens face a litany of crises -- from food and medical shortages to extremely violent crime.
"It is an amazing amount of money that could have fed a lot of your population for the month," says Russ Dallen, managing partner of Caracas Capital, an investing firm based in Miami.
 Venezuela seizes GM plant
Venezuela's state-run oil giant, PDVSA, bought Citgo in the 1980s. When the late President Hugo Chavez took power in 1999, Citgo was a huge money maker for the country.
Venezuela is home to the world's largest proven oil reserves, which once made PDVSA and Citgo major players in the energy world. During Chavez's presidency, he provided free heating to poor neighborhoods in New York and smaller Caribbean and Central American countries.
But with low oil prices and mismanaged resources, the company and country's debts are now piling up as Venezuela runs out of cash.
For the rest of this year, Venezuela and PDVSA collectively owe about $6 billion in debt payments. The central bank has only $10 billion in reserves, and much of it isn't even in cash but in gold bars. No wonder, the prospect of Venezuela defaulting on its debt has risen.
 GM isn't the only company under siege in Venezuela
But like the donation to Trump, the country's leader President Nicolas Maduro's spending priorities are being called into question. So far his government has decided to pay down its debts over feeding its people.
The donation to the inauguration has also not helped Maduro earn any favors in the White House. Trump met with the wife of Maduro's jailed political opponent Leopoldo Lopez in the White House in February and tweeted that he should be freed.
 Venezuela protests: What you need to know
This past week, the country has been racked by massive protests that were met with force by Venezuelan security forces. At least three people have been killed.
"It's very clear he's putting money behind his priorities, but those don't necessarily include the population of the country, in terms of food, medicine, safety," says Eric Farnsworth, vice president at the Council of the Americas.
Food imports to Venezuela dropped 50% last year, according to trade statistics. Venezuelans living in extreme poverty lost an average of 21 pounds of weight last year due to lack of food, according to ENCOVI, a polling firm in Venezuela.
There are more than 40,000 Subway shops around the globe, which means it has more stores than any fast food chain on the planet.
 JCPenney stores get a temporary lifeline
McDonald's (MCD) has the second highest restaurant count with about 36,000 stores worldwide, though it tops Subway in sales.
Subway said Thursday its 2016 U.S. sales totaled about $11.3 billion, down from $11.5 billion in 2015.
The company said in a statement that the dip was due to a "focus on international growth," where sales were up. It's stores abroad brought in $5.8 billion, up 3.7% from the year before.
Subway also hinted that its planning a few big changes this year that aim to reinvigorate its growth stateside.
 Payless ShoeSource is filing for bankruptcy
"Going into 2017, we are undertaking an exciting transformation that includes introducing new and improved products, creating an even greater customer experience, refining operations, and positioning Subway franchisees for continued success," the company said in a statement.
He said in a press conference that steel imports "have continued to rise, and they've continued to rise despite repeated Chinese claims that they were going to reduce their steel capacity when instead they have actually been increasing it consistently."
Ross noted that steel imports are up nearly 20% so far this year and that foreign steel now makes up more than a quarter of the entire U.S. market. He said that has had "a very serious impact" on the domestic steel industry and that it could impinge on "our economic and national defense security."
Shares of many American steel companies, including U.S. Steel (X), Nucor (NUE), Cliffs Natural Resources (CLF), AK Steel (AKS) and Steel Dynamics (STLD) all soared on the news, with some of the steel stocks climbing nearly 10%.
 Is Trump fixating on jobs he can't bring back?
Steel Dynamics also reported solid earnings Wednesday and Nucor issued a strong report Thursday, further helping to lift the group.
The broader market was in rally mode too, thanks in large part to comments from Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin about the possibility of a tax reform plan being announced soon. The Dow surged nearly 200 points.
Ross told reporters that no firm decisions had been made yet about what the U.S. will do to try and make American steel more competitive.
But he did not rule out the possibility of tariffs, saying that the plan likely "won't be to prohibit foreign imports, it just will be to change the price."
Any moves by the Trump administration would be another example of the president's desire to protect old school, blue collar U.S. industries, many of which have been laying off workers due to a combination of the effects of automation and globalization.
Trump has also pledged to try and help workers in hard hit sectors such as oil and coal mining.
Whether or not tariffs or other protectionist measures will actually boost any of these industries remains to be seen. But steel companies were quick to applaud the president.
U.S. Steel said in a statement that it is "pleased" that the president is launching a national security investigation into steel dumping.
"For too long, China and other nations have been conducting economic warfare against the American steel industry by subsidizing their steel industries, distorting global markets, and dumping excess steel into the United States," the company said.
U.S. Steel added that "tens of thousands of workers in the American steel industry, the industry's supply chain and the communities in which our industry operates have lost their jobs due to unfair and illegal practices by foreign producers."
And AK Steel CEO Roger Newport said in a statement that "we are hopeful that this action on behalf of our Administration will help us and other steel producers in America compete on an even playing field in all of our markets."
Newport, U.S. Steel chief Mario Longhi and several other steel CEOs met with Trump at the White House on Thursday to discuss the state of the industry and the administration's plans to crack down on steel dumping.
Trump and Ross need to tread cautiously though. If the U.S. clamps down too aggressively on Chinese steel, China could retaliate by slapping tariffs on American-made cars, electronics and other consumer goods.
China also owns more than $1 trillion worth of U.S. government bonds. China has been steadily trimming its Treasury holdings in recent months. If China ramps up the pace of its sales, that could send long-term bond yields sharply higher --something Trump would not want to see as he tries to stimulate the U.S. economy.
But Trump seems to recognize the need to be careful with China. He has already backed off his campaign pledge to label China a currency manipulator in his first few days in office for example.
 Top Reagan economist tells Trump: Cut taxes ASAP
"We hope that this won't take until the end of the year," said Mnuchin.
Trump's top economic adviser Gary Cohn spoke later at the event and said both men have been spending a lot of time working together on a tax proposal.
"We're going to come up with a unified, united tax proposal from the White House that will include individual as well as corporate," said Cohn, the director of the National Economic Council.
Neither senior official offered specific details of what the administration's plan might look like. Cohn said the administration's plan would be in line with campaign promises made by the president to lower rates, to simplify and to increase U.S. competitiveness.
"We've got a lot of things on the table," Cohn said. "We're working with all of the different levers."
Cohn said the administration didn't know if proposed changes would be revenue neutral yet, meaning they wouldn't add to deficits, only that the White House was seeking permanent changes to the corporate tax code. Earlier, Mnuchin suggested that a tax proposal would "pay for itself."
The administration could try to pass a bill through reconciliation, which requires 50 votes to pass in the Senate. But then any changes to the tax code would expire. "They need some permanence in the tax code," said Cohn.
 Trump is dialing back his economic promises. Bigly.
Mnuchin said he hoped that there would be bipartisan support for a plan. But if the administration fails to reach consensus with Democrats, they would consider working through the reconciliation process to finalize tax reform.
The treasury secretary said he has been working since "day one" with policymakers on Capitol Hill, including Senate Finance Chairman Kevin Brady and other members of the panel. He said Senate lawmakers, so far, share the same objectives, including simplifying individual taxes and making U.S. business taxes more competitive.
Also topping the administration's economic agenda: infrastructure.
The president's budget director Mick Mulvaney said Thursday the administration plans to include $200 billion for new infrastructure spending in its fiscal year 2018 budget.
"We're certainly going to spend some money," said the Office of Management Budget Director on Thursday who was also speaking at the IIF event. "The president wants a trillion dollars' worth of work on the ground and we're going to give it to him."
On the campaign trail, the president promised to spend more on improving U.S. roads, but hasn't provided any details on how he would pay for it. Mulvaney said any plan wouldn't be ready until the fall.
Analysts say the Trump administration is now dropping hints that it will reimpose sanctions unless Tehran stops what the U.S. says is destabilizing behavior in the Middle East.
"Tillerson may be suggesting that the U.S. can leverage renewal of nuclear related sanctions easing under the nuclear deal for a change in Iranian regional behavior," said Ellie Geranmayeh, policy fellow at the European Council on Foreign Relations.
 Chinese firm fined $1.2 billion for violating U.S. sanctions on Iran
So who loses out if Trump does decide to abandon the nuclear deal?
Iran's economy
Iran has the fourth largest crude reserves in the world and also claims nearly one-fifth of the planet's natural gas.
Oil is a vital part of the economy. The country has ramped up production since sanctions were eased to about 3.8 million barrels a day. That's about a million barrels a day more than in 2015.
Iran's big return to global markets complicated attempts by OPEC producers and others to reduce a supply glut that had sent prices crashing.
Tehran insisted on keeping its production near four million barrels a day, in line with the amount it was pumping before sanctions were imposed. It got its wish and was given an exemption from OPEC's agreement to cut output.
 Why ExxonMobil would want to get back into Russia
Airplane makers
The biggest deals signed with foreign companies so far have been for airplanes to modernize Iran's creaking fleet.
Boeing (BA) signed an $8 billion deal to sell 80 jets to Iran Air after the sanctions were lifted.
Earlier this month, it also signed an agreement to sell 30 737 MAX airplanes worth $3 billion to Aseman Airlines, another Iranian carrier.
European rival Airbus (EADSY) wants a share of the action too. It has agreed to sell 100 jets to Iran for about $10 billion. But even that deal could be in jeopardy if Trump decides to get tough with Tehran since the jets include parts made in America and Airbus would need U.S. approval.
"While it is still too early to definitively state the Trump administration's position on [Iran], the early returns do not look promising. It has no discernible plans to pursue American trade and investment with Iran, or make it easier for other countries to do so," said Reza Marashi, research director at the National Iranian American Council.
Oil companies and GE
Other foreign companies have also been eyeing Iran's huge potential.
France's Total has signed a $2 billion agreement to help Iran develop its giant South Pars gas field, together with Chinese state oil company CNPC.
General Electric (GE) said last year that it has "begun looking at potential business opportunities in Iran, while fully complying with the rules laid out by the U.S. government."
The next big test for the nuclear deal is likely to come in June, when sanctions waivers signed by President Obama will be due for renewal. It's the first time Trump will have to sign them.
"If the Trump administration does reissue the waivers, I think that is a significant turning point in which confidence in the deal will begin to grow," said Trita Parsi, author of Losing An Enemy - Obama, Iran and the Triumph of Diplomacy.
Bitcoin was worth under $500 a year ago. Today the digital currency trades at over $1,200. Back in 2013, Novogratz predicted Bitcoin's value would soar. He remembers people laughing at him at the time.
Since then, Bitcoin's price has been on a wild run. It surged to nearly $1,000 in late 2013 and then fell to under $250 in 2015. It started to fly again last year, around the time of the Brexit vote. It surpassed $1,000 in January of this year again and has kept climbing.
Now Novogratz is saying Bitcoin will go to $2,000.
But he also warned the Harvard Business School Club crowd that there will "likely be a bubble" in digital currencies. The best way to handle it, he argues, is the old Wall Street trick of diversification. Put a little money in a lot of different plays in digital currency.
 What is Bitcoin? Read CNN's explainer
For example, Novogratz was also an early investor in Ether. It's another digital currency that has quickly emerged as the No. 2 rival to Bitcoin. Novogratz says he bought Ether when it was trading for about $1. Today it's worth over $48.
Novogratz met Vitalik Buterin, the young Russian brainchild behind Ether at a dinner party at a prominent CEO's home. He recalls that Buterin, then 21, showed up late, which struck him as shocking -- and a bit ballsy. He figured it was worth paying attention to Buterin.
Ether is a currency with a "smart contract" function that gives users additional security and abilities to transfer information in addition to monetary value.
We're witnessing the "3rd inning" of this digital asset revolution, Novogratz predicts. He's not exactly sure how it will play out, but he plans to continue investing in digital currencies and Blockchain, the revolutionary technology behind the scenes that makes Bitcoin work.
Blockchain is literally a digital ledger to record and track transactions. What makes it so technologically advanced is that multiple companies or parties can access the Blockchain and see the history of what happened to an asset.
 Yext: The newest $1 billion tech company
Novogratz has emerged as one of the biggest Wall Street cheerleaders of Blockchain, but his bets haven't always gone so well. He exited Fortress in 2015 after the company shut down his Marco Fund for poor performance. It lost around 20% in its final year after his investments in emerging markets, especially Brazil, tanked.
"We have had an extremely challenging two years, and I do not believe the current environment is conducive to achieving our best results," Novogratz said at the time.
Verizon's stock is now down 10% this year while Sprint (S) and T-Mobile (TMUS) are both up. Verizon is also lagging key rival AT&T (T, Tech30) -- although Ma Bell's shares are down 5% in 2017. (AT&T is in the process of acquiring CNNMoney owner Time Warner (TWX).)
Verizon and AT&T are both facing tougher competition from their two smaller rivals, who have aggressively marketed unlimited calling, texting and data plans.
Verizon's quarterly subscriber loss was the first of its so-called postpaid wireless customers in the company's history.
(Postpaid subscribers pay as they go, getting a monthly bill, while prepaid customers pay in advance for a certain allotment of minutes and messages.)
Wall Street analysts were predicting that Verizon had added more than 200,000 postpaid subscribers in the quarter. So Verizon clearly disappointed investors -- by a mile.
But there was some good news. Verizon said that since it launched its own unlimited monthly plan back in mid-February, it added 109,000 postpaid customers.
They key for Verizon though will be whether or not it can build on the momentum from the end of the quarter.
Verizon also is still juggling many different balls in the air. The company is in the process of acquiring the core assets of Yahoo. Verizon plans to merge the Yahoo business with its AOL unit and rename the combined company with the odd moniker of Oath.
Yahoo (YHOO, Tech30) said in its own earnings report earlier this week that it expected the Verizon deal to close sometime by the end of June.
 Yahoo and AOL will be part of a new company called Oath
But some investors aren't sure if the merger of Yahoo and AOL will actually make the two -- which were kings of the Internet in the late 1990s but have suffered a fall from grace since then -- more competitive against the likes of Google (GOOGL, Tech30) and Facebook (FB, Tech30).
It doesn't help that Verizon said in Thursday's earnings report that AOL's revenues fell 4% in the first quarter.
That's led to chatter that Verizon may not be done shopping.
And Verizon CEO Lowell McAdam further fueled the merger talks earlier this week, saying in an interview with Bloomberg that he'd be open to talks with Disney (DIS), Comcast (CMCSA) or CBS (CBS) if the heads of any of those companies gave him a call about a deal.
There has also been speculation that Verizon could be interested in buying cable company Charter (CHTR).
But MoffettNathanson analyst Craig Moffett doesn't think Verizon really wants to do a gigantic transformative media deal like AT&T, which has also scooped up DirecTV, has.
Moffett wrote in a report that Verizon is likely to remain focused on wireless. He said Verizon still believes, that for better or for worse, it can "win through a strategy of network superiority."
Can you hear that now, Wall Street?
CNNTech's Kaya Yurieff contributed to this report.
And he apparently took matters into his own hands and shot off a letter to Elliott Management's founder Paul Singer.
In the letter, Kleinfeld talked about Singer's 2006 family trip to Germany to watch the FIFA World Cup soccer tournament.
"It was much to my delight when I recently learned from Berlin what a phenomenal soccer enthusiast you must be," Kleinfeld wrote.
Kleinfeld then appeared to mock Singer for allegedly performing the classic Gene Kelly show tune "Singin' in the Rain" in a water fountain during the Germany visit.
The letter says: "By the way: 'Singing in the Rain' is indeed a wonderful classic -- even though I never tried to sing it in a fountain."
He ominously added that "quite a few people who accompanied you in Berlin in 2006 during and especially after the many matches you attended are still full of colorful memories about this obviously remarkable time."
Kleinfeld concluded the letter by saying that he was sending Singer a World Cup 2006 soccer ball as "a token of my appreciation to learn about this completely 'other side' of you" and said that if "I manage to find a native American Indian's feather headdress I will send this additional essential part of the memories."
It's unclear what exactly Kleinfeld was referring to with regards to the headdress.
Elliott Management released the letter, which it said Singer received on April 11, late Wednesday. The firm also released its responses to Arconic.
Arconic said Monday that Kleinfeld sent the letter "without consultation with, or authorization by the Board" and that the letter "showed poor judgment."
Elliott Management, which has also made waves recently for taking on Samsung over corporate governance issues, didn't find the letter to be amusing either.
The company's general counsel and chief legal officer, Richard Zabel, fired back a letter to Arconic's board on April 12.
"While much of what it says doesn't make sense, we do understand Dr. Kleinfeld to be making veiled suggestions that he might intimidate or extort Mr. Singer based on Mr. Singer's family trip to Germany in 2006, when he attended the World Cup," Zabel wrote.
Zabel added that "this is highly inappropriate behavior by anyone and certainly by the CEO of a regulated, publicly traded company, in the midst of a proxy contest, and it raises a number of obvious issues."
Five days later, Kleinfeld was out of a job.
To use a soccer term Kleinfeld might appreciate, he scored an own goal -- accidentally kicking the ball into the wrong net.
Exxon said it does not comment on "ongoing issues."
But there are powerful reasons why Houston-based Exxon would want to get back into business with the state-backed firm: Their agreement to form a joint venture, signed in 2011, allowed Exxon to conduct offshore exploration in the Black Sea and the Kara Sea in Siberia.
The undeveloped oil fields are thought to be the most promising in the Russian Arctic, according to S&P Global Platts.
In 2012, the two firms agreed to jointly develop more oil reserves in Siberia and establish a research center in the Arctic.
Plans to build a large natural gas plant near Vladivostock in eastern Russia followed in 2013.
The deepening relationship was put on hold, however, after the U.S., European Union and other Western countries imposed sanctions on Russia in 2014 over its role in the crisis in Ukraine.
Exxon, which has been operating in Russia for more than 20 years, was allowed to finish some of its projects. But then the drilling stopped.
A lot has changed since then. The Russian economy has turned the corner, emerging from a painful recession in the final quarter of 2016.
Oil prices have climbed back above $50 per barrel.
 Russia could soon control a U.S. oil company
Still, the waiver request is a major political gambit for Exxon.
The Trump administration is under intense scrutiny over its ties to Moscow. The fact that the current secretary of state, Rex Tillerson, spearheaded the Rosneft deal while CEO of Exxon, has drawn even more attention to the waiver request.
Tillerson has recused himself from all government matters involving Exxon. He also sold all his stock in the firm, and is placing the shares he would have received over the next decade into an independently managed trust.
But a political storm appears to be brewing.
Sen. John McCain, a Republican, asked "Are they crazy?" when news of the waiver application broke. McCain is a leading critic of Russian President Vladimir Putin.
Are they crazy? @WSJ: "Exxon Seeks U.S. Waiver to Resume #Russia Oil Venture" https://t.co/CHKS3sjOa8

Rep. Adam Schiff, the top Democrat on the House Intel Committee, said that the waiver should be denied.
"The Treasury Department should reject any waiver from sanctions which would allow Exxon Mobile or any other company to resume business with prohibited Russian entities," he said in a statement. "Until Russia abides by the Minsk accords and ends its illegal occupation of Crimea, the only changes to sanctions should be their intensification, not their dilution."
Still, the financial incentives for Exxon are powerful when it comes to Russia.
In March of 2016, Tillerson said that Exxon was "very anxious to get back to work there."
It's a hope echoed by his successor.
"In Russia, we're there for the long term," CEO Darren Woods said in a February interview with Forbes.
--CNN Elise Labott contributed to this report.
GM (GM) is just the latest major multinational company to report massive problems from operations in Venezuela. The country is in the midst of weeks of bloody protests by its citizens demanding a change of government after years of political turmoil and a severe economic crisis.
In 2015, Pepsi (PEP) took a massive $1.4 billion loss from its business in Venezuela, citing the country's plummeting currency and political mess. At the time, Pepsi said it will no longer count its Venezuela business in its overall revenues.
 Venezuela's protests: What you need to know
Mondelez (MDLZ), maker of Oreos, wrote off its Venezuela business after taking nearly a $800 million loss last year. Although it sells Oreos and other products in Venezuela, it doesn't count that business in its overall operations.
McDonald's (MCD) still operates in Venezuela, but in the last two years it's had to temporarily halt sales of french fries and Big Macs due to food shortages.
Delta (DAL), American (AAL), United (UAL) and other airlines are collectively still trying to claw back $3.8 billion in profits frozen in Venezuela. Those airlines, along with Lufthansa, Alitalia and LATAM, either drastically reduced flights to Venezuela or stopped flying there entirely.
Coca-Cola (KO) has recorded multiple losses in recent years from its Venezuela business, and it temporarily halted production there last year due to a lack of sugar supply in the country. But it still operates there.
Venezuela is home to the world's largest oil reserves. That used to attract oil service providers like Baker Hughes (BHI) and Schlumberger (SLB). But in the past year, they've shut down some of the rigs that dredge up Venezuela's oil, citing unpaid bills from the government. It's a major reason why Venezuela's critical oil production is in sharp decline.
Nearly 10% of U.S. companies in the S&P 500 -- 46 firms -- have had exposure at one point since 2015 to Venezuela's plunging currency, the bolivar, which is worth less than one penny now. IBM (IBM, Tech30), Oracle (ORCL, Tech30), DirecTV (DIRV), GE (GE), and Ford (F) are among firms that have mentioned at one point exposure to Venezuela in earnings reports and many of them have stopped counting any revenue from Venezuela.
 3 killed during anti-government protest in Venezuela
The corporate exodus is only one thread of a country in crisis mode. On Wednesday, three people died in nationwide protests against President Nicolas Maduro.
Protests have ramped up in recent weeks after Maduro's administration barred popular opposition leader Henrique Capriles from holding any political office for 15 years.
Due to the economic crisis, Venezuelans continue to live through food and medical shortages, along with skyrocketing prices for basics that are available. Food imports fell 50% last year, which is a disaster in a country that grows little of its own food, after years of the government neglecting the country's vast agricultural resources.
--Rafael Romo, Marilia Brocchetto, Osmary Hernandez, Ray Sanchez, Mariano Castillo and Alanna Petroff contributed reporting.
That might be because his administration proposes cutting federal funding for job training programs, though it hasn't spelled out how much, according to the Office of Budget and Management. It wants states, cities and towns to carry the weight of funding job training programs.
It's a view at odds with is predecessor, President Obama, who broke records on federal spending for job training and apprenticeships.
It also doesn't jive with the view of many economists and employers. Trump got to meet one of those employers on Tuesday.
 What American manufacturing looks like in Trump era
When Trump went to Kenosha, Wisconsin, to tout his Buy American executive order he told a crowd of technical students and manufacturing employees at the headquarters of Snap-On Tools: "The buy and hire American order I'm about to sign will protect workers and students like you."
But Snap-On CEO Nicholas Pinchuk too wants to focus on job skills, not H1-B visas. As the head of the tool manufacturing company, he knows where the problem lies.
"The best way to make America successful...is to arm our people with the technical capabilities that enable them to win that global contest for prosperity," Pinchuk said in a statement on the company's website.
Pinchuk isn't alone. America's top economist, Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen, emphasized that point in a speech in late March.
"Educational programs and training that lead to better paying and more steady work are crucial for people without college degrees, particularly lower-income workers," Yellen said.
 This manufacturer helps rebuild lives
In short, research, anecdotes and experts show that job skills and training -- not restricting H1-B visas -- is the solution to a lot of problems for American workers.
For example, former coal workers in Pennsylvania are learning to write computer code -- a skill in high demand -- at a free retraining program called Mined Mines, a non-profit.
America had 5.7 million job openings in February. That's hovering near an all-time high. Part of that is good because employers are hiring. Part of it is bad because it means some employers just can't find skilled workers to match their openings.
Trump did briefly touch on job skills Tuesday, saying education secretary Betsy DeVos "is working to ensure that our workers are trained for the skilled technical jobs that will, in the future, power our country."
Trump also said, "workforce development and vocational training -- very important words," when German Chancellor Angela Merkel visited in March.
But as Trump aims to cut down government spending, his words aren't backed up by important funding for job training and apprenticeship programs.
 This Michigan toymaker pledged to never leave the U.S.
Federal job training programs have had issues. The Labor Department's own 2012 study found flaws in the job training programs for workers who lose positions due to free trade. Workers ended up in jobs they didn't want or didn't pay as much as their previous jobs.
However, that is just one type of job training program, and liberals and conservatives alike tend to agree that most job training programs and apprenticeships are key to middle-class jobs, especially for those without a 4-year college degree.
The White House's Office of Management and Budget did not respond to request for comment.
Federal spending hasn't come to a complete halt yet. On Wednesday, the Labor Department approved $3.2 million in grants for training and reemployment services for workers in California affected by layoffs.
--Jeremy Diamond contributed reporting to this article
Agranoff's lightbulb moment came in 2013 at a high-school basketball game, where he noticed most kids were wearing the same plain Nike athletic socks. If these simple socks started such a craze, he wondered: What would happen if he kicked things up a notch and printed custom designs on them?

 An Indian technologist creating factory jobs in America
Fast forward four years, and HoopSwagg now offers more than 200 original designs created by Agranoff himself: a mix of goofy (a melting ice cream cone), funky (a spoof of the infamous Portland International Airport carpet) and tongue-in-cheek ("goat farm," a family inside joke scattered with photos of the real animals on the family's property). Agranoff also wants to allow customers to create their own designs in the future.
The company is now shipping 70 to 100 orders a day, with each pair of socks priced at $14.99. And this week, HoopSwagg announced its first acquisition: It bought competitor TheSockGame.com, which will add over 300 designs to the portfolio and help expand HoopSwagg's customer base.
But HoopSwagg started small. After Agranoff's initial idea at the school basketball game, he spent six months researching logistics like machinery and technology needed for custom digital printing on fabric.
He then made the case to two potential investors: his parents. "They thought the concept was a little out there," Agranoff said. But he was persistent and ultimately received a $3,000 loan.
In true startup fashion, HoopSwagg launched in the family garage in Sherwood, Oregon, just outside of Portland. Agranoff set up the design printing and heat presser machines with his family's help. He enlisted his parents to buy "as many white athletic socks as they could get from Dick's Sporting Goods."
Hoopswagg's first year was slow. But momentum grew quickly after the socks -- which Agranoff said are "for everyone from 6-year-olds to 80-year-olds" -- took off on social media.
 Stores are scooping up this nut-free ice cream
Agranoff leveraged his own social network and targeted a group of social influencers to help spread the word. In particular, the sock design inspired by the Portland airport's former teal-and-geometric-shape pattern went viral, bringing more attention to the brand.
As sales soared, the company quickly outgrew the garage. The Agranoff family built a 1,500-square-foot building on their property to accommodate production, warehousing and shipping.
His mother joined the business full-time, and Agranoff also has 17 other part-time employees. But self-sufficiency is key to his success, he said. Agranoff also taught himself to code, so he could better set up and manage his business' website, and how to use graphic design tools to develop the designs. He remains the company's only graphic designer, though he is colorblind.
 A cloth slow cooker is empowering rural women around the world
For now, the socks are primarily sold through HoopSwagg's website and via Amazon (AMZN, Tech30), eBay (EBAY) and Etsy. The next three years are pivotal for HoopSwagg, said Agranoff, who wants the brand to be in retail stores," said Agranoff. He's also expanding customization to other products like shoelaces, arm sleeves and ties.
Meanwhile, Agranoff is set to graduate high school six months early. While college is in the plan at some point, he's slated to focus on HoopSwagg full-time after high school graduation. He currently spends about six hours per day on the business, after putting in a day of school and finishing his homework.
While Agranoff has never taken a business class, he learned a lot by buying items at garage sales and selling them on eBay -- a pursuit he began when he was eight.
"So really, I've been learning how to do this for a while," said Agranoff. "Especially today, with all the information available on the internet, you can't be too young to learn how to be an entrepreneur."
"We've done everything we can to turn over every stone," Sloan told CNN's Poppy Harlow in an exclusive interview this week.
Those unauthorized accounts -- and dismissals -- are on top of the two million fake accounts that regulators say Wells Fargo (WFC) opened between 2011 and 2015, which led to 5,300 firings.
Last year, after the scandal broke, the bank committed to look at problems going back to 2009. Sloan said the new findings won't change the timeline.
CNN pushed back, asking how then is the company truly getting to the bottom of it to repair its culture if it's putting the onus on customers to flag what the bank had done wrong.
"If they have a concern about their account, they should come in and see us," said Sloan, who was promised to repair Wells Fargo's broken trust with customers and employees. He cited "challenges" with the "quality of the data" that goes back that far.
 Listen to Poppy Harlow's entire Wells Fargo CEO interview
Wells Fargo stressed that in the wake of the scandal, it reached out to about 40 million retail customers, as well as 3 million small business customers through messages, mailing and online. The bank has refunded more than $3.2 million to customers on about 130,000 potentially-unauthorized accounts.
"We need to make things right with our customers," Sloan said.
He called the massive investigation by Wells Fargo's board of directors both "spot on" and "very hard to read" given his nearly 30 years at the company.
That board report found that Wells Fargo's own internal investigations division found problems going back to 2002 and flagged them. In fact, in the summer of 2002, the investigation "determined that almost an entire branch in Colorado engaged in a form of 'gaming' in connection with a promotional campaign" that year. The incident involved improper teller referral credits, as well as "employees issuing debit cards without customer consent."
John Stumpf, Wells Fargo's longtime CEO who stepped down suddenly last year amid the scandal, was made aware of the Colorado incident, according to the board report. Stumpf became head of the community banking unit in 2002, and seemingly continued to ignore the issues over the years.
 Feds knew of 700 Wells Fargo whistleblower cases in 2010
Wells Fargo's board clawed back an additional $28 million from Stumpf last week saying he was "too slow to investigate or critically challenge" the bank's sales tactics. The report concluded that Stumpf's commitment to the bank's sales culture led him to "minimize problems" despite "growing indications that the situation was worsening."
Sloan, who worked closely with Stumpf, acknowledged that his former boss "made some mistakes, like we all made mistakes."
But Sloan declined to say whether he felt misled by his former boss.
"The best person to ask is John Stumpf," Sloan said.

United (UAL) CEO Oscar Munoz has apologized several times and said he accepts full responsibility for the incident, which has turned into a PR nightmare for the company. But he has received the backing of the board and no one has been fired.
Clark said he would have gone further had he been in charge.
"Had it been me in that position I would've have had blue flashing lights on cars going right through the company to find out how this could've been allowed to happen in the first place. That was probably the last thing I do before I resigned."
A video of Dr. David Dao being dragged off an aircraft in Chicago after he refused to give up his seat to make room for United crew went viral on social media, prompting a fierce backlash against the airline.
Munoz's early statements described the passenger as being re-accommodated and suggested he had been "disruptive and belligerent."
 United CEO Oscar Munoz is walking a tightrope to fix an airline
Rival airlines, including Emirates, trolled United with advertisements right after the incident.
Emirates and the other Gulf carriers, Etihad Airways and Qatar Airways, have been at odds with major American airlines for years.
Delta Air (DAL), United Airlines (UAL) and American Airlines (AAL) have repeatedly complained that state subsidies have given the Gulf carriers an unfair advantage. Emirates, Etihad and Qatar Airways all deny the accusation.
"We're just expecting to get slammed," said Craig "C.J." Fuchs of Studio420, a pipe shop and smoking room in Englewood, Colorado. "We're expecting to be probably packed from Thursday to Sunday."
Fuchs, who owns the business with his father, Marty, said he's doubling his usual entry fee to $20 for the 4/20 weekend. Patrons are allowed to smoke at Studio420 even though Fuchs doesn't sell weed, just the merchandise for it. But for those retailers who do, 4/20 provides an annual boom for pot sales.
 10 things to know about legal pot
"What we do see is a pretty heavy spike, anywhere from 30% to 40% in the week leading up, and in the days after," said Grant Pettrie, sales director for Denver-based Potguide.com, an information source on marijuana law and business as well as dispensaries and discounts. "There's more of an uptick because it's becoming more accepted."
Recreational marijuana is legal in Washington, D.C., and eight states, including five states that legalized it just last year. In Colorado, Oregon and Washington state, all of which have had a legal recreational market for years, 4/20 has taken on the trappings of a de facto sales holiday, like Valentine's Day for florists and jewelers or New Year's for health clubs and liquor stores.
 The vice that's not welcome in Sin City
"Yes, 4/20 really does show a large increase in sales," said Justin Viviani, manager of The Oregon Weedery, a dispensary in Portland. "Last year 4/20 was on Wednesday, traditionally our slowest day of the week, and we saw a 300% increase in visits and sales."
Viviani said he'll be offering discounts on new products, as well as live music at the dispensary with free "non-medicated" snacks.
This year, 4/20 is on a Thursday, which puts it closer to the weekend. Viviani believes this could lead to even stronger sales, so he's stocking up.
"We will be heavily staffed with extra budtenders that day," he said. "We package our own flower and craft our own joints so we will be doing a lot of pre-work just to stay stocked."
 Trump is a buzzkill for pot stocks
It's not just dispensaries that see extra business around 4/20. Retailers that sell smoking implements, marijuana-themed clubs and smoking rooms and producers of cannabis products like edibles and tinctures also get boosts.
According to New Frontier, a research company that analyzes the marijuana industry, sales on 4/20 tend to be several times higher than on other days, and discounts play a role in driving that.
In classic Black Friday fashion, many retailers offer 4/20 discounts of up to 30% for medical marijuana, and up to 50% for recreational, according to Pettrie of Potguide.com.
"This is a really good time to stock up on product," he said.
Green Man Cannabis, a company with two dispensaries in Denver, fuels the 30% sales bump it has seen on 4/20 with discounts of nearly 50% on pre-rolled joints and 20% on marijuana purchases of at least a quarter-ounce.
Native Roots, a company with 14 dispensaries in Colorado, is marking 4/20 with its "smokin' token promotion," where any customer buying an ounce of marijuana during the month of April could potentially win 12 free ounces, distributed one per month over the next year.
But not everyone is jumping on the 4/20 band wagon. Punit Seth, CEO and co-founder of the newly released marijuana brand Toast, isn't offering any discounts for his $85 10-packs of cannabis cigarettes.
"4/20 is almost like St. Patrick's Day for alcohol; it's about getting as messed up as possible," said Seth, whose web site depicts models in suits and furs puffing weed in a chic-looking lounge. "We want our product to be held in a different light."
U.S. crude futures fell more than 4%, or $2 per barrel, to just above $50 on Wednesday.
OPEC and other major producers have cut production in order to support prices, and they are talking about extending the cuts further. OPEC representatives met Thursday at a conference in Abu Dhabi.
Increased U.S. crude production could hamper their efforts.
Oil gained some of the losses back on Thursday, trading just above $51 per barrel.
2. Verizon results: Verizon (VZ, Tech30) is set to release its results before the opening bell on Thursday.
Investors will be looking for confirmation of its Yahoo takeover timetable. Despite two massive security breaches that threatened the deal, Yahoo said this week its takeover by Verizon will be completed in June.
Yahoo and AOL are expected to form a new company under Verizon called Oath this summer.
3. Markets overview: U.S. stock futures were higher on Thursday.
The Dow Jones industrial average slipped more than 110 points for a second day in row on Wednesday, a decline of 0.6%.
The S&P 500 closed 0.2% lower, while the Nasdaq gained 0.2%.
European markets opened mostly higher on Thursday, while markets in Asia ended the session mixed.
Before the Bell newsletter: Key market news. In your inbox. Subscribe now!
4. Stock market movers -- Qualcomm, American Express, eBay: Qualcomm (QCOM, Tech30) shares were higher premarket after company earnings released Wednesday topped expectations.
American Express (AXP) were also moving higher before the bell after the firm posted better than expected first quarter results.
Shares in eBay (EBAY) were 2% lower premarket after the company issued a disappointing revenue forecast.
5. Earnings: Phillip Morris International (PM) and IMAX (IMAX) are set to release earnings before the open Thursday, while Visa (V) and Mattel (MAT) will publish earnings after the close.
Download CNN MoneyStream for up-to-the-minute market data and news
6. Coming this week:
Thursday - Mattel (MAT) earnings report Friday - U.S. release of Samsung's (SSNLF) Galaxy S8
Veterans eligible for Medicaid expansion -- individuals earning up to $16,400 -- saw the largest drop in uninsured rates. Prior to Obamacare, some 21.6% of these vets lacked coverage. By 2015, this share fell to 12.2%. The declines were largest in the states that expanded Medicaid.
 Trump sends mixed signals on Obamacare
Veterans who qualify for subsidies on the Obamacare exchanges -- a single person earning up to $47,500 -- also saw declines. Some 10.6% were uninsured in 2013, but only 6.6% were two years later.
Veterans' families also benefited from Obamacare. The uninsured rate among spouses fell to 5.5% from 9.2%, while the rate among children fell to 2.9% from 4.5%.
The majority of uninsured vets were older than age 45, and half of them worked full-time.
The Urban Institute report came out the same day President Trump signed an executive order extending the Veterans Choice Program, an Obama administration initiative that allows veterans unable to get timely care at a Veterans Administration facility to go to a non-VA provider.
The review painted a damning picture of the OCC's ability to spot what in retrospect should have been obvious problems at one of the nation's biggest banks.
The OCC did confront Carrie Tolstedt, then head of Wells Fargo's community bank, about the stunning number of whistleblower claims. However, there are no records that show that federal inspectors "investigated the root cause," or force Wells Fargo to probe it.
It's now clear that root cause of Wells Fargo's problems -- both the creation of fake accounts and the related 5,300 firings -- was the notoriously aggressive sales goals targets set by senior management. At one point, rank and file bankers were asked to open as many as eight accounts per customer. That's why the bank has eliminated them.
From top management to Wells Fargo's board of directors, everyone turned a blind eye to these issues. There's evidence now that some of this was flagged as early as 2004 to management.
And the OCC report says that Wells Fargo's board of directors received "regular" reports going back to 2005 indicating that most ethics line complaints and firings were related to sales violations.
That appears to be earlier than the Wells Fargo board has indicated it was aware of a problem. A 110-page investigation launched by Wells Fargo's board said the bank's management did not flag sales practices as "noteworthy risks" to the board prior to 2014.
The OCC examiners in charge of Wells Fargo received those same reports "since at least early 2010," the review found.
 Wells Fargo CEO: Our ethics line is safe
Ultimately, it took until September 2016 for several federal authorities, including the OCC, to finally sanction Wells Fargo. Wells Fargo's $185 million settlement over the creation of some 2 million fake accounts and 5,300 firings created a firestorm so great that the OCC told Congress it would launch an internal review over what went wrong.
Within the past few weeks, the OCC has removed its top Wells Fargo inspector from his duties monitoring the bank, a person familiar with the matter previously told CNNMoney. That examiner, Bradley Linskens, had been in charge of Wells Fargo since March 2014 and oversaw a team of 60 to 70 OCC employees, according to the source.
Wells Fargo declined to comment about the OCC's new findings.
"We made a number of mistakes, there's no question about it," Wells Fargo CEO Tim Sloan told CNN's Poppy Harlow this week. "We had an incentive compensation plan that drove inappropriate behavior."
Sloan said he's focused on "fixing what was broken" and "making things right" with customers and employees.
The OCC review may help explain how the Wells Fargo scandal was able to go on as long as it was. The massive investigation by Wells Fargo's board of directors found evidence of "mass terminations" related to improper sales tactics that went back to "at least 2002."
 Top federal Wells Fargo inspector removed
Regulators were apparently aware of hundreds of instances where employees spoke up about problems as well.
But the OCC "failed to document resolution of whistleblower cases," the OCC review found, adding that these early warnings were not properly researched, analyzed or resolved.
When OCC examiners asked Tolstedt about the 700 cases of whistleblower complaints "related to gaming of incentive plans" in 2010, she downplayed the issue, according to the OCC.
The report said Tolstedt claimed that the "high number of complaints" was the result of a culture that "encourages" complaints that are "investigated and appropriately addressed."
The Wells Fargo board report too had similarly concluded that Tolstedt "resisted and impeded scrutiny" and even "minimized the scale and nature of problems."
Tolstedt also told the OCC that Wells Fargo's incentive programs are "capped" at 10% to 20% of total cash compensation "to keep motivation in check," the OCC said.
In addition to the post-mortem on its supervision of Wells Fargo, the OCC is still carrying out a review of sales tactics by other large national banks to look for potential problems.
"That review is underway and we will not be commenting on the ongoing supervisory work," an OCC spokesman said in a statement.
And last month Trump vowed to end "the war on coal" by canceling "job-killing regulations" and putting miners back to work.
It's true that there are a lot fewer jobs in steel and coal than there used to be in the United States. But those industries are being battered by a lot more than foreign imports and cumbersome government rules.
In fact, they are being eroded by long-term changes in the economy, and in the industries themselves, that won't be reversed by any piece of paper Trump can sign.
 Despite trump promises, Keystone pipeline won't have to use American steel
About 300,000 steel mill jobs have disappeared in the last 40 years, a 70% drop.
American steel is facing tougher competition from foreign producers, such as those in China. About 25% of the steel used in the United States last year came from foreign sources. That's one reason the industry cheered Trump's executive order on government contracts.
But infrastructure accounts for a relatively small amount of the nation's steel consumption -- a bit less than 10%, according to the American Iron and Steel Institute, the industry trade group.
And foreign competition is nothing new for the steel industry. Imports have never fallen below 15% of the U.S. market in the last 40 years. Most years they have accounted for 20% or more.
 Coal country's message to Trump - We want jobs of the future
The large American mills that turn iron ore and other raw materials into steel face more competition from domestic "mini-mills," which melt scrap steel into steel products, than they do from overseas.
Traditional steel mills accounted for nearly 80% of domestic production 40 years ago. Today they have only about a third. Beleaguered steel towns have more to worry about than a mill halfway across the globe.
Steel jobs are being lost to improved technology that has made steelmaking far more efficient. In the early 1980s, it took 10 hours of work to produce a ton of steel. Today it take less than two hours, according to industry figures.
 Trump move to roll back climate rules won't bring coal or mining jobs
Coal mining jobs, meanwhile, have also fallen 70% since 1985, a loss of 120,000 jobs.
The coal industry has lost much of its customer base not because of regulations but because natural gas production has soared, pushing down the price of that cleaner source of electrical power.
In addition, falling costs for green energy, such as solar and wind power, have cut the demand for coal. So has a move by overseas markets, like China, to shift away from coal in an attempt to clean up badly polluted air.
"There are a lot of market forces already driving the utility industry towards cleaner energy," said Kevin Rennert, visiting fellow with Resources for the Future, a Washington think tank concentrating on energy issues. Getting rid of rules to combat global warming "doesn't change that," he said.
The good news is that those industries have produced a jobs boom of their own that has dwarfed the jobs losses in coal mines. In January, the U.S. Energy Department estimated that solar power today accounts for 373,000 jobs, while wind power accounts for an additional 101,000.
--CNN's Kevin Liptak contributed to this report.
After the ferocious Trump rally lifted U.S. stocks to record highs, fund managers have also become more cautious about Wall Street. Their allocation to U.S. stocks has plunged to the lowest level since January 2008, according to the BofA survey that was released on Wednesday.
"Investors are showing love for Europe and scrambling out of U.S. equities," Michael Hartnett, BofA's chief investment strategist, wrote in the report.
The problem they have with Wall Street is that stocks have become expensive. All told, 83% of fund managers think the U.S. market is the most "overvalued" region in the world, the highest level in the 17-year history of the survey.
But is now the most prudent time to rush headfirst into Europe?
 French candidate wants a 100% tax on the rich
Eurozone stocks have retreated about 2% this month amid apprehension over the radical ideas endorsed by leading candidates in France's presidential election. The first round of voting in this race takes place on April 23 and the top two candidates are set to square off in a second round on May 7.
The matchup features one far-right candidate, Marine Le Pen, who wants France to dump the euro. Such a move could call into question the entire existence of the common currency, a move that would lead to volatility in global financial markets.
Another surging candidate, socialist Jean-Luc Melenchon, is pushing for a 100% tax on income above $425,000 and for France to leave NATO, the IMF and the World Trade Organization.
"There is a great deal of concern that from a market perspective we could have two bad candidates to choose from in the second round," said Erin Browne, head of macro investing at UBS O'Connor, a hedge fund division inside the Swiss bank.
Browne warned that the French election could spark trouble in the European banking system that creates a "fairly significant risk-off event across markets."
 Global fears give Wall Street pause
Despite those concerns, investors have been lured into European stocks by hopes that a rebound in corporate profits there will make current low valuations look cheap in retrospect.
BofA said cash is rotating out of U.S. stocks and into the eurozone at one of the fastest clips since 1999.
"Although we agree on the allure of Europe's earnings recovery, complacency looks extremely high," Ronan Carr, BofA's European equity strategist, wrote.
The picture could clear up after the French presidential election.
"If we were to take away the French elections, or they go well, European assets are a great place to buy right now. You just need to be careful about the geopolitical risks," Browne said.
Of course, political risk exists in the U.S., too.
The Trump rally was built on expectations that Republican control of the executive and legislative branches would lead to quick and sweeping tax reform that would lift corporate profits and stimulate the economy.
But deep divisions within the GOP have forced Wall Street to dial back those hopes. Even Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin told the Financial Times this week that a deal on tax reform is unlikely by the August recess deadline he previously set.
BofA said only 5% of investors surveyed now expect tax reform before the summer recess, but almost half anticipate a deal before the end of the year.
"The market was overly optimistic about the timing of tax cuts," said UBS's Browne. Still, she said a package of tax cuts and modest reform is "realistically achievable" by the first quarter of 2018.
--CNNMoney's Ivana Kottasova contributed to this report
Laffer thinks that's the wrong move. Laffer advised Trump during the campaign. He's an informal counselor now, but he's telling everyone in the White House who will listen to do what the Reagan team did: break up tax reform into small bits instead of trying to cram it all into one huge bill.
The easy win would be cutting business taxes, Laffer argues. It could even be done by August (the original deadline the White House set for action on taxes but has since backed away from).
"There's no one who thinks a 35% federal corporate tax rate is appropriate," Laffer says. He notes the U.S. has the highest tax rate on businesses out of any major economy in the world.
Trump proposed slashing business taxes to 15% on the campaign trail. Republican House Speaker Paul Ryan has pushed for a 20% top rate on business.
 Bush's top economist: Trump should get moving on tax cuts
Republican economists tell Trump: Cut taxes ASAP
There's a loud chorus of right-leaning economists telling Trump to drop health care and move on to tax cuts. In an Op-Ed in the New York Times on Wednesday, four of Trump's top economic advisers from the campaign -- Laffer, Steve Forbes, Larry Kudlow and Stephen Moore (a CNN contributor) -- wrote, "Tax reform probably should have gone first, but now is the time to move it forward with urgency."
The Op-Ed comes on the heels of Glenn Hubbard, President George W. Bush's top economist, giving Trump that same advice back in March.
It's notable though that Goldman Sachs (GS), the Wall Street firm that used to employ several of Trump's top advisers, now predicts tax cuts are "likely to slip to early 2018."
The chorus of GOP economists says Trump should enact business tax cuts in 2017 and then tax reform for individuals in 2018.
 Trump's new problem: Americans aren't shopping
Arthur Laffer says: Cut taxes but don't cut spending yet

Laffer says the only reason Trump wants to tackle health care first is because overhauling Obamacare could generate more money for the U.S. Treasury. However, he argues Congress and the White House should stop obsessing about having tax cuts "paid for." That would mean tax cuts do not add anything to America's $19 trillion debt.
"The 'pay for rule' is the silliest rule I have ever heard in my life," Laffer says. "You cannot balance the budget in the U.S. without growth."
Laffer is telling Trump to cut taxes now and keep government spending about the same. The Trump Administration doesn't appear to be heeding that advice. The White House is mulling deep cuts to the federal budget in order to fund an increase in military spending.
"Do not cut government spending right away. Wait until tax cuts have their effect on economic growth," Laffer cautions.
 Are Americans lazy? CNNMoney readers weigh in
How to revive Trump's approval rating
Trump's approval rating is just 41%, according to Gallup. That's actually up from 35% a few weeks ago. But Laffer says Reagan faced something just as bad in his early years in the White House.
"Our first two years were a disaster," Laffer says of the Reagan administration. He believes Trump will rebound if he gets back on track with tax cuts. "People criticized Reagan non-stop. Reagan made gaffes as well."
President Reagan's approval rating did hit a low of 35% as well, but that didn't happen until 1983, two years into Reagan's first term. During his first 100 days in office, Reagan had an approval rating of almost 70%.

The Kansas warning sign?
Laffer is a big champion of cutting taxes to spur growth. He's often called the father of "supply-side economics" for his research on how cutting taxes can actually bring the government more revenue.
But Laffer's theories have come under heavy criticism lately. Many point to Kansas, a state that cut taxes in 2012 and has since faced massive budget shortfalls and a floundering economy, as proof that Laffer is wrong.
Laffer says the real problem in Kansas is that Republican Governor Sam Brownback didn't go far enough.
"The tax cut was too small. It was a rounding error," Laffer told CNNMoney.
His theory was that it took fewer workers in Portugal, a country with a long history of wine making, to make wine than it does to make cloth in that country. And it took fewer workers to make cloth in England, a textile powerhouse at the time, than to produce wine there.
Thus, Portugal should export its wine to England, while England should export cloth to Portugal. Workers weren't the only factor. Other considerations were equipment, skills and the value of currencies.
 IMF warns world leaders not to erect trade barriers
The idea in a nut shell: Focus on your biggest advantages and sell them to other countries.
Ricardo called it "comparative advantage."
The main concept: You focus on the products you're most efficient at making and ship them to other countries. Then other countries focus on what they're most productive at making and export those products to you.
"The idea of comparative advantage has been an essential part of every economists' intellectual toolkit," Dartmouth professor and former Reagan trade adviser Doug Irwin wrote in a blog post Wednesday.
The same concept is true today in the U.S. economy.
Consider this example: the U.S. is a leader in manufacturing airplanes. Boeing (BA) exports its jets to countries and airlines around the world.
 Fed: Pulling out of NAFTA would hurt U.S. companies
For instance, Boeing sells planes to Avianca, the Colombian airline. Colombia doesn't have much of an airplane manufacturing industry. But Colombia does have a robust coffee industry. And Americans love coffee.
So, Ricardo's theory plays out on a very basic level in this interaction -- the U.S. imports loads of coffee from Colombia while Colombia buys U.S.-made planes.
More broadly, Ricardo's idea plays out across the global economy. The strength of the U.S. is largely in services like education and it has a trade surplus in services with the world. Mexico produces goods like car parts and it has a goods surplus with the U.S. and many other nations.
The problem in Trump's view is that Mexico, for instance, is selling more goods to the U.S. than the U.S. is selling to Mexico. That creates a trade deficit. Trump wants to eliminate that, but hasn't shared any details on how he would do it.
Ricardo's timeless theory could be tested again when the Trump administration renegotiates NAFTA, the free trade deal with Mexico and Canada, this year.
The U.S. though, with its Napa and Sonoma Valleys, does have at least one notable, comparative advantage over Mexico and Canada: Wine.
Dunkin' (DNKN) says it will offer its drinks on Amtrak's lower-priced Northeast Regional trains later this year.
On Acela trains, Dunkin' says its coffee will be available all day in first class and in the cafe car. The coffee will be brewed using the same equipment that Dunkin' Donuts uses at its stores.
Amtrak says the Acela Express has seen "significant growth" in revenue and market share over the past several years. The trains had 2.4 million customers in 2002.
This comes one day after its direct downtown rival Goldman Sachs (GS) disappointed Wall Street with lackluster results, sending its stock tumbling 5%.
And other banks, most notably Bank of America (BAC) and JPMorgan Chase (JPM), recently reported solid quarterly results too.
Morgan Stanley did particularly well in its bond trading unit. Revenue from fixed-income trading nearly doubled from a year ago.
Morgan Stanley chairman and CEO James Gorman said it was one of the "strongest quarters in recent years" for the company and that the bank remained confident even though "the environment remains uncertain."
Gorman didn't elaborate on what exactly was so uncertain. But concerns about the Trump administration's ability to push through infrastructure spending and tax reform plans through Congress have the potential to weigh on Morgan Stanley and other banks.
Trump had called for Congress to undo much of the Dodd-Frank financial reform laws. It is now uncertain whether that will get done anytime soon though. As such, many bank stocks have pulled back sharply from their post-election highs.
But Gorman seemed confident that changes will still eventually be made to Dodd-Frank.
He told analysts during the company's conference call Wednesday morning that "it is hard to imagine the regulatory burden increasing from this point forward and some of the policy proposals being floated make good common sense."
Turmoil in Europe, where worries about the rising tide of populism in the wake of Brexit and upcoming French elections, also has made some investors nervous.
 House GOP bill would give Trump greater power over Wall Street
Morgan Stanley CFO Jonathan Pruzan noted that European elections could impact the environment for new stock and bond offerings, which could hurt Morgan Stanley's underwriting businesses.
Morgan Stanley was one of the leading underwriters of this year's initial public offering of Snapchat parent company Snap Inc. (SNAP)
Still, Pruzan remained hopeful that demand for IPOs should remain healthy despite some concerns about more market volatility.
Investors clearly aren't worried either. Morgan Stanley's stock has outperformed Goldman Sachs this year -- and it has done so since the November presidential election and over the past 12 months as well.
Morgan Stanley's stock is now back in positive territory for 2017 thanks to its rally on Wednesday. Goldman Sachs shares are down 10%, putting it in a virtual three-way tie with oil giants Chevron (CVX) and Exxon Mobil (XOM) as the worst Dow stocks of 2017.
So even though Goldman Sachs has more friends in high places, it doesn't seem as if that's translating into a boost to its bottom line just yet. Morgan Stanley, on the other hand, is just chugging along -- and winning approval from Wall Street in the process.
Emirates and the other Gulf carriers, Etihad Airways and Qatar Airways, have been in the firing line of new U.S. policies on immigration and security.
Trump signed a revised executive order last month banning citizens of six Muslim-majority countries from entry. It was struck down by the courts, but the U.S. administration said it will appeal the decision.
 Qatar Airways CEO: Laptop ban doesn't make flying safer
Following the travel ban, the U.S. slapped 9 airlines flying from 10 airports in the Middle East and North Africa -- including the three Gulf carriers -- with an order prohibiting larger electronic devices in the cabin of aircraft.
Emirates allows passengers to check in their devices at the gate and offers loaner laptops to premium travelers. But that hasn't prevented a fall in the number of people wanting to fly with the airline to the U.S.
"Over the past three months, we have seen a significant deterioration in the booking profiles on all our U.S routes, across all travel segments," Emirates said in a statement.
"The recent actions taken by the U.S. government relating to the issuance of entry visas, heightened security vetting, and restrictions on electronic devices in aircraft cabins, have had a direct impact on consumer interest and demand for air travel into the U.S."
 Trump's travel policies hurting 'U.S. brand' and discouraging visitors
The Gulf airlines have enjoyed rapid growth in their U.S. operations in recent years.
Delta Air (DAL), United Airlines (UAL) and American Airlines (AAL) have repeatedly complained that state subsidies have given the Gulf carriers an unfair advantage. Emirates, Etihad and Qatar Airways all deny the accusation.
The American carriers want the U.S. government to review the Open Skies agreements that allow their Gulf rivals to fly freely from the United Arab Emirates and Qatar to any U.S. destination.
Speaking to CNNMoney last month, Emirates President Tim Clark rejected suggestions that the U.S. may have introduced the electronics ban as a way of hurting the American carriers' big rivals.
But Emirates isn't the only one feeling the pain. Qatar Airways has also been hit by the U.S. restrictions.
CEO Akbar Al Baker told CNNMoney it had seen a drop in demand, but bookings were only down by less than 10 per flight. Al Baker said the electronics ban would not make flying to the U.S. any safer.
But Wells Fargo's CEO Tim Sloan now has a message for his distrustful employees.
"It is safe to call the ethics line," Sloan told CNN's Poppy Harlow in an exclusive interview this week. Sloan wants to reassure employees they won't face retribution for flagging any unethical behavior they see at the embattled bank.
As the newly-appointed CEO, he is now in charge of cleaning up the scandal that ensued over creating some 2 million fake accounts and firing 5,300 workers.
Sloan insisted that even "one instance of retaliation" is "completely unacceptable."
 Listen to Poppy's entire Wells Fargo interview
After hearing about Wells Fargo (WFC) workers who say their lives were turned upside down by retaliation, Sloan said he thought about the problem in personal terms "not necessarily as a CEO...but as a father."
"The lens that I use is, 'Would I be comfortable if our sons or daughter or daughters-in-law called the ethics line if they worked at Wells Fargo and they had a problem?'" Sloan said. "And the short answer is yes."
Sloan has two sons and a daughter, all Millennials, none of whom work at Wells Fargo.
The Wells Fargo boss said the bank brought in a law firm to look at "hundreds of cases" where an employee called the ethics line and identified him or herself to see if they were fired or punished in any way within 12 months.
"We've gotten it down to a handful that we're spending more time looking at. If it turns out that we were in error, we will fix it with that team member," Sloan said.
But workers have lost a lot more than their jobs. Some whistleblowers have said their firings from Wells Fargo led to severe stress, anxiety and even the loss of their homes.
"They ruined my life," Bill Bado, who was fired from Wells Fargo eight days after sending an email to human resources about fake accounts, previously told CNNMoney.
Sloan declined to specify how these former workers' situations will be fixed, simply saying it "depends on the situation for that team member."
 The damning 2004 report Wells Fargo chose to ignore
Wells Fargo's independent directors launched an exhaustive investigation last fall after the bank admitted to the misdeeds that went on for several years.
That probe, released last week, said that a "limited review" by a law firm "has not identified a pattern of retaliation" against the bank's employees.
But the 110-page report did say that "many employees felt that failing to meet sales goals could (and sometimes did) result in termination."
Sloan admitted that Wells Fargo's unrealistic sales goals were wrong and should have been eliminated earlier. Even Warren Buffett, the bank's leading shareholder, has said Wells Fargo made a "terrible mistake" by keeping in place sales goals that "corrupted people."
Now, Wells Fargo is reaching out to employees who left the bank "because they were uncomfortable" with the sales goals, the bank's culture or who were fired for "not meeting certain goals," according to Sloan.
The CEO said Wells Fargo has hired back roughly 1,000 former employees who may fit into those categories.
"We want those folks to come back to Wells Fargo," he said.
However, Sloan emphasized that the 5,300 fired employees -- workers that Wells Fargo says used sales tactics that violated the rules -- are not welcome back.
Of course, at least some of those 5,300 workers would argue they were trying to keep their job by meeting the unreasonable sales goals set by senior management.
"If you violate our code of ethics when you break the law, you can't work at Wells Fargo," Sloan said.
Before voting began Sunday, the contest had narrowed to a four-way race between candidates from across the political spectrum. Two of them -- far right politician Marine Le Pen and socialist Jean-Luc Melenchon proposed radical ideas on how to improve the economy. Both oppose free trade agreements and are highly critical of the euro.
Melenchon crashed out in Sunday's vote but Le Pen came second and now faces centrist reformer Emmanuel Macron in the run-off. But will either of them have the right prescription to cure France?
 Macron-Le Pen face-off: EU supporter vs economic nationalist
After years of slow growth, the country's GDP figures are finally turning higher. But they remain at very low levels.
The French economy expanded by 1.2% in 2016, according to the International Monetary Fund. The two larger economies in Europe -- Germany and the U.K. -- posted growth of 1.8% over the same period.

The IMF predicts growth of just 1.4% for France in 2017, one of the weakest rates in the EU.
Europe's lost generation: Young, educated and unemployed
France is also struggling to bring down its unemployment rate, which stands at roughly 10%. That's higher than the eurozone average and more than double the level of joblessness in Germany and Britain.

The unemployment problem is even worse for young people: 24% of those between the ages of 15 and 24 don't have a job.
Government debt, meanwhile, has ballooned to almost 90% of GDP, up from just 58% a decade ago.

There are a few bright spots, however. France has relatively low income inequality and fewer of its citizens are at risk of poverty than in Germany or the U.K.

The percentage of GDP that the government spends on social programs and welfare is much higher in France than other major economies.

The generous welfare system has led to higher budget deficits, however, and the French healthcare system is in desperate need of more cash. The IMF has called for economic reforms to bring public spending under control.
 America's undocumented immigrant workforce has stopped growing
But why would millions of undocumented immigrants file their tax returns if they could easily fly under the radar?
"First of all, it's the law," said Jose Magaña-Salgado, a policy attorney at the Immigrant Legal Resource Center. "And these undocumented immigrants are trying to abide by the law and are fulfilling their civic and financial responsibilities."
Should they ever go before an immigration judge, it will also help their case.
Magaña-Salgado said judges tend to look more favorably upon immigrants who have a history of filing and paying their taxes. "Filing taxes helps to build a record of existence here in the United States if they are facing permanent deportation hearings," he said.
Many undocumented immigrants are also seeking to get a refund.
"Whether someone is documented or not, it doesn't mean that they shouldn't avail themselves to the tax laws of the U.S.," Magaña-Salgado said. "And if they are due a refund, it's because they paid more than their income required."
In order to file for a federal tax return, undocumented immigrants need to apply for an Individual Taxpayer Identification Number (ITIN) from the Internal Revenue Service.
The IRS issues these numbers to individuals who must file taxes, but don't possess or aren't eligible for a Social Security number. ITINs are issued to people regardless of their immigration status. An ITIN doesn't give a person legal work authorization and doesn't provide eligibility for Social Security benefits, according to the IRS website.
 How much it costs ICE to deport an undocumented immigrant
But an ITIN will help an undocumented immigrant get a refund if they are owed one, no questions asked, said Steve Choi, executive director of the New York Immigration Coalition. "Same as they pay taxes if they owe, no questions asked," he said.
For the most part, undocumented immigrants don't need to fear that their tax information will be shared with federal immigration enforcement agencies.
According to the National Immigration Law Center, the IRS is generally prohibited from disclosing taxpayer information, even to other federal agencies.
However, certain exceptions apply.
For example, the IRS is required to disclose taxpayer information to certain U.S. Treasury Department employees when they request it for tax administration purposes or to other federal agencies if it's needed for a criminal investigation and a federal court has issued an order that it be provided, NILC said on it's website.
The threat to the euro is most acute in France, where people will vote Sunday in the final round of a presidential election that features Marine Le Pen. The far right politician wants France to abandon the currency union.
The euro, the currency of 19 EU countries, is the most visible symbol of the region's long experiment with economic integration since the end of World War II.
But it's now under threat from politicians on both the left and right who want to bring the lira, drachma, peseta and French franc out of retirement.
Here's why some Europeans want to kill the euro:
'Europe is not a nation'

For Alberto Bagnai, the case against the currency boils down to this: European countries are not the same, and so they shouldn't use the same currency.
"The basic point is that you cannot have a federal state among citizens from countries with such a different cultural past," said the Italian academic. "Without a European state, you cannot have European money."
Some European countries are richer, some are poorer, like American states. But unlike the U.S., the eurozone does not have a central government to decide on spending, tax and budget policies.
"The U.S. is a nation, there is a sense of common identity," he said.
That's not true in Europe, where there's little prospect of political unity because wealthier nations such as Germany would end up transferring money permanently to the less fortunate.
"Germany does not want this," said Bagnai. "We should stop telling fairy tales."
'Optical illusion'
Such deep divisions were not always so apparent.
The interest rates that Spain, Greece and Italy needed to pay creditors plummeted after they joined the euro -- putting them on a par with Germany.
"Investors looked at nominal interest rates and thought the Greeks have become German," said Bagnai. "It was kind of an optical illusion."
Then the financial crisis hit, and cracks in the monetary union began to show.

In Spain, policymakers weren't able to make the euro cheaper to counter the collapse of a property bubble and debt crisis.
Instead, Madrid was forced to reduce spending and implement an austerity program -- and that hit living standards.
"The 20% unemployment we now have in Spain is a direct result of the euro," said the economist Cutillas.
 Europe's lost generation: Young, educated and unemployed

Cutillas said that many people in Spain, which endured decades of violent dictatorship under Francisco Franco, support the euro because it's associated with progress, modernity and peace. That isn't enough for the economist.
"It's nice to be able to travel around easily and have easy means of payment, but these advantages shouldn't cover what's happening with the euro," he said.

A Greek tragedy
Greece is a prime example of the division between wealthy northern European countries and weaker economies on the continent's periphery.
Facing a debt crisis of its own, Athens agreed to drastic austerity programs in exchange for repeated bailouts. Salaries, pensions and government spending have all been cut dramatically.
Fotis Panagiotopoulos, a dock worker at the Athens Port Authority, experienced the consequences first hand.
His salary has dropped 50% since the beginning of the Greek crisis in 2010. His wife can't find a stable job.
"What we are experiencing in Greece is slow death," he said. "There is no way out unless we break free from this debt cycle."
Panagiotopoulos wants Greece to ditch the euro and start over.
"We just want to make sure that we, and our children, can have a decent future," he said. "With the euro, I don't see how this is possible."

Ireland's 'euro-bubble'
Remember the Celtic Tiger? Ireland boomed in the euro's early years, growing on average 6.5% a year between 1999 and 2007.
Keith Redmond, a dentist and local politician in Dublin, looks back on those days with fear.
"It wasn't a boom. It was a bubble ... a euro-currency bubble," he said.
Redmond argues that without control over its interest rates, Ireland wasn't able to cool the bubble.
When it burst, it brought the Irish banking system to the brink of collapse. Ireland was forced to slash spending.
Ireland has turned the corner and its economy is growing again. But for Redmond, the euro remains a problem.
"The fundamental flaw is still there ... this can all happen again. We have no flexibility in our monetary system to deal with a shock," he said.

French nationalism
Vincent Brousseau is a French economist. But for him, the trouble with the euro is not about the economics.
Instead, he sees the common currency as a threat to France's national sovereignty.
"It's not French," he said of the currency. "It doesn't matter whether it's overvalued or undervalued... this is about making our own decisions."
He's had a major change of heart. Brousseau worked for the European Central Bank until a few years ago.
"When I started at the ECB, I believed there could be one Europe, I was a convinced European," he said.
But he gradually changed his opinion over the 15 years he spent at the central bank that sets a common interest rate for all 19 eurozone countries.
"I realized that transferring sovereignty from France to the European superstate is not good for the country," said Brousseau, who now oversees economic and monetary policy at French political party UPR.
 The euro cannot survive unless Europe changes
What's next
Opponents of the euro disagree on what should happen next.
Redmond would like to see the currency split into two. The current euro would be used by Germany, Netherlands and other economically stronger countries. A second, weaker euro, would be introduced for Portugal, Italy, Ireland, Greece and Spain.
Brousseau wants France to completely drop the euro and bring back the franc. He's not a fan of the the compromises proposed by Le Pen, who has suggested that a new pan-European currency could be used in parallel to the franc.
In Italy, Bagnai thinks the end of the euro is an inevitability.
"We know that the project could last for a decade, perhaps, but it's going to end. And the sooner it ends the better."
-- Elinda Labropoulou and Maud Le Rest contributed reporting.
American Express (AXP) will report after the closing bell. The payments giant could provide clues into whether increased consumer confidence after the election has translated into more aggressive spending by American shoppers.
2. Pound hangover: The British pound slipped lower against the U.S. dollar on Wednesday, but still held above $1.28.
The pound climbed over 2.5% on Tuesday after Prime Minister Theresa May called for an early election on June 8.
May will appear in parliament on Wednesday to answer questions from lawmakers.
Analysts say the election is likely to strengthen May's political position ahead of Brexit talks with the European Union.
The FTSE 100 retreated for a second straight session on Wednesday. Many of the multinationals that make up the index do business in foreign currencies and those earnings are worth less when the pound rises.
3. French election thriller: The French presidential election is heating up ahead of a first round vote on Sunday. Four leading candidates are fighting for two spots in a runoff scheduled for May 7.
Investors are worried about two candidates in particular: far right politician Marine Le Pen and Jean-Luc Melenchon, who has been endorsed by the French Communist Party. Both are hostile to the euro.
The difference in yields on French and German government bonds is now the largest it's been since February, suggesting that investors see French debt as a substantially riskier proposition than German.
4. Global market overview: U.S. stock futures were higher on Wednesday.
European markets were mixed. Markets in Germany and France opened higher.
Most Asian markets ended the day lower.
The Dow Jones industrial average shed 0.6% on Tuesday, while the S&P 500 declined 0.3% and the Nasdaq lost 0.1%.
Before the Bell newsletter: Key market news. In your inbox. Subscribe now!
5. Earnings and economics: eBay (EBAY) and Kinder Morgan (KMI) will release their earnings after the close.
IBM (IBM, Tech30) was nearly 5% lower in premarket trading after releasing disappointing results on Tuesday.
The latest U.S. crude inventories data will be released by the Energy Information Administration at 10:30 a.m. ET.
Download CNN MoneyStream for up-to-the-minute market data and news
6. Coming this week:
Wednesday - U.S. Crude oil inventories report, Morgan Stanley (MS), BlackRock (BLK), eBay (EBAY), American Express (AXP) publish results Thursday - Mattel (MAT) earnings report Friday - U.S. release of Samsung's (SSNLF) Galaxy S8
MH370 vanished from radar during a flight from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing and is believed to have crashed in the Indian Ocean. The Boeing 777's disappearance sparked a search of unprecedented scale, prompting a global debate about consistent standards for aircraft tracking.
 Here's what's been found from MH370 three years after it disappeared
"Real-time global aircraft tracking has long been a goal of the aviation community," Malaysia Airlines Chief Operating Officer Capt. Izham Ismail said in the statement. "We are proud to be the first airline to adopt this solution."
The new partnership -- with Aireon, FlightAware and SITAONAIR -- will ensure the airline has access to space-based tracking data for every minute of a flight's journey. The new system is expected to come online next year.
"Malaysia Airlines will know the location, heading, speed and altitude of all aircraft in its fleet, at all times, and be alerted to any exceptions," Paul Gibson of SITAONAIR said in the statement.
Many companies have been jockeying to supply airlines with global tracking systems, including Rockwell Collins (COL) and Inmarsat (IMASF).
 MH370: Could a plane vanish again?
The disappearance of Flight 370 remains one of the world's biggest aviation mysteries and its exact crash site has yet to be located.
It's unclear if the new satellite-tracking system would have made a difference, though.
MH370's transponder, which broadcasts the jet's position and identity to air traffic control, stopped communicating while over the Gulf of Thailand. The Aircraft Communications Addressing and Reporting System, also known as ACARS, which transmits small data messages to the airline to a ground network or satellites, also stopped communicating.
The extended inquiry has investigated whether the communications were intentionally switched off by someone aboard the aircraft, but no conclusion has been reached.
 Timeline of MH370 disappearance
In the absence of those systems, investigators have had to rely on obscure satellite data to piece together Flight 370's possible path to the southern Indian Ocean.
If flights are tracked with updates every minute, it would make it much easier to locate an aircraft if it crashes in a remote part of the world.
Even with 60 second updates, the precision of a search would be far greater than in the case of MH370.
The International Civil Aviation Organization has mandated that an aircraft must transmit its position once every 15 minutes by November 2018. That will drop to once every minute by 2021 if the aircraft is in distress.
The beverage "is made with a sweet dusting of pink powder, blended into a crème Frappuccino with mango syrup and layered with a pleasantly sour blue drizzle," according to a company release. "It is finished with vanilla whipped cream and a sprinkle of sweet pink and sour blue powder topping."
That's not all. The drink starts out purple with blue swirls and tastes sweet and fruity. But if you stir it then it becomes pink, tangy and tart, Starbucks says.
 Starbucks to add 240,000 jobs worldwide by 2021
"The elusive unicorn from medieval legend has been making a comeback," the company said. " ... Now Starbucks is taking the trend to a new level."
It's not the first time Starbucks has jumped on a craze. The company rolled out limited-edition Pokémon Go Frappuccinos last December and has launched a vampire-themed Frappula Frappuccino around Halloween.
For the health-conscious among us: A tall Unicorn Frappuccino made with whole milk and topped with whipped cream contains 280 calories, 11 grams of fat and 39 grams of sugar, according to a Starbucks spokesperson. The beverage, which doesn't contain coffee, is caffeine free.
Today, Cordray and Mel Watt, the director of the FHFA, could only be ousted from their role "for inefficiency, neglect of duty, or malfeasance in office." It's rare for presidents to try to remove an official even with for-cause protections.
The bill, called the Financial Choice Act, would also give Congress purview over the CFPB's budget, meaning lawmakers could defund the agency entirely.
Hensarling's bill would do more than simply reshape how Wall Street is regulated. It would also give the president greater authority over a number of the agencies aimed at protecting the U.S. financial system, aiding consumers and slapping fines on wrongdoers.
"Making the CFPB director subject to the whims of the president would be a first of its kind action to centralize banking regulatory power solely in the hands of the president and would eliminate the independence long established by Congress," Gregg Gelzinis, a special assistant for economic policy at the Center for American Progress, a left-leaning think tank, wrote in a report released Wednesday.
And while it's unlikely the Texas Republican's bill would become law as proposed, it will help to shape the new regulatory landscape under President Trump.
 GOP vows to offer Dodd-Frank overhaul by end of month
Critics say bill would let White House 'micromanage'
Trump has remained steadfast in maintaining his pledge to do a "major elimination of the horrendous" Dodd-Frank regulations. The White House could reshape bank rules through legislation or by appointing top officials who are likely to slash regulation.
Democrats and financial reformers immediately objected to the proposal.
"This latest bill will wind up making regulators weaker than they were before the crisis," Marcus Stanley, executive director of Americans for Financial Reform, a group that fought to protect Obama-era rules told CNNMoney. "It's definitely a shift toward empowering the White House to micromanage consumer protections and enforcement actions."
Policymakers took steps to protect regulators from political pressure and from being heavily influenced by the industries they regulate.
The heads of agencies like the Comptroller of the Currency and the CFPB are nominated by the president, and then confirmed by the Senate. Terms vary based on agency. For example, the chair of the Federal Reserve is nominated for a four-year term. Those agency chiefs don't serve at the pleasure of the president like the Treasury secretary.
Regulatory agencies created by Congress were also designed to be independent. While they must regularly testify before lawmakers, their budgets are typically not subject to congressional approval.
"Congress created agencies to meet two goals of being independent and accountable," said Michael Barr, a law professor at the University of Michigan and a key member of the Obama administration team that drafted Dodd-Frank. "The Financial Choice Act is a move away from independence, and that can lead to significant ramifications." Barr is among several individuals who have submitted briefs supporting the CFPB in a recent federal appeals court case that disputes the constitutionality of Cordray's appointment.
 Trump promises to help bankers 'petrified' of regulators
Policymakers must balance oversight and independence
There is a legitimate debate over striking the proper balance between congressional oversight and independence when designing regulatory agencies, Lawrence White, an economics professor at New York University says.
"I don't think there's a clear approach to be favored one way or the other," said White, who was also a former board member of the Federal Home Loan Banks under the Reagan administration.
The Republican bill specifically targets the CFPB, which GOP lawmakers have labeled a "runaway agency." Their chief complaint is that it has consistently exceeded its authority by acting as a "legislator, prosecutor, judge and jury all rolled into one," as Hensarling recently described it.
GOP lawmakers have repeatedly questioned the constitutionality of Cordray's appointment by former President Obama, and have pointed to the fact that his term as director has exceeded the five-year limit envisioned by Congress.
The Republicans' bill would restrict the agency's ability to enforce only existing laws and remove its authority to crack down on "unfair or deceptive acts or practices."
Cordray has said Republican proposals aimed at weakening the CFPB's independence would be a mistake.
"Congress did a good thing in 2010, and it's very important to have an independent watchdog looking out for consumers where it's typically not a fair fight when they're in a struggle with a large financial company," said Cordray during the same hearing in April.
 House Republican - President Trump, fire CFPB Director
The CFPB isn't the only Republican target
The GOP proposal would bar the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. from overseeing the so-called living will process, which requires banks to write up plans on how they would safely be unwound in the event of a collapse. The FDIC and the Fed are the two regulators responsible for overseeing this requirement under the 2010 law.
The GOP plan would make it easier for Wall Street to overturn regulations. And it would force policymakers to study the benefits of regulations, including Dodd-Frank, versus their costs.
Hensarling's bill would allow banks to run their own stress tests instead of putting the responsibility in the hands of regulators, a requirement that was instituted under Dodd-Frank. It would also revise how often banks would have to undergo a separate stress test by regulators from once every year to two.
The question is how long the momentum in China's heavily-indebted economy can last.
"Things are pretty strong at the moment, but it's going to be difficult to sustain this level of growth given how reliant it is on the state, which will have to pull back at some point," said Julian Evans-Pritchard, an economist at Capital Economics.
 China expects slower economic growth of about 6.5% this year
First-quarter growth was largely driven by high levels of government investment in infrastructure and a recovery in exports, according to Evans-Pritchard.
China's frothy real estate market also continued to fuel growth, as authorities' efforts to cool the sector have yet to fully kick in, analysts said.

China's ruling Communist Party has been prioritizing economic stability ahead of a key leadership reshuffle later this year when President Xi Jinping's second term in power will start.
But many experts fear that Beijing's efforts to boost growth today will come at a price during Xi's next term. Bank lending has soared, with debt growing at more than twice the rate of the underlying economy.
 World trade is making a comeback. Trump could spoil it
The International Monetary Fund and other agencies have urged the Chinese government to focus on tackling the country's high levels of corporate debt.
Doubt has frequently been cast on China's official growth statistics as a reliable measure of the country's economic performance. Some economists turn to proxy measures to gauge the health of the economy, looking at things like electricity output, freight shipments and seaport cargo volumes.
The official data's credibility took a further hit in January when the governor of one of the country's major industrial provinces admitted officials there had been falsely boosting economic data for years.
The Chinese government said last month that it's targeting growth of "around 6.5% or higher if possible" in 2017. The economy grew 6.7% last year.
Trump's 2016 tax returns will automatically be audited by the IRS, as is the case with all presidents' taxes.
2. United Airlines in a tailspin: The airline will release its quarterly earnings after the market close on Monday, just a week after becoming embroiled in a turbulent PR nightmare. It will hold a conference call with investors on Tuesday.
United's recent turmoil started when video surfaced of a passenger, Dr. David Dao, being dragged off a flight in Chicago.
The incident quickly went viral. On Tuesday, United shed $250 million off its market value. CEO Oscar Munoz initially said United (UAL) was sorry for having to "re-accommodate" customers, but later issued several statements explicitly apologizing for the way Dao was treated. Munoz has pledged to conduct a full review of the incident by April 30.
Dao's lawyer said Thursday he plans to sue United for damages. United has offered to reimburse passengers aboard the flight -- as long as they promise not to sue.
 United says Flight 3411 wasn't overbooked. It just had no open seats left
3. Samsung Galaxy S8 release: Americans will be able to buy a Samsung Galaxy S8 starting Friday. Samsung unveiled the highly-anticipated smartphone in New York last week. The S8 was supposed to feature a new digital assistant, Bixby, which is seen as a competitor to Apple's Siri. While some aspects of Bixby will be ready on Friday, it won't be fully operational until "later this spring," according to Samsung.
The Galaxy S8 will be larger than the S7 and S7 Edge and will have no home button. That's a first for Samsung, though other Android phones have already eliminated the home button.
The smartphone is expected to launch globally later this month. It's Samsung's first big rollout since its fire-prone Galaxy Note 7 debacle.
4. Netflix and big banks report earnings: Investors hope Netflix (NFLX, Tech30) will have no chill when it releases its quarterly report on Monday. Sales for last quarter are expected to clock in at $2.6 billion, up from $2 billion this time last year. Netflix wowed in January when it announced 7 million new users were added in the winter quarter of 2016. Netflix now has 93.8 million users total.
Goldman Sachs (GS) and Bank of America (BAC) will also release their earnings this week. Goldman is expected to report $8.56 billion in sales, while Bank of America is predicted to post $21.6 billion.
5. Coming this week:
Monday - Netflix (NFLX, Tech30), United Airlines (UAL) earnings Tuesday - Tax Day; Goldman Sachs (GS), Bank of America (BAC), Yahoo (YHOO, Tech30) and IBM (IBM, Tech30) earnings Thursday - Mattel (MAT) earnings Friday - U.S. release of Samsung's (SSNLF) Galaxy S8
-- Correction: An earlier version of this story gave an incorrect date for United Airlines' earnings report.
Trump has said that Americans "don't care at all" about his tax returns, but polls show 74% of Americans say he should release them.
On Sunday, Trump questioned why people are still interested in his tax returns after the election.
I did what was an almost an impossible thing to do for a Republican-easily won the Electoral College! Now Tax Returns are brought up again?

The president also suggested the demonstrators were paid to march, something the Trump administration has accused its critics of doing in the past.
Someone should look into who paid for the small organized rallies yesterday. The election is over!
Ezra Levin, one of the Tax March organizers, blasted Trump's allegation as a "bogus and flat out false tweet" in a statement Sunday.
The protestors took to the streets, Levin said, "because we deserve to know who Donald Trump answers to -- the American taxpayers or his private business interests and Russia?"
Many lawmakers, including some Republicans, have called on Trump to make his tax returns public. And a petition demanding that Trump release his returns has garnered more than 1 million signatures.
It's #TaxDay. But for thousands around the country, it's also #TaxMarch - citizens calling on @realDonaldTrump to show his taxes. @MSNBC pic.twitter.com/gjfeKqtCOF
Rather than "Hey hey, ho ho," anti-@realDonaldTrump protesters open w "No more secrets, no more lies" chant at West Palm Beach #TaxMarch pic.twitter.com/ZfGZ3Onyk2
#Denver #TaxMarch gathering underway @DenverChannel pic.twitter.com/Nezzq1aWhk

 What we'd learn if Trump would just release his tax returns
For the past 40 years, every U.S. president and presidential candidate has released tax documents.
Still, the White House has not indicated Trump has any intentions of releasing his returns. So Trump critics are prepared to make some noise.
"We march to demand that the president release his returns, as he has repeatedly promised, but failed, to do," the Tax March website reads. "We march because it is in the best interest of the American people to know what financial entanglements and conflicts of interest our leaders have."
Much like the "Pussyhats" symbolized the Women's March in January, the hallmark of Saturday's protest were giant inflatable chickens.
On Saturday morning, chickens could be spotted on the steps of the Capitol building and outside the Trump Hotel. Thirty-foot inflatable chickens will also go up at the marches in New York City and San Francisco, according to Kevin Donohoe, a Tax March organizer.
The inflatable chickens were designed in Hong Kong to celebrate the Year of the Rooster, and they were purposely made to resemble Trump this year. Organizers for Tax March San Francisco discovered the chicken and re-dubbed it "Chicken Don" to poke fun at the President for being too afraid to release his tax returns. Since then it's spread across the country with dozens of marches purchasing chickens, Donohoe said.
Also on Saturday, a demonstration in Berkeley, California, that brought out supporters and opponents of President Trump turned violent, resulting in more than a dozen arrests, officials said.
That rally was about free speech, according to local news reports. A couple people were injured, Berkeley Police spokesman Byron White told CNN.
--CNN's Paul Murphy, Tony Marco and Shawn Nottingham and CNNMoney's Jeanne Sahadi contributed to this report
 How companies screw up during a PR crisis
It's legal to bump a ticket-holding customer off of a flight -- but it's not customary to kick someone off a plane once he or she has boarded.
Had the commuting crew member been required to check in for the flight before passengers began boarding, United could have denied a customer boarding before he or she was seated.
"This [policy change] ensures situations like flight 3411 never happen again. This is one of our initial steps in a review of our policies in order to deliver the best customer experience," said United spokesperson Maggie Schmerin in a statement.
Earlier this week, United CEO Oscar Munoz said on ABC's "Good Morning America" that if the airline ever does need to boot a paying customer off a flight, law enforcement officers will no longer be involved.
 United offers to compensate passengers on Flight 3411
Nearly a week since the incident, United is still dealing with the backlash. Lawyers representing the passenger who was dragged off the plane, Dr. David Dao, have said he suffered a concussion and plans to file a lawsuit against the company.
Footage of the incident went viral, and United has since come under fire for how it responded. Initially, the company appeared to blame the Dao, calling him "belligerent" and claiming officers were "left with no choice" but to forcibly remove him. Video evidence later disputed that Dao was acting aggressively.
Lost Rivers has only one full-time doctor, and its emergency room has just three beds -- not much bigger than a summer camp infirmary. But within 90 minutes, hospital staff gave Rosenkrance a CT scan to check for a brain injury, took X-rays to look for broken bones and sewed her ear back together. The next morning, although the hospital has no pharmacist, she got a prescription for painkillers filled through a remote pharmacy service.
It was the kind of full-service medical treatment that might be expected of a hospital in a much larger town.
Not so long ago, providing such high-level care seemed impossible at Lost Rivers. In fact, it looked as if there wouldn't be a Lost Rivers at all. The 14-bed hospital serves all of Butte County, whose population of 2,501 is spread over a territory half the size of Connecticut.
"Bears outnumber people out here," is how hospital CEO Brad Huerta puts it.
The medical center nearly shut its doors in 2013, due in large part to the declining population of the area it serves.
But then the hospital got a dramatic reboot with new management, led by Huerta, who secured financing to help pay for more advanced technology, upgraded facilities and expanded services. If Lost Rivers had closed, the alternative would have been hospitals in Idaho Falls or Pocatello, each more than an hour away.
Rural hospitals are facing one of the great slow-moving crises in American health care. Across the U.S., they've been closing at a rate of about one per month since 2010 -- a total of 78 closures, or about 6%.
About 14% of the U.S. population lives in rural counties, a proportion that has dropped as the number of urban dwellers grows. Declining populations mean a smaller base of patients and less revenue. And because many patients in the countryside are older and sicker, they require more intensive and often more expensive care.
 High-cost Alaska sits in the eye of health care reform storm
Faced with these dramatic economic and demographic pressures, however, some hospitals are surviving -- even thriving -- by taking advantage of cutting-edge trends in health care. They are experimenting with telemedicine, using remote monitors to track patients and purchasing high-tech equipment to perform scans and other types of exams. And because many face physician shortages, they are partnering with universities and increasingly relying on nurse practitioners and others to deliver care.
At Lost Rivers, Huerta's strategy was to use technology and innovation to offer the kind of high-quality medical care that would keep patients like Rosenkrance coming back.
"Necessity is the mother of invention," Huerta said. "Small hospitals like mine are always going to be under the gun. You have to get really creative."
In the decades to come, America's heartland and hinterlands will continue to be home to the people who run the country's farms, forests and fisheries, and to visitors who crave nature and recreation. And those people will need medical care. As a result, rural health researchers say hospitals like Lost Rivers are important test cases. They show that, despite daunting obstacles, rural America need not be left behind when it comes to health care.
"Being in a rural place does not preclude high-quality medicine," said Tom Ricketts, senior policy fellow at the Sheps Center for Health Services Research at the University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill. "They are under a lot of pressure, but there are rural places you can point to as places you would say, 'This is how things ought to be done.'"
When Huerta, the CEO, arrived four years ago, he found the hospital in disarray -- dilapidated facilities, fearful employees, reluctant patients and a financial mess left behind by the former CEO. The hospital's bank account held just $7,000 and morale was at an all-time low.
"We were the poster child for everything that was wrong with rural health care," he said. "It had been a slow, steady decline from neglect."
After borrowing money to pay his employees, Huerta campaigned to pass a $5.5 million bond for Lost Rivers. Then he set his sights on overhauling the badly outmoded facilities. He also instituted a new philosophy: If it doesn't happen at a "real" hospital, it doesn't happen at Lost Rivers. That meant ending some local practices, like allowing people to bring their horses in for X-rays.
"I said, 'I have no problem doing this, but you tell me what insurance the horse has,'" he recalled. "The practice stopped immediately."
He also started to provide services to ensure that his patients didn't have to travel. Those services included telemedicine. The Bengal Pharmacy, on the bottom floor of Lost Rivers Medical Center, looks like any other pharmacy. But it has no pharmacist on site; instead, technicians and students from Idaho State University in Pocatello fill prescriptions, their work supervised by a pharmacist 80 miles away. Patients who want to talk to him go to a small private room with a phone and video link.
For rural hospitals, telehealth can make otherwise faraway services accessible to people where they live, said Keith Mueller, director of the Center for Rural Health Policy Analysis at the University of Iowa. "We can, in effect, bring the provider to the community without physically doing so," Mueller said.
 Obamacare's impact on this Alaska town with only one doctor's office
At Lost Rivers, patients also can have telemedicine appointments with a psychiatrist. And doctors can get virtual guidance from specialists in trauma, emergency care and burns.
But new technologies sometimes take getting used to. Leon Coon, 83, said the concept is a bit foreign to him. "I just don't do that stuff," said Coon, who works loading hay. "I'm a little old-fashioned."
Telemedicine is hardly a panacea. The projects often depend on grants or government awards, and they require high-speed internet, which isn't always reliable or cost-effective in rural areas.
Orie Browne, who took over as Lost Rivers' medical director in 2015, said he was drawn to the variety of rural health care. He spends his days bouncing between the emergency room, the hospital inpatient beds and the primary care clinic. "That's good for a person who gets bored easily," he said.
Many doctors, however, don't feel the same pull. Rural hospitals and clinics have long struggled to recruit doctors. In rural areas, there are roughly 13 physicians -- of any kind -- per 100,000 people, compared with 31 in urban areas, according to the National Rural Health Association.
In addition to Browne, the medical center has four part-time primary care physicians, some who live hours away and come in once a week. The hospital also relies on nurse practitioners and physician assistants. Various specialists, including a cardiologist and an orthopedist, also rotate into the medical center about once a month.
Rosenkrance, the cattle farmer, has been coming to the hospital since she was a child. Now her husband teases her about having a standing reservation in the emergency room.
"This hospital is a big deal," she said. "It's saved a lot of lives."
Editor's note: This story was a collaboration between Kaiser Health News and POLITICO. The original version of this story cited Kaiser Health News as the primary contributor to this article. Kaiser Health News, a nonprofit health newsroom whose stories appear in news outlets nationwide, is an editorially independent part of the Kaiser Family Foundation.
What's the right thing to do when crisis hits? Experts walked CNNMoney through the common mistakes companies make when dealing with a meltdown. Distressed brands, take note.
1. Ditch the disingenuous apology
United (UAL) issued a statement Monday in which Munoz apologized for an "upsetting event" in which a customer was "re-accommodated."
"The apology was awkwardly worded and not very authentic, and it didn't express or acknowledge any wrongdoing," said Nora Jacobs, a vice president at Hennes Communications, which specializes in crisis management. "We always counsel our clients to go out as quickly as possible, tell everyone how they're going to correct the situation and make sure it doesn't happen again."
A company's initial statement on a crisis is incredibly important, said Bryan Reber, a professor at the University of Georgia who studies crisis communication.
"Be the lead on the messaging," he said. "As evidenced in the United case, whatever the organization says first is what's going to be remembered and used against them."
Tom Lee of the ad firm Agency 451, which specializes in crisis control, said that by the time United finally did issue a heartfelt apology, it was "too little, too late."
"Everything that has to do with handling a crisis has to do with public perception," Lee said. "Now, anything the company says just seems disingenuous."
2. Don't blame the victim
A letter Munoz sent to employees Monday described Dao as "disruptive and belligerent" and claimed that law enforcement was "left with no choice" but to forcibly remove him. Video evidence would later dispute that Dao was acting aggressively.
That, Jacobs said, was probably United's biggest slip-up.
"Blaming the victims is not what we would ever recommend," she said.
Pepsi (PEP) actually did better than United on this count, Reber said.
"They quickly pulled the ad [and] they quickly acknowledged that ... they clearly missed the target," he said.
3. Be prepared
Companies must have a game plan for when a crisis strikes, Jacobs said. She said she works with companies "all the time" to prepare press releases for any conceivable crisis. They may just sit on the shelf forever, but Jacobs says it's always better to be prepared than to risk scrambling to put something together in the heat of the moment.
"Social media has completely changed the landscape, and that's why speed is so important. That's why we need clients to plan beforehand how they'll handle a specific situation, and they know what to say in the situation," she said.
And while social media is a minefield, it's also an opportunity, said Rebecca Weintraub, a professor at the University of Southern California who studies corporate communication.
"It's a way of pulsing what's going on in the world," she said. "It's really much less a useful broadcasting tool than it is a listening tool."
Lee, of Agency 451, pointed to Jet Blue as an example of an airline with an excellent social media presence.
"They're very responsive to customers about their experience. United needs to look at what they do," Lee said.
4. Steer clear of jargon
PRWeek bashed Munoz's word choice in his initial statement on the incident.
United CEO response to United Express Flight 3411. pic.twitter.com/rF5gNIvVd0
"The term 're-accommodate' smacked of legalese aimed at avoiding future litigation, rather than responding to what was a horrific video of a disturbing incident," PRWeek's Steve Barrett said in a blog post Tuesday.
PRWeek criticized how United handled the incident after awarding Munoz its "Communicator of the Year" award just last month.
 United says Flight 3411 wasn't overbooked. It just had no open seats left
It's no surprise airlines would want to beef up the incentives for customers they need to bump from flights.
United Airlines is currently under immense scrutiny after a video of a passenger being dragged, bloodied and screaming, off a flight on Sunday went viral.
The airline claimed it first offered passengers $1,000 to take a later flight -- but there were no volunteers. Passengers said the offers stopped at $800.
United does not publicly disclose how much gate attendants or supervisors are permitted to offer volunteers, but the company was broadly criticized for not offering more money to lure a volunteer.
It is legal to boot someone off a flight involuntarily. In those situations, the Department of Transportation says customers can receive up to $1,350.
 Delta's meltdown: What went wrong
Delta is also fresh out of a rough spot. Last week, severe weather in Atlanta sent Delta's flight network into a frenzy for about five days. The airline had to cancel more than 3,500 flights, leaving customers fuming and crew members in limbo.
The company attempted to appease some of those affected customers. This week, Delta began emailing hundreds of thousands of customers affected by the delays, offering $200 vouchers or 20,000 bonus frequent flier miles.
All six countries had been named by Obama's Treasury Department as well.
"Expanding trade in a way that is freer and fairer for all Americans requires that other economies avoid unfair currency practices, and we will continue to monitor this carefully," Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said in a statement.
 Merkel to Trump adviser - We're not manipulating the euro
The promise of restoring American jobs by cutting off what it considers unfair trading practices has been a signature promise of the Trump administration.
Peter Navarro, the head of Trump's new National Trade Council, in January accused Germany of using a "grossly undervalued" euro to hurt the U.S. economy.
German Chancellor Angela Merkel quickly rebutted those claims saying that Germany, as a member of the eurozone, could not influence the euro and has "supported an independent European Central Bank."
Before the elections, President Trump had vowed to label China a currency manipulator on Day One of his administration. But on Wednesday, he backed away from that promise in a Wall Street Journal interview.
"They're not currency manipulators," he said in an interview.
Trump's top advisers earlier this week seemed to be priming the media for the reversal in Trump's stance. Steven Schwarzman, chairman of the Blackstone Grou  (BX)and one of Trump's top economic advisers, raised doubt that the administration would designate China as such in its upcoming report.
Speaking with the Journal, Trump said he changed his mind because China hadn't been manipulating its currency for months, and that such a move could harm ongoing talks with Beijing on containing the nuclear threat from North Korea.
 Trump is dialing back his economic promises
While China has been criticized for years by other countries for its heavy-handed efforts to keep the yuan undervalued, Beijing has lately been doing the opposite, by trying to prop up its currency. Because of these actions, many economists and investors had already suspected that China wouldn't meet Treasury's criteria.
Previous administrations have used three factors to determine if a country is a currency manipulator -- a trade surplus with the U.S. of more than $20 billion; a current-account surplus totaling more than 3% of its gross domestic product; and repeatedly devaluing its currency by buying foreign assets that equals to 2% of output a year.
 Trump breaks key rule for presidents
The last report released in October found that six countries -- China, Japan, Korea, Germany, Taiwan and Switzerland -- met two of the three criteria.
Presidents have often used these semiannual reports as a diplomatic tool while engaging with countries that are seen as having exchange rate policies that harm U.S. jobs and economic growth.
Designating a country as a currency manipulator doesn't immediately trigger any penalties, but it is seen by other governments as a provocation.
The last time the U.S. designated a country a currency cheater was China in 1994 under President Bill Clinton.
Former Presidents George W. Bush and Barack Obama took a more diplomatic approach by applying pressure on China, Taiwan and other countries to change their policies during bilateral negotiations and multilateral talks.
Trump's policy reversal on China sends a signal to global finance chiefs ahead of next week's meeting in Washington, D.C., that Trump could soften the aggressive trade positions he staked out during his campaign.
Still, the White House has not indicated Trump has any intentions of releasing his returns. So Trump critics are prepared to make some noise.
"We march to demand that the president release his returns, as he has repeatedly promised, but failed, to do," the Tax March website reads. "We march because it is in the best interest of the American people to know what financial entanglements and conflicts of interest our leaders have."
 What we'd learn if Trump would just release his tax returns
The organizers of Saturday's marches say there are more than 180 planned across 48 states and the District of Columbia.
Much like the "Pussyhats" symbolized by the Women's March in January, the hallmark of this protest will be giant inflatable chickens. They're meant to symbolize Trump's cowardice, according to Delvone Michael, a member of the Tax March executive committee.
Michael is a senior political strategist for the progressive Working Families Party. The march's executive committee also includes organizers from the National Women's Law Center, the Indivisible Project, the Georgetown Center on Poverty and Inequality and a host of other groups.
 Pelosi, Dems not letting go of Trump tax return push
There's no way to know for sure how large the crowds will be. In some of the largest cities -- Washington, D.C., Los Angeles, New York and San Francisco -- anywhere from 10,000 to more than 20,000 people are planning to attend, according to Facebook event pages.
However, many cities may draw crowds of fewer than 100. The Facebook page for a march in Savannah, Georgia, for example, shows only a dozen people plan on attending. For a march in Charlotte, North Carolina, less than 100 Facebook users have said they'll go.
Of course, turnout at the tax marches could surprise on the upside.
Kathleen Petersen, a retiree who is organizing the march in Cheyenne, Wyoming, also helped organize the local Women's March there the day after Trump was inaugurated.
"We thought we'd be lucky if we got 200 people. And we got 2,000," Petersen said.
Trump threatened to upend Obamacare in an interview with the Wall Street Journal on Wednesday. He said he hadn't decided whether to continue funding cost-sharing subsidies that reduce deductibles and out-of-pocket costs for low-income consumers. Without these payments, insurers will almost certainly exit the exchanges.
"Obamacare is dead next month if it doesn't get that money," Trump told the newspaper. "I haven't made my viewpoint clear yet."
 Trump's mixed messages on Obamacare subsidies could prompt insurers to flee
But the next day, his administration finalized a new rule aimed at stabilizing Obamacare. The measures address many complaints insurers had about the exchanges, but will make it tougher for consumers to enroll.
The rule shortens the open enrollment period to six weeks -- from November 1 to December 15 -- rather than three months. It also makes it harder for people to sign-up outside of this period, requiring enrollees to provide documentation to prove they are eligible because they lost a job, had a baby, got divorced or had another life change. And it requires consumers to pay any past-due premiums they owe before enrolling again with the same insurer.
The measure also allows insurers to raise deductibles and co-pays. While this could lower premiums for some, it would increase enrollees' out-of-pocket costs. And it eliminates federal oversight aimed at making sure there are enough doctors and hospitals in every insurance plan's network.
"While these steps will help stabilize the individual and small group markets, they are not a long-term cure for the problems that the Affordable Care Act has created in our health care system," said Seema Verma, administrator of the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, which runs Obamacare.
 More than half of Americans approve of Obamacare now, Gallup poll finds
While insurers were happy with the rule, they pressed the administration to guarantee funding for the cost-sharing subsidies.
"Health plans and the consumers they serve need to know that funding for cost-sharing reduction subsidies will continue uninterrupted," said Marilyn Tavenner, CEO of America's Health Insurance Plans, a main industry lobbying group. "Without funding, millions of Americans who buy their own plan will be harmed."
Consumer advocates, meanwhile, worry that the roadblocks set up by the new rule will actually hurt Obamacare by deterring healthy people from signing up.
"While the Administration claims the changes are needed to stabilize the insurance market, many of them would reduce market stability by shrinking enrollment and making the pool of people with coverage sicker, on average," said Sarah Lueck, senior policy analyst at the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a left-leaning group.
Yellen has been overseeing a very gradual increase in interest rates, starting in December. Wall Street is happy with the policy and, most importantly, President Trump has learned that it won't help his economic policy plans if rates rise too quickly.
Of course, as an outsider candidate, Trump accused Yellen of colluding with Obama to keep rates low.
But experts say Trump's comment shouldn't be taken as a sign by itself that Yellen will be reappointed. Among other things, it's way too early to be talking about.
"This is a complete 180 degree change in view for him. He bashed her pretty hard during the campaign," said Chris Rupkey, chief financial economist with Bank of Tokyo Mitsubishi. "But we don't know the other candidates yet and it is still very early."
October 2015: 'Very political person'
Much of Trump's criticism of Yellen came well before the Fed started raising rates. He told Bloomberg in October 2015 that Yellen was a "very political person" who was keeping rates low to help President Obama.
And he told The Hill that the Fed was responsible for a stock market bubble and hurting retirees who couldn't get any interest on savings. "They worked all their lives to save and now what happens is they're being forced into an inflated stock market and at some point they'll get wiped out," he said.
April and May 2016: 'Most likely replace her'
Trump told Fortune in April that Yellen had done a "serviceable job," but added "I would be more inclined to put other people in." The following month, he told CNBC that he liked low interest rates and had nothing against Yellen -- but still said "I would most likely replace her" because she wasn't a Republican. Presidents Obama, Clinton and Reagan all reappointed Fed chairmen appointed by predecessors of other parties.
September 2016: Yellen should be 'ashamed' of herself
By September, Trump's support for low rates had disappeared and he was turning against Yellen again. He said she was keeping rates low to help Obama and Clinton.
"The only thing that is strong is the artificial stock market," he told Reuters. He also told CNBC that Yellen was "obviously political, as she's doing what Obama wants her to do."
Trump said Yellen should be "ashamed" of what she and the Fed had done to the country and that the Fed is not even close to being independent.
Yellen actually responded to the criticism at her next press conference: "We do not discuss politics at our meetings, and we do not take politics into account in our decisions."
A week later, Trump doubled down on his charge that the Fed was being political. "Fed is not doing their job. The Fed is being more political than Secretary Clinton," he said at his first debate with Clinton. He said stocks were in "a big, fat, ugly bubble."
The EFF investigated 152 tech services currently used in classrooms and found they "were lacking in encryption, data retention and data sharing policies."
"We are hoping by documenting these concerns, we can drive home the point that these are concerns to be taken seriously," EFF researcher Gennie Gebhart told CNNTech.
The organization surveyed over 1,000 people around the country, and while the report is not a comprehensive representation of school systems, it shows that parents, teachers and students are concerned about the state of privacy.
 California lawmakers want to mandate internet for kids in juvy
A main concern, the report found, is parents aren't always aware of what apps their kids are using, or what information they collect.
Internet users are already tracked through the news they read, the stuff they buy and the videos they watch. That data is used to create personalized ads that are targeted at each individual user. Parents are concerned that edtech companies might use their kids' emails, personal information or interests in similar ways.
For instance, fitness trackers are used in schools to track kids' PE performance. Educational fitness firm IHT (which isn't mentioned in the EFF report) partners with Adidas and monitors student activity like heart rate and fitness level. Its privacy policy says it makes some personal information available to third-parties "or that help IHT market to customers."
Schools rely too much on "privacy by policy" to protect student information, the report found. While many edtech companies have policies in place to say they won't sell or share data, historically, those policies have failed.
In 2014, 20 million student records from the college and job planning platform ConnectEDU were sold to other companies without first alerting users, violating its own data use policy.
"In security, if you are trusting someone not to break the rules, you're not really defending or protecting anything," said Jessy Irwin, a security educator unaffiliated with the report who advocates for more privacy in the classroom.
There are federal privacy laws that regulate student data, but critics say they haven't evolved with technology. Some states have enacted their own rules about student data. California, Colorado and Connecticut, for instance, prohibit companies from using student data for targeted advertising.
When it comes to using a new website or app, Gebhart said teachers frequently have free rein to use things on the internet. Many parents who responded to the survey said they're not made aware, or have little say, over what schools are using.
"Education is always 10 to 15 years behind technologically," Irwin said. "But we're seeing a lot of businesses get embarrassed by not having solid security practices, and schools are going to have to figure that out, too."
But given his international business empire and -- until recently -- his unwillingness to be critical of Russia, Democrats and a small handful of Republicans have supported efforts to require him to release his returns or to pressure Congressional leaders to exercise their authority to obtain them legally.
The public has been vocal as well. This weekend there will be more than 150 marches across 48 states and the District of Columbia to demand Trump release his returns.
Among their concerns: the president's foreign ties could pose a national security risk and his potential conflicts of interest might violate the Emoluments Clause of the Constitution.
Without his returns, "Americans cannot know whether Mr. Trump is using the presidency to enrich himself and potentially empower our enemies," Sen. Ron Wyden, the top Democrat on the Senate Finance Committee, wrote in a recent opinion piece.
If Trump's returns were ever released -- how much the public would learn depends on what parts of his returns come out. For instance, the top two pages alone won't reveal his foreign ties. Even his full return -- including schedules and attached forms -- may not definitively resolve concerns about his foreign business relationships. But they could point to other information -- such as who else invests in his partnerships -- that could help answer questions.
That said, however, plenty of other details about his tax situation would be revealed, such as:
How much income he made: The top two pages of his federal Form 1040 would reveal Trump's income from general sources (salary, business income, investment income, rental income, etc.)
What he claimed in deductions: Trump's return would indicate how much he claimed in itemized deductions. More specifically on Schedule A and Form 8283, he would report how much money he donated to charity and which charities he chose.
 Democrats vow to keep pushing for Trump's tax returns
His charitable giving is an area he bragged about during the campaign, even though a Pulitzer Prize-winning Washington Post report did not find proof in most instances of the donations Trump said he made.
How much he paid in taxes: The president has often bragged about paying as little tax as possible while at the same time boasting of his great wealth. That's raised concerns that the tax code may allow some of the very richest Americans to pay very little.
Whether and where he has foreign bank accounts: On Schedule B and related Form 8938, the public would learn what foreign accounts and trusts Trump has and in which countries.
Whether he paid taxes to foreign governments: If Trump claims a foreign tax credit, that means he paid tax to a foreign government and that would be subtracted from his U.S. income tax liability. On Form 1116 he'd have to reveal the countries where he paid those taxes and the type of income on which those taxes were due.
His businesses' profits and losses: Schedule C would detail the profits, losses and expenses of Trump's individual business entities. Schedule K would show his or his entities' share of profits, losses and liabilities in the various partnerships in which Trump has a stake. That same schedule would also list the locations of those partnerships.
Also, on those forms he must declare whether he "materially participated" in a given business. In cases where he did, he could really reduce his tax bill because he'd be allowed to use losses from that business to offset taxable profits from other businesses or investments, said tax lawyer Steven Rosenthal, a senior fellow at the Tax Policy Center.
Whether he'd benefit from his own tax reform proposals: The Trump administration has indicated it is working on a new tax reform plan. If and when that new plan is ever released, having the president's more recent tax returns would offer a good indication of whether he'd benefit from his own proposals.
We decided to ask CNNMoney readers: Are Americans lazy? And what do you think the biggest problem is in the economy? Some people wrote two lines and others penned long essays.
Broadly, immigrants and people over age 50 were more likely to concur that Americans are lethargic. But plenty of people just wrote in to say how difficult life was. Jeannie Daniels of Welsh, Louisiana, captured it in two lines:
"Holding two jobs to be able to afford my insurance and medicine. Sorry, I'm just too tired for anything else," wrote Daniels who is 57.
Overall, five dominant themes emerged from the emails. We present them below, along with direct quotes from readers (used with their permission and edited lightly for length and spelling).
 Read the original article "Americans have become lazy"
1. Mediocrity is celebrated
"No one wants to get their hands dirty -- literally. Kids are coddled and can't even run around outside exploring. ...Young people want to sell a few apps and make millions, or work for a startup that lets them work or nap when they feel like it. Then there's the HUGE drug epidemic ... young people are bored out of their minds." --Sue Butcher, 64, Boulder, Colorado
"I work with our youth who are under-educated, under-motivated, lacking in basic working and thinking skills, and have little to no experience of what planning, hard work, and visions of success can do. I hold families and the education system responsible for our youth not experiencing personal success." --John Seryak, 67, Reynoldsburg, Ohio
 Meet Howard Lerman, the newest $1 billion tech CEO
2. The 1% get it all.
"I can't believe this is even a topic for debate. The problem with the American economy is that 99% of the wealth is in the hands of less that 1% of the populace. That is not even an economy, it should be an episode of 'Hoarders.'" --Tony Paustian, 36, Federal Way, Washington
"As a teacher for 25 years, my salary has not kept up with inflation, like 90% of my fellow Americans. This country has become a land that only supports only one class: The well heeled." --Richard Horan, 55, Ithaca, New York
"The biggest problem with the economy is income inequality. Look no further than executive compensation. CEOs today make orders of magnitude more than they did in the 1960s and 70s. It's because so much of the wealth is going to a tiny fraction of people who don't need the money and aren't spending it! Why does that matter? It matters a lot. It's holding down wages for the rest of America's workforce." --John Salomone, 44, Boulder, Colorado
"I think the biggest problem with the U.S. Economy is greed. Those who are blessed to have thriving businesses and who are becoming wealthier each day are not willing to share their wealth with those who have less." --Sue Russell, 67, Center, Texas
 More insurers abandon Obamacare. Who might be next?

3. The other 99% are (mostly) in debt.
"It is unfair to write an article like this without mentioning student debt. Total student loans rose from around $510 billion in 2007 to more than $1.4 TRILLION today. Using me as an example, I was saddled with over $113,000 in student debt when I graduated from a state school with a meteorology degree. ... [Student debt] leaves very little room to take risks." -- Mike Swan, 31, Southington, Connecticut
"I'll tell you what's wrong with our economy: Our dollars aren't worth anything. My parents both worked full time jobs and could actually buy a house. EVERYONE that I know works, a lot at that, so I'm not sure how this guy gets off calling us lazy. Start a business? We're trying to pay our bills! Move? Does he realize how expensive that is!" --Cat Neely, 29, Atlanta, Georgia
 U.S. inequality is getting worse
4. U.S. health care is a mess
"Too many people have the energy, ideas, and motivation to start new ventures and spark the economy, but they don't do anything because they want to retain their employer-based health care coverage." --Craig Boroughs, 44, Keystone, Colorado
"People don't change jobs or take risks because they could lose health coverage, and while many adults are willing to wing it without coverage ... if they have children, they will stay put." --Pamela Rodi, 61, Los Angeles
"If you want to see innovation, let this country go to universal health care. There are so many bright people that are in a point in their professional life that could really be successful, but you hear the same thing: 'I need health insurance.' The cash flow from starting and growing a business often doesn't create an additional $1,200 a month." --Kirk Billingsley, 56, Monterey, Virginia
 Trump is dialing back his economic promises

5. We're too dependent on government
"We have become a nation that wants handouts. We need another: 'Ask what you can do for your country moment.' We have become a very laid back, play on our phone at every opportunity, nation. I have noticed this in all ages. We have to get back to work ethic before we can truly move forward." --Thomas Knudsen, 50, New York
"Why take risks when you can get a basket of social programs to support you. To think the food stamp budget is now $70 billion a year is astounding. We have a reported 4.5% unemployment rate, but the lowest participation in 40 years. Why work? Why take risks?" --Terry Podlogar, 58, The Woodlands, Texas
"I can count the number of veterans receiving 100% disability, which is $36,000 a year, yet they work next me in a federal job making as much or more than me. The VA has a very unique definition of disability which should mean unable to work. Entitlements need to be stopped or at the very least, severely reined in. When workers see so many other people getting so much for free, it kills morale." --Rebecca Mosseri, 55, Kempner, Texas
"I hope that this decision will alleviate some of the concerns expressed by some shareholders and will allow the executive team to continue to focus on the task at hand," Thiam wrote in a letter to investors.
It's the second straight year that Thiam volunteered to have his bonus slashed by 40%. The cut will knock more than 3 million Swiss francs ($3 million) off a total compensation package that was originally set at 11.9 million Swiss francs ($11.9 million).
The pay cuts cap a rough year for Credit Suisse (CS). The bank agreed in 2016 to pay a total of $5.3 billion to the U.S. Department of Justice to settle claims that it packaged and sold toxic mortgages between 2005 and 2007.
It also announced a major round of layoffs.

Thiam was hired into his top job in 2015 and announced a major overhaul and cost cutting program just a few months into his tenure. He wants the bank to focus on wealth management and emerging markets.
He said Friday that his top priority is seeing through the firm's turnaround.
Credit Suisse shareholders will vote on the 2016 compensation packages at the firm's annual general meeting on April 28.
 BP cuts CEO pay by $8 million after shareholder revolt
Credit Suisse is not the only major firm in Europe to face shareholder unease over high levels of executive compensation.
Oil giant BP (BP) announced earlier this month that it had cut the pay of CEO Bob Dudley for 2016 by 40% to $11.6 million.
The reduction follows a rare shareholder revolt last year when 59% voted against Bob Dudley's 2015 pay and benefits package, which was worth $19.6 million.
"It is clear that shareholders and other stakeholders would like our remuneration policy to be simpler, more transparent, and to lead to reduced levels of reward," said Ann Dowling, the head of BP's remuneration committee.
Inside a White House plagued by infighting, Cohn is part of a global-minded wing with Trump's son-in-law, Jared Kushner, against aides who consider themselves nationalists, like Steve Bannon, the former executive chairman of right-wing Breitbart News, and policy adviser Stephen Miller.
At least for the moment, the Cohn wing appears to be ascendant.
Worked for U.S. Steel after college
Cohn grew up in Ohio in a middle-class family. He had dyslexia and struggled in school.
"I bounced around from school to school, because really no one knew what to do with a dyslexic kid" in the 1960s, he said on a Goldman Sachs podcast in December.
But he had a knack for business. Cohn said he helped out at a warehouse for his family's electrical company and developed an "encyclopedic knowledge" of everything it stocked.
Cohn got a business degree from American University and took a job with U.S. Steel selling home products.
Talked his way into a job on Wall Street
Cohn got his start in finance after talking his way into a cab with a Wall Street trader and persuading him to consider him for a job trading options, he recalled in a 2009 commencement speech at American University.
Cohn knew little about the position. So he bought a book about options and spent a weekend reading it over and over.
Goldman Sachs hired him in 1990, and Cohn spent 26 years climbing the company's ranks. He was known for his markets expertise and was considered the likely heir to the CEO.
But Lloyd Blankfein, the chief executive, doesn't appear ready to step down anytime soon.
Amassed a fortune at Goldman Sachs
Since he became president and chief operating officer of Goldman Sachs in 2006, Cohn has amassed a fortune.
He earned more than $130 million in his first three years in the job, a period that included the Great Recession, according to company filings. From 2009 to 2013, he pulled in about $60 million.
Since then, his wealth has climbed further. Cohn walked away from the bank in January with a $285 million payout -- not including the $7 million in salary he earned last year.
And Cohn has millions more tied up in other investments. According to filings released by the White House last month, Cohn listed assets worth between $252 million and around $600 million.
Selling off millions in stock
As a White House employee, Cohn is subject to rules that prohibit him from participating in matters in which he has a financial interest.
He has made plans to sell at least $240 million worth of stock to avoid conflicts. The bulk of that comes from his Goldman Sachs (FADXX) investments, according to a document provided to CNNMoney by the Office of Government Ethics.
The document also shows that Cohn owned almost $16 million worth of stock in the Industrial and Commercial Bank of China (IDCBF).
Those amounts are based on the value of Cohn's shares at the time the ethics document was issued March 8. Cohn owned smaller amounts in banks and technology companies like Philip Morris (PM), Bank of America (BAC), Microsoft (MSFT, Tech30), McDonald's (MCD), Facebook (FB, Tech30) and Twitter (TWTR, Tech30).
The paperwork doesn't say whether Cohn has sold the investments yet, but he is expected to if he hasn't already.
Cohn is allowed to defer paying capital gains tax on any sale as long as he puts his money in an investment the government permits, like U.S. Treasuries or a highly diversified mutual fund. It's an incentive for people who leave high-paying private sector jobs to join public service.
The White House has said Cohn will stay away from policy matters "in which Goldman Sachs is a party or represents a party." It has not explained how he can work on wide-ranging reform of bank regulations that could affect Goldman.
Wall Street is counting on Trump to roll back Dodd-Frank, the massive regulatory act put in place after the financial crisis that increased oversight of banks and proscribed how they do business.
But Trump has also called for breaking up the big banks -- something Cohn has voiced support for. He said recently that he endorses an updated version of Glass-Steagall, the Depression-era law that forced investment banks and commercial banks to separate. It was repealed under President Bill Clinton in 1999.
Cohn said that an updated version of the law could encourage banks to lend more to small and medium-sized companies. He did not elaborate on what a modernized Glass-Steagall would look like.
--CNNMoney's Donna Borak and Matt Egan contributed to this story.
But the industrial giant -- whose businesses employ roughly 190,000 people around the world -- is too important for Japan to let it collapse, analysts say.
 Toshiba warns it may not survive crisis
Icon of Japanese industry
More than 100,000 of the conglomerate's employees are in Japan, some of them in key industries.
Toshiba is pulling out of the nuclear construction sector, the root cause of its current financial debacle. Its troubled U.S. subsidiary Westinghouse Electric filed for bankruptcy last month, and will eventually be removed from the Japanese company's books, leaving a thick trail of red ink.
 Westinghouse Electric is filing for bankruptcy
But Toshiba still has a significant nuclear business in Japan. It does decommissioning work at the Fukushima Daiichi plant, the site of a major nuclear disaster after the powerful earthquake and tsunami that hit Japan in 2011.
And the Japanese government has a track record of stepping in to save major companies that are in trouble.
Toshiba is "too big" for Japan to allow it to go under, said Kazunori Ito, an analyst with research firm Ibbotson Associates Japan.
Billions in debt
The situation is still precarious.
One risk is that banks will stop supporting the struggling conglomerate. But the lenders so far appear willing to hold out for a solution rather than risk losses of their own from a messy collapse.
Toshiba owed creditors 1.4 trillion yen ($13 billion) at the end of last year. Downgrades of its credit rating in late December meant lenders had the right to call in some of those loans. But more than three months later, they haven't done so.
On the stock market, investors have been dumping Toshiba shares in droves. Its stock has more than halved in value since it first warned of a multibillion dollar hit from Westinghouse back in December. And the accounting fiasco resulting from Westinghouse's problems has raised the risk of Toshiba suffering the embarrassment of being delisted from the Tokyo Stock Exchange.
Rushing to raise cash
The company's management is desperately trying to raise money to offset the huge losses. To do so, they're ready to sell Toshiba's crown jewel.
After a previous accounting scandal in 2015, Toshiba had to raise cash in a hurry. It sold off its medical unit for 666 billion yen ($6 billion) last year, saying the sale would help it focus on its core businesses of nuclear power plants and flash memory chips.
Now, those units are also on the chopping block.
Toshiba has already started distancing itself from Westinghouse. And it's accepting bids for its prized memory chips business, hoping to bring in at least 2 trillion yen ($18 billion).
 Toshiba chairman steps down
The company is also working to sell an additional 160 billion yen ($1.5 billion) worth of assets to help give it "a sufficient financial foundation," CEO Satoshi Tsunakawa said this week.
After all shedding all those businesses, what kind of company will be left?
Toshiba says it will now focus on its "social infrastructure business." That means transportation systems and products like air-conditioning units and elevators.
But the slew of sales are likely to reduce Toshiba to a shell of its former self, a humiliating fall for the iconic 142-year-old company.
JCPenney (JCP) first announced plans to close the stores in February, saying it wanted to shift its focus to its best performing stores. The company -- like most players in the brick-and-mortar retail industry -- hasn't been performing well. Its stock is down nearly 30% in 2017.
 Retailers cut tens of thousands of jobs. Again
Companies that once thrived with storefronts across the country have been beaten down by e-commerce, particularly by digital retail giants like Amazon (AMZN, Tech30).
JCPenney specifically named online retail as a big reason why it's now forced to shutter stores.
"We believe closing stores will also allow us to adjust our business to effectively compete against the growing threat of online retailers," CEO Marvin Ellison said in February.
So far this year, Macy's (M), Staples (SPLS) and GameStop (GME) have all announced widespread store closures. The Limited shut down all of its storefronts, and Ralph Lauren said it's closing down its Fifth Avenue flagship store in New York City. Payless ShoeSource filed for bankruptcy this month.
 Payless ShoeSource is filing for bankruptcy
According to the latest jobs report, the retail sector shed nearly 30,000 jobs in March.
JCPenney hasn't said exactly how many people will lose their jobs once the 138 stores are closed in July. But the company has said it plans to offer voluntary early retirement to about 6,000 employees.
Monday, April 10
Footage of the incident begins circulating on social media late Sunday night and continues into Monday morning. United CEO Oscar Munoz issues a public statement and writes a letter to employees.
"This is an upsetting event to all of us here at United," Munoz said in a statement. "I apologize for having to re-accommodate these customers. Our team is moving with a sense of urgency to work with the authorities and conduct our own detailed review of what happened. We are also reaching out to this passenger to talk directly to him and further address and resolve this situation."
"This situation was unfortunately compounded when one of the passengers we politely asked to deplane refused and it became necessary to contact Chicago Aviation Security Officers to help," Munoz wrote in a letter to employees. "Our employees followed established procedures for dealing with situations like this. While I deeply regret this situation arose, I also emphatically stand behind all of you, and I want to commend you for continuing to go above and beyond to ensure we fly right."
United Airlines spokesperson Megan McCarthy issues a summary of what the airline knew about the incident at the time. United claims the passenger was "disruptive and belligerent" and aviation officers were "left with no choice" but to "assist in removing the customer."
Tuesday, April 11
The incident continues to dominate headlines. Lawyers for Dao make it known that Dao is still in a Chicago hospital recovering. United issues a new statement that steers away from putting any blame on Dao.
"The truly horrific event that occurred on this flight has elicited many responses from all of us: outrage, anger, disappointment. I share all of those sentiments, and one above all: my deepest apologies for what happened," Munoz said in a statement. "Like you, I continue to be disturbed by what happened on this flight and I deeply apologize to the customer forcibly removed and to all the customers aboard. No one should ever be mistreated this way.
"It's never too late to do the right thing. I have committed to our customers and our employees that we are going to fix what's broken so this never happens again. This will include a thorough review of crew movement, our policies for incentivizing volunteers in these situations, how we handle oversold situations and an examination of how we partner with airport authorities and local law enforcement. We'll communicate the results of our review by April 30."
Wednesday, April 12
Early Wednesday morning, additional footage surfaces that shows the moments leading to when officers dragged Dao from the aircraft. It shows Dao explaining why he would not leave the plane. Munoz appears on ABC's "Good Morning America." Three Chicago Department of Aviation officers are placed on leave.
"We are not going to [use] a law enforcement official to take [overbooked passengers] off. To remove a booked, paid, seated passenger -- we can't do that," Munoz said on ABC.
"[Our employees] all have an incredible amount of common sense, and this issue could have been solved by that. That's on me. I have to fix that.
"What I felt [while watching the video] ... probably the word 'ashamed' comes to mind."

Thursday, April 13
Dao's lawyers hold a press conference, saying Dao suffered a concussion and promising to file a lawsuit. United issues another statement explicitly focused on Dao.
"We continue to express our sincerest apology to Dr. Dao. We cannot stress enough that we remain steadfast in our commitment to make this right," United Airlines said in a statement.
"This horrible situation has provided a harsh learning experience from which we will take immediate, concrete action.
"We are committing that United will not ask law enforcement officers to remove passengers from our flights unless it is a matter of safety and security. Second, we've started a thorough review of policies that govern crew movement.
"Third, we will fully review and improve our training programs to ensure our employees are prepared and empowered to put our customers first. Our values -- not just systems -- will guide everything we do. We'll communicate the results of our review and the actions we will take by April 30.
"United CEO Oscar Munoz and the company called Dr. Dao on numerous occasions to express our heartfelt and deepest apologies."
By Thursday, United said it was neither of those things.
But the difference is a bit of a technicality.
An overbooked or oversold flight occurs when an airline sells more tickets than there are available seats.
 Why Americans are fed up with flying
United now says that didn't happen to Flight 3411. But the plane had no empty seats, and four crew members headed to Louisville needed to get on the plane, said Megan McCarthy, a United spokeswoman.
Those crew weren't holding paid tickets. That means United neither overbooked nor oversold the now infamous flight.
"There's really no word for it," said McCarthy, who attributed the confusion to the airline's own understanding of what unfolded on the flight as it gathered additional facts.
Despite this confusion, United Chief Executive Oscar Munoz said in an apology it would scrutinize "how we handle oversold situations." Munoz said that results of that review would be shared on April 30.
Overselling is a common practice in the airline industry and is based on an airline's expectation of how many paying passengers likely won't show up for the flight. It's designed to maximize an airline's bottom line, but is high atop a list of reasons fliers don't enjoy air travel.
"I'm an East Coast guy," Lerman told CNNMoney.
Lerman grew up in northern Virginia, just as AOL was exploding on the scene. He went to Duke University and just couldn't see himself in Silicon Valley.
"When you're starting a company, you need to rely on people around you to work for free for a long time," Lerman says. He met Yext's chief operating officer, Tom Dixon, in middle school. He still remembers the day Dixon brought a Pentium chip to class. It was the beginning of a long friendship, fused with a common love of tech.
"They were scary bright kids," remembers Vern Williams, their math teacher at Longfellow Middle School in Falls Church, Virginia. "They didn't like routine or textbooks. They wanted to push their creative juices."
 Meet Khe Hy, the Oprah for Millennials
Yext is one of five companies Lerman has founded so far. It's basically a 21st Century version of the phone book (Yext actually stands for "next Yellow pages.")
Companies like McDonald's (MCD), one of Yext's clients, need the addresses, hours and contact info for its many restaurants up to date on sites as diverse as Google Maps, Yelp, Facebook, Bing, etc. Yext provides the software for companies to update their information on all of those sites with one click.
"We're pioneering a new market," Lerman, who co-founded the company in 2006, says.
But for all its success, the company still isn't profitable. Like many young tech companies, there's still a lot of risk about how much Yext will grow in the coming years and whether it will be able to generate bigger sales.
Yext has over 600 employees with offices in the U.S. and Europe. Lerman speaks German and is currently learning Chinese, perhaps foreshadowing Yext's next move.
"I think being an entrepreneur is the intersection of two things: Being able to see how the world should be and then doing something about it," he says. "A lot of people can do one of those two things."
 Silicon Valley kicks off fight on net neutrality
Lerman has been compared to iconic tech CEOs like Marc Benioff of Salesforce for his ability to rally crowds, and Apple cofounder Steve Jobs for his love of black turtlenecks, which he wears every day.
In addition to Yext, Lerman also created the secret messaging app Confide. It's gotten a lot of media attention lately after news broke that White House staffers were using it to chat confidentially with each other, and journalists. Confide markets itself as a secure app "military-grade end-to-end encryption," although some have questioned whether that's a fair statement.
That's the case, at least, that was laid out by Dao's lawyer at a press conference on Thursday.
"For a long time, airlines -- United in particular -- have bullied us," Thomas Demetrio said. "They have treated us less than, maybe, we deserve."
Dao's experience became a moment of national catharsis. He could have been any of us. He was a paying customer, and he just wanted to get home.
United reiterated its apology in a statement Thursday and said, "This horrible situation has provided a harsh learning experience from which we will take immediate, concrete action. We have committed to our customers and our employees that we are going to fix what's broken so this never happens again."
 Buckle your seat belt. You're stuck with your airline.
There's reason for customers to be fed up with flying. Years of cost cutting, bankruptcies and consolidation have left just four remaining airlines with more than 80% market share, so consumer choice has all but disappeared.
Meanwhile, airline profits are higher than ever.
"This industry has transformed itself into one of mass transportation," John Plueger, the chief executive of Air Lease Corp., said in a March interview. "And in all mass transportation industries, cost is everything."
Airline customer service has been eroding for years, and airlines are one of the lowest-scoring sectors on the American Customer Satisfaction Index. Almost everyone has a story of air travel misery.
Ramped-up airport security since 9/11 has also complicated travel, and long TSA lines irk fliers from the start of their trips.
And while Americans are flying more than ever, loyalty also isn't what it used to be. Most U.S. airlines switched their frequent flyer programs from a distance-based system to one based on how much passengers spend on a ticket. For the cost-conscious business frequent flier, the move made it harder to earn and redeem miles -- and put the family vacation further from reach.
"You would think that now that U.S. airlines are making healthy profits they could afford to treat passengers better," said George Hobica, founder of Airfarewatchdog.com.
 It's a golden age for affordable flying. No, really
But it's not all bad.
For one thing, air travel is the safest form of transportation.
And that obsessive focus on cost has made it more affordable than ever, thanks in part to competition from low-cost airlines. In the first half of 2016, the average round trip ticket on U.S. airlines cost $369, including $23 in fees. That's the cheapest price tag since the nadir of the financial crisis in 2009 and 2010, according to industry group Airlines for America.
Older jets are being retired and we can stay connected in the air.
Perks are coming back on some flights, too. American Airlines will launch in-flight meals for all fliers on trips between Los Angeles and New York, and San Francisco and New York starting May 1. The announcement came days after Delta began serving free meals to passengers on some of its coast-to-coast flights.
And though the industry still battles low customer satisfaction, its stats are on the rise.
Airline satisfaction jumped 4.3% in 2016, according to the American Customer Satisfaction Index. The number of domestic flights canceled in 2016 was at the lowest level in 22 years, according to the Department of Transportation's Air Travel Consumer Report. And passenger complaints to the DOT dropped 11.3% last year compared to 2015.
So will Dao live on as a symbol of the beleaguered flier, tapping into the zeitgeist of a travel-weary nation? His lawyer seems to think so.
"I hope he becomes a poster child for all of us," Demetrio said. "Someone's got to."
A United (UAL) email provided to CNN by a passenger on the flight says customers are eligible for vouchers toward future flights if they "release" the airline from lawsuits. The email offered a voucher worth $500.
A United spokesperson later told CNN that it did not mean to send passengers emails with the "release" language in them and said no Flight 3411 passenger would have to agree to such terms.
Dao's lawyer, Thomas Demetrio, said he plans to sue United and the authorities who manhandled his client. He said that Dao suffered a concussion, two missing teeth, a broken nose and injuries to his sinuses, and will have to undergo reconstructive surgery.
Dao was forcibly removed, bloodied and screaming, at Chicago O'Hare International Airport, after refusing to give up his flight to Louisville, Kentucky, to make room for United crew members. The incident was captured by passengers on phone cameras, and caused a public backlash.
 Passenger dragged off plane has a strong legal case
United said it has apologized to Dao. But CEO Oscar Munoz initially released a tone-deaf statement to its employees about the need to "re-accommodate" passengers and said that Dao has been "disruptive and belligerent."
He later said he didn't blame Dao for the "horrific event" and promised not to drag passengers off planes anymore.
But it's unlikely that United or any other airline will drop the practice of overbooking its flights, because it's too important to how they operate. Also, most of the people who get bumped do so voluntarily for cash or travel vouchers.
Public opposition to Trump also played a role in Sarimsakci's decision to drop the Scion name, even in the red states of Texas and Missouri, Kingston said. Dallas County voted 61% for Hillary Clinton last year.
"Dallas is a very blue city," said Kingston, a Democrat who opposed the project. "You're looking at a very unpopular president taking unpopular actions. I think it's a dumb idea for a developer to go into business with him. Trump is a badly damaged brand."
Sarimsakci did not respond to a request for comment. In a statement, Trump Hotels denied there had ever been a formal agreement for Sarimsakci to develop hotels with the Scion name.
"This developer made quite a bit of noise about a potential deal and now there is more noise about the possible dissolving of this deal," the statement said.
Trump Hotels said it had advised Sarimsakci not to pursue the project with the city council.
"It is very common in the hospitality business that some projects do not come to fruition," the statement said. "That is why we ensure that all opportunities are appropriately vetted and approved before any announcement."
 There's one thing missing from the new Trump hotel
Trump Hotels announced plans for the Scion brand in September. It is meant to showcase sleek design and appeal to young professionals. The Dallas hotel was expected to cost $50 million to build and open in 2019.
Scion hotels won't use the Trump name, but Trump critics are making sure that the brand is tied to the president, Kingston said.
Anti-Trump protesters in St. Louis stopped in front of a vacant hotel that Kingston said Sarimsakci had considered developing and chanted, "No to Trump Tower," according to a report at the time in the St. Louis Post-Dispatch.
"I think every Democratic activist group is going to make sure people know that Scion is a Trump brand," he said.
Sarimsakci told the Dallas council members that he is looking at different options for partners, Kingston said.
Trump sent the dollar sharply lower on Wednesday by saying in an interview with The Wall Street Journal that the currency was "getting too strong." Critics said the new president was trying to "talk down" the dollar.
Barry Bosworth, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution, said it was common in the 1970s and 1980s for presidents and their aides to try and move markets by commenting on the currency. But recent administrations have been much quieter, sticking to platitudes about their pursuit of a strong and stable dollar.
"I thought we had moved past this foolishness," said Bosworth.
It's not clear whether Trump was deliberately trying to weaken the dollar. But it's not the first time he's claimed the currency is too strong, having repeated the same talking point in an interview with the Wall Street Journal just before taking office.
"I believe Trump in his first almost 100 days has talked about the dollar more than his two predecessors during their eight-year presidencies," said Florian Hense, an economist at Germany's Berenberg Bank.
Why would Trump want a weaker dollar? A drop in the value of the currency would provide a boost to American exporters by making their goods appear cheaper to buyers in foreign markets.
That could, in turn, help alleviate the trade deficit that Trump has repeatedly expressed concern over.
"Trump recognizes that the strong dollar is part of the U.S. trade deficit problem," said Nariman Behravesh, the chief economist at IHS Markit. "He doesn't want the dollar to strengthen even further."
 Americans have become lazy and it's hurting the economy
But there are compelling reasons why recent administrations have tried to avoid commenting on the dollar: Other countries can interpret loose talk as an effort to manipulate the vital currency.
And even if the comments do succeed in moving markets, the effect is bound to wear off quickly.
"The Clinton, Bush, and Obama administrations came to understand that such a statement has a life in the market of about two days," said Bosworth. "Talk has no lasting influence in markets."
Market observers have largely interpreted Trump's comments as "jawboning" -- a form of manipulation. If it remains a habit, U.S. efforts to stop other countries from pursuing similar strategies could be undermined.
Trump, for example, repeatedly accused China of manipulating its currency during the campaign. (Trump abruptly reversed course on Wednesday, saying China does not manipulate its currency.)
Trump vs. Trump: Who to believe on the global economy?

Still, without changing economic fundamentals, efforts to talk down the dollar won't have a lasting impact on the currency.
"The dollar is strong today because the U.S. economy is performing better than most advanced economies and offers the promise of a higher rate of return," said Bosworth.
Hense said that Trump's actions will matter far more than his words.
"It doesn't matter what Mr. Trump says, if he follows on his tax reform plan, it will lead to stronger U.S. economy and a stronger dollar," he said.
Now, reality is setting in for how much Trump can really get done (and how fast) on the economy.
The big tax reform that was supposed to be done by August? Don't bet on it. White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer put it this way: "It still would be a great opportunity before they leave for August recess, but we're going to make sure we do this right."
Trump's campaign promise to greatly reduce -- or even eliminate -- America's federal debt? "That was hyperbole," White House budget director Mick Mulvaney told CNBC Wednesday. "I'm not going to be able to pay off $20 trillion worth of debt in four years."
Labeling China a currency manipulator on Day One? That's not happening (not even on Day 100). "They're not currency manipulators," Trump told the Wall Street Journal Wednesday in a major U-turn. During the campaign, Trump had said China has the upper hand against American manufacturers because it keep its currency artificially low.
 Americans have become lazy and it's hurting the economy
Repealing Obamacare and replacing it with something "something terrific"? That's up in the air. His first attempt failed in March when he couldn't gin up enough votes in Congress. Many business leaders hoped Trump would move on to tax cuts, but Trump surprised many by telling Fox Business on Tuesday, "I have to do healthcare first." Now, confusion abounds on what the next priority is.
Fixing America's "disastrous trade policies"? The White House has decided to study the issue. Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross announced a 90-day comprehensive trade review at the end of March. Much of the "trade war" talk has been dialed back after Trump's recent meeting with Chinese President Xi.
Spending $1 trillion on infrastructure? That's unlikely. Mulvaney said he and top economic adviser Gary Cohn are "assuming a $200 billion number."
"The Trump train appears to be coming off the tracks as the president backpedals on a number of issues," says Mike O'Rourke, chief market strategist at Jones Trading.
 U.S. dollar drops sharply after Trump calls it 'too strong'
Investors run to 'safe haven' assets again
There are also his flip flops on NATO (now he's really for it), China's trade surplus (he says he'll give China more favorable trade terms if they help out on North Korea), Syria (now the White House wants regime change there) and Janet Yellen (he bashed her on the campaign trail for propping up the Obama economy. Now he says he "likes her" and that low interest rates are good).
All this dialing back of expectations is causing a reality check in the markets.
U.S. stocks have stalled -- and even dipped -- since the S&P 500 closed at an all-time high on March 1. Even more telling is how investors are stocking up on "safe haven" assets like gold and government bonds.
Gold has jumped 7% in the past month, and the 10-year U.S. Treasury bonds are now yielding a mere 2.26%, a significant decline from 2.58% a month ago. The yield goes down when more people are buying bonds.
The key might still be tax reform
Since the election, the consensus view has been that Trump would do a major tax cut/overhaul (the biggest since the 1986 reform under President Reagan), scale back regulations and spend more money on the military and infrastructure. All of this was supposed to juice the economy -- and stocks.
 Trump's mixed messages on Obamacare subsidies could prompt insurers to flee
But now that thesis is breaking down. Any action on taxes probably won't happen until later this year -- or even 2018. Infrastructure and the massive budget cuts Trump wants are in doubt, and Trump's "get tough" foreign policy is causing some alarm that the U.S. could be headed for more war.
"The 30 Freedom Caucus members in the House have sent a chill through the Trump inner circle. It's clear they can block much of the Trump agenda, and Democrats seem lukewarm, at best, about cooperating," says Greg Valliere, chief strategist at Horizon Investments. "So Trump has to lower expectations."
Valliere still believes the "pro-business" faction of the White House, led by Goldman Sachs alum Gary Cohn, will prevail.
Business owners from Wall Street to Main Street would probably forget (and forgive) a lot of Trump's flip flopping and uncertainty if tax reform gets done. But all the indications are the White House and Congress are a long way from making that happen.
"We're talking about revamping one of the most complicated tax systems in the developed world, which would understandably take time to draft and negotiate across party lines," says Lindsey Piegza, chief economist at Stifel Fixed Income.
The effort to raise funds from global investors follows a crash in oil prices that turned the kingdom's massive budget surplus into a gaping hole. Just five years ago it was unthinkable that oil-rich Saudi Arabia would need to borrow money from abroad.
Saudi Arabia said in December its budget deficit for this year will reach 198 billion riyals ($53 billion), or 7.7% of its GDP. It planned to narrow the gap by issuing debt and tapping its foreign reserves.
The kingdom's foreign reserves, however, have also taken a hit. The latest data showed them sinking to $514 billion in February from $593 billion the same time last year.
 Saudi oil minister: I don't lose sleep over shale
Finding investors to buy Saudi debt doesn't appear to be a problem.
The Saudi press agency said Thursday that the government had received bids worth $33 billion for the new debt. The bonds, known as "sukuk," comply with Shariah or Islamic principles which doesn't allow the payment of interest.
"Saudi Arabia continues to amaze given the performance of the sukuk and the appetite, especially prior to the Easter holiday in Europe and the U.S.," said John Sfakianakis, director of economic research at the Gulf Research Center in Riyadh. "The bond will help alleviate pressure on foreign reserves and deepen the bond issuance program of Saudi Arabia."
 Saudi Arabia's giant oil IPO on track for 2018
Last year, the Saudi government revealed a plan, called Vision 2030, to diversify its economy. It also announced a fiscal balance program set to be carried out over three years. The government warned of dire consequences if it did not press on with dramatic austerity measures, including cutting more gas subsides and increasing taxes.
Shares of Wells Fargo fell slightly in after-hours trading Wednesday following the disclosure. They fell even more in pre-market trading Thursday after the company reported flat earnings in the first quarter.
 Who owns Wells Fargo anyway? You, me and Warren Buffett
Wells has been hammered in the last year, since the bank admitted that its employees created millions of unauthorized accounts for clients in order to meet sales quotas at the bank. Buffett has stood by the bank, calling it an "incredible institution" that had made a "terrible mistake."
Wells stock fell 14% in the month after the scandal broke in September. It has recovered and then some, rallying along with other banking stocks since Donald Trump's election.
Berkshire is Wells Fargo's largest shareholder. The bank is the second largest holding in Berkshire's portfolio, behind Kraft Heinz (KHC).
"Will there be a lawsuit? Yeah, probably," Thomas Demetrio, Dao's attorney, told reporters Thursday. He said both United (UAL) and the Chicago authorities who manhandled his client could be liable.
Legal experts say Dao has a good case against both parties once he decides to file.
 Man dragged off United flight has concussion, will file suit, lawyer says
As everyone now knows, Dao was pulled off a plane, bloodied and screaming, at Chicago O'Hare International Airport. He had refused to give up his seat on a flight to Louisville, Kentucky. United needed to free up seats for commuting crew members.
Trial lawyer Aaron Podhurst, who represents plaintiffs in aviation cases, said he believes Dao can make a strong civil case based on the assault and battery that appears to have occurred. United could be liable, and Dao could also sue Chicago authorities for use of excessive force, Podhurst said.
"This case is a very strong case for the passenger," Podhurst said. He added that he expects Dao would be able to secure a settlement.
Passengers agree to a litany of terms in any airline's "contract of carriage," which they agree to when purchasing a ticket. But the agreement doesn't sign away the right to sue if the airline treats a passenger in a manner that breaches the law.
"If you're injured, or dragged off the airplane, or falsely arrested, you can sue," said Andrew Harakas, head of the aviation law group at Clyde & Co.
 How United could have avoided this fiasco
Airlines do have legal protection if they act in a reasonable way when refusing to transport a passenger that is a threat to himself or other passengers, Harakas said.
David Katzman, an aviation lawyer with Katzman Lampert & McClune, said that standard doesn't likely apply in the United case.
"You could give this to a group of first-year lawyers and they could list all the claims this guy has," he said, naming intentional infliction of emotional distress in addition to assault and battery.
United CEO Oscar Munoz initially said that Dao was "disruptive and belligerent." But on Wednesday, Munoz walked back such language, saying he did not blame Dao for what happened. He told ABC that United did not give its managers "the proper tools, policies, procedures."
United said Thursday that Munoz and the company have called Dao repeatedly to apologize.
"We cannot stress enough that we remain steadfast in our commitment to make this right," the company said.
But on Wednesday, President Trump told the Wall Street Journal he was still considering whether to keep funding the subsidies and threatened to withhold them to force Democrats to negotiate. A day earlier, the administration refuted a New York Times article that said the subsidies would continue to be paid.
"The administration is currently deciding its position on this matter ... Democrats need to help solve this failed Obamacare plan," said Alleigh Marré, national spokesperson for the Department of Health & Human Services, in response to the New York Times article.
These subsidies are crucial to Obamacare's survival, at least in the near term.
The payments, made directly to insurers, were at the center of a court battle between House Republicans and the Obama administration. A district court judge last year ruled in favor of the House, finding the subsidies were illegal because Congress never appropriated the money. The Obama administration filed an appeal, and the subsidies continue to be paid while GOP lawmakers and Trump officials work out a settlement.
Some 7 million people receive the subsidies, or 58% of those who signed up for Obamacare coverage for 2017. The payments are expected to cost $7 billion this year.
If the subsidies stop, insurers will likely try to pull out of the Obamacare exchanges immediately.
 Aetna pulls out of another Obamacare market for 2018
But even if they continue, the uncertainty over their future is a main reason carriers are reconsidering their participation next year. Already three insurers -- Humana (HUM), Aetna (AET) and Wellmark, said they are pulling out of some or all Obamacare markets. More carriers are expected to announce their decisions soon.
The Trump administration doesn't have much more time to waffle. Insurers must file their 2018 policies and premiums with state regulators in coming weeks. Getting a firm commitment on the subsidies is their top priority.
"Plans need more certainty," said Kristine Grow, spokeswoman for America's Health Insurance Plans, a top industry lobbying group. "As plans make decisions for 2018, they do so with a view of wanting to serve consumers in the market for the full year. That's why it's so important to know what will happen with [the subsidies] long term."
 Trump threatens to stop payments so Democrats negotiate
Insurers are ratcheting up the pressure on both Trump and Congress. On Wednesday, the two leading insurance industry associations joined with the American Medical Association, the American Hospital Association, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and other medical and corporate interest groups to press Republicans on the issue.
"The most critical action to help stabilize the individual market for 2017 and 2018 is to remove uncertainty about continued funding for cost sharing reductions," the groups wrote, noting that premiums could rise 15% for those buying coverage both on and off the exchange if the subsidies disappear.
Called the Liberty Defense Project, the funding is part of a public-private partnership with the Carnegie Corporation of New York and the Ford Foundation. So far, the non-profit organizations have contributed $1.5 million, making the total funds available $11.5 million.
 How much it costs ICE to deport an undocumented immigrant
"During these stormy times, it's critical that all New Yorkers have access to their full rights under the law," New York Governor Andrew Cuomo said when he first announced the program.
The Liberty Defense Project will work with 182 advocacy groups and legal entities to provide attorneys to immigrants.
To qualify, an immigrant's household income must be below 200% of the federal poverty line and must not already be represented by a lawyer, said Oren Root, director of immigration and justice at the Vera Institute of Justice, a nonprofit social justice policy group based in New York City.

The Vera Institute is set to receive $4 million -- the largest slice of the funds from the state, according to the budget.
"This funding is significant in that we will now be able to represent all detained people in the State of New York," Root said.
Previously, the legal defense services Vera arranged for immigrants were funded by the New York City Council. Last year, the organization received $650,000 through the city's New York Immigrant Family Reunification Project.
 A guide for undocumented parents fearing deportation
Since 2013, all of the city's eligible undocumented immigrants could secure a public defender through the New York Family Immigrant Reunification Project, Root said. Of those immigrants who had legal representation, roughly 30% were able to remain in the country, Root said.
Outside of the city, Vera said it funded less than 20% of the need in New York State's three other immigration courts: Batavia, Buffalo, and Fishkill, Root said.
Last year, nearly 4,400 immigrants in New York were deported after appearing in court, according to TRAC, a database of information on the staffing, spending and enforcement activities of the federal government that's run by Syracuse University.
TRAC reviewed nationwide data on immigration hearings for women with children in 2015. Without representation, 98.5% of the cases were ordered to be deported. With legal representation, that percentage dropped to 73.7%.
 Low-skilled immigration is petering out
Other groups that will receive funds from the state include The Hispanic Federation, the Catholic Charities Community Services Archdiocese of NY, the New York Immigration Coalition, the Northern Manhattan Coalition for Immigrants Rights and the Empire Justice Center.
The funds may be used for legal services, case management, English-as-a-second-language, job training and placement assistance and other employment-related services. However, the vast majority of the funding will go toward legal services, said Frank Sobrino, a spokesman for the governor's office.
"The $10 million in the budget is a good start and an important investment," said Steve Choi, executive director of the New York Immigration Coalition. "But there are still major gaps in legal services. There are thousands of New Yorkers who are not detained, but face deportation and might have relief, but can't afford lawyers,"
New York is the first state to provide free legal services to immigrants, but California and several cities -- including San Francisco, Chicago, and Washington, D.C. -- have begun efforts to design similar programs, Root said.
Each deportation conducted by ICE cost taxpayers an average of $10,854 in fiscal 2016, an official from the agency told CNNMoney. This amount includes everything from housing and feeding a detainee to transporting him back to his home country.
 New York to provide lawyers for immigrants facing deportation
Here's how the experts break down the costs:
Apprehension
Last year, the majority of ICE's removals -- 175,000 -- happened at the border or a port of entry. The remaining deportations occurred either because ICE agents conducted their own investigation or they relied heavily on local police forces. In 2016, ICE spent $129.4 million to identify and apprehend what the agency refers to as immigration fugitives.
Many city, county, and state law enforcement agencies coordinate the release of undocumented immigrants with ICE after arresting them for other offenses like traffic violations. This helps bring costs down dramatically, said Doris Meissner, director of the U.S. immigration policy program at the Migration Policy Institute and a former commissioner of the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service.
 Blocking funds from sanctuary cities easier said than done
"Typically, ICE officers are in county jails where they easily take criminal immigrants into custody once they've served their sentences," she said.
ICE's Fugitive Operations, which conducts its own investigations and raids, was responsible for a smaller number of arrests last year. According to TRAC, a database of information on the staffing, spending and enforcement activities of the federal government run by Syracuse University, about 15,000 arrests were made this way.
This is costly, however, because ICE will send "a team of six to 12 officers to a person's house and bang on the door all day," said Tanya Golash-Boza, a professor at the University of California, Merced, who specializes in deportation research. "And it's not just the raid itself, they had to spend hours preparing, investigating, stakeouts. It all adds up."
Detention
Detaining undocumented immigrants is the most expensive part of the deportation process because it entails providing food, shelter, medical treatment and other necessities.
According to DHS, ICE operates 112 of its own detention facilities in the U.S. It also works with roughly 500 other state and local jails, as well as private prisons, to detain deportees, reports TRAC.
In 2014, the average cost to hold one deportee in a federal detention center was $5,633, according to the Center for American Progress, a left leaning think tank. The average stay: 31 days.
And some costs have been on the rise. Last year, ICE spent an additional $345 million to accommodate "the surge in families with children crossing the U.S. southern border illegally," according to the DHS. Families in detention require specialized services, including education for school-aged children.
 Without immigrants, U.S. workforce would shrink dramatically
While some undocumented immigrants are detained for a matter of days, others can wait months -- or even years -- before they go before a judge or get sent back to their home country.
One reason: there isn't enough staff to handle the caseload, said Golash-Boza.
On Tuesday, U.S. Attorney General Jeff Sessions told a group of Customs and Border Protection personnel in Nogales, Arizona, that the Department of Justice will add 50 more immigration judges this year and 75 the following year. He also plans to streamline hiring, to reduce immigration court backlogs.
Legal processing
Between ICE and the CBP, about 450,000 undocumented immigrants were returned to their home countries in 2016, but only about 15% of them ever went before a judge, said Greg Chen, an advocacy director at the American Immigration Lawyers Association.
Undocumented immigrants with prior orders for removal or who have overstayed a visa waiver can be removed without a chance to argue their case in court, Chen said. But there are some cases in which they can ask for a court hearing, such as a request for asylum or an adjustment of their immigration status based on a family member's U.S. citizenship, said Golash-Boza.
They can hire their own lawyer. But unlike U.S. citizens, the government won't pay for one if they can't afford it, she said.
 Muslim immigrants say Trump is slamming door on our American Dream
Estimated costs for the government's legal proceedings vary from roughly $1,200 to $1,500 per case, according to research reports from the Center for American Progress and the American Action Forum.
Among cases that take the longest are asylum cases. On average, these can take about two years to resolve, Golash-Boza said.
Transportation
Mexicans caught illegally crossing the border for the first time are returned almost immediately because of proximity. Those who are from places other than Mexico wait in detention until transportation is arranged to take them back to their home country.
In addition to chartered and commercial buses, detainees are also transported by ICE Air Operations. These chartered planes can hold up to 135 deportees and most flights travel to the Caribbean and Central and South America.
"For Dominicans and Jamaicans there's one flight a month," Golash-Boza said. "Chinese deportees must travel on an American carrier and be accompanied by two marshals, who then must return, driving up the cost."
Some undocumented immigrants may come from countries that don't cooperate with U.S. immigration officials, meaning they may end up stranded in detention for months or years, Golash-Boza said.
ICE said it cost an average of $1,978 in fiscal 2016 to transport each deportee to their home country. It would not provide any further detail.
"He likes to talk. He's engaging. He asked me who I knew in New York," Gallagher said of his encounter with the president. Trump went on to tell Gallagher how he had been a donor to the United Way's New York chapter.
"He's like every president that I've met," said Gallagher, who has been United Way's CEO since 2002 and has worked with past three administrations, including Trump's. "It is lonely in these jobs, and as weird as it sounds, my guess is he's feeling, like who do I trust? And there needs to be a personal engagement with him if you're going to get a real exchange."
 Coal country's message to Trump: We want jobs of the future
Gallagher suggested to Trump that he gather all the big non-profit leaders together, just as he has been doing with corporate CEOs, to talk about ways businesses and non-profits can partner more.
"That's a great idea," Gallagher recalled the president saying.
United Way is the largest privately funded nonprofit in the world. It works in more than 40 countries and raises $5 billion a year to improve education, financial well-being and the health of tens of millions of people.
When asked what he'd like to see from the Trump administration, Gallagher said "tax reform and a policy that embraces building the middle [class] again."
"We're in a tough spot right now. We've lost social and economic mobility in the country," said Gallagher.
He noted that the U.S. doesn't have enough skilled workers to fill its growing number of "knowledge-based jobs."
"We're trying to figure out how to get, train people up from middle-skilled jobs," said Gallagher. "There's a skill shortage in the U.S."
Gallagher also noted that Trump's proposed budget cuts to several programs aimed at helping lower income people would cause an even greater divide.
 Warren Buffett: 'Talented and ambitious immigrants' make the U.S. economy great
"You can't cut dramatically the safety net programs that the administration is proposing to cut, and then say that you're building the middle class," he said.
Gallagher knows first-hand how much of a difference some government programs make. It happened in his own life. He grew up on food stamps and welfare.
He was also the first in his family to go to college and he long battled the emotional scars of an alcoholic dad.
"I learned to survive him, and survive the environment," says Gallagher.
In college, when he expressed interest in social work, Gallagher's father disapproved and told him he'd end up in the "trunk of a car." But that didn't stop Gallagher from pursuing a management training program at the United Way in Indiana.
In the last few years of his father's life, Gallagher went to visit him in Indiana. "[H]e was sober, and he had two visitors that day. One was a volunteer from Meals on Wheels, and one was a visiting nurse," said Gallagher. "I thought this is unbelievable. These are two organizations that we fund. That we partner with."
Legions of young people have grown frustrated. Many are still living at home, while others have left their families and moved to new countries in search of work.
The trend is thought to be factor in rising populism in Europe, which now threatens to upend the political establishment. One major test will come later this month when France votes in the first round of a pivotal national election.
CNNMoney spoke with young people across Europe to understand what life is like without work:
Edda Ferrara, 24
Country: Italy Youth unemployment: 35%
"I have a hard time accepting that I don't work," said Ferrara, who graduated with a nursing degree one year ago and dreams of working in a hospital emergency room.
Ferrara said bureaucracy and nepotism make it difficult for her and her friends to find work in Italy.
"My family and I made so many sacrifices for me to earn my degree. Unfortunately, this pushes me to want to leave Italy."
Currently, Ferrera lives with her parents and does some occasional babysitting.
"The minority of my friends work in their field of study," she said. "Many work in bars and restaurants, clearly doing totally different things than what they studied and originally set out to do."
Stelios Qerimaj, 23
Country: Greece Youth unemployment: 48%
"There are no jobs. Wherever I ask, I am told that there are people being laid off instead of hired," said Qerimaj, who has been looking for work as a car mechanic since completing his technical degree two years ago.
"I like cars a lot, maybe too much. This is what I always wanted to do," he said.
"For the last two years I've been doing odd jobs. During the winter, I work in construction when there is work. In the summer, I have been working as a waiter ... It is not what I want to do but when there are no jobs around you can't afford to be picky."
Qerimaj said he doesn't expect to find work in his field in Greece and is considering leaving the country. About half of his friends have jobs with very low pay, and the other half are doing odd jobs like him, "trying to do whatever they can to get by," he said.
Joao Lourenco, 24
Country: Portugal Youth unemployment: 25%
"[Employers] don't see young people as the future. They do not bet on young people," said Lourenco, who reluctantly started his Master's degree in mechanical engineering after being unable to find a job for months on end.
"I'm looking for a job, but it's not easy," he said. "I want a challenge. I don't want a job just to get a salary ... I want to feel useful."
Lourenco, who lives with his parents, said government programs designed to help young people get jobs have led to depressed wages.
"It's impossible to be well paid on your first job. They pay ridiculous amounts, even for people with engineering degrees," he said.
Bamody Camara, 22
Country: France Youth unemployment: 24%

"I come from a poor neighborhood [on the outskirts of Paris]. There's nothing for me, except cleaning [jobs] or things like that," said Camara, who said he's been looking for full-time employment for more than a year.
Camara said he's constantly sending out job applications but never hears back from prospective employers. He suspects some recruiters may avoid him because they can see on his resume that he comes from a disadvantaged area and assume "he's going to make mess."
"I'd like to have the same chances as everyone," he said. "I went to school, I just cannot understand why I can't succeed in life while others can."
Youssouf Ba, 22
Country: France Youth unemployment: 24%

"It was very difficult to find a job in marketing," said Ba, who recently landed a job as a project manager at a digital communications firm after searching for a full year.
Ba, who lives on the outskirts of Paris, said he sent out over 100 job applications and had to do a lot of networking to find the job.
"My company recruits a lot of diverse people and they are very open minded," he said. "It was my dream to work in this industry. And I succeeded."
Blanca del Valle Ortiz, 25
Country: Spain Youth unemployment: 42%
"After the financial crisis passed, people said there would be more opportunities to find employment. I don't think that is the case at all," said del Valle Ortiz, who recently quit her part-time waitressing job in Madrid to focus on finding work as an environmental engineer.
Del Valle Ortiz studied environmental science as an undergraduate and received a Master's in waste management in September 2016. She spends hours each day sending out job applications. She's even considering moving to Ireland or Denmark in order to find work.
"Companies demand too much previous work experience for an entry level job, but they do not give us the initial opportunities and we can't enter the job market," she said. "They're creating a vicious cycle."
Duarte Amaral, 22
Country: Portugal Youth unemployment: 25%
"I went to college five years ago to do a three-year course. But I had to work, [which slowed down my studies]," said Amaral, who now hopes to complete a Bachelor's degree in theater this year.
He'd love to run a theater company or become a famous actor, but feels those dreams are unattainable because it's difficult to break into the industry. He said teaching could be a fall-back plan.
"It's not as hard to find a job like it was two years or five years ago," he said. "But people are still struggling."
Youth unemployment in Portugal has only recently dipped back below 30%.
"I'm getting optimistic. But not as an artistic creator ... there's not room for creative types," he said.
-- Valentina Di Donato, Elinda Labropoulou and Saskya Vandoorne contributed to this report.
Last week, JPMorgan (JPM) CEO Jamie Dimon struck an optimistic note in his annual letter to shareholders, bragging about his bank's monster balance sheet.
Wells Fargo (WFC), meanwhile, is still feeling the effects of its fake accounts debacle. The $110 million settlement with wronged customers agreed in March might help it move beyond the scandal.
2. China trade grows: China posted stunning growth in trade last month, beating analyst expectations by a mile.
"The latest trade data point to buoyant external demand but suggest that domestic demand may have started to cool," said Julian Evans-Pritchard, China economist at Capital Economics.
Exports grew 22% in yuan terms over the previous year in March. Imports also grew by 26%, but that was actually slower than the 34% average increase posted in January and February.
3. OPEC keeps cutting: New data from the International Energy Agency show that OPEC countries are sticking with an agreement reached with other producers aimed at cutting production.
The oil cartel is now working on a proposal to extend the production cuts beyond June.
"At half time in the six-month deal, OPEC achieved an average 99% of its target after Saudi Arabia -- along with Kuwait, Qatar and Angola -- cut by more than agreed," the agency, which monitors energy trends for the world's richest countries, said in its report.
Oil dropped 0.4% to just below $53 per barrel.
4. Global market overview: U.S. stock futures were lower Thursday ahead of the long weekend. U.S. markets are closed Friday.
The dollar and U.S. Treasury yields dropped Wednesday after President Trump told the Wall Street Journal that the dollar was "getting too strong." The dollar continued to fall early Thursday.
European markets opened lower, while Asian markets ended the session mixed.
The Japanese yen and gold, seen as safe haven assets by investors, both strengthened.
The Dow Jones industrial average closed 0.3% lower on Wednesday, while the S&P 500 shed 0.4% and the Nasdaq declined 0.5%.
Before the Bell newsletter: Key market news. In your inbox. Subscribe now!
5. Economics: Initial U.S. jobless claims for the week of April 8 will be reported at 7:30 a.m. ET.
The Bureau of Labor Statistics is set to release its producer price index reports for March at 8:30 a.m. ET.
The University of Michigan will release its consumer sentiment data for April at 9 a.m. ET.
Download CNN MoneyStream for up-to-the-minute market data and news
6. Coming this week:
Thursday -- JPMorgan (JPM), Wells Fargo (WFC) and Citigroup (C) release first quarter earnings Friday -- New York International Auto Show kicks off
"This investor group should buy Ford stock," Musk wrote. "Their governance is amazing."
The Ford family maintains effective control over the automaker through ownership of a separate class of stock. The shares gives them 40% of voting power, an arrangement that has been criticized in recent years.
Musk's dig at Ford (F) comes after Tesla surpassed it in market value last week. This week, Tesla (TSLA) briefly became the most valuable carmaker in America when it overtook GM for a while.
 Tesla just became the most valuable carmaker in America
Tesla's stock declined 3.9% on Wednesday, but it's still up about 39% so far this year.
Musk tweeted that he had already said Tesla would add new independent members to the board. He said the announcement would come soon, but had nothing to do with the investor group.
@Reuters Besides, I already said we'd add more independent members during SCTY merger. Will announce soon, but this group has nothing to do with it.

A Tesla spokesperson said the company is "actively engaged in a search process for independent board members."
 The Chinese tech giant that's backing Tesla
Reuters reported that the investor group also wants Tesla's directors to be re-elected each year.
"We expect that as companies make the transition to publicly-traded status, the governance structures and practices in place at the time of the IPO will evolve to align with the company's changing strategy," Reuters cited the letter as saying. "However, Tesla's seven-member board is largely unchanged from its pre-IPO days."
Tesla went public in 2010.
@Reuters This investor group should buy Ford stock. Their governance is amazing ...
The investor letter had five signatories, Reuters reported, including the California State Teachers Retirement System, Hermes Equity Ownership Services and CtW Investment Group. Those three didn't respond to requests for comment.
Tesla doesn't sell nearly as many cars as major automakers such as Ford and GM. But investors seem excited about Tesla's upcoming Model 3 car, which could help make Tesla a more mainstream auto company instead of just a luxury electric car maker.
Of course, it's good for some passengers, too: Of the 475,000 people who were bumped off flights on the 12 largest airlines last year, 91% did it voluntarily, agreeing to take cash or a travel voucher and a seat on a later departure. Sometimes even in first class.
"There's a lot of people who make a ton of money being bought off airplanes," David Neeleman, the founder and former CEO of JetBlue (JBLU), told CNN on Wednesday.
But far more important, overbooking is critical to how airlines make money and how they manage the hundreds of millions of people crossing the nation's skies every year.
Airlines sell more seats than they have because they are counting on a certain number of passengers not to make the flight as planned.
If more people show up at the gate than there are seats, it's a better deal for the airlines to compensate a handful and rebook them. Most passengers who agree to be bumped receive vouchers rather than cash, which limits the cost to the airline.
"I don't think customers realize how many people really do not show up for flights and how much money overbooking keeps fares a little bit lower than they would otherwise be," Ben Baldanza, the former CEO of Spirit Airlines (SAVE), told CNN.
Last year, U.S. airlines filled 82% of seats with paying passengers, a statistic known as load factor. That was close to a record.
 Here's how much airlines will pay you to give up your seat
Banning overbooking would reduce load factor, and airlines would try to compensate, said Philip Baggaley, senior airlines credit analyst for Standard & Poor's. That could mean higher fares or higher fees, making it more expensive to miss flights.
About 40,000 passengers were involuntarily bumped from flights at the biggest carriers last year, meaning they were reassigned after the familiar back-and-forth of gate agents calling out voucher amounts and asking for volunteers.
Those 40,000 account for 0.004% of passengers on those airlines.
The passenger dragged off the United (UAL) plane in Chicago was forced to give up his seat not because of traditional overselling but because another kind of overbooking: A crew needed to commute for a flight the following day, and the flight was full.
The debacle that followed has triggered calls for Congress to investigate or for airlines to change their ways.
"My concern now is that someone in Congress says 'OK, let's make a law, now nobody can overbook.' That wouldn't be good for anybody," said Neeleman, the JetBlue founder.
 How United could have avoided this fiasco
New Jersey Governor Chris Christie told CNN on Wednesday that President Trump should "stop the overbooking until we set some more different rules about how the airlines can conduct themselves."
President Trump told The Wall Street Journal that airlines should not be prevented from overselling flights.
In any event, it's unlikely.
Not allowing overbooking and bumping would also make it more difficult for airlines to recover from problems such as storms or computer outages, which lead to canceled flights and the need to rebook passengers.
On a conference call with investors and reporters, Delta (DAL) CEO Ed Bastian called overbooking a "valid business process."
"It's not a question of if you overbook," he said. "It's how you manage the overbooking situation."
The dollar hit its highest level in 13 years shortly after Trump won the election. It was widely viewed as a sign that investors believe America will grow faster than other parts of the world.
But now the dollar might be getting too mighty. The president is worried that US businesses, especially manufacturers, won't be able to compete. American goods are more expensive relative to European or Japanese products when the dollar's value is too high.
"It's very, very hard to compete when you have a strong dollar and other countries are devaluing their currency," Trump said.

 Americans have become lazy and it's hurting the economy
On the campaign trail, Trump frequently slammed China for purposefully weakening its currency, the yuan, to make its goods cheaper on the world market.
He vowed to label China a "currency manipulator" on Day One of his presidency, the equivalent of saying that China cheats. That didn't happen, but the president continued to talk tough on China. In early April, he called China the "world champions" of currency devaluation.
But now, Trump is saying something very different.
"They're not currency manipulators," he said Wednesday.
The U-turn in the president's stance comes mere days after Trump and China's President Xi's first big meeting. The two countries are trying to work together to keep North Korea from launching missiles.
 Why Trump won't be branding China a currency cheater
Trump also acknowledged that China is no longer manipulating its currency, at least not in a harmful way to the US. China has actually been attempting to prop up the yuan lately so wealthy Chinese investors keep their money at home instead of investing overseas.
In addition to softening his tone on the dollar, Trump also sounded a lot more upbeat about Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen.
"I like her, I respect her," Trump told the Wall Street Journal.
Only a few months ago, Trump said Yellen should "be ashamed of herself" for keeping interest rates low. He said she was just doing that to help President Obama.
Now the president said he "likes" low interest rates and that he might even ask Yellen to stay on when her term expires in early 2018.
The easy answer is that United should have offered a lot more money until it found a volunteer to give up his or her seat.
"It's just a financial solution," David Neeleman, the founder of JetBlue (JBLU), said Wednesday on CNN's "New Day."
Other passengers say the airline offered $800 before choosing people to give up their seats involuntarily, and then sending in law enforcement when one man wouldn't move. United says it increased the offer to $1,000 and didn't get volunteers.
"If they had gone to $1,000, $2,000, whatever it would have taken, people would have raised their hands," said Neeleman, now CEO of the Brazilian airline Azul (AZUL). "There would have been a stampede to get off the airplane at the right price."
United (UAL) hasn't provided details of how it makes offers to passengers, but CEO Oscar Munoz said Wednesday that United policy denied the crew the flexibility they needed to find fliers who would voluntarily give up seats.
Federal law says airlines don't have to pay more than $1,350 to passengers who are bumped involuntarily. But that doesn't stop the airline from offering more to persuade volunteers.
Munoz told ABC's "Good Morning America" that the airline would review its rules to make sure crews were given the power to use their "common sense."
Other airline veterans agree the situation should never have gotten to the point of removing a passenger against his will.
"It seemed such a crazy escalation for what was essentially a relatively simple issue," Ben Baldanza, the former CEO of Spirit Airlines (SAVE), told CNN.
Munoz said the airline would never again use police to remove a paying passenger who is being bumped.
"To remove a booked, paid, seated passenger -- we can't do that," he told ABC. The airline has pledged a full review of its procedures by April 30. Munoz said airline employees would be given more flexibility to deal with similar situations.
"They all have an incredible amount of common sense, and this issue could have been solved by that," he said.
 United CEO - We won't let police drag people off planes anymore
When airlines have to bump a passenger off a flight involuntarily, it usually happens at the gate, not on the plane. That's what happened to almost all the 40,629 passengers who were involuntarily bumped from U.S. airlines in 2016.
"I think the key is managing it before you get to the boarding process," Delta (DAL) CEO Ed Bastian told reporters during a conference call Wednesday to discuss the company's earnings.
Neeleman agreed that the difficulty in this case was trying to bump passengers after the plane had boarded.
"It's always difficult for people working at an airport if you have to go on and get people off an airplane," he said. Neeleman said that on a flight he once took, the airline asked for volunteers, and when no one agreed to leave, the airline simply canceled the flight and ordered everyone off.
"They didn't choose to forcibly remove somebody, they just said, 'Everybody has to get off because we're not operating this airplane,'" he said.
 Know your rights - What to do if your flight is overbooked
An airline could use that approach if it needs to bump passengers who are already seated and are refusing to leave, said Brett Snyder, a former airline executive who runs the blog CrankyFlier.com. It could order everyone off the flight, then reboard all but the bumped passengers.
Snyder said airline executives he knows have suggested that option since the United fiasco, even though it would cause delays.
"Most of the time if you order someone to get off, they'll get off. That's what happened with three of the passengers in this case," Snyder said.
For his part, President Trump said Wednesday that airlines should eliminate their own limits on vouchers to passengers will be more willing to give up seats.
"You know, there's a point at which I'm getting off the plane -- seriously," Trump told The Wall Street Journal. "They should have gone up higher. But to just randomly say, 'You're getting off the plane,' that was terrible."
--CNNMoney's Jill Disis contributed to this report.
The options on the table are whether to extend the cuts by three months or six, the official said. Oil prices have been rising for a week on speculation about the cuts.
In December, OPEC and non-OPEC producers agreed to cut output by 1.8 million barrels per day for six months to help stabilize oil prices. The monitoring committee, led by Kuwait, which consists of both OPEC and non-OPEC members said last month it has been satisfied with the compliance levels.
It said 94% of the producers conformed in February to its target level, an increase of eight percentage points from the previous month.
 OPEC has pulled off one of its 'deepest' production cuts
"This demonstrates the willingness of all participating countries to continue their cooperation," OPEC said in a statement last month.
Saudi Arabia is cutting more than its promised reduction to less than 10 million barrels a day.
The production cuts -- made from a very high baseline -- were designed to support prices and ease the budget pressure being felt by oil-producing countries.
The strategy seems to have worked, and oil prices have stabilized around $50 a barrel -- after dropping dramatically last year to almost $26 a barrel.
However, higher prices are stimulating investment and production elsewhere, including the United States.
In its monthly report, OPEC said on Wednesday the forecast for US supply was revised upward by 200,000 barrels, or an additional 540,000 barrels a day. That is "due to expected higher rig counts, and higher well completions, as well as greater access for producers to land and capital."
Correction: An earlier version of this story misstated the increase in compliance achieved by major producers as part of their agreement to curb output.
For an algebra class, the musical notes are labeled on a piano's keys. Students are taught to count the movements from one note to the other to solve math problems.
For example, to play a note in Justin Timberlake's hit song "Mirrors," the class may follow the sequence below:
"Where x equals 2
B + x = ____
B + 2 = E♭ (E flat)"
To solve the equation, students start at B then move two notes to the right. Where they land is the answer -- in this case E flat. With subtraction, rather than move to the right, they move to the left.
"I love seeing that 'aha!' moment in students," says Blackwell. "The lightbulb -- the moment when they finally understand something they've been struggling with."
From 'mathphobia' to math teacher
Blackwell studied classical and jazz piano starting at age 5. But while he got As and Bs in the arts in school, he says he had a "mathphobia" and got Bs and Cs in math classes.
"I was unsure of myself because math was taught to me as a subject to be feared," said Blackwell. "Playing piano helped me get over that phobia."
In his sophomore year of college, he had an epiphany that helped him bridge the gap between the two subjects.
Blackwell was performing music at a friend's wedding when someone came up and asked him to explain how to play the piano. He realized he was using math terminology rather than music theory to explain it.
"I noticed that I substituted the word 'half step' [a common term used in music] for the word 'half' so that I could create a visual for him to play," Blackwell explains. "It was a counting method."
The experience inspired him to create a curriculum using music to teach math to junior high and high school students. He started by teaching it for free at a local middle school.
Meanwhile, he pitched the program to every school he could think of in and around Atlanta, where he lived, and Connecticut, where he grew up. Within six months, South Cobb High School in Georgia became his first paying client.
He kept pitching school principals and superintendents and more schools began picking up the program. As demand grew, he realized he needed a business plan and launched Make Music Count. He also started hiring college upperclassmen to serve as instructors.
A professor who mentored Blackwell in those early days admits she could never have envisioned how successful the business would become.
"I thought this was something he was toying around with as a side gig," says Dr. Ulrica Wilson, associate professor of mathematics at Morehouse College, where Blackwell was an undergrad. "Now he is hiring students I have now," said Wilson. "It's just phenomenal."
Since it launched in 2012, Make Music Count has seen its annual revenue soar from a mere $12,000 to nearly $250,000. What schools pay for the program depends on their budget, but typically Blackwell charges $10,000 for a 10-week program where classes are taught twice a week.
The program is now offered at 37 schools along the East Coast and has even attracted the attention of school officials in London, Dubai and Mumbai. To get more students access to the curriculum, Make Music Count is developing an app that's expected to launch this summer.
For Blackwell, the takeaway is what's so appealing about the program.
"Every day I stand in front of kids who are just like me and that's one thing about my business that I love," said Blackwell. "Every day I'm reminded of why I'm doing this, and how important this work is."
"If policymakers attempt to address job losses at home with severe restrictions on imports, trade cannot help boost growth and may even constitute a drag on the recovery," said Roberto Azevedo, director general of the WTO.
The WTO said trade growth may be as little as 1.8% this year, or as high as 3.6%, depending on policies governments choose to implement.
Trump isn't alone in advocating trade policies to protect jobs at home. Right-wing politician Marine Le Pen in France is running for president on a campaign to put French workers first.
Meanwhile, Brexit means Britain faces new barriers in selling into its biggest export market, the European Union.
Trump has already pulled the U.S. out of one vast trade deal in the Pacific, promised to renegotiate the NAFTA agreement with Canada and Mexico, and threatened to slap tariffs or taxes on imports.
In March, the G20 group of the world's biggest economies dropped a long-standing endorsement of free trade.
 Trump's quick wins on China trade won't wipe out the deficit
Azevedo admitted that free trade can cause "some economic dislocation in certain communities," but said the advantages in terms of boosting economic growth are much more significant.
The head of International Monetary Fund, Christine Lagarde, said on Wednesday that one of the biggest risks facing the global economy is "the sword of protectionism hanging over global trade."
 Mexico doubles down on pivot away from U.S.
The WTO said there were two reasons for the unusually weak trade growth last year. It said that investment spending slumped in the U.S.
Meanwhile, China continued to shift its economy away from relying on exports to a new model based on consumer spending. And the demand for imports in China has declined, as the country sources more goods domestically.
One such collector is Mohammed Al Baker. He made his first serious purchase about three years ago. It was by a Lebanese artist.
"I saw his work on social media and I got obsessed with it," the former Qatari banker said. "I lost sleep trying to find this specific art work from this specific artist."
Since then his collection of Arab, Iranian and Western art has grown to about 40 paintings, including the work of American contemporary artist George Condo. His most sentimental purchase was from a friend, an emerging Palestinian/Saudi Arabian artist, Dana Awartani.
"I don't gamble with art," he told CNNMoney. "Most of the artists within my collection are institutional artists... at least this gives your collection a solid base."

Al Baker says he spent between $2,000 and $500,000 for each art work. Some are in secure storage in Europe, while others hang in family homes.
His story is repeated many times across the region, driving rapid growth in the art market over the past decade.
 'Pink Star' diamond sells for record $71.2 million at auction
Sotheby's says the number of Middle Eastern clients participating in its global sales has risen by 76% over the past five years. The surge in interest from the United Arab Emirates is even stronger -- participation there is up 157%.
Auction houses cash in
That's why the venerable auction house opened its first gallery in the region in Dubai last month.
"We've studied the numbers closely and in terms of capital allocation it makes perfect sense for us to be opening at this time," said Edward Gibbs, Sotheby's chairman for the Middle East and India. "The statistics... have built a compelling case for building a compelling presence in the region."
Rival house Christie's said its Middle Eastern Art sale in Dubai last month generated more than $8 million and set new world auction records for 18 artists.
As the commercial capital of the UAE, Dubai has also become the hub for the regional art scene. To support the growth, the city has set aside 500,000 square feet, or 11.5 acres, for art spaces, galleries and creative businesses.
The annual fair, Art Dubai, offers a showcase for dozens of galleries from around the world, such as London-based Victoria Miro, Sfeir-Semler from Hamburg and Beirut, and Krinzinger from Vienna.
"The [region's] former cultural capitals were places like Baghdad, Beirut, Damascus, Cairo," said Myrna Ayad, fair director at Art Dubai. "But due to political and economic challenges, the dynamic shifted and it's now here in the Gulf... Dubai, Sharjah, Abu Dhabi, Doha, even Jeddah are now culturally active."
 The high stakes life of a top auctioneer
Art Dubai's 11th fair, which ended in March, witnessed the strongest sales numbers to date.
"We sold most of [the art at our] booth... within hours of opening," said Glenn Scott Wright, co-director of Victoria Miro gallery. Prices ranged from $20,000 to $800,000.
Virtuous circle
Experts say the growth in demand is creating a virtuous circle that will support the development of regional art.
"The art scene is thriving in the Middle East," said Mohammed Afkhami, a seasoned collector of mainly Iranian art. "I sense a regional sense of pride when art from the region is discussed and the level of coverage in traditional and social media is making people more aware."
Afkhami started collecting in 2005. Two years later, he paid a record price -- $601,000 -- for a work by a living Iranian artist, Farhad Moshiri. The work, Yek Donia, depicts the world using 90,000 Swarovksi crystals.

Afkhami keeps most of his collection in storage, with a few pieces at home or in galleries around the world. But he doesn't think of art as an investment and has no plans to sell.
"I continue to buy works except the only difference is that I am searching for more rare works today than in the earlier phase of the collection where I was building it up more broadly."
Al Baker, on the other hand, has already sold the very first piece he so desperately wanted, for a tidy 30% profit.
"I did make money and this was one of the reasons why I had to sell it," he said.
Correction: An earlier version of this story misstated when Mohammed Afkhami paid a record price for a work by a living Iranian artist.
"Innovation is painful. That's why we don't do more of it," Cowen, a professor of economics at George Mason University, told CNNMoney. His book makes the case that all of the upheaval of the 1960s and 70s caused people to strive for safety and the status quo in the decades after that.
"Just look at how people bring up children today. Often they won't even let children go outside," he says.
Even technology, the one area that has seen some innovation in recent years, has been mostly aimed at making us want to stay home and relax.
"Tech's great. It's fun. I've got four Amazon packages outside my door. But we have a problem with this precisely because it's enjoyable and comfortable," he says. "All this tech innovation encourages leisure and staying at home."
 Meet Khe Hy, the Oprah for Millennials
Trump is the 'great reset'
Cowen believes we've gone too far in trying to create perfect, insulated lives for ourselves and our kids. Without realizing it, we've created bubble worlds that we're afraid to change. Segregation is rampant, he argues, both by race and by class. In the south, the percentage of black students in majority-white schools peaked in 1988 at 43.5%. Today it's just 23.2%, a level similar to the 1960s.
Some point fingers at the poor or the Rust Belt as the "complacent class," but Cowen argues just about everyone in America is part of this class. He points to America's "traffic problems and crummy infrastructure."
It's an issue almost everywhere in the country, yet despite years of complaints, massive change hasn't happened. He believes the same is true in U.S. education with so many students still not meeting basic standards.
Even in the high tech cities of Silicon Valley, people have shut themselves off from other Americans who don't have the same education and income levels. It's why so many were shocked by the election of Donald Trump.
 Coal country's message to Trump: We want jobs of the future
Cowen calls Trump's election an attempt at a "great reset." His book points out that white males earned less in 2015 than they did in 1969, once you adjust for inflation. He dubs it "one of the most stunning facts about contemporary America."
"I think those people [in the Rust Belt] are smarter than the coastal elites have been. They actually see the problem pretty clearly," he argues.
But he thinks Trump is going to be a big disappointment.
"I sometimes call Trump the 'placebo president,'" Cowen says. "For all the talk about change, so far he's shown he can't get anything done."

Prediction for the future
So how can America get out of this complacent funk? Cowen warns that looking back at history shows it usually requires a major trauma such as a war or huge natural disaster.
But he also says the U.S. does have an amazing ability to regenerate itself, so it's possible it won't take something so extreme to reawaken America's risk-taking mojo.
His prediction for the next two years is: "Trump is seen as an ineffective president. He's checked by Congress and the courts. Slowly but surely, the nation wakes up and we acquire a greater sense of urgency."
His advice to people is to take more risk in their own lives, whether it's in their careers or personal lives.
"If you're thinking of changing your job, maybe we should do it," he says. "The people who make change, end up significantly happier than those who didn't."
 U.S. unemployment drops to 4.5%, lowest in decade
He points to new research from economist Steven Levitt, the author of the widely popular book "Freakonomics." Levitt did a big experiment where he took people who were having trouble making a life decision and had them flip a coin to determine what they should do.
"Those who make a change (regardless of the outcome of the coin toss) report being substantially happier two months and six months later," Levitt found.
To help jumpstart more risk taking, Cowen is calling on Trump and Congress to spend more money on research (so called R&D). He thinks we need another man on the moon moment or, better yet, a major medical breakthrough. He also thinks immigration reform is key.
"Immigrants are the greatest risk takers of all. They are the least complacent class," he says.
CNN wants to know: What do YOU think is the biggest problem with the US economy? Email: Heather.Long@cnn.com with your take.
The letter was signed by economists from across the political spectrum, including Douglas Holtz-Eakin, who served under President George H.W. Bush, and Austan Goolsbee, the former chairman of President Obama's Council of Economic Advisers. The group also included six Nobel laureates.
 Trump's merit-based immigration system: Who would get in?
"Immigration is not just a good thing," said Eakin, who is now president of the right leaning American Action Forum think tank. "It's a necessity."
Last month, a survey of 285 economists at America's major corporations by the National Association of Business Economics (NABE) found that a clear majority believed President Trump's restrictive stance on immigration is a mistake. These economists favored more "relaxed immigration policies" that they said would help boost the economy and noted that fixing the H-1B visa program should be the priority over deporting illegal immigrants.
Earlier this year, Trump said he wanted to move away from a family-based immigration system toward a merit-based one, like Canada's or Australia's, which gives preference to immigrants with education and skills. However, merit-based systems also typically allow for some family reunification and refugees.
Eakin said immigration reform should include family reunification, as well as visas for both highly skilled and so-called low-skilled workers.
 Low-skilled immigration is petering out, even without a wall
"They don't all have to be STEM workers," he said. "Markets reward skills that have value and this day and age, running a machine tool is a skilled trade. You should have a visa system that recognizes market shortages and allows those skills to enter the United States."
The letter acknowledged that immigration does come at a cost, particularly for Americans with lower levels of education. But it said the benefits -- especially with smart immigration reform in place -- far outweigh the costs.
"We urge Congress to modernize our immigration system in a way that maximizes the opportunity immigration can bring, and reaffirms continuing the rich history of welcoming immigrants to the United States," the letter said.
The letter was organized by the Partnership for a New American Economy, a coalition of business leaders and mayors launched by former New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg and media mogul Rupert Murdoch, and the American Action Forum.
Delta suffered a five-day meltdown across its flight network last week, which left passengers fuming and its own crews waiting for instruction. Delta's shares were up 1.6% in premarket trading.
2. OPEC report: The oil cartel will release its latest monthly oil report later on Wednesday.
The main focus for investors is whether top producers are keeping their promise to slash output.
The Wall Street Journal reported on Tuesday that Saudi Arabia wants to extend the cartel's agreement to cut crude production for another six months when the group meets in May.
It's not all about the OPEC though. Investors will be also looking at the latest U.S. crude inventories report, set to be released at 10:30 a.m. ET.
An uptick in U.S. production could jeopardize OPEC's attempts to boost prices.
Oil gained 0.6% on Wednesday to trade at $53.7 per barrel.
3. China trade deal: President Trump has offered an incentive to China, saying a deal on trade with the U.S. "will be far better for them if they solve the North Korean problem."
Trump and Chinese President Xi Jinping agreed to hold 100 days of talks on trade during their first meeting last week.
The two leaders discussed the situation in North Korea and Syria in a telephone call, China's Ministry of Foreign Affairs said in a statement on Wednesday.
4. Global market overview: U.S. stock futures are higher.
European markets advanced in early trading, while Asian markets were mixed.
The Dow Jones industrial average closed flat on Tuesday. The S&P 500 shed 0.1% and the Nasdaq lost 0.2%.
Shares in Whole Foods (WFM) are up 4.3% in premarket trading after reports that activist shareholder Jana Partners is pushing for a shake up at the company. Jana Partners is the grocer's second largest shareholder.
Before the Bell newsletter: Key market news. In your inbox. Subscribe now!
5. Economics: The U.S Treasury Department will release March federal budget data at 2 p.m. ET.
The World Trade Organization will publish its annual report and trade forecasts on Wednesday.
U.K. unemployment data released Wednesday showed the unemployment rate in February was 4.7%, matching the lowest figure since 1975. However, the data showed that real wage growth is struggling to keep pace with inflation.
Download CNN MoneyStream for up-to-the-minute market data and news
6. Coming this week:
Wednesday -- Delta Air Lines (DAL) first quarter results, OPEC monthly oil report Thursday -- JPMorgan (JPM), Wells Fargo (WFC) and Citigroup (C) release first quarter earnings, China trade data Friday -- New York International Auto Show kicks off
GE has booked $300 billion in revenue from its environmental initiative, called Ecomagination, over the past 12 years. Immelt said he believes in working to help protect the environment, and that's why he spoke out against Trump's rollback of environmental regulation.
And as a multi-national corporation, Immelt said GE (GE) had to stand against the travel ban.
 Trump's formidable foe on immigration: Corporate America
"We have a lot of people that live in the Middle East. We have a lot of people that travel. It's my duty to stand up for them," he said.
But Immelt, a member of Trump's manufacturing council, doesn't disagree with everything the president is doing.
"In many ways I agree exactly with what Trump is doing," he said. He pointed to the White House's promise to pursue tax reform and infrastructure spending, as well as regulatory reform.

Immelt also has faith in where the economy is headed.
"I still think the U.S. economy is on a steady economic growth pattern," he said, adding that economies around the world are looking stronger as well.
Subscribe: Fareed's Global Briefing
But he warned about reading too much into the rise in the stock market.
"When you go to Wall Street, it's ultimately going to be proven out in earnings of companies and cash flow more so than, you know, speculation of which law is going to get passed," he said.
The caucus is right that the GOP bill, formally titled the American Health Care Act, would have done little to lower premiums for most Americans, experts say. True, younger consumers would have seen their costs drop a bit but it would have been at the expense of older folks, who would have suffered huge spikes in premiums.
If @RepMarkMeadows, @Jim_Jordan and @Raul_Labrador would get on board we would have both great healthcare and massive tax cuts & reform.
The bill, as originally written, did not address the main reasons why premiums for many individual market policies rose under Obamacare: The sweeping set of consumer protection mandates it imposed on the insurance industry. Under Obamacare, insurers must cover those with pre-existing conditions, provide a comprehensive set of benefits and limit consumers' financial responsibility above a certain threshold. All of this pushed up premiums.
 Before Obamacare, some liked their health care plans better
(Most Obamacare enrollees are protected by federal subsidies that are based on their income and the cost of coverage in their area. Under the GOP plan, however, consumers could feel more of the pain since they would receive a tax credit that adjusts based on an enrollees' age, not by the premiums they face.)
In order to drive premiums lower, the Freedom Caucus wants to take an ax to two insurance mandates: The essential health benefits provision that requires insurers to cover benefits like maternity, substance abuse and prescription drugs, and the community rating measure, which prevents insurers from basing premiums on health status, gender or age in a specific area.
Now is the time to keep our promise--fully repeal #Obamacare and pass reforms that lower premiums for all Americans.https://t.co/8ilIbI1OO1
Eliminating these two requirements would likely lower premiums, but only for some consumers. And it would leave many enrollees -- particularly sicker ones -- on the financial hook for much more of their care. Also, it would allow insurers to effectively cherry pick the people they want to cover.
Without the essential health benefits measure, insurers could offer cheaper plans that don't cover as much. They would not have to pay for costly benefits, such as maternity or prescription drugs. They could also opt not to cover the treatments that patients with costly illnesses, such as cancer, diabetes and hepatitis C need.
That would work out well for young and healthy people who don't go to the doctor much. They could buy skimpy plans with low premiums.
But it wouldn't be so good for those who need care. They would need to shell out for all the services that their insurance policy doesn't cover. And they wouldn't be shielded by Obamacare's financial protections -- such as the annual limit on deductibles and co-pays -- since those would only apply to covered benefits.
"Premiums would be lower, but only because insurers would cover less, so out-of-pocket costs would be higher," said Cynthia Cox, an associate director at the Kaiser Family Foundation.
In the final hours before the GOP bill collapsed, the caucus convinced Republican leaders to weaken Obamacare's essential health benefits' measure, leaving it to the states to determine what services should be covered. But this move spooked moderate Republicans, who were concerned it would leave their constituents with less care and bigger bills, and led to the bill being shelved.
 Freedom Caucus leader says group holding strong against Trump
Getting rid of the community rating provision would once again let carriers base their premiums on an enrollee's health or gender. Again, healthy people would benefit from lower rates.
But young women might have to pay more since they typically use more health care services and could become pregnant. And sick people could be charged sky-high premiums commensurate with how much their treatments cost, leaving some unable to afford coverage.
Republican leaders were not willing last week to meet this Freedom Caucus demand, particularly since it conflicts with the broader GOP promise to protect those with pre-existing conditions.
"The goal of Obamacare and the [Republican plan] was to create a market that would be accessible for people with serious chronic illnesses," said Dan Mendelson, chief executive officer of Avalere Health, a consulting firm.
CNN's Lauren Fox contributed to this report.
Restaurants are Roth's passion. By 35, he had launched and sold three of them in New York. Roth's WestSide Steakhouse was his last one, and it was pivotal because it allowed him to expand as an entrepreneur.
"I had time on my hands to really think," said Roth.
His wife Sandy gave him a nudge. "She had worked at a Baskin-Robbins as a kid and always wanted to open her own ice cream shop," he said.
When Roth spotted a vacant store across the street from his apartment building in NYC, he bought the lease in late 2014 and surprised Sandy with it.
The husband-wife team transformed it into A La Mode's first -- and only -- ice cream shop.
Roth wanted it to be a brand everyone could eat. "It was the one thing I was adamant about," he said.
As many as 15 million people in the United States have allergies to nuts, eggs and other food products. Food allergies also affect at least two kids in every classroom, according to FARE, a nonprofit focused on food allergy research.
 This website helps parents keep kids busy
Roth's own nephew suffers from severe food allergies. Through his research, he learned that most commercially-produced ice cream isn't made in nut-free facilities. "There are so many people, especially kids, who can't have ice cream at all because of this risk," said Roth.
The A La Mode store opened in March 2015 with Roth making all of the ice cream in the store's back room. His wife, who designed the shop and converted one side into a children's clothing boutique, helped with customers.
The business sourced milk from a local New York farm and used a Vermont vendor to supply it with nut-free M&Ms, peppermint bark and chocolate skippers.
The store today sells a dozen rotating ice cream and sorbet flavors with fun names like "partly cloudy," a blue cotton candy flavor with marshmallows,"wired," a coffee ice cream with chocolate chips, and "pink sprinkle," a pink vanilla with rainbow sprinkles.
 Delivering healthy meals on demand
Roth relied on word-of-mouth to draw customers. For the first two months, the shop would get 15 to 20 customers a day. But traffic shot up dramatically after one customer posted a photo of the shop on social media. "It was a parent who was so happy his child, who has nut allergies, could finally have ice cream," he said.
As retailers jumped on board, Roth knew he had to ramp up production. He made a $1 million investment in a 5,000-square-foot factory in the Bronx and imported machinery from Italy. The factory operates five days a week with eight employees.
With the retail expansion, Roth expects the business to be profitable by the end of the year.
"We're just getting started," said Roth, who invested $3 million to launch the startup. But his quick success could attract copycats.
"My eyes are open to that," said Roth. "I say, 'The more the merrier.' At least this way we're creating awareness about food allergies and giving people with allergies a chance to eat delicious foods most of us take for granted."
That's more than the combined profit from the men's basketball programs at University of Oregon and South Carolina, and those two Final Four teams play in major conferences -- the Pac-12 and SEC.
 West Virginia factory worker wins $100,000 in NCAA bracket challenge
Not surprisingly, the University of North Carolina, the team that will meet Gonzaga in Monday night's final, is ahead of all three of these teams in revenue and profits. The perennial basketball powerhouse posted a profit of $12.7 million on revenue of $21.3 million. But you would expect the kind of money from the Tar Heels. Not the Gonzaga Bulldogs.
The 347 Division I schools had combined revenue of $1.6 billion from men's basketball last year. But just over half of that money is concentrated among the 66 schools that play in the five big money conferences. Virtually all those major conference teams reported a profit during the 2015-16 school year. But only one school in five at in the smaller conferences reported a profit.
A big part of the reason for this: The money generated by the NCAA tournament is distributed to the conferences, not directly to the schools.
The split is based on how many games are played in the tournament over a five year period by members of that conference. So the five major conferences that send multiple teams every year all are guaranteed to get a fairly big slice of the pie. Last year the NCAA gave a total of $205 million to all the conferences.
 Mount St. Mary's First Four win means a $3 million payday
The conferences spit the money relatively equally between their member schools, not just the schools that are playing in the tournament. So a school like the Big Ten's Northwestern, which never made it to the tournament before this year, can collect a fair amount of money just by staying home. The Big Ten figures show that Northwestern received $24.8 million from tournament distributions from 1991 through last year, or about $1 million a year.
Meanwhile, schools from the small conferences that might only send one or two schools to the tournament are never going to see that kind of NCAA payout, no matter how well they do in the tournament themselves.
All that is despite Trump's failure to repeal and replace Obamacare, a stumble that has raised doubts about his ability to push through the tax reform that has excited investors.
"Wall Street is still giving the administration the benefit of the doubt that they'll get something done on tax reform. The market has hung in there," said David Joy, chief market strategist at Ameriprise Financial.
Concerns about Washington drove the Dow last week to its first eight-day losing streak since 2011. But the slump was modest, and the Trump rally has since stabilized. After tipping into "extreme fear" mode last week, CNNMoney's Fear & Greed Index is back to "neutral."
If anything, the wearing off of Wall Street's post-election euphoria is a good thing for the long-term stability of the rally. Stocks have gotten more expensive in recent months because underlying earnings growth hasn't kept up with stock prices.
"I'm encouraged that the market hasn't continued to go straight up," Joy said. "That would be unhealthy."
 Here comes the best earnings season since 2011?
The first quarter showed how the Trump rally can be both streaky and calm.
In late February, the Dow closed at a record high for an incredible 12 days in a row. That has only happened two other times in the index's 120-year history.
Just weeks later, the Dow fell eight days in a row.
But market volatility remains low. The VIX volatility gauge is sitting at just 12, down from 22 right before the November election and north of 40 amid the turmoil of August 2015.
All told, there were only two days all quarter where the S&P 500 closed up or down by 1% or more. It was the calmest first quarter since 1972, according to the brokerage firm ConvergEx.
But will that continue? Don't bank on it.
ConvergEx chief market strategist Nicholas Colas told clients to get ready for "much higher" volatility, especially given an "unconventional president" who is having a "rocky start policy-wise."
 Trump's agenda is no slam dunk
While Wall Street took cues from Washington throughout the first quarter, there is reason to believe the focus will swing back to the fundamentals of the economy and earnings soon.
The key on the economic front will be whether the pop in optimism seen in consumer confidence gauges, CEO polls and small business surveys translates to actual spending.
The jury is out. While the Conference Board's consumer confidence sentiment has surged to the highest level since December 2000, Americans aren't exactly splurging. The Commerce Department said on Friday that consumer spending inched up by a paltry 0.1% in February from January.
The earnings picture looks brighter. First-quarter profits are expected to jump by a healthy 9.1% from the year before, according to FactSet. That kind of growth, the strongest since 2011, would help justify the recent advance in the stock market.
"Earnings are going to be extremely important," said Joy. "For this rally to persist -- or even hold at present levels -- you're going to need a pretty good first quarter earnings season."
"I should not have made that statement," he wrote.
During last week's interview, the secretary initially declined to give his preference for his favorite movie and acknowledged as a cabinet member he wasn't "allowed to promote anything that I'm involved in." But added quickly, "But you should all send your kids to Lego Batman."
 Democrat cries foul over Mnuchin's 'Lego Batman' plug
Mnuchin was an executive producer on the movie, which is a spinoff of 2014's The Lego Movie. His company, RatPac-Dune Entertainment, financed the film.
Friday's letter by the Treasury Secretary comes amid a backlash by Democrats and ethics critics, who have raised alarm over possible violations of government ethics rules by Mnuchin.
Senator Ron Wyden, the top Democrat on the Senate Finance Committee, has already asked the ethics office to examine Mnuchin's comments. Wyden said those remarks showed a "blatant disregard and disrespect to the office he serves."
The ethics office head Walter Shaub, Jr. wrote back to Wyden Friday. He said "I share your concern about [Mnuchin's] remarks." But because Mnuchin apologized and promised to be more cautious going forward, Shaub said he doesn't think further disciplinary action is necessary.
Shaub did express frustration that the White House didn't take stronger action against Trump aide Kellyanne Conway in February after she plugged Ivanka Trump's fashion brand on Fox News.
 The little-known ethics director who took on Trump
"I cautioned [The White House] that 'not taking disciplinary action against a senior official under such circumstances risks undermining the ethics program.' This latest incident seems to prove my point," he wrote.
Mnuchin has promised to divest his interests in the company within four months of being confirmed by the Senate, according to his ethics agreement. He has also pledged not to knowingly participate in anything that would impact the company's "financial interests" until his shares were sold.
"I take very seriously my ethical responsibilities as a presidential appointee and the head of the Department of Treasury," Mnuchin wrote.
"British people have difficulty affording to travel now," Branson said. "A hard Brexit will damage the travel industry severely. I just hope that sanity will prevail and that if it's going to damage Great Britain and the travel industry that somebody would own up to that fact."
The airline touched down in Seattle this week with new service from London, its first new city in two years.
At a press event, Branson wore a red flannel shirt -- an ode to Seattle's long-departed grunge scene. He stepped off a mood-lit Boeing 787-9 Dreamliner flight flanked by the airline's flight attendants wielding Union Jack umbrellas.
Four years ago, Delta Air Lines (DAL) bought a 49% stake in Virgin for $360 million from Singapore Airlines. The partnership allows Delta and Virgin to closely coordinate schedules and pricing across the North Atlantic. For example, in starting the route to Seattle, Virgin ended flights to Detroit, and Delta took over the route to London.
Willie Walsh, the CEO of British Airways' parent company, famously bet Branson "knee in the groin" in 2012 if Virgin Atlantic's brand survived five years of Delta's influence.
But the odds are not in Walsh's favor. Seattle was the first of three new flights launched by Virgin this week, including links from Manchester to Boston and San Francisco.
"We are flying on," said Branson, "We're certainly not sitting still."
Virgin is waging a war of many fronts. A trio of Middle Eastern airlines has matched its upscale passenger experience and a rapid U.S. expansion by European low-cost airlines is driving down fares across a crowded North Atlantic.
 Alaska Airlines is killing off the Virgin America brand
Virgin Atlantic is only one part of the global Virgin brand, which touches everything from mobile phones to trains and hotels, gyms, banking and eventually space tourism.
"Virgin Atlantic has carried the brand for quite some time," said Craig Kreeger, Virgin Atlantic's chief executive.
Virgin Group's myriad products "grow affinity for the Virgin brand, which makes it much easier for Virgin Atlantic to acquire them as customers," Kreeger said.

The Virgin aviation empire looks very different in 2017 than it did nearly a decade ago.
In 2009, the brand was spreading to all corners of the planet. At one point you could fly Virgin-branded airlines east starting in Los Angeles, stopping in New York, London, Hong Kong and Sydney, and then go back across the Pacific.
Today, Virgin America is entering its twilight years under new owner Alaska Air. Virgin Australia has consolidated a lot of its operations. A brief U.K. experiment with domestic routes didn't get traction and a Nigerian carrier has long since been shut down.
"I wasn't brought in to worry about the other Virgin airlines," said Kreeger. "It is not our vision to conglomerate into a Virgin international airline."
 It's a golden age for affordable flying. No, really
Virgin has been replacing its fleet with new twin-engine Boeing and Airbus airliners and is retiring the four-engined aircraft it once proudly trumpeted with the slogan "4 Engines 4 Long Haul." It has also shelved plans for flying the Airbus A380 superjumbo jet in favor of new smaller A350-1000 jets starting in 2019.
Hand in hand with Delta, Virgin has focused on offering offering regular frequent flights across the Atlantic and connecting U.K. passengers deep into the U.S. airline's network.
"We are a British focused airline. Our route network is created first and foremost around taking Brits to where we can make money carrying them," said Kreeger.
He said Virgin Atlantic is now trying to get U.S. travelers to spend their more-valuable dollars in the U.K. "London has never been a better bargain for Americans to come visit," he says.
And when you include charges, BlackBerry still lost $47 million in its most recent quarter and $1.2 billion for the full fiscal year. Revenues plunged as well.
It's well known that BlackBerry's phone business is essentially dead. BlackBerry is transitioning from a company known mainly for old-school smartphones with physical keyboards to a company that develops software for other phone makers.
And that shift appears to be going extremely well.
 End of an era: BlackBerry will stop making its own phones
CEO John Chen said Friday that the company expects to report a real profit this fiscal year. Not a profit after accounting for one-time charges. An actual profit.
Investors are also happy that the company is no longer burning cash. Not long ago, investors were worried BlackBerry was going to run out of money.
But it finished the quarter with $1.7 billion on its books, up nearly $90 million from the end of November.
The company's shift from hardware to software seems to be paying off. BlackBerry said last September that it would stop making phones itself and would outsource production of BlackBerry-branded phones to other companies.
It was a stunning admission of defeat for the firm, which was once so popular that people referred to its phones as CrackBerries. Former President Barack Obama and Kim Kardashian West were big fans.
 Trump tweets from an iPhone now. But will he give up his Android too?
But BlackBerry was late to the smartphone game, relying too long on keyboards and its proprietary operating system. Apple (AAPL, Tech30), Samsung and others in Google's (GOOGL, Tech30) Android camp vaulted over BlackBerry in market share.
Even Microsoft (MSFT, Tech30) -- which hasn't done all that well with its own Windows Phone business after spending billions to buy assets from Nokia (NOK), another former king of the handset world -- has eked out a bigger share of the market than BlackBerry.
Software and services now account for almost 60% of BlackBerry's overall sales. It's also a growing player in connected devices, the so-called internet of things.
Ford (F) is a key partner for BlackBerry. The auto giant uses BlackBerry's QNX software in some of its cars. And Ford just hired 400 BlackBerry workers to develop connected cars.
So even though BlackBerry had to concede defeat in the smartphone wars, and even though it may never again be CrackBerry, its new focus is giving it a good chance of survival.
 Ford to invest $1.2 billion in 3 Michigan plants
Ford found itself under attack in 2016 by then candidate Donald Trump, who falsely accused the company of planning to move all its operations to Mexico. But Fields has since improved relations with Trump. The company won praise from the president when it canceled plans to build a plant in Mexico, even though Ford is still shifting the production of its small cars south of the border.
Fields has been CEO of Ford since 2014, succeeding Alan Mulally, the CEO who is credited with turning Ford around, and keeping it out of bankruptcy when rivals GM (GM) and Chrysler went bankrupt in 2009.
Why has the peso enjoyed such a massive rebound? Investors believe the most severe of Trump's trade threats may not come to fruition. And Mexico's central bank has taken steps to buoy the battered currency.
Trump administration officials signaled in a draft memo to Congress this week that they don't plan a wholesale rewrite of NAFTA, the free trade deal between the U.S. Canada and Mexico.
Trump calls NAFTA a "one-sided deal" that's only benefited Mexico, and he's threatened to use widespread tariffs on Mexican imports and even withdraw from NAFTA. That spooked investors.
 Mexico raises rates for the 4th time since U.S. election
The administration now plans to seek relatively minor changes to the agreement. It is asking for the right to use temporary tariffs if an import from Canada or Mexico is causing "serious injury or threat of serious injury" to a U.S. industry.
Commerce secretary Wilbur Ross is expected to officially submit formal notice of the administration's intent to renegotiate NAFTA to Congress very soon.
And the toned down rhetoric has eased the peso's pain.
On top of that, Mexico is pulling out all the stops to stave off the currency's decline.
Mexico's central bank raised its key interest rate Thursday for the fourth time since the U.S. election. Higher interest rates can help boost a currency's value. The central bank also sold dollars to international investors to prop up the peso.
However, it's important to note that while the peso has rallied from the worst of its post-U.S. election lows, it isn't strong by any means. One peso equals only about 5 U.S. cents -- near an all-time low.
"If I was directly told to do so, I will withdraw from the United States," Yanai told Japanese newspaper The Asahi Shimbun this week when he was asked about Trump's Made in the U.S.A push.
Uniqlo currently has 51 stores in the U.S. Yanai said the company plans to open at least 20 more stores this year, although it's watching what Trump and Congress do on trade.
Yanai doesn't want to see a tax on foreign imports to the U.S . He argues any sort of tariff would raise costs and be bad for shoppers.
"We would not be able to make really good products [in the U.S.] at costs that are beneficial to customers," Yanai said in the Japanese news report. "It would become meaningless to do business in the U.S."
A Uniqlo spokesman added Friday that the retailer would "stay true to our core business values of offering the highest quality apparel at accessible prices."
As CNNMoney has pointed out before, American shoppers claim that they want to buy products made in the U.S. But in reality, they purchase things that are cheaper or perceived as better quality, regardless of where they were made.
 Trump is pushing 'Buy American.' But customers (mostly) don't care
Uniqlo is the latest foreign company to warn that there will be consequences from any moves to curb foreign trade.
And some experts worry that if Uniqlo and other companies pull out of America, that could make life even tougher for many struggling shopping malls.
Uniqlo and other fast-fashion chains like Forever 21, Zara and H&M are actually doing reasonably well while many traditional retailers such as Macy's, Kohl's and Sears struggle.
"Not only is Uniqlo a major retailer and employer in the U.S., it is also a major tenant of landlords in a landscape of retail distress," noted Peter Boockvar, chief market analyst at The Lindsey Group in Virginia in his morning note on Friday.
But before Crayola could give dandelion the pink slip, a Target shopper apparently spotted the announcement on a crayon box in the wild and alerted the internet.
Bye-bye Dandelion. I never thought you were a weed. 😢 Hasn't @Target ever heard of a #SpoilerAlert !!! @Crayola #crayons 😳 😱 😬 pic.twitter.com/t5P4glWplZ

 Who says coloring is just for kids?
Another spoiler: The packaging on the 120-pack, announcing the retirement, says, "Name the new color for a chance to win!"
Crayola didn't immediately announce which color would replace dandelion. But it did wax nostalgic with a crayon tribute video.
Our beloved Dandelion decided to announce his retirement early! There's no taming an adventurous spirit! #NationalCrayonDay pic.twitter.com/RMk6pw3jR2

The outcomes of these legal challenges threaten to create further consequences, including new fines, sanctions, legal costs and repercussions for executives.
All of this is on top of the $185 million Wells Fargo was fined in September by authorities for creating up to 2 million unauthorized bank and credit card accounts in order to meet unrealistic sales targets. The ensuing public outcry led to the sudden retirement of longtime CEO John Stumpf.
Just this week, Wells Fargo sought to remove at least one question mark by reaching a $110 million preliminary class action settlement to compensate impacted customers. Citing a desire to "move forward and avoid continued litigation," Wells Fargo dropped previous efforts to kill customer lawsuits by forcing arbitration.
 Wells Fargo fails community lending test
In a statement to CNNMoney, a Wells Fargo spokesman said the bank is "committed to restoring trust with customers and all of its key stakeholders." He pointed to major changes, including scrapping the sales goals, hiring Tim Sloan as its new CEO and stripping top execs of their 2016 bonuses.
But Wells Fargo still faces more than a dozen other probes, inquiries and lawsuits linked to the scandal, many of which were disclosed in recent SEC filings.

Independent Wells Fargo board investigation: The most immediate and potentially-damaging of these probes is the independent board investigation expected to conclude before the April 25 shareholder meeting. The board has promised the investigation will "follow the facts wherever they lead" and to make the findings public.
The investigation may result in additional disciplinary action against former or current employees, and could also be used as ammo for the other probes that are still going on.
Department of Justice: Wells Fargo is also grappling with the threat of potential criminal charges from the federal government. The bank confirmed in a filing that the DOJ is looking into the scandal. Multiple U.S. attorneys' offices are investigating and subpoenas were issued, a U.S. official told CNN in September. The DOJ declined to comment, citing its policy to neither confirm nor deny the existence of investigations.
SEC: Wells Fargo has confirmed that the SEC is also probing, though the bank's filings don't explain what, other than "sales practices," the agency is looking into.
Senator Elizabeth Warren asked the SEC to investigate whether Wells Fargo violated federal whistleblower protection laws. She cited CNNMoney's reporting about employees who say they were fired after calling the bank's confidential ethics hotline.
The SEC could also be weighing whether Wells Fargo committed securities fraud when it stayed silent about the CFPB probe into the fake accounts for at least six months.
 Fed official likens Wells Fargo fraud to mortgage crisis
Whistleblower and wage theft complaints: The Department of Labor said in late September it's reviewing whistleblower complaints against Wells Fargo. The DOL also said it was looking into allegations from former employees that the bank violated federal law by failing to pay workers overtime.
Internal review of retaliation claims: Wells Fargo is conducting an internal review of its confidential ethics line. The bank has already said that "a few" of the hundreds of cases it has reviewed have "raised questions" about potential retaliation.
Congress: The Senate Banking Committee continues to do oversight work on the Wells Fargo matter, and could accelerate those inquiries based on the results of the board investigation, a person familiar with the matter told CNNMoney.
The House Financial Services Committee continues to investigate Wells Fargo's sales tactics and its settlements with federal regulators, according to a person familiar with the matter. Another House probe, run by the House Oversight Committee, is also still underway.
California & other states: The California attorney general served Wells Fargo with a search warrant in October citing "probable cause" that the bank's employees committed "identity theft" during the scandal.
A Wells Fargo filing indicates that multiple state attorneys general offices have looked into the bank's sales tactics.
Internal Wells probes of possible more fake accounts: The Wells Fargo settlement with regulators only covered accounts opened between 2011 until 2015. Faced with evidence the fraud took place earlier than that, Wells Fargo agreed to review accounts opened between 2009 and 2010 as well. That review is ongoing.
Prudential insurance: Former Prudential employees filed a lawsuit in December alleging that Wells Fargo customers were sold Prudential insurance products at bank branches that they didn't want.
Prudential (PRU) told CNNMoney this week that a review it launched into the allegations remains "ongoing." A spokesperson for the California Insurance Commissioner confirmed that the agency continues to also look into the matter.
More lawsuits: Wells Fargo may be close to putting the customer lawsuits to bed, but an SEC filing indicates it still faces class action lawsuits from shareholders alleging fraud, and from employees alleging wrongful termination, wage theft and other misdeeds.
The bank's statement followed an announcement by Dutch prosecutors that they had arrested two people and seized assets including a gold bar and jewelry as part of a coordinated investigation into tax evasion in Australia, Germany, the U.K. and France.
Prosecutors did not identify the bank concerned, but said only one Swiss bank was involved.
"The suspects with undeclared savings in the above-mentioned countries all deposited their money in the same Swiss bank," the Dutch authorities said in a statement.
More operations are planned as the investigators sort through information about thousands of account holders. Dutch prosecutors said they were acting on a tip off about as many as 55,000 accounts abroad and nearly 4,000 in the Netherlands.
 Deutsche Bank fined for $10 billion Russian money-laundering scheme
A pricey car and expensive paintings were among the items seized in the raid on homes in The Hague and other towns in the Netherlands, the Dutch authorities said. Documents were also seized from the bank.
British tax authorities confirmed they had launched a criminal investigation into suspected tax evasion and money laundering "by a global financial institution and certain of its employees."
"The first phase of the investigation, which will see further, targeted activity over the coming weeks, is focused on senior employees from within the institution, along with a number of its customers," they said.
 Trump executive orders aimed at trade abuses
Trump didn't elaborate. He's following those words up by signing two executive orders Friday aimed at combating foreign trade practices that the White House says are abusive.
But Trump is going to have a tough job getting what he wants. Here's why:
Trade deficits
The U.S. deficit with China is by far the biggest. For goods and services, it stood at $310 billion last year, down about 7% from 2015, according to U.S. government data.
Many experts say Trump is right that China isn't playing fair on trade. But some of them are unsettled by Trump's obsession with the trade balance as a way of summing up economic health.
One of the executive orders he's expected to sign Friday will initiate a large-scale review of the causes of the trade deficits the U.S. runs with some of its largest trading partners.

 Why a trade deficit isn't like losing money
It may find that the deficit is a sign of a strong economy. When the U.S. was growing at 4% a year in the late 1990s, its trade deficit got bigger as American consumers bought up goods from around the world. And during the global financial crisis, between 2007 and 2009, the U.S. trade deficit got smaller.
China says it's doing nothing wrong.
"China does not deliberately seek a trade surplus," Zheng Zeguang, a vice minister of foreign affairs, said at a briefing Friday. "As the Chinese economy continues to grow and transform, our domestic market will expand and our demand for goods and services from other countries, including the U.S., will increase."
 How Trump could make the trade deficit look worse
What can be done?
If Chinese consumers start saving less and spending more, then the trade balance could correct itself.
That's likely to take a very long time. Trump will want a quicker solution.
But if he wants American firms to make their goods somewhere other than China, there's no guarantee they'll bring their factories and jobs back to the U.S.
 The truth about trade, American jobs and Donald Trump
Asian countries like Vietnam already look more attractive for low-end manufacturing industries like clothing and footwear, given increases in Chinese labor costs in recent years.

Many U.S. brands -- including the shoe firm owned by Trump's daughter Ivanka -- still use Chinese suppliers. Producing more of those goods in the U.S. would create low-paying jobs, but it would also make them more expensive, pushing up the cost of living for Americans.
Rather than putting up big barriers to U.S. markets, as Trump threatened to do on the campaign trail, American companies operating in China would prefer the president to pressure the Chinese government to make its huge economy more open.
 Why it would be tough for Trump to bring jobs back from China
Many jobs won't come back
Trump has also frequently blamed China for job losses in the U.S.
Most experts agree that deepening economic ties between the two economies cost some American workers their jobs in recent decades. But there's debate about the size of the impact -- and the picture is not that simple.

Some analysts say that many of the jobs would have left the U.S. anyway because China's economy was opening up to the world at a time when American corporations were already looking to shift jobs to lower-wage countries.
Other changes, like automation and better technology, are judged to have played a bigger role than trade in the drop in U.S. manufacturing jobs.
-- Steven Jiang contributed to this report.
The Neptune, New Jersey, couple recently re-enrolled in a policy that costs about $700 a month. They feel it's too much of a gamble to be uninsured, but wish they could go back to their pre-Obamacare plan.
"It took care of what we needed," said Stacey Albert, 38, who owns Ultimate Fit Zone gym with her husband and earns too much to qualify for Obamacare's federal subsidies. "We didn't use it that much. We just don't want to pay for all that coverage."
 How Obamacare affects everyone
The now-shelved GOP health care bill was geared toward stripping away Obamacare's requirement that insurers provide only comprehensive coverage, including mental health, maternity, medication and preventative care. Republicans argue that Americans have the right to choose what benefits they want covered -- including very few services in so-called catastrophic plans, which have low premiums.
Those skinny plans suited some Americans just fine. Many didn't even know the limits of the pre-Obamacare plans because they never used enough services to become aware of them.
"They made the Affordable Care Act so ridiculously overbuilt that it's killing people like me who pay for it," said Tom Buxton, 59, of Littleton, Colorado. "I don't need two doctor visits a year unless I want them. That should be my choice. I didn't go to the doctor for five years."
A self-employed business consultant, Buxton used to pay $666 a month for a policy for him and his wife, Jennifer. Each had to pay a $3,000 deductible before coverage kicked in. They paid out-of-pocket for the few medical issues they had.
After Obamacare began, their insurer, Golden Rule, offered them a plan for $1,200 a month with a $6,500 deductible each. Unwilling to pay that much, Buxton searched for alternate options. This year, the couple is covered through Medi-Share, offered by Christian Care Ministries, which meets the criteria for coverage under Obamacare.
 How Congress could kill Obamacare after all
"I was trying to find [a policy] that didn't cost me $1,000 more for less coverage," he said.
The couple pays $560 a month, with a $5,000 deductible between them. The catch is that it doesn't cover any pre-existing conditions for the past three years, so Buxton has to pay for physical therapy stemming from the hip replacement and shoulder surgeries he had last year. But he's okay with that.
For Greg Silvestro, the policy he had prior to Obamacare and the one he found on the Florida exchange for 2017 were pretty similar -- both have deductibles of about $7,000 and wouldn't be used much.
But there was one big difference: The Obamacare policy costs $338 a month, more than three times as much as his old plan.
"To me, it's the same thing: catastrophic coverage," said Silvestro, 40, a real estate agent and gym owner in Tampa.

He begrudgingly signed up for the Obamacare plan, but the huge price increase forced him and his wife to curtail their spending and standard of living. (A public school teacher, his wife is insured through her job, but it would cost $500 a month to cover him through her policy.)
The high premium also prompted him to look for alternatives. He learned about Medi-Share a few weeks ago and joined it. He now pays $188 a month for a policy with a $5,000 deductible.
"The bottom line is the fact that the coverage of all these plans is basically the same for me," he said. "However, the cost of Obamacare is substantially higher."
European markets are all negative in early trading, though the moves down are rather small. Asian markets ended the day with mixed results.
2. Rand rout: South Africa has fired its finance minister, sending the country's currency crashing.
The rand nosedived nearly 4% against the dollar after President Jacob Zuma ousted Pravin Gordhan, plunging the country into a new round of political turmoil and economic uncertainty.
Gordhan had built a reputation as a steady hand who expertly guided South Africa's economy.
Some of South Africa's biggest companies slammed the move, warning that it would have severe consequences for the economy, and could lead to the country's credit rating being downgraded.
South African financial services firms listed in London plunged. Investec fell nearly 9%, while Old Mutual fell 6%.
Before the Bell newsletter: Key market news. In your inbox. Subscribe now!
3. Trade talk: President Donald Trump will make the next move in his bid to reshape U.S. trade policy on Friday, signing two executive orders aimed at combating foreign trade abuses.
These new executive orders come a week before Trump is set to meet with Chinese President Xi Jinping.
China is America's biggest trading partner -- the relationship is worth about $663 billion annually. But the U.S. has a trade deficit with China because it buys a lot more of its goods and services than the other way round.
President Trump, who wants to shrink the deficit, warned this meeting "will be a very difficult one."
4. Earnings and economics: Blackberry (BBRY, Tech30) is releasing earnings before the open Friday.
The Bureau of Economic Analysis plans to release its Personal Income report for February at 8:30 a.m. ET.
The University of Michigan is releasing its March consumer sentiment report at 10 a.m.
Download CNN MoneyStream for up-to-the-minute market data and news
5. Coming this week:
Friday - Blackberry (BBRY, Tech30) earnings; Final day of the first quarter of 2017
If that actually happens, it would be the best quarter of growth in more than five years -- the highest since companies posted 11.6% growth in the fourth quarter of 2011.
John Butters, senior earnings analyst at FactSet, notes that much of the gain will be due to a huge jump in earnings for energy companies due to substantially higher oil prices than a year ago.
 Big Oil could be ready for a big comeback
But financials and tech firms are also expected to post solid gains in profits.
Assuming that companies live up to the hype, it will be interesting to see if President Trump will congratulate himself for the improved state of corporate profits. To be fair, he probably does deserve some (albeit not all) of the credit.
Consumer confidence is up, which could mean higher sales and profits for many companies. CEOs and the heads of small businesses are more upbeat as well. The jobs market continues to improve too.
"Good news feeds on itself. People feel better than they have in years past," said Kevin Norris, president of Univest Wealth Management.
But the Trump administration isn't exactly off to a good start with its legislative agenda.
Plans to quickly repeal and replace Obamacare have fizzled. That's led to questions about whether Trump will be able to get tax reform, roll back financial regulations, and also a big infrastructure spending plan through Congress any time soon.
And that could mean that earnings estimates for the remainder of the year could be way too high. Many strategists are predicting double-digit percentage growth in profits for the second half of 2017.
 Enough about Trump! Market tired of politics
"The second half numbers are more likely to be reduced as the year progresses," wrote Lindsey Bell, investment strategist with CFRA Research, in a report this week.
Bell thinks earnings growth for all of 2017 could wind up being just 6% -- compared to expectations of nearly 12% at the start of the year.
Stephen Wood, chief market strategist with Russell Investments, is even less bullish. He thinks 5% growth is the best the market could hope for this year. Simply put, he thinks investors got way too excited about how quickly Trump could boost the economy.
"Trump policies will be pro-markets," Wood said, but he thinks investors need to be "more subdued."
"I'm skeptical of there being policy implementation without potholes and bumps," he added.
The big wild card is tax reform.
If Trump and Republicans are able to quickly do something that allows companies to repatriate cash sitting overseas and bring it back to the U.S. at a lower rate through a so-called tax holiday, that could kick earnings into an even higher gear.
The hope is that firms like Apple (AAPL, Tech30), Microsoft (MSFT, Tech30) and Google owner Alphabet (GOOG) would use some of the cash to invest more in the U.S. -- build more plants and hire more workers.
But these companies would probably also use some of the money to repurchase their own stock -- and boost their earnings per share in the process.
"Estimates for 2017 may be a little frothy right now," said Jeffrey Schulze, a strategist with ClearBridge Investments. "But that's not taking into consideration tax cuts. CEOs are optimistic and talk about spending more. Guidance could be better than expected."
 South Africa rattles investors as roadshow abruptly halted
Some of South Africa's top companies warned that it would have severe consequences for the economy, and could lead to the country's credit rating being downgraded.
"If investors lose faith and trust in our economy, all citizens -- not just big business -- pay the price for this, in the form of higher inflation, decreased buying power as well as decimated savings, pensions and investments," the CEO Initiative said in a statement.
The CEO Initiative's members include the heads of Investec, Standard Bank, Telkom and top mining companies.
Investec shares, listed in London, fell nearly 9%. Another big financial firm, Old Mutual, saw its shares fall 6%.

Analysts warned earlier in the week that dismissing Gordhan and other key cabinet ministers could cause chaos.
"This would be the worst outcome for markets over both the short and medium term," John Ashbourne, Africa economist at Capital Economics, wrote in a research note on Wednesday. He warned it's likely to worsen tensions within the governing party, the African National Congress (ANC).
Zuma's deputy, Cyril Ramaphosa, criticized his boss's decision to fire Gordhan. And South Africa's main opposition party said it would try to remove the president via a vote in parliament.
"We therefore urge all political parties, including members of the ANC, to vote President Jacob Zuma out when [our] motion of no confidence is debated in the National Assembly," said Mmusi Maimane, leader of the Democratic Alliance.

Gordhan built a reputation as a steady hand who expertly guided South Africa's economy and promoted its business interests. He first served as finance minister between 2009 and 2014, and returned to the job in December 2015, much to the relief of international investors.
Zuma brought him back after sacking two other finance ministers within a month, a period of turmoil that hammered South Africa's markets and currency.
Gordhan was credited with helping stabilize the situation. Before this week, the rand had strengthened more than 20% in a year.

But Gordhan and Zuma clashed over issues such as the management of state-owned enterprises and the need for a big new economic plan, according to Ashbourne.
 Fraud charges dropped against South Africa's finance minister
In October, Gordhan described a move to prosecute him over fraud charges as "political mischief." He denied any wrongdoing, and the charges were soon dropped after widespread criticism from political and business leaders.
The president's office and the national director of public prosecutions repeatedly denied that the aborted prosecution was politically motivated by Zuma's intention to take control of the Treasury.
Gordhan's replacement is Malusi Gigaba, who until Thursday was the home affairs minister. He becomes South Africa's fourth finance minister in less than 18 months.
-- Eleni Giokos and David McKenzie contributed to this report.
The problem is that while both spending and revenue are projected to grow, spending will far outpace revenue.
The northward trajectory of spending is driven exclusively by two things: Spending on the biggest entitlement programs (primarily Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security) and interest on the debt.
The major entitlement programs, which fall under the category of mandatory spending because the levels are determined by formulas and number of beneficiaries, account for 10.4% of GDP today. By 2047, the CBO projects they will grow to 15.5% a year.
The president said many times -- and his surrogates have repeated his promise -- that he would not touch Medicare or Social Security.
Interest on the debt, meanwhile, will almost quadruple -- from 1.4% today to 6.2% by 2047. That's due to rising rates and the growing pile of borrowed money.
 Why tax reform and tax cuts aren't the same thing
By contrast, spending on all other mandatory programs and on discretionary programs (funding for which lawmakers decide on every year) are both on track to fall as a share of the economy.
Strong economic growth can alleviate the country's debt burden somewhat. But the CBO is projecting real GDP increases of just 1.9% a year on average for the next 30 years. That's a percentage point lower than the average of the past 50 years, and far lower than the 4% annual growth promised by President Trump.
The agency expects a slower rise in GDP thanks to slower growth of the labor force. That's mostly due to an aging population plus the fact that the number of women in the workforce has stabilized after increasing for decades.
The CBO also expects that rising federal debt will draw investors' money away from private investment.
Trump policies may make the picture worse
Trump has often complained about how high the country's debt is. But his policies and proposals don't do anything to address it.
The first part of his 2018 budget proposal calls for big cuts to domestic programs -- the smallest part of the federal budget. But they would just pay for his proposed increases in defense spending. So the cuts, which would have a big effect on the programs, would be a wash in terms of deficits.
Meanwhile, analyses of Trump's previous tax proposals found they could add $7 trillion to the debt in the first decade alone.
 Trump budget bemoans $20 trillion debt but does bupkus about it
The White House is now promising yet another tax reform proposal -- one which would offer tax cuts for the middle class and reduced tax rates and other changes to make businesses more competitive. But on Thursday, Press Secretary Sean Spicer said planning was still in the early stages so he couldn't say yet whether the final plan would be fully paid for or would add to deficits.
According to the document, a top goal of the White House is to be able to put tariffs (a code word for taxes) on Mexican and Canadian goods if the Trump administration believes there is "serious injury or threat of serious injury" to U.S. companies.
White House spokesman Sean Spicer downplayed the significance of the memo Thursday, saying at his daily press briefing that it's "not a statement of administration policy."
In the memo, which was first reported by the Wall Street Journal, Vaughn says the tariffs would only be "temporary," but the Trump administration wants the ability to use them to "vigorously enforce" bad trade by America's neighbors.
Vaughn's office refused to comment on the document. Robert Lighthizer, who Trump has tapped as top Trade Representative, is awaiting Senate confirmation.
Mexico's economic minister Ildefonso Guajardo reiterated Friday that Mexico would fight tariffs in any NAFTA renegotiation.
"We must deliver results and guarantee the win-win-win equation for the three countries," he said.
 NAFTA: What it is, and why Trump hates it
Trump has repeatedly said his economic plan is "Buy America, Hire American." He's blamed Mexico and China for stealing U.S. jobs.
The United States ran a nearly $50 billion trade deficit with Mexico in 2015, meaning it bought more goods and services than it sold to its southern neighbor. But the U.S. had a $12 billion surplus with Canada in 2015.
In the memo to Congress, Vaughn also says the White House wants to be able to prioritize U.S. companies over Mexican and Canadian ones for any American government contracts.
On the campaign trail, Trump made it sound like he wanted to rip up NAFTA altogether. This latest memo from Vaughn is much softer in tone and doesn't call for sweeping changes.
"Improving NAFTA has the greatest potential to benefit the workers, farmers and firms of the United States," the memo says. It notes that Canada and Mexico are "among the largest export markets for [U.S.] manufacturing."
The European Union is the No. 1 destination overall for American exports. Canada is No. 2 and Mexico is No. 3, according to U.S. Census data.
 Why Mexico isn't a big winner of NAFTA
The main changes to NAFTA outlined in the memo are to allow the U.S. to put penalties like tariffs on in certain situations and to establish clearer rules for intellectual property and labor rights.
Vaughn calls NAFTA "clearly outdated" and in need of an upgrade.
-- CNNMoney's Patrick Gillespie and Leyla Santiago contributed to this article.
Zambrano said his company has not participated in the first round of bids that is currently underway.
But asked whether Cemex would provide building materials to companies constructing the wall, Zambrano said he had already been clear about that particular issue.
 Bids are rolling in for Mexican border wall
On March 2, the company said it would provide materials to firms that it had contracts with, even if they were building the wall.
"If one of our clients requests a quote for materials, we have the responsibility to do so," the company said in a statement at the time. "But this does not imply that Cemex will participate in the project."
It's unclear if any company has solicited Cemex's materials for the wall.
President Trump recently requested a relatively small sum of $1 billion as the first installment to build his proposed border wall, which has total cost estimates between $12 billion and $24 billion.
 Why Mexico isn't a big winner of NAFTA
Cemex's decision not to participate directly in constructing the border wall is a reminder of a point made by Mexico's foreign minister, Luis Videgaray, earlier in March.
He told companies to "examine their conscience" before deciding whether to participate in building the wall, arguing that nationality takes precedent over profits.
However, U.S. firms aren't thinking twice. Many are already submitting proposals to the Trump administration to bid for construction contracts.
--Marilia Brocchetto contributed reporting to this article.
Trump's threats -- to build a wall, tax Mexican imports and remittances, and withdraw from the free trade agreement NAFTA -- caused the peso to lose value throughout the election.
Mexico's central bank governor, Agustin Carstens, said before the election he and other Mexican leaders had a "contingency plan" in place if Trump won, expecting the peso to plunge.
 Mexico ready to 'step away from NAFTA' if new deal isn't good
He's kept his word, taking several measures to shore up the currency, including hiking interest rates and selling dollars to international investors. The peso ticked up after Thursday's rate hike.
It appears to be working. Since Trump's inauguration the peso has rallied, up 16% over that time. Its value is almost back to where it was the night before the November 8 election when it plunged in value.
Still, the value of the peso is very low, historically. One dollar equals 18.65 pesos, though it was nearly worth 22 pesos at the peso's weakest point in January. In 2013, you could get less than 12 pesos for a dollar.
Mexico's central bank also raised rates to keep up with the U.S. Federal Reserve, which raised its key interest rate in March, also by a quarter point. Carstens wants Mexico's monetary policy in line with America's because the two countries' economies are so closely linked.
 I sent money home to support family in Mexico
And some of Trump's advisers have toned down the rhetoric on trade, convincing investors that the worst of Trump's threats may never come to fruition.
That expectation bore true Thursday as leaked documents of a draft from the office of Trump's U.S. Trade Representative showed that the administration was looking to make tweaks rather than drastically change NAFTA as Trump suggested during his campaign.
Carstens's leadership through the early stages of the Trump administration is so important for Mexico that President Enrique Peña Nieto asked him to stay on until the fall after Carstens initially said he would resign in June for a central banking position in Switzerland.
Poverty in Mexico has increased since NAFTA became law in 1994, and the country's economy performed worse than many of its peers in Latin America, according to a new study published by the Center for Economic and Policy Research, a left-leaning think tank.
"Many people think that since American workers lost out from NAFTA, Mexicans must have benefited," says Mark Weisbrot, co-director of the think tank. "But the data show that this is not true."
 Mexico ready to 'step away from NAFTA' if new deal isn't good
NAFTA's fate is coming to a head as the Trump administration prepares to formally kick off a 90-day countdown to start talks with Mexico and Canada.
Several studies show that Mexico both won and lost from NAFTA, depending on the sector of its economy. That's akin to the U.S. experience -- broadly speaking, some U.S. manufacturers suffered while many American farmers gained.
The latest analysis cites Mexican government figures and finds that about 55% of Mexicans today cannot afford basic expenses, such as food, housing, health care, education transportation and clothing. That's up from 52% in 1994, which may sound like a small increase, but it amounts to an additional 20 million Mexicans living under these conditions.
 I sent money home to support my family in Mexico
Mexico also ranks 15th out of 20 in Latin America in GDP per capita -- a measure of the population's purchasing power. Between 1994 and 2016, growth in Mexico's GDP per capita averaged 1.2%, significantly lower than other nations such as Colombia, Peru and Chile, according to CEPR.
A double whammy for Mexico was the entry of China into the World Trade Organization in 2001. China quickly became Mexico's biggest competitor over trade with the United States.
China's share of trade with the U.S. increased sharply after it joined the WTO, which hurt Mexico's prospects and share of the U.S. market.
NAFTA has also hurt rural Mexico. According to the think tank's research, Mexico lost about 2 million farming jobs between 1991 and 2007 (it didn't provide more recent data).
Large-scale U.S. farmers, especially corn farmers, outperformed production from their Mexican counterparts, many of whom owned small and medium-size farms that lacked advanced technology.
Today, Mexico is one of the world's top buyers of U.S. corn and soy.
 My American job is moving to Mexico
In general, Mexico did win when it comes to the manufacturing sector. Over 80% of Mexico's exports go to the U.S. tax-free today. American companies of all stripes, from John Deere (DE) to Krispy Kreme, have created jobs in Mexico since NAFTA began.
And other data does show that poverty in Mexico has actually declined in some respects. According to World Bank data, in 1994 there were 9.2 million Mexicans living in poverty, defined as living on $1.90 a day -- a yardstick which has been adjusted for inflation over the years. Today, that figure stands at 3.8 million.
Two of the company's biggest fans have been busy buying shares in the past week -- and that has boosted investors' hopes that the company won't go under after all.
CEO Eddie Lampert has scooped up some stock to prop it up. So has the influential investment firm Fairholme Capital, which is run by Bruce Berkowitz -- a Sears board member.
Lampert, through his personal stake and the holdings owned by his investment firm ESL, and Fairholme collectively own more than 75% of Sears.
So any moves by Lampert and Fairholme to prop up Sears go a long way toward easing some of the insolvency and bankruptcy worries.
 Sears changed America
This is not to suggest that Sears is all of a sudden a healthy company again. Nobody's going to mistake Sears for Amazon, Walmart or Home Depot.
But Lampert does have a plan. It's not a plan that will allow Sears to return to its former glory. But it could keep the company afloat.
Earlier this year, Sears announced plans to close 150 Sears and Kmart stores. That will save Sears nearly $1 billion in operating costs and may help it trim its massive debt load.
Sears also sold its Craftsman brand of tools to Stanley Black & Decker (SWJ) to raise cash. And it is looking to sell its Kenmore appliances and its Diehard auto parts businesses too.
The company has also spun off pieces of its Sears Hometown and Outlet Stores (SHOS) division, Lands' End (LE) and Sears Canada (SRSC).
Sears also set up a separate public company for some of its real estate assets -- Seritage Growth Properties (SRG).
And one of the owners of that is none other than investing guru Warren Buffett. The Oracle of Omaha has personally invested in that company. It's not a holding of Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway (BRKB) though.
Make no mistake. Investors should probably stay far away from Sears stock unless they are a billionaire like Buffett who has the financial wherewithal to stomach a big loss.
Related; Sears raises doubt about its future
And the line in a recent Sears regulatory filing about there being "substantial doubt" regarding its "ability to continue as a going concern" is undoubtedly alarming. But you need to read the next sentence in that filing too.
Sears added that all the moves it has in the works to raise cash are "probable of occurring" and that they should mitigate "the substantial doubt raised by our historical operating results" and also satisfy our "estimated liquidity needs."
In other words, fears of the imminent demise of Sears -- which have now been circulating for several years -- may be overblown.
So opportunistic shoppers looking for a going out of business sale may not get the chance. Sears and Kmart may not close their doors for good after all.
The airline says it will provide one free hour of Wi-Fi, with a $5 charge to stay connected the whole flight.
 U.S. and U.K. ban laptops from Middle East flight carry-on
"We truly appreciate the importance of being able to work on board our aircraft," says Qatar Airways CEO Akbar Al Baker.

 What you need to know about airline electronics ban
In addition to Qatar Airways, the ban applies to certain flights operated by Emirates, Turkish Airlines, EgyptAir, Etihad Airways, Kuwait Airways, Royal Air Maroc, Royal Jordanian Airlines and Saudia Airlines.
"The negotiations must first clarify how we will disentangle our interlinked relationship," said Merkel on Wednesday. "And only when this question is dealt with, can we, hopefully soon after, begin talking about our future relationship."
That position was reinforced Friday when the EU released its preliminary approach to the Brexit negotiations. Preparatory discussions on a trade deal could only take place once "sufficient progress" on the divorce had been made, it said. And a deal will only be concluded when the U.K. has left the EU.
That means firms in Britain -- which currently benefit from free trade in the EU -- may not know what kind of access they'll have to Europe's vast markets for at least three years. Paul Hollingsworth at Capital Economics estimates the new relationship may not be settled until 2021.
Uncertainty is a business killer, and many companies can't wait that long. They're already moving to relocate some operations and jobs out of the U.K. to protect their revenues.
Financial exodus begins
Citigroup (C) is already figuring out how to keep its EU "passport" that allows it to offer financial services in Europe.
"For planning purposes, we must assume a 'hard' Brexit in which the U.K. loses its ability to passport into the EU," wrote Citigroup's European CEO James Cowles in a memo to staff.
"A hard Brexit would require certain changes, including relocating certain client-facing roles to the EU from the U.K., and the possible creation of a new broker-dealer entity within the EU."

JP Morgan (JPM) said it is considering moving some staff into the EU: Dublin and Frankfurt are reportedly on its radar.
HSBC (HSBC) and UBS (UBS) have warned they could each move 1,000 employees to continue serving the EU market.
Insurance market Lloyd's of London isn't taking any chances, either. It confirmed Thursday that it will establish a subsidiary in Brussels, the heart of EU decision making, to ensure uninterrupted service for its European clients.
Similarly, AIG (AIG) -- which has a large U.K. presence -- said earlier this month it would set up shop in Luxembourg.
Driving out?
Auto executives are also facing key decisions on investment and production in the U.K. They may feel compelled to make new models in the EU, rather than risk facing tariffs on exports (and imported parts) after Brexit.
BMW (BAMXF) is a case in point: The German automaker is considering whether to produce the new electric version of its iconic Mini car in mainland Europe rather than at its main U.K. facility in Oxford.
"Much will depend on how Brexit is ultimately negotiated... We are preparing for different scenarios," said BMW CEO Harald Kruger in a recent statement.
Cars made in Britain get nearly 60% of their parts from outside the U.K. -- mostly from the EU -- and 56% of those cars are sold back into the EU. Tariffs would seriously hurt the profitability of automakers' U.K. businesses.
"Automakers are getting very nervous," said Justin Cox of market intelligence firm LMC Automotive. "When you put these obstacles in the way of any business, or just the uncertainty ... you see investment diverted elsewhere."
Ford's (F) European CEO Jim Farley warned Wednesday that "securing tariff-free trade" with the EU was crucial.
"No [trade] deal would be the very worst case for the U.K. auto industry and would put at risk the competitiveness of the industry," he said.
Taking flight
Aviation presents its own thorny challenges. Flights to and from the U.K. are covered by an Open Skies agreement with the EU. If no replacement deal is reached on time, flights could be grounded.
And the timetable is extremely tight. Airlines need an agreement by the middle of 2018 so they can plan their schedules for 2019.
Low-cost carrier Ryanair (RYAAY) has pivoted its business to focus on other EU markets since the Brexit vote last June.
"Britain's airlines, airports and holidaymakers need a real and early solution for aviation, or risk Britain being cut off from Europe in March 2019," warned the Dublin-based airline's top marketing officer, Kenny Jacobs.
Customers could see "deep cuts to our flights both to, from and within the U.K. from March 2019," he said.
Britain's EasyJet (ESYJY) said Wednesday it's applying for an EU license to secure its flying rights within the bloc. It's also preparing to tweak its ownership structure to meet rules governing carriers that offer flights from one EU country to another.
-- CNN's Chris Liakos contributed to this report.
And Trump has also declared an end to Obama's "war on coal."
Still, the S&P Energy Sector ETF (XLE) is down more than 6% in 2017, while the S&P 500 is up 5%.
That's despite the fact that earnings for oil companies are expected to be solid in the first quarter. Analysts are predicting that sales at Exxon (XOM), for example, will be up 40% from a year ago and that profits will nearly double.
Why? Even though crude prices are down year-to-date, a barrel of oil is around $50 -- and that's nearly double the price from a year ago.
Oil hit a 13-year low of just above $26 a barrel in February 2016. So it's a lot more profitable to pump now than this time last year.
Despite this, Exxon shares are down 9% in 2017, making it the worst performer in the Dow. Rival Chevron, also a Dow component, is down more than 8%.
These price drops are attracting some bargain hunters.
Rob Bartenstein, CEO of Kestra Private Wealth Services, said Exxon is too attractive to ignore.
"If you are a conservative long-term investor, the opportunity to pick up a blue chip stock with 34 years of dividend increases and $9 billion in free cash flow at these levels is hard to pass up," Bartenstein said.
He added that he doesn't think oil prices will fall much further from here either. For one, production cuts by OPEC during the past year have put a floor on oil prices. He also thinks demand for oil will increase as the U.S. economy improves.
 This Texas oilfield is messing with OPEC
Jim Brilliant, manager of the CM Advisors Fixed Income Fund, agrees. He said that the combination of higher demand and concerns about supplies in the wake of lower production from OPEC could drive oil prices back to about $75 to $80 a barrel.
That would be great news for oil and gas companies, and it's a key reason why Brilliant said that his fund likes corporate bonds of oil, coal and other energy firms. Bonds for Wyoming coal company Cloud Peak Energy (CLD) is one of his fund's top holdings.
Money manager Louis Navellier of Navellier & Associates also thinks the time is right to make more bets in the oil patch. He said he's been scooping up shares of oil and gas exploration companies Devon (DVN) and Pioneer Natural Resources (PXD).
Navellier said it's a "lock and load" year for these and other energy companies because of expectations for much better earnings. Devon and Pioneer both lost money last year and are expected to return to profitability in 2017 thanks to higher crude prices.
Finally, it's worth noting that several oil companies are also in the process of selling some assets to shore up their balance sheets and boost profits.
ConocoPhillips agreed Wednesday to sell a big chunk of its oil sands assets in western Canada to Canadian energy company Cenovus for about $13 billion. Shares of ConocoPhillips (COP) surged 7% on the news while Cenovus (CVE) plunged more than 10%.
This is the third deal involving big oil companies selling Canadian assets in just the past few weeks. Both Royal Dutch Shell (RDSA) and Marathon Oil (MRO) announced sales of some of their oil sands assets to Canadian Natural Resources (CNQ) earlier this month.
If this keeps up, oil stocks may not stay in the doldrums for that much longer.
"You will probably see a further decline in women being hired," Subramanyam Sreenivasaiah, CEO at human resources consulting firm Ascent HR, told CNN.
Here's the problem. The government has mandated 26 weeks of paid maternity leave, but it doesn't provide any financial support for employers.
That means companies must bear all the associated costs -- including training and hiring a temporary replacement. The law also says companies with more than 50 employees must set up daycare services for working mothers.
"The industry cannot afford to do this at all," Sreenivasaiah added.
 Ikea gives India employees six months paid parental leave
Big Indian companies and multinationals should be able to cope with the change. Indeed, Swedish furniture firm Ikea moved quickly to introduce new policies that went one better and also gave new fathers six months off.
"This is a beneficial legislation which is good for female employees and the corporate sector," said R.S. Maker, director general of the Employers' Federation of India. "The industry has accepted that maternity benefits are here to stay," he said.
But smaller companies could struggle. Jubin Shaju, a human resources executive at digital payments firm Chillr, says hiring practices in India already tend to discriminate against women.
"This makes things even worse," he said.

Women aspiring to work in India's booming startup sector could be hit particularly hard.
There's no official data so far, but a survey of over 4,300 startups by social network LocalCircles found that 26% would rather hire male employees. Another 40% said they would hire women, but only if they're worth "the cost."
Around 35% of respondents said the new maternity leave requirements would negatively impact their profitability.
"Startups usually have action-based roles," said Upasana Taku, co-founder of Mobikwik, another digital payments company. "The possibility of somebody not being able to contribute for six months at a stretch will be a huge deal breaker," she added.
India's labor ministry did not respond to multiple requests for comment.
 Indias startup bubble has already burst
Others point out that the law -- while a step in the right direction -- doesn't cover nearly 150 million women who work in temporary, casual jobs or are self-employed.
"India is not yet there in terms of overall infrastructure, education, healthcare," said Sairee Chahal. Chahal is the founder and CEO of SHEROES, an online platform that helps Indian women find jobs.
"It is good to have the government thinking about it, but it is also a step in isolation," she added.
Sudha Ishara is one of many women who won't benefit from the new rules. She runs a tutoring center at home, where she teaches nearly two dozen students while taking care of her child.
Ishara quit the school she previously taught at when her son was born six months ago, because she couldn't afford the unpaid maternity leave it offered her.

"I feel tied down, but the baby needs his mother," she said.
Now that he's a little older, however, the 32-year-old mother of two is looking for a nanny -- and a new job.
Shares in Swedish retailer H&M (HNNMY) are also slumping by about 4% in Europe as investors express their disappointment with the company's latest earnings. The firm also announced it's launching a new brand called Arket later this year.
2. Stock market overview: It's a ho-hum day for global stock markets. U.S. stock futures are holding around their closing levels from Wednesday afternoon.
European markets are standing on relatively steady ground in early trading. Most Asian markets ended the day with losses, though the drops weren't too dramatic.
This follows a mixed trading session in the U.S. on Wednesday. The Dow Jones industrial average dipped 0.2% while the S&P 500 and Nasdaq made small gains.
Before the Bell newsletter: Key market news. In your inbox. Subscribe now!
3. Economics: The U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis is releasing its updated GDP report for the fourth quarter at 8:30 a.m. ET. Economists expect GDP grew by 2.0% in the quarter, up from an earlier estimate of 1.9%.
Mexico's economy is also in focus. The central bank meets to consider raising interest rates one more time.
It has already raised interest rates three times as part of a "contingency plan" to stabilize the crashing peso following President Trump's election. Further action could come when the meeting wraps up at 3 p.m. ET.
Download CNN MoneyStream for up-to-the-minute market data and news
4. Coming this week:
Thursday - Release of updated U.S. GDP for fourth quarter Friday - Blackberry (BBRY, Tech30) earnings; Final day of the first quarter of 2017
To stave off the problem, Lululemon will launch more colorful clothes on its website as soon as next week, Potdevin said.
The company's problems aren't all internal, though. Lululemon faces intense competition from companies like Nike (NKE), which is more than 10 times its size.
 Lululemon founder says company has 'lost its way'
The athleisure brand had a solid 2016, with same-store sales rising 4%. But the company warned that sales would sink in the current quarter, which would give its competitors room to grow.
Lululemon has been hurt by problems with its merchandise before. In 2013, a recall of black pants that were too sheer -- in other words, see-through -- hit sales and profits. Former CEO Christine Day stepped down after the debacle. And in 2015, Lululemon recalled some women's tops because hard-tipped drawstrings were injuring wearers.
"We ask that you conduct an investigation into each of these decisions to determine whether they are legally permissible," the senators wrote.
 Exxon to Trump: Don't ditch Paris climate deal
The SEC is responsible for protecting investors by rooting out financial crime and ensuring capital markets are fair for all. The fear is that these actions would weaken the agency.
Shortly after being named acting chairman, Piwowar ordered a review that removed the ability of more than a dozen of the agency's enforcement officials nationwide to launch investigations and issue subpoenas, two people familiar with the matter told CNNMoney.
Those powers are now limited to only the SEC's enforcement division director, the sources said. They said the change was aimed at ensuring that enforcement powers are being used consistently across the country.
But the move has the effect of weakening the investigative powers of the enforcement's staff and rolling back authority that had been granted in 2009 under former chairman Mary Schapiro in the wake of the financial crisis.
Before 2009, only the SEC's commissioners had the ability to issue subpoenas and open investigations.
 Trump's Wall Street cop promises 'no favoritism'
The changes mean that Jay Clayton, a Wall Street lawyer that Trump nominated to run the SEC, would inherit a weakened agency if he gets confirmed by the U.S. Senate.
Asked about the removal of subpoena power during last week's confirmation hearing, Clayton said he was not consulted about the shift and is unsure if he agrees with it.
"I will have to discuss this with both commissioners," Clayton said, referring to Piwowar and SEC Commissioner Kara Stein.
Senator Menendez asked Clayton if in his experience as a lawyer defending banks and other companies he found that the SEC's enforcement staff "abused" its subpoena authority.
"In my experience, I have not seen an abuse of subpoena authority," Clayton said.
Piwowar has taken other actions during his short term. In late January, he asked his staff to reconsider a regulation that requires companies to report the use of minerals from war-torn regions in their supply chains.
And in February, he asked his staff to seek fresh input on a regulation that requires public companies to disclose how much their senior executives make compared to an average employee of the firm.
It certainly won't look good if the government shuts down on Republicans' watch, since they control both Congress and the White House, especially given questions about their ability to govern in the wake of the party's recent failure to accomplish its No. 1 goal: Obamacare repeal.
"Republicans do not want a shutdown. Oh my God, they don't want that," said Steve Bell, a former senior staffer on the Senate Budget Committee.
Indeed, Senator John Cornyn, the assistant Republican leader in the Senate, said point-blank to reporters this week, "There's not going to be a shutdown."
But nothing is easy with the Trump administration or with budget debates in a highly divisive Congress.
Here are several issues that could stymie efforts to avert a shutdown by April 28:
Wall funding: If Republicans try to authorize funding for Trump's controversial border wall, that will be a no-go for Democrats.
"That will not stand," Senate Minority Leader Charles Schumer has noted.
As of this week, anyway, there are hints that top Republicans won't push to include money for the wall in the government funding bill, but may choose to under a separate vehicle.
Defense spending hike with domestic program cuts: President Trump is requesting a $30 billion increase for defense and homeland security. To offset that, he's proposing $18 billion in cuts to non-defense programs, which make up the smallest part of the federal budget.
 How Trump's budget cuts could hurt low-income Americans
That's also not going to work for Democrats, who want parity in spending levels for both defense and nondefense.
On the other hand, not increasing defense spending could become a major sticking point for defense hawks.
Planned Parenthood: Republicans were planning to strip funding for the health care services organization in their Obamacare repeal bill. Since that bill is dead for now, conservatives may push for a defunding measure in the CR. If they do, bye-bye Democratic votes.
"Speaker Ryan signaled it will not be in the House bill, though that will cost many GOP defections on the bill. That means the Democrats have even more leverage," Chris Krueger, a senior policy analyst at the Cowen Washington Research Group, said in a morning note.
Gorsuch confirmation: Bad blood might also poison the political well. If Senate Democrats filibuster the confirmation of Supreme Court nominee Neil Gorsuch, Republicans may break with tradition to enact rules that let them bypass the Democrats to confirm Gorsuch on a simple majority vote.
"That should be taken as a leading indicator for a 4/28 shutdown," Krueger said.
So what happens in a shutdown?
Threats of a shutdown are far more common than actual shutdowns. The last one occurred in October 2013, and the one prior to that was in late 1995. But in all instances, shutdowns are a waste of federal energy, time and resources.
Those that last a while also can take a toll on the economy and businesses' bottom line.
"Federal contractors don't get paid, they lay people off," said budget policy expert Stan Collender.
If it looks like a shutdown will occur, the White House budget office will work with federal agencies to determine which federal functions and employees are essential or "excepted." Those that typically make the grade pertain to health, safety and defense, but the White House has latitude in how broadly it defines "excepted."
Agencies and services considered non-essential -- such as federal museums and national parks -- will be shuttered until the shutdown is over. Hundreds of thousands of federal workers are likely to be furloughed without pay. Congress may decide after the shutdown to pay them for the time off anyway. But the financial disruption for them can be a problem if, like many Americans, they live paycheck to paycheck.
-- CNN's Ashley Killough and Ted Barrett contributed to this report
Unemployment peaked at 10% after the Great Recession. Today it's just 4.7%, a level Williams said constitutes "full employment" because there will always be some job seekers, even in a healthy economy. Inflation is also "nearing" the Fed's goal of 2%, he said.
The Fed raised interest rates this month for only the third time since the financial crisis. The central bank is expected to raise rates two more times this year, but Williams hinted again that three more hikes might be appropriate in 2017.
He said Wednesday that the Fed is as close "as we've ever been" to achieving its goals of full employment and stable inflation.
 Fed raises rates, signals more to come in 2017
Williams argued that it's time for the Fed -- and Washington -- to shift from obsessing about "How do we achieve a sustained recovery?" and focus on "How do we sustain the recovery we've achieved?"
But Williams does think the U.S. economy needs faster growth. The economy has struggled to expand much faster than 2% a year in this recovery. Last year, the economy only expanded 1.6%.
President Trump has said he can deliver 4% growth. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin has indicated that at least 3% is achievable.
Williams and other Fed officials have said there's not much more the central bank can do to boost growth. It's up to Congress, Trump, and businesses, to "unshackle the economy" by finding ways to get more people into the workforce and increase productivity.
The Exxon letter was sent to the White House on March 22, just days before Trump took a massive swipe at environmental regulations implemented under Obama. The administration had asked Exxon for its views on the Paris accord.
Trump signed an executive order on Tuesday to undo the Clean Power Plan, which aimed to slash carbon emissions by coal plans and other power utilities.
Before taking office, Trump called climate change a "hoax" and blasted the Paris COP21 agreement as a "bad deal" for the U.S.
However, after winning the election Trump told The New York Times he has an "open mind" about the Paris agreement and said he believes clean air and "crystal clear water" are important.
 Trump move won't bring back coal or mining jobs
Exxon has a complex and controversial history with climate change. The energy giant is being investigated for allegedly misleading the public and shareholders about what it knew about the dangers of climate change.
But in 2007 Exxon admitted publicly that climate change poses risks and said it's responsible to begin working on ways to reduce emissions.
Exxon has also been a consistent public supporter of the Paris agreement.
"We welcomed the Paris Agreement when it was announced in December 2015, and again when it came into force in November 2016. We have reiterated our support on several occasions," Peter Trelenberg, Exxon's environmental policy and planning manager, wrote to the White House.
Last month Exxon CEO Darren Woods, who replaced Rex Tillerson when he left to become Trump's secretary of state, wrote a blog post saying the company is "encouraged" that the Paris agreement creates a framework for "all countries" to address rising emissions.
Exxon noted in its letter to the White House that unlike the Kyoto Agreement, the Paris deal is the first major international accord to feature pledges from developed nations like the U.S. and developing ones like China. Exxon pointed out that China is the world's leading greenhouse gas emitted and India is likely to pass the U.S. as No. 2 before mid-century.
 What if Trump dumps Paris climate deal?
Even though Trump is a climate change skeptic, his secretary of state and leading emissary on climate issues, does not appear to be one.
During his confirmation hearing in January, Tillerson said he came to the conclusion years ago that "the risk of climate change does exist and the consequences could be serious enough that action should be taken."
But Tillerson ducked allegations that Exxon misled the public on climate change. He refused to answer repeated questions during the hearing about whether the company ignored internal research going back to the 1970s on the impact of burning fossil fuels.
Earlier this month it emerged that Tillerson allegedly used the pseudonym "Wayne Tracker" to send emails related to climate change while serving as CEO of Exxon.
-- CNNMoney's Julia Horowitz contributed to this report.
Wells Fargo said on Tuesday the payments to customers will be in addition to refunds the bank has already paid out.
The settlement is expected to cover several lawsuits: including one filed in May 2015 in the Northern District of California, a separate one launched last September by customers, as well as 10 others.
Wells Fargo's $110 million settlement marks a reversal from just a few months ago when it tried to kill a fake account lawsuit by forcing victims to resolve their claims quietly in closed-door arbitration instead of open court.
But Wells Fargo (WFC) apparently decided not to enforce those controversial forced arbitration clauses and reach a settlement instead. The bank cited a desire to "move forward and avoid continued litigation."
 Wells Fargo fails test over 'discriminatory' practices
Wells Fargo said the $110 million settlement will cover "all persons" who claim that without consent the bank opened an account in their name, submitted an application or enrolled them in a product or service. The period covered begins on January 1, 2009 and ends whenever the settlement is executed.
Customers who believe they were impacted by Wells Fargo's fake accounts don't need to take action yet because a court still needs to sign off on the agreement that was reached in principle.
Wells Fargo said once preliminary approval is received, a notice will be sent out explaining the process for customers to make claims.
It's not clear yet how much each customer will receive because it's too early to say how many of them will be included in the settlement.
After attorneys' fees, Wells Fargo said the $110 million will be used first to compensate customers for out-of-pocket losses. That includes fees incurred due to unauthorized account openings.
Wells Fargo said whatever is left in the pool after that will be split among customers in the class, "based on the number and kinds of unauthorized accounts or services claimed."
These payouts are on top of the $3.2 million Wells Fargo has paid to customers over 130,000 accounts over potentially unauthorized accounts. That works out to a refund of roughly $25 per account.
A Wells Fargo spokesman told CNNMoney that "in most cases" customers who received a remediation check are eligible to take part in the settlement.
 Fed official likens Wells Fargo fraud to mortgage crisis
"It really pissed me off," Brian Kennedy, a retiree from Maryland who discovered a Wells Fargo checking account he never asked for, told CNNMoney in September.
"They expect people to not be paying attention and hope you don't notice," Kennedy said.
Wells Fargo CEO Tim Sloan said in a statement that the settlement is "another step in our journey to make things right with customers."
Despite the settlement, Wells Fargo doesn't sound like it's moving away from its practice of enforcing the fine print agreements that require customers to enter arbitration when issues arise. Forced arbitration has been criticized because it allows companies to hide misbehavior in private mediation rather than opening it up to public scrutiny in court.
"Wells Fargo continues to believe that arbitration is an efficient and effective way to resolve disputes," a Wells Fargo spokesperson said.
KBW analyst Brian Kleinhanzl wrote in a report that the settlement is a positive for shareholders because it removes "another overhand" related to the scandal.
But he noted that Wells Fargo's sales results "remain subdued" since the settlement. Wells Fargo recently revealed its credit card applications plunged by 55% in February, the worst performance since the scandal.
CNNMoney's Chris Isidore contributed to this report.
The dot-com bubble's bursting was one factor that led to a recession that started in March 2001 and lasted through November of that year. (That period, of course, included the immediate aftermath of the 9/11 terrorist attacks.)
And another closely watched measure of consumer confidence, The University of Michigan's Consumer Sentiment Index, hit its highest level since 2000 earlier this month as well.
 U.S. economy added 235,000 jobs in Trump's first full month in office
It's also worth pointing out that the Conference Board's consumer confidence index surged right after last November's election as well -- to the highest level since July 2007. The Great Recession began in December of that year and lasted until June 2009.
All of this is not to say that the economy is about to enter another downturn just because the notoriously late to the party consumer is suddenly feeling giddy.
It's understandable why there is suddenly more hope on Main Street these days.
While the Conference Board didn't mention President Trump by name, it would appear that average Americans -- much like small business owners and CEOs -- are excited about the possibility of tax reform and stimulus.
"Consumers' assessment of current business and labor market conditions improved considerably. Consumers also expressed much greater optimism regarding the short-term outlook for business, jobs and personal income prospects," said Lynn Franco, director of economic indicators at The Conference Board, in a release.
 Trump wants 4% GDP growth. 3% will do just fine
"Consumers feel current economic conditions have improved over the recent period, and their renewed optimism suggests the possibility of some upside to the prospects for economic growth in the coming months," Franco added.
Some economists argue that the U.S. is due for a recession soon because we haven't had one in nearly eight years. This has been a relatively long, albeit shallow, recovery.
Interestingly, and perhaps not surprisingly, the economy is also increasingly being viewed through partisan lenses.
The University of Michigan addresses politics more directly in its consumer confidence reports.
And it noted earlier this month that based on its gauge of economic expectations, Democrats "signaled that a deep recession was imminent" while Republicans felt that "a new era of robust economic growth was ahead."
What's more, the most recent political infighting over health care appears to have dented confidence in the economy among Republicans and Democrats.
Polling company Gallup said earlier this week that its latest U.S. Economic Confidence Index hit its lowest level since the election -- largely due to the stock market's recent slide and the failure to repeal and replace Obamacare.
 Housing market could get a bump from Trump
Gallup noted that Republicans still have a healthier view of the economy than Democrats, but added that "rank-and-file Republicans became significantly less confident in the economy last week."
If that trend continues, it will be interesting to see whether or not Republicans and Democrats alike decide to actually pull back on plans to buy more things over the next few months. At the end of the day, confidence doesn't power the economy. Shopping does.
If Trump is able to rebound from the collapse of his plan to repeal and replace the ACA and still get financial reform, a reduction in corporate and individual taxes and some level of infrastructure spending though Congress, that could boost the economy.
It may be difficult for the economy to grow at the 4% annualized rate that Trump has promised. But several experts think that 3% -- which would be an improvement from the sub-2% levels the U.S. has experienced lately -- is doable.
That would feel great for consumers and investors. And their confidence would likely be reflected through more spending.
--CNNMoney's Matt Egan contributed to this story.
The protections would have required internet service providers, such as Comcast (CCV) or CenturyLink, to ask for permission before tracking and selling users' information. The resolution now goes to President Trump's desk, and the White House said Tuesday it "strongly supports" the repeal.
The information in question includes everything from where you are to what you're looking at online. A provider could infer that you're sick, for example, because you looked at WebMD.
The FCC approved the rules in October, and they had yet to go into effect. If the House also votes to eliminate them, any provider will be able to track and sell your data without telling you.
The steps in Congress would remove an extra safeguard at a time when people are using more and more internet-connected devices and providers are investing more in targeted advertising.
You probably already know that companies like Facebook (FB, Tech30) and Google (GOOG) use your data to target their ads. There are a number of tools, including Privacy Badger and Disconnect, that prevent advertisers from tracking your activity. But they will not block your service provider from collecting your data.
Further, browsing in "incognito" or private mode does not prevent your internet provider from knowing which sites you visit. Private mode only prevents the browser you are using from storing your internet history. (Comcast will still know when you view adult content, even if Chrome forgets.)
 Senate votes to undo Internet privacy rules
The technology to get around the providers is complicated.
"There are pretty easy and free ways to stop tracking online from advertisers," says Jeremy Gillula, senior staff technologist at the Electronic Frontier Foundation. "The technical ways to stop your ISP from tracking you are limited and cumbersome."
So what can you do? Using a tool called a virtual private network, or VPN, will protect your online activity from anyone who might want to look at it, including internet providers.
But do your research before you pick a VPN. Sometimes they claim to cloak your traffic but their privacy policies allow them to track and sell your information to advertisers. That's how many free VPNs make money. (Privacy is easier for those who can afford it.)
Read the fine print: Does the company promise not to log your activity? Does it include information about selling your activity to advertisers?
Kenneth White, an internet security engineer and director of the Open Crypto Audit Project, says to avoid tools that use terms like "NSA-proof," "hacker-proof," "military-grade encryption" and "total anonymity" in their marketing.
If you know how to use more technical tools, he suggests a VPN called Algo. If your technical skills are more limited, he recommends Cloak.
"There is a long history of 'free' VPNs that prey on innocent consumers' concerns about security and cynically make them less safe," White says. In 2015, a VPN called Hola was found to be turning customers' computers into a botnet, or a group of hijacked devices that can be used for hacking.
 Your data is not safe. Here's how to lock it down
Another option Gillula suggests is privacy software called Tor. It makes your online activity anonymous, meaning it can be collected, but not associated with you.
Nothing is unhackable, but the code for Tor is open and transparent, meaning that many people have analyzed it, and you can be sure it does what it promises to.
Editor's Note: This article has been updated from its original published on March 24.
Here is why:
Weaker growth
The Office for Budget Responsibility, the U.K.'s independent fiscal watchdog, is forecasting growth of 2% in 2017. Prior to the Brexit vote last year, it expected growth of 2.2%.
The downgrade is even bigger for next year. The OBR expects growth of 1.6% in 2018, compared with its pre-Brexit forecast of 2.1%.
 5 big obstacles to amicable divorce?
Higher debt
That slower growth will hit the government's revenues as business and workers pay less tax. That means it will have to borrow more.
The OBR expects government debt to reach £1.9 trillion by 2021, up from £1.74 trillion it forecast in March 2016.
That's £160 billion ($199 billion) of extra government borrowing, which will likely translate into cuts in spending or higher taxes.
"The U.K. will need to tighten fiscal policy over time to cover the gap," said Holger Schmieding, chief economist at Berenberg bank.
 Brexit promises: How many will be broken?

Slower job creation
The uncertainty surrounding Brexit is likely to hit jobs too. Private sector hiring confidence fell to its weakest level in three years, according to a survey by the ManpowerGroup published this month. The group asks managers about their hiring plans for the upcoming quarter.
Some companies will need to shift jobs abroad to safeguard their European operations. Major banks have already started this process, announcing the relocation of thousands of jobs.
The OBR expects the number of people claiming unemployment benefit to reach 830,000 this year, 50,000 more than it forecast in March 2016. That number will rise to 880,000 by 2020, roughly 10,000 more than it forecast before the Brexit vote.
It expects unemployment to rise gradually from 2018 and peak at 5.2% in 2020.
 Just 29% of Brits think Brexit will be good for the economy
Divorce bill
EU countries pay into a shared multi-year budget to finance things like infrastructure projects, social programs, scientific research and pensions for EU bureaucrats. The budget runs until 2020 and EU officials have said they expect the U.K. to honor its commitments even as it leaves the bloc in 2019.
EU Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker said the U.K. will be expected to pay roughly £50 billion ($62.4 billion) to settle its bill.
Top EU negotiator, Michel Barnier, has warned that Britain faces severe disruption to air traffic, nuclear fuel shortages and delays in moving goods across the channel if an agreement on Brexit cannot be reached.
Here are the five key issues that could kill any chance of an amicable divorce:
1. The divorce bill
The EU expects the U.K. to honor existing joint spending commitments even as it walks out the exit door in 2019.
EU members pay for infrastructure projects, social programs, scientific research and wages and pensions for EU bureaucrats. The current budget runs until 2020. EU Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker said recently that Britain will need to pay roughly £50 billion ($63 billion) as it leaves.
The U.K. has said it will honor its commitments but there's likely to be fierce wrangling over the size of the bill. The battle over money is expected to be one of the thorniest issues that negotiators will address, and may hold up discussion on other items.
 What Brexit will cost Britain

2. The rights of migrants
EU rules allow Brits to live and work in any of the 28 member countries. EU citizens can do the same in Britain. That's all set to end once the U.K. lleaves.
More than 4 million people will be affected directly. About 3 million people from other EU states live in the U.K., and 1.2 million Brits live in other EU countries.
The most likely scenario is an agreement that will let migrants remain in the country of their choosing. But nothing is guaranteed.
Some Brits are taking out an insurance policy. They flooded the Republic of Ireland with tens of thousands of passport applications in the months after the June referendum in an effort to keep an EU passport. Germany, Italy, Sweden, Poland and Hungary also reported a surge in interest in the days immediately after the vote.
Meanwhile, some EU citizens have been completing a mountain of paperwork to apply for permanent resident status in the U.K.

3. Trade and tariffs
EU membership allows Britain to sell goods and services across the bloc under a free trade agreement. Brexit puts that all at risk.
It's no small matter: The EU is the U.K.'s biggest trading partner, providing a market for 44% of all British exports and supplying 53% of its imports.
Prime Minister Theresa May said in January that she wants to negotiate a clean break with the EU and a new free trade deal at the same time.
Big free trade deals, however, can take a decade to agree. EU officials say they won't even discuss a future trading relationship with Britain until other issues are settled.
May has stuck to her guns, warning European leaders that she would rather leave the EU with "no deal" than a "bad deal." Crashing out of the bloc would force Britain to operate under World Trade Organization rules -- meaning new trade barriers and red tape.
 Trump says he wants a U.K. trade deal. Don't hold your breath
4. Three sacred cows
Deal or no deal, May will attempt to secure the best possible outcome for certain key industries including auto manufacturing, airlines and financial services.
The financial and related services sector accounts for 12% of U.K. GDP. London is the world's No.1 location for trading in foreign currencies.
London also handles about 75% of all trade in euro-denominated interest rate derivatives. Eurozone officials are likely to push for these transactions to be conducted within the EU.
A deal that preserves some banking access to EU markets would be a major win. A failure could cost London thousands of well paid jobs and billions in business.
If Britain crashes out of the EU and is forced to trade under WTO rules, automakers will face new tariffs on cars shipped to Europe, and higher costs on imported parts. Cars made in Britain get nearly 60% of their parts from outside the U.K. -- mostly from the EU -- and 56% of those cars are sold back into the EU.
"No deal would be the very worst case for the U.K. auto industry and would put at risk the competitiveness of the industry" said Ford's (F) European CEO Jim Farley on Wednesday.
Carmakers have already sought government assurances that they will be protected if Britain leaves the EU internal market. Nissan (NSANY) is said to have received some -- although the details have never been revealed.
Aviation presents its own thorny challenges. Flights to and from the U.K. are covered by an Open Skies agreement with the EU. If no replacement deal is reached on time, flights could be grounded.
Airlines need an agreement by the middle of next year so they can plan their flight schedules for 2019.
British airlines that want to continue to operate flights within the EU, for example from Germany to Italy, face another headache. They could be forced to establish EU subsidiaries and rework their ownership structures.
5. Border controls
The U.K. is an island nation but it still shares a land border with the EU.
The Republic of Ireland is a member of the EU (and will remain so), while neighboring Northern Ireland is part of the U.K. Residents currently enjoy free movement across the border.
Britain leaving Europe's single market, and its customs union, would present major new challenges in a region that was plagued by violence for decades. A new "hard border" could be the end result.

And if Scotland votes to leave Britain, the British Isles could be home to two EU land borders.
Scotland held an independence referendum in 2014, with 55% of voters choosing to remain a part of the U.K.
Brexit may have changed the equation for Scots, however. The First Minister of Scotland, Nicola Sturgeon, has already demanded a second referendum. Scotland voted by a big margin against Brexit.
The London Stock Exchange and Deutsche Boerse both said they regretted the decision.
"A rare opportunity to ... strengthen the global competitiveness of Europe's financial markets has been missed," said Joachim Faber, chairman of the supervisory board at the German firm.
The two exchanges have made multiple attempts in the past to combine their operations.
Deutsche Boerse had also planned a tie-up with the NYSE Euronext in 2012, but that too was blocked by the European Commission.
The latest deal, which was announced in February 2016, was billed as a "merger of equals." It was expected to build a powerful link between Europe's premier financial centers. London is a global center for banking and insurance, while Frankfurt hosts the European Central Bank and the finance hub for the German economy.
The European Commission's top anti-trust official Margrethe Vestager said the companies didn't offer enough concessions to guarantee there would be sufficient competition in the market after a merger.
The London exchange had refused the Commission's request to sell its MTS bond-trading platform, arguing that the divestment would cause various problems, including damaging its business in Italy.
 Westinghouse Electric is filing for bankruptcy
Shares in the London Stock Exchange jumped by about 3% after the announcement. Shares in Deutsche Boerse were also edging up by about 0.5%.
The announcement comes on the same day that the U.K. has begun the two-year process of extracting itself from the European Union, a bloc of 28 nations with free trade and virtually open borders. The U.K. voted in June 2016 for Brexit.
Vestager said Brexit was not a factor in her decision to block the deal.
The British pound crashed following the Brexit referendum. It had been trading at $1.50 just before the referendum results came out; now it's at $1.24. It weakened further on Tuesday after Scotland voted to have a new referendum on independence from the U.K. It's now edging up a bit.
Traders are nervous about Britain's prospects for securing a good Brexit deal with the EU. Business leaders are hoping to preserve as much free trade as possible to avoid the introduction of new tariffs and regulatory red tape.
2. Global market overview: Global stock markets had been climbing up Wednesday morning but the mood has now soured.
U.S. stock futures are holding steady.
European markets are mixed. The FTSE 100 index in London is dipping down a bit.
Asian markets ended the session with mixed results. All the Chinese indexes posted losses.
This comes after a positive Tuesday for the Dow Jones industrial average, S&P 500 and Nasdaq. Each index rose by 0.6% to 0.7%.
Before the Bell newsletter: Key market news. In your inbox. Subscribe now!
3. Toshiba's woes: Westinghouse Electric is filing for bankruptcy, according to its Japanese owner Toshiba.
Toshiba has been hit with billions of dollars of losses from problems at Westinghouse's nuclear operations.
The Chapter 11 bankruptcy filing allows Toshiba (TOSYY) to limit exposure to future losses at Westinghouse.
The Japanese firm said in a statement Wednesday that Westinghouse will no longer be under its control and will be deconsolidated from its financial results.
4. Samsung's new phone: The Samsung Galaxy S8 will be released on Wednesday around 11 a.m ET. The new phone is expected to feature a sleek redesign.
The complete recall of the fire-prone Galaxy Note 7 means Samsung needs a flawless rollout of the new Galaxy S8. Experts say Samsung can bounce back, but there is no room for error.
5. Earnings and economics: Lululemon athletica (LULU) is among the highest profile companies that will release earnings Wednesday. The results will come out after the close.
The U.S. Energy Information Administration will release weekly crude inventories data at 10:30 a.m. ET. These reports are known to move markets when there is more or less crude than expected.
Download CNN MoneyStream for up-to-the-minute market data and news
6. Coming this week:
Wednesday - Samsung launches new Galaxy S8 smartphone; U.K. set to trigger Brexit negotiations; Lululemon (LULU) earnings Thursday - U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis releases updated GDP report for fourth quarter; H&M (HNNMY) earnings Friday - Blackberry (BBRY, Tech30) earnings; Final day of the first quarter of 2017
The financial disaster has spread to the Japanese firm, which last month wrote down the value of Westinghouse by 712.5 billion yen ($6.4 billion).
Toshiba (TOSBF) said the Chapter 11 bankruptcy filing will limit its exposure to future losses at Westinghouse. The U.S. company will no longer be under Toshiba's control and will be stripped out of its financial results, the Japanese conglomerate said.
Toshiba warns net loss could hit $1 trillion
"The environment of nuclear power is so severe at this moment, it was not a sustainable business," said Kazunori Ito, an equity analyst at Morning Star.
Westinghouse's bankruptcy filing "is the only way for Toshiba to limit or determine the amount of loss at this point," he said.
That loss is going to be huge.
Dumping Westinghouse could drag Toshiba to a net loss of about 1 trillion yen ($9 billion) for the financial year ending this month, the Japanese company said Wednesday, nearly three times the 390 billion yen ($3.5 billion) loss it had flagged last month.

Westinghouse and Toshiba are working with the owners of the two U.S. nuclear power projects to come up with plans to continue construction "during an interim period," the Japanese firm said. It wasn't immediately clear what will happen to the unfinished projects in the long term.
Toshiba first warned of a massive hit from its U.S. nuclear unit back in December.
Since that news emerged, the company has twice delayed its audited earnings, and its shares have more than halved in value.
Toshiba and Westinghouse, storied companies now struggling to survive
Westinghouse is what is left today of what was once a major industrial conglomerate that helped change the world during the late 19th and early 20th centuries.
Founder George Westinghouse, a prolific inventor, started making air brakes which greatly improved the safety of train travel and freight transportation. He was a key advocate of the alternating electrical current that is still used around the globe today, rather than the direct current which had been pioneered by Thomas Edison.
 Toshiba chairman steps down as company takes hit from U.S. nuclear business
Toshiba is an iconic Japanese company that now faces the threat of being delisted from the Tokyo Stock Exchange because of its delay in publishing earnings and a $1.2 billion accounting scandal that was uncovered in 2015.
To help shore up its finances, Toshiba is looking to sell a significant stake in its prized memory chips business.
It's a humiliating fall from grace for a company that has been around since the 1870s. Toshiba manufactured Japan's first light bulb and gave the country its first electric washing machines, vacuum cleaners and microwave ovens.
Toshiba then charged into the tech industry, making a global name for itself as a pioneer laptop maker and developer of flash memory technology.
A nuclear bet gone sour
The company bet big on the nuclear industry in 2006, acquiring Westinghouse for $5.4 billion. It was a bold deal that came at a time of renewed interest in nuclear power.
But the meltdown at Japan's Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant in 2011 changed things. In the face of souring public opinion on nuclear energy and stricter safety requirements, hopes of a nuclear renaissance soon faded.
Analysts said Toshiba paid too much for Westinghouse, forcing it to maintain an aggressive nuclear power plant sales forecast. That led to Westinghouse acquiring nuclear construction business CB&I Stone & Webster in 2015.
The deal was supposed to help Westinghouse complete the U.S. reactor projects. Instead, costs spiraled out of control. Toshiba later admitted that it may have overestimated the value of CB&I Stone & Webster.
-- CNNMoney's Chris Isidore contributed to this report.
"These measures have to be taken in full collaboration with the industry," de Juniac told CNNMoney's Richard Quest. "We know how to protect passengers and goods against threats. What we want is to collaborate with public authorities, with governments, to find the appropriate measure."
 Airline electronics ban: What you need to know
In addition, de Juniac questioned why the United States and the United Kingdom don't include the same airports in their laptop bans.
"How can laptops be secure in the cabin on some flights and not others," he said, "especially on flights originating at a common airport?"
He also warned the bans could hurt the airlines.
"It is clear that any ban targeting a country or an airport has significant negative consequences on bookings for the affected airlines," de Junaic told Quest.
He pointed to a drop in bookings in countries that were included in President Trump's travel ban and said he believes the new rules about electronics will have a similar impact on certain airlines.
The airlines most likely to be affected are those that fly direct to the US from the affected airports. Among them are EgyptAir, Emirates Airline, and Etihad Airways.
 Airlines try to ease laptop ban headache for passengers
Some powerful voices have claimed the ban is at least partially motivated by business interests.
Sultan Al Qassemi, a prominent Emirati commentator, wrote in an article last week that he has "no doubt that a significant reason behind the electronic ban is to stifle competition from Gulf airlines, and to encourage U.S. bound passengers to fly on American carriers."
The U.S. Department of Homeland Security has denied that protectionism had anything to do with the ban.
--CNNMoney's Jethro Mullen and Mark Thompson contributed to this report.
"To expand Obamacare when the program is in a death spiral is not responsible policy," said Melika Willoughby, the governor's spokeswoman. "Kansas must prioritize the care and service of vulnerable Kansans, addressing their health care needs in a sustainable way, not expanding a failing entitlement program to able-bodied adults."
The vote comes just days after House GOP leaders in Washington, D.C., opted to pull their bill to repeal major portions of Obamacare. The bill would have immediately barred new states from expanding Medicaid and ended enhanced federal funding for expansion in 2020.
Some 11 million low-income adults have gained coverage in the 31 states that have expanded Medicaid so far.
 McAuliffe pushes Virginia Medicaid expansion after GOP's failure to repeal Obamacare
Kansas is not the only state looking to expand Medicaid. Democratic governors in North Carolina and Virginia also want to do so, though it's unlikely to get through their Republican legislatures. In Maine, residents have gathered enough signatures to put expansion on the ballot in November.
Kansas Republicans, who control the state legislature, had never been very interested in broadening the program. Previous bills seeking to expand KanCare, as the state's Medicaid program is known, didn't go anywhere.
But many conservative lawmakers were swept out of office in last year's election, which served as a referendum on Brownback's deep tax cuts that have roiled the state budget. They were replaced by a group of moderate members, who are more open to expansion.
 Trump administration open to making some Medicaid recipients work, pay premiums
Legislators also faced heavy lobbying from the state hospital association and other expansion supporters, who used the 2015 closing of a rural Kansas hospital to rally residents' support. They point out that the state has forfeited nearly $1.8 billion in federal funds since 2014, much of which would go to bolster hospitals, which have to care for the uninsured.
Some 264,000 Kansas residents, or about 9.1%, were uninsured in 2015, according to the most recent Census data available. All told, expanding Medicaid would bring 152,000 people onto the Medicaid rolls, including people who had coverage elsewhere but would qualify for the broadened program, according to Robert St. Peter, CEO of Kansas Health Institute, a policy and research group.
Regulators cited an "extensive and pervasive pattern" of violations at Wells Fargo, including the recent fake account scandal as well as other misconduct like steering minority homebuyers into more expensive mortgages than white borrowers.
"Violations across multiple lines of business within the bank (resulted) in significant harm to large numbers of consumers," the OCC wrote in the report.
The "needs to improve" rating is based on a review of practices between 2009 and 2012, and many of them have been resolved. But the rating will affect Wells Fargo adversely going forward because it will result in sanctions and the potential loss of business. Wells Fargo warned that some states, counties and municipalities can only work with lenders that have a "satisfactory" rating or higher.
Wells Fargo (WFC) said the downgrade will cause new restrictions and limitations on its ability to conduct acquisitions and could slow approval for opening bank branches. Wells Fargo said it may also lose expedited processing of applications to relocate branches or sell debt.
 Fed official likens Wells Fargo fraud to mortgage crisis
Wells Fargo CEO Tim Sloan said in a statement that the bank is "disappointed" with the rating given its "strong track record" of working with low and moderate income communities.
"We are committed to addressing the OCC's concerns because restoring trust in Wells Fargo and building a better bank for our customers and communities is a top priority," Sloan said.
Regulators cited a long list of settlements between Wells Fargo and the government over the past 15 years, including the recent scandal where the bank's employees opened up to 2 million fake accounts.
The OCC noted that Wells Fargo management "instituted policies, procedures and performance standards" that contributed to the scandal.
Wells Fargo's wildly-unrealistic sales goals pushed employees to open unauthorized accounts and the bank has since apologized and replaced the targets.
The OCC said it also has a reason to believe that between 2004 and 2008 Wells Fargo's mortgage business engaged in a pattern of "discrimination on the basis of race or color." It cited Wells Fargo's 2012 settlement with the government to provide $125 million to African American and Hispanic borrowers who were steered into subprime mortgage loans and who paid higher fees and rates than white borrowers.
Regulators also pointed to allegations that Wells Fargo discriminated against pregnant women; a September settlement for illegally repossessing 413 motor vehicles owned by service members; and evidence of deceptive student loan practices and other violations.
Murphy once worked for Fairfield Greenwich, which invested about $7 billion with Madoff and was later sued by investors who lost money. The fund agreed to an $80 million settlement.
Madoff was arrested in December 2008 for running the world's largest Ponzi scheme and defrauding investors of $20 billion. He pleaded guilty to fraud charges. Now 78, he is serving 150 years in a federal prison in North Carolina.
One of Madoff's two sons, Mark, hanged himself on the second anniversary of his father's arrest.
 Madoff haunted by son's suicide: 'I live with that'
"I was responsible for my son Mark's death, and that's very, very difficult," Madoff later told CNNMoney from prison. "I live with that."
Shortly after Madoff's arrest, a French businessman whose firm lost $1.4 billion to Madoff's Ponzi scheme killed himself at his desk in his Manhattan office.
The enormous tax relief will also add tens of billions of dollars to Aramco's coffers at a time of growing concern over how much the world's largest oil company is actually worth.
While Saudi Arabia has said Aramco could be valued at $2 trillion in an expected 2018 IPO, some analysts believed that price tag was too generous.
Saudi Arabia badly needs the Aramco IPO to go smoothly because it would generate a cash windfall at a time when plunging oil revenue has blown a hole in its once-vaunted budget.
The reduced tax rate announced by Saudi Arabia could add $1 trillion to Aramco's valuation, according to Rystad Energy. The research firm now pegs Aramco's valuation at $1.4 trillion, compared with just $400 billion previously.
"This tax change has a huge impact," Rystad wrote in a report on Tuesday. "This change implies more money is left for Saudi Aramco, which makes the company more attractive for investors."
Aramco CEO Amin Nasser cheered Saudi Arabia's tax shift as "another positive step in the diversification of the kingdom's economy."
 This Texas oilfield is messing with OPEC
Saudi Arabia is the world's largest oil exporter, but its finances have been hobbled by the supply glut created in large part by the U.S. shale oil revolution. OPEC's efforts to drown shale producers in cheap crude sent oil prices crashing to levels far below what Saudi Arabia needs to balance its budget. The kingdom has been forced to lay off workers, remove generous subsidies and sell debt to the public.
Last year, Saudi Arabia announced a new strategy dubbed Vision 2030 that aims to break the country's "addiction" to crude. A key component of that plan is to sell a stake in Aramco to the public and then invest the proceeds at home and abroad.
Aramco told CNNMoney in January that its IPO is still on schedule for 2018 and the company recently tapped a small U.S. investment bank to be the offering's sole independent adviser.
If the national oil company achieves a valuation of $2 trillion, it would need to sell just 5% of itself to raise $100 billion. That would raise four times as much as the 2014 IPO of Alibaba, which is the largest IPO on record.
Saudi Arabia Finance Minister Mohammed bin Abdullah Al-Jadaan stressed that its tax break on Aramco and other large oil companies will have "no impact on the government's ability to deliver services to its citizens."
The Cheddar's deal gives Darden another brand that is regionally popular but does not have a national footprint. Most Cheddar's locations are in Texas and the Southeast.
Cheddar's focuses on American comfort food classics like chicken-fried steak, ribs, and macaroni and cheese. This is the first acquisition for Darden since it bought the Yard House chain in 2012. Darden sold Red Lobster to private equity firms in 2014.
In addition to Olive Garden and Yard House, Darden owns the LongHorn Steakhouse, The Capital Grille, Seasons 52, Bahama Breeze and Eddie V's chains.
The good news for Darden is the latest in a stunning turnaround since the company was essentially taken over by the activist investor group Starboard in 2014.
Starboard successfully led a shareholder revolt that caused then-CEO Clarence Otis to step down and the company's COO at the time, Gene Lee, to replace him -- with Starboard's blessing.
 Olive Garden unveils its latest all-you-can-eat deal
Starboard attacked Darden in a scathing slide presentation that detailed all the culinary sins that the investment firm thought were ruining the company and keeping investors away, such as too much sauce and a menu that had strayed from its Italian-American roots.
My colleague Cristina Alesci and I did our own taste test in 2014 after Starboard unleashed its attack on the company -- and we concurred with Starboard. We did not find Olive Garden's food to our liking.
But since Starboard took over, the company has been in growth mode again. And the investment has been such a success that Starboard leader Jeffrey Smith decided to step down as Darden chairman last year, citing the progress the company had made in its turnaround.
Olive Garden sales have picked up, largely because of a changing menu mix and higher prices. One problem the company is still having is that it has been unable to dramatically expand its customer base.
The chain's traffic fell slightly again in the quarter and is lower for the fiscal year as well. But Darden has held up well in an environment that has been tough for some other restaurant chains lately.
Lower prices for many agricultural commodities have led people to take advantage of cheaper groceries and dine in more instead of eating out.
And as long as Olive Garden keeps offering its famous breadsticks and neverending pasta passes, it looks like investors will be just as satisfied with Darden's stock as Olive Garden loyalists are with its food.
1. EU trade
Promise: The "exact same benefits" as the U.K. currently has within the Single Market and Customs Union.
Britain has said it will leave Europe's free trade area and customs union. EU officials and countries such as Germany have made clear repeatedly that countries outside the EU cannot enjoy the same trade benefits as members. Ergo, some of those benefits will be lost.
2. Trade deals
Promise: Lots of new trade deals with new countries, ready to sign on the day of departure from the EU.
Trade deals are hugely complex and take years to negotiate. The first priority for hard pressed U.K. officials will be to agree a new trade deal with the EU -- by far the U.K.'s biggest export market. Experts say the chances of that happening within two years are very slim, and a transitional arrangement of some kind is likely.
 Qatar will invest another $6 billion in U.K.
3. Money
Promise: Invest savings from the EU budget in public services, including £350 million a week for healthcare.
It's unclear how much Britain will generate in savings because the terms of the divorce bill have yet to be finalized. But they won't exceed £190 million a week and the black hole created in government coffers by the impact of Brexit on economic growth will eat up much of those.
 Just 29% of Brits think Brexit will be good for the economy
4. Northern Ireland
Promise: No changes to the border between Northern Ireland and the Republic.
The U.K. government has said that keeping the Irish border open will be one of the priorities of its Brexit negotiations.
However, the practicalities are tricky. If -- as planned -- the U.K. leaves the EU's customs union, which guarantees free movement of goods, some form of border check might be unavoidable.

5. Rights
Promise: Citizens', workers' and environmental rights currently guaranteed by membership of the EU to be fully protected.
The EU has a strong record of promoting workers' rights, health and safety regulations, and consumer and environmental protection. These are guaranteed by EU laws and will stop applying to the U.K. once the country leaves the bloc.
To safeguard these rights, the government's plan is to pass the "Great Repeal Bill" which will repeal all of the EU laws and replace them with domestic laws guaranteeing the same rights.
6. Security
Promise: A deal on security that maintains and enhances cooperation with the EU.
As a member of the EU, the U.K. is part of the European arrest warrant system, a member of law enforcement agency Europol and has access to the Schengen information sharing system.
It is possible for the U.K. to negotiate continued access to these bodies, similar to other countries outside the EU.
7. United Kingdom
Promise: The integrity of the U.K. will be protected and made stronger.
Scotland voted by a big margin to remain in the EU. Its government wants a referendum on independence from the U.K. It says Brexit, and the British government's stated intention to take the U.K. out of the EU free trade area, constitute a material change in circumstances since the last vote on independence in 2014.
8. Science
Promise: Science and research partnerships with the EU strengthened.
The EU sees a close connection between free movement of people and science. When Switzerland voted to restrict free movement of EU citizens in 2014, the EU promptly suspended its status as a full "associated country" to its science funding program.
London is currently home to the European Medicines Agency, which approves new medicines for use across the EU. The agency will almost certainly move after Brexit -- many European countries, including the Netherlands, Sweden, Denmark, Hungary and Bulgaria are already pitching to host it.
 Oxford warns of 'enormous damage' if Brexit forces EU staffers out
9. Date
Promise: The U.K. will be fully out, including required ratification, in 2019.
Prime Minister Theresa May will trigger the formal Brexit process on Wednesday, starting the clock ticking on a two year period of negotiation. Extending that period would require the agreement of all 27 other EU states.
May has said it would be better for the U.K. to leave without a deal, rather than accept a bad deal for Britain.

10. Immigration
Promise: A dramatic reduction in net migration while also keeping the U.K. open to the talent and skills that U.K. businesses need.
Brexit campaigners have been walking back this promise since the days immediately following the June 23 referendum last year, emphasizing a commitment instead to "control" the U.K's borders.
Speaking on Monday, chief Brexit official David Davis was asked whether the government would cap the number of EU workers coming to the U.K. Here's what he said:
"I cannot imagine that the policy will be anything other than that which is in the national interest, which means that from time to time we'll need more, from time to time we'll need less migrants."
The three original negotiators see the global economic and security order at risk if the Trump threats of tariffs and protectionism become reality -- and other countries adopt the same policies in retaliation.
Protectionism "is an atomic bomb for trade," said Jaime Serra Puche, Mexico's former secretary of trade and industry. On ending NAFTA: "We will be shooting ourselves in the foot as a region."
The sentiment was echoed by Carla Hills, former U.S. trade representative under President George H.W. Bush: "If we cut off our neighbors, we're cutting ourselves."
 What American manufacturing looks like in the Trump era
If the United States "decided to withdraw from the NAFTA, I think the results would be disastrous," said John Weekes, Canada's former chief NAFTA negotiator.
The three former negotiators were reunited at a panel discussion held at the University of Minnesota's Carlson School of Management to defend the gains of NAFTA.
Trump labeled NAFTA the "worst deal ever" and a "one-sided deal" that's only benefited Mexico.
Unsurprisingly, NAFTA's architects disagree.
"I give it an A+, maybe an A++," said Hills, who was also one of the first women in U.S. history to serve in a cabinet role as secretary of housing and urban development in the Ford administration.
"It's been good for Canada," said Weekes, 75.
"It went way beyond what we were predicting," said Serra Puche, 65.
 Mexico ready to 'step away from NAFTA' if new deal isn't good
Hills, 83, is today just a little older than Trump's top trade negotiator, 79-year-old commerce secretary Wilbur Ross. She cited some stats to back up her grading of NAFTA.
Before the agreement was signed in 1994, about 700,000 U.S. jobs depended on trade with Mexico, Hills said. Today, 5 million American jobs depend on trade with Mexico.
She also pushed back against Trump's strategy to negotiate one-on-one trade deals with countries instead of agreements with multiple countries like NAFTA.
Her argument: The vast majority of U.S. exporters are small and medium sized businesses. With several individual deals, those business owners would have to learn different rules and regulations for each country they export to.
 Trump 1, free trade 0: G20 drops pledge to fight protectionism
"I don't know how these small businesses will manage," said Hills. She argues that such a headache for employers justifies large, multinational agreements.
Serra sees two events colliding soon: NAFTA negotiations and Mexico's presidential elections in July 2018. The current president, Enrique Peña Nieto, cannot run again because of term limits.
Already, populist Mexican leaders like Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador are gaining traction early in the campaign for taking critical stances against Trump.
Ross, the current U.S. trade negotiator, said formal talks won't begin until the "latter part" of 2017. He expects talks to last about a year, which means it would go past Mexico's elections.
"I can picture a scenario in which we're in the middle of the negotiations and the politicians are in the middle of the elections...[and] the most radical candidate and the most anti-American candidate will have the most popular support. That could easily happen," Serra said. "I can see retaliation after retaliation after retaliation...that is a nightmare."
 My American job is moving to Mexico
Most of the 300 jobs will be moved to Mexico. The first round of cuts is to make room for jobs at an assembly plant in Texas, Jones said.
Jones said the plant is offering a week's pay for every year of service, along with $1,500 and several months of health coverage. But employees can lose those benefits if they accept a new job before their position at Rexnord officially ends.
Rexnord, down the road from Carrier, finalizes deal to ship 300 jobs to Mexico
The Rexnord announcement came a day before President Trump touted a "big announcement" by Ford about jobs in Michigan.
Big announcement by Ford today. Major investment to be made in three Michigan plants. Car companies coming back to U.S. JOBS! JOBS! JOBS!
Jones, the union president, said he's been paying attention to Trump's proclamations.
"I just want to see some results," he said. "If he's sincere about what he's campaigned on, or what he's said since he's been elected, labor would most certainly sit at the table with him and see what we can do to keep jobs here."
-- CNNMoney's Patrick Gillespie contributed to this story.
But those concerns eased on Tuesday as traders focused on statements from the White House signaling a focus on tax reform.
"There was concern this was going to be a black eye preventing them from getting anything accomplished. Now, there's hope this moves forward tax reform," said Art Hogan, chief market strategist at Wunderlich Securities.
U.S. stocks received a boost after a new report from the Conference Board showed that consumer confidence surged in March to the highest level since December 2000.
While the survey took place before the health care vote was scrapped, it mirrors a string of other metrics that have turned more optimistic since the end of the election.
Bank stocks like Bank of America (BAC) and Morgan Stanley (MS) also rebounded on Tuesday. The group received a lift from the fact that the 10-year Treasury yield stopped sinking. Falling interest rates make it harder for banks to make money.
Before Tuesday, Wall Street displayed nerves about the fate of Trump's promise for a sweeping reform of the corporate tax code and "massive" tax cuts. Republican infighting exposed by the health care debacle could delay or water down the complex efforts to rewrite tax laws.
"The perception, right or wrong, is that the new administration has been greatly weakened by the implosion," Ed Yardeni, president of investment advisory Yardeni Research, wrote in a report to clients.
 Trump rally in jeopardy after health care debacle
Still, it's important to note that the Dow remains up 12% since the election and the eight-day losing streak only knocked it down by about 1.6%. By comparison, the August 2011 stumble wiped 7% of value from the Dow.
"It was long, but it was shallow," Hogan said of the recent slide.
CNNMoney's Fear & Greed Index briefly flipped to "extreme fear" on Monday but it has since improved to "fear" amid the market rebound.
Most of this investment was agreed upon as part of a 2015 labor deal with the United Auto Workers union.
For example, Ford is investing $850 million in its Michigan Assembly Plant in Wayne, where 3,700 people work. Ford originally pledged to put $700 million into that plant as part of the labor deal. In January, it announced plans to build its new Bronco SUV and Ranger pickup there.
Ford isn't bringing any work back to the United States from Mexico, or any other foreign country. It is however, securing that those 3,700 jobs in Wayne won't go to Mexico any time soon.
 Trump and jobs - a running fact check
The Wayne plant currently makes the small Focus and C-Max cars, but that production will shift to Mexico.
Joe Hinrichs, the head of Ford's North and South America unit, told CNNMoney the company was confident in the additional investment, even though U.S. auto sales seem to be topping out.
"We believe it's always a good time to invest in your portfolio, adding new products like the Bronco and Ranger, that are exciting to customers," he said. "We're proud of fact that we make more vehicles in U.S. than anyone else."
The vehicles it will now build in Wayne are more profitable than the small cars being shifted to Mexico.
An engine plant in Romeo, Michigan, where 500 people work, will get a $150 million investment, a move that will create or retain 130 jobs. That was also spelled out in the labor deal.
Ford is also investing $200 million in a data center in Michigan.
The investments come on top of a January announcement by Ford (F) that it would sink $700 million into electric and self-driving cars at its plant in Flat Rock, Michigan, creating 700 jobs. It also dropped plans for a $1.3 billion small car assembly plant in Mexico -- but it's shifting those cars to another plant in Mexico, not bringing them back to the United States.
Still, Trump, who before the election inaccurately accused Ford of planning to move all its U.S. plants to Mexico, has had only praise for Ford since the January announcement.
He has also praised other automakers who have announced U.S. investments and hiring plans -- often following their own 2015 labor deals.
 Ford says profit will fall 50%
On Jan. 8, Fiat Chrysler (FCAU) announced a $1 billion investment to expand factories in Ohio and Michigan, which will create 2,000 jobs by 2020.
And General Motors (GM), which is planning to layoff 4,400 workers at four plants, has balanced that with plans to invest $1 billion in U.S. factories and create or retain 7,000 domestic jobs. It also said about 700 of the workers being laid off will be rehired in the future.
Trump cited those auto hiring plans on a March 15 trip to Michigan.
"And that's just the beginning, folks. In fact, I told them, that's peanuts -- that's peanuts," he said in March. "We're going to have a lot more."
But the reality is that the demand for coal in the United States has been declining for years due to capitalism, not government regulations.
The falling price of natural gas is the primary reason for the plunge in use of coal by utilities. Renewable energy sources, such as wind and solar, are also becoming more competitive.
"There are a lot of market forces already driving the utility industry towards cleaner energy," said Kevin Rennert, visiting fellow with Resources for the Future, a Washington Think Tank concentrating on energy issues. "Getting rid of the [Obama rules] doesn't change that."
 Trump promises more coal and steel jobs. China is cutting 500,000
The environmentalists and other experts say scrapping the rules won't mean a jobs boom at coal mines. Especially since overseas markets, such as China, are cutting their consumption of American coal and consumers are using more efficient appliances and light bulbs that limit the pace of increased electrical consumption at home.
"The saddest part of this whole thing is Trump is raising false hopes in coal country for a revival that will never happen," said David Doniger, director of climate and clean air at the Natural Resource Defense Council.
The amount of coal used to produce electricity in the United States has dropped by about 35% since the high point in 2007, according to the Energy Department figures. Most of that decline is attributable to the increased use of natural gas, with renewable energy becoming more of a factor in recent years.
 Why Trump can't bring back coal jobs
The rules Trump is aiming at were unveiled by Obama in August 2015. The plan set targets for deep cuts in overall carbon emissions by power utilities between 2005 and 2030. But the rules never went into effect, as the U.S. Supreme Court put them on hold while lower courts heard legal challenges which are ongoing.
Still even without the rules being in effect, 2016 was the first year in which natural gas produced more electricity than did coal, according to Energy Department figures. About 35% of electricity came from burning natural gas, while coal, which used to produce half the nation's electricity, only produced 30% last year. Another 19% came from nuclear power while 15% came from renewable sources.
"The market forces may get us to Clean Power Plan [emission reduction] goals on their own," said Doniger.
 Top coal exec to Trump: 'Temper' your coal job promises
The Energy Department estimates that even without Obama's rules, the use of coal by power plants through 2050 will remain essentially flat, even while the need for electricity will increase by 35%. Even the head of the coal industry's trade group isn't disputing that forecast.
"There is going to be continuing competition between coal, natural and renewable for the power generation market," said Betsy Monseu, CEO of the Amercian Coal Council. She said the industry's big concern is that the Obama rules would cause an even sharper drop in demand for coal as states and utilities moved to phase out remaining coal-fired power plants to meet the tougher emissions targets.
The news comes as Prime Minister Theresa May prepares to trigger the official EU exit process on Wednesday.
"We are looking beyond the boundaries of our own continent, ready to embrace all the opportunities of this new era," said Liam Fox, U.K. secretary of state for international trade.
The London portfolio of Qatar Investment Authority (QIA), which manages $335 billion of assets, also includes the city's Olympic village, and a stake in banking district Canary Wharf.
"It is no exaggeration to say that, through these ventures, Qatar has become part of the fabric of our nation," Fox said.
 Middle East country buys chunk of Empire State Building
Qatar's investments are not just in British real estate.
It came to the rescue of Barclays (BCS) during the global financial crisis, injecting billions of pounds and helping the British bank dodge a government bailout. It's still the biggest shareholder with about 6%.
 Qatar is lost billions on Deutsche Bank
Al Thani was in the U.K. this week at the head of a delegation of government officials and senior executives from the QIA, Qatar Petroleum and Qatar Airways.
The carrier, and Doha international airport, were hit last week by a U.S. rule that bans passengers on many flights from the Middle East to the U.S. from carrying any electronic device larger than a smartphone on board.
 Airline electronics ban: What you need to know
The U.K. introduced similar rules for several airlines and airports in the region but left Qatar Airways and Doha airport off its list of targets.
The subsidies were at the center of a court battle between House Republicans and the Obama administration. A district court judge last year ruled that the subsidies were illegal and must stop. However, she stayed her decision while the Obama administration appealed.
Now that the White House has changed hands, House GOP lawmakers are in the uncomfortable situation of suing Health Secretary Tom Price. At a court hearing last month, both parties asked to have more time to come to a resolution.
 Saving Obamacare is now up to Trump
The subsidies continue to be paid this year, but insurers want to know whether lawmakers intend to fund them for 2018. If they don't, many, if not all, carriers would likely drop out of the exchanges next year.
"Cost-sharing reductions help millions of Americans get the care and coverage they need," America's Health Insurance Plans, a main industry group, said in a statement last month. "They are a critical part of ensuring short-term stability of the market."
Until last week, it was widely expected that the Republicans would agree to pay the subsidies, which are expected to cost $9 billion this year and $11 billion next year, in order to have a smooth transition to a GOP health plan. But now that the House has shelved the bill, the future is more uncertain.
 Obamacare survived: What all this means for you
The Republicans believe that letting Obamacare fail will force Democrats to come to the table to negotiate changes to the law. This could prompt lawmakers to withhold funding to spark an exodus of insurers.
ObamaCare will explode and we will all get together and piece together a great healthcare plan for THE PEOPLE. Do not worry!
However, that is a risky strategy because it could leave millions of lawmakers' constituents uninsured. Some 12.2 million people signed up for Obamacare this year.
The House doesn't have much time to decide. Insurers only have a few more weeks to determine whether they'll participate in 2018. Already, Humana has said it is pulling out, and several others are on the fence, waiting to see what the Trump administration and Congress will do.
"We're working with the Trump administration and evaluating the options in front of us," said AshLee Strong, a Ryan spokeswoman.
 Chinese airlines are offering huge salaries to foreign pilots
Based in the city of Guangzhou, state-owned China Southern is Asia's biggest airline by passengers. And Chinese air travel is expanding rapidly, creating huge demand for pilots and planes.
The country is expected overtake the U.S. as the world's largest market in the next decade, according to the International Air Transport Association.

American currently flies to Beijing and Shanghai from the U.S. The deal with China Southern will enable it to offer more than 40 connections from Beijing and more than 30 from Shanghai, American said.
China Southern travelers, meanwhile, will be able to fly on to almost 80 airports in North and South America beyond the U.S. cities the Chinese carrier serves at the moment.
 Has my pilot had too much to drink? It depends where you fly
The U.S. airline is playing catchup in China with its main domestic rivals. Delta (DAL) invested $450 million in China Eastern Airlines in 2015, and United (UAL) has close ties with Air China.
American's investment in China Southern could set off a reshuffle in the big global airline alliances.
China Southern is currently a member of Delta's SkyTeam. But Tuesday's deal may bring it into the orbit of American's Oneworld alliance, which doesn't include a mainland Chinese carrier at the moment.
-- Alanna Petroff, Felicia Wong and Steven Jiang contributed to this report.
This comes after the Dow Jones industrial average fell for its eighth day in a row on Monday, its longest slump since 2011. The S&P 500 was also down 0.1% on Monday. But the Nasdaq was up 0.2%.
It's worth keeping in mind that U.S. stocks are not far off their highest levels ever, which were hit earlier this month.
Before the Bell newsletter: Key market news. In your inbox. Subscribe now!
2. Market movers and shakers: Amazon (AMZN, Tech30) announced this morning it's acquiring Souq, the Arab world's biggest online retailer.
For many in the Middle East, Souq.com is the online shopping platform. The company was recently valued above $1 billion, according to CB Insights.
Shares in Australian hotel and resort firm Mantra Group surged by 12% overnight based on a local report saying Marriott (MAR) is considering a bid for the company. Mantra is worth about 872 million Australian dollars ($662 million).
Shares in Red Hat (RHT) and Darden Restaurants (DRI) were surging in extended trading as investors cheered their latest quarterly results. Darden also announced Monday it's buying Cheddar's Scratch Kitchen for $780 million in cash.
3. Swooping in for a deal: American Airlines (AAL) is moving into China's airspace with the purchase of a $200 million stake in a top Chinese carrier. China Southern confirmed the purchase Tuesday. Rumors about a deal had been swirling for awhile, causing shares in China Southern to surge last week.
4. Shudders in South Africa: Currency traders are pushing down the value of the South African rand based on fears that President Jacob Zuma is about to give the boot to his respected finance minister, Pravin Gordhan.
The rand plunged on Monday and is down a further 1% Tuesday versus the U.S. dollar.
Gordhan is the country's third finance minister in the last 18 months.
5. Earnings and economics: Carnival (CCL) is set to release earnings before the open Tuesday, while Dave & Buster's (PLAY) and Sonic (SONC) plan to release earnings after the close.
The U.S. Conference Board is set to release its March Consumer Confidence report at 10 a.m. ET.
Optimism among consumers, small business owners and CEOs shot up after the election, but it's not clear yet whether that improved sentiment will translate into economic gains.
Download CNN MoneyStream for up-to-the-minute market data and news
6. Coming this week:
Tuesday - U.S. Conference Board releases monthly Consumer Confidence Index; New £1 coin enters circulation in U.K.; Hillary Clinton delivers keynote speech at Professional BusinessWomen of California Conference; Carnival Corp (CCL) earnings Wednesday - Samsung launches new Galaxy S8 smartphone; U.K. set to trigger Brexit negotiations; Lululemon (LULU) earnings Thursday - U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis releases updated GDP report for fourth quarter; H&M (HNNMY) earnings Friday - Blackberry (BBRY, Tech30) earnings; Final day of the first quarter of 2017
Amazon and Souq did not disclose the size of the deal. CB Insights valued Souq at more than $1 billion after it raised $275 million from investors last year.
Souq sells more than 8 million products, mostly to customers in the Gulf countries and Egypt. It will keep its branding.
 Japan's Rakuten bets big on drones for online shopping
Amazon (AMZN, Tech30) had to beat back local competition to make the deal. Emaar Malls, an arm of Dubai's biggest real estate developer, said on Monday it had bid $800 million.
But for the CEO of Souq, Ronaldo Mouchawar, choosing Amazon was a no-brainer.
"We feel the opportunity, and growth in this part of the world is still massive," he said. "Online is just 1 to 2% of what is being purchased. For us culturally as well, Amazon is a great fit for us, and this is why Amazon was our partner and choice."
When Mouchawar founded Souq 10 years ago with two partners, e-commerce was virtually unknown in the Middle East. The company employed five people in Dubai. Now it has 3,000 workers across the Arab world.
The consulting company A.T. Kearney expects e-commerce in the Gulf region to quadruple from 2015 to 2020, to $20 billion. Grandinetti said Amazon would like to expand.
"Right now with Souq, even in just the Emirates, in Saudi, in Egypt, we have a lot of work to do because online commerce is still a very small percentage of total retail," Grandinetti told CNNMoney.
The competition will intensify next month when a new e-commerce platform, Noon, grabs a slice of the market.
 Amazon opens a grocery store with no checkout line
Noon is backed by Saudi Arabia's sovereign wealth fund and the man behind Emaar's failed bid for Souq. Noon is set to launch with 20 million products and a 3.5 million-square-foot fulfillment center in Dubai.
Amazon and Souq said the market is big enough to absorb new players. Analysts at Standard Chartered estimate that e-commerce in the region is growing 30% a year.
The deal is expected to close later this year.
The company, which is owned by the Chinese government, is planning to sell cars under the British brand MG Motor, one of its subsidiaries.
Balendran would not say when he hopes to begin making cars in India. That depends on how the talks go, he said.
 Actually, Harley-Davidson doesn't pay India's 100% tariff
China is the world's biggest car market, but automakers are being lured to India by the prospect of faster growth. Nearly 3 million passenger vehicles were sold in India in the financial year ending March 2016, according to the Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers -- an increase of more than 7% over the previous year.
Sales of cars in China rose by nearly 14% in 2016, thanks to a tax waiver on smaller vehicles, but growth is expected to slow to 5% this year.
Get in line!
Global players are already lining up. German giant Volkswagen (VLKAY) announced a strategic partnership with leading Indian manufacturer Tata Motors earlier this month, a day after the heads of Japanese rivals Toyota (TM) and Suzuki met Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi to discuss jointly developing new technologies in the country.
France's PSA, which owns Citroen and Peugeot (PUGOY), is getting back into India after staying away for two decades.

The market may be attractive, but a new, relatively unknown entrant like SAIC could find the going tough.
"To be successful, Chinese [manufacturers] need to build a clear brand positioning in a highly competitive market," said Rakesh Batra, lead automotive analyst for Ernst & Young in India.
The country's top two carmakers -- Suzuki's Indian subsidiary Maruti Suzuki and Korea's Hyundai (HYMTF) -- account for about two-thirds of sales.
"These two have been steadily at this kind of level for a number of years," Batra said. "New entrants have had to come in and fight for the 30%."
 The world's biggest automaker is coming to India
Still, India appears irresistible to Chinese carmakers looking to expand beyond their own borders. The South Asian nation is expected to become the world's third largest automobile market by 2020, after China and the United States.
"Overseas sales are a very small portion of overall sales of Chinese manufacturers, in particular for state-owned companies like SAIC," said Jing Yang, an automotive analyst at Fitch Ratings.
Price advantage?
Balendran, a former senior executive at General Motors India, recognizes there are many obstacles ahead but is confident SAIC has something to offer.
"It's a new market," he said. "Competition is a big challenge."
"If you can stand out...in terms of product attributes and innovations, obviously [you] stand to benefit," he added.
 Elon Musk hopes to bring Tesla to India 'this year'
Chinese companies may also have an edge in a market where price can make all the difference.
"Relative to the European or American brands they have better value for price, so their products are relatively cheaper," Yang said. "They [also] have a very good understanding of rural markets and small cities."
It said it has been unable to contact Ge Kun, an executive director who oversees the company's treasury and cash operations, since March 21. That's the same day, according to the company, that its chairman and controlling shareholder, Yang Kai, learned that Huishan had failed to make some of its bank payments.
 This Chinese stock just mysteriously plunged 90%
Ge, who managed relationships with the company's main bankers, sent a letter to Yang "indicating that the recent work stress had taken a toll on her health, that she would take leave of absence and does not want to be contacted at this time," Huishan said.
Ge is also Yang's wife, according to respected Chinese financial news outlet Caixin. Huishan didn't immediately respond to a request for comment on Ge and Yang's relationship.
 Major European company says employee has gone missing with $100M
The company is now trying to figure out what state its finances are in.
It said it held a meeting Thursday with 23 banks that have lent it money and is continuing to seek their support in "the increasingly challenging environment" it's facing.
Huishan has also launched a review of its financial position.
Trading in its shares in Hong Kong was halted Friday after their huge drop. They will remain suspended until the company's financial review is finished, it said.
 Investors wipe $6.6 billion of Toshiba's market value
Last week's massive plunge came more than three months after U.S. investment research firm Muddy Waters slammed Huishan in a lengthy report. It accused the company of engaging in fraud and reporting fake profits.
"It was somewhat surprising it took this long from our report for the stock to break," Muddy Waters founder Carson Block said last week. "But, given that it's a fraud and likely a manipulation, this ultimate outcome was clear to us."
Huishan rejected the Muddy Waters report when it was published in December, calling the allegations "groundless" and saying the report contained "obvious factual errors."
Tax reform, which may include tax cuts, is harder to achieve and involves tough tradeoffs. Tax cuts, on their own and without many tradeoffs, don't qualify as reform and are a much easier sell.
Real reform restructures the tax code to make it simpler, fairer, and more efficient, said Mark Mazur, a former Assistant Secretary for Tax Policy at Treasury who is now director of the nonpartisan Tax Policy Center.
For instance, reform may make the code better at spurring desirable economic activities and discouraging undesirable ones, and it would modernize the code to more accurately reflect how business is done and how Americans live today.
The last time Congress pulled off real reform was in 1986. "Tax reform has not happened in 31 years, not for lack of trying -- this is the most elusive of all the policy unicorns," noted Chris Krueger a senior policy analyst at the Cowen Washington Research Group.
Tax cuts, by contrast, have been passed many times in the past three decades.
 6 reasons tax reform may not happen this year
The chance of doing real tax reform in 2017 -- as the Trump administration keeps promising -- gets lower with each passing day given the crowded legislative agenda and questions about whether Republicans can even compromise with each other, let alone with Democrats.
The Trump Administration, meanwhile, is very eager to put a legislative win on the board.
So there may be temptation for Republicans to do one of the following: Simply pass a package of tax cuts, or pass a package of tax cuts with a "down payment on tax reform," as Mazur put it (e.g., a few structural changes but not a full overhaul of the code).
Where things stand now
To date, only House Republicans have formally put forward a serious tax reform proposal, although it hasn't been introduced as a legislative bill yet.
Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin has said the administration has been working on its own plan for the past two months and it's likely to come out "very soon." He also indicated that the Trump plan isn't likely to feature a controversial revenue-raising proposal in the House plan -- the border adjustment tax (BAT) -- at least not wholesale.
Republicans on the Senate Finance Committee, meanwhile, haven't put out a formal proposal yet, but many also have expressed skepticism over the border adjustment tax.
 What the failed Obamacare repeal means for tax reform
It's unclear whether Republicans will agree to "pay for" all the tax rate cuts they want to include. House leaders have said they want tax reform to be revenue neutral and aim to achieve that in part through the BAT. But if that gets deep-sixed, it's unclear what would take its place.
Maybe nothing. The head of the conservative House Freedom Caucus -- which normally makes a huge stink over deficits -- said on ABC's "This Week" that his group may not oppose deficits generated by tax rate cuts.
A serious tax reform bill put out in 2014 by then-chairman of the House tax-writing committee was revenue neutral. Everyone liked the tax cuts in the bill, but his proposed revenue raisers to offset the cost of the cuts were a no-go, said Dean Zerbe, former senior counsel on the Senate Finance Committee and currently national managing director at alliantgroup.
"It was so unpopular they wouldn't vote for it in their own committee," Zerbe noted.
That's why he expects if Republicans do anything with tax reform this year, they'll have to guarantee more winners than losers. His expectation: A bill that offers tax cuts and a few revenue raisers but not enough to prevent the effort from adding to deficits.
Pimco and Gross said the proceeds from the lawsuit will be donated to charity, keeping a promise the star investor had made when he sued for hundreds of millions of dollars.
Gross plans to match part of the settlement, raising the total size of the donation to $100 million, a person familiar with the matter said.
In September 2014, Gross shocked the investing world by leaving Pimco amid deep turmoil to join Janus Capital (JNS). The famous investor later said he was actually fired from Pimco. The drama rocked Pimco, which at the time managed nearly $2 trillion.
The firm has shrunk since then and manages $1.5 trillion today. It has also lost its crown as the world's largest bond firm.
When he filed suit against his former employer, Gross alleged a vast conspiracy driven by "lust for power, greed" and self interest plotted for his demise.
Pimco also announced it's taking steps to preserve the "legacy and contributions" of its founders, including Gross. As part of that, Pimco said it's naming Gross a "director emeritus," establishing an annual "Bill Gross Award" and dedicating a new "Founders Room" in its Newport Beach, Calif. headquarters.
"Pimco has always been family to me, and like any family, sometimes there are disagreements," Gross said in a joint statement with Pimco.
"I'm glad to have had the opportunity to work through those, and see the Pimco founders receiving the recognition they deserve," Gross said.
 Bill Gross says don't be fooled by Trump mirage
Echoing that sentiment, Pimco chief investment officer Dan Ivascyn hailed Gross as "larger-than-life" and said he has a "well-deserved stellar reputation as an investor and a philanthropist."
"He built this business from the ground up and we have great respect and admiration for his talents," Ivascyn said.
Gross's war with Pimco dinged his stature but he remains a frequent commentator on TV about the global markets. Earlier this month, Gross warned investors not to be "allured by the Trump mirage of 3-4% growth and the magical benefits of tax cuts and deregulation."
Boeing (BA) signed an $8 billion deal to sell 80 jets to Iran Air after many sanctions were lifted as part of an international deal on the country's nuclear program.
The planemaker is not on the list of Tehran's targets, which includes Raytheon (RTN), Oshkosh (OSK) and Bushmaster. None of them currently does any business with Iran.
"The sanctions from the Iranian side don't really have any practical importance to them," said Robin Mills, CEO of Qamar Energy and an expert on Middle East energy and investment. "These U.S. defense companies obviously don't have any assets or activities in Iran. It's just trying to score political points."
 Chinese firm fined $1.2 billion for violating U.S. sanctions on Iran
But the rising tension puts Boeing's plans on an increasingly shaky footing.
"[The Boeing deal] is a key pressure point I think because that is of course one of the few areas where U.S. trade with Iran has been specifically allowed," said Mills.
President Trump has long been critical of the Iran nuclear deal that was signed under the Obama administration.
After assuming office, Trump said he was putting Iran "on notice" and his first move against the country was including its citizens on a travel ban.
Tehran then conducted a missile test which prompted a round of U.S. sanctions that targeted 25 individuals and companies connected to Iran's ballistic missile program and Iran's Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps.
The next big test for Boeing's deal is likely to come in June, when sanction waivers signed by President Obama will be due for renewal. It's the first time Trump will have to sign them.
"The next round of waivers... are absolutely crucial," said Trita Parsi, president of the National Iranian American Council. "If the Trump administration doesn't renew them, the United States will be in direct violation of the deal. If so, the deal will start collapsing and the United States will be blamed for its collapse."
 Trump's move on Iran could cost jobs at Boeing
To complicate matters, a bill has been introduced in Congress to investigate whether Iran Air supports the Iranian Revolutionary Guard or foreign terrorist organizations.
If Iran Air were found to have such links, it would be prevented from receiving new aircraft or U.S.-made parts. That would effectively freeze the sale of jets from Boeing to Iran.
The first Boeing planes are scheduled to arrive in 2018.
Rosa and his boss, Jim Allen, say trade deals aren't their problem. The big challenge in their view is the negative public perception among young people that manufacturing is dying.
"When I think of manufacturing, it's usually the old school train of thought," says Rosa, 27, an upstate New York native, who has worked at the factory for two years. "But this is very much manufacturing."
 My American job is moving to Mexico
Rosa oversees 160 computerized printers that quietly hum at the factory of Voodoo Manufacturing in Brooklyn, N.Y. Instead of laying ink on paper, the printers repetitively lay tiny layers of plastic filament on a glass plate to create a product. Rosa helps design and maps out the product that the printers make -- an extremely creative skill.
Voodoo's office feels more like a tech start up than a blue collar firm. The office has craft beer.
Entry-level employees earn $49,000. Rosa programs the printers to make just about anything -- from iPhone cases to prosthetic hands for amputees. He's even made a replica of the Wall Street bull.
Nike (NKE) called Voodoo on a recent Wednesday to make a pilot's helmet for a new display for Air Jordan shoes. It was done six days later -- a turnover time Allen argues couldn't be done from China.
Voodoo doesn't look like your traditional assembly line.
"We are a manufacturing company. But we're just doing it differently -- more of a 21st century way of doing it," says Allen. "It doesn't have to be some big sparky, smelting thing where you're producing big billets of steel. It could be quiet little machines that are just humming along, producing parts."
Voodoo began with four employees in 2015. The company has 17 employees today, 6 of whom oversee the printers. Within the next two years, Allen aims to add another 20 jobs. He credits a New York state tax credit for small businesses with helping the company grow.

 I send money home to Mexico to support my family
Nationwide, there are 20 firms with 3D print manufacturing plants, up from three in 2013, according to Wohlers Associates, an industry group.
The industry was valued at $5.1 billion worldwide in 2015, up from less than $1 billion a decade ago, Wohlers Associates' reports.
Key to the Voodoo's success, Allen says, is something that's been in decline in many blue collar industries, especially manufacturing: job training and skills development.
Allen knows most colleges and high schools aren't teaching 3D print manufacturing. And he doesn't need PhDs or even college grads. He just needs workers willing to learn.
New hires shadow experienced employees and do manual labor first, such as cleaning the glass plates. But within a month they learn the company's software and how to program the printers -- more advanced work.
The idea is to have each employee capable of doing any task, making them more versatile.
"They're learning by doing," says Allen. "I want to give them a sense of ownership."
Trump says he plans to bring manufacturing jobs back to the United States by negotiating better trade deals. But he recently added one point to his jobs rhetoric.
"Workforce development and vocational training -- very important words," Trump said during his press conference with German Chancellor Angela Merkel on March 17.
 U.S. workers face higher risk of being replace by robots
Experts say training holds the key to adding manufacturing jobs in America. What's waning are the days of low-skill manufacturing: America doesn't make many t-shirts and toys anymore. Rising are advanced manufacturing jobs that require more critical thinking -- the 3D print manufacturer.
"3D print manufacturing has a lot of potential," says Susan Helper, an economics professor at Case Western Reserve University in Ohio. "If we have good job training, it's likely we could have more good paying jobs in 3D manufacturing."
Voodoo's willingness to train its workers is increasingly the exception, not the rule. Job training programs have been in decline due to costs, an aging workforce and a widening gap between the skills employers want and the skills employees have.
There were 21,000 apprenticeship programs in the U.S. last year, down from 26,000 in 2009 and 33,000 in 2001, according to Labor Department data.
Allen, the Voodoo director, is also wrangling with one of the toughest tasks in manufacturing: Using technology to create jobs instead of replace them. He says the technology of 3D printing complements humans.
Automation "is going to be a net job creator," Allen argues. "We're printing different products every day. ... It's something that's going to require critical thinking skills that a person has and a robot doesn't."
 Rise of the machines: Fear robots, not China or Mexico
Of course, manufacturing overall has a different story.
Several studies show automation was the overwhelming reason why America has lost roughly 5 million manufacturing jobs since 2000. One study by Ball State University concluded that 87% of the factory job losses between 2000 and 2010 were due to more efficient practices, especially better technology.
The rub is that automation also creates jobs -- just ones that require more skills than the ones lost. And often the worker who loses his or her job to automation isn't the one who gets the new job, creating winners and losers.
Displaced workers "would have to totally re-skill to get a different type of job," says Cathy Barrera, chief economic adviser at ZipRecruiter, a job search site. "We can have job growth that is sufficient to counteract the decline. But it could possibly be that none of [the new jobs] are in manufacturing."
Gordhan is the country's third finance minister in the last 18 months.
"The instruction to cancel the international investor roadshow without explanation is so bizarre that it appears, at best, calculated to humiliate the minister or, at worst, to suggest that the minister is about to be fired in a cabinet reshuffle," said David Maynier, a South African member of parliament for the official opposition party.
Gordhan had traveled with a large delegation to London to meet with investors and reassure them that South Africa is a good place to put their money. He was preparing to fly back from the U.K. on Monday night. His deputy also scrapped plans for similar meeting with U.S. investors.
"This is incredibly bad timing because it reminds people of all the tension between the controversial president and respected finance minister," said John Ashbourne, Africa economist at Capital Economics.
 Global banks handled laundered Russian cash worth hundreds of millions
Gordhan has built a reputation for being a steady hand that has expertly guided South Africa's economy and promoted business interests. He first served as finance minister between 2009 and 2014, and returned to the job in December 2015, much to the relief of international investors.
Zuma brought him back in after sacking two other finance ministers in December 2015, which crushed South African markets and the currency.
"[For Zuma] to create the same self-induced crisis for a second time would scare markets even more," warned Ashbourne.
The rand has strengthened by more than 20% over the past year alone, with much of the credit going to Gordhan.
The country's chief prosecutor had previously been pursuing a fraud case against Gordhan in October 2016, but the charges were dropped after three weeks.
The move to prosecute Gordhan was slammed by civil society groups, opposition leaders, and even senior members of the country's ruling political party, the African National Congress. More than 80 CEOs wrote an open letter in support of the finance minister.
Gordhan denied wrongdoing and described the allegations against him as "political mischief."
--CNN's Eleni Giokos and David McKenzie in Johannesburg, South Africa, contributed to this report.
The recent market retreat is a reflection of rising fears on Wall Street that Trump's bold promises of sweeping tax reform, regulatory relief and infrastructure spending is in doubt. Investors have begun to contemplate that the Trump agenda will be delayed, watered down or even derailed.
"Global financial markets are in a risk off mode after the political spectacle that unfolded last week on Capitol Hill," analysts at Rabobank wrote in a report on Monday.
CNNMoney's Fear & Greed Index briefly tipped into "extreme fear." That's a dramatic reversal from "extreme greed" shortly after Trump took office. The Dow is on track for its first monthly decline since October and worst month since January 2016.
Big banks, previously one of the hottest pockets of the market, suffered the worst losses on Monday. Morgan Stanley (MS) fell over 2%, while Goldman Sachs (GS) and Bank of America  (BAC)shed over 1% apiece.
The concern is that if Trump wasn't able to replace Obamacare, a law that Republicans almost universally detest, then how will he tackle even more complex undertakings? Trump has pledged to quickly pivot to tax reform, but that could be even more challenging, especially given the serious GOP fractures exposed by the the health care defeat.
"If the repeal and replace was any indication, tax code reform is going to have a really hard time finding any traction. It's not something that can take place overnight," said Peter Kenny, an independent market analyst and founder of Kenny's Commentary.
 Warning lights flashing for Trump rally
That's a problem because Wall Street had been banking on the "massive" tax cuts that Trump promised by August. The Dow zoomed as much as 2,800 points since the election on these hopes. But because the fundamentals (earnings, economic growth) haven't really improved, stocks have become expensive.
"Has the stock market priced in the perfect scenario that is becoming clear that we just won't get?" asked Peter Boockvar, chief market analyst at The Lindsey Group.
"A watered down Trump agenda with no changes of substance to health care and a more modest tax reform bill is NOT what I believe is currently priced in to stocks," Boockvar wrote in a report to clients.
Of course, the stock market has had enormous gains since Trump's victory, and a pullback is long overdue. A cool-off period is a healthy development for the Trump rally, most experts would agree.
It's also worth noting that while the Dow is on track for an eighth day of declines, it hasn't descended all that much. The Dow is down less than 2% during the slump and remains less than 600 points away from the all-time high set on March 1 following Trump's well-received speech to Congress.
By comparison, the last time the Dow fell eight days in a row back in August 2011 the index had shed an alarming 7% of its value.
 What the failed Obamacare repeal means for tax reform
Michael Block, chief market strategist at Rhino Trading, joked that the recent selloff is due to the "shocking reality that President Trump can't snap his fingers and get business and stock friendly policies enacted."
Block said "we are seeing the knee jerk reaction to that ideal being quashed."
So what happens next?
Wall Street will be looking for signs that the Trump agenda is not stalled.
While the health care failure is "undoubtedly a negative signal" for the rest of Trump's agenda, it is "far from a death knell," according to Isaac Boltansky, a policy analyst at Compass Point.
Still, he said the Obamacare saga signals a final tax reform deal that is "less sweeping -- both in scale and scope -- than the market is currently reflecting."
Wall Street hasn't been helped lately by renewed trouble in the oil patch. Crude retreated another 1.5% to just over $47 a barrel on Monday amid continued concerns about resurgent U.S. shale production.
Brooks said a major underlying concern is that Trump won't be able to spend as much as he promised on things like infrastructure, which would support the economy and jobs.
U.S. stock futures are all down by nearly 1%. The U.S. dollar is also weakening versus most major currencies.
The Vix volatility index is surging by 15% to hit its highest level since the U.S. election in November.
The majority of European markets are falling in early trading. And most Asian markets closed with losses.
This follows a lackluster week of trading in the U.S. The Dow Jones industrial average tumbled 1.5%, while the S&P 500 fell 1.4% and the Nasdaq dropped 1.2%.
"We expect losses from banking stocks, materials and construction firms, and healthcare companies in the next few days as the markets adjust to this setback for Trump," said Brooks.
Before the Bell newsletter: Key market news. In your inbox. Subscribe now!
2. Stock market mover -- Bank of America: Shares in Bank of America (BAC) are slumping by about 2% premarket following a 7% drop over the past week.
Bank of America, like other financial stocks, was a big beneficiary of the post-election Trump rally but now traders have gone cold on the banking giant.
3. Oil slips again: Shares in many energy companies are pushing lower as crude oil prices are declining by about 0.7% to trade around $47.70 a barrel.
This comes despite a report from OPEC that said producers' compliance with output cuts rose to 94% in February. But the oil cartel acknowledged that higher non-OPEC supply was undermining the impact of those production cuts and said it would consider extending them beyond June, when they're due to expire.
Oil prices had been trading north of $50 per barrel since late 2016 when OPEC announced major production cuts. But the price has dropped since the beginning of this month due to concerns about high supply levels.
Download CNN MoneyStream for up-to-the-minute market data and news
4. Coming this week:
Monday - Wall Street Green Summit begins Tuesday - U.S. Conference Board releases monthly Consumer Confidence Index; New £1 coin enters circulation in U.K.; Hillary Clinton delivers keynote speech at Professional BusinessWomen of California Conference; Carnival Corp (CCL) earnings Wednesday - Samsung launches new Galaxy S8 smartphone; U.K. set to trigger Brexit negotiations; Lululemon (LULU) earnings Thursday - U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis releases updated GDP report for fourth quarter; H&M (HNNMY) earnings Friday - Blackberry (BBRY, Tech30) earnings; Final day of the first quarter of 2017
"The ACA made changes in every part of the health care system," said Larry Levitt, senior vice president at the Kaiser Family Foundation, of the Affordable Care Act. "Virtually everyone has been touched by the ACA."
Some 20 million people have gained coverage under Obamacare. The nation's uninsured rate dropped to a record low 8.6% last year.
 For Trump, no closing this deal
Obamacare remains the law of the land now that the Republican effort to repeal and replace it has been shelved. The Trump administration likely will make some changes to it, and lawmakers may try again to overhaul it.
Here's how sweeping the landmark health care reform law is.
Medicare
Obamacare has meant lower premiums, deductibles and cost-sharing for the 57 million senior citizens and disabled Americans enrolled in the program. It has also reduced how much they have to pay for prescription drugs by slowly eliminating the infamous "donut hole."
The health reform law made many changes to Medicare. It slowed the growth of payment rates to hospitals and other providers, reduced payments to Medicare Advantage plans and improved benefits for enrollees.
As a result, Medicare beneficiaries have to shell out less for premiums, deductibles and co-pays because they are tied to the growth of federal spending on the program. The Obama administration estimated that the typical Medicare beneficiary pays about $700 less in premiums and cost sharing.
 Saving Obamacare is now up to Trump
Under Obamacare, Medicare enrollees also receive free preventative benefits, such as screenings for breast and colorectal cancer, heart disease and diabetes.
And Obamacare is closing the gap in Medicare's drug coverage, completely eliminating it by 2020. Senior citizens have to pay more for drugs while they are in the donut hole. For 2017, the gap begins when enrollees and their insurers spend $3,700 for medication and ends after they hit $4,950 in costs. Since Obamacare was passed in 2010, more than 11 million people have saved an average of more than $2,100 a person on prescription drugs, the Obama administration said before leaving office.
But Obamacare does mean higher costs for more affluent beneficiaries. The law froze the threshold for the Medicare premium surcharge at $85,000 for individuals and $170,000 for couples, so more people have become subject to it. The Affordable Care Act also added a premium surcharge on drug coverage for higher-income enrollees.
The Republican health care bill would have left Obamacare's changes to Medicare largely alone. However, House Speaker Paul Ryan has long advocated the overhaul of the government program. It remains to be seen whether Ryan will push for those changes later this year.
Employer-sponsored insurance
Obamacare requires that companies with at least 50 employees provide affordable insurance to their staffers who work more than 30 hours a week.
This mandate didn't have a major impact on the 150 million workers who are insured through their jobs. Most larger employers already offer coverage for full-time workers. However, setting the bar at 30 hours a week prompted some employers to extend coverage to more of their staff, since many companies had considered that threshold to be part-time.
Also, the law allows children to remain on their parents' plans until they turn 26. This has proved to be one of the more popular Obamacare provisions and has helped lower the uninsured rate of this age group.
Workers also no longer have to pay for contraceptives and preventative screenings, such as colonoscopies and mammograms. Obamacare requires these be provided free-of-charge.
Obamacare also prohibits employers from imposing annual or lifetime limits on benefits and caps out-of-pocket spending to $7,150 for single workers in 2017.
Obamacare also had an impact on employees who work at companies with fewer than 50 workers. Insurers can no longer ban workers with pre-existing conditions or ask them to pay more. The law requires plans to cover an array of benefits, including maternity, mental health and prescription drugs. And it limits insurers from charging older workers premiums more than three times those of younger workers.
However, this more comprehensive coverage has come at a price. Many small businesses have seen their premiums spike, forcing some to stop offering health insurance to their workers.
The GOP repeal effort would have eliminated the employer mandate.
Individual market
Obamacare has had the largest impact on the individual market, which was largely unregulated prior to the health reform law.
It requires insurers to cover people with pre-existing conditions and banned them from charging the sick more. The law ended the practice of insurers imposing annual or lifetime caps on benefits, and it also placed limits on annual out-of-pocket spending. It mandates that insurers provide more comprehensive benefits, including medication, maternity and mental health. It prevents insurers from charging women more and restricts premiums for older folks to no more than three times those of young adults.
 Obamacare survived: What all this means for you
Obamacare set up health insurance exchanges to allow Americans to shop for individual policies and created federal subsidies so low- and moderate-income enrollees could buy policies for less than 10% of their income. Another set of subsidies limit the deductibles and co-payments for lower-income policyholders.
Some 12.2 million people signed up for coverage through the Obamacare exchanges for 2017.
About 7 million Americans purchase individual policies outside of the Obamacare exchanges. They cannot apply for subsidies, but receive all of the other benefits.
Not everyone, however, has been happy with the changes Obamacare has brought to the insurance market. Some people are upset that they can no longer buy bare-bones policies, which come with high deductibles and few benefits, but low premiums. And many middle class Americans, particularly those who don't qualify for subsidies, say Obamacare premiums and deductibles are unaffordable.
The House legislation would have made many changes to the individual market. It would have eliminated the individual mandate, allowed insurers to charge older workers more and provide tax credits to help people pay premiums based mainly on age. The bill also would have dropped the requirement that insurers provide comprehensive coverage.
Medicaid
Before Obamacare, most Medicaid enrollees were low-income children, pregnant women, parents, the disabled and the elderly.
The health reform law opened up the program to low-income adults with incomes of up to 138% of the poverty line -- $16,400 for a single person -- in states that opted to expand their Medicaid programs. So far, 31 states, plus the District of Columbia, have done so. Some 11 million Americans have gained coverage under this provision.
Under the program, the federal government paid 100% of the costs of the expansion population for the first three years and is slowly lowering the reimbursement rate to 90%.
House Republicans were looking to make big changes to Medicaid. The bill would have not only ended the enhanced funding for Medicaid expansion, but would have curtailed federal support for the entire program.
Uninsured
Obamacare required that all Americans obtain insurance or pay a penalty, which this year hit $695 per adult or 2.5% of household income, whichever is greater.
That mandate remains but the Trump administration is weakening it.
The IRS last month quietly reversed a decision to reject tax returns that fail to indicate whether filers had health insurance, received an exemption or paid the penalty. While this has always been key to enforcing the individual mandate, the IRS had been processing returns without this information under the Obama administration.
The IRS attributed the reversal to Trump's executive order that directed agencies to reduce the potential financial burden on Americans.
A version of this story originally ran on January 2, 2017.
The share of households that expect economic prospects to worsen has increased from 42% to 53% over the same time period. Eighteen percent anticipate no change.
"Pessimism has now spread to all age groups and income brackets," said Chris Williamson, chief business economist at IHS Markit. "The most marked turnaround is evident among the poorest paid, who have switched from being the most optimistic to now being the most downbeat."

Households in Scotland, where 62% of the public voted against leaving the EU, are the most pessimistic about its impact on the economy.
People in manufacturing and construction roles were the only groups of workers who see Brexit as beneficial in the long run. Williamson said manufacturing workers might see the advantage of a weaker pound that gives a boost to exports. The currency has fallen 17% since the referendum.
A separate report published Monday by the cross-party think-tank Demos said Wales and Northern Ireland are most vulnerable to the economic risks posed by Brexit.
Wales voted in favor of leaving the bloc, while voters in Northern Ireland voted to stay. Both rely on EU funding, exports to the EU and, in the case of Northern Ireland, a large number of European workers.
Brexit: EU says Britain's divorce bill may hit $62 billion
Prime Minister Theresa May is expected to trigger the official EU exit process on Wednesday.
While the U.K. economy performed unexpectedly well in the months following the June referendum, reality is starting to bite. Inflation jumped to 2.3% in February over the previous year, and consumers are starting to buckle under the pressure of higher prices.
Williams said it would be fascinating to see how sentiment changes during negotiations.
"For now it seems that the population has at least become more downbeat on the economic consequences of Brexit," he said.
The survey of 1,500 respondents was collected as part of the monthly Markit Household Finance Index.
Brexit: Article will be triggered on March 29
2. Wall bids end: Have an idea to build a "big and beautiful" wall, as President Trump has previously said, between the U.S. and Mexico? Proposals for a prototype of the 1,300-mile wall are due by Wednesday, the government said.
Customs and Border Protection began the process seeking "prototype wall structures" last month, setting a mid-April timeline for awarding contracts. Still, there are a lot of uncertainties blocking it, such as how much money Congress is willing to allocate toward it, legal issues with states and how Trump will get Mexico to pay for it.
The price tag is estimated between $10 billion and $25 billion, according to numerous estimates.
Homeland Security seeking border wall proposals
3. Samsung phone: The Samsung Galaxy S8 will be released into orbit on Wednesday morning. The new phone is expected to feature a sleek redesign.
Of course, it's hard to forget what a spectacular failure Samsung's Galaxy Note 7 was after battery fires prompted a worldwide recall. The S8 is the first phone released since the disaster, so Samsung hopes features like the Bixby personal assistant, faster hardware and shiny new colors attract defectors and iPhone connoisseurs.
Samsung's new AI assistant will take on Siri and Alexa
Samsung is making huge profits as Note 7 crisis fades
4. Coming this week:
Monday - Wall Street Green Summit begins
Tuesday - New, £1 coin enters circulation; Hillary Clinton delivers keynote at Professional BusinessWomen of California Conference; Carnival Corporation earnings
Wednesday - Samsung launches new phone; Article 50 triggered; Lululemon earnings
Thursday - H&M Q1 earnings
Friday - BlackBerry earnings; Q1 ends
The retailer of new and used video games has been on shaky ground for a while. Its stock has plummeted more than 31% over the past year.
 Rise of Amazon leaves even more retailers in intensive care
On Thursday, the company said its overall sales fell 13.6% last quarter compared to a year prior.
At the core of GameStop's issues: It's not selling enough video games.
CEO Paul Raines said in a statement Thursday that "the video game category was weak, particularly in the back half of 2016."
That's because the biggest names in gaming -- Playstation maker Sony (SNE) and Xbox maker Microsoft (MSFT, Tech30) -- haven't updated their consoles in a while, Raines said. That creates a lag in business for retailers like GameStop.
Bright spots for GameStop include its non-gaming related brands, like Spring Mobile, and its sales of pop culture collectibles, which are sold at GameStop stores. The company said it's focused on growing those areas as it attempts to turn business around.
 A look at Sears through the years
GameStop is just one name among a long list of brick-and-mortar retailers struggling to compete with e-commerce giants like Amazon. (AMZN, Tech30)
Over the past year, chains including JCPenney, Macy's (M) and Staples (SPLS) have announced store closures. And earlier this week, Sears (SHLD) -- which also owns Kmart -- said it has "substantial doubt" the company will survive.
Obamacare is not going anywhere, at least not this year. Insurers have signed contracts with the exchanges to provide coverage throughout 2017. This means the roughly 12.2 million people who have signed up for policies shouldn't see any major changes. Their premiums should remain the same, as should their subsidies as long as their income doesn't fluctuate.
A possible wrench in the system would be if Congress decides not to fund the law's cost-sharing subsidies, which help reduce deductibles and co-pays for low-income consumers. House Republicans hate these payments, which are made to insurance companies, and even successfully sued the Obama administration to try to stop them.
Now, of course, the GOP controls the White House, and lawmakers have yet to agree to fund the subsidies. If they don't, some insurers may take this as a breach of contract and try to drop out immediately.
 Trump making changes that could cost consumers
The federal government is still supporting Medicaid
The GOP health care bill would have ended enhanced funding for Medicaid expansion, which means millions of low-income adults would have lost their coverage in coming years. The legislation would have also overhauled and curtailed federal support for the entire program, which covers more than 70 million people.
Since the bill failed, Medicaid remains an open-ended entitlement, meaning anyone who qualifies can enroll. States that haven't expanded can still opt to do so -- a bill moving through the legislature in deep-red Kansas would do just that.
However, Medicaid recipients may see some changes in the near future. Health Secretary Tom Price has encouraged governors to apply for federal waivers to impose work requirements, premiums and other measures on those in the program.
 Trump open to making Medicaid recipients work or pay premiums
You still have to buy insurance or be subject to a penalty
The individual mandate -- which requires nearly all Americans to have coverage -- remains in effect. Those who are uninsured could be assessed a penalty, unless they qualify for an exemption.
Republicans in Congress sought to kill this provision, one of the most hated in the health reform law. The Trump administration is chipping away at it. The IRS has loosened its oversight slightly, citing President Trump's executive order to lift Obamacare's financial burdens where possible. Trump may try to weaken it further, but he would suffer the wrath of insurers, who say it's an important way to prod younger, healthier Americans to sign up for coverage.
 For Trump, no closing this deal
Employers still have to provide affordable coverage
Companies with 50 or more employees must continue offering affordable coverage to their employees or risk having to pay penalties.
The outlook for 2018 is uncertain
Insurers were waiting to see what came of the Republicans' efforts to repeal and replace Obamacare. Now that the House bill is on ice, carriers say they need some answers from the Trump administration and lawmakers to determine whether they'll participate on the exchanges next year.
Continued funding of the cost-sharing subsidies is at the top of their wish list, but insurers also want the administration to help insulate them from high-cost enrollees by tightening enrollment periods and revamping the risk-sharing programs.
Time is running out. Insurers have to start submitting their policies and premiums to state regulators in coming weeks.
Are you on Obamacare? Has it helped you or hurt you? Are you concerned it will collapse soon? Are you struggling to pay its premiums or deductibles? Email me at healthcarestories@turner.com. You could be featured in a story.
The difference is "a mystery," said Tim Clark, the president of Emirates Airline, who adds that its security practices have generally received high marks from other countries. The company's Dubai International base in the UAE is one of the busiest airports on the planet.
"It seems that the British government regards our secondary screening methodologies as best in class, particularly as they have audited our procedures and security training on an ongoing basis," he told CNNMoney by email. The Department of "Homeland Security and TSA also regard our procedures as excellent and we have coordinated and worked with them since we began flying to the U.S. in 2004."
A flyer, for example, can depart Houston (a popular Emirates destination for oil executives) for Dubai, laptop in hand. But on the return leg -- all 16 hours and 15 minutes of it -- that same laptop has to ride in the belly of a Boeing 777.
The same traveler, however, could instead fly to London with Emirates and switch to a U.S. or U.K. airline back home across the Atlantic and avoid these new electronics restrictions.
U.S. and British officials say they acted individually in the best interests of their citizens.
"Each country makes decisions based on a variety of criteria and considerations, from political to diplomatic to economic to security and others," said David Lapan, Acting Deputy Assistant Secretary for DHS on Friday.
"Our decision to implement additional security procedures at selected airports was based on our assessment of the threat environment and our mission to protect air travelers from the threat of terrorism," he added.
But some powerful voices in the Gulf believe that the U.S. put the UAE and Qatar on the U.S. list to protect U.S. airlines.
"There is no doubt that a significant reason behind the electronic ban is to stifle competition from Gulf airlines, and to encourage U.S. bound passengers to fly on American carriers," wrote Sultan Al Qassemi, a prominent Emirati commentator, in an article for the Middle East Institute this week.
DHS has denied that protectionism had anything to do with the ban.
Dubai Airports chief executive Paul Griffiths said the UAE has stepped up security checks at the request of the U.K. government, which stopped short of a full ban like the U.S.
Emirates is one of a trio of rapidly expanding Middle Eastern carriers known as the ME3. The other two are Etihad Airways in Abu Dhabi, the capital of the U.A.E., and Qatar Airways. Each airline is an arm of their respective government, supported with billions of dollars in funds and given every advantage in their home bases.
 Laptop ban may force business travelers to skip Middle East hubs
They also enjoy unfettered access to flying to the U.S., just as U.S. airlines do to Qatar and the U.A.E. through Open Skies treaties. The ME3 carriers have exploited their position at the crossroads of Europe, Africa and Asia to act as a single stop between almost any two major points on the planet.
Their aggressive moves include opening up two transatlantic routes from Dubai which stop through Milan and Athens to New York. That has upset the big U.S. carriers who say the subsidized carriers are exploiting agreements to steal passengers who would otherwise cross the Atlantic on their airlines.
Delta Air Lines (DAL), United Airlines (UAL) and American Airlines (AAL) have renewed a push for the State Department to review the Open Skies treaties to determine if the state support enjoyed by the ME3 creates an unfair advantage.
But have corporate jockeying and politics crossed over into the realm of security policy? The discrepancy between the U.S. and U.K. bans has experts demanding answers.
"Assuming there is dangerous new technology, a terrorist could just as easily inflict damage when flying to the US or the UK from any airport anywhere in the world -- including Europe or even within the US or UK -- not just those in the Middle East," wrote Greeley Koch, executive director of the Association of Corporate Travel Executives in a statement.
"Answers are needed now. Without further explanation," he said, "these new restrictions will only breed skepticism of the government's perception of business travel."
 Airlines poke fun at laptop ban on social media
One senior U.S. aviation official said the ban's targets were not chosen for political reasons and that the DHS and TSA officials implementing the new restrictions are career personnel with little awareness of, or regard for, the fierce competition between international airlines.
John Cohen a former counterterrorism coordinator for the Department of Homeland Security, said on NPR on Thursday that imposing new security restrictions on the ME3 for political reasons would be a "grotesque abuse of authority."
He pointed to a lack of communication and nagging distrust of information from the Trump Administration as contributing to the confusion.
However, one U.S. congressman suggested the discrepancy may lie with the U.K. It placed restrictions on six nations, four of which are on the U.S. list.
"We can't dictate what our foreign partners do," said Rep. John Katko of New York, who was briefed on the ban. "All we can do is share the facts with them."
U.K. Transport Minister Chris Grayling said Wednesday said it reserved the right differ with the U.S.
"The U.S. Administration will take decisions about how they should best protect their citizens. We do not always have to take exactly the same decisions on behalf of both our countries. We have done what we think is right for the United Kingdom."
-- Rene Marsh, David Wilkinson and John Defterios contributed to this report.
While Trump is trying to shift the responsibility to the Democrats, it's his administration that will largely have to decide whether 20 million people who gained coverage under the sweeping 2010 health reform law will remain insured.
Are you on Obamacare? Has it helped you or hurt you? Are you concerned it will collapse soon? Are you struggling to pay its high premiums or deductibles? Email me at healthcarestories@turner.com. You could be featured in a story.
 For Trump, no closing this deal
It's not at all clear that Obamacare is in a death spiral, but there's no question the program is troubled. Insurers have found themselves with sicker and costlier customers than they expected, forcing them to raise rates and exit certain markets.
But carriers say it's now largely in the hands of the Trump administration and Republican lawmakers as to whether they will participate next year. Over the past several months, insurers have urged officials to provide clarity on several key measures that they say will help shore up the exchanges.
 House Republicans pull health care bill
"If Republicans want to stabilize the market, they have the tools to do so," Dr. Mario Molina, chief executive of Molina Healthcare (MOH), which has just under 1 million exchange enrollees in nine states, told CNNMoney. "If they don't act, they can't say Obamacare exploded. They made the decisions that led to people losing their coverage. They can't shift the blame anymore."
Insurers must decide in coming weeks whether they'll participate on the exchanges next year. At least one, Humana (HUM), has already said it won't. Molina said he will decide in May.
Among the top priorities is having Congress fund the cost-sharing subsidies that reduce the deductibles for millions of low-income enrolleee. Lawmakers have delayed their decision at least until April.
 Insurers worry GOP bill will leave low-income Americans without coverage
Also, insurers want the Department of Health & Human Services to clamp down on special enrollment periods so that people can't sign up when they become sick. And carriers want the agency to continue the Obama administration's efforts to bolster the risk programs that insulate them from costly policyholders.
"There's still a lot that can be done for market stability," said Kristine Grow, spokeswoman for America's Health Insurance Plans, a main trade association for insurers.
Trump officials have already started taking steps to stabilize the market, which they have had to do to fulfill their pledge not to have millions of people lose coverage as they tried to move to the Republican plan.
HHS is already working to tighten enrollment periods and require enrollees to pay any back premiums they owe before signing up again. The agency is also giving insurers a little more latitude in how much their policies must cover in the individual market. This proposed rule, which should be finalized soon, addresses several industry concerns.
Also, Health Secretary Tom Price has made it clear he is open to giving states more flexibility in how they administer their exchanges and their Medicaid programs.
 Trump starts making changes to Obamacare that could cost consumers
Asked for a comment about the agency's next steps, an HHS spokeswoman pointed to a recently-created website titled "Providing Relief Right Now for Patients." It lists the measures HHS is taking to address Obamacare -- originally intended to be one of a three-prong effort to overturn the law.
"Within what the law allows, HHS is taking action to stabilize the individual and small group insurance markets (the markets most affected by the ACA) so that they work better for everyone," the site reads.
At the same time, some of the administration's moves -- and certainly the Republicans' rhetoric -- have damaged Obamacare. One of the first was pulling the Obamcare ads in the final days of open enrollment in January. That marketing effort is crucial to getting people sign up ahead of the deadline.
Enforcing the individual mandate, which remains the law of the land since the GOP repeal bill failed, is one of the keys to keeping younger, healthier consumers in the market. The Internal Revenue Service has loosened its oversight slightly, citing Trump's executive order to lift Obamacare's financial burdens on Americans where possible.
Whether to step back more on the mandate is up to Trump.
"It's a decision that can be traced directly to the White House," said Molina, whose company is one of the few to have prospered in the exchanges.
As stunning a defeat as this is for Trump, Ryan and the Republican Party, Ryan asserted that it wouldn't ruin their chance to do tax reform.
"Yes, it does make [tax reform] more difficult but not in any way impossible," Ryan said in a briefing with reporters Friday.
What's more, he noted, "every man and woman in this conference is motivated more than ever to step up our game."
 House Republicans pull health care bill
But not everyone is quite so sure that Republican tax reform efforts won't suffer as a result of their failure on Obamacare.
"The defeat of health care reconciliation threatens to derail the entire Trump economic plan. Period. The balkanization of the GOP will continue. And Trump becomes an anchor around some GOP incumbents' necks," said longtime Senate Budget senior staffer Steve Bell, now an economic policy advisor at the Bipartisan Policy Center.
In any case, when the GOP takes up tax reform in earnest, they may have to do so with more sobered expectations as to what they can accomplish, said Dean Zerbe, former senior counsel to the Senate Finance Committee chairman and currently national managing director at alliantgroup.
"It will all be more modest," Zerbe said -- noting for instance, Republicans may lower tax rates but they won't be able to make them as low as promised.
While the word "reform" might be used it may not be a full overhaul of the tax system, either, although Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin on Friday morning asserted that that's very much still the goal and the hope is still to get it done in 2017.
 6 reasons tax reform may not happen this year
But both lawmakers and Wall Street have been overly optimistic about what can be accomplished this year on the tax front.
They're underestimating how long it will take to get real buy-in from key players on something as complex as a tax code overhaul.
And they've disregarded the difficulty of getting agreement on a key question: Should the cost of the tax cuts in a reform package be paid for with tax increases elsewhere, and if so, where?
"The more you have to make up with revenue, the more enemies you'll make," Gray said.
At this point, Zerbe can see Republicans opting for a package of tax cuts and other changes that add a trillion dollars or two to deficits in the first decade.
Of course, Republicans will also rely on so-called dynamic scoring to help make any package of tax cuts look less costly. Dynamic scoring assumes tax cuts will generate some economic growth. That growth in turn will generate revenue and that can partly offset the loss of revenue from a tax cut.
Boom's two-seat XB-1 will fly at 2.2 times the speed of sound during its flight tests, which will begin 2018. The demonstrator will be far smaller than the 45-seat airliner that the company one day hopes to build. That's about half the size of the 100-seat Concorde.
Blake Scholl, Boom's founder, says that parts for the XB-1 are being fabricated now, and that assembly of the sleek experimental jet begins later this year.
Several new supersonic projects are underway across the aerospace industry, but those are focused on the private air travel. Boom is the only outfit building a commercial supersonic aircraft.
Boom got a public relations boost when Virgin Group founder Richard Branson revealed in 2016 that Virgin Atlantic Airways has an option to purchase Boom's first ten jets. Scholl declined to say if any money had changed hands with that agreement. He said Friday that he would have more customer announcements later this year.
 Boom: A plane faster than Concorde with fares a quarter of the price?
Denver-based Boom still faces enormous hurdles to making its supersonic airliner a reality. The project will require billions of dollars, a factory infrastructure, a manufacturing supply chain and regulatory approval.
Historically, commercial aerospace manufacturers have required significant state support to bring new products to market. New entrants from Japan, Russia and China that seek to compete with established manufacturers have all received billions from their governments to develop new aircraft. Boom, by contrast, is going it alone without partnering with the government or an established manufacturer.
Scholl and his team at Boom also have to convince airlines, which are historically resistant to big leaps in technology, that the project is commercially viable. Concorde struggled with high operating costs during its tenure with Air France and British Airways.
Separately, Rockwell Collins said this week that it has developed with NASA a way to visualize a sonic boom. The new technology is designed to let pilots to adjust their flight plans to reduce the noise heard on the ground. That's a key obstacle for the new generation of supersonic aircraft, which need to be able to fly over land. One of the Concorde key disadvantages was the fact that it was limited to flying over water.
The Republican-controlled Senate voted last Thursday to roll back rules that would have required internet service providers, such as Comcast or CenturyLink, to ask for permission before tracking and selling your information.
That includes everything from where you are to what you're looking at online. A provider could infer that you're sick, for example, because you looked at WebMD.
The FCC approved the rules in October, and they had yet to go into effect. If the House also votes to eliminate them, any provider will be able to track and sell your data without telling you.
The steps in Congress would remove an extra safeguard at a time when people are using more and more internet-connected devices and providers are investing more in targeted advertising.
You probably already know that companies like Facebook (FB, Tech30) and Google (GOOG) use your data to target their ads. There are a number of tools, including Privacy Badger and Disconnect, that prevent advertisers from tracking your activity. But they will not block your service provider from collecting your data.
Further, browsing in "incognito" or private mode does not prevent your internet provider from knowing which sites you visit. Private mode only prevents the browser you are using from storing your internet history. (Comcast will still know when you view adult content, even if Chrome forgets.)
 Senate votes to undo Internet privacy rules
The technology to get around the providers is complicated.
"There are pretty easy and free ways to stop tracking online from advertisers," says Jeremy Gillula, senior staff technologist at the Electronic Frontier Foundation. "The technical ways to stop your ISP from tracking you are limited and cumbersome."
So what can you do? Using a tool called a virtual private network, or VPN, will protect your online activity from anyone who might want to look at it, including internet providers.
But do your research before you pick a VPN. Sometimes they claim to cloak your traffic but their privacy policies allow them to track and sell your information to advertisers. That's how many free VPNs make money. (Privacy is easier for those who can afford it.)
Read the fine print: Does the company promise not to log your activity? Does it include information about selling your activity to advertisers?
Kenneth White, an internet security engineer and director of the Open Crypto Audit Project, says to avoid tools that use terms like "NSA-proof," "hacker-proof," "military-grade encryption" and "total anonymity" in their marketing.
If you know how to use more technical tools, he suggests a VPN called Algo. If your technical skills are more limited, he recommends Cloak.
"There is a long history of 'free' VPNs that prey on innocent consumers' concerns about security and cynically make them less safe," White says. In 2015, a VPN called Hola was found to be turning customers' computers into a botnet, or a group of hijacked devices that can be used for hacking.
 Your data is not safe. Here's how to lock it down
Another option Gillula suggests is privacy software called Tor. It makes your online activity anonymous, meaning it can be collected, but not associated with you.
Nothing is unhackable, but the code for Tor is open and transparent, meaning that many people have analyzed it, and you can be sure it does what it promises to.
The health care bill serves as a barometer to investors for the Republicans' ability to pass meaningful reforms while controlling the White House and both chambers of Congress.
The market's reaction Friday "inclines us to believe that [investors] feel future Trump agendas like tax reform and fiscal stimulus are less likely to occur if the repeal and replace of the Affordable Care Act does not pass," says Charles Ripley, investment strategist for Allianz Investment Management.
 Revised Republican health care bill is more costly
The Congressional Budget Office estimates that the GOP's new health care bill would take away health coverage for 24 million Americans. A revised bill would reduce the U.S. deficit by only $150 billion over 10 years. The original bill aimed to reduce the deficit by $337 billion.
U.S. stock markets have rallied to all-time highs since President Trump was elected in November on hopes that he and the Republican-controlled Congress could make meaningful reforms. Some experts say that optimism could be fading.
"Hope has been the dominant emotion since the election," says Brad McMillan, chief investment officer at Commonwealth Financial Network. "Recent market weakness may reflect an ebbing of hope on that front."
--Tami Luhby contributed reporting to this article
At the same time, the Dow has backed away from all-time highs, losing 250 points this week. The index is on track for its worst weekly performance since the week before Trump's victory.
Analysts point the finger at Republicans' struggles to pass a bill repeal and replace Obamacare. Investors fear that a failure on health care could delay or even derail Trump's promise of "massive" tax cuts -- a pledge that has underpinned the rally on Wall Street.
"The Trump trade was always going to have a 'where's the beef' moment," Bank of America Merrill Lynch strategists wrote in a report to clients.
BofA said failure to pass the health care bill is "unlikely to cause a 'TARP moment,'" referring to the 9% crash in the S&P 500 after Congress initially rejected the Wall Street bailout package in September 2008.
 Wall Street is losing faith in the Trump agenda
Still, BofA said health care failure could cause a "credibility hit" that "temporarily" pushes stocks and Treasury yields lower.
EPFR said the exodus from U.S. stocks is a sign that investors have taken a "turn towards the defensive" as they question whether the Trump administration "has the necessary focus and political skills to get its economic agenda through Congress."
For instance, investors yanked $1.1 billion from small-cap stocks last week, the most in six months, according to EPFR. Small-cap stocks are typically based in the United States, and investors had hoped Trump's America First agenda and promise of 4% economic growth would juice profits. But the Russell 2000, which measures small-cap stocks, has started to struggle and lost 2% of its value this week.
Likewise, industrial stocks, a group expected to benefit from Trump's focus on trade, suffered their biggest outflows since mid-January.
Banks were another big winner after the election amid hopes of higher interest rates, which allow banks to make more money, and less regulation. But investors withdrew $600 million from financial stocks in the last week.
 Enough about Trump! Markets tired of politics
So where are investors putting their money instead?
Emerging markets and bonds benefited from the U.S. uncertainty, with both enjoying significant inflows in the past week.
Gold, which tends to do well during times of investor fear, is also going back into style. Investors poured $1.1 billion into gold funds in the last week.
Looking ahead, the key for Wall Street will be whether it looks like Trump and Republican leaders can quickly pivot from health care to tax reform.
Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin on Friday promised that Trump's new tax reform plan is coming "very soon." He expressed confidence that tax reform will happen this year, if not by August as he originally predicted then definitely by the fall.
But tax reform won't be an easy deal, either.
The Trump rally is "dependent upon the delivery of tax reform," David Kotok, chairman and chief investment officer of Cumberland Advisors, wrote in a note to clients.
"The longer that process takes and the more questionable the outcome, the higher the risk to stock prices," Kotok wrote.
Charter said it would invest $25 billion in broadband infrastructure and technology in the next four years. The company also committed to hiring 20,000 American workers during that period, and said it would bring back all overseas call centers and build a new call center in Texas.
The 20,000 jobs, at least, have been in the works for more than a year.
CEO Tom Rutledge said in 2015 that Charter would need to bring on 20,000 additional workers if the company's merger with Time Warner Cable and acquisition of Bright House Networks went through. A Charter spokesman reiterated the claim in April 2016. (Time Warner Cable is not affiliated with Time Warner, the owner of CNN.)
The FCC approved the deal last May, and Charter CEO Tom Rutledge said in January that the company had plans to hire 20,000 new employees within three years.
 A running fact check of Trump and jobs
Charter said Friday's announcement marked a firm commitment to hire, despite its earlier announcements.
"We have spoken about our plans to hire 20k before but it wasn't a commitment," Charter spokesman Justin Venech told CNNMoney in an email. "Today we committed to a time frame of four years for those hires."
The $25 billion investment, Venech said, has never been announced.
SeaWorld could use some good news. Its stock price has fallen by a third since CNN released the documentary "Blackfish" in 2013. The film focuses on Tilikum, an orca that killed three people, including its SeaWorld trainer, and alleges that its confinement to a small, dark tank contributed to its violent behavior.
The movie was a serious PR hit to SeaWorld, which relied heavily on orca shows before it started to phase them out last year. Visitors to its Florida parks declined, and the company was relentlessly criticized by animal rights activists. SeaWorld cut hundreds of jobs.
 SeaWorld to open first park without killer whales
The company has tried to preserve its animal-friendly image by touting its conservation and animal rescue efforts.
SeaWorld has 67,000 animals. Most are fish, but the company also has manatees, tigers and rhinoceroses. SeaWorld owns five amusement parks in Florida, including Busch Gardens in Tampa, and parks in California, Virginia and Texas.
 Ringling Bros. closing after shutting down elephant acts
SeaWorld announced last year that it was opening its first park outside the United States, in Abu Dhabi, and that that park would not have killer whales.
Zhonghong Group invests in real estate and tourism. SeaWorld did not immediately respond to questions from CNNMoney about how Zhonghong might change the company in the United States or whether it would expand to China.
Many insurers have struggled on the exchanges because enrollees have been sicker and costlier than expected.
This prompted many major carriers -- and several smaller ones -- to pull back their participation on the state exchanges in 2017. Many of those that remained hiked premiums to ensure they could cover their policyholders' medical bills.
The government is taking steps to shore up the market so millions don't lose coverage as GOP lawmakers look to overhaul the nation's health care system.
Still, despite Republican claims that the market is collapsing, the Congressional Budget Office has said the individual market would "probably be stable" if the Republican bill is enacted or not.
And S&P said in late December that huge price hikes for 2017 were a "one-time pricing correction."
The nation's largest public insurers, however, have concerns.
Humana (HUM) said last month it would exit all of the ACA exchanges in 2018, regardless of what happens in Congress.
The CEO of Aetna (AET) said at a Wall Street Journal forum last month that Obamacare was in a "death spiral." Aetna and Humana had planned to merge but the two pulled the plug earlier this year after a federal judge blocked it due to antitrust concerns.
Cigna (CI) said in November -- just days before the election -- that it was not planning to expand its ACA business this year.
Anthem (ANTM), which had hoped to merge with Cigna before that deal was also shot down in court, said last month it too was unsure of whether it would participate in the ACA exchanges in 2018.
Its CEO, Joseph Swedish, recently wrote a letter to two Republican House committee leaders in which he expressed support for parts of the American Health Care Act, the GOP bill that some have dubbed Trumpcare.
 What's inside the Republican health care bill?
And UnitedHealth (UNH) said last April, back when Hillary Clinton was still leading Donald Trump in many presidential polls, that it was planning to get out of most ACA insurance exchanges by this year. It has lost more than $1 billion on the exchanges.
 Humana has already pulled out of Obamacare
Two smaller insurers, Molina (MOH) and Centene (CNC), stand to lose (or gain) the most from a future with Obamacare.
Those two companies have actually done well under the ACA, thanks to their focus on Medicaid -- the government program that expanded under the ACA.
Molina, however, recently warned that it wanted to see major changes to Obamacare's risk programs. Because of its success on the market, it has had to pay its rivals, That has hurt its own financial performance.
--CNNMoney's Tami Luhby contributed to this report.
But since revenue coming into the government doesn't keep pace with the spending commitments that lawmakers have made over the years, Treasury must borrow to make up the difference to keep paying all the country's legal obligations in full and on time.
Those obligations are vast, and include payments to federal contractors, interest to bondholders and benefit and refund checks to individuals.
So the debt limit essentially caps Treasury's ability to keep paying everything the United States owes.
And that's why lawmakers need to raise it periodically -- or at least temporarily suspend it as they've done recently.
They're going to have to increase it or suspend it again this year. If it were up to Mnuchin, they'd make quick work of it.
"I'm hopeful this is something Congress addresses before the [summer] break," he said.
 Treasury Secretary Mnuchin warns Congress on debt ceiling
As it is, debt levels are nearing the limit and Treasury has already begun using special accounting measures to keep outstanding debt just below the limit.
But those measures are only estimated to last until fall, at which point Treasury will face the prospect of defaulting on some of the country's obligations if Congress hasn't acted.
That could damage markets and the economy to varying degrees, depending on who gets stiffed and for how long.
Mnuchin, however, says he's not worried it will come to that, even though the most conservative faction of the Republican Party -- including Trump's budget director -- has made raising the debt limit a difficult exercise in recent years.
"Everybody understands we need to raise the debt limit ... and that the full faith and credit of the United States is the most important thing," Mnuchin said.
TransCanada (TRP) CEO Russell Girling, standing next to Trump, said Keystone XL will "create thousands of jobs."
The construction of the pipeline would indeed create thousands of jobs. But they will be temporary.
Keystone pipeline would create about 3,900 construction jobs if it was built in one year, according to a State Department report. That number would drop to 1,950 jobs if the Alberta-to-Nebraska pipeline takes two years to build.
The State Department also estimates that about 16,100 additional jobs will be created during the construction via firms awarded contracts for materials and services.
However, once Keystone is completed, only 35 permanent employees would be needed to operate the pipeline along with 15 temporary contractors.
So, the Keystone XL isn't expected to be a boom for the job market by any stretch.
In addition, those temporary and limited permanent jobs could come at a significant environmental cost. The Canadian oil that would flow through the pipeline is considered among the dirtiest types of crude.
A 2015 study funded by the Department of Energy found that the oil sands from Canada emit 18% more greenhouse gases when processed into gasoline than that processed from traditional U.S. crude. And diesel fuel derived from oil sands emits 21% more of these harmful gases.
That's why environmentalists remain fiercely opposed to Keystone.
"The dirty and dangerous Keystone XL pipeline is one of the worst deals imaginable for the American people, so of course Donald Trump supports it," Michael Brune, executive director of the Sierra Club, said in a statement.
 Despite promises, Keystone won't have to use American steel
In fact, despite Friday's green light from the State Department environmentalists have thrown more obstacles in front of the pipeline.
Keystone still needs approval from state authorities in Nebraska, where some landowners oppose the project and have sued TransCanada.
Asked by Trump when Keystone will start, TransCanada's Girling said, "We've got some work to do in Nebraska."
Trump responded: "Nebraska? I'll call Nebraska. Nebraska has a great governor."
Still, the White House did acknowledge some environmental concerns. Trump said he believes it's "a lot safer to have pipelines than use other forms of transportation."
Limited pipelines in the Canadian oil sands have forced much of that crude to travel by rail. But safety concerns about carrying crude by train have been on the rise following the deaths of 47 people after a train transporting oil derailed in 2013 near Lac Megantic, Quebec.
Trump did not repeat an earlier promise that the steel to make the Keystone XL pipeline would be American. The White House has already backed away from that pledge, saying the new "buy American" rules for pipelines won't apply to Keystone.
--CNN's Chris Isidore and Rene Marsh contributed to this report.
The Treasury Secretary indicated that the new Trump tax plan won't adopt the House Republicans' controversial proposal for a border adjustment tax, at least not wholesale.
"There are certain aspects that are attractive and certain aspects that are concerning," he said.
When it comes to taxing the rich, Mnuchin seemed to soften somewhat his dramatic promise made before his confirmation -- that there would be "no absolute tax cut for the upper class" because any reduction they might get from lower tax rates would be offset by giving them fewer tax breaks.
Instead, he told Allen, "Our primary focus is a tax cut on middle income and not the top 1%. We're working toward that as a goal. Don't hold me to that to the penny. But that's the direction we're going in."
 6 reasons tax reform may not happen this year
Mnuchin's comments were made as House Republican leadership and the Trump Administration scrambled to scrape together enough votes for a highly controversial bill that partially repeals and replaces Obamacare.
He indicated that politically he thinks tax reform would be a much easier lift because Republicans share common goals -- to simplify the code, provide tax cuts and make U.S. businesses more competitive.
That's a view, however, that few with any experience crafting tax reform share. Having generally agreed upon goals is certainly critical. But passing tax reform involves agreeing on countless details and selling the plan to all constituents, even those who might be on the losing end of key changes.
Voya Investment Management market strategists Douglas Coté and Karyn Cavanaugh wrote in a report Thursday that people are "generally paying just a little too much attention to the noise from Washington."
Even if Trump and the Republicans in Congress are not able to get a bill through that repeals and replaces President Obama's Affordable Care Act, that's not the end of the world.
"Investors need to focus on the strong economic trends that affect company earnings instead. The ACA vote is not the make or break moment for the new administration," Coté and Cavanaugh wrote.
Presidents often get too much credit -- or blame -- for how the market and economy are doing. This is not to say that a president (and Congress) have no impact.
 Wall Street is losing faith in the Trump agenda
But the long-term movement of stock prices tend to be governed more by interest rates and earnings.
"This rally is now more about the economy stabilizing," said Fred Goodwin, macro strategist with State Street Corporation.
And that's a continuation of what was already happening when many on Wall Street thought Hillary Clinton, and not Trump, would be president.
It's simply not logical to say the economy and markets are better now because of Trump when they were already doing well in the last stages of Obama's second term -- and when expectations were for Trump to lose.
Goodwin notes that Wall Street has breathed a collective sigh of relief about Trump once it became clear how pro-business his agenda would be. But Goodwin thinks comparisons to Reaganomics are "ridiculous."
He also said that it's important to remember that this rally is now getting a little long in the tooth. The bull market turned eight years old earlier this month.
So it may be unreasonable to expect stocks can keep climbing further -- and that would have been the case if Clinton had won too.
 Market may stall if Trump can't live up to the hype
Then again, there's a saying on Wall Street that bull markets don't die of old age.
As long as earnings remain solid and the Federal Reserve doesn't go overboard with rate hikes -- which could slow the economy -- then stocks could keep rallying. The pace of the rally may slow but the direction could still be up.
"There is no indication of economic weakness around the corner," said Tom Anderson, chief investment officer at Boston Private.
It's also important that the market no longer is about just what happens in America.
Anderson noted that the most recent market slumps in mid-2015 and early 2016 were triggered by fears about a slowdown in China. Those fears have largely passed -- and had little (if anything) to do with then President Obama, Congress, or even the Fed.
Still, Anderson gets why the markets (and media) are still fixated on the nation's capital. The news never seems to stop. And it's increasingly wacky. It's sort of like rubbernecking on a highway when there's a car crash.
"People are paying too much attention to Washington, but it's hard not to since there is so much going on and the dynamics are so atypical. It's hard to look away," Anderson said.
The original bill, called the American Health Care Act, had a lot of critics -- ranging from conservative lawmakers to moderate ones to insurers to the AARP.
Conservatives complained that the bill does not fully repeal Obamacare and that many provisions are too similar to the health reform law. Insurers worried that Republicans would cut federal support for Medicaid and tax credits, leaving many of their customers without coverage.
And the AARP feared that Americans in their 50s and early 60s would see their premiums skyrocket and federal assistance reduced, though lawmakers are now promising to provide this group extra assistance.
Proponents of the bill said it would save the individual health market from collapse. The legislation would create a patient-centered health care system that provides Americans more choice, greater control and lower costs, they argued.
But opponents said it could reverse the gains in coverage that have been made since the Affordable Care Act was enacted in 2010. The Congressional Budget Office found that 24 million fewer people would be insured by 2026 under the GOP bill. The CBO estimates do not include the most recent amendment to the bill, however.
What the bill calls for
Repeal the Obamacare subsidies. The GOP's plan would eliminate the Obamacare subsidies, which are refundable tax credits based on a person's income and cost of coverage in their area. More than eight in 10 enrollees on the Obamacare exchanges receive this assistance, but individuals making more than $47,500 and families of four earning more than $97,200 do not qualify. This provision would take effect in 2020.
Provide refundable tax credits based on age and income instead. The Republicans want to issue refundable tax credits to help people afford coverage on the individual market, but these credits will be based mainly on a person's age.
The credits will range from $2,000 for 20-somethings to $4,000 for those in their early 60s. The credits will also have an income cap. Those making more than $75,000 would see their tax credits start to phase out, and an enrollee making more than $215,000 would no longer be eligible. Families with incomes above $150,000 would see their credits dwindle, while those earning more than $290,000 would no longer qualify. This provision would take effect in 2020.
Push provision for bigger tax credits for older Americans to Senate. The House is setting aside roughly $85 billion in funding to provide additional tax credits to help older people buy policies on the individual market. But representatives are letting the Senate handle the crafting of the legislation.
Many older consumers would face huge premium hikes under the GOP bill because its tax credits are not as generous as Obamacare's subsidies for lower-income enrollees in their 50s and early 60s.
Repeal the individual and employer mandates. The GOP's bill would get rid of the Obamacare requirement that people must have health coverage or face a tax penalty. It would also eliminate the requirement that employers with at least 50 employees provide health insurance to their workers.
Under Obamacare, these companies were required to provide affordable insurance to staffers who work more than 30 hours a week. They would face a penalty if they did not meet this criteria and their employee sought subsidies on the exchanges. These provisions take effect retroactively to 2016.
 CBO report: 24 million fewer insured by 2026 under GOP health care bill
Put in place a continuous coverage requirement instead. The original Republican plan seeks to allow insurers to impose a 30% surcharge on the premiums of those who let their coverage lapse for at least 63 days. The plan would enable insurers to levy this surcharge for one year, but it would only apply to policies bought in the individual or small group markets.
Under the latest amendment, states that seek waivers could replace this provision with one that allows insurers to charge consumers who've had a gap in coverage based on their health status.
Allow states to obtain waivers to let insurers charge consumers more if they have pre-existing conditions. States could get waivers that would allow carriers to set premiums based on enrollees' medical backgrounds under several circumstances. Those enrollees would have to have let their coverage lapse, and the state would have to set up a risk program -- such as a high-risk pool -- that, in some cases, could provide help to those being charged higher premiums.
Allow states to seek waivers of the federal requirement that insurers cover 10 essential health benefits. States could seek waivers that would allow insurers to sell plans that don't include all the services mandated by the Affordable Care Act.
Under Obamacare, carriers must provide outpatient care, emergency services, hospitalization, maternity, mental health and substance abuse, prescription drugs, rehabilitation services, lab work, preventative care and pediatric services.
This could lower premiums somewhat and give consumers a wider choice of plans. But it would also make it harder for people to buy comprehensive coverage and weaken the protections for those with pre-existing conditions.
Create the patient and state stability fund. Lawmakers initially set aside $100 billion through 2026 for states to lower consumers' and insurers' costs in a number of ways. Among them: offering financial assistance to high-risk patients, reducing the cost of providing coverage in the individual market, promoting access to preventative services as well as dental, vision, maternity, mental health and substance abuse services, and helping people reduce their out-of-pocket costs.
 High-risk pools won't match Obamacare's protections for pre-existing conditions
The GOP added $15 billion to the fund for 2020 for states to cover maternity, mental health and substance abuse services, and then another $15 billion to create so-called invisible risk pools to help insurers handle high-cost policyholders.
At the last minute, lawmakers added another $8 billion over five years to support high-risk pools in states that seek waivers to opt out of two key Obamacare insurance provisions.
Repeal cost-sharing subsidies to lower deductibles and co-pays. The bill would kill the additional help that individuals earning less than roughly $30,000 a year receive to cover their out-of-pocket costs. More than half of the enrollees on the Obamacare exchanges receive these subsidies. This provision would take effect in 2020.
 Insurers worry low-income Americans won't have coverage
Delay the Cadillac tax. The Republican plan keeps but delays the controversial Cadillac tax, which calls for imposing a 40% excise tax on generous employer health insurance plans. Originally scheduled to go into effect in 2018, the law would have taxed employers on any premiums that exceed $10,200 for individual policies and $27,500 for family plans. After intense lobbying by companies and unions, lawmakers pushed back the start date to 2020. The Republican plan delays it until 2026.
Loosen the age-band so insurers can charge older folks more. Under Obamacare, insurers could only charge older enrollees three times more than younger policy holders. The GOP bill would widen that band to five-to-one, which would hike premiums for those in their 50s and early 60s, but reduce them for younger folks.
States would also be allowed to seek waivers to allow insurers to charge older consumers even more than five times younger ones.
Revamp Medicaid funding. The GOP bill would send the states a fixed amount of money per Medicaid enrollee, known as a per-capita cap.
States could also opt to receive federal Medicaid funding as a block grant for the adults and children in their program. Under a block grant, states would get a fixed amount of federal funding each year, regardless of how many participants are in the program.
States, however, cannot opt to receive block grant funding for elderly and disabled participants. Their federal support for those groups would still be based on enrollment.
Either option would limit federal responsibility, shifting that burden to the states. However, since states don't have the money to make up the difference, they would likely either reduce eligibility, curtail benefits or cut provider payments. The block grant would be more restrictive since the funding level would not adjust for increases in enrollment, which often happens in bad economic times.
End enhanced federal funding for Medicaid expansion. It would also end the enhanced match rate for Medicaid expansion for new enrollees starting in 2020. Those already in the program could stay as long as they remain continuously insured. States that have not already expanded would not be allowed to do so, starting immediately.
Allow states to institute work requirement for Medicaid. States would now have the option of requiring able-bodied Medicaid recipients to work, participate in job training programs or do community service. Pregnant women, children under the age of 19, single parents of children under age six and single parents of children with disabilities are exempt.
 Upstate New York gets $2.3 billion gift in Republican health care bill
Give most New York counties relief from Medicaid payments. Lawmakers added a provision that would ban the federal government from reimbursing New York State for Medicaid funds raised by counties outside of New York City. The upstate counties and Long Island send $2.3 billion to the state to help pay for Medicaid. The amendment would give the state the incentive to stop passing down Medicaid costs to the counties, though state officials say it would mean fewer people would be covered and benefits would have to be curtailed.
 Governors divided over Medicaid's future
Restore federal support for hospitals who cover many uninsured patients. The legislation would restore Medicaid Disproportionate Share Hospital payments in 2018 for states that didn't expand Medicaid and in 2020 for states that did. Under Obamacare, these funds were set to disappear by 2020 since the original law called for all states to expand Medicaid.
Create more generous Health Savings Accounts. Seeking to get more people to save money for health care expenses, the Republican bill includes several provisions aimed at making Health Savings Accounts more attractive. It raises the annual contribution limits to equal the maximum sum of the deductible and out-of-pocket expenses one would pay in a high-deductible insurance plan. So the limit would be at least $6,550 for an individual and $13,100 for a family in 2018.
The bill would also end the Obamacare prohibition on paying for over-the-counter medications with funds from tax-advantaged accounts, such as HSAs and flexible spending accounts. And it reduces the penalty from 20% to 10% if funds from an HSA are used for non-medical purposes. These provisions begin in 2018.
Ban excess tax credits from going into Health Savings Accounts. Enrollees whose tax credits exceed the cost of their premiums would not be able to put the additional funds in Health Savings Accounts. Some conservatives are concerned these funds could be used to pay for abortions.
 Companies offering HSAs could bank on big profits under GOP plan
Lift contribution caps on flexible spending accounts. Obamacare put a cap on annual contributions to flexible spending accounts based on cost of living figures. For 2017, that cap was $2,600. The GOP bill would do away with that limit as of December 31, 2017.
Offer two tax cuts for the wealthy. The bill would eliminate two taxes that Obamacare imposed on the well-to-do to help pay for the law: The 3.8% tax on investment income and the 0.9% Medicare payroll tax on incomes over $200,000 for individuals and $250,000 for married couples who file jointly. The investment income tax would disappear in 2017, but the Medicare payroll tax would remain until 2023.
 Here's how much millionaires would save under GOP Obamacare repeal bill
Repeal the taxes on health insurers, prescription drug makers and medical devices. The bill seeks to lift the annual tax Obamacare imposed on drug makers and health insurers and It would also get rid of the 2.3% excise tax on the sale of certain medical devices that was put in place. The taxes would disappear in 2017.
Say goodbye to the tanning tax. The bill would eliminate a 10% tax on indoor tanning services that was introduced as part of Obamacare. It would take effect in 2017.
 Republican health care plan would repeal 'tanning tax'
Repeal the tax break for health insurance executives' pay. The legislation would roll back the Obamacare provision that placed a $500,000 limit on deductions for each executive's compensation. Top insurers pay their leaders millions in compensation every year so this provision could mean a nice tax savings for the companies. The provision would begin in 2017.
 Health care plan has tax break for insurance execs
Reduce the income threshold for deducting medical expenses. Under the GOP bill, taxpayers would be able to deduct medical expenses that exceed 5.8% of their adjusted gross income. Obamacare had raised the threshold to 10%. This would begin in 2017.
Defund Planned Parenthood. In keeping with long-standing Republican beliefs, the legislation prohibits federal funding for Planned Parenthood. But the restriction is only for a year.
Eliminate support for CDC Prevention and Public Health Fund. The bill would eliminate nearly $1 billion in funding for this program, which Republicans call a slush fund. The Centers for Disease Control says the money supports heart disease and stroke prevention, immunization, lead poisoning prevention and diabetes prevention, mostly through grants to states and local programs.
 Advocates call foul on CDC cuts in repeal bill
Increase funding for community health centers. The bill would provide an additional $422 million this year for community-based outpatient facilities that provide health services -- such as medical, dental and mental health -- to lower-income populations.
 These low-income kids could lose access to dental care
Allow insurers to sell plans that cover less of the costs. Obamacare created four tiers of coverage, each with a requirement to cover a certain share of policyholders' costs, on average. The bill would eliminate this rule. Presumably, insurers would be able to offer plans with higher deductibles and co-pays. However, since the legislation does not lift the cap on out-of-pocket expenses, insurers could not require consumers to pay more than that for covered services. The deductibles for many bronze-tier plans are already pegged to that cap.
What the bill doesn't change
Requiring insurers to offer coverage to those with pre-existing conditions. Insurers would still be required to offer policies to those with pre-existing conditions, but they could charge them more if consumers let their coverage lapse.
Allowing kids under age 26 to remain on their parents policies. The Republicans want to keep this Obamacare provision, which has helped insure young adults. By one estimate, seven million people get coverage as a result.
 Popular coverage for children under 26 may be health law's Achilles heel
Keeping annual and lifetime limits. Prior to Obamacare, many insurers in the individual market had caps on how much they'd cover each year or over an enrollee's lifetime. Some would not pay anything after an enrollee's care costs more than $500,000 or $1 million. Obamacare banned those limits for essential health benefits. However, insurers could cap payments on treatments not covered by the policy.
Retaining out-of-pocket maximums. Under Obamacare, consumers don't have to pay anything after they hit the out-of-pocket maximum for in-network providers and for essential health benefits. For 2017, the max is $7,150 for an individual and $14,300 for a family. This limit doesn't apply if one goes to an out-of-network doctor or hospital or receives a treatment not covered by the policy.
Juncker's opening offer comes just days before the official start of exit negotiations, a process that will be triggered by Prime Minister Theresa May on Wednesday.
The size of the so-called Brexit bill is expected be a key sticking point in talks.
EU member states pay into the communal budget, which finances infrastructure projects, social programs, scientific research and pensions for EU bureaucrats. The bloc's budget is negotiated to cover a period of years, with the current agreement extending to 2020.
 UK prices surge. Inflation hits highest level in 3 years
Britain pays roughly £10 billion a year ($12.5 billion) a year more into the budget than it receives in benefits -- a fact often cited by supporters of Brexit.
Juncker said Friday that Britain must honor its budgetary commitment.
"The British government and parliament took on certain commitments as EU members and they must be honored," he said. "This isn't a punishment or sanctions against the U.K."
 Scotland seeks second independence vote

Some British politicians, meanwhile, dismiss the idea of paying a £50 billion exit bill. The fight could end up in court.
May said in January that she wants to negotiate a clean break with the EU and a new free trade deal at the same time. She's also made clear that she views no deal as being better than a "bad deal."
Big free trade deals, however, can take a decade to agree. EU officials say they won't even discuss a future trading relationship with Britain until other issues are settled.
German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble told German public radio on Friday that Europe "will try to keep the disadvantages for the U.K. as small as possible."
Still, it's not inconceivable that Britain could crash out of the EU without any deal -- an outcome that would be undesirable for both parties.
The lead EU negotiator, Michel Barnier, warned this week of severe air traffic disruptions, nuclear fuel shortages and major delays in moving goods across the English Channel if talks fail.
The women say they want to be paid $68,000 a year, which is far more than they currently get from USA Hockey.
But the players say their case is about more than money. They want better job benefits for IIHF games -- equal to those given to their male counterparts.
 Pay fight between USA Hockey and women's players intensifies
The women want to be able to bring guests to competitions, fly in business class and get disability insurance.
USA Hockey said in a statement on Friday that those things cost too much.
"The players' demands would result in total player compensation in an Olympic year of approximately $210,000 per player if the team attains a silver medal and $237,000 for a gold medal," the statement said.
That total includes "travel for a guest to every event and exhibition game."
USA Hockey said offering the women players "business class airfare on flights of more than three hours" would contribute to expenses of "more than $1.3 million."
USA Hockey declined repeated requests for comment for this article.
But USA Hockey player handbooks for the 2013 and 2014 IIHF competitions, obtained by CNNMoney, detail some of the perks the men's team received.
 USA Hockey will compete in women's world games -- with or without protesting players
Based on the player handbooks, the men were allowed to bring along a guest while competing in the world championship games. USA Hockey paid for their guests' transportation costs, and the guests were permitted to stay in the player's hotel room.
The guests were allowed to stay until the end of the championships and also received breakfast, game tickets and an apparel package.
Not only were the women not permitted a guest, they were forced to share a room with a teammate.
The men traveled to the IIHF games in business class while the women traveled in coach. On the return trip, the men could choose to travel with their guests in economy.
Another key difference?
USA Hockey paid for the disability insurance of players on the men's team but not for players on the women's team, according to the handbooks.
The discrepancies between the benefits that the men and women got were confirmed by current members of the women's national team who played in 2013, as well as an industry agent, Brant Feldman.
 Andy Murray: Equal pay at tennis majors something to be proud of
The protest by the women's team comes after months of failed negotiations between the two sides.
Last week, USA Hockey gave the women a deadline to commit to playing in the IIHF games. If they didn't, USA Hockey said it would field a team to compete in the world games -- with or without the current members.
But on Monday, players from the women's team met with USA Hockey to try to come to terms and avoid sitting out the games. One of the women told CNNMoney that she and her teammates are hopeful they'll reach a resolution with USA Hockey and report to camp on time.
In addition to a salary and the other benefits, the women want child care, maternity leave and the ability to compete in more games throughout the year.
In the past, USA Hockey has said that it's a governing body and not an employer, and so it has no plans to classify the women as full-time employees.
 This could close the gender pay gap in 27 years
The women's hockey fight for fair pay is just the latest in a series of public battles for gender parity in sports.
Players on the U.S. Women's National Soccer team have also been vocal about the fact that they're paid less than the men and get less money for daily expenses while traveling. In 2016, they filed a complaint with the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission and are still awaiting a decision.
One sport where women have made progress in pay and treatment is tennis. It didn't come without a fight, but now major tournaments offer the same purse for men and women.
Trump this week cut a deal with conservative lawmakers to eliminate Obamacare's requirement that insurers cover "essential health benefits." It would instead leave it up to states to decide what insurers must cover. The House is set to vote Friday.
The Obamacare measure says insurers must cover 10 "essential health benefits" in all policies. These include preventative care and chronic disease management, prescription drugs, hospitalization, lab work and emergency services, as well as maternity benefits, mental health and substance abuse.
While this provision has boosted premiums, it has also made coverage more extensive. Insurers can no longer sell skimpy plans that were cheap, but didn't offer many benefits -- often leaving consumers with big bills if they needed care.
But eliminating the measure could greatly weaken the law's protection of those with pre-existing conditions, health policy experts say.
Insurers would still have to cover this group and charge them the same rate as healthy consumers. Without the requirement to offer comprehensive policies, insurers could opt to exclude some of the priciest services that sick Americans need.
So carriers wouldn't be able to reject cancer patients, but they would no longer have to cover their scans and chemotherapy, for example.
"No insurer is going to want to risk offering comprehensive benefits if they don't have to," said Larry Levitt, senior vice president at the Kaiser Family Foundation. "It would be almost impossible to set premiums for these plans in a stable way."
With no requirements, benefits could even be skimpier than pre-ACA. That's because insurers can no longer turn away people who are sick.
Jettisoning the essential health benefits could make it tough for sicker Americans in other ways.
Obamacare provides consumers with several financial protections. Insurers could no longer set annual or lifetime limits on paying for services covered under the provision. Also, the health reform law capped how much policyholders have to spend out of pocket each year for covered services -- the maximum is $7,150 for a single person, $14,300 for a family.
"That means insurers could again effectively cap the amount they would pay for a consumer with a high-cost or long-term health need such as cancer treatment," wrote Sarah Lueck, senior policy analyst with the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a left-leaning group.
There appeared to be only two options: Pay for a bag that costs more than a vacation, or buy another cheap suitcase that would likely break again, she said.
So Korey and Rubio launched Away in February 2016 to provide an alternative. The founders say the luggage startup recorded sales of $12 million in its first year.

The founders put Away's early success down to its team of 41 tech-savvy millennials and their love of photo sharing app Instagram.
"There's a lot of people on our team who were coming of age when Instagram came out, so we've definitely learned from them that brand discovery and shopping through Instagram is an important part of how they find things," said Korey.
What makes the perfect suitcase?
After spending months interviewing hundreds of travelers, Korey says the team were able to create luggage that helps take the hassle out of any journey.
Away suitcases have impenetrable and "unbreakable" shells, says Korey, USB ports that can charge devices, interior compression systems that save space, and wheels designed to provide the smoothest, 360-degree roll.
 Airline electronics ban: What you need to know
Prices start at $225 for its carry on model, which includes a battery that can charge an iPhone five times.
Travelers seem to like the formula. Away sold over 50,000 suitcases in its first year of business.

But Korey and Rubio, who met when they worked for eyewear unicorn Warby Parker, have bigger ambitions.
"We don't think of ourselves as a luggage company at all and we very strongly view ourselves as a travel brand. For us it's all about how can we make travel more seamless," Korey says.
According to the founders, investors include Forerunner Ventures, the original Warby Parker backers, Andy Dunn from menswear firm Bonobos, and Brian Lee from The Honest Company.
London, New York, Los Angeles?
Away plans to expand into accessories. It also wants to start a travel website with tips and recommendations.
The company has one retail store in New York's Soho, but it has also tested pop ups in Los Angeles, London and Berlin. Encouraged by the strong start, the firm is now looking at permanent stores in Los Angeles and London.

Korey says the company has grown a lot faster than they expected. But they're very careful about who they hire, despite the intense workload.
"It's going to be worth it to wait for that person who is truly aligned with this vision for creativity and execution and teamwork," Korey says.
Correction: An earlier version of this article incorrectly described Jay Z as a direct investor of Away.
It's a high-stakes gambit by the new president. Wall Street will be watching closely.
2. OPEC meeting: Oil markets are jittery ahead of a meeting of major crude producers.
U.S. crude futures were 0.7% higher on Friday, trading at $48 per barrel.
An agreement between OPEC and other major market players to slash production came into effect in January. Ministers from some of the nations are scheduled to meet on Sunday to discuss compliance with the deal.
The coalition largely stuck to its bargain during the first two months of the year, but American shale producers have been lured back into the market by higher prices.
"OPEC has no choice as far as I can see, beyond reaffirming the commitment to limit output and hoping that upward trend in U.S. oil supply stops," said Kit Juckes, a strategist at Societe Generale.
3. Electronics ban: Passengers on some flights to the U.S. and U.K. will have to check in most types of electronic devices staring at 3 a.m. ET on Saturday.
The ban includes laptops, cameras, gaming devices and tablets such as iPads. Some airlines flying to the U.S. have already started enforcing the new rules.
Officials said the move is a response to fears that terrorist groups may target commercial aircraft by smuggling explosive devices in electronic devices.
Airline electronics ban: What you need to know
4. Market overview: U.S. stock futures were edging higher early on Friday.
European markets opened lower, while most Asian markets ended the week with gains.
Under Armour (UA) shares were 3.7% higher premarket after the company announced it will release a new partly 3D printed running shoe next week.
The Dow Jones industrial average, the S&P 500, and the Nasdaq all closed flat on Thursday.
Before the Bell newsletter: Key market news. In your inbox. Subscribe now!
5. Earnings and economics: Sneakers retailer Finish Line (FINL) will release earnings before the open Friday.
The Census Bureau report on Durable Orders for February is out at 8:30 a.m.
Baker Hughes will release its oil rig count report at 1 p.m.
Investors will also be paying attention to Fed officials on Friday. Chicago Fed president Charles Evans, St Louis' Fed president James Bullard and New York Fed president William Dudley will all be speaking.
Download CNN MoneyStream for up-to-the-minute market data and news
6. Coming this week:
Friday - Samsung annual shareholder meeting; U.S. durable goods orders report
"Both parties have leverage with each other. The questions is: Can you pull your leverage without hurting yourself? Probably not. We're not approaching this in that sense. It should be a constructive process," Videgaray said.
 Mexico, U.S. don't agree on how to negotiate NAFTA
President Trump campaigned against NAFTA, calling it a "one-sided deal" that's only benefited Mexico. He too has threatened to pull out of the agreement and to slap tariffs, or taxes, on imports from Mexico.
Trump says he wants a better deal for American workers -- but his team isn't very clear on what exactly a better deal looks like.
Any day U.S. commerce secretary Wilbur Ross is expected to formally notify Congress of the Trump administration's plans to renegotiate. That notice triggers a 90-day consultation period. After those 90 days, real trade talks can begin. Ross said he expects negotiations to last about a year.
Ross and other Trump trade advisers have talked about revising something called rules of origin.
A part of NAFTA, the rules of origin mean a product has to have a certain percentage of its parts sourced from the three member countries.
For example, 62% of the parts in a car have to be sourced from the three countries. The rest of the parts in the car can be sourced from elsewhere in the world. Ross is hoping to increase that percentage but won't say how much.
 I sent money home to Mexico to support family
President Enrique Peña Nieto has outlined a broad plan for what Mexico wants in negotiations. Primarily, protections for Mexicans in the United States, no tariffs, and new provisions on e-commerce and rules of origin.
But Mexican officials too aren't precise about what they want.
The two countries' negotiators remain divided on how to actually negotiate the deal.
Ross said at a March 10 press conference with Mexico's economic minister, Ildefonso Guajardo, that the U.S. might do separate trade talks with Canada and Mexico. Guajardo immediately stepped in to say the entire agreement should be negotiated with all three parties present.
"NAFTA is a trilateral agreement. ... It makes a lot of sense to discuss [the chapters] trilaterally," Guajardo said standing next to Ross in Washington.
 Not enough votes -- House delays health care bill to Friday
The agency revised its figures to reflect amendments made to the bill that were announced on Monday. The new numbers do not take into account a deal underway to woo House conservatives to support the measure.
Though the bill would be more costly, it would still leave 24 million fewer people insured than under current law. Some 52 million people would be uninsured in 2026 under the GOP legislation, compared to 28 million if Obamacare continued -- the same as the prior estimate.
Also, it did not change the agency's outlook on premiums, which it expects would be higher initially, but then roughly 10% lower than Obamacare by 2026.
The initial score sparked outrage and concern that so many people would be left uninsured. Under Obamacare, the uninsured rate fell to the lowest level on record.
 What's changing in the Republican health care bill?
Much of the added costs stem from letting taxpayers deduct more of their medical expenses and repealing a slew of Obamacare taxes -- include two levied on higher-income Americans -- a year earlier.
The House purposely made legislation more expensive so the Senate could provide more generous tax credits to older consumers shopping in the individual market. House GOP lawmakers have come under fire because their bill would cause premiums to spike for those in their 50s and early 60s.
Funding for the additional tax credits -- which will be crafted by the Senate -- would come by allowing taxpayers to deduct medical expenses that exceed 5.8% of their income, according to a House staffer. The change would give the Senate $90 billion over 10 years to work with, the CBO found.
The original GOP bill set that threshold at 7.5%. Under Obamacare, taxpayers could only deduct medical costs greater than 10% of their income.
Other amendments to the original bill were mainly aimed at toughening Medicaid rules for adults, but making some allowances for the disabled and elderly covered by the program. Overall, that makes the bill more expensive, increasing the cost by $41 billion over a decade.
"The current U.S. debate about immigration policy has a backward-looking feel to it," the researchers write.
There was a big influx of low-skilled workers into the United States from the late 1990s to the early 2000s. Then the Great Recession crippled the housing market and the construction industry -- the second-leading employer of undocumented workers in the U.S.
Worker arrivals from all of Latin America are expected to keep falling. And the authors expect immigration of young workers from Mexico to fall to practically zero by 2050, even without new policies to deter immigration.
 Immigrant workers are most likely to have these jobs
Mexicans have long made up the largest proportion of low-skilled undocumented workers in the United States, but previous findings from Pew Research have suggested that more Mexicans are leaving the United States than coming in.
Beyond the economic downturn, the authors point to other factors keeping low-skilled immigrant workers at home.

Demographic changes in Latin America
The Baby Boom in the United States slowed in the 1960's, but the researchers say the Latin American Baby Boom didn't ease up until the '80s.
So while the supply of working-age Americans began to decline in the '80s, the supply of working-age Latin Americans kept growing, and they were drawn to the United States by strong demand for labor and higher wages.
But today there are fewer working-age people in Latin America, and the researchers say there will be even fewer in the future.
 Without immigrants, U.S. workforce would shrink dramatically over next 20 years
Border security
Trump's rhetoric may be new, but immigration enforcement has been increasing for years.
Between 2000 and 2010, the researchers say, the number of Border Patrol agents doubled to 17,500. Deportations of non-criminal immigrants rose from 116,000 in 2001 to an average of 226,000 a year from 2007 through 2015, they say.
An improved Mexican economy
It was in trouble in the '80s and '90s but has vastly improved. The 2000s were a time of steady economic growth, the researchers write. So earning power for low-skilled immigrants in the United States dropped compared with what they could make in Mexico.
In the '90s and early 2000s, a middle-income worker in Mexico could expect to make 2.3 times as much in the United States. Since 2007, that has fallen to 1.75 times, the researchers say.
 How one Mexican company keeps its workers from crossing the border
That's why the researchers say they don't understand the urgency for stricter immigration enforcement and a border wall.
"In light of the changing demographics of migrant-sending nations, the current emphasis of the U.S. government on further intensifying immigration enforcement is puzzling," they say. "Why build a wall to stop an immigration surge that has largely already occurred?"
The real policy challenge
It isn't how to keep immigrants out, but how to deal with the aging of those already in the United States.
The average age of an undocumented worker in the United States today is 40, and the researchers forecast that by 2040 it will be 70. In the next 15 years, the researchers expect the Latin American-born population over 40 years old to grow by about 8.5 million, or 82%.
"We should expect sizable growth in individuals relying on public safety-net programs," they say. "Under existing financing rules, U.S. states and localities would be the entities primarily responsible for shouldering these costs."
The legislation, which is expected to be voted on Friday, would hit those making less than $10,000 a year so hard because these folks receive hefty amounts of government assistance from Obamacare. Many benefit from the expansion of Medicaid to low-income adults, while those who earn just a bit more receive generous subsidies that lower their premiums, deductibles and co-pays.
The GOP bill, titled the American Health Care Act, would eliminate the enhanced federal funding for Medicaid expansion and cap federal support of the entire program. It would also replace Obamacare's subsidies with less generous tax credits based mainly on age, rather than income. (Individuals who earn more than $215,000 and couples making more than $290,000 don't qualify for tax credits, under the GOP bill.)
On average, families who earn less than $50,000 a year would be worse off under the bill, researchers concluded.
 CBO report: 24 million fewer insured by 2026 under GOP health care bill
A Congressional Budget Office report found that 24 million fewer people would be insured in 2026, including 14 million who would have had Medicaid, if the GOP bill becomes law.
On the flip side, the House bill would jettison two taxes that fall on individuals making more than $200,000 and couples making more than $250,000, starting this year. So wealthier taxpayers would benefit most from the bill.
But there are others who say that such a failure will actually spur Republicans to change the channel to tax reform ... and fast.
"If you deliver the president a loss on his first major legislative effort, there probably will be a lot of impetus to get moving on another big thing. [Republicans] won't want to sit around and sulk," said Gordon Gray, also a former Senate budget staffer who is director of fiscal policy at the center-right American Action Forum.
If Obamacare repeal fails and Republicans do press ahead on the tax front, they'll do so with very sobered expectations as to what they can accomplish, said Dean Zerbe, former senior counsel to the Senate Finance Committee chairman and currently national managing director at alliantgroup.
"It will all be more modest," Zerbe said -- noting for instance, there would be lower tax rates, just not nearly as low as promised.
 6 reasons tax reform may not happen this year
As it is, both lawmakers and Wall Street have been overly optimistic about what can be accomplished this year on the tax front.
They're underestimating how long it will take to get real buy-in from key players on something as complex as tax reform. And they've disregarded the difficulty of getting agreement on a key question: Should the cost of the the tax cuts in a reform package be paid for with tax increases elsewhere, and if so, where?
At this point, Zerbe can see Republicans opting for a package of tax cuts and other changes that add a trillion dollars or two to deficits in the first decade.
While the word "reform" might be used it won't be a full overhaul of the tax system.
If a health bill doesn't pass, Republicans could also push to include the repeal of some big Obamacare taxes as part of a tax package. If they do, lawmakers would have to offset them primarily with other tax increases or general revenue raisers, not with spending cuts as they could if the measures were included in Obamacare repeal, according to Gray.
"The more you have to make up with revenue, the more enemies you'll make," Gray said.
Of course, Republicans will also rely on so-called dynamic scoring to help make any package of tax cuts look less costly. Dynamic scoring assumes tax cuts will generate some economic growth. That growth in turn will generate revenue and that can partly offset the loss of revenue from a tax cut.
Just how much growth they might generate is something the Congressional Budget Office will have to estimate. But no expert believes tax cuts can pay for themselves in full.
Papa didn't even work for Valeant for the entire year. He was hired in May to clean up the mess. The company had to pay handsomely to lure him away from rival Perrigo (PRGO). Since Papa came on board, Valeant stock is down 67%.
While much of Valeant's problems predate Papa's tenure, he led a company that lost $2.4 billion last year, only narrowly avoided a default and had to fend off allegations from a short seller that called it the "Enron" of the pharma world.
Valeant also faces investigations over its relationship to a specialty pharmacy that critics say allowed the company to pump up its sale of expensive drugs.
Earlier this month, Valeant disclosed that its distribution, marketing, pricing and accounting practices are being investigating by federal prosecutors, the U.S. Senate, the House of Representatives, the SEC and various state authorities.
And billionaire Bill Ackman, one of Valeant's largest shareholders and its loudest defender, also sold his entire stake at a reported loss of $4 billion earlier this month.
Valeant's board acknowledged that the company's financial goals "were not sufficiently achieved" last year.
 Lloyd Blankfein takes pay cut at Goldman Sachs
Still, Valeant cited the "significance and quality" of Papa's contributions in disclosing the compensation plan.
Valeant's board said it's "very supportive of Mr. Papa's efforts to date and is confident in his abilities and those of his team to lead us through our transformation."
In particular, Valeant pointed to Papa's ability to bring in a new leadership team, improve sales force retention and clean up "weaknesses" in the company.
Valeant also said it needed to provide Papa with a "market competitive pay package" to "attract a proven, long-tenured sitting CEO." Of the $63 million Valeant compensation package, $8 million was meant to compensate Papa for the loss of stock awards he forfeited when he left Perrigo.
Meanwhile, leading executives at major companies that struggled far less than Valeant last year took pay cuts.
For instance, Apple cut CEO Tim Cook's 2016 pay by 15% because the iPhone maker suffered its first annual sales decline in 15 years. Yet Cook still led Apple (AAPL, Tech30) to an incredible $46 billion in profits last year.
Likewise, last week Goldman Sachs (GS) announced CEO Lloyd Blankfein took a 4% pay cut last year due to slumping revenue and a revamped compensation structure.
Stuart Miller, the CEO of Lennar (LEN), said in the company's earnings release this week that there was an "improving macroeconomic environment following last year's election."
He pointed to "renewed optimism, wage and job growth, and consumer confidence." Miller added that "as a result, our homebuilding operations have gone from slow and steady to a faster than expected sales pace throughout our first quarter."
The hope is that the economy, which already had started to pick up some steam in the past year before Trump's victory, will continue to gain momentum.
If that happens, prospective homebuyers may not be scared off by higher rates because their wages are also going up.
 Donald Trump wants 4% GDP growth. 3% will do just fine
And so far, that appears to be the case. New home sales surged more than 6% in February, to their highest levels in seven months. This could be just the beginning of an upturn.
"Taking into account a wide variety of indicators, the housing market continues its march higher. We expect further gains this year," said Barclays economist Rob Martin in a report about the new home sales figures Thursday.
Other companies that benefit from a stronger housing market have indicated that they are seeing signs of an uptrend too.
Pablo Vegas, executive vice president with the Indiana-based natural gas and electric utility NiSource (NI), said in an analyst day presentation earlier this month, that the company was benefiting from a solid housing market that shows no signs of overheating.
"We're not at the peaks of 2007, we're not at the lows of 2010, we're actually on an upswing. And the current economic conditions as they look, we think there's a lot of good opportunity to continue to take advantage of the new construction market," Vegas said.
And Jonathan Painter, CEO of Westford, Mass.-based pulp and wood products company Kadant (KAI), said during his company's earnings call last month that "the outlook for housing is still quite excellent in North America."
"If I look back at what our expectations were for the housing market versus which they turned out, it's a slower and steadier and basically a longer housing recovery, which is totally fine with me," he added.
 How Trump's budget cuts could hurt low-income Americans
Still, not everyone in the housing market will benefit from the recovery. There are legitimate concerns that an uptrend in housing will only benefit wealthier and upper middle class homeowners and prospective buyers.
Trump is proposing to cut the budget of the Department of Housing and Urban Development, which is now run by Trump's one-time GOP presidential rival Ben Carson.
What's more, Trump's plans to lower corporate taxes could make the current low-income housing tax credit less of an incentive for builders and developers. The low-income housing tax credit helps entice people to invest in affordable housing.
But for the time being though, investors clearly think the broader housing market will remain in an upswing. Homebuilders aren't the only stocks doing well.
The SPDR S&P Homebuilders ETF (XHB), a somewhat erroneously named fund that also owns Home Depot (HD) and Lowe's (LOW), appliance maker Whirlpool (WHR) and cabinets/plumbing/security company Fortune Brands (FBHS), is up 8% since Inauguration Day.
CWA spokesperson Desmond Lee called the deal a "big win for workers."
"We went on strike to demonstrate to the country that we will not do more work for less pay, especially when it puts us in a position not to deliver the best possible service," Robert Longer, an AT&T technician in Sacramento, said in a statement Thursday.
Company spokesperson Marty Richter said the agreement was reached after marathon talks Wednesday.
"We engaged in discussion with the union to get these employees back to work as soon as possible," Richter said.
 AT&T agrees to bring 3,000 jobs back to U.S.
The strike did not include workers in AT&T's wireless department. It only involved landline technicians and call center workers in California and Nevada.
Those employees have been working for nearly a year under expired contract terms, and the strike was a means of gaining leverage in ongoing negotiations, the union said. And though AT&T and CWA were able to come to terms Wednesday, it doesn't mean their troubles are over.
CWA said in a statement Thursday that workers in California and Nevada are becoming "increasingly frustrated" with how the company treats its workers.
"Despite the financial success, the company is asking its workers to do more for less -- keeping them from their families with unpredictable overtime, undercutting pay and advancement, offshoring good jobs, and pushing more healthcare costs onto employees," CWA said in a statement.
The union is also angry that AT&T has cut thousands of landline technician and call center jobs in the region in recent years. Elected officials in both states took up the issue by sending a letter to AT&T CEO Randall Stephensen, the CWA said last week.
The letter says the company is "harming communities by cutting thousands of good, middle-class jobs." It also accuses AT&T of dragging its feet on promises to provide high-speed internet throughout rural communities in California and Nevada.
A merger deal between AT&T and CNN parent company Time Warner is currently under review by regulatory authorities.
Starbucks, on the other hand, is flat this year and has lagged the performance of Dunkin' over the past year.
One reason? Starbucks is having some growing pains with its mobile app, which allows customers to place and pay for orders in advance and skip waiting on line at the checkout counter.
Starbucks (SBUX) incoming CEO Kevin Johnson, who will succeed founder Howard Schultz next month, said in the company's earnings call in January that the success of the app has had some unintended consequences.
So many people are ordering in advance that it has created a rush of orders for baristas to handle. So long lines to order have been replaced by long lines to actually get their coffee.
 Starbucks to add 240,000 jobs worldwide by 2021
It's happening at peak hours -- and scaring off some customers who are walking in the door without placing their orders in advance.
Johnson said during its annual shareholder meeting Wednesday that Starbucks has taken steps to address the issue.
At its busiest stores, Starbucks has added two employees to deal just with mobile ordering. Johnson said this is helping to ease some of the congestion.
Of course, too many orders is a good problem to have. But Starbucks also has to deal with the fact that Dunkin' Donuts -- as well as other rivals like Peet's, Caribou, Tim Hortons and even McDonald's (MCD) -- are all trying to become the new king of coffee.
What do you think? I have a poll up on Twitter about whether you prefer Starbucks or Dunkin' Donuts. Vote here.
Coffee time! If you could only choose one, which would it be? Sorry, fans of Death Wish, Tim Hortons, Peet's, Caribou, McDonald's, etc.
For what it's worth, Dunkin' Donuts has been particularly aggressive in the coffee wars. The company is planning to ditch its Coolatta iced coffee beverage in favor of a fancier one that will be available this summer.
"Frozen Dunkin' Coffee will offer our guests a more authentic, energizing coffee drinking experience compared to the Coffee Coolatta," said Chris Fuqua, senior vice president of marketing for global consumer insights & product innovation for Dunkin' Donuts in a statement.
Dunkin' is also experimenting with a nitrogen-infused cold brew, just like Starbucks. And it has several other new products on the way, including a Coconut Crème Pie flavored iced coffee, a Chocolate Pretzel Donut and Peanut Butter Delight Croissant Donut.
 Starbucks unveils whiskey barrel-aged coffee. Yum!
That has Starbucks on the defensive. Schultz said during the shareholder presentation that "the sabers are out" for him and that "we have analysts who believe maybe the bloom is off the rose at Starbucks."
Schultz went on to say that Wall Street does not know what it's talking about and that even though the stock doesn't reflect it, "I'd honesty say and I believe this, that this probably has been one of our best, most strongest, most meaningful years in our history."
One thing that Schultz is taking pride in is the fact that it is standing up to Trump's proposed ban on immigrants from several Muslim nations. In response to that, Starbucks announced plans in late January to hire up to 10,000 refugees.
But does Starbucks risk losing customers by mixing politics and Pumpkin Spice Lattes? There have been calls by some Trump supporters to boycott Starbucks.
And during the shareholder presentation, Justin Danhof from the National Center for Public Policy Research pointedly asked Schultz "how much will Starbucks investors have to spend" so that Starbucks can vet refugees it wants to hire and also wanted to know "why were you willing to have Starbucks reputation take a beating by attacking President Trump's executive order?"
 Starbucks still has a problem with long lines
Schultz responded by saying that there were no additional costs to screen employees.
He added that the decision to hire refugees was not about politics and refuted the notion that any protests by Trump fans are having a financial impact.
"There is zero, absolutely no evidence whatsoever, that there's any dilution in the integrity of the Starbucks' brand reputation or our core business as a result of being compassionate," he said.
Schultz also said in an interview with CNN's Poppy Harlow before the shareholder meeting that even though he supported Hillary Clinton, he backs Trump's plan to lower taxes and add jobs. And he's not worried about a backlash from Trump voters.
"I think that Starbucks has demonstrated over 40 plus years our unique ability to navigate successfully through lots of cyclical changes in the economy and political administrations," he said. "I'm very confident that we will be able to do that."
 Does anybody eat cereal for breakfast anymore?
Still, Dunkin' appears to be going out of its way to avoid polarizing political debates -- and that might be helping it.
Scott Hudler, Dunkin's chief digital officer, said at the company's media day Tuesday that "America runs on Dunkin', not Republicans run on Dunkin', Democrats run on Dunkin', It's America runs on Dunkin."
"When we think about elitism starting to fade away, this is our sweet spot," Hudler added. Those quotes were originally reported by Business Insider. A Dunkin' spokesperson confirmed that they were said to all attendees at the media presentation.
And based on how the two stocks have been doing lately, it certainly does seem that Dunkin' is in a sweeter spot than Starbucks. Wall Street, for now at least, runs on Dunkin'.
The Fed's latest findings haven't been published, but Yellen offered a sneak peak Thursday of the survey, which in years past sampled about 8,000 to 9,000 randomly selected Americans.
 Trump's childcare plan is gift to the rich
The Fed asked adults if they grew up worrying about having enough food, a stable caregiver, or for their personal safety. Of those who said yes, more than 50% said they're facing financial troubles as an adult.
For adults who never had those concerns growing up, only about 25% said they have financial problems.
Adults who grew up worrying about food, an unstable family, or safety were less likely to be employed, have stable income or be able to pay monthly bills compared to adults who had better circumstances growing up.
"Children who grow up in insecure circumstances, those often experienced in poverty, seem disproportionately likely to experience financial insecurity, as adults," Yellen said.
 U.S. inequality keeps getting uglier
The Fed's findings back up previous academic studies that drew similar conclusions. Harvard professors Raj Chetty and Nathaniel Hendren were among the authors of a 2014 study that detailed that the location of a person's childhood does affect their economic success as adults.
Yellen used the findings from the Fed's survey to underpin the importance of good education in low-income areas, as well as job training and skills development.
"Ensuring that all of our kids have strong foundations will help build a similarly strong foundation for the U.S. economy," Yellen said.
But now it expects a decline in sales in Asia Pacific and weaker pricing in many other markets. It's also expects Brexit to hurt its European operations, which finally moved from a loss to a profit in 2016. GM recently announced plans to sell its Vauxhall and Opel brands and exit Europe, partly due to costs associated with Brexit and political uncertainty there.
 Ford trying 3D printing for car parts
Ford did say will maintain its full-year forecast of only a modest decline in profits, anticipating earnings of about $9 billion this year after a $10.4 billion profit for 2016.
And the automaker says it believes it will be able to weather any change in costs if the Trump administration moves to put a tariff or some other kind of tax on imports from Mexico.
All major automakers in the U.S. market make some of their vehicles in Mexico. Ford estimates that 13% of the cars and trucks it sells in the United States are made in Mexico. While it recently dropped plans to build a new Mexican assembly plant, it is moving ahead with plans to shift its remaining small car production from the U.S. to an existing Mexican plant.
If confirmed, Clayton would fill one of three vacancies at the SEC, which is charged with protecting investors, rooting out financial crime and ensuring markets are fair to all.
But Democrats expressed serious concern that Clayton's client history will force him to recuse himself from so many matters that he won't be able to crack down on bad behavior.
Ethics rules would require Clayton to sit out enforcement votes during his first two years in office on matters involving former clients like Goldman Sachs and Deutsche Bank. Clayton would also need to recuse himself from matters where Sullivan & Cromwell, his elite law firm, represents a party.
"You can't vote to punish some of the biggest names on Wall Street," Senator Elizabeth Warren told Clayton, adding that deadlocked votes could allow some companies to "skate free."
"If President Trump wanted to make sure the SEC would have a hard time going after his Wall Street friends, it seems to me you would be the perfect SEC chair," Warren said.
But Clayton said he doesn't think recusals or his previous history will inhibit his ability to go after companies abusing the system.
"I pledge to you and the American people that I will show no favoritism to anyone," he said. Clayton also said "bad actors undermine the hard-earned confidence" that goes to the heart of the capital markets.
 Trump's Wall Street cop is a big defender of Wall Street
Clayton's list of clients at the elite law firm Sullivan & Cromwell reads like a who's who list of companies accused of the shady practices the SEC nominee wants to stop.
He's represented Volkswage, (VLKAF) which pled guilty to criminal charges over cheating on emissions tests; Valean,  (VRX)a drug maker accused of being the "Enron" of the pharma world for fraud; and Deutsche Ban, w (DB)hich has been charged in a $10 billion Russian money-laundering scheme.
Clayton's also advised Goldman Sachs on its controversial government bailout and Bear Stearns on its fire sale to JPMorgan (JPM).
Senator Bernie Sanders, a big critic of Wall Street, slammed Clayton in a statement on Wednesday as the "embodiment of the greed that nearly destroyed the economy."
"Mr. Clayton has spent his career providing get-out-of-jail free cards to Wall Street executives," said Sanders.
While Clayton acknowledged his role on deals "during the dark days of the financial crisis," he also highlighted his role in the public debut of Alibaba (BABA, Tech30), which was the largest IPO ever.
Echoing Trump's emphasis on deregulation, Clayton said it's "clear" that U.S. capital markets are "less attractive to business than in the past."
Trump has vowed to "do a big number" on Dodd-Frank and top economic adviser Gary Cohn said the administration will "attack all aspects" of the Wall Street reform law.
Asked by Democratic Senator Sherrod Brown which areas of Dodd-Frank he would attack, Clayton laughed and said, "I don't have any specific plans for attack, Senator."
Clayton explained that instead he wants to focus on whether rules mandated by Dodd-Frank have been effective and to prevent unintended consequences that could hurt the economy.
Brown said he fears efforts to remove investor protections against fraud and abuse represent a "collective amnesia" about the 2008 financial crisis.
"I can tell you that I don't have amnesia," Clayton said. "I worry about where the risks are today and making sure we don't have a repeat of that situation."
But if its future is in doubt, its past was very impressive.
More than a century before shopping online emerged, the Sears catalog brought a nearly limitless assortment of products into American homes -- homes where people often made their own clothes or furniture themselves or did without.
 Sears has 'substantial doubt' that it can survive
At a time when the majority of Americans lived on farms or in small towns, "it was life changing for many rural Americans," said Amanda Nicholson, professor of retail practice at Syracuse University. And once Americans started to move to the booming suburbs following World War II, Sears stores anchored the malls that helped those suburbs to grow.
"You could argue that for a suburb to grow, first comes the water and sewer lines, then came the retailers," said Greg Portell, lead partner in the retail practice with A.T. Kearney. "Sears democratized retail in America."
 A look at Sears through the years
The store made consumer credit widely available, which was a first for many of its customers. That allowed families to buy labor-saving appliances and electronics like washing machines, stereos and TVs that otherwise would have been out of reach. At one point, Sears claimed that 50% of American homes had an appliance made by Kenmore, the Sears brand.
"It was the place that people went to furnish their home," Nicholson said.
Sometimes Americans even bought their actual homes directly from Sears. Sears's iconic Craftsman houses came with a floor plan and all the materials required to build one. Precut lumber, wallboard and other materials were shipped by rail to the buyer to be constructed with minimal labor. Sears says 75,000 of the homes were sold between 1908 to 1940.
 There is a retail bubble -- and it's bursting
As Sears reached to every corner of the country, it also branched out into new businesses that reflected the changing American economy. It started Allstate Insurance (ALL) in 1931, and purchased both the Dean Witter brokerage firm and Coldwell Banker real estate in 1981. It teamed up with IBM (IBM, Tech30) to form Prodigy, one of the very first internet services, in 1984 and created the Discover (DFS) credit card in 1985.
"They had a phenomenal tradition of doing things that were highly innovative," said Nicholson.
Sears also became huge. By the 1990's, the company said that one out of seven Americans either worked for Sears, or had once worked there. And these weren't the low wage jobs with few benefits associated with many retailers today.
"These were jobs with health care and benefits and pension plans," said James O'Rourke, a professor of management at Notre Dame. "People looked to spend their entire career at Sears Roebuck. People thought there was no limit to the innovation at Sears."
It wasn't any one thing that led to its downfall. The rise of discounters like Walmart (WMT) and big box stores like Home Depot (HD) hurt, and obviously so did the onset of online shopping. There were also some bad decisions by Sears management, which never could manage to make the rest of its merchandise as popular as its appliances and power tools.
"As with so many things, the market moves on. Tastes change," said O'Rourke. "People said, 'That was fine then, it's not fine now.' When people go into a Sears today, they say 'I can do better.'"
European markets were mostly flat in early trading. London's benchmark FTSE 100 index seems to have been relatively unaffected by the deadly terrorist attack near Parliament on Wednesday.
Asian markets ended the day with modest gains.
2. Takeover talk: Has Amazon (AMZN, Tech30) struck a deal? Media reports indicate the online shopping platform has agreed to buy the Arab world's leading online retailer Souq.
American Airlines (AAL) is also expected to splash out some cash. Bloomberg reports the company is set to buy a $200 million stake in China Southern Airlines. Shares in the Chinese air carrier were halted in Hong Kong on Wednesday. The Guangzhou-based firm has promised "an announcement in relation to [a] possible major strategic cooperation."
Before the Bell newsletter: Key market news. In your inbox. Subscribe now!
3. More hints from the Fed?: U.S. central banker Janet Yellen is scheduled to give a speech at 8:30 a.m. ET at a Federal Reserve conference about the "economic futures of kids and communities."
While the Fed chief may not address her plan for interest rates, more clues could lie in a speech later in the day by regional Fed president Neel Kashkari, who raised eyebrows by voting against this month's rate hike.
4. Obamacare in focus: Wall Street will be closely watching developments on the bill to repeal and replace Obamacare. The White House said it's confident the bill will pass and warned there was no "Plan B".
Those backing the plan continue to work toward securing the 216 votes needed to pass the health care bill led by House Speaker Paul Ryan. But a backlash threatens to sink the effort or even scrap the vote altogether.
Additionally, Trump's nominee to lead the Securities and Exchange Commission -- Jay Clayton -- is having a confirmation hearing before the Senate banking committee at 9:30 a.m. He's expected to be pressed on his extensive links to Wall Street and quizzed about his ties to troubled companies like Volkswagen (VLKAF) and Valeant (VRX).
5. Earnings and economics: ConAgra (CAG) and Accenture (ACN) are set to release earnings before the open Thursday, while GameStop (GME) will release earnings after the close.
The U.S. Census Bureau will release its February New Home Sales report at 10 a.m.
Download CNN MoneyStream for up-to-the-minute market data and news
6. Coming this week:
Thursday - Accenture (ACN) reports earnings; U.S. new home sales report Friday - Samsung annual shareholder meeting
The kingdom is the world's largest oil exporter, so it's little surprise that energy is top billing as Salman travels with 1,500 people in tow. He's already been to Malaysia and Indonesia, with economic giants Japan and China up next.

 Here's how the Saudi king travels
Going where the growth is
The big focus for major oil producers is on markets where demand is growing. Right now, that means Asia.
Growth in global demand for crude is forecast to accelerate to 1.4 million barrels a day this year, according to FACTS Global Energy. One million of that is expected to come from Asia.

Other oil producing heavyweights haven't overlooked that fact. Saudi Arabia is vying with other Arab states as well as Iran and Russia for a bigger slice of the Asian market.
 Saudi economy will barely grow this year, IMF says
Preparing for a mega IPO
It's not just the region's fast growing emerging markets that are important. Japan's mature economy has overtaken China as Saudi Arabia's largest oil customer, according to Fereidun Fesharaki, chairman of FACTS Global Energy.
"This is why the king is going to Japan," he said. "It is very important for them that they keep the Japanese market warm."
Japan holds other interests, too. Saudi Arabia's sovereign wealth fund is teaming up with Japanese firm SoftBank (SFTBF) to launch a massive $100 billion tech investment fund.
The kingdom may also want to court Japanese investors as it prepares to sell shares in state oil giant Aramco next year in what's expected to be the world's biggest ever IPO.
In Malaysia and Indonesia, Saudi Arabia signed refining deals worth $13 billion -- major investments in fast-growing markets that could help bolster Aramco's IPO plans, and secure new outlets for its crude oil.
 Trump is banking on a big tech investment (from the Middle East)
Looking beyond oil
After Tokyo comes Beijing, where Aramco has its Asian headquarters. Saudi Arabia and China already have refineries in each other's territory.
But there is plenty to consider beyond energy. Saudi Arabia is eager for China to help its drive to diversify and break free of its oil addiction, a top priority of King Salman's young but powerful son, Deputy Crown Prince Mohammad bin Salman.
His big plan, "Saudi Vision 2030," aims to boost the role of the private sector and make the kingdom a competitive hub for manufacturing and services. The need for change has been highlighted by the pain inflicted on the Saudi economy by the drop in oil prices in recent years.

"When you have to start thinking of your non-oil future... then all of a sudden geography matters," Simpfendorfer said.
Saudi Arabia's renewed interest in Asia dovetails nicely with Chinese President Xi Jinping's "One Belt, One Road" plan. The initiative is aimed at connecting China with over 60 countries -- from Asia to the Middle East and Europe -- through the rebuilding of roads, railways and ports to speed up trade.
 Chinese President Xi Jinping defends globalization
'The Chinese provide the options'
China's ruling Communist Party has a history of delivering on long-term strategic projects. That's an approach the Saudis would like to emulate after failing to think beyond oil for a long time.
"You have somebody in China who has technology, money, people and the market, and somebody in Saudi Arabia who wants to look at future options," Fesharaki said. "The Chinese provide the options."
Those options, strategists say, take on added importance after the inauguration of President Trump, whose policy towards the complex and volatile Middle East remains unclear.
"Saudi [Arabia] rediscovered Asia over the last 10 years, yet momentum was fading," Simpfendorfer said. Now, rising political uncertainty elsewhere has reinvigorated that push.
Proponents of the bill say it would save the individual health market from collapse. The legislation would create a patient-centered health care system that provides Americans more choice, greater control and lower costs, they argue.
But opponents say it could reverse the gains in coverage seen since the Affordable Care Act was signed into law in 2010. The Congressional Budget Office found that 24 million fewer people would be insured by 2026 under the GOP bill.
 Trump warns GOP on health care: 'We won't have these crowds if we don't get this done'
What the bill calls for
Repeal the Obamacare subsidies. The GOP's plan would eliminate the Obamacare subsidies, which are advanceable refundable tax credits based on a person's income and cost of coverage in their area. More than eight in 10 enrollees on the Obamacare exchanges receive this assistance, but individuals making more than $47,500 and families of four earning more than $97,200 do not qualify. This provision would take effect in 2020.
Provide refundable tax credits based on age and income instead. The Republicans want to issue advanceable refundable tax credits to help people afford coverage on the individual market, but these credits will be based mainly on a person's age. The credits will range from $2,000 for 20-somethings to $4,000 for those in their early 60s. The credits will also have an income cap. Those making more than $75,000 would see their tax credits start to phase out, and an enrollee making more than $215,000 would no longer be eligible. Families with incomes above $150,000 would see their credits dwindle, while those earning more than $290,000 would no longer qualify. This provision would take effect in 2020.
 5 ways the GOP bill could change your health insurance
Push provision for bigger tax credits for older Americans to Senate. The House is setting aside roughly $85 billion in funding to provide additional tax credits to help older people buy policies on the individual market. But representatives are letting the Senate handle the crafting of the legislation. Many older consumers would face huge premium hikes under the GOP bill because its tax credits are not as generous as Obamacare's subsidies for lower-income enrollees in their 50s and early 60s.
Repeal the individual and employer mandates. The GOP's bill would get rid of the Obamacare requirement that people must have health coverage or face a tax penalty. It would also eliminate the requirement that employers with at least 50 employees provide health insurance to their workers. Under Obamacare, these companies were required to provide affordable insurance to staffers who work more than 30 hours a week. They would face a penalty if they did not meet this criteria and their employee sought subsidies on the exchanges. These provisions take effect retroactively to 2016.
 CBO report: 24 million fewer insured by 2026 under GOP health care bill
Put in place a continuous coverage requirement instead. The Republican plan seeks to allow insurers to impose a 30% surcharge on the premiums of those who let their coverage lapse for at least 63 days. The plan would enable insurers to levy this surcharge for one year, but it would only apply to policies bought in the individual or small group markets.
Repeal cost-sharing subsidies to lower deductibles and co-pays. The bill would kill the additional help that individuals earning less than roughly $30,000 a year receive to cover their out-of-pocket costs. More than half of the enrollees on the Obamacare exchanges receive these subsidies. This provision would take effect in 2020.
 Insurers worry low-income Americans won't have coverage
Delay the Cadillac tax. The Republican plan keeps but delays the controversial Cadillac tax, which calls for imposing a 40% excise tax on generous employer health insurance plans. Originally scheduled to go into effect in 2018, the law would have taxed employers on any premiums that exceed $10,200 for individual policies and $27,500 for family plans. After intense lobbying by companies and unions, lawmakers pushed back the start date to 2020. The Republican plan delays it until 2026.
Loosen the age-band so insurers can charge older folks more. Under Obamacare, insurers could only charge older enrollees three times more than younger policy holders. The GOP bill would widen that band to five-to-one, which would hike premiums for those in their 50s and early 60s, but reduce them for younger folks.
 If you're older and lower income, prepare to pay more under GOP health bill
Revamp Medicaid funding. The GOP bill would send the states a fixed amount of money per Medicaid enrollee, known as a per-capita cap.
States could also opt to receive federal Medicaid funding as a block grant for the adults and children in their program. Under a block grant, states would get a fixed amount of federal funding each year, regardless of how many participants are in the program.
States, however, cannot opt to receive block grant funding for elderly and disabled participants. Their federal support for those groups would still be based on enrollment.
Either option would limit federal responsibility, shifting that burden to the states. However, since states don't have the money to make up the difference, they would likely either reduce eligibility, curtail benefits or cut provider payments. The block grant would be more restrictive since the funding level would not adjust for increases in enrollment, which often happens in bad economic times.
End enhanced federal funding for Medicaid expansion. It would also end the enhanced match rate for Medicaid expansion for new enrollees starting in 2020. Those already in the program could stay as long as they remain continuously insured. States that have not already expanded would not be allowed to do so, starting immediately.
Allow states to institute work requirement for Medicaid. States would now have the option of requiring able-bodied Medicaid recipients to work, participate in job training programs or do community service. Pregnant women, children under the age of 19, single parents of children under age six and single parents of children with disabilities are exempt.
 Upstate New York gets $2.3 billion gift in Republican health care bill
Give most New York counties relief from Medicaid payments. Lawmakers added a provision that would ban the federal government from reimbursing New York State for Medicaid funds raised by counties outside of New York City. The upstate counties and Long Island send $2.3 billion to the state to help pay for Medicaid. The amendment would give the state the incentive to stop passing down Medicaid costs to the counties, though state officials say it would mean fewer people would be covered and benefits would have to be curtailed.
 Governors divided over Medicaid's future
Restore federal support for hospitals who cover many uninsured patients. The legislation would restore Medicaid Disproportionate Share Hospital payments in 2018 for states that didn't expand Medicaid and in 2020 for states that did. Under Obamacare, these funds were set to disappear by 2020 since the original law called for all states to expand Medicaid.
Create more generous Health Savings Accounts. Seeking to get more people to save money for health care expenses, the Republican bill includes several provisions aimed at making Health Savings Accounts more attractive. It raises the annual contribution limits to equal the maximum sum of the deductible and out-of-pocket expenses one would pay in a high-deductible insurance plan. So the limit would be at least $6,550 for an individual and $13,100 for a family in 2018.
The bill would also end the Obamacare prohibition on paying for over-the-counter medications with funds from tax-advantaged accounts, such as HSAs and flexible spending accounts. And it reduces the penalty from 20% to 10% if funds from an HSA are used for non-medical purposes. These provisions begin in 2018.
Ban excess tax credits from going into Health Savings Accounts. Enrollees whose tax credits exceed the cost of their premiums would not be able to put the additional funds in Health Savings Accounts. Some conservatives are concerned these funds could be used to pay for abortions.
 Companies offering HSAs could bank on big profits under GOP plan
Lift contribution caps on flexible spending accounts. Obamacare put a cap on annual contributions to flexible spending accounts based on cost of living figures. For 2017, that cap was $2,600. The GOP bill would do away with that limit as of December 31, 2017.
Offer two tax cuts for the wealthy. The bill would eliminate two taxes that Obamacare imposed on the well-to-do to help pay for the law: The 3.8% tax on investment income and the 0.9% Medicare payroll tax on incomes over $200,000 for individuals and $250,000 for married couples who file jointly. The provision would take effect in 2017.
 Here's how much millionaires would save under GOP Obamacare repeal bill
Repeal the taxes on health insurers, prescription drug makers and medical devices. The bill seeks to lift the annual tax Obamacare imposed on drug makers and health insurers and It would also get rid of the 2.3% excise tax on the sale of certain medical devices that was put in place. The taxes would disappear in 2017.
Say goodbye to the tanning tax. The bill would eliminate a 10% tax on indoor tanning services that was introduced as part of Obamacare. It would take effect in 2017.
 Republican health care plan would repeal 'tanning tax'
Repeal the tax break for health insurance executives' pay. The legislation would roll back the Obamacare provision that placed a $500,000 limit on deductions for each executive's compensation. Top insurers pay their leaders millions in compensation every year so this provision could mean a nice tax savings for the companies. The provision would begin in 2017.
 Health care plan has tax break for insurance execs
Reduce the income threshold for deducting medical expenses. Under the GOP bill, taxpayers would be able to deduct medical expenses that exceed 5.8% of their adjusted gross income. Obamacare had raised the threshold to 10%. This would begin in 2017.
Defund Planned Parenthood. In keeping with long-standing Republican beliefs, the legislation prohibits federal funding for Planned Parenthood. But the restriction is only for a year.
Eliminate support for CDC Prevention and Public Health Fund. The bill would eliminate nearly $1 billion in funding for this program, which Republicans call a slush fund. The Centers for Disease Control says the money supports heart disease and stroke prevention, immunization, lead poisoning prevention and diabetes prevention, mostly through grants to states and local programs.
 Advocates call foul on CDC cuts in repeal bill
Increase funding for community health centers. The bill would provide an additional $422 million this year for community-based outpatient facilities that provide health services -- such as medical, dental and mental health -- to lower-income populations.
Create the patient and state stability fund. This $100 billion fund would be available to the states between 2018 and 2026 for a number of reasons. Among them: offering financial assistance to high-risk patients, reducing the cost of providing coverage in the individual market, promoting access to preventative services as well as dental, vision, mental health and substance abuse services, and helping people reduce their out-of-pocket costs.
 These low income kids could lose access to dental care
Allow insurers to sell plans that cover less of the costs. Obamacare created four tiers of coverage, each with a requirement to cover a certain share of policyholders' costs, on average. The bill would eliminate this rule. Presumably, insurers would be able to offer plans with higher deductibles and co-pays. However, since the legislation does not lift the cap on out-of-pocket expenses, insurers could not require consumers to pay more than that for covered services. The deductibles for many bronze-tier plans are already pegged to that cap.
What the bill doesn't change
Protections for those with pre-existing conditions. Insurers are not allowed to discriminate against those with pre-existing conditions. They cannot deny them coverage, nor charge them more.
Allowing kids under age 26 to remain on their parents policies. The Republicans want to keep this Obamacare provision, which has helped insure young adults. By one estimate, seven million people get coverage as a result.
 Popular coverage for children under 26 may be health law's Achilles heel
Keeping annual and lifetime limits. Prior to Obamacare, many insurers in the individual market had caps on how much they'd cover each year or over an enrollee's lifetime. Some would not pay anything after an enrollee's care costs more than $500,000 or $1 million. Obamacare banned those limits.
Retaining out-of-pocket maximums. Under Obamacare, consumers don't have to pay anything after they hit the out-of-pocket maximum for in-network coverage. For 2017, the max is $7,150 for an individual and $14,300 for a family.
Maintaining comprehensive benefits packages ... for now. Obamacare requires insurers to cover 10 essential health benefits, including maternity, prescription drugs and mental health services. The Republicans want to jettison this rule, but can't do so under the budget reconciliation process.
Acosta will now appear before the committee March 22. Committee members will vote on Acosta's nomination the week after that, according to Alexander's office.
 Trump labor pick spoke out against discrimination in 2011
Acosta, a lawyer who led the Justice Department's civil rights division for two years under President George W. Bush, is Trump's second pick for the job.
Fast food executive Andrew Puzder withdrew his candidacy in February after several Republicans said they would not support him. Democrats and labor activists attacked Puzder's record on worker rights.
Other controversies, including a decades-old domestic abuse allegation, also troubled Puzder's candidacy.
Unlike Puzder, Acosta has spent much of his career in public service. He is now the dean of the Florida International University law school.
Trump's appearance in Nashville on Wednesday won't be the first time he's held a rally as president. Trump rallied supporters in Melbourne, Florida, on February 18.
Trump repeatedly railed on the unemployment rate during Obama's time in office as a "hoax."
Trump once claimed that he had "heard" the rate could be as high as 42% -- even though at the time it was about 5%.
 The secretive process behind the jobs report
Economists debate the best way to calculate statistics. But there is no evidence that the Bureau of Labor Statistics fudges its unemployment data.
The BLS is the Department of Labor agency responsible for compiling a vast store of government data about jobs that is used by businesses, economists and investors to judge the health of the U.S. economy.
"During the four years I served as commissioner, the administration didn't try to manipulate the numbers at all," said Erica Groshen, who served as BLS commissioner from January 2013 to January 2017.
The agency has used the same method for calculating the unemployment rate since 1940.
The monthly report is based on two surveys. One queries American households to produce the unemployment rate, and the other surveys businesses about the number of jobs added or lost each month.
The BLS also publishes "alternative" measures of employment each month, which include many different metrics for the public and politicians to review.
 U.S. economy added 235,000 jobs in Trump's first full month
Despite Trump's past feelings on the jobs report, the president changed his tune Friday after a positive showing: The economy added 235,000 new jobs during his first full month in office, and the unemployment rate dropped to 4.7%.
Said White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer: "I talked to the president prior to this, and he said to quote him very clearly: 'They may have been phony in the past, but it's very real now.'"
Friday's report marked the 18th month in a row that unemployment was at or below 5% -- a level considered low by most economists.
-- CNNMoney's Cristina Alesci, Patrick Gillespie, Julia Horowitz and Heather Long contributed to this story.
 What CBO got right -- and wrong -- on Obamacare
 Groups lining up in opposition to GOP health care plan
2. Fed rate hike? Markets seem to think it's a given that the Federal Reserve will raise interest rates Wednesday.
Federal Reserve Chairwoman Janet Yellen has said the Fed will move on a March rate hike if the economy stays on track. Friday's robust jobs report has made a bump all but certain.
The Fed last raised rates in December -- only the second time it's done so in about a decade. Most Fed leaders have forecast three or more rate hikes in 2017.
 Yellen signals March rate hike would be 'appropriate'
 U.S. economy added 235,000 jobs in Trump's first full month
3. Revised travel ban goes into effect: President Trump's revised order limiting travel from six Muslim-majority nations goes live on Thursday.
The scene at U.S. airports will probably be more orderly. But noise surrounding the ban's second iteration is ramping up. A federal judge will hear a lawsuit filed by Hawaii on Wednesday. Washington, Minnesota, Massachusetts, New York and Oregon are also asking a federal judge to block it.
More than 100 companies supported the legal fight against Trump's initial order. Many executives have maintained their opposition this go-round. That's particularly true in the tech industry, in which hiring immigrants is common practice.
 Federal judge to hear first lawsuit against new travel ban
 These 127 companies are fighting Donald Trump's travel ban
4. SXSW melee: Big ideas mega-conference South by Southwest kicked off in Austin, Texas, on Friday, and the action continues throughout the week.
Tech and media luminaries will rub elbows with a diverse cross-section of influencers at the event's panels and parties. Representatives from Alphabet (GOOG), Amazon (AMZN, Tech30), Facebook (FB, Tech30), Netflix (NFLX, Tech30), Lyft will all be in attendance.
5. Coming this week:
Monday - CBO releases score for House Republicans' health care bill
Tuesday - Fed meeting kicks off
Wednesday - Fed expected to announce rate hike; Labor secretary hearing; U.S. debt ceiling suspension expires
Thursday - Trump travel ban takes effect; OMB releases spending cut proposals
Friday - Steven Mnuchin attends G20 meeting
Under the Affordable Care Act, single taxpayers with incomes above $200,000 and couples making more than $250,000 annually have paid an additional 0.9% Medicare payroll tax on the amount they earn above those thresholds. Another 3.8% tax applies to investment income above those income levels. The two taxes have been in place since 2013.
Millionaires pay the majority of those taxes, so they would reap the largest benefit if the levies are repealed. But it's not just those those making $1 million-plus who would save. People earning between $500,000 and $1 million annually would get a tax cut of nearly $55 billion over a decade, while those with incomes of between $200,000 and $500,000 would save about $53 billion.
 Who wins and who loses in Obamacare replacement
The Joint Committee on Taxation analysis, obtained by CNN, was reported earlier by the New York Times.
In total, the committee estimated that repealing the Medicare payroll tax surcharge would cost the federal government $117 billion over 10 years, while the investment income levy would cost $158 billion. The GOP bill, titled the American Health Care Act, also calls for repealing a host of other taxes, including those on insurers, medical device makers and prescription drug makers.
A new report by the nonpartisan Tax Policy Center found that repealing all these taxes would mean that nearly everyone in the Top 1%, who earn more than $772,000 a year, would enjoy a hefty tax cut, averaging a little more than $37,000 in 2022. Tax filers in the Top 0.1% would get an average tax cut of more than $207,000.
 GOP's Obamacare replacement plan would lower taxes for the rich
At the same time, lower-income Americans who are insured through Medicaid or subsidized policies bought on the Obamacare exchanges are expected to suffer under the Republican legislation. The GOP plan calls for eliminating the enhanced federal support states receive to cover low-income adults under Medicaid expansion, as well as curtailing federal funding for the overall Medicaid program.
Also, the legislation would replace Obamacare subsidies, which are based on income and cost of coverage, with refundable tax credits that are based mainly on age. The tax credits -- between $2,000 and $4,000 -- are expected to provide less assistance to lower-income people.
 Millions could lose insurance under GOP Obamacare repeal bill, S&P reports
These provisions are likely to leave millions unable to afford insurance, experts say. The Congressional Budget Office is expected to release its review of the bill on Monday that will detail the impact on coverage.
--CNN's MJ Lee contributed to this report.
Then, during the depths of the financial crisis in 2009, Bharara got the coveted prosecutor's job in New York. Because it oversees federal crime in Manhattan, the U.S. attorney's office in the Southern District has a rich history prosecuting cases involving Wall Street and banks.
 US Attorney Preet Bharara says he has been fired
And Bharara prosecuted scores of financiers, some of whom are now behind bars.
One of his most high-profile cases was that of Raj Rajaratnam, a former hedge fund manager, who was sentenced to 11 years in prison and fined $93 million in 2011 on insider trading charges brought by Bharara.
The man who leaked information to Rajartnam, former Goldman Sachs board member Rajat Gupta, received a two-year prison sentence in 2012.
"He's had a very, very significant impact," said John Coffee, the director of the Center on Corporate Governance at Columbia Law School. "There were other [U.S. attorneys ] that prosecuted insider trading, but none as rigorously and systematically."
Bharara's most prized target was hedge-fund billionaire Steve Cohen. He never made a criminal case against Cohen but he went after several employees of Cohen's SAC Capital, and the company was fined $1.8 billion in 2013.
More recently, Bharara prosecuted two executives from Valeant Pharmaceuticals who were arrested in November last year and charged with concocting a massive fraud scheme.
The Civil Frauds Unit that Bharara created landed nearly $500 million in settlements. That includes multi-million dollar deals with CitiMortgage and Deutsche Bank for engaging in the type of reckless lending practices that led to the financial crisis.
 Anger mounts over handling of US attorney firings
But Bharara was criticized by some who thought he didn't do enough to push criminal charges against financial fraudsters. A column in the Guardian was headlined: "Why is Preet Bharara, the 'scourge of Wall Street', taking a friendly tone towards mortgage bankers?"
Bharara defended his office against those claims. He cited a lack of evidence as a reason for his restraint. At a National Press Club event in 2014, Bharara said the lack of criminal cases "has not been as a result of a lack of effort," the Atlantic reported.
He'll also leave behind a legacy of aggressively prosecuting political corruption. Bharara extensively investigated officials in Albany, the New York state capital, and secured "convictions against multiple elected officials and other corrupt public servants," according to his office.
Bharara's exploits taking on hedge funds inspired the Showtime series "Billions," in which Paul Giamatti plays a cutthroat federal prosecutor.
Brian Koppelman, the co-creator of Billions, said on Twitter on Saturday that he's not surprised by how Bharara's departure played out.
A few times last season people were like: are you sure US Attorney's Office stuff is this political. We were like: ummmmm, yas.
This is Levien and me w PB/PG right outside US Atty's Office in July. Lotta laughs. (I've lost 18 lbs since). pic.twitter.com/8HrvZFAknu

"The time to act is now," wrote Joseph Swedish, Anthem's CEO. "The American Health Care Act addresses the challenges immediately facing the individual market and will ensure more affordable health plan choices for consumers in the short-term, including through the expanded use of health savings accounts."
The company's letter comes at the end of a long week for Republican leaders, who have tangled with everyone from conservatives in their own ranks to the AARP over their health care bill.
 Nobody wants their name on the Republican health care bill
While Republicans have pledged to plow ahead without making significant changes to the bill, the pressure has been mounting for lawmakers to do something to salvage support. Anthem's backing may help them do just that.
Other insurers, however, haven't rushed to the bill's defense so far. The insurance industry's two main lobbying groups expressed mixed views on the legislation, praising its provisions to stabilize the market but expressing concern that it may render coverage unaffordable for many lower-income consumers.
The bill contains several provisions the industry has requested, including repealing Obamacare's tax on health insurers and allowing carriers to charge older enrollees more compared to younger ones. But it also has some more controversial measures, such as curtailing federal support for Medicaid and providing refundable tax credits based mainly on age, not income. Critics say the bill could leave millions uninsured.
 Insurers worry GOP bill will leave low-income Americans without coverage
In its letter, Anthem specifically praised the creation of a $100 billion fund that states could use to subsidize the cost of caring for sick enrollees.
The carrier also approved of shedding the tax on health insurers and allowing consumers to use tax credits to buy individual market coverage outside of the exchange.
It also highlighted the importance of continuing the Obamacare cost-sharing subsidies that reduce the deductibles and co-pays of lower-income enrollees. However, the GOP's bill actually repeals that assistance starting in 2020. Insurers are anxiously waiting to see if Congress will appropriate the funding for the subsidies until then.
Anthem warned that if the cost sharing subsidies aren't funded and other reforms made, the market will "continue to deteriorate." It specifically urged that Congress continue to support Medicaid.
CNN's Lauren Fox contributed to this report.
For years, these companies and others have been lobbying lawmakers for changes that could become reality with a Republican-controlled Congress and Trump administration.
The GOP health law replacement plan introduced Monday in the House reflects the party's broad consensus for giving more Americans access to HSAs, which allow people to put aside money tax-free for medical expenses.
 HSAs: Big tax break or gimmick to benefit the wealthy
"There is an excitement in the business now," Dr. Steve Neeleman, founder of Utah-based HealthEquity and a former trauma surgeon. "There are definitely things Washington can do to make HSAs more enticing to a broader market."
Health saving accounts were introduced in 2003 in legislation championed by President George W. Bush. Enrollment has grown steadily to nearly 21 million accounts with $41 billion in assets, according to the Devenir Group, a research and consulting firm that tracks the industry.
Still, that number is a small fraction of the 178 million people who have health insurance through their jobs or purchase it on their own.
Industry officials are eager to reach new markets, including baby boomers in Medicare and enrollees in the military's Tricare system, for whom — under current law — HSAs are off-limits. They also want to manage larger accounts that generate more revenue. Republican proposals in Congress could help accomplish both.
Proponents say consumers with HSAs may be more judicious in using services and seeking lower prices because their own money is at stake. Backers also like the tax breaks: There's no tax on the funds' investment gains or on withdrawals if spent on medical care. But critics note this treatment favors the wealthy as those with lower incomes often struggle to afford health care and have little to set aside in savings accounts.
A 2015 study found that high-income households were considerably more likely than low-income to contribute to HSAs. The highest-income tax filers were also substantially more likely to fund their accounts fully.
 What CBO got right -- and wrong on Obamacare
Under current law, HSA accounts must be paired with a high-deductible health plan. Individuals can contribute as much as $3,400 annually, or $6,750 for families. Unused balances roll over to the following year, and consumers can take the account with them when they leave an employer, much like a 401(k) retirement account. Some employers contribute to HSAs on behalf of their employees.
The House Republican plan proposes to nearly double the HSA contribution limits to at least $6,550 for individuals and $13,100 for families beginning in 2018. Meanwhile, in the Senate, other proposals — including one by Sen. Rand Paul (R-Ky.) and another advanced by Sens. Bill Cassidy (R-La.) and Susan Collins (R-Maine) — lay out slightly different yet favorable treatment of HSAs.
The over-65 market in Medicare is a prime target for expansion.
"That is a great population that has the potential to save and really take more control over their health care," said Eric Remjeske, president of the Devenir Group, the research and consulting firm.
Neeleman agreed and said it's wrong to shut out thousands of Baby Boomers who are retiring every day. "It's just not fair," he said. Backers note that, even though Medicare is not a high-deductible health plan, there is cost sharing in Medicare, which leads many in Congress to think the prohibition should be abandoned.
It's already a lucrative business. In a February investor presentation, HealthEquity touted a gross profit margin of 57% on its 2.7 million health savings accounts. And the company said the accounts become more profitable over time, reaching a 72% profit margin six years in as costs decrease and balances grow.
The companies overseeing these accounts rake in money from a variety of fees, much like banks do.
Often consumers pay service fees that range from $2 to $5 per month for each account. The companies also earn interest on the customers' money they manage in what's known as "custodial" revenue. And HSA administrators collect fees from merchants when consumers use company-issued debit cards to pay for medical expenses out of their accounts.
At HealthEquity, the second-largest HSA provider, about half of its revenue comes from service fees and the rest is derived from custodial revenue or debit fees, according to its annual report.
 Who wins and who loses under Obamacare replacement bill
Companies can also earn fees from mutual funds offered to customers as investment options. In the workplace, some employers cover some or all of the fees for workers.
Neeleman said that HealthEquity and other firms provide an important service and that they're upfront about the fees they collect. Optum declined to comment for this story.
In addition to well-heeled retirees on Medicare, companies running these accounts also see opportunity among lower-income households.
Several states have experimented with adding savings accounts in Medicaid, the state-federal insurance program for the poor. Vice President Mike Pence embraced this idea while he was governor of Indiana. Medicaid members in Indiana can get additional benefits such as vision and dental coverage if they make small monthly contributions to accounts similar to HSAs. However, debate continues as to how effective the approach will be for this population.
Industry officials doubt they will get everything on their wish list from Congress. For instance, unlimited contributions to tax-free accounts could cost the federal government too much in revenue and invite more criticism that HSAs are a tax shelter for the rich.
Kevin Robertson, a senior vice president and director of sales for HSA Bank, the industry's third-largest company, said some proposals are "more likely wishful thinking" but the overall direction is unmistakable as the GOP pushes a market-driven approach to health care.
"The political and economic winds are favorable and most definitely pushing HSAs," he said.
Kaiser Health News is national health policy news service that is part of the nonpartisan Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation.
It turns out there's a federal rule -- which far predates Twitter -- that says executive branch employees are not supposed to comment on major economic reports until an hour after they are released.
"Except for members of the staff of the agency issuing the principal economic indicator ... employees of the Executive Branch shall not comment publicly on the data until at least one hour after the official release time," a 1985 directive issued by the Office of Management and Budget reads.
The OMB, in issuing the rule, highlighted the need to "preserve the distinction between the policy-neutral release of data by statistical agencies and their interpretation by policy officials."
Spicer defended the tweets at Friday's White House press briefing, noting that the jobs figures were reported online and on television right away.
"I apologize if we were a little excited, and we were so glad to see so many fellow Americans back to work," he said.
The rule, Spicer said, aims to stem market fluctuations. The White House's tweets wouldn't wind investors up.
"I don't think that's exactly a market disruption," Spicer said.
Just another day on Twitter for an administration that uses social media as one of the primary ways it communicates with the public.
"We didn't have anything like Twitter to worry about," said Glenn Hubbard, head of the U.S. Council of Economic Advisers under President George W. Bush from 2001 to 2003.
Great news for American workers: economy added 235,000 new jobs, unemployment rate drops to 4.7% in first report for @POTUS Trump
.@POTUS Trump delivers in first #JobsReport. 235,000 new jobs and unemployment rate down to 4.7%. Great news for American workers!
GREAT AGAIN: +235,000 https://t.co/GkockGNdtC

Timothy Fletcher, who ran the JPMorgan hiring program and led the firm's junior resources management group in Asia, is facing a $500,000 fine from the Fed in addition to a permanent ban.
Following a three-year investigation, regulators fined JPMorgan (JPM) $264 million in fines in November and alleged the bank "corruptly influenced government officials" with its hiring and internship tactics in China.
 Wells Fargo fallout: Execs reshuffled, 3 managers out
According to the Fed, between 2008 and 2013 Fang and Fletcher violated U.S. anti-bribery laws by trying to win business through internships and other employment opportunities for individuals recommended by foreign officials, clients and prospective clients.
The Fed said the conduct of the former JPMorgan execs involved "personal dishonesty or a willful or continuing disregard for the safety and soundness" of the firm.
The practice was so common at JPMorgan that authorities say the bank called the initiative the "Sons and Daughters" program and even used spreadsheets to track how often the hires turned into business deals.
Authorities said JPMorgan hired about 100 interns and full-time employees, many of whom were unqualified for the plum jobs, at the request of foreign officials.
JPMorgan declined to comment on Friday's statement from the Fed. However, the bank previously admitted the conduct in the scandal was "unacceptable" and said it "took action against the individuals involved."
Slice Intelligence reports that US sales of Ivanka Trump products on Amazon (AMZN, Tech30) were up 332% in January and February compared to a year prior. The brand's sales at Macy's (M) were also up 148%, and 29.5% at Bloomingdale's, according to Slice.
Since February 2017, #nordstrom stock increases 7% while @IvankaTrump clothing line increases over 300%. You decide the big winner here.
"Since the beginning of February, they were some of the best performing weeks in the history of the brand. For several different retailers Ivanka Trump was a top performer online, and in some of the categories it was the [brand's] best performance ever," Abigail Klem, president of the Ivanka Trump brand, said in a statement Friday.
President Trump's longtime attorney Michael Cohen said Friday that the sales data shows there is a clear winner in the Nordstrom v. Ivanka Trump debacle.
"Since February 2017, #nordstrom stock increases 7% while @IvankaTrump clothing line increases over 300%. You decide the big winner here," he said.
Nordstrom's stock is actually up 4% over the last 30 days, but it's still down 7% year to date.
And comparing share price to sales figures doesn't really tell us much. Stock prices fluctuate based on investor sentiment, and there is no indication that dropping the Ivanka Trump brand has harmed Nordstrom's business.
While Trump supporters have called for a Nordstrom boycott, anti-Trump advocates -- including at least a dozen celebrities -- have flocked to Nordstrom to praise the company's decision to drop the Ivanka Trump brand.
If only our so called President listened to her. I love @Nordstrom and will keep shopping there to make a point-- and I need slacks! https://t.co/RggdS9mMr3
shop nordstrom ! pic.twitter.com/lDwRnkIch9
Brand expert Eric Schiffer said while it's possible Ivanka Trump got a "short term entrepreneurial explosion" from the press coverage, the Ivanka Trump brand was bound to grow -- particularly overseas -- now that its namesake is tied to "the glamor" of the White House.
"She continues to represent the quintessential American woman that is successful, a mother and beautiful, and they want that image for themselves," he said. "But there's also a lot of women who see her as tied to someone who wants to take us back to the days of 'Game of Thrones,' and they'd rather buy from the devil."
About 38% of corporate travel professionals in Europe say they are avoiding the U.S., according to a survey the group conducted this week after the new, less restrictive ban was unveiled.
"We've done surveys after terrorism events, when there were high fuel prices, SARS and Ebola outbreaks. This is unlike anything we've ever seen before," McCormick said.
 Airport Lawyer service helps fliers worried about the travel ban
The new travel restrictions block citizens of six majority Muslim countries in the Middle East and Africa -- Syria, Iran, Libya, Somalia, Sudan and Yemen -- from getting visas to travel to the U.S. for at least 90 days.
But there are lots of signs that travelers from Europe and Asia also plan to stay away.
Bookings for inbound travel to the United States from around the globe fell 6.5%, compared to last year, during the period that the original travel ban was in effect, according to data released Monday by ForwardKeys, a research firm that tracks 16 million airline bookings a day. (The ban started on Jan. 27 and was put on hold by a federal judge on Feb. 4.)
Bookings recovered slightly after the original ban was blocked by the courts, but President Trump's vow on Feb. 16 to unveil a new travel ban order sent them down again.
 Tech companies condemn Trump's revised travel ban
"The information ... makes it clear that the travel ban has damaged the U.S. travel industry," said Olivier Jager, CEO, ForwardKeys. "The presidential rhetoric appears to be deterring visitors to the USA."
Other factors could be hurting travel into the U.S., including a strong dollar that makes travel here more expensive for foreign visitors. But the dollar was already strong when industry forecasts, before Trump's election, called for a 2017 increase in international travel to the U.S.
Jonathan Grella, spokesman for the U.S. Travel Association, which represents hotels and tourist attractions, said members of his group are reporting canceled reservations. He said people in his industry would like to see the administration do more to promote travel to the U.S. even as it puts restrictions in place.
"We understand the administration's responsibility to keep the nation safe," said Grella. "But nothing is lost if you say 'We would love to have people visit.' People do need to be overtly welcomed."
New York City, the largest U.S. destination for foreign travelers, plans a $3.5 million ad campaign in foreign markets to drum up international travel.
The city had expected to see a 400,000 increase in foreign visitors in 2017, according to the firm Tourism Economics, but it now expects a 300,000 decline.
 More than 100 companies join legal fight against travel ban
Nationwide, the number of foreign travelers to the U.S. is expected to drop 3% in 2017 after having originally been forecast to grow by 4%.
Foreign travelers to New York City spend four times as much as domestic visitors, staying longer and spending more while they are here. New York City believes that it could lose $600 million in spending by international travelers this year.
And that spending translates into jobs. The U.S. Travel Association estimates more than 1 million jobs are tied to spending by foreign travelers.
February traffic reports released this week by the three largest U.S. airlines -- American (AAL), United (UAL) and Delta (DAL) -- show no real sign of a drop-off in international travel. The declines were similar to what was reported for January, before the travel restrictions were announced.
But travel executives say the drop in bookings is very real.
"While we're not seeing impact quite yet, we're worried," said Chris Heywood, spokesman for the New York City's visitors bureau. "This is a critical time of year when many foreign travelers are booking their summer holiday. People have choices."
In reality, nearly 90% of its quarterly revenue once stemmed from "sham transactions," according to a Securities and Exchange Commission complaint.
Medbox founder and majority shareholder Vincent Mehdizadeh allegedly orchestrated the scheme and then used the proceeds to buy a luxury home in California's Pacific Palisades.
The SEC said Mehdizadeh installed his then-fiancee Yocelin Legaspi as CEO of New-Age Investment Consulting, a shell company that carried out "illegal stock sales" used to inflate Medbox's revenue.
"The only thing we are really good at is public company publicity and stock awareness," Mehdizadeh said in a text message, cited in the complaint.
"We get an A+ for creating revenue off sheer will," the Medbox founder and chief operating officer allegedly wrote.
Mehdizadeh and Medbox, which has since changed its name to Notis Global (NGBL), agreed to a settlement, which is pending court approval.
As part of the settlement, Mehdizadeh must pay more than $12 million in ill-gotten profits and penalties. He also agreed to be barred from serving as a public company officer or director.
"Investors were misled into believing that Medbox was a leader in the burgeoning marijuana industry when the company was just round-tripping money from illegal stock sales to boost revenue," Michele Wein Layne, director of the SEC's Los Angeles Regional Office, said in a statement.
 Trump is a buzzkill for pot stocks
Mehdizadeh said in a statement that he decided to settle without admitting or denying the allegations "for peace of mind and so that I could move on with my life" following a three-year investigation.
He said he didn't read the SEC's complaint and doesn't plan to, adding, "They have their version of what happened and I have mine."
Mehdizadeh said his attorneys are in the process of filing a complaint against previous legal counsel for providing incompetent advice related to his work at Medbox.
Notis Global didn't respond to a request for comment nor did its lawyer.
Legal action continues against Legaspi and former Medbox CEO Bruce Bedrick, who the SEC said was "complicit in the scheme" and also personally profited off it.
 Mexican company faked the building of 100K homes: SEC
The Medbox charges are the latest in a series of red flags about the risks of investing in marijuana-related penny stocks.
In 2014, the SEC suspended trading in five different pot-related stocks due to "potential illegal activity."
At the time, the SEC sent an investor alert warning about the risk of "fraudsters" spreading false information about marijuana companies to enrich themselves while "creating losses for unsuspecting investors."
Investors also need to navigate complex political risks. Pot stocks took a hit after the Trump administration signaled last month it plans to get tough on marijuana. White House press secretary recently promised "greater enforcement" of federal marijuana laws.
Innovative Industrial Properties (IIPR), a NYSE-listed company that buys buildings and leases them to growers of medical marijuana, has lost 15% of its value so far this year after going public in 2016.
Lawyers representing Bedrick and Legaspi didn't respond to requests for comments.
--CNNMoney's Aaron Smith contributed to this report.
The British economist used the phrase to describe the very human urge to take positive action, even in the face of uncertainty. "If the animal spirits are dimmed and the spontaneous optimism falters, leaving us to depend on nothing but a mathematical expectation, enterprise will fade and die," he wrote.
The newspaper columnist William Safire, who wrote elegantly on both politics and language, traced the etymology of the term further in 2009. The earliest use he found was a translated text on surgery from 1543. Daniel Defoe deployed it in "Robinson Crusoe," as did Jane Austen in "Pride and Prejudice."
Safire said it was William Wood who first applied it to economics in 1719: "The Increase of our Foreign Trade ... whence has arisen all those Animal Spirits, those Springs of Riches which has enabled us to spend so many millions for the preservation of our Liberties."
 How much credit should Trump get for jobs?
Keynes, who was writing in the aftermath of the Great Depression, was exploring the "why" of economic decision making. What encourages a business owner to take a risk? What are the psychological motivations that make markets and economies tick? The answer was, in part, animal spirits.
More recently, however, animal spirits has taken on a different implication -- being used to describe not only action, but irrational action.
That may have been the way Dimon was using the term:
"One of the CEOs came out of one of those meetings [with Trump] and said, 'We've never had such a pro-business president since the founding fathers.' Now, I'm not sure that's true, but consumer confidence, small business confidence, all skyrocketed -- because it's a growth agenda," Dimon said.
 Rust Belt voters made Trump president. Now they want jobs
The economist Robert Shiller, co-author of a book that explores animal spirits, wrote in 2009 that researchers have learned much more about psychological motivation in the decades since Keynes' "General Theory" was published.
"Social psychologists ... have shown how much stories and storytelling, especially human-interest stories, motivate much of human behavior," he wrote in the Financial Times. "People's economic moods are largely based on the stories that people tell themselves and tell each other that are related to the economy."
It's easy to see the narrative investors may be responding to with Trump in the White House. He's promised huge tax cuts, less regulation of business and a jobs strategy for the ages.
They may, however, be discounting some important warning signs. Trump's supercharged rhetoric has pushed the U.S. closer to a trade war with China. His views on key economic issues are not well understood, and he often contradicts top advisers.
"Stocks went up maybe rationally because of the growth agenda. Now [Trump has] to do it," Dimon said. "I think they will get it done -- it's just going to take time."
If Trump can't deliver, watch out.
"When confidence is high, and since financial assets are hard to evaluate by those who are buying them, people will and do buy snake oil," Shiller wrote. "And when that is discovered, as it invariably must be, the confidence disappears and the economy goes sour."
"It's a good jobs report, but he hasn't done anything yet," says economist Doug Holtz-Eakin of the right-leaning American Action Forum.
To speed job creation and boost the economy, Trump wants to slash taxes, fix Obamacare, spend more on infrastructure and revise trade deals with Mexico, Canada and other countries. But none of those plans is even close to being enacted.
On top of that, 235,000 new jobs isn't exactly a blowout number. Under President Barack Obama, the economy created almost exactly the same number of jobs in the previous two Februaries -- 237,000 in 2016 and 238,000 in 2015.
"This is very much in line with the kind of job growth we've seen over the last several years," says economist Elise Gould of the left-leaning Economic Policy Institute.
 U.S. economy added 235,000 jobs in Trump's first full month
Trump used to slam Obama for 4.7% unemployment
The White House seized on the report as a sign of great economic progress. Trump's press secretary, Sean Spicer, tweeted, "Great news for American workers." He pointed out the job gains and a slight drop in the unemployment rate to 4.7%.
Yet the unemployment rate first fell to 4.7% last May -- around the time Trump was slamming the Obama economy as weak. As a candidate, Trump called the unemployment rate itself a "joke" and a hoax, suggesting that the government was cooking the books.
Now the Trump White House is celebrating 4.7% unemployment as a number that deserves praise.
Figuring out how much credit Trump should get is impossible. Holtz-Eakin jokes that it's somewhere between 0% and 100%. If there's a consensus view, it's this: The first jobs report was good, but not amazing. The real test is what happens a year from now.
 Check out the new CNNMoney Trump Jobs Tracker
Can Trump deliver 25 million jobs?
As CNNMoney has pointed out before, Trump inherited a "pretty solid" economy. This first jobs report of the Trump term is in line with where things stood before he took office.
Mother Nature also helped in February. The biggest job gain last month came from the construction industry. That was mostly because it was a warmer than average month, and builders in many parts of the country could keep putting up walls and roofs.
Trump does deserve credit for an uptick in business and consumer optimism. It's why the stock market has soared to fresh records. Holtz-Eakin attributes it mainly to Trump's efforts to scale back regulation.
"He gets credit only for stopping things that would have happened if [Hillary] Clinton had been elected," Holtz-Eakin says. In December alone, Obama signed 99 pieces of new regulation, the American Action Forum found. Trump is working to roll back many of those policies.
On Inauguration Day, the White House posted on its website that Trump's policies would lead to 25 million jobs over the next decade and 4% annual economic growth, double the average under Obama.
Trump needs to add just over 208,000 jobs a month to get to that 25 million goal. In the very early going, he's on track. (You can keep checking at the CNNMoney Trump Jobs Tracker.) But the hard work is ahead.
"I would love to see that job growth rate for the next two to four years," Gould says. But she notes that it can't go on forever. The economy is already close to full employment, which most economists think is somewhere around 5% unemployment. (There will always be people looking for work, even in a very healthy economy.)
Adding 208,000 jobs a month won't be possible after awhile, Gould says. There won't be enough workers left to fill the posts, at least not without immigration, something Trump is pushing to limit.

Commerce secretary Wilbur Ross wants to keep the option open for the U.S. to hold separate trade talks with each of the stakeholders: Canada and Mexico.
"It will either be two parallel bilaterals...or one main trilateral," discussion, Ross said at the press conference in Washington.
Mexico's economic minister, Ildefonso Guajardo, doesn't view separate talks as an option. He immediately jumped on the mic after Ross' comment and emphasized that all talks should occur will all three parties present.
"NAFTA is a trilateral agreement...it makes a lot of sense to discuss [the chapters of NAFTA] trilaterally," Guajardo said.
Ross did not respond to Guajardo.
 My American job is moving to Mexico
There is already debate about whether Canada and the U.S. would strike a trade deal without Mexico. Canada's ambassador to the U.S. hinted in January that Canada would consider one-on-one trade talks with the U.S., and press secretary Sean Spicer has emphasized that the Trump administration wants bilateral deals.
President Trump calls NAFTA a "one-sided deal" that's only benefited Mexico and caused the U.S. to lose jobs to its southern neighbor. Congressional nonpartisan research concluded in 2015 that NAFTA did not cause an exodus of jobs, and Mexican officials frequently note that millions of U.S. jobs depend on trade with Mexico.
Ross said Friday that he aims to formally begin the process toward renegotiating NAFTA in the coming weeks. That requires the U.S. to announce an official 90-day consultation period before any negotiations with Canada or Mexico occur.
 Why a trade deficit isn't like losing money
Ross told Bloomberg Wednesday that "real" NAFTA negotiations won't take place until later this year, and that talks hopefully won't last much longer than a year.
Guajardo said Friday that Mexico already triggered its 90-day consultation period and will be ready to negotiate by May.
Overall, investors took the press conference well. The Mexican peso -- an indicator for U.S.-Mexico relations at the moment -- rose above 1%, a solid gain, on Friday. Trump's trade threats against Mexico pushed the value of the peso to an all-time low in January before recovering a bit.
Still, all parties recognize the road ahead is a long one. Ross and the Trump administration have said few specifics about what a better NAFTA looks like.
 Wilbur Ross wants a higher minimum wage -- in Mexico
One thing they want to change is called "rules of origin" which requires a certain amount of parts in a product, like a car, to be sourced from within the three countries. Trump's advisers have talked about increasing that amount but haven't put an exact number on it yet.
However, Trump's threat of tariffs against Mexico would be a deal breaker for Guajardo. There was no mention of tariffs on Friday.
Guajardo told CNNMoney in February that any tariffs against Mexico will be met with retaliation. That would start a trade war.
"From Mexico's point of view, opening tariffs will be a big mistake," Guajardo told CNNMoney's Richard Quest on Feb. 17. "If anything is done on one side, it has to be compensated with actions on the other side."
Guajardo and Ross did announce that they would try to resolve a dispute between sugar producers and suppliers on both sides of the border. Mexico recently suspended its sugar exports because they had reached a limit previously agreed to. That created a raw sugar shortage for some U.S. firms.
Spanish oil giant Repsol (REPYY) and its privately-held U.S. partner Armstrong Energy announced the find on Thursday, predicting production could begin as soon as 2021 and lead to as much as 120,000 barrels of output per day.
The oil resources lie in a well, called Horseshoe, that's 75% owned by Denver-based Armstrong. Repsol owns the rest of this well.
The discovery is 20 miles south of where the two companies have already found oil in a project known as Pikka. That northern project is already in early development and is 51% owned by Armstrong, which is the operator on both developments.
"The interesting thing about this discovery is the North Slope was previously thought to be on its last legs. But this is a significant emerging find," Repsol spokesman Kristian Rix told CNNMoney.
Of course, this news won't ease rising concern among investors about the stubborn glut of oil in the U.S. There are increasing signs that shale oil producers are preparing to ramp up output after surviving a two-year price war with OPEC.
 Booming again: U.S. poised for record oil output
Repsol has been actively exploring in Alaska since 2008 and has an additional presence in the Gulf of Mexico. Shares of the oil and gas company jumped nearly 3% in Madrid trading on Friday.
The North Slope find comes less than six months after Caelus Energy and private-equity giant Apollo Global Management announced a massive Alaska oil discovery in the waters of Smith Bay.
All of this is a big win for Alaska, which last year had to freeze hiring and limit state employee travel due to trouble in the oil industry. Alaska, which relies on oil and gas taxes for the vast majority of its state revenue, has been hit by the one-two punch of shrinking production from its mature fields and the fact that oil prices have been cut in half in recent years.
Things have gotten so bad that the Trans-Alaska Pipeline System is barely being used these days.
"This is also great news for the State of Alaska," Alaska Governor Bill Walker said in a statement. "We must all pull together to fill an oil pipeline that's three-quarters empty."
It works like this: A thin, hollow needle is pushed through the cork to inject argon gas into the bottle. The gas pressure forces wine back up through the same needle and into the glass, while preventing the rest of the bottle from oxidizing. When the needle is withdrawn, the cork reseals.
Lambrecht's inspiration for Coravin came from medicine. After studying nuclear engineering at MIT, he went into medical engineering after working at Johnson & Johnson (JNJ).
His first start up -- Intrinsic Therapeutics -- makes technology for spine implants and cancer treatments.
"I thought - in medicine we go through things all the time with needles and don't damage them," he said.

"My dad is diabetic, he has an insulin bottle, he sticks his needle through, he drives in the insulin. Maybe I can go through this cork and try to suck out wine like my dad does with insulin?"
Coravin is available in 50 countries for $299, or $199 depending on how slick you want your model. The argon capsules cost $11 each and need replacing after 15 glasses of wine.
That begins to add up. The cost of pouring six glasses would add more than $4 to the price of a bottle.
But the serial entrepreneur rejects suggestions that Coravin is a luxury product.
"I use Coravin even on a $10 bottle of wine. It's about drinking the amount I want and having that wine in the perfect shape every time I taste it," Lambrecht said.

Coravin's biggest markets are in the U.S., U.K., and France but it's hoping to grow in China and Japan as well as South Africa, Australia and New Zealand.
The company hired Frédéric Lévy, former president of Nespresso North America, as CEO in 2015 to lead its expansion. One of his early deals was with Morton's The Steakhouse.
The restaurant chain was one of the first to offer premium wines by the glass using Coravin. Lambrecht says his product can save restaurateurs a whole lot of money by preventing waste.
However, individual consumers still account for 90% of Coravin's business. Lambrecht said it allows people to taste a far broader range of wine -- and that's proving particularly appealing to younger drinkers.
"I've met more Millennials who have had Txakolina wine [from the Basque County in Spain] than Cabernet," he said.
The scandal has consumed the country, allowing other problems to fester. Growth is slowing. The outlook is grim.
South Korea "faces a toxic mix of challenges," said Rajiv Biswas, Asia-Pacific chief economist at IHS Markit.
Here are some of the biggest issues:
Tension with China
South Korea's decision to host a U.S. missile defense system on its soil has infuriated China, its biggest trading partner. Beijing has made its anger felt by putting the squeeze on South Korea. It has unofficially ordered travel agencies to stop selling trips to South Korea and made life difficult for at least one major South Korean corporation.
The stakes are high: China accounts for about a quarter of South Korean exports and nearly half of its annual tourist visits.
"The South Korean economy is highly vulnerable to Chinese economic retaliation," Biswas said.
 One company is bearing the brunt of China's anger over U.S. missile system
Business leaders under fire
The massive corruption scandal that brought down Park has also swept up some of the country's top companies, including the biggest of the lot: Samsung.

The giant conglomerate's de facto chief, Lee Jae-yong, is in jail and on trial for bribery and other charges. He and other top Samsung execs deny the allegations against them, but could face years in prison if found guilty.

Samsung's woes could turn into a much broader problem if a leadership vacuum at the company means key decisions on strategy and investment are delayed. The vast group is estimated to account for around 15% of South Korea's entire economy.
 How Samsung dominates South Korea's economy
Shipping crisis
A key part of South Korea's economy is a total mess.
The slowdown in world trade has caused a crisis in the shipping and shipbuilding industries. A case of too many container ships without enough cargo to carry has brought giant companies to their knees.
Hanjin Shipping, one of the biggest cargo lines in the world, collapsed last year. And the government has promised billions of dollars to prop up the country's massive shipbuilding firms, which have been cutting thousands of jobs.
 Artist stuck aboard 'ghost ship' in Pacific after cargo firm goes bust
No push for reform
Economists aren't optimistic about the South Korean economy's prospects this year.
"A sharp rebound is not on the cards," said Tan of Capital Economics. "Growth is likely to be held back by a combination of high household debt, the ongoing restructuring of the shipbuilding industry, and mounting external headwinds."
And it's not certain whether a new president will tackle the major economic issues facing the country, including a rapidly aging population and a rigid labor market.
"There has so far been very limited discussion on the kind of reforms Korea needs," Tan said. The lack of a strong majority for any party in parliament "suggests that whoever is elected as president will struggle to push through reforms."
2. Trouble in Seoul: South Korea's Constitutional Court voted Friday to remove President Park Geun-hye from office over alleged corruption.
The removal of South Korea's first female president, which comes amid rising tension with North Korea, caps months of street protests over a corruption scandal that reached into the top echelons of business and politics.
Lee Jae-yong, the de facto chief of Samsung (SSNLF) and the country's most prominent business leader, has also been ensnared in the scandal. Preliminary hearings in his trial began Thursday. His legal team denied all the charges.
Stocks in the country had a muted reaction to Park's removal.
"The installation of a new president should provide a boost to short term growth prospects," said Krystal Tan, an Asia analyst at Capital Economics. "A return to normality should help prop up sentiment, which has been badly damaged by the recent political scandal."
3. Crude stability: The price of crude oil rebounded 1.3% on Friday to trade near $49.90.
The move higher follows two very rough trading session for the commodity, which fell below $50 this week for the first time since December.
Investors are worried that an OPEC deal to cut production may not be enough to prevent oversupply in the market.
Data released this week showed that U.S. crude stockpiles are at record highs. American shale producers could deepen the oil glut as their output recovers.
4. Global market overview: U.S. stock futures were in positive territory.
European markets were also broadly higher. Asian markets ended mixed, with the Nikkei turning in a 1.5% gain.
The price of gold dipped below $1,200 on Friday. For those who prefer digital safe havens, a single bitcoin could be purchased for the same price.
U.S. stocks were little changed on Thursday.
Before the Bell newsletter: Key market news. In your inbox. Subscribe now!
5. Stock market movers: A smattering of companies will report earnings on Friday, but no major market players are on the schedule.
Download CNN MoneyStream for up-to-the-minute market data and news
6. Coming this week:
Friday - U.S. jobs report
"The U.S. economy is doing very very well at the moment," says Jeremy Cook, chief economist at World First, a foreign exchange firm.
Economists say it will be a challenge for Trump to fulfill his promise to create 25 million jobs over the next 10 years. The unemployment rate is already very low, and many Baby Boomers have either retired or left the job market.
At least in his first full month, though, Trump is on pace to fulfill that promise.
 CNNMoney launches the Trump Jobs Tracker
Last year, the economy averaged about 190,000 new jobs per month. The economy is showing other signs of strength: Consumer and business confidence is high, and stocks are at record levels.
Wage growth continued to show signs of progress after persisting at a sluggish pace for years. Wages grew a solid 2.8% in February compared with a year ago.
In February, manufacturing added 28,000 jobs. Trump has promised to increase manufacturing jobs by getting better trade deals for the United States. Construction companies hired another 58,000 workers last month. Experts say that increase is mainly due to warm winter weather in the Northeast and Midwest.
 The secretive process behind the jobs report
Jesse Singh says better weather in February helped his firm, AZEK Building Products, keep pace with rising demand ahead of the summer building season.
"The warm weather is allowing construction firms to accelerate projects to be able to continue to meet their strong demand," says Singh, whose company is based in Skokie, Ill.
However, other sectors did not perform as well. The retail sector lost 26,000 jobs in February as major retailers like JCPenney (JCP) announced store closings. Government and transportation jobs saw meager gains.
Solid job gains almost certainly clear the way for the Federal Reserve to raise interest rates next week. Fed leaders like Chair Janet Yellen said a rate hike in March would be appropriate if the economy stayed on track. It did just that.
"The Fed is going to hike next week. That's for sure," says Paul Mortimer-Lee, chief economist at BNP Paribas.
"Eliminating the Legal Services Corporation will not only imperil the ability of civil legal aid organizations to serve Americans in need, it will also vastly diminish the private bar's capacity to help these individuals," the letter said.
Mulvaney, who runs the Office of Management and Budget, is expected next week to release proposed budget cuts to offset President Trump's request for a $54 billion increase in defense spending next year.
Those cuts would come primarily from domestic non-defense programs. As part of those, the White House Budget Office will recommend eliminating some agencies from the federal payroll altogether.
Federal LSC funding helps nearly 2 million people a year. But that's just a fraction of the 63 million people estimated to be financially qualified for LSC-funded legal services.
And Jim Sandman, the group's president, told CNNMoney that the vast majority of low-income people have legal civil needs every year. They range from housing problems (such as wrongful eviction or substandard living conditions) to family disputes over child support and child custody to consumer scams. People also need help filing insurance claims after natural disasters or applying for federal lifeline benefits.
While LSC enjoys bipartisan support, the Congressional Budget Office has noted that its critics contend that legal services lawyers "too often focus on social causes rather than on meeting the needs of poorer people with routine legal problems."
Its supporters make the case that the money provided through LSC represents a substantial amount of funding for LSC grantees. The CBO said it remains "the single largest and most important funding source for civil legal services nationally."
Indeed, Sandman notes, more than half of legal aid funding comes through LSC in 12 states, most of which have large rural populations: Alabama, Arizona, Idaho, Indiana, Kansas, Mississippi, Nevada, New Mexico, South Carolina, South Dakota, Texas and Utah.
Sandman fears his group is on the hit list for elimination because he hasn't heard word one from the OMB, a clear departure from prior years.
"LSC has received no response to the budget request we submitted to the Office of Management and Budget last September, even though other agencies are reported to have received responses to their requests last week. It seems to be a signal," he said.
An OMB spokesman said the president's "budget blueprint will be released in mid-March" and it would therefore be premature to comment on the "internal discussion" at the White House.
Another point of concern for insurers is the Republicans' effort to overhaul and reduce federal support for Medicaid.
Already, health care experts are predicting that the bill will leave millions uninsured because of this shift and several other provisions.
Unlike leading health care provider groups representing doctors and hospitals, the insurers' associations do not oppose the bill. In fact, they say some of the measures will help stabilize the individual market. But they are flagging problems, mainly with the tax credit structure and the measure to curtail federal support of Medicaid.
 Republicans' Obamacare replacement bill: The winners and losers
Insurers have a vested interest in keeping people enrolled in the individual and Medicaid markets since it means more business for them. However, many carriers have found themselves losing money in the exchanges after sicker-than-expected people enrolled, prompting some to pull back or hike premiums. They have lobbied the Obama administration for years to help them deal with high-cost enrollees.
Now, they see problems looming with the Republican approach to replacing the Affordable Care Act.
The tax credits are a main concern. Many people in the Obamacare exchanges make only 100% to 200% of the poverty level, or about $12,000 to $24,000 a year. The Obamacare subsidies cover nearly all of their premiums.
Under the Republican plan, a 27-year-old making only $20,000 annually would lose $1,225 in assistance, on average, according to a study by the Kaiser Family Foundation. A 60-year-old earning the same amount would receive nearly $5,900 less. And the difference could be even greater in some high-priced places because Obamacare takes into account the cost of the premium, while the GOP tax credit does not.
"Making a payment [with a credit] that's just age adjusted is going to be difficult for them, Marilyn Tavenner, CEO of America's Health Insurance Plans, said at the group's annual conference this week.
 Millions could lose insurance under GOP Obamacare repeal bill, S&P reports
Likewise, the Blue Cross Blue Shield Association, whose members are big players in the individual market, want the GOP to adjust the tax credit structure.
"The tax credit to purchase health insurance coverage should be tied to income and the cost of coverage, in addition to age, in order to provide adequate assistance to older and lower income Americans," the association wrote in its list of recommended changes to the legislation.
The industry groups also have other issues with the bill, primarily the GOP's push to curtail federal support for the overall Medicaid program, which covers more than 70 million Americans. Insurers have become increasingly active in this sphere, contracting with states to cover these folks through Medicaid managed care.
Republicans want to set a cap on federal funding for Medicaid per enrollee, leaving states to make up any additional costs. And they want to curtail the rate of growth of future federal support. This would likely prompt states to limit eligibility or cut benefits.
This does not sit well with the insurers.
"As a core principle, we believe that Medicaid funding should be adequate to meet the healthcare needs of beneficiaries," Tavenner wrote to two Republican committee chairmen. "We are concerned that key components of the proposed new funding formulas starting in 2020 ... could result in unnecessary disruptions in the coverage and care beneficiaries depend on."
In recent weeks, Wells Fargo has also stripped CEO Tim Sloan and seven of his top lieutenants of their 2016 bonuses, fired four other execs and replaced the notorious sales goals that fueled the fraudulent behavior.
All of this comes as Wells Fargo braces for the findings of an independent board investigation into the fake account scandal. Results are expected to be released prior to what could be a contentious annual meeting with shareholders on April 25.
"We have taken many steps to rebuild trust with customers and team members, but we have more work to do in our journey," Mary Mack, head of the Wells Fargo community banking division at the heart of the scandal, wrote in a memo to employees this week.
As part of the latest shake-up, Wells Fargo announced the demotion of former Southwest regional boss John Sotoodeh and reassignment of small-business banking head Lisa Stevens.
Mack's memo cited the importance of "putting people in place who come to work every day thinking about how to best serve customers" and help employees. She said the reorganization is aimed at making Wells Fargo "more streamlined, efficient, and consistent across our branches."
 Wells Fargo strips CEO, top execs of bonuses
Wells Fargo said Sotoodeh will no longer lead the Southwest region, which included large markets like Texas and Arizona. The 27-year veteran of Wells Fargo will go from executive vice president overseeing approximately 15,000 employees to a regional president who manages less than half that total.
Stevens, another high-profile executive, is losing control of Wells Fargo's small-business banking division. That group will now be led by a single executive, while Stevens will still head Wells Fargo's western region.
"It's been a long 35 days. It's absolutely been difficult," Stevens said at the espnW Women + Sports Summit in October, following the Wells Fargo fake-account settlement.
 Big banks rack up $6.4B in ATM, overdraft fees
Wells Fargo also said it has parted ways with three managers who led important regions. That includes Misha Patel Terrazas, a manager in Arizona, who The Wall Street Journal says designed questionable sales tactics.
The other two managers who are out are Marla Vasquez Razzaghipour and her husband Reza Razzaghipour of Southern California.
Wells Fargo confirmed the three "are no longer with the company," but declined to comment on the circumstances of their departure.
However, the bank's statement suggested the decision was linked to the scandal. "We are focused on ensuring we have the right people and leaders in place to rebuild trust and build a better bank," a Wells Fargo spokeswoman said.
Former Wells Fargo employees have described a toxic culture at the bank, which fired 5,300 workers over five years for improper sales tactics.
Some employees told CNNMoney they were ousted after calling Wells Fargo's ethics hotline to flag illegal behavior. Wells Fargo has admitted to finding evidence that some of these retaliation claims by whistleblowers may have merit.
"At that time, Treasury anticipates that it will need to start taking certain extraordinary measures in order to temporarily prevent the United States from defaulting on its obligations," Mnuchin wrote in a March 8 letter to leaders in the House and Senate.
He didn't specify how long "temporarily" will last. The Bipartisan Policy Center and Congressional Budget Office, however, have recently estimated that all the measures combined are likely to be exhausted sometime this fall.
If lawmakers haven't acted by then, the Treasury Department will no longer be able to pay all the country's bills because it will have run out of borrowing authority. And there won't be enough revenue plus cash on hand to cover all legal obligations.
Those obligations -- approved over the years by both parties -- include paying bondholders, federal contractors, Social Security recipients, tax filers owed refunds and a vast array of other parties for services rendered and benefits due.
That's why it's wrong to assert, as some do, that raising the debt ceiling is a "license to spend more." It's more like a license to continue paying what the country already owes.
Defaulting on any set of obligations could hurt the economy and markets to varying degrees, depending on who gets stiffed and for how long.
Typically no party in the majority wants that kind of crisis on their watch. So it's not surprising that Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell on Thursday told Politico that Congress would raise the debt ceiling. "The government will not default," McConnell said.
But that doesn't mean the path will be easy. Conservatives or Democrats -- seeking leverage -- may decide to make any number of demands in exchange for their support to raise or suspend the ceiling.
In any case, lawmakers will have several opportunities between now and the fall to deal with the issue. They have to pass two budgets -- one for the rest of this fiscal year and one for next year. And, if they get far enough on health reform or tax reform, they could work in a provision in those bills.
And Mnuchin very well may prod them again.
"As I said in my confirmation hearing, honoring the full faith and credit of our outstanding debt is a critical commitment," he wrote. "I encourage Congress to raise the debt limit at the first opportunity so that we can proceed with our joint priorities."
"The U.S. and indeed the global economy is walking a fine line due to increasing leverage and the potential for too high (or too low) interest rates to wreak havoc on an increasingly stressed financial system," he added.
Wall Street hopes Trump's plans to roll back Obama-era rules on banks and health care and reduce taxes for the middle class and businesses can push the economy into a higher gear like it was during the Clinton and Reagan administrations.
But Gross is worried about the amount of credit outstanding in the U.S. -- as well as in China. He made several comparisons to 2008 when the collapse of Lehman Brothers sent the entire global market into a tailspin.
"Our highly levered financial system is like a truckload of nitro glycerin on a bumpy road," Gross wrote.
"One mistake can set off a credit implosion where holders of stocks, high yield bonds, and yes, subprime mortgages all rush to the bank to claim its one and only dollar in the vault," he added.
 Will Trump cheer or jeer Yellen if Fed raises rates?
Gross is worth listening to, but it's also worth noting that he's been sounding alarm bells for some time now.
And this is not his first criticism of Trump. In December, Gross warned that "investors must consider the negatives of Trump's anti-globalization ideas which may restrict trade and negatively affect corporate profits."
What's more, Gross' track record also hasn't been as good as it used to be.
So some might argue that his complaints are sort of like the famous boy who cried wolf.
Brian Nick, chief investment strategist at TIAA Investments, said he agrees with Gross that the stock market may be too excited about Trump, while bond investors are showing a little more trepidation about the possibility of higher interest rates.
Nick said that the bond market is acting like the sober designated driver while the stock market is closer to euphoria.
But he's not predicting another Lehman-like collapse. Instead, Nick thinks that the market may just cool off a bit and flatline until there is more evidence that Trump will get what he wants from Congress.
"Valuations are high right now and I'm not sure how much higher they can get," Nick said. "The market is pricing in too much optimism about the speed of infrastructure spending and a fiscal boost from tax reform. It's close to a best case scenario."
Melissa Brown, managing director of applied research at Axioma, added that she's surprised that volatility is this low given some of the risks that still remain.
 Will Trump Make Inflation Great Again?
Wall Street's so-called fear gauge, the VIX (VIX), is down nearly 15% this year and hovering near multi-year low levels.
And CNNMoney's Fear & Greed Index, which looks at the ViX and six other indicators of sentiment, has been showing signs of Greed or Extreme Greed for most of this year.
That could be a problem, particularly because Gross fears that the Federal Reserve and other central banks around the world won't be able to respond to a new crisis as adeptly as they did eight years ago because they are out of ammo.
Most have already slashed short-term rates and launched so-called quantitative easing programs -- buying long-term bonds to keep their yields low and spur more borrowing.
"Today, central bank flexibility is not what it was back then," Gross said.
He did praise Fed chief Janet Yellen, saying that she has been like a modern-day Goldilocks who has kept bond yields neither too high nor too low.
But he added that mounting debt loads have the potential "to wreak havoc on an increasingly stressed financial system."
The critical information is kept under a tight seal until it's published on the the first or second Friday of each month.
The jobs report is very influential. It can easily move global financial markets and affect the direction of U.S. monetary policy. It's also the most important barometer on the economy's health.
 My American job is moving to Mexico
The White House's Council of Economic Advisers briefs the president on the jobs numbers the afternoon before they are released. It's standard procedure and the U.S. Labor Department confirmed the president will get his briefing on Thursday.
Friday's report will reveal the U.S. job market's performance during Trump's first full month in office. He's promised to create 25 million new jobs over the next 10 years.
Trump criticized the legitimacy of the unemployment rate during his campaign, but he hasn't said much about it since taking office. In January, the unemployment rate was 4.8%.
Economists surveyed by CNNMoney forecast the rate falling to 4.7% in February.
The fact is that the people who put together the numbers -- economists, analysts, number crunchers -- take their job very seriously. The U.S. Labor Department's Bureau of Labor Statistics, or BLS to economic nerds, has used the same method for calculating the unemployment rate since 1940.
 Rust belt voters got Trump elected. Now they want jobs.
BLS has painstaking protocols so the figures are not tampered with. Its officials lock the rooms where they crunch the numbers. They so prize secrecy that they put their trash cans outside their sealed offices so office workers don't accidentally get a hint of the numbers before they're made public.
The monthly report is based on two surveys. One is the household survey, which produces the unemployment rate, and the establishment survey, which produces the number of jobs added or lost each month.
 U.S. economy adds strong 227,000 jobs in January
Household survey = What's the unemployment rate?
1. Each month, the Census Bureau contacts 60,000 households selected to reflect geographic, industrial and agricultural diversity. Households are put on a rotation, with some surveyed for 4 consecutive months, and others phased in and out each month.
2. It asks respondents 11 questions. The answers to the questions determine whether a person has a job of if they are currently looking for a job.
3. People with a full-time or part-time job are considered employed. People who don't have a job and have looked for work in the past 4 weeks are considered unemployed.
4. Unemployed people are counted in the labor force.
5. The unemployment rate is the number of unemployed people as a percent of the total labor force.
6. For example, there were 7,635,000 unemployed Americans in January, and there were 159,716,000 Americans in the labor force.
7. 7,635,000 / 159,716,000 = 0.0478 or 4.8%.
8. Hence, the unemployment rate was 4.8% in January.
 My American job is moving to Mexico
Establishment survey: How many jobs?
1. Each month, the BLS contacts approximately 147,000 businesses to get detailed information about employment, hours and wages. Like the household survey, not all the same businesses are surveyed every month.
2. The calls are made during the week that includes the 12th day of the month. In February, the 12th fell on a Sunday, so the "reference week" was Feb. 13-17.
3. People who have jobs are a part of what is called the "nonfarm payroll." Farm workers are not counted.
4. You are included on the nonfarm payroll if you received pay during any part of the reference pay period. The reference pay period basically refers to the last pay cycle. A pay cycle can be the previous week or month.
5. The number of new jobs each month is the difference between the size of the nonfarm payroll in one month compared to the month before it.
6. For example, there were 145,554,000 Americans on the nonfarm payroll in January, and 145,327,000 Americans in December.
7. 145,554,000 - 145,327,000 = 227,000
8. Hence, there were 227,000 jobs added in January. (The BLS looks back at the data it collected for the prior two months and revises the jobs figures if more comprehensive numbers show an increase or decline in hiring).
-- Jordan Malter contributed reporting to this article.
Under a program called the Conrad 30 J-1 visa waiver, many international medical students have the option to stay in the country post-residency for three years as long as they work in a rural or urban community where there is a doctor shortage. Many of these communities are home to low-income, often uninsured, populations.
For these graduating physicians, the Conrad 30 program -- which waives the requirement that medical school graduates return to their home country for two years before applying for an H-1B visa -- serves as a pathway toward obtaining an H-1B work visa more quickly.
But the timing can be tricky.
Medical residents obtain a Conrad 30 visa waiver from the state they will be working in during the fall or winter of their final year of residency. Then the waiver is sent to the State Department for approval -- a process that can take several weeks. Once the waiver is approved and secured, the resident's new employer then applies for expedited processing of an H-1B on their behalf.
All of this must occur in a matter of months, before their residency is over in June and their student visas expire. After that, the newly trained physicians have a grace period of 30 days to remain in the country.
But now the temporary ban on expedited processing could draw out the process by several months, leaving the hundreds of medical residents who apply for visa waivers uncertain about whether they will be able to obtain their H-1B in time to start their jobs.
 Visa crackdown puts these rural doctors at risk
"In states like Oklahoma, foreign physicians are being brought in through the Conrad 30 J-1 visa waiver and other programs because there is a very high need for them," said Jana Castleberry, manager of primary care and rural health workforce development with Oklahoma's Department of Health.
Castleberry noted that acute physician shortages in the state are across the board, from primary care to specialists and particularly in psychiatry.
"With this sudden H-1B stop order we are in danger of losing the opportunity to retain physicians who've trained in the U.S. in states struggling to hire doctors," she said.
Kirti Dadwal is one of them.
Originally from India, Dadwal is nearing the end of her four-year psychiatry residency at the University of Oklahoma's College of Medicine. She has been offered a position as a psychiatrist by AllianceHealth Midwest, a 75-bed hospital in Oklahoma City, serving mostly adult and geriatric patients.
She's slated to begin working at AllianceHealth in July, but she's waiting for the State Department to approve her visa waiver before her new employer can file for an H-1B visa on her behalf.
But time is getting tight and Dadwal isn't optimistic that her waiver will get approved before April 3. That would mean AllianceHealth won't be able to file for fast-track processing for her H-1B visa. By default, her application will then undergo the protracted regular processing.
"I'm not sure how long the hospital will hold the job for me," she said.
Without a valid visa, she can't work, she can't travel and she won't even have a valid driver's license. Dadwal, who has a six-month old son, is anxious.
"Professionally and personally, everything is unstable for me now," she said. "I've worked so hard for four years and was looking forward to being a practicing physician."
AllianceHealth Midwest declined to comment for this story.
 Visa ban could make doctor shortage in rural America even worse
Dadwal's situation mirrors that of potentially hundreds of Conrad 30 J-1 Visa Waiver medical residents.
They simply can't start their jobs without an H-1B visa.
Almatmed Abdelsalam, who's from Benghazi, Libya, has been hired to start as a physician in a hospital in Macon, Georgia, after his residency program at the University of Central Florida's College of Medicine ends in July. His employer MagnaCare provides physicians for three hospitals in the Macon area, which is also experiencing a doctor shortage.
Like Dadwal, he has yet to receive the State Department approvals he needs before MagnaCare can file for the expedited H-1B visa.
"I'm a little scared to think I will not get it before the April 3 deadline," he said. "I know that my employer is still looking for physicians and I think they'll wait for me since I signed an [employment] contract."
Abdelsalam said he is still looking at houses to relocate himself, his wife and their two young kids over the summer. It's "a leap of faith," he said.
The order issuing the temporary halt on fast track processing said it will allow for premium processing in certain cases, such as an emergency, humanitarian grounds or if the visa is for employment that is in the national interest.
Abdelsalam said he might try to make the case that his employment is in the national interest. "I don't know if it will work, but we will try."
The United States Citizenship and Immigration Services agency said it will review such requests on a case-by-case basis. The agency did not specifically state whether H-1B visas for doctors would be considered in the national interest. The Department of Homeland Security, which handles H-1B processing, did not respond to a CNNMoney request for comment.
 What Trump's latest H-1B move means for workers and business
The expedited H-1B stop order is also causing a lot of concern at one large teaching hospital in south central U.S. that regularly hires foreign physicians to fill vacancies in urgent care specialties.
The hospital has hired 12 foreign physicians to start on July 1 and its administration is now concerned that it will have to wait months to get the approvals for the physicians to start.
"It's not like we have someone else waiting in the wings. There are no second options," said a hospital administrator in charge of handling international staff and faculty who requested that he not be named.
The Office for Budget Responsibility predicts that only £380 million ($462 million) in new tax funds will flow into government coffers as a result of the sugar cuts.
U.K. Treasury chief Philip Hammond said Wednesday that he was "delighted" to report that the government expected less revenue, acknowledging that such a feeling was unusual for a finance minister.
"Producers are already reformulating sugar out of their drinks, which means a lower revenue forecast for this tax," Hammond said.
Drinks with total sugar content above five grams per 100 milliliters will be subject to a tax of £0.18 ($0.22) per liter under the rules, while the rate for drinks with more than eight grams will be £0.24 ($0.29) per liter.
The idea is that less sugar consumption will lead to better health outcomes -- especially for children.
Soda and drink producers are responding to the new rules.
In November, Lucozade Ribena Suntory said it will cut 50% of the added sugar in its products by July 2017, bringing all of its drinks below the five gram sugar tax threshold.
 New 'hollow' sugar could cut calories in chocolate
Coca-Cola (KO) has also stepped up its efforts, saying in October that it has over 200 reformulation initiatives underway globally to reduce added sugar.
It said it has already cut sugar and calories in brands such as Sprite and Fanta by 30% in the U.K.
PepsiCo (PEP) -- which also owns brands including Gatorade and Tropicana -- is also cutting the sweet stuff. It said two-thirds of its single serving drinks will have 100 or fewer calories by 2025.
 Pepsi gets aggressive on cutting sugar
The government is hoping the tax will help cut down childhood obesity rates in the U.K., which are amongst the highest in developed world. One in five English children is obese by the time they leave primary school, the government said.
Sugar plays a major role in childhood obesity, with sugary drinks being the single biggest source of dietary sugar for children and teenagers in the U.K.
"As shown by the downgrading of the Treasury's revenue expectations, the sugar levy is already working to spur reformulation of sugary drinks by manufacturers," said Shirley Cramer, the chief executive of the Royal Society for Public Health.
"We've got a surplus situation. We just have too much crude oil," said Darin Newsom, senior commodities analyst at DTN.
Crude closed at $49.28 a barrel on Thursday, the fourth decline in a row and the lowest settle since November 29. Oil prices are now down 9% in March alone.
The oil weakness is rattling Wall Street a bit, just as the bull market in stocks celebrates its eighth anniversary. Energy stocks such as Halliburton (HAL) and Transocean (RIG) slid more than 2% apiece on Thursday after both slumped 3% the day before. The Energy Select Sector SPDR ETF (XLE) that tracks the energy industry is now down 8% this year.
"The word on everyone's lips is oil," Michael Block, chief market strategist at Rhino Trading, wrote in a note. He called the $50 level that crude slipped below a "crucial point."
 America poised for record oil output
The oil selloff was sparked by further evidence that the U.S. continues to face a supply glut. Crude stockpiles soared by 8.2 million barrels last week, according to government statistics. It was four times as large as the inventory increase anticipated, and left stockpiles further in record territory.
More concerning to oil bulls, the supply glut is being driven lately by OPEC, the cartel that reversed strategies last year by supporting the market with an agreement to pump less crude.
U.S. imports of Saudi Arabian oil surged by 145,000 barrels per day last week to the highest level since last August, according to S&P Global Platts.
The rush of Saudi oil "may have folks questioning the efficacy of their production cuts," Anthony Starkey, manager of energy analysis at Platts Analytics, wrote in a report.
Three other OPEC nations -- Iraq, Kuwait and Ecuador -- ramped up their shipments to the U.S. by 730,000 barrels per day last week.
 Rex Tillerson may have left Exxon at the right time
Oil bulls won't get any help from the resurgent U.S. shale oil boom either. The situation is looking much brighter for the American oil industry, especially frackers in the Permian basin of Texas and New Mexico. Activity in this shale hotbed has come back to life in recent months and it's expected to lead a rebound in U.S. output this year, whether the market needs more oil, or not.
"The markets are getting impatient waiting to see any impact on U.S. crude inventories," Michael Wittner, global head of oil research at Societe Generale, wrote in a report.
Some have been taken aback by a new forecast from the U.S. Energy Information Administration this week predicting the domestic oil production could rise to an all-time high of 9.7 million barrels per day next year.
 Here comes the next wave of oil
That's great news for laid-off oil workers and American drivers worried about gasoline prices. But it won't do much to solve the oil glut.
U.S. production "could go pretty high," shale billionaire Harold Hamm said at the CERAWeek conference in Houston this week, according to Bloomberg.
"But it's going to have to be done in a measured way, or else we kill the market," Hamm said.
RadioShack just went bankrupt. Again.
And Sears (SHLD) continues to hemorrhage red ink.
The story is the same for these and other struggling chains like Macy's (M), JCPenney (JCP), Barnes & Noble (BKS), Victoria's Secret owner L Brands (LB) and Target (TGT).
Shoppers are more inclined to click and order than visit bricks and mortar.
Amazon (AMZN, Tech30), of course, is the biggest beneficiary of this trend. Its stock is up almost 15% this year and is trading near an all-time high. The company is worth nearly $410 billion -- almost double the market value of Walmart (WMT).
So, to quote King George III in Hamilton: What comes next? Many retailers may be forced to shut even more stores and bulk up on their online commerce sites and mobile apps.
 Target has terrible holiday and warns of awful 2017
The head of Urban Outfitters (URBN) had a blunt, and scary, assessment of the retail situation earlier this week.
During a conference call with analysts on Tuesday, CEO Richard Hayne compared the state of retail to the housing glut last decade that helped bring about the Great Recession.
"Retail square feet per capita in the United States is more than six times that of Europe or Japan. And this doesn't count digital commerce," Hayne said. "Our industry, not unlike the housing industry, saw too much square footage capacity added in the 1990s and early 2000s."
"Thousands of new doors opened and rents soared. This created a bubble, and like housing, that bubble has now burst," he added. "We are seeing the results: doors shuttering and rents retreating. This trend will continue for the foreseeable future and may even accelerate."
It already is accelerating.
Staples (SPLS) announced more store closures on Thursday. It joins a growing list of big retailers that are shutting stores, which includes both Sears and its subsidiary Kmart, Macy's, JCPenney and Abercrombie & Fitch (ANF).
Electronics retailer hhgregg is closing many stores too after filing for bankruptcy this week. Wet Seal, American Apparel, Sports Authority and The Limited are closing all their stores after bankruptcy filings.
 Move over, Amazon: Here comes Walmart
Of course, not all retailers are bowled over by Amazon.
Walmart, thanks in part to its purchase of e-commerce startup Jet last year, is starting to gain momentum in digital commerce.
Shares of Best Buy (BBY) and Costco (COST) are both up this year as well, despite increased competition from both Amazon and Walmart.
Home Depot (HD) and Lowe's (LOW) are holding up nicely too. And it sort of makes sense. Builders are probably more inclined to buy plywood and other supplies at a big store than online.
Children's Place (PLCE) was also a retail standout, reporting results earlier this week that topped forecasts. The stock surged nearly 20% on the news.
And there are several mall-based apparel chains that are still doing quite well, most notably fast fashion stalwarts H&M, Zara and Forever 21.
 Here's why Amazon could buy a big retail chain
But the dominance of Amazon is clearly taking its toll on the weakest links of the retail industry.
So don't be surprised to see even more store closures and bankruptcies.
Moody's said in a report this week that Sears, J. Crew, Payless and Gymboree were among 19 retailers that it considers to be financially distressed.
It'll be hosted by Carter, James' longtime friend who founded Uninterrupted with James. It will air on the websites of both Uninterrupted and Chase.
 How Victor Cruz spends his money
The first episode featuring Golden State Warriors forward Draymond Green goes live on Thursday.
In his first year in the NBA, Green had a salary of $850,000 and decided to learn how to manage that money himself.
"I didn't hire a financial adviser," Green said. "I said I'm gonna do this on my own. I want to learn how to pay bills. I want to learn how money works."
Green now has a team to help him, but he's cognizant about saving because he doesn't "ever wanna go back" to where he came from.
"As much as my mom and my dad did to make sure I had a great life and to make sure every need that I had was met -- times were still hard," Green said.
But that doesn't mean he hasn't wasted money along the way -- like the time he spent $21,000 at a nightclub.
"I had a blast for sure. I could've had a blast for $4,000 though," Green said. "I woke up the next day hot like 'What?!' I mean that's $21,000 I can never get back. ... I still remember. I remember that bill."
 LeBron, Serena and other Nike stars champion 'Equality'
Carter, who is also the CEO of Uninterrupted, said the show gives a different take from the usual story of athletes mismanaging their money.
"You never hear the stories behind the decision making," Carter said. "Their lives are literally flipped in that they make the most money they're most likely ever going to make in their lives at a very young age, while they're still learning how to manage everything that comes with a very new lifestyle."
Ben Clammer, an executive at JPMorgan Chase who works with many pro athletes, said that the best advice he has for them is to "take that same level of discipline and focus" they apply to their sport and apply it to their money.
"You must know the details -- how much of your contract is guaranteed; what will be left after taxes and commissions -- it's a big mistake to overlook the 'fine print,'" Clammer said. "Maintain the mindset that your current contract will be your last, because you don't know what might happen tomorrow."
The series will also dispel the notion that athletes don't have to worry about money because they have such large contracts, according to Kristin Lemkau, chief marketing officer for JPMorgan Chase.
"The fact is, everyone wants to make the most of their money," she said.
The retailer tried to merge with rival Office Depot (ODP), but that deal was blocked by the Federal Trade Commission a year ago.
 RadioShack files for bankruptcy - again
The store closings were partly responsible for the drop in sales, but the company also suffered a 1% sales decline at stores open at least a year.
Traditional brick-and-mortar stores have been under pressure for some time due to greater online competition from online outfits such as Amazon (AMZN, Tech30). Hundreds of store closings have been announced so far this year.
 Rise of Amazon leaves even more retailers in intensive care
On Wednesday evening RadioShack filed for bankruptcy for the second time in two years, announcing it would close 200 of its 1,500 stores and placing the future of the remaining stores in doubt.
In addition, Sears Holdings (SHLD) has announced plans to close 150 Sears and Kmart stores, JCPenney (JCP) said it will close 140 stores and Macy's (M) announced it is closing 68 stores and cutting 10,000 jobs. The Limited also announced in January it would close its remaining stores.
AIG (AIG) is one of many financial firms to have benefited from free trade in the EU. From its office in the U.K., it was able to operate across the EU's unified trading market.
Brexit, however, is likely to put a stop to frictionless trade between Britain and its biggest export market. AIG said it must prepare for the worst.
"This is a decisive move that ensures AIG is positioned for whatever form the U.K.'s exit from the EU ultimately takes," said AIG Europe's CEO Anthony Baldwin. "We are ensuring that our clients and partners experience no disruption from the U.K.'s EU exit."
AIG also announced Thursday that CEO Peter Hancock, who's been leading the firm since late 2014, would resign after his turnaround plan faltered.
Nearly 9% of the insurer's revenue comes from the U.K. and Europe.
AIG is the second high-profile firm to publicly announce plans to open an EU-based office due to Brexit uncertainty. Insurance heavyweight Lloyd's of London announced similar plans in December.
 Lloyd's of London bans boozy lunches
HSBC (HSBC) and UBS (UBS) executives have also warned they could move 1,000 employees each to Europe to continue serving the EU market.
British Prime Minister Theresa May is expected to formally trigger Brexit talks with the EU in the next few weeks. Negotiations are expected to take two years and then the U.K. will be cut loose.
 GOP tries to discredit agency reviewing its health care bill
It's true that CBO thought more people would flock to the Obamacare exchanges.
When the law originally passed in 2010, it estimated 21 million would gain coverage through them in 2016. Three years later, just before the exchanges opened, the agency upped the figure to 22 million.
That didn't happen. About 10.4 million were actually enrolled last year, according to the Department of Health & Human Services data.
To be sure, the exchanges did not turn out to be as vibrant as expected. But their enrollment was also dampened because fewer employers stopped offering coverage than the CBO originally thought, said Marc Goldwein, senior vice president at the Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget. This would have sent more people looking for policies on the exchanges.
And, more Americans turned out to be eligible for Medicaid, further reducing the number of folks buying policies on the exchanges.
However, the agency was much closer to the mark on Obamacare's overall impact on coverage. In its original 2010 estimate, CBO thought the insured rate for non-elderly adults would rise to 92% in 2016. It tempered that view somewhat in 2013, after the Supreme Court ruled that expanding Medicaid was optional for states. The revised forecast was that 89% would have coverage in 2016.
It turns out that 89.7% of Americans under age 65 had insurance last year, according to Centers for Disease Control and Prevention data. That's up from 83.4% in 2013, before the exchanges opened and Medicaid expansion officially began. (A few states launched the program earlier.)
 Millions could lose insurance under GOP Obamacare repeal bill, S&P reports
"Where people get coverage matters, but what's most important is that they are covered at all," said Matt Fiedler, a Brookings Institution fellow who served as chief economist at the White House Council of Economic Advisers in the Obama administration.
Because there are fewer people on the exchanges, CBO overestimated how much the law's coverage provisions would cost overall. Originally, it expected the net cost would be $132 billion in 2016. However, it lowered that estimate to $110 billion in the estimate it released last year.
The agency's review of the Republican bill's impact on coverage is expected to be ugly. But it's impossible to expect the CBO to hit the number exactly, Goldwein said. Its projection is in the center of a range of potential outcomes.
Mostly importantly, the agency has a long history of credibility and neutrality, he said.
"It's not novel to beat up on the refs," Goldwein said. "We can feel confident that whatever they put forward will represent their best, unbiased estimate."
BlackRock (BLK), which manages more than $5 trillion in assets, said in January that Osborne would be joining the firm.
Osborne, who was chancellor of the exchequer under former Prime Minister David Cameron, was hired to advise on European politics and policy, economic reforms in China and investment trends that affect retirement planning.
He's the latest in a series of prominent British politicians to join major banks and investment firms.
Alistair Darling, who preceded Osborne at the Treasury, serves on Morgan Stanley's (MS) board of directors. William Hague, a former foreign minister, joined Citigroup (C) earlier this year. Former Prime Minister Gordon Brown is on the global advisory board at bond giant Pimco.
The recent hires are following in the footsteps of former Prime Minister Tony Blair. Less than six months after leaving office in 2007, he was hired by JPMorgan (JPM) to advise CEO Jamie Dimon on global politics.
The revolving door between government and banks also swings elsewhere in Europe. Former European Commission President Jose Manuel Barroso was hired by Goldman Sachs (GS) last year to advise the bank on issues including the U.K.'s withdrawal from the EU.
 Government builds war chest for Brexit uncertainty to come
Osborne's parliamentary filing shows that he's also earned a healthy income through paid speeches, most of which have been arranged by the Washington Speakers' Bureau.
He was paid £85,000 ($104,000) by Citi for two speeches delivered on Nov. 17. He was paid £34,000 ($41,500) for a speech at BlackRock the same month.
The best part is that regular Americans are partaking of this latest run up by buying stocks. This is in sharp contrast to earlier years, when mom-and-pop investors barely benefited during most of the market upswing that began in March 2009 during the Great Recession.
"The mood today versus eight years ago is quite dramatic. It's polar-opposite. Back then, nobody wanted to buy stocks," said Joe Quinlan, chief investment strategist at U.S. Trust.
Today's market is on fire, if not too hot. Hopes for "massive" tax cuts and steady economic growth have lifted stocks to new heights. CNNMoney's Fear & Greed Index even recently tipped into "extreme greed" mode before returning to simply "greed."
Trump has repeatedly bragged about the market's gains and even mentioned it in his big speech to Congress last month.
Individual investors, many of whom sat out much of the bull market, are feeling more confident these days.
Global equity ETFs, which are looked at as a proxy for retail investors, have witnessed a stunning $91.5 billion of inflows so far this year, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Investors poured $8 billion into the popular SPDR S&P 500 ETF the day after Trump's speech alone. That was the biggest burst of buying since December 2014, State Street Global Investors said.
"You are starting to see the return of the retail investor, but nothing that suggests we're near a peak," said Quinlan.
 Will Trump cheer or jeer if Fed raises rates?
But could Americans be getting into the market too late? After all, this bull market in stocks is the second-oldest in history.
"Bull markets don't die of old age, they die of fright," Sam Stovall, chief investment strategist at CFRA Research, wrote in a report.
But there are reasons investors could face the specter of fright once again. For instance, stocks have become a lot more expensive in recent months.
Since the Trump rally has been mostly fueled by hopes of tax cuts and other policy changes, not improving fundamentals, valuations have climbed uncomfortably high. The S&P 500 is trading at 17.9 times projected earnings, the richest multiple since 2004, according to FactSet.
"Something needs to change. There's no question about that," said JJ Kinahan, chief market strategist at TD Ameritrade.
Another way to look at the market makes it look even more expensive. Stovall said the S&P 500 is trading at 25 times trailing 12-month earnings. That's makes this the second-most expensive bull market, second only to when the tech bubble burst in early 2000.
"Investors should now be on the lookout for a FOMO (fear of missing out) mindset that could signal overconfidence and sound the final lap of this bull market," Stovall wrote.
Even Carl Icahn, one of Trump's earliest supporters on Wall Street, is getting cautious about the Trump rally.
"I am concerned at this point that the market has run ahead of itself," Icahn told CNNMoney in a phone interview this week.
 Trump adviser Carl Icahn bets against Trump rally
Clearly, the enormous post-election rally raises the bar for Trump to deliver the "massive" tax cuts he's promised.
Investors have put a lot of faith that Trump and his team will be able to pull off tax cuts in speedy fashion. That's despite the fact that Obamacare is being tackled first, and that's proving to be very complicated.
"It's becoming more difficult to see how we could get through this year without a pullback in markets given that we haven't seen tax reform or a stimulus package delivered yet," said Shannon Saccocia, head of asset allocation and portfolio strategy at Boston Private.
Kinahan said there's "so much optimism" about Trump's promised tax cuts that it "could be the thing that unwinds things."
Even if Trump delivers, the market could retreat as investors "sell the news."
 Trump rally: A lot has to go right here
So will the bull market live to celebrate its ninth birthday?
Much will depend on whether market valuations move back into reasonable levels, thanks to improved corporate profits and potential tax cuts.
As always, there's the risk of an unforeseen market or geopolitical event like a clash with North Korea that derails stocks.
Still, most experts are predicting the bull market will still be alive and kicking come March 2018.
"Despite its age and rich valuation," Stovall wrote, "this bull market does not appear to us to be ready to throw in the towel."
RadioShack tried to keep the brand going after its first bankruptcy by teaming with wireless provider Sprint (S). The co-branded stores had Sprint mini-stores inside. RadioShack cut operating expenses by about a quarter, but it wasn't enough to turn the business around.
CEO Dene Rogers said weak mobile phone sales and other factors left Chapter 11 bankruptcy as the "best path forward." Chapter 11 allows a company to restructure and remain in business, but it does not guarantee a company will survive.
Sprint said that it has already reached an agreement with RadioShack to convert several hundred stores into Sprint-owned stores, and that it will be able to provide jobs at other locations for any Sprint employees working at a store that closes. It said that RadioShack's bankruptcy will not have a material impact on its own financial results.
 JCPenney to close up to 140 more stores
RadioShack once had more than 5,000 stores in the United States. It bragged that there was a store within five miles of where 90% of the population lived or worked. But in an age of growing competition from online retailers such as Amazon (AMZN, Tech30), traditional brick-and-mortar stores are in trouble.
Retailers have announced plans for hundreds of store closings just this year. On Thursday morning, the office supply store Staples (SPLS) announced it was closing 70 more stores, or about 4.5% of its total, in the face of a loss and declining sales.
 Sears and Kmart closing 150 stores
The electronics field has been particularly hard hit. Circuit City filed for bankruptcy in 2008 and then went out of business. Federal statistics show that almost 6,000 electronics and appliance stores have closed in the United States in the past decade, or more than one in 10.
"The phenomenal stock market rally has displayed some signs of exhaustion this week with investors on high alert ahead of the looming European Central Bank meeting and [U.S. jobs report] this Friday," said Lukman Otunuga, a research analyst at FXTM.
U.S. stock futures were holding steady following three consecutive days of declines.
European markets were mixed in early trading. Most Asian markets ended the day with losses.
2. Watching Europe's central bank: The European Central Bank will issue a decision on interest rates at 7:45 a.m. ET, but no major policy changes are expected.
Investors will be looking for clues about future policy when ECB president Mario Draghi holds a press conference at 8:30 a.m. ET.
Before the Bell newsletter: Key market news. In your inbox. Subscribe now!
3. Slippery oil: Crude oil futures were off roughly 2% on Thursday as the market reacted to a report released Wednesday that showed a large increase in U.S. crude inventories.
Crude is currently trading around $49 per barrel, down about 10% from a recent peak in February.
4. Market movers -- Tailored Brands, Toshiba: Dismal earnings from the parent company of Men's Wearhouse are scaring the pants off investors. Tailored Brands (TLRD) shares plummeted as much as 27% after hours after the firm posted fourth quarter results.
Like many brick-and-mortar retailers, Tailored Brands has been hit by online shopping and declining foot traffic at malls.
Shares in Toshiba (TOSYY) dropped by 7.2% Thursday following reports that its nuclear business unit is considering filing for bankruptcy. The Japanese company reported a $6.3 billion writedown last month because of unexpected losses at the troubled business.
5. Earning: Signet Jewelers (SIG) and Staples (SPLS) are set to release earnings before the open Thursday.
Signet, which owns the Kay and Jared jewelry chains, was rocked last week by allegations of rampant sexual harassment and discrimination against female employees.
Download CNN MoneyStream for up-to-the-minute market data and news
6. Coming this week:
Thursday - Geneva International Motor Show officially begins Friday - Monthly U.S. jobs report released
Samsung and the Lee family have faced criminal charges and allegations of corruption in the past. But Lee, who is also known as Jay Y. Lee, is the first Samsung boss to be arrested and put in jail ahead of a trial.
 South Korea's long history of light sentences for business leaders
Sitting atop South Korea's largest conglomerate, the Lee family is widely viewed as corporate royalty. But that's an awkward place to be right now following public anger stirred up by the corruption scandal that has engulfed Samsung, other big conglomerates and top politicians.
Lee's father, Samsung Group Chairman Lee Kun-hee, was twice convicted of white collar crime, but avoided jail time thanks to a couple of presidential pardons. He is now ailing after a heart attack in 2014.
The younger Lee, who has been carefully positioned as the heir, may not receive such favorable treatment. President Park Geun-Hye is embroiled in the same political corruption scandal that landed Lee in jail. Four other Samsung executives have also been charged with bribery and other crimes.
Prosecutors allege that Lee, 48, pledged tens of millions of dollars to win favor with Park and secure government support for a merger that helped tighten his grip on Samsung.
Business as usual?
So far, Lee's legal woes have not slowed down Samsung Electronics (SSNLF), the crown jewel in his family's business empire. Shares in the company have shrugged off Lee's arrest last month, hitting record highs this week.
The company recently showed off new gadgets, like tablets and a virtual reality viewer. And it will unveil its latest smartphone later this month, a chance to move closer to putting the debacle over its fire-prone Note 7 behind it.
But Lee, vice chairman of Samsung Electronics, was never involved in the company's day-to-day operations.

Like his father and grandfather before him, Lee is responsible for the sprawling company's overarching vision. If he ends up in prison, Samsung, which is sitting on a large pile of cash, could be stuck in a holding pattern for big decisions.
"It's very hard to delegate a multimillion dollar investment or strategy if you're in jail," said Tony Michell, managing director of Korea Associates Business Consultancy in Seoul.
If found guilty of embezzlement alone, Lee would face a minimum of five years in prison.
In the short term, the lights will stay on and it will be business as usual at Samsung.
"They've got a leadership team in place, a lot of decision making can still happen for a while, regardless of whether he's behind bars or not," said Bryan Ma, an analyst with research firm IDC.
Family ties
If Lee serves time, his family will likely retain its grip on the Samsung empire with relatively little infighting.
"I don't think there will be a coup d'etat," said Geoffrey Cain, author of a forthcoming book on Samsung.
Lee's sister, Lee Boo-jin, runs Samsung's Hotel Shilla affiliate, one of the world's biggest duty free retailers. South Korean media often call her "Little Lee Kun-hee," because she has a similar leadership style to her father.
She could be a real candidate to take on a bigger role in the Samsung empire if her brother goes to prison, but she would probably still take direction from him.
.@Sherisse joins us with interesting color from the rare public grilling of SK business execs in parliament https://t.co/frwQS6DaMS

It is highly unlikely Lee will be replaced as Samsung's heir apparent, experts say. The Lee family and top Samsung officials have spent years paving the way for a father to son succession at Samsung Group.
"What is happening now is not something they expected," Cain said. "But after having spent two decades trying to get Jay Lee in his position, I am sure they will do everything in their power to make sure he gets to that position."
"We are disappointed to learn that the OutVets, who have proudly served this country, have been denied entry," a spokesperson for the company said in a statement. "We are re-evaluating our participation in this event."
WBZ in Boston reported that Stop & Shop also withdrew its sponsorship Wednesday. The grocery chain could not be immediately reached for comment.
In previous years, the parade prohibited sexual orientation from being displayed, so LGBTQ groups couldn't march openly.
Eventually the rule changed and OutVets has marched in the Boston parade for the past two years.
 Bud Light's #UpForWhatever slogan causes social media uproar
 Apple, Microsoft, PayPal join legal fight for transgender rights
In 2015, OutVets had a prime spot and marched alongside a congressman and the Massachusetts Secretary of Veterans' Affairs. But last year, OutVets was placed at the rear of the parade -- "away from every other veterans' organization," according to a statement on the group's Facebook page.
Many OutVets members "objected to this treatment and wanted to stand aside in protest." But in the end, the group marched and chose to raise its objections with the organizers ahead of this year's parade.
"We agreed that as an organization we were not there for our own benefit, but to honor those who had served and are still serving our country. So, we marched. We marched proudly," the statement said.
OutVets said the Allied War Veterans Council of South Boston, which organizes the parade, didn't give a clear reason for excluding the group.

"Given the tenor of the council's deliberations, one can assume it's because we are LGBTQ," the statement said.
The Allied War Veterans Council of South Boston did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
Boston Mayor Marty Walsh also responded to the news that OutVets had been excluded. He said he would not march until they were invited back.
Anheuser-Busch isn't the first beer company to take a stand for LGBTQ inclusion in St. Patrick's Day parades.
In 2014, Sam Adams pulled its sponsorship of Boston's parade because LGBTQ groups couldn't march openly. That same year, Guinness and Heineken pulled out of New York City's parade for the same reason.
Like most brick-and-mortar retailers, Tailored Brands has been hit by online shopping and declining foot traffic at malls. The rise of casualwear also poses a challenge.
The company shuttered 233 stores in the past year.
The Jos. A. Bank brand, which Men's Wearhouse bought in 2014, remained a drag. Sales at those stores were down 4.7% last quarter. They've taken a hit ever since it dropped its Buy-One-Get-Three suit sale.
A 2015 deal with Macy's to rent tuxedos out of its department stores was also a bust. The agreement cost Tailored Brands $14 million in 2016, and the company anticipates losses could jump to $20 million next year.
"During 2016, our Macy's tuxedo business did not ramp as expected," Ewert said. "We are actively engaged in discussions with Macy's to restructure our agreement."
The company said it expects Men's Wearhouse sales will continue to drop in 2017, though it's hoping to turn around Jos. A. Bank.
That's because the largest portion of the working population, people born in the U.S. to parents who were also born here, is shrinking. According to Pew, this segment of the workforce is expected to fall from 128.3 million people in 2015 to 120.1 million by 2035. U.S.-born workers will go from accounting for 74% of the workforce to just 66% of it.
 In Arizona, the mandated use of E-Verify has had mixed results
That's predominantly due to the fact that Baby Boomers are aging out of the workforce; the youngest of them will turn 65 in 2030. Pew also cited the low U.S. birth rate as a factor.
The number of working age immigrants in the U.S. is also projected to decline. Some will turn 65 and retire, while others are projected to leave the country or die, Pew said.

However, those declines will be offset by the addition of 13.5 million U.S.-born adults with immigrant parents and 4.6 million new immigrant arrivals.
Even with these new additions, the growth rate of working-age adults will be substantially slower than in the past, according to Jeffrey Passel, a senior demographer at Pew Research Center and one of the report's authors. He added that the growth is the slowest its been in 50 years.
 From shelter to startup: One Egyptian immigrant's success story
The immigration issue has been front and center as the Trump administration moves to deport undocumented immigrants with criminal records and to restrict legal immigration.
During a speech before Congress last week, Trump floated the idea of changing the U.S. immigration system from one based on family reunification to a merit-based system that prioritizes letting highly skilled workers into the country.
"It is a basic principle that those seeking to enter a country ought to be able to support themselves financially," Trump said during his speech. "Yet, in America, we do not enforce this rule, straining the very public resources that our poorest citizens rely upon."
 Trump's merit-based immigration system: Who would get in?
But Passel stressed that any implication that family-based immigrants don't find work and weigh on the U.S. economy is wrong. "It's not the case that family-based immigrants don't work and that skills-based immigrants do work," Passel said.
The big investment firm Fidelity says that female investors outperformed males last year by 0.3%. In fact, Fidelity found that females outdid men in the past decade.
Data from Openfolio, an investment tracking app, also found the same trend. Women have topped men every year for the past three years since Openfolio began tracking results.
"Women are doing better than men and with a lot less risk," says Kathy Murphy, president of personal investing at Fidelity.
Men have a bad tendency to buy and sell stocks too often. Very few people have mastered the art of timing the market. So too much trading eats into the guys' returns.
 What worries investing guru Jack Bogle right now
2017: The year of 'financial feminism'
Terrance Odean, a professor at Berkeley's Haas School of Business, who has spent his career studying investor trends, found that men traded 45% more than women in the 1990s. He blamed it on male overconfidence.
Women, in contrast, tend to be "buy and hold" investors. It's exactly the advice famous money gurus like Warren Buffett and Jack Bogle give people: Put your money into cheap index funds and then don't touch it for years -- or decades.
"Women have long-term goals, and they stick with the plan," says Murphy. They focus on saving and investing for retirement or a kid's college fund, not on outsmarting the market.
But here's where women still mess up: They tend to be great savers, but they are often fearful of the stock market. They lack confidence about investing, despite a growing body of evidence that women are gifted at it.
Former Wall Street power woman Sallie Krawcheck is on a mission to empower women to be financially savvy. She's declared 2017 the "year of financial feminism."
"We women will not be fully equal with men until we are financially equal with men," Krawcheck told CNN's Maggie Lake at the New York Stock Exchange. Krawcheck recently launched Ellevest, a financial firm geared entirely toward women. Ellevest's tagline is "Invest like a woman, because money is power."
 Why a defiant girl is staring down the Wall Street bull
Why women can't rely on men to handle money
Nearly 90% of women are going to have to take sole control over their finances at some point in their lives, notes Kate Warne an investment strategist at Edward Jones. Women are getting married later, divorcing more and frequently outliving their spouses. They can't rely on men to handle the money.
"Whether you're afraid or not, investing is something you need to learn how to do," says Warne.
She started reading investment advice books after college when she landed her first job. She realized she liked it so much, she changed careers and became an investment adviser.
Women don't beat men by a huge amount -- Openfolio found women outperformed men by about 0.2% last year -- but that's still a "win," and can really add up over time if women keep their money in the market for decades.
The U.S. oil comeback is being led by the Permian Basin, a hotbed of shale drilling in Texas and New Mexico. The Permian is so rich in shale oil that frackers can profitably drill even in today's modest prices in the low $50-a-barrel range.
"Shale has proven to be remarkably resilient. The key is that any dollar invested today is double as efficient as it was two years ago," said Tamar Essner, energy director of Nasdaq Advisory Services.
The optimism stands in stark contrast with the fears that rippled through the U.S. oil industry in late 2014. Back then, OPEC decided to keep pumping all-out despite the supply glut created in part by the U.S. oil boom that sent oil prices spiraling lower.
OPEC's strategy appeared aimed at drowning American frackers by dropping prices far too low for them to survive on. Many worried about a steep decline in U.S. output.
 Here comes the next wave of the U.S. oil boom
OPEC's price war did spark a wave of bankruptcies, painful job cuts and a dip in U.S. oil production as crude plummeted to as low as $26 a barrel. Domestic output peaked at an impressive 9.6 million barrels per day in April 2015.
But the oil boom didn't collapse completely. U.S. oil output fell only a little, bottoming out at 8.7 million barrels in July 2016 and has since stabilized. Drilling has gathered steam in recent months as oil prices rebounded after OPEC abandoned its previous strategy by agreeing to cut production along with non-OPEC nations like Russia.
Now, the EIA has significantly ramped up its U.S. forecasts, predicting daily domestic output of 9.2 million barrels for this year and then 9.7 million barrels in 2018.
That's up dramatically from a previous estimate in November for 2018 production to rise to 8.9 million barrels.
So why the change?
All eyes are on the frenzy of shale activity in the Permian region. Frackers have scrambled to add rigs in the Permian. The rig count has nearly tripled from a low of 132 last April to 308 now.
"We believe shale production is set to reestablish itself for growth" that could be "fairly dramatic," said Anthony Starkey, energy analysis manager at Bentek Energy, a division of Platts.
All of this oil flowing out of Texas and other shale regions could throw a wrench in OPEC's plans to bring the oversupplied oil markets into balance and the cartel's ability to negotiate more production cuts later this year.
The EIA also cited changes to its forecasting model that better account for how U.S. rigs have become vastly more efficient.
Those efficiency gains have been critical. Lower prices, better technology and improved balance sheets have allowed U.S. shale companies to do more with less.
"Thanks to these advancements, we can still grow, even in this lower-price environment," said Essner.
She cautioned that while the "amazing" improvements in technology and operations are sustainable, U.S. production could be limited if servicing and labor costs rise too quickly.
 Exxon plays catch-up after missing U.S. shale boom
There's good news for American drivers -- the EIA doesn't think oil prices will rise much above the current level of $53 a barrel. The agency predicted an average price of just $53.49 a barrel this year and $56.18 next year.
"Nobody expects prices to revisit a triple-digit handle," said Essner.
The oil industry could also get a boost from President Trump, who has promised to take a friendlier stance towards fossil fuels than former President Obama.
While the EIA didn't specifically mention Trump's energy policy in its forecast, Trump has promised to unleash the American oil boom. The president has already taken some action by moving to cut EPA regulations and advance the stalled Keystone XL and Dakota Access Pipelines.
Bogle says: "I don't think it's a bubble. I think it's a significant high valuation, but not a bubble."
He warns that returns in the next decade are likely to be very disappointing (think under 5% a year, instead of the 10% a year historical average).
Still, Bogle doesn't advise pulling your money out. It's too difficult to time the market. History has shown those who stay in, win. His own portfolio remains 50% in stocks (Vanguard funds, of course) and 50% in bonds.
 Trump adviser Carl Icahn is betting against the Trump rally
Bogle's concerns about Trump
Last month, Buffett called Bogle a "hero" of the investing world. But Bogle thinks about a lot more than stocks. These days, he's warning that some of Trump's policies are "bad for society" -- and the economy.
Bogle disagrees with Trump on restricting trade and immigration, and he is alarmed by the hate crimes and growing inequality in America.
"We're all children of immigrants. Open immigration is good for the economy," he says. "I don't mean just open the doors and let floodgates in. I do think discipline is required, but I don't think it should be based on religion."
He's calling on politicians to do something about inequality. His own life's mission has been to help "Wall Street get less, and Main Street get more."
Below are key takeaways from the Bogle interview. Read the full interivew here for more insights. Vanguard is now the second-largest investment manager in the world (behind only BlackRock). It manages $3.5 trillion worth of people's money.
 Trump's economic boom: 3 red flags
Bogle's take on the world
On how to invest: "Own American business and hold them forever at the lowest cost you can possibly hold at. It's an extraordinarily simple strategy and the mathematics are enduring."
On growth: "The economy will have difficulty growing more than 2.5% this year." (Trump has promised 4% growth).
On daily market moves: "I couldn't care less about what the market did today. If you're a long-term investor, your one big bet is that GDP will be significantly larger in 2027 than it is today. And that's that."
On stock prices: "I use a price- earnings (PE) multiple -- a good indicator of value, although it's not perfect. I get it up to 26x earnings. That's way on the high side. Long run, the norm is more like 16x earnings or 17x earnings."
On inequality: "Anything that increases the gap between rich and poor is bad for our society. It's bad for our society and bad for our economy and stock market."
On trade: "Anything that puts impediments to free international trade is also bad for our society and bad for our economy."
On being called a "hero":  "I don't consider myself a hero, but maybe, just maybe, it may take a hero [like Buffett] to know a hero. The remark has gotten a lot of attention. Nobody has written me to say I'm a jerk."
On Social Security: "I'm convinced Social Security has been -- and will continue to be -- a good investment."
On investing in index funds: "Indexing is not Marxism again, as some claim. If you're on Wall Street, you don't like the idea of indexing. But when grandma comes to you and says, "You're a stock broker, what do I do with my money?: You say: Put it in an index fund."
On why he only invests in U.S. stocks and bonds: "I'm a great believer in the U.S. Since 1993, the S&P 500 has gone up about 800%. The MSCI EAFE index of international stocks has gone up around 280%. I'm in no position to say whether the same thing will happen in the future or not. But I don't mind betting on U.S. Half of revenues and profits of U.S. companies come from abroad anyway. I'm not some island of 'American first' at all."
On the BIG risks: "If there's a nuclear war, it won't matter whether you own stocks or bonds."
Many health policy experts say that a large number of the 20 million people who gained coverage under Obamacare could be left uninsured. The S&P report aims to put a figure on the losses.
 Republicans' Obamacare replacement bill: The winners and losers
Among the provisions that would have the biggest impact on coverage is the premium hike for those in their 50s and 60s. Under the ACA, insurers could charge a 64-year-old no more than three times that of a 21-year-old. The GOP would widen that band to five-to-one.
That would likely send premiums for 64-year-olds soaring almost 30% to $13,125 a year, on average, S&P estimates. The proposed $4,000 tax credit that people in this age group would receive would only reduce the cost by 30%.
On the flip side, 21-year-olds would likely see their average premiums drop by 20% to $2,625 a year. And they would receive a $2,000 tax credit, covering 75% of the charge.
 Here's how the GOP's repeal plan sounds an awful lot like Obamacare
While this shift would boost participation among younger consumers, it would drive many older ones out of the market, S&P said. Overall, enrollment would decline between 2 million and 4 million people in 2019.
Even more people would be left uninsured because of the changes to Medicaid.
Some 11 million low-income adults have gained coverage in the 31 states and the District of Columbia under Obamacare's Medicaid expansion program. The GOP legislation calls for ending the enhanced federal funding for this program starting in 2020. Those already enrolled could stay as long as they remain continuously insured, but up to half have a lapse in coverage every year.
This would lead 4 million to 6 million people to lose coverage between 2020 and 2024 as these low-income adults fall off the rolls, S&P estimates.
 Under GOP draft of Obamacare repeal plan, a lot of people could lose coverage
Another major concern for the health care industry is replacing Obamacare's subsidies, which provide generous assistance for those lower on the income scale, with flat tax credits based on age.
These "probably wouldn't be sufficient" to keep lower-income folks enrolled, said Marilyn Tavenner, CEO of America's Health Insurance Plans, an industry group.
Two weeks ago, there was less than a 20% chance of a rate hike. And the market was only pricing in about a 30% chance last week.
What's changed? New York Federal Reserve president William Dudley made the case for a rate hike in an interview with CNN's Richard Quest last week.
 NY Fed president said Americans are more confident about economy
Dudley referred to "animal spirits" that have been unleashed since the election.
In other words, the boost in sentiment among investors, businesses and consumers due to confidence about Trump's plans to lower taxes, reduce regulations and spend more on infrastructure may make it easier for the Fed to justify raising rates.
Dudley's comments were followed by a speech from Yellen on Friday in which she said a rate increase would probably be "appropriate" if more data point to an improving economy.
The most important data point is the upcoming jobs report for February, which is due out Friday morning.
Economists are predicting that about 185,000 to 190,000 jobs were added. That's solid, albeit slightly lower than the 227,000 added in January.
Nonetheless, a number roughly in line with forecasts -- or even slightly below -- would probably keep the Fed on track to raise rates.
"If Friday's number is good, I'd put my lunch money on the Fed raising rates next week," said Chris Bertelsen, chief investment officer of Aviance Capital Management.
Bertelsen joked he wasn't willing to bet the mortgage though. He said if the jobs report is "miserable" that might give the Fed pause.
 Yellen signals that a March rate hike is looking more likely
A bad jobs report would truly be a surprise, especially after figures from payroll processor ADP came out Wednesday morning that showed 298,000 jobs were added last month. That was vastly better than expected.
It's important to note though that the ADP figures don't include government jobs. And they aren't a perfect predictor of what the Labor Department reports.
But it's safe to say investors are now more optimistic.
"The market has been very strong," said Grant Bowers, a portfolio manager with Franklin Templeton. "We are seeing better economic data and conditions."
Bowers conceded the Fed may have to reconsider a rate hike if the jobs report is extremely weak. But he doubts that will be the case.
As for how President Trump will react to a Fed hike? Bowers thinks he should cheer it. After all, he complained when Yellen wasn't raising rates and accused her of doing so to try and boost the market for President Obama and Hillary Clinton.
"A rate increase should be viewed by the Trump administration as the market accepting his pro-business policies," Bowers said.
Deborah Cunningham, a portfolio manager with Federated Investors, also thinks a rate hike is all but certain. She argues that if the Fed doesn't raise them, it opens itself up more to political attacks.
 Fed economists criticize House GOP border tax
"If it stays pat for no apparent reason, the Fed will lose all credibility," Cunningham wrote in a report.
A rate hike next week would be the second since December and third since late 2015.
The rate increase in December 2015 was the Fed's first in more than nine years. The Fed cut rates to near zero in the midst of the 2008-2009 financial crisis.
So even if the Fed boosted rates several more times this year, Yellen (and Trump) probably won't have to worry too much about higher rates killing the economy.
Michael Arone, chief investment strategist at State Street Global Advisors, added that the market's version of March Madness (a play on the nickname of the NCAA basketball tournament) could keep the Fed from signaling that it will aggressively raise rates.
Arone noted that the looming deadline to raise the debt ceiling in Congress, the debate about how to replace Obamacare and upcoming Dutch elections this month could all create enough uncertainty that would lead the Fed to stay cautious.
There's also the issue of just who will be leading the Fed at this time next year.
The terms of both Yellen and Fed vice chair Stanley Fischer are due to end in 2018. It's not yet clear whether Trump will want them to stay on board or if he will appoint his own Fed leaders.
There is recent precedent for new presidents to stick with the status quo -- even when those Fed chiefs and presidents were not in the same party.
 Fed poised for major makeover in Trump era
Bill Clinton kept Reagan appointee Alan Greenspan. And Greenspan's successor Ben Bernanke, appointed by George W. Bush, served a second term as Fed chair under Obama before Yellen took over.
So it's possible Trump won't change anything at the Fed.
"Who knows what President Trump is going to do. But we are finally getting some pro-growth fiscal policies. That should enable the Fed to normalize rates. The Fed has been carrying the ball for the economy for so long," said Larry Rosenthal, president of Rosenthal Wealth Management Group.
But Yellen's future will probably depend on just how rapidly the Fed boosts rates and what impact it has on the economy and stock market.
"I don't think you are going to see the president or his crew become upset if rates are raised or not raised next week," Bowers said. "It might be a different story a year from now after three or four rate hikes."
"When you have women in any executive group, the results are better," she said. "When you have women join the labor force, it's better for growth. It improves the whole chemistry, and yet it is not happening fast enough. In some cases, it is not happening at all."
 What will it take to close the gender gap by 2044?
She said that many countries need to change laws before women can achieve equality. For example, she said that some countries tax by the family, which causes the second worker in the household -- usually the woman -- to be taxed at a higher rate. She also said that more countries should provide good child care services so women can work during the day.
Lagarde acknowleged to Quest that it's "a bit depressing" to still be falling behind in achieving equality for women.
"I think it will continuously be so, because there's an element of culture, there's an element of history," she said. "There is an element of biology and genetics about it, which we have to constantly fight against and we should do so because I think it leads to improvement of the entire community."
 IMF chief Lagarde guilty of negligence
Lagarde has said, in an IMF video two years ago, that IMF research shows that women's participation in the workforce leads boosts economies. But there are many legal barriers to them working in many countries, including the tax system, and the lack of maternity and paternity leave.
Trump pledged during the 2016 campaign to push for a $1 trillion infrastructure spending plan to revitalize American airports, roads and rail systems. Trump reiterated the plan earlier this month during his first joint address to Congress.
 Elon Musk's surprising secret weapon: Trump?
"To launch our national rebuilding, I will be asking Congress to approve legislation that produces a $1 trillion investment in infrastructure of the United States -- financed through both public and private capital -- creating millions of new jobs," Trump said. "This effort will be guided by two core principles: Buy American and hire American."
Wednesday's meeting will be the third time Musk has publicly met with Trump as president.
Musk, who is a member of both Trump's economic advisory council and manufacturing council, last met with Trump in February. The tech billionaire took public flack for meeting with Trump amid the president's push to curb the flow of refugees coming into the United States, but Musk defended the decision by arguing he is "doing good" by meeting with Trump.
"At my request, the agenda for yesterday's White House meeting went from not mentioning the travel ban to having it be first and foremost," Musk said at the time, referring to Trump's travel ban against seven Muslim-majority nations. "There has already been and there will be progress on this matter."
 Elon Musk joins court fight against Trump travel ban
Musk also met with Trump in January, just days after he was inaugurated.
The president used that meeting to warn the CEOs in attendance against outsourcing American jobs. He also discussed the "substantial border tax" he plans to implement.
Musk also met with then President-elect Trump in New York in January, and Vice President Mike Pence spoke with Musk on the phone on February 8.
Wednesday's meeting will include Secretary of Transportation Elaine Chao, Secretary of Energy Rick Perry and EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt.
Also attending the meeting will be: Richard LeFrak, the CEO of LeFrak; Steve Roth, the CEO of Vornado Realty Trust; Josh Harris, the co-Founder of Apollo Global Management; Bill Ford, the CEO of General Atlantic; Lynn Scarlett, the Managing Director of the Nature Conservancy and Tyler Duvall, a partner at McKinsey & Company.
Jack Bogle: I had no idea it was coming. We have a nice relationship. He just agreed a month ago to endorse my new edition of the "Little Book of Common Sense Investing." I am in touch with him periodically. I write something, and he gets back quickly in half an hour or less. We have a lot of mutual respect.
I'm still the same person I was before Buffett called me a hero. I still think of myself as a kid just trying to do the right thing. I started a company that was the essence of simplicity. I picked a business model never tried before and an unprecedented strategy focusing on index funds. I never had the slightest interest in building a colossus, and I was too stupid to realize if you gave investors the best deal they will ever see, to own the market and hold it forever, then you'll build a colossus whether you like it or not.
I feel good about it all. I don't consider myself a hero, but maybe, just maybe, it may take a hero [like Buffett] to know a hero. The remark has gotten a lot of attention. Nobody has written me to say I'm a jerk. I'm almost 88. I got a heart transplant 21 years ago. It's a thrill to live this long and see all this happen.
 Warren Buffett: Stock market still looks 'cheap'
2. You've said you don't feel "super confident" about the market and economy right now. Why not?
Jack Bogle: I don't feel super confident in the sock market. By any historical standards, it's pretty fully valued. I use a price- earnings (PE) multiple -- a good indicator of value, although it's not perfect. I get it up to 26x earnings. That's way on the high side. Long run, the norm is more like 16x earnings or 17x earnings.
I'm a stern taskmaster. I use last year's actual earnings. And I use reported earnings. I'm using last year's reported earnings. Wall Street, of course, is using this year's projected earnings. So they come up with a PE of 16. So if you ask me, I'm not super confident at 26. If you ask anyone from Wall Street, they would say they are super confident at 16. The numbers are the numbers.
 Trump adviser Carl Icahn is betting against the Trump rally
We don't know what earnings will be this year. They could well be up. We will just see about that. I don't know. But I can say the economy will have difficulty growing more than 2.5% this year. It's hard to see corporate profits growing at a much faster rate. In the long run, take the last 100 years, the correlation between corporate profits (after tax) and GDP is 98%. So my judgments are based on the long-term.
I couldn't care less about what the market did today. If you're a long-term investor, your one big bet is that GDP will be significantly larger in 2027 than it is today. And that's that. I am the apostle of simplicity. That comes from Vanguard's index fund strategy: own American business and hold forever at the lowest cost you can possibly hold it at. It's an extraordinarily simple strategy and the mathematics are enduring.
3. You've said that a number of President Trump's policies are "bad for society." What do you mean by that? What concerns you?
Jack Bogle: I don't "bell the cat" with the president. But I talk about these things generally. Anything that increases the gap between rich and poor is bad for our society. It's bad for our society and bad for our economy and stock market.
The second thing that concerns me is anything that makes racial divisions in our country worse. It's bad for our society, but also bad for our economy and our markets.
And anything that reduces our bulwark against communism -- NATO -- is bad for our economy and bad for our markets.
And anything that puts impediments to free international trade is also bad for our society and bad for our economy.
At least wiser heads, to a certain extent, seem to be prevailing. It's unknown to what extent he will push those positions on NATO, etc. Now he's looking at NATO in a much more favorable light. I don't know how any of these things will come out. But we can't divorce the needs and interests of society from the needs and interests of economy and our stock market.
 Why you should NOT panic about stocks
If you're concerned about those things, you want to be a little cautious. I have not reduced my equity positions. I only do that in extreme conditions. I'm about 50% Vanguard bond index funds and 50% Vanguard stock index funds. I have never done non-U.S. stocks. I said back in my first book in 1993 that I saw special risks in international stocks: currency risk, institutional risk, sovereign risks. I didn't see growth potential that equaled the U.S. I'm a great believer in the U.S. It's the same reason Warren Buffetts buys the S&P 500 index fund and not the all world index.
Since 1993, the S&P 500h (VOO)as gone up about 800%. The MSCI EAFE inde o (VEA)f international stocks has gone up around 280%. I'm in no position to say whether the same thing will happen in the future or not. But I don't mind betting on U.S. Half of revenues and profits of U.S. companies come from abroad anyway. I'm not some island of "American first" at all. So that was my position then and my position now. It gets me into trouble. I've never taken any position, so many people thought was stupid and wrong.
 Netflix, Facebook and other techs remain red hot
4. As a child of immigrants yourself, what's your view on the President's immigration policies?
Jack Bogle: My Bogle grandparents came over from Scotland in 1868. My Armstrong relatives were immigrants in 1705. They ran a farm in Indiana. We're all children of immigrants. Open immigrant is good for the economy. I don't mean just open the doors and let floodgates in. I do think discipline is required, but I don't think it should be based on religion.
It's amazing we don't want to bring terrorists into this country, but I read somewhere that the possibility of being killed by terrorist is roughly equivalent to the possibly of slipping in the bathtub and being killed.
5. Do you believe the stock market is in a bubble?
Jack Bogle: I don't think it's a bubble. I think it's a significant high valuation, but not a bubble. We got a bubble back in 2000 with the tech companies and the new economy. Stocks got up to 38x earnings. That's a bubble.
A bubble, the way I define it, is when the market value of stocks substantially exceeds the intrinsic value of corporations. That's not easy to measure. So you can have overvaluations and undervaluations. Generally speaking, unless they are extreme, I don't think it's good idea to act on them. Getting out of the market may be good idea, but who would really know? When you sell, somebody else is buying. That's the reality. Then you have to figure out when the time to get back in. I can't do it. I don't know anybody who can do it. I don't know anybody who knows anybody who's done it successfully. It's not a good strategy.
Of course there's risk in the market. There's the risk of a pandemic of disease, nuclear war, religious war. All those kinds of things are really worrisome. But I'm not sure how to protect myself against that. If there's a nuclear war, it won't matter whether you own stocks or bonds.
 What I wish I knew about money on graduation day
6. You've said that you see the U.S. entering a period of lower stock market returns. What should investors do?
Jack Bogle: When you look at market history, the average dividend yield has been 4.5%. It is now 2%, so that's 2.5% dead weight loss on future returns. If you look at earnings growth, the average has been around 5%. I think it's hard to see 5% regular earnings growth ahead. That's where investment return comes from. Speculative return is the percentage in the market increase or decrease that comes from the re-valuation of stocks. It's hard for me to see that's going to be higher at the end of a decade, but I'm perfectly willing to disclaim my knowledge. It could happen or not happen. But the odds are tremendous against it. When the PE ratio is above 20x, 80% of time returns will be lower for the decade than before. It's not 100% odds, but it makes common sense.
I tell people: Don't peek [into your retirement statement]. Don't open those statements until you retire. When you retire and open that statement, you are going to have so much money, you will probably go into dead faint.
 Will you have enough to retire? Check CNNMoney's retirement calculator
The miracle of compounding returns, particularly if you can eliminate the tyranny of compounding costs, is a fabulous number. It's hard to believe. One of the lawyers in the first Vanguard index fund -- a lawyer for our company underwriters -- decided he would buy 1,000 shares of the Vanguard S&P 500 index funda (VFINX)t $15 a share. So he put in $15,000. In October, we celebrated our 40th anniversary and he brought his statement with him. After paying his taxes, his $15,000 was worth $963,000. That's just very good market returns and staying the course and compounding. It's not a miracle.
Returns are not going to be that good in the future. It was an 11% annual return in that period. We're not going to get 11% in the future. More like 4 or 5% from stocks. And bonds are not particularly attractive either. The correlation between today's yield when you buy into bond market and the 10-year return is 92%. How could it be otherwise? So the bond market will be very lucky to return 2.5% or 3%.
7. You've advocated strongly for the Fiduciary Rule to protect average Joe investors. The Trump administration has already delayed implementation and may roll that rule back entirely. Why is that a mistake?
Jack Bogle: I have absolutely no idea what the administration is going to do. In truth, I'm not so sure the administration knows what it wants to do. You're trying to regulate things that can't be regulated. As much as the principle of the fiduciary rule is just remarkably sound -- something that is self-evident -- the implementation is always difficult. Whether they can put any lessening of the requirements for record keeping, for example, is up for debate. But I believe the rule will persist and can't be watered down.
I did an op-ed for the New York Times on this subject. The Times put the headline: "Putting clients second." It seems not a good foundation to put clients second. I wouldn't want to say to a client, "I'm putting you second." I think the rule will persist and investors will figure it out and go to a firm that has the fiduciary duty at the top of their agenda. It saves time and investors' money.
 The Fiduciary Rule explained
8. A lot of people say America is facing a retirement crisis where people haven't saved enough money. How do we improve our current system?
Jack Bogle: First, probably pretty close to half our population is simply in no position to save. If you're making $20,000 a year and someone says you have to put 15% away, you will be laughed out of the room. It's a nice idea, but you're going to have to depend on Social Security. I'm convinced Social Security has been -- and will continue to be -- a good investment. It's protected. It has a cost of living hedge. You can't take the capital with you, but it's a very good plan for all of us. Particularly for people who have nothing else to add. I'm not saying it will be easy to live on Social Security, but that's the reality.
For the others, the main thing is we've turned a defined benefit-oriented retirement plan -- the pension plan -- into a defined contributed plan. The defined benefit is dying more every year. Now we have defined contribution plan, but it's based on thrift plan -- extra savings -- not a pension plan. What we have to do is remodel the thrift plan so it looks like a defined contribution pension plan. So that means placing limits on taking money out. It means requiring an entry to the system only by investment firms that operate by low cost because cost is murder to the average investor.
We have to give investors a better option than the typical mutual funds. So there has to be more discipline to save and less cost in the system. The real return on a balanced portfolio is likely to be 2.5% or 3.5% [going forward]. If you're expecting 10% return, the historical return, and markets give you 3% or 4%, you have terrible shortfall. The market is at a fairly high level today, fully valued, I think. It's certainly hard for me to see it go up, although anything can happen! I've been in the market for 65 years. It's hard to know the unknowable.
 Meet Khe Hy, the Oprah for Millennials
9. You've been a harsh critic of hedge funds. Is there any reason someone should ever buy one?
Jack Bogle: There's no reason anyone would want to buy an average one. This is the dilemma. You could buy a hedge fund of funds, which just piles the fees on and makes you worse off. There will be always good hedge funds. But the ranking will change. The No. 1 hedge fund will be No. 50 hedge fund the next year. Hedge funds go out of business at an alarming rate. Just think about this: from 2009 to 2016, hedge funds earned 5% a year. Our balanced index fund of stocks and bonds earned 10.1% a year. You might get lucky with your hedge fund choice. But getting lucky is not the formula for investment success.
10. You ushered in an index investing revolution. There are two big concerns I hear a lot: 1) That index investors are passive and don't police what CEOs and companies do anymore and 2) There's a danger of too much correlation in the market. How do you respond to those critics?
Jack Bogle: Large institutional investors are going to start playing a much more significant role in corporate governance. That includes Vanguard, BlackRock and State Stree. (STT) They were all brought together by [JPMorgan CEO] Jamie Dimon. They have a statement of principles for long-term investors in stocks. It's not the end, but it's the good beginning.
There is a social responsibility and corporate responsibility to make sure companies are running in interests of shareholders. It's not about telling companies how to run themselves, but I do think the hands-off approach we had a long time ago is over. We're moving gradually toward much greater involvement in corporate governance, we institutional investors.
As to all these correlations, I don't know what to say about that. I don't think it makes much difference. All index funds do is neutralize a certain amount of stocks in the stock market. When I came into the business in the 1970s, stock market turnover was around 25% a year, not it's around 250%. If half of the market is indexed, that would drop from 250% to 125%. That's still 5 times what it was back then.
No, indexing is not Marxism again, as some claim. That was a silly paper [by researchers at investment firm Bernstein]. Highly inaccurate. Let them complain. I wish they would have some more serious complaints. If you're on Wall Street, you don't like the idea of indexing. But when grandma comes to you and says, "You're a stock broker, what do I do with my money?: You say put it in an index fund. Believe me, that is happening to a remarkable extent.
 Private prison stocks up 100% since Trump's win
Bonus: What is the next trend in the investment industry?
Jack Bogle: Simplicity has been the right way to do this since traders stood under the Buttonwood tree back in 1792 and did business at a New York curb. The math is the same. Business returns are created by corporations. All that's left is how that investment return is allocated between Wall Street and Main Street. When Wall Street get less, Main Street get more.
The rise of indexing is part of a sea change in how people thinking about investing. Wall Street is all about allocating returns between insiders and outsiders. When outsiders wake up, they will take their money to firms that do the right things for them. They will hold diversified portfolio at low cost and hang onto the portfolio forever. It's so simple and so boring. But you won't be bored when you open up that statement on your retirement day.
But a group called Save Jobs USA is challenging that rule in court, and the Trump administration has asked for 60 days to think about it.
The U.S. Department of Justice filed a petition last month asking to be given until April 2 "to allow incoming leadership personnel adequate time to consider the issues."
 Indian tech graduates fear the US may shut them out
Immigrant support groups worry the delay means Trump will eventually overturn Obama's ruling.
"The recent statements from the government present an unacceptable risk... that [the] DOJ might decide after 60 days to adopt the position of Save Jobs USA," said Aman Kapoor, the co-founder of the Immigration Voice advocacy group.
In a statement, Kapoor pointed out that Attorney General Jeff Sessions has previously said the H-4 ruling "hurts American workers."
Immigration Voice filed a motion this week to intervene in the case on behalf of thousands of its members currently working in the U.S. on H-4 visas.
 Tech's beloved H-1B visa is flawed. Here's why
"Immigration Voice decided that intervention in the Save Jobs lawsuit was the only option to protect the rights of our members and their families, including children who are U.S. citizens," the organization said.
In its petition, it cites two examples of members who stand to lose out if the legal challenge is successful: Sudarshana Sengupta, who plans to launch a startup for developing cancer strategies, and Anujkumar Dhamija, who recently invested about $55,000 to start a business remodeling luxury homes.
 What Trump's latest H-1B move means for workers and business
Both say their companies will create jobs for Americans, but not if Trump decides to stop them from working. Sengupta has a nine-year-old son while Dhamija has a two-year-old daughter. Both children are U.S. citizens.
"If this program ceases to exist, I will lose all my investment in the new business," Dhamija said in the statement released by Immigration Voice. "I will face significant financial hardships and won't be able to provide for my growing family."
In India, which accounts for 70% of all H-1B workers, there are signs that the uncertainty may be scaring away prospective spouses.
Shaadi.com, one of the country's most popular matchmaking websites, told CNNMoney on Wednesday that the number of women seeking eligible bachelors in the U.S. fell by about 15% between November and February.
"That may be due to the political developments in the U.S.," a representative said.
-- Rob McLean and Sara O'Brien contributed to this report
She's spent the last three years speaking with young male athletes at Division I schools like the University of Texas, the University of Florida and UCLA in an effort to get them to respect women.
 Jameis Winston: Girls should 'be silent'
Currently there are 311 sexual violence cases under investigation at colleges and universities, according to the U.S. Department of Education.
"One of the things that I do in every single locker room -- because I know who the guys are -- I pull pictures of their sisters and their moms and their girlfriends [from social media] and I make it very personal," Jones told CNNMoney. "Now they're staring at pictures of their 16-year-old sister and suddenly you reframe the issue completely."
Jones said she started with athletes because they're often treated "like gods" on college campuses.
"We identified them as the influencers and if we can influence the influencers, we thought we would have a broader reach," Jones said.
There's been such demand for her talks that she's now launching a program that will allow her to be in every locker room in the country.
Her ProtectHer program is now available as a 4-part kit that teams can buy. It includes a 50-minute documentary that sets the scene and explains why this issue matters.
In her talks, she defines rape and explains what consent actually looks like. For example, players have told her they knew a girl wanted to have sex with them because she liked their Instagram photos or flirted with them.
"The truth is, the majority of these guys would never intentionally rape a woman. To them, it feels very un-relatable," Jones said.
That's why she's equally concerned with addressing the attitudes that contribute to a "locker room talk" culture that disrespects women.
"We talk about: 'Are you making disrespectful jokes? How many girls are you texting at the same time convincing them that they're the only one?'" Jones said. "All these things that feel pretty innocuous, but ... something that all of them are participating in in some capacity."
 Uber CEO orders 'urgent' investigation after sex harassment allegations
Jones has received inquiries into her program from pro sports leagues, the military, prisons and even corporations.
She's seen firsthand how young men are affected by her talks.
"I've had guys come up to me in the locker room after my talks and cry telling me a personal story of theirs," Jones said.
There's also been positive feedback from coaches, including Yogi Roth, a former USC assistant coach who is now a college football analyst. Roth invited Jones to give her first talk to the high school players who compete at Elite 11, a national competition for high school quarterbacks.
"We felt that the conversation she would start was one that young men want to have but are often uncomfortable having," he said. "[The players] have remained in contact with her. As she has began to speak on college campuses Elite 11 alums became her largest advocates."
"Would you say that Jamie Dimon, who knows banking, shouldn't talk to him because he also owns bank stocks? It's absurd to say that," Icahn said, referring to the JPMorgan Chase (JPM) CEO.
Others don't agree. A watchdog group filed a complaint on Wednesday alleging that Icahn broke lobbying rules by using his new role to push the White House to change the EPA regulations that are hurting oil refiner CVR Energy.
Icahn was one of Trump's earliest supporters on Wall Street and after the election the new president tapped him to help get rid of "strangling regulations" that are hurting the American economy.
But Warren and six other Senate Democrats wrote a letter last month to the White House raising concern over Icahn's role as a special adviser on regulatory reform. The letter argued Icahn's "sprawling business empire and potentially unlimited portfolio in the administration" pose an "unacceptable risk" of real or potential conflicts of interest.
 Trump adviser Carl Icahn betting against Trump rally
Critics hold up CVR Energy, (CVI) which Icahn owns 82% of, as the best example of this conflict of interest problem.
For instance, CVR's shares soared 6% over two days last week after Bloomberg News reported that Icahn and a trade group presented the White House with a deal to revamp an important EPA rule.
Known as the renewable fuel standard rule, the EPA regulation requires CVR and other oil refiners to either blend their oil with renewable fuels or buy credits. Icahn told CNN's Poppy Harlow the rule is "natural stupidity" and he's said the regulation could cost CVR $200 million this year.
News of the Icahn-brokered deal on the EPA rule increased the value of Icahn's stake by $101 million over just two days, though the stock has since retreated.
Public Citizen, a watchdog group, wrote a letter to Congressional officials calling for an investigation into Icahn. The complaint alleges Icahn violated lobbying rules by failing to register as a lobbyist despite proposing this change to EPA rules that would help a company he controls.
Icahn didn't respond to a request for comment about this new complaint.
The CVR situation explains why Senate Democrats asked the White House if Icahn has been barred from providing advice on any specific regulations that affect his investments, or if he's recused himself from any matters.
Democrats also noted that Icahn Enterprises (IEP), the firm Icahn chairs and controls, invests in a broad range of other industries regulated by the federal government, including mining and auto manufacturing.
 American bank profits are higher than ever
But Icahn dismissed the conflict-of-interest fuss.
"We vetted this with the lawyers a number of times. I think the criticism is nonsense," Icahn told CNNMoney.
White House spokesperson Kelly Love said in a statement that Icahn is "simply a private citizen whose opinion the President respects and whom the President speaks with from time to time."
Love noted that Icahn will not be serving as a federal employee nor a special government employee and won't have specific duties.
"Mr. Icahn does not have a position with the administration nor a policymaking role," Love said.
Kiley, his first-born and a freshman at Hanover College, is aiming to be the first college grad on either side of the family.
 Rexnord finalizes deal to ship jobs to Mexico
Reed says showing up for work now "is like buying the ticket to the Titanic and you know the ending." His job is one of 300 that Rexnord is moving to a sprawling facility in Monterrey, Mexico.
Nearly 1,500 miles south of Indiana, the story outside Rexnord's Monterrey plant was decidedly different one day last month. A worker was putting the finishing touches on a cement wall surrounding the plant as trucks were hauling in materials. The dirt road entrance led to a packed parking lot.
At the end of the road stood Eustolio Bonilla, a fresh-faced 22-year old who had just applied for a job at the Rexnord factory.
"They told me there were vacancies, and so I decided to bring my resume," Bonilla told CNN's Leyla Santiago while holding his application in hand, waiting for a bus on the windswept road in Monterrey.
Bonilla says he'd been working odd jobs for months, hoping to find steady employment at a place like Rexnord.
Stories like these are why President Trump hates America's trade deals like NAFTA, the agreement between Canada, Mexico and the U.S. that became law in 1994.
The Rexnord story fits Trump's portrait of trade -- Mexico wins, America loses.
Its two sides illustrate how Trump faces an uphill battle against the larger forces of globalization -- namely cheap labor and global supply chains. Assembly lines stretch over borders and oceans these days.
In Indiana, Reed doesn't know what he'll do next. Applying for other jobs means he would risk losing his severance package -- six months pay and health care plus a $1,500 exit "bonus" if he stays until the plant closes this spring.
 Mexico warns Trump: tariffs 'will be a big mistake'
Reed earns $24.03 an hour, which gets him about $55,000 to $60,000 a year, working six days, or 60 hours a week.
Reed and other Rexnord workers say the company has dangled their severance packages in front of them "like a carrot." If they stay till the very end, they'll get severance. On Tuesday, Reed said Rexnord was hosting a jobs fair, but knowing the risks, he doesn't plan to go.
In a statement, Rexnord acknowledged the move was a "difficult decision and we understand the human impact." It said it plans to provide "transition services" for employees losing their jobs.
Rexnord did not comment specifically on the terms of the severance package.
"It's just a slap in the office," says Reed, who spends his free time hunting, fishing and watching his son's baseball games. "They just got us hog-tied to where we can't move on with our lives."
Down in Monterrey, another factory worker, Juan Ramon Trevino, represents the key reason why companies love Mexico: cheap labor.
As a repairman, Trevino has earned about 1,200 pesos a week ($58) -- what Reed makes in a couple hours.
That wage gap is a big reason why more than 1,600 American companies have operations in Monterrey's state, Nuevo Leon, including John Deere (DE), GE (GE), Carrier (UTX) and Caterpillar (CAT). Rexnord will soon join those ranks.
There are roughly 700,000 manufacturing workers like Trevino in Nuevo Leon.
From fixing transformers to manufacturing toys, Trevino's calloused hands speak for his years of hard work.
 Mexico ready to retaliate against Trump if he uses tariffs
Trevino is out of work now and he was recently sitting in Monterrey's main square filling out job applications when CNN caught up with him. Before the U.S. election, he considered going north of the border to find a job, but he says he wouldn't do that now with President Trump at the helm.
He just wants a better education for his 8-year old boy, Jose.
"My goal now is to get my family ahead. I don't care if it's a company from the United States or a Mexican company. I only want to work," says Trevino, 41.
Trump blames NAFTA for a flood of jobs to cities like Monterrey. Nonpartisan congressional research, however, concluded in 2015 that NAFTA didn't trigger an exodus of American jobs.
Still, Trump threatens to withdraw from NAFTA if the U.S. doesn't get a better deal.
 Mexican farmer's daughter: NAFTA destroyed us
Experts say tearing up NAFTA and slapping on tariffs would be terrible for both countries.
"If we don't agree and we start a war of tariffs or one without trade agreements, we're going to enter a fight that, in the long term, is not going to benefit anyone," says Adriana Berrocal, president of the Mexican Institute of Finance Executives in Mexico City.
Despite all of Mexico's gains from NAFTA, Mexican officials are the first to point out that Mexico has lost, too.
"Mexico was not given a free ticket. We paid our price. There are millions of people who lost their jobs here," says Fernando Turner, secretary of economy and labor in Nuevo Leon. "The United States needs Mexico as we need the United States, and fortunately, we can't separate. We are like Siamese twins. We can't split it up."
And here's where Trump stark portrayal of NAFTA -- Mexico wins, America loses -- conflicts with reality.
Winners and losers are defined by industry rather than nationality. In some industries, there are both winners and losers. And wages have stagnated on both sides of the border, more so in Mexico than America.
But among the biggest losers are Mexican corn farmers. Despite cultivating corn for thousands of years, Mexico now relies heavily on shipping in U.S. corn. That's because Mexican farmers couldn't compete with their northern counterparts once NAFTA became law.
In the first decade of NAFTA, Mexico lost about 900,000 farming jobs, according to a report by the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
American corn farmers were partly subsidized by the U.S. government and they gained free access to Mexico with NAFTA.
"NAFTA has been a great agreement for us to have market access," says Kurt Hora, president of the Iowa Corn Farmers Association. "Mexico is a huge market for us as corn farmers in the United States."
 40% of a Mexican import is American
Reed, the Rexnord worker losing his manufacturing job, feels differently.
"NAFTA is complete garbage," says Reed. "Everybody is losing except the Rexnord Corporation."
Reed worries prospective employers won't hire a 45-year old like him. He's not sure if he should try to apply for jobs that involve his manufacturing skills or acquire training for new kinds of jobs.
The jobs that have piqued his interest pay between $11 and $14 an hour, far less than his $24 an hour wage. He admits this year could be the last time the whole family takes its annual beach vacation.
Faced with the uncertainty of free trade, Reed insists he's determined to make his kids' dreams a reality.
"My kids will get everything they need," says Reed. For Kiley, the college freshman: "I will make it work, I will work two jobs, it's sure not the American dream but if it's for her dream, I promised her I will do it."
--Leyla Santiago, Jose Armijo and Lonzo Cook contributed reporting to this article
To contact the reporter, email: Patrick.gillespie@cnn.com
Financial firms use SWIFT for millions of transactions each day, such as transferring money and settling trades.
What is not clear is why the North Korean banks were still able to operate in a mainstream part of the global financial system even though they had been blacklisted under U.N. sanctions -- in one case since January 2013.
The U.S. Treasury Department last year accused North Korea of being a hub for money laundering and prohibited American banks from dealing with front companies that do business on behalf of North Korean financial institutions.
 U.S. cracks down on North Korea's money laundering
The Treasury Department said that North Korea's financial institutions operate with little or no international supervision -- making it easier for them to shift money for illicit purposes. The North Korean government has been accused of using state-owned corporations and front companies to pay for nuclear weapons and ballistic missiles.
The blacklisted North Korean banks' continued access to the SWIFT network was revealed in a U.N. Security Council report released this month.
 Chinese firm fined $1.2 billion for sanctions violations
"Despite strengthened financial sanctions in 2016, the country's networks are adapting by using greater ingenuity in accessing formal banking channels, as well as bulk cash and gold transfers," U.N. experts said in the report.
North Korea also has been loosely linked to attacks on banks via the SWIFT network.
Security researchers said last year they believed a series of efforts to steal money from banks on the network used tools similar to those previously deployed by a sophisticated hacking group that has been linked to North Korea.
SWIFT, which is based in Belgium, said in a statement that it "has no authority to make sanctions decisions." It said that's down to the relevant government authorities -- in this case, Belgium.
Belgian authorities recently told SWIFT that they were withdrawing the authorizations that the North Korean banks needed to use the network's financial messaging services, SWIFT said.
 North Korea flouting sanctions with illegal arms trade, report says
The authorities cited "the current international situation" relating to North Korea and "the ongoing discussions in the UN Security Council," according to SWIFT.
The Belgian Finance Ministry didn't immediately respond to a request for comment. SWIFT declined to comment further.
The three blacklisted banks were Bank of East Land, Korea Kwangson Banking Corp. and Korea Daesong Bank, according to the U.N. report. Bank of East Land was blacklisted in January 2013, Korea Kwangson Banking Corp. in March 2016 and Korea Daesong Bank in November 2016.
It's not surprising that some of Obamacare's most popular provisions aren't touched. These include allowing children under age 26 to remain on their parents' policies and protecting those with pre-existing conditions. President Trump and GOP lawmakers have said all along that they would like to maintain these reforms.
 Republicans' Obamacare replacement bill: The winners and losers
But there are several other key provisions that are all too familiar, say some of those pushing for full repeal.
Here are some of the most obvious ones:
Using refundable tax credits to help people pay for coverage: Both Obamacare and the proposed GOP plan help people afford policies by providing refundable tax credits that are paid in advance to insurers. Those buying plans on the individual market are eligible, but those covered through their jobs or the government are not.
There are some significant differences. Obamacare's subsidies are based on enrollees' incomes and cost of coverage in their areas. The Republican tax credits vary with age, ranging from $2,000 for 20-somethings to $4,000 for those in their early 60s.
But Obamacare and the Republican plan both have income caps. An enrollee making more than $47,500 does not qualify for assistance under Obamacare. If the GOP plan becomes law, those making more than $75,000 would see their tax credits start to phase out, and an enrollee making more than $215,000 would no longer be eligible.
Keeping the tax on generous employer health insurance plans: Obamacare also sought to curb the tax break on employer plans. Its vehicle of choice was the so-called Cadillac tax, which calls for imposing a 40% levy on employers on the amount of their premiums that exceed $10,200 for individual policies and $27,500 for family plans.
The idea is to have employers limit their benefits packages to a certain level, slowing the growth of health care spending and usage. The Cadillac tax was to have started in 2018, but it was delayed until 2020 amid pressure from companies and unions.
 The GOP's Obamacare replacement bill: Dead on arrival?
The Republicans would keep the Cadillac tax, but would push it off until 2025. An earlier draft of the GOP legislation called for replacing the levy with a cap on the tax benefits of employer-sponsored plans. It would have required the priciest plans to pay tax on their premiums, but lawmakers removed the provision from the bill unveiled on Monday.
Eliminate the individual mandate, but let insurers penalize the uninsured: One of the most reviled provisions of the Affordable Care Act is the individual mandate, which requires most Americans to have health insurance or pay a penalty. Those uninsured in 2017 will have to pay $695, or 2.5% of their income, whichever is higher.
The mandate's purpose is to draw young and healthy Americans -- who might not feel they need coverage -- into the market. Their participation is crucial to balance out the higher costs of older and sicker enrollees, whom insurers are required to cover under Obamacare.
Since Republicans have said they want to protect those with pre-existing conditions, lawmakers must find a way to get these young and healthy consumers to buy policies. Their solution? Allowing insurers to charge more -- a 30% surcharge on top of their premium for a year -- to those who let their insurance lapse. But to some, this is simply letting the insurers levy a penalty.
 GOP's Obamacare replacement plan would lower taxes for the rich
All these provisions don't sit well with conservatives.
"This is ObamaCare-lite," said Jason Pye, director of public policy and legislative affairs of FreedomWorks, which promotes free markets and individual liberty. "It creates a new entitlement through the refundable tax credits. It allows insurance companies to assess a 30% penalty on those who don't keep continuous coverage for 63 days, which is an individual mandate by another name."
2. Stock market overview: Global stock markets were relatively calm on Wednesday.
Most European markets were steady in early trading. Asian markets closed the day with mixed results.
U.S. stock futures look a bit soft.
The Dow Jones industrial average, S&P 500 and Nasdaq have now slipped in two consecutive trading sessions. U.S. stocks had been on a massive winning streak before they lost momentum at the end of last week.
Before the Bell newsletter: Key market news. In your inbox. Subscribe now!
3. Chinese trade: China reported a rare trade deficit in February equal to about $9 billion. However, the country's trade data are frequently distorted this time of year.
"These figures need to be taken with a large pinch of salt as annual shifts in the timing of Chinese New Year, which disrupts activity at factories and ports, make year-on-year trade growth highly volatile at the start of each year," said economists at Capital Economics.
Still, it's the first monthly trade deficit China has reported in three years.
Download CNN MoneyStream for up-to-the-minute market data and news
4. U.S. jobs report preview: Anticipation is building on Wall Street ahead of Friday's monthly jobs report. Continued payroll growth could give the U.S. Federal Reserve confidence to raise interest rates later this month.
But before the main event, investors will get a preview of the labor market conditions from ADP.
ADP will release numbers on private-sector job creation for February at 8:15 a.m. ET. Economists expect the report to show 180,000 new jobs.
5. Watching the pound: The U.K. currency fell to just below $1.22 on Wednesday, its lowest level since January.
The country's top finance official -- Philip Hammond -- will present the government's budget plans for the coming year later on Wednesday.
6. Coming this week:
Wednesday - "A Day Without a Woman" general strike Thursday - Geneva International Motor Show officially begins Friday - Monthly U.S. jobs report released
Republicans' Obamacare replacement bill: The winners and losers
Ending Obamacare would mean that nearly everyone in the Top 1% who earn more than $774,000 a year, would enjoy a hefty tax cut, averaging $33,000, according to a report published in December by the non-partisan Tax Policy Center. Those in the Top 0.1% would get an average tax cut of about $197,000.
The bill also contains other benefits for those with money.
It would allow folks to contribute more to Health Savings Accounts, which are primarily used by better-off Americans who can afford to sock money away for health care expenses. The bill would increase the limit to cover the deductible and out-of-pocket expenses allowed under high deductible plans. For individual coverage, this would be $6,550 for individuals and $13,100 for families beginning in 2018. The current limit is $3,400 for an individual and $6,750 for a family.
Also, the Republicans would enable people higher on the income scale to claim the tax credit to help pay their premiums. Under Obamacare, an enrollee who makes more than $47,500 is no longer eligible for a subsidy. The GOP plan would let a policyholder making up to $75,000 and families earning $150,000 claim the full tax credit. The benefit would phase out slowly until the enrollee hits $215,000 in income or a family hits $290,000.
Brazilian plane maker Embraer on Tuesday rolled-out the largest passenger plane the company has ever built. The E195-E2 was unveiled at a ceremony in Sao Jose dos Campos near Sao Paulo where the plane maker is based.
John Slattery, chief executive of Embraer Commercial Aviation, said the development of the new jet is ahead of schedule and on budget, a rare feat for the perennially delayed aircraft manufacturing business.
Embraer's business, which is heavily exported to the world's airlines, has been a notable bright spot in an otherwise abysmal Brazilian economy. The E195-E2 will fly before the middle of the year, said Slattery in an interview Monday. The jet will enter service in the first half of 2019. The jet is the second of three jets planned by the plane maker.
And at nearly 137 feet nose to tail, it's the second longest airliner with only four seats across the cabin. Only the supersonic pencil-like Concorde was longer.
 The world's new planes in 2017
The Embraer E2 aircraft are heavily updated versions of its popular E1 regional jet series of aircraft.
The jet will carry up to 146 passengers in an all-economy layout, putting it squarely in competition with Airbus and Boeing's smallest jets. But Slattery is quick to offer the jet as a complement to U.S. and European models, not a direct competitor.
Embraer's Canadian rival Bombardier was met with a fierce competitive response over the last decade when it aimed its CSeries at Boeing and Airbus' smallest single-aisle jets.
Slattery also expected an uptick in order activity, even as sales have been sluggish across all manufacturers in 2017. Slattery said he is chasing possible deals in China, Southeast Asia, Europe and Latin America, where he is seeing early signs of an economic recovery in Brazil.
Boeing's Max 9 Unveiled
Boeing, too, rolled-out a new model on Tuesday. The U.S. manufacturing giant showed off its new 737 Max 9 at a morning ceremony at its Renton, Washington, plant near Seattle.
The new aircraft is heading for its maiden flight in April.
 What Boeing's new 737 Max 9 has under the hood
The 737 Max is Boeing's latest update to its single-aisle jet lineup. The longer Max 9 is the second of five Max models Boeing is planning. The first, the 737 Max 8, recently completed testing and is heading for certification by aviation regulators ahead of its springtime first delivery.


The Max 9 was originally going to be the largest version of Boeing's 737 Max family of jets, but on Tuesday, Boeing shared plans for a possible even-larger Max 10X that seats 190 in first and economy class, or about 12 more passengers than the Max 9.
 Boeing chases airlines for stretch 737
The Max 9 has been a slow seller for Boeing compared to its rival Airbus, and the U.S. plane maker is looking to spur sales with an even larger 737. Boeing aims to have its first orders from airlines in 2017 and wants to be flying passengers by 2020, said Randy Tinseth, Boeing Commercial Airplanes vice president of market.
The tanning provision was pitched in the original Obamacare legislation with two goals in mind.
Supporters billed it as a way to fight deadly skin cancer. A report from the International Agency for Research on Cancer showed that the risk of melanoma increased by 75% for people who started tanning before age 35.
Proponents also saw a way to help pay for Obamacare. The Congressional Joint Committee on Taxation projected that the tanning tax would raise $200 million in 2011, and as much as $2.7 billion total by 2019.
 Republicans' Obamacare replacement bill: The winners and losers
But the tax has fallen far short of those estimates. In 2015, the most recent year for which data is available, the IRS collected only about $78 million from the tax.
Opponents of the tax have been fighting it for years.
Reality television star Nicole Polizzi, Snooki from "Jersey Shore," railed against the tax on the show.
The American Suntanning Association, a trade group that represents industry suppliers and roughly 1,000 tanning salons, says its research shows the tax halved the number of salons in the country and contributed to the loss of nearly 100,000 jobs.
On Tuesday, the organization praised the language in the Republican replacement plan.
"We applaud Congress for taking action to repeal this onerous and unfair tax, which has crippled an industry and hurt small business owners across the country," the trade group's president, Melinda Norton, said in a statement.
These normally mundane trade stats, which were released Tuesday, have come under fire from Trump. He frequently cites trade deficits as a reason to renegotiate or even withdraw from deals with other countries.
 Trump administration: We may ignore the World Trade Organization
The big 4 trade deficits
The U.S. had a $61 billion trade deficit in goods and services with Mexico in 2016.
The U.S. trade deficit was significantly larger with China: $309 billion.
Trump lambasted China on the campaign trail. But his criticism of China over trade has not been as frequent as his criticism of Mexico since he arrived at the White House.
America's trade deficit with Germany was $67 billion, and with Japan it was $56 billion last year.
Peter Navarro, director of the White House National Trade Council, criticized Japan and Germany for manipulating their currencies to make their exports cheaper and more competitive against the U.S. (Germany uses the euro, not its own currency, but its economy has a heavy influence on the euro).
However, Trump has had very little criticism about either nation's trade ties to the United States.
 Trump trade negotiator boosts Mexican peso
Trade deficits - good or bad?
Navarro and Trump both like to say that a trade deficit is a negative factor when officials calculate U.S. economic growth. That's true.
But the U.S. trade deficit has grown for decades, including during periods of strong economic growth. A report from Trump's U.S. Trade Representative acknowledged that fact last week.
"Of course, a rising trade deficit may be consistent with a stronger economy," the USTR noted last week.
For example, in the late 1990s, the U.S. economy grew at 4% annually, while the trade deficit got bigger. And during the Great Recession, between 2007 and 2009, the trade deficit got smaller.
How could the U.S. grow if the trade deficit got bigger?
Because America is a consumer economy. About 66% of U.S. economic activity consists of consumer spending. Cheaper products from Mexico, China and elsewhere make it easier for Americans to spend. And all that spending is the main engine of growth behind the U.S. economy.
Starbucks (SBUX) said the beans are "hand-rotated frequently" over a period of several weeks to make sure they all come into contact with the barrel and absorb the flavor of the whiskey.
The roasting burns off the actual alcohol. But Starbucks says that the whiskey flavor and smell remains.
"You get those earthy notes mingling with the oak to create a cup that's unlike any other," said Duane Thompson, a member of the Starbucks beverage R&D team, in a release about the new coffee.
The Seattle roastery will sell two specialty drinks -- a cold brew sweetened with vanilla syrup in a sidecar glass -- as well as a hot "con crema" drink that features the coffee mixed with the vanilla syrup and topped with sugar and foam.
But if you don't live near Seattle and aren't able to make a trip to the 206 just to try these whiskey-infused coffees, take heart. There are some other liquor-coffee hybrids available.
Jack Daniel's has a special Tennessee Whiskey Coffee that it launched last December. Brown-Forman (BFB), the owner of Jack Daniel's, partnered with New Jersey-based World of Coffee on it.
 Starbucks got approval in 2016 to sell alcohol in five Utah stores
Death Wish Coffee was selling Barrel Brand Coffee a few years ago -- coffee in four different varieties that are aged in whiskey, rye, rum and wine barrels.
A company in Colorado called Whiskey Barrel Coffee also sells coffee that, as its name implies, was aged in whiskey barrels.
It just makes me wonder if Jim Morrison of The Doors were still alive today (note to conspiracy theorists -- he's not) would he sing about needing to be shown the way to the next whiskey coffee bar? Oh. Don't ask why.
Of course, you could always just order an Irish coffee too. But that's preferably with some Baileys, Jameson or Bushmills -- and not American bourbon.
Icahn Enterprises (IEP), which Icahn controls and serves as chairman of, quietly disclosed last week that it had a net short position in its investment portfolio of 128% as of the end of last year. That's a fivefold increase from the end of 2015.
The net short position means Icahn's firm is betting against 1.3 shares for every one share it's betting on. In other words, Icahn's investment portfolio will generally gain value when prices decline, and vice versa.
"I am concerned at this point that the market has run ahead of itself," Icahn told CNNMoney in a phone interview on Tuesday.
Icahn said one "worrisome thing is that so much money has run into ETFs." Icahn voiced concern that the flood of retail money into passive investments like ETFs will create a stampede when markets turn south.
However, Icahn explained that his firm isn't as negative as suggested by the net short figure, which only covers its investment segment and not its various other holdings.
He noted that Icahn Enterprises has a lot of control positions that are not counted in the investment segment. For instance, Icahn Enterprises owns Pep Boys and manufacturer Federal-Mogul.
 A lot has to go right for Trump rally to continue
But Icahn Enterprises' top executives sounded very cautious during last week's conference call.
"We continue to have a fairly bearish view," Icahn Enterprises CEO Keith Cozza said during the call.
"The market does seem to be priced for perfection," he said.
Besides the short position, Icahn's firm is also taking some defensive maneuvers. In December, it sold American Railcar Leasing for up to $3.4 billion and last week it unloaded the shuttered Trump Taj Mahal casino in Atlantic City to the company behind the Hard Rock Café for an undisclosed sum.
The investment company also refinanced $1.2 billion of debt and raised $600 million in cash through a stock offering. The firm's balance sheet has slashed its total debt to the lowest level in nearly three years.
"It's not the greatest time for large, long investments," Icahn's CEO said during the call.
Icahn executives voiced concern about "very high market multiples."
The S&P 500 is trading at 17.9 times forward earnings, the highest P/E ratio since 2004, according to FactSet.
Valuation levels have climbed to high levels because the big Trump rally -- the S&P 500 is up 11% since November 8 -- has been fueled by expectations of tax cuts and other stimulus, not fundamental improvement in corporate profits.
 Trump vows to bring drug prices 'way down'
Icahn Enterprises declined to explain which specific industries the firm is betting against. However, Cozza seemed worried about Trump's trade plans, saying that "certain industries" are "especially susceptible to potential border adjusted tax plans."
House Republicans have proposed a border adjustment tax that aims to encourage more companies to make things in the U.S. by imposing a tax on imported goods. Retailers are strongly opposed to a BAT because it could make the imported goods they sell a lot more expensive.
Icahn's cautious positioning stands in contrast to his opportunistic stance back in early November. As global markets panicked over Trump's victory, Icahn literally left the victory party in Manhattan early to buy "a lot of stock" in overnight markets.
"I'm sad I didn't buy a lot more," Icahn told CNN's Poppy Harlow in early December.
But Icahn also signaled uneasiness over the rally in that interview, which was conducted as the Dow was fast approaching the 20,000 milestone. The billionaire said the rally had "gone too far."
Of course, the markets have only gotten higher since then. Last week, the Dow zoomed past the 21,000 level following Trump's well-received speech to Congress. CNNMoney's Fear and Greed Index is flashing "greed" and last week it even tipped over into "extreme greed" mode.
This is hardly the first time Icahn has gone negative on the market. He emerged as a vocal bear in 2015, warning of a "catastrophe" in a September 2015 video dubbed "Danger Ahead."
Icahn's firm was 149% net short as of last June amid worries about a bubble in risky junk bonds.
But the numbers put out last week show that Icahn's firm remains very cautious despite Trump's victory.
 Republicans' Obamacare replacement bill -- The winners and losers
While companies in other industries can typically only deduct executive salaries of up to $1 million, there is virtually no limit on deductions for bonuses. Since the overwhelming majority of executive compensation comes in the form of performance-based bonuses, companies can deduct the overwhelming majority of it as a business expense.
The deductions don't affect the executives' individual tax bill, just the company's. But allowing bigger deductions on executive pay could give companies an incentive to hike that pay, since some of it would be made up for by the lower taxes.
 Why disrupting health care can be tricky
Top executives across the health insurance industry are paid well above current $500,000 deduction limit.  Aetna (AET) CEO Mark Bertolini received $17.3 million in 2015, the most recent year for which compensation has been reported. Cigna CEO David Cordani made the same amount. UnitedHealth (UNH) CEO Stephen Hemsley had total compensation of $14.5 million, while Anthem (ANTM) CEO Joseph Swedish received $13.6 million. Humana CEO Bruce Broussard received $10.3 million.
-- CNNMoney's Tami Luhby contributed to this report.
These meals by Brady, who is notoriously finicky about his diet, will begin shipping on April 3.
He'll be taking on the increasing number of food subscription services like Blue Apron, Hello Fresh and Plated.
The new meal service is the result of a partnership between Brady's company, TB12, and plant-based meal service Purple Carrot. Subscribers will also get access to TB12 content and can enter giveaways.
 Super Bowl LI action outshines provocative ads
"Tom is one of the greatest athletes of all time," said Purple Carrot founder & CEO Andy Levitt. "It's a real honor to work together to help people gain a deeper appreciation for how the food choices they make can have a direct effect on their own health and well-being."
Dinner descriptions include things like crispy turnip cakes with tabbouleh, white lentil risotto with roasted vegetables and ramen with gingered greens and broccolini.
 Delta is bringing back free meals
The meals are gluten-free and high in protein. They don't have dairy, eggs, seafood, meat or processed foods. They also use very little soy or refined sugar.
"Eating meals just like the ones we'll send out to our customers has helped me stay at the top of my game," Brady said.
Winning a Super Bowl not guaranteed.
Background checks were down 20% in January and 17% in December.
 How President Trump is bad for the gun industry
Gun sales have been driven by politics. President Obama, in his doomed attempt to tighten federal gun laws, was the greatest gun salesman in history. Then came Hillary Clinton and her campaign against Trump, who was endorsed by the National Rifle Association.
With Obama and Clinton out of the picture and Republicans in control of Congress, the threat of more restrictive gun laws has disappeared, and people are less motivated to buy guns.
Gun stocks have also dropped steeply. American Outdoor Brands (AOBC), the company formerly known as Smith & Wesson, is down 33% from Election Day. Sturm Ruger (RGR) is down 25% in that time.
 Gun silencer bills could mean big business for the industry
The FBI conducts a background check every time someone tries to buy a gun, or guns, from a federally licensed dealer, which includes any dealer at a gun store. Most buyers pass inspection.
Some purchases at gun shows, or between individuals, do not involve federally licensed dealers and are not subject to background checks.
People sometimes apply more than once for a background check for a single gun purchase, or apply only for one background check to buy more than one gun. And some applicants are rejected. So background checks do not directly reflect gun sales.
The White House did not respond to a request for additional comments and clarifications about Trump's tweet.
As of Tuesday morning, the official @POTUS Twitter account had not yet retweeted the original tweet, which came from the president's personal @realdonaldtrump account.
I am working on a new system where there will be competition in the Drug Industry. Pricing for the American people will come way down!
But @POTUS did tweet about the new Republican health care bill, saying that it was "out for review and negotiation" and adding that "#ObamaCare is a complete and total disaster" which is "imploding fast!"
This is also not the first time that Trump has bashed drugmakers for high prices.
Our wonderful new Healthcare Bill is now out for review and negotiation. #ObamaCare is a complete and total disaster - is imploding fast!
And this populist stance actually mirrors that of his former presidential rival Hillary Clinton as well as other leading Democrats like Bernie Sanders.
In a December interview with Time magazine, which named him Person of the Year, Trump said that "I'm going to bring down drug prices" and that he did not like what was happening in the industry.
 Trump says he's going to make companies cut drug prices
Trump followed up that tough talk with even harsher words in January.
In his first speech since the election -- just a week before his inauguration -- Trump complained about big price increases and put the industry on notice.
He said many drug companies were "getting away with murder" and that there would be more competitive bidding practices for federal contracts in his administration.
Trump added that he was not happy about the fact that many pharmaceutical and biotech companies are producing goods overseas instead of in the United States.
"Drug companies supply their products here but they don't make them here," he said.
In late January, President Trump met with the leaders of several big drug companies and once again pressed them to lower prices that he referred to as "astronomical for our country."
Attacking the pharma and biotech industry has been an easy way for members of both political parties to score points with voters.
 The winners and losers from the GOP's Obamacare replacement bill
There have been numerous cases of companies raising prices for key drugs to exorbitant levels. Mylan has come under fire for price increases of its life-saving EpiPen allergy medication.
And Martin Shkreli became a poster child for all that's wrong with the health care system after he bought a company that owned Daraprim, a drug used to treat HIV and AIDS patients, and immediately boosted the price of it by more than 5,000%.
So it's clear that President Trump wants to do something to combat soaring drug prices. He may also find support from both sides of the aisle in Washington. But it's still unclear just how Trump and Congress will get drug companies to lower prices.
CNNMoney's Matt Egan reported in January that Biogen (BIIB), Teva (TEVA), Bristol-Myers Squibb (BMY) and AstraZeneca (AZN) have already boosted prices for drugs that treat multiple sclerosis, arthritis and ovarian cancer so far this year.
The Hurun Report said Prime Minister Narendra Modi's "demonetisation" was largely to blame.
Modi stunned India on Nov. 8 when he announced the scrapping of all 500 and 1,000 rupee notes.
 First cash, now India could ditch card payments by 2020

That decision, aimed at cracking down on tax evasion, took 86% of the country's cash out of the system and caused many sectors of the economy to slow sharply.
India claims to have weathered the storm, with recent government data showing the economy grew at 7% -- higher than expected -- in the quarter ended Dec. 31.
But the country's super rich don't appear to have fared so well. The Hurun Report says the combined wealth of Indian billionaires fell by 1% last year.
India's richest man, Mukesh Ambani, has the 29th largest fortune in the world with an estimated net worth of $26 billion.
Unemployment hit 12.6% in January. A year ago it was 9.5%. By comparison, at the height of the U.S. recession in 2009, unemployment peaked at 10%. Nearly 13 million Brazilians are out of work.
Despite hints of a recovery underway, life isn't improving for ordinary Brazilians, experts say.
"It doesn't feel like the recession is over in the streets of Brazil, but you find a lot of optimism in board rooms and within the ranks for government," says Brian Winter, vice president at the Council of the Americas.
 Brazil's legendary Maracana becomes 'ghost stadium'
An investigation into a massive government bribery ring helped spark the downturn as Brazil prepared to host the 2016 Summer Olympics in Rio de Janeiro. These days Olympic facilities like Rio's iconic Maracana Stadium have become "ghost stadiums" with stolen seats, parched soccer fields and vandalized equipment.
The corruption-fueled recession partly led to the impeachment of former President Dilma Rousseff.
Politicians, billionaires and corporate executives have been jailed.
One Brazilian company in the bribery ring, Odebrecht, paid the largest anti-corruption fine in the history in December, agreeing to pay at least $2.6 billion to authorities in Brazil, Switzerland and the U.S. It admitted company executives broke the law.
"Although not without flaws, the investigations revealed to the country the systemic nature of corruption in Brazil. Brazilians knew intuitively that the problem existed but did not understand how extensive it was," says Paulo Sotero, director of the Brazil Institute at the Wilson Center in Washington D.C.
Brazil's current government, led by President Michel Temer who took office in May, remains deeply unpopular. Temer's approval rating hovers around 10%. Five of his cabinet ministers have resigned due to corruption allegations, and last week his foreign minister resigned, citing health reasons.
 Brazil finance minister resigns, citing health reasons
Temer's administration passed a key law to put a cap on public spending, which had ballooned during the two previous presidencies. While it was lauded by economists and investors, it's drawn widespread scorn from Brazilians struggling in poverty and unemployment.
But to truly reel in public spending, Temer is attempting to reform the country's pension system. With low approval ratings and presidential elections on the horizon in 2018, experts argue such a reform will be tough to pass.
Still, there are signs of recovery. Foreign investment, scared away by the bribery scandal, has returned. Brazil's stock market is up 60% in the past 12 months in dollar terms and its currency, the real, has bounced back after plunging. The IMF forecasts Brazil's recession ending this year but predicts growth will be less than 1%.
--Shasta Darlington and Flora Charner contributed reporting to this article
However, German industrial orders in January delivered a nasty shock, slumping 7.4%.
In South America, new figures from Brazil show the country continues to grind through its longest recession ever, spanning eight consecutive quarters.
Brazil's economy shrank 3.6% in 2016. That's just a slight improvement from 2015, when it contracted 3.8%, but still far from good.
Before the Bell newsletter: Key market news. In your inbox. Subscribe now!
2. Earnings: Dick's Sporting Goods (DKS) is set to release earnings before the open Tuesday, while H&R Block (HRB) and Urban Outfitters (URBN) are set to release earnings after the close.
3. Global market overview: Markets have lacked direction since U.S. stocks hit record highs last week.
U.S. stock futures were dipping on Tuesday morning. European markets were mostly declining in early trading.
But most Asian markets ended the day with small gains.
On bond markets, prices for U.S. 10-year Treasuries are sinking, pushing up yields to 2.5%. This comes as the vast majority of investors expect the U.S. Federal Reserve to hike rates next week.
"It is a rare event indeed when Bloomberg's World Interest Rate Probability screen is telling me that there is a 98% chance of a Fed rate hike in eight days' time," noted Kathleen Brooks, research director at City Index. "Expectations for a Fed rate hike are rarely this high with more than a week to go until the rate decision."
On Monday, the Dow Jones industrial average, S&P 500 and Nasdaq all retreated. Each of these indexes were down by between 0.2% to 0.4%.
Download CNN MoneyStream for up-to-the-minute market data and news
4. Snap fizzles out: Snapchat's parent company Snap (SNAP) will be in the spotlight again after shares fizzled on Monday.
Snap stock tanked more than 12% in trading Monday, ending the day at $23.77 a share. That puts Snap below its first day opening price of $24.
Analysts have been raising significant concerns about Snap's user growth, valuation and hype. The company's shares debuted on Wall Street last week.
5. Coming this week:
Tuesday - Urban Outfitters (URBN) earnings Wednesday - "A Day Without a Woman" general strike Thursday - Geneva International Motor Show officially begins Friday - Monthly U.S. jobs report released
 Republicans unveil bill to repeal and replace Obamacare
Titled the American Health Care Act, the legislation calls for providing refundable tax credits based on a person's age and income. It keeps the Obamacare protections for those with pre-existing conditions, but it allows insurers to levy a 30% surcharge for a year on the premiums of those who let their coverage lapse. It lifts the taxes that Obamacare had imposed on the wealthy, insurers and prescription drug manufacturers. And it loosens one of the law's strict insurance reforms so that carriers can offer a wider array of policies that pick up less of the tab for getting care.
The bill also eliminates the enhanced federal match for Medicaid expansion starting in 2020 and revamps the funding for the entire Medicaid program.
Republican lawmakers have repeatedly skirted criticisms that the bill will likely leave millions uninsured, but reviews of preliminary drafts by the Congressional Budget Office confirmed the problem, sources said. Also, a recent S&P Global report estimated that up to 10 million people could lose their coverage.
"With Medicaid reductions and smaller tax credits, this bill would clearly result in fewer people insured than under the ACA," said Larry Levitt, senior vice president at the Kaiser Family Foundation. "The House GOP proposal seeks to reduce what the federal government spends on health care, and that inevitably means more people uninsured."
Experts remain divided over the impact on the individual market. Some say insurers would flee or jack up their rates if millions of people drop out. Others contend that the Republican bill would stabilize the market and premiums because the reforms would give insurers more flexibility and entice more younger enrollees to sign up for coverage.
"If we let the ACA continue on its current trajectory, people really will lose coverage," said Doug Badger, senior fellow at the Galen Institute, a free-market, health-care think tank.
Here's who would likely lose under the Republican plan:
Lower-income folks could be left uninsured
Obamacare contains many provisions to help poor and lower-income Americans. It expanded Medicaid to cover adults who earn up to $16,400 a year -- some 11 million people in 31 states and the District of Columbia are now insured as a result.
Also, those with incomes just under $30,000 receive generous subsidies to lower their premiums, deductibles and out-of-pocket costs on the individual market.
The American Health Care Act would reverse much of this. It would end the enhanced federal Medicaid funding for new enrollees starting in 2020. Those already in the program could stay as long as they remain continuously insured. But since up to half have a break in coverage each year, it's likely participation would fall off quickly, said Jocelyn Guyer, managing director at Manatt Health, a consulting firm.
But the Republican bill would go beyond just eliminating Medicaid expansion. It would overhaul the whole program, which covers more than 70 million people, by sending states a fixed amount of money per enrollee, known as a per-capita cap. This would limit federal responsibility, shifting that burden to the states. However, since states don't have the money to make up the difference, they would likely either reduce eligibility, curtail benefits or cut provider payments.
 Higher-income Americans win under Republican plan to repeal Obamacare
All this could hurt not only poor adults, but also low-income children, women, senior citizens and the disabled.
The legislation also would eliminate the subsidies that reduce deductibles and co-pays for moderate-income policyholders on the individual market. And the tax credits it would provide would not go as far Obamacare's subsidies.
Folks making $20,000 a year take the biggest hit at any age under the GOP plan, a recent Kaiser study found. A 27-year-old would get only $2,000, instead of $3,225 under Obamacare, on average, while a 40-year-old would get $3,000 versus nearly $4,150.
However, the biggest loser would be a 60-year-old, who would receive only $4,000, instead of nearly $9,900 under Obamacare.
Older Americans could have to pay more
Enrollees in their 50s and early 60s benefited from Obamacare because insurers could only charge them three times more than younger policy holders. The bill would widen that band to five-to-one.
That would mean that adults ages 60 to 64 would see their annual premiums soar 22%, or nearly $3,200, to nearly $18,000, according to a study by the Milliman actuarial firm on behalf of the AARP Public Policy Institute. Those in their 50s would be hit with a 13% increase, or just over $1,500, and pay an annual premium of $12,800.
Also, the GOP bill doesn't provide them as generous tax credits as Obamacare. A 60-year-old making $40,000 would get only $4,000 from the Republican plan, instead of an average subsidy of $6,750 from the Affordable Care Act, according the Kaiser study.
The sick could get coverage, but it could be more limited
The GOP plan actually provides stronger protections for those with pre-existing conditions than some prior Republican proposals. Like Obamacare, it requires insurers cover these folks and prevents carriers from charging them more because of their health.
But the Republican plan would lift the requirement that insurers cover a certain share of the cost of getting care. This change would allow carriers to offer a wider selection of policies, including more with higher deductibles and co-pays. That could make it more difficult to find plans with low deductibles that the sick often want.
(However, the bill does not lift the Obamacare provision that limits how much enrollees have to pay out of pocket each year. For this year, the maximum is $7,150.)
Here's who would likely win:
Younger Americans could get cheaper plans
Obamacare was designed so that younger policyholders would help subsidize older ones. That would change under the Republican bill because it would allow insurers to charge older folks more.
This means that younger Americans would likely see their annual premiums go down. Enrollees age 20 to 29 would save about $700 a year to $4,000, on average, according to the Milliman study for the AARP.
 Full text: GOP plan to repeal and replace Obamacare
Those under age 30 would also get a refundable tax credit of up to $2,000 to offset the cost of their premiums, as long as their income doesn't exceed $215,000 for an individual. It's more likely that younger folks who are earlier in their careers would fall under this cap.
The GOP tax credits would also likely be more generous than Obamacare's subsidies for these folks. For example, a 27-year-old making $40,000 a year would receive $2,000 under the GOP plan, but only gets a $103 subsidy from Obamacare, on average, a Kaiser analysis found.
Also, the bill keeps the Obamacare provision that lets young adults up to age 26 stay on their parents' insurance plan.
The healthy could buy less expensive policies
Under Obamacare, only enrollees under age 30 and certain other people could buy catastrophic plans, which had lower monthly premiums but higher deductibles. In 2017, catastrophic plans came with $7,150 deductibles, but Obamacare enrollees couldn't use subsides to pay the premiums.
The American Health Care Act would open up such policies to everyone and allow enrollees to use tax credits.
This change, however, may not have as big an impact since insurers already offer plans with high deductibles that are eligible for Obamacare subsidies. Republicans dropped a provision from a prior draft that would have allowed carriers to sell policies that covered fewer benefits, such as maternity and prescription drugs. That would have made more of a difference for healthy consumers because they could opt for skimpier plans with lower premiums.
Higher-income Americans could get tax breaks and perks
The legislation would eliminate two taxes that Obamacare levied on the wealthy to help pay for the law. Nearly everyone in the Top 1%, who earn more than $774,000 a year, would enjoy a hefty tax cut, averaging $33,000, according to the non-partisan Tax Policy Center. Those in the Top 0.1% would get an average tax cut of about $197,000.
And the bill would allow folks to contribute more to Health Savings Accounts, which are primarily used by better-off Americans who can afford to sock money away for health care expenses.
Also, the Republicans would enable people higher on the income scale to claim the tax credit to help pay their premiums. Under Obamacare, an enrollee who makes more than $47,500 is no longer eligible for a subsidy. The GOP plan would let a policyholder making up to $75,000 claim the full tax credit. The benefit would phase out slowly until the enrollee hits $215,000 in income.
Insurance companies could get a big tax break
Obamacare allowed insurance companies to deduct only $500,000 of their executives' pay as a business expense. The GOP bill would repeal that limitation, starting in 2018.
Top insurers pay their leaders millions in compensation every year so this provision could mean a nice tax savings for the companies.
Correction: An earlier version of this article misstated that the bill would allow insurers to sell plans without Obamacare's required health benefits, such as maternity and prescription drugs.
To be clear, Brexit wasn't the only problem facing GM in Europe.
Over the past 17 years, GM has lost $22.4 billion in Europe. But those losses have been narrowing, and the company says it would have been profitable in Europe last year for the first time since 1999 -- without Brexit.
 GM selling its European business in $2.3 billion deal
The risks posed by political uncertainty in Europe outweighed the potential to turn a steady profit in Europe, GM President Dan Ammann said on a call with investors early Monday.
"We expect geopolitical events will continue to impact commerce in the region, as we're experiencing real time with the impact of Brexit," he said.
So far most of the impact on car sales has been due to the devaluation of the British pound versus the euro since the Brexit vote. But concerns are mounting about the increased cost of production once the U.K. leaves the EU.
Automakers that build and sell cars in Europe depend on free trade for car parts and cars across Europe. Just as President Trump's vow to place a border tax on Mexican goods has worried U.S. automakers who all have plants on both sides of the border, those with European operations are worried how they will deal with the U.K.'s departure from the EU. And it may not end with the U.K. French presidential candidate Marine Le Pen, who is leading in many polls, has vowed to call for a vote on whether France should also exit the EU if she is elected, which some have suggested could lead to the end of the EU.
GM executives did not mention Le Pen or the future of the EU on Monday. But Ammann did say, "We see risks in these markets that could outweigh these opportunities, making this the right time to divest the Opel-Vauxhall business."
 How many of GM's 38,000 jobs in Europe will survive
GM had already pulled its Chevrolet brand from Europe three years ago in an effort to stem losses. And it actually had reached a deal once before to sell Opel in 2009 as it prepared to file for bankruptcy. But it eventually pulled out of that deal with the hope it could turn around its prospects in Europe. But back then there was no doubt about the EU.
There are other issues as well, including concerns about increased regulatory costs in Europe, especially in the wake of the Volkswagen diesel emissions scandal. Diesel cars, which are a niche product in the United States, are a major portion of the car market in Europe.
And GM's relatively weak position in Europe shows no signs of turning around. Opel and Vauxhall have only about 6% of the market, down from 9% in 2000.
"It is a big market to walk away from," said Rebecca Lindland, executive analyst for Kelley Blue Book. "But Opel/Vauxhall was a money-losing puzzle no one at GM could solve for decades, and outside forces such as Brexit did not help the situation"
Tax cuts for the wealthy, he says, serve "no useful economic purpose."
Rubin, who spoke to CNNMoney from the Brookings Institution in Washington, says Trump's financial stimulus -- infrastructure spending and tax cuts -- may provide a short-term boost to the economy, but at a cost in the future.
 Trump's economic boom: 3 red flags
The labor market today is tight, Rubin explains, as evidenced by an unemployment rate of 4.8%. Injecting stimulus into a strong labor market will spark inflation, he says. Add that to tariffs that could raise consumer prices.
"That's a whole set of policies that could be highly detrimental to American workers," Rubin says.
Instead, Rubin advocates career retraining for out-of-work Americans and a path to citizenship for undocumented immigrants so companies don't have to hire as much abroad. All that, he says, would have be to be paid for with higher taxes.
"The reality, no matter who's in office," says Rubin, "we're going to have higher taxes."
 Mexico economic minister warns Trump on tariffs
Under Clinton, Rubin was head of the National Economic Council for two years, then served as Treasury secretary from 1995 to 1999. It was a time of strong economic growth, but Rubin was later criticized for deregulation and for failing to identify risks that helped cause the 2008 financial crisis.
After he left government, Rubin joined Citigroup as a top executive. In the decade that followed, Citi ramped up its exposure to risk, notably in the housing market. In November 2008, the bank nearly collapsed before the U.S. government announced a massive rescue package. Rubin stepped down in January 2009.
Today, he supports keeping intact most of the financial reform package known as a Dodd-Frank, another point of disagreement with Trump. Rubin warns that reforms haven't gone far enough to rein in parts of the financial system that are more lightly regulated than traditional banks.
 Trump begins dismantling Obama financial regulations
Before joining the Clinton administration, Rubin was a banker at Goldman Sachs. Trump has hired Goldman alums repeatedly for his Cabinet and his circle of close advisers, drawing criticism about a revolving door between Wall Street and the White House.
Rubin says it shouldn't matter, and that the financial background can be an advantage.
"I came from Wall Street to government," said Rubin. "I spent six and half years there and the only focus I ever had and that we ever had was in trying figure out what would be best for the economy." Both he and President Clinton, Rubin noted, were focused on helping middle income and lower income Americans.
Facebook (FB, Tech30) is up nearly 20%. Amazon (AMZN, Tech30) has gained 12%. Netflix (NFLX, Tech30) is up 14%. And Google parent company Alphabet (GOOGL, Tech30) is up 7%.
And don't forget Apple (AAPL, Tech30). It's the best performer in the Dow this year, rising 20%. Fellow Dow component Cisco (CSCO, Tech30) is up more than 13% too.
All six stocks are part of the Nasdaq, which has gained 8% and has outperformed the Dow and S&P 500.
The solid performance of these companies has helped push the Nasdaq to within spitting distance of topping the 6,000 mark for the first time ever.
 These 10 stocks dominate the market
How long will it take for the Nasdaq to get to 6,000? That probably will depend on earnings. Most tech companies reported solid results for the fourth quarter and have issued good guidance for the first quarter and 2017.
While many investors are obsessed with news from Washington (and what's popping up on Trump's Twitter accounts) these tech giants should keep doing well regardless of the political landscape since they are leaders in their respective industries.
"There are some meaningful fundamental drivers in the market right now," said David Jilek, chief investment strategist at Gateway Investment Advisers. "It's not just the Trump rally."
Just look at Netflix, for example. The stock rose Monday after UBS analyst Doug Mitchelson upgraded it to a buy.
He boosted his subscriber targets for the company -- and said that even though Trump's new FCC chair may eliminate Net neutrality rules that now help Netflix, he's not overly concerned that regulatory changes will hurt Netflix or other techs too severely.
There's also the fact that other Trump policies -- particularly tax reform -- could boost tech stocks substantially.
If Apple, Microsoft (MSFT, Tech30), Google, Oracle (ORCL, Tech30), Cisco and other large techs with a lot of cash overseas are allowed to bring the cash back, or repatriate it, at a lower tax rate, they may invest more in R&D, buy back stock, boost dividends or acquire more companies.
And at the end of the day, as long as investor sentiment about Trump remains strong -- CNNMoney's Fear & Greed Index continues to show signs of Greed in the market -- then big tech stocks and other blue chips should continue to lead.
"This is still the most hated bull market ever but we're not seeing any signs of that trend turning," said Scott Colyer, CEO & chief investment officer of Advisors Asset Management.
"This is not going to be the last merger worldwide, and it's not going to be happening just in Europe by the way," Volkswagen CEO Matthias Mueller told CNN's Eleni Giokos in an interview. "There will be a consolidation of the automotive market internationally."
"We're... following developments and on that basis we're going to take a decision going forward," he added.
 How many of GM's 38,000 jobs in Europe will survive?
Mueller confirmed reports that Volkswagen is talking with India's Tata Motors (TTM) about building a new range of cars for emerging markets.
He declined to comment on the timetable but expressed confidence that a deal could be reached.
"We are in very good talks with our colleagues from Tata... and I think in the future there could be a joint project at the end of it," he said at the Geneva auto show.
 French carmakers return to India after long absence
Mueller took charge of Volkswagen after his predecessor Martin Winterkorn resigned in the wake of the diesel emissions scandal. Since then, the German company has overhauled its strategy with an emphasis on electric cars and autonomous driving.
Volkswagen's biggest factory outside Germany is in Mexico, where it is ramping up production of its Tiguan SUV despite threats by President Trump to renegotiate the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA).
Mueller said he was "worried" about protectionist rhetoric but added he believed "these things will be discussed in a very rational type way."
"We have always based our activities on NAFTA and we hope that will be possible with the new administration also," he said.
-- Chris Liakos contributed reporting.
Notice that Trump didn't say paid leave for moms, he said paid FAMILY leave. That's a much bigger promise than what he said on the campaign trail.
"It's hugely significant to say family leave," says Brad Harrington, executive director of the Boston College Center for Work & Family. "For a Republican, it's unusual."
When he was running for office, Trump rolled out a plan to give six weeks of paid maternity leave, but only for working moms who give birth. Family leave typically means paid leave for moms and dads and for people caring for a really ill relative (e.g. a 75-year-old parent who has a stroke).
The White House refused to clarify if Trump's policy has truly changed, but the wording shift meant a lot to moms, dads and activists pushing for change.
 Paid family leave gains momentum in U.S.
Wide support in U.S. for paid family leave
"It's critical that it's shifting to paid family leave and away from maternity leave," says Victoria Budson, executive director of Harvard's Women and Public Policy Program. Budson points to a lot of research showing that dads need time to bond with babies as well, and that America's aging Baby Boomers are likely to put strain on their younger relatives who have to care for them.
Many credit his daughter, Ivanka Trump, for lobbying her father -- and Republicans in Congress -- to end America's status as the only industrialized nation that doesn't offer any paid leave for new mothers.
But it's not just Ivanka that's pushing for this. The vast majority of Americans (72% according to an AP poll last year) support it, and marquee U.S. companies like Facebook and American Express keep expanding their family leave programs by offering four months or more of paid leave. They believe it's the best way to attract and keep top talent.
"This is one of the policy issues where there is tremendous support from the American public," says Budson.
 Rust Belt voters made Trump president. Now they want jobs
Not a perfect plan
Trump hasn't unveiled any more details about his plans for child care or paid family leave since he took office. Ivanka has been working with GOP Congresswomen Cathy McMorris Rodgers of Washington and Marsha Blackburn of Tennessee to craft legislation. Both offices declined CNNMoney's request for comment.
While some praise the president and Ivanka Trump for pushing forward on this issue that has long been controversial in Republican circles (President George H.W. Bush vetoed a bill for unpaid family leave in the late 1980s because he didn't want to impose more federal regulations on companies), others say the current Trump plan needs a lot of improvement.
"It's too little. Even worse, maternity leave only is actually a step in the wrong direction," says Ellen Bravo, co-executive director of Family Values @Work. Bravo says the U.S. needs to do "at least" 12 weeks of paid leave. Trump is only proposing six. There's also concern about whether the Trump plan would cover families that adopt children.
 Trump's child care plan is gift to the rich, report says
Would poor families really benefit?
Bravo is also skeptical of Trump's plan to pay for this program, which the right-leaning American Action Forum estimates will cost $2.3 billion to $4 billion a year. During the campaign, he said the money would come from state unemployment insurance programs, but many of those are already low on funds and they usually provide only about half of a worker's prior pay, according to the left-leaning Center on Budget and Policy Priorities.
Poor families wouldn't be able to afford to take time off if they get only half their pay (or less), says Harrington of the Center for Work and Family.
On top of that, the Tax Policy Center released a harsh report last week saying Trump's plans to make child care more affordable would mostly benefit the rich.
Still, there's optimism that the Trumps may be able to bring Republicans to the table on this issue. Democratic Senator Kirsten Gillibrand crafted legislation known as the FAMILY Act that would would give up to 66% wage replacement for 12 weeks to workers who need to take time off to care for family. The bill repeatedly stalled in recent years, largely on party lines.
"Everything seems impossible until someone decides to do it," says Budson.
To email the reporter on this story, write to heather.long@cnn.com.
"It's too early to have numbers, but we're not talking hundreds," said Christian Stadler, professor of Strategic Management at Warwick University. "I think we are talking real numbers [of job losses]."
Two factors are driving the concerns: PSA needs to cut billions in costs at Opel and Vauxhall, which haven't turned a profit since 1999. And the new company will be forged against the backdrop of severe political and economic uncertainty.
PSA boss Carlos Tavares said on Monday that closing entire factories would be "a simplistic approach." But he made clear that job security would depend on workers and managers producing higher quality cars with less.
"The only thing that really protects [workers] is their ability to be at the right level of performance," he said.
Brexit fears
Prime Minister Theresa May, who is leading the U.K. out of the European Union, raised her concerns with Tavares.
She spoke to the Portuguese executive on Sunday, expressing a desire to "protect and promote" the 4,300 Vauxhall workers at factories in the U.K.
It's Brexit, though, that is most likely to determine the fate of the British car plants.
May is seeking a complete break with the EU -- a strategy that is almost certain to mean new trade barriers between the U.K. and its biggest export market.
These barriers would make it more expensive for British manufacturers to import auto components, and push up the price of cars exported to Europe. If costs go up, PSA could choose to shut its U.K. factories and blame Brexit.
But trade barriers work both ways. Cars made in Britain could appear cheaper to U.K. consumers than imports. And if May can strike trade deals with nations outside Europe, PSA's U.K. factories could tap export markets.
Workers' representatives don't want to leave it to chance. They want the government to do more than talk.
"The uncertainty caused by Brexit is harming the U.K. auto sector," said Len McCluskey, leader of British labor union Unite. "We need every assistance from the government to give this sector a fighting chance. That absolutely includes committing now to securing access to the [EU] single market and customs union."
Andreas Hoepner, associate professor of finance at Henley Business School, said that PSA will likely push the British government to provide support for the Vauxhall jobs.
In October, Japan's Nissa  (NSANF)said it had been convinced to build two new models at a massive production facility in the U.K. after getting reassurances from the British government about its plans for Brexit.
"PSA might be trying to say: 'You gave that to Nissan, you must give it to Vauxhall,' " Hoepner said.
(Nissan has since said the plant's future is not safe because of May's plan for a complete exit from Europe's unified market.)

Meanwhile, in Europe ...
The logic for PSA's purchase is based on scale. With four major brands operating under one roof, supply chains can be simplified and costs reduced.
Tavares has a earned a reputation as an effective cost cutter, but he would face stiff opposition to any job reductions in France and Germany. And with the French government as a major shareholder, PSA may come under pressure to put EU workers before their British counterparts.
Still, it might find working with Europe's famously strong labor unions easier than GM.
"Being a European company, having a lot of experience dealing with the unions, [PSA] might be better with striking deals with them," Stadler said. "American companies tend to see unions as opponents, where in Europe they are more typically seen as being in partnership."
There are other big political risks on the horizon. Far-right politician Marine Le Pen could win the French presidency on a promise to ditch the euro.
With Paris and Berlin preparing for key elections, Hoepner said it might have been more prudent for PSA to wait a few months before pulling the trigger.
"If Le Pen wins, they're going to have all kinds of problems at home," said Hoepner.
There are currently 3,144 workers at the Lansing plant. The workers who are keeping their jobs are pretty safe -- the company just invested $583 million in the plant to make the new generation of Traverses and Enclaves there.
GM has been scaling back production and employment due to lower U.S. sales.
In November, GM said it was eliminating the third shift at the nearby Lansing Grand River plant, as well as at the Lordstown Ohio plant. Those layoffs, which were the first U.S. job cuts announced by GM since 2010, took place in late January.
 GM sells 10 million cars for first time -- thanks to China
Then in December it announced plans to eliminate the third shift at its only remaining facility within Detroit city limits -- the Detroit Hamtramck plant.
The four rounds of layoffs will cut a total of 4,400 jobs. The company employed 105,000 as of the end of last year. However, GM still has more U.S. employees now than it did in 2015, when it employed 97,000 workers.
If Snap can convince investors to buy its stock despite slowing user growth and a history of operating losses, then maybe Uber, Airbnb, China's Xiaomi and big data firm Palantir could soon test the public's appetite for their stocks too.
Those four, like Snap, are among the biggest of the unicorns. They all have valuations above $10 billion and have even been dubbed "dekakorns" -- a group that also includes Uber rival/partner Didi, WeWork. Pinterest, Flipkart and Elon Musk's SpaceX.
"I'm not surprised that Snap has done this well," said Trevor Williams, a portfolio manager with Penn Mutual Asset Management, which invested in Snap before it started trading. "There is a thirst for something like this."
But even though Snap is off to a hot start so far, many other big unicorns may still want to take their sweet time going public. Wall Street has proven to be an unforgiving place for buzzy companies that fail to deliver on lofty promises.
 Snapchat worth more than Delta, Target and CBS
For every Facebook (FB, Tech30) or Google (GOOG), a company that goes public and continues to grow and mature, there are many more examples of IPOs that failed to live up to considerable hype.
Look at Twitter (TWTR, Tech30), GoPro (GPRO, Tech30), Fitbit (FIT), Etsy (ETSY), and Groupon (GRPN). (Just to name a few.)
"The sexier and more glamorous a company's IPO, the more likely it is to be overpriced at its IPO date and to suffer meaningful downwards earnings and valuation revisions in the first 8 quarters after it goes public," wrote Laura Martin, an analyst with Needham & Co., in a report about Snap on Monday.
Martin issued coverage on Snap with an "underperform" rating -- essentially, a sell. She compared Snap to a lottery ticket.
For some private companies, getting bought by a larger rival might also be a safer option than going public.
Analytics firm AppDynamics filed for an IPO at the end of last year -- but canceled the IPO and sold itself in January to Cisco (CSCO, Tech30) for $3.7 billion instead.
Of course, a company as large as Uber or Airbnb might not have the option of finding someone to buy it. At $68 billion, Uber is worth $12 billion more than GM (GM) and nearly $20 billion more than Ford (F).
Heck. Airbnb's private valuation of $30 billion makes it worth more than Hyatt (H), Hilton (HLT) and Holiday Inn owner InterContinental (IHG). It's worth only about $4 billion less than Marriott (MAR).
It's still not clear if Snap will continue to ride high once it reports its first couple of quarters of earnings -- or losses, as the case may be -- as a public company.
Another recent IPO, software company Nutanix (NTNX), plunged 26% Friday following disappointing earnings. The stock was down another 6% Monday.
Many investors might also rush for the exits once they are legally allowed to sell shares.
 Oh, Snap? You get NO say in how Snapchat is run
Even Penn Mutual's Williams concedes that could be an issue.
"Expect more volatility in the stock when the lockup expiration is over," he said. "And Snap still has a lot they need to prove with their business plan."
With that in mind, many other big unicorns will probably be content to let Snap be their guinea pig. If Snap continues to do well as the year progresses, more private giants may finally file for their own IPOs.
But if not, the Ubers and Airbnbs of the world may continue to kick the IPO can down the road to 2018 and perhaps even farther than that.
No announcement has been made about which personalities will be affected, but it seems those with contracts up for renewal may be cut first.
ESPN may also buy out some contracts that aren't ending soon, according to sources.
"We have long been about serving fans and innovating to create the best content for them," ESPN said in a statement. "Today's fans consume content in many different ways and we are in a continuous process of adapting to change and improving what we do. Inevitably that has consequences for how we utilize our talent. We are confident that ESPN will continue to have a roster of talent that is unequaled in sports."
 Why Disney should cut the cord and spin off ESPN
The last time ESPN cut talent was in 2015. Keith Olbermann and Bill Simmons, both of whom had expensive contracts, were among the big names who were cut loose.
Later that year, ESPN also laid off about 300 employees -- roughly 4% of the network's global workforce. During those layoffs, hosts, reporters and commentators generally weren't affected. ESPN also had a round of layoffs in 2013.
The cuts came as growing numbers of viewers unsubscribed from the cable channel, even as it's paying for costly long-term TV deals with pro sports leagues.
At the time of the 2015 cuts, it was reported that ESPN was told by its parent company, Disney, to "trim $100 million from the 2016 budget and $250 million in 2017."
The company stuck to that pledge, even as most of the nation's toy industry shifted production overseas in the 1980s to cut costs.
"It's a lot easier to run a toy factory in China where requirements like employee protections don't exist," Gessert said.
Keeping production at home allowed American Plastic Toys to maintain continuous oversight of quality and integrity, he explained. When the company thought about sending its product molds overseas, they feared they would lose control of the designs and risk intellectual property loss if they didn't get the molds back.
 Chicago factory's rare mission: Manufacture eyewear in U.S.
So American Plastic Toys stayed American. The company employs 300 workers across five facilities in Michigan and Mississippi, and its factories run on a 24-hour weekday schedule.
American Plastic Toys makes more than 300 different toys for toddlers and preschoolers: plastic pail-and-shovel sets, cars, trucks, play kitchens, dollhouses, wagons, and toy strollers. They're sold in stores like Wal-Mart (WMT) and Walgreens (WBA).
All of the plastic is bought domestically, said Gessert, and only 10% of toys include imported parts. The toys' prices start at $2 and cap at $100. The company is profitable, though Gessert declined to share specific financial information, and full-time employees receive a benefits package including healthcare and a 401(k).
A toymaker in the heart of the auto industry
"We're one of the most consistent employers in 50 years and probably the longest-running employer in the communities surrounding all three of our main facilities," said Gessert.
Pat Hebert, facility manager, has been with American Plastic Toys for 29 years. His is one of many multi-generational families. "We have several employees who've been with us for over four decades," he said.
Hebert's father helped set up a company factory in Rose City, Michigan, in the 1970s. It's where Hebert eventually joined him, first spending summers and learning the ropes of handling stock, molding and assembly line production.
 Chinese manufacturers are setting up shop in the U.S.
In Walled Lake, a city of about 7,000, American Plastic Toys is a source of pride and a symbol of resilience. The 280,000 square-foot plant is the largest building in the small community. The outskirts of town are dotted with firms servicing Detroit's automotive industry, but the area lacks much other industry.
American Plastic Toys also works with area colleges to bring in interns, ensuring a future pipeline of workers.
 Trump's win pushed this manufacturer to return to America
Not offshoring has helped ensure longevity, Gessert said, as American Plastic Toys can "control the production process from start to finish."
Staying close to its main market has also helped the toymaker to be nimble: The manufacturer refreshes its product mix twice a year and can quickly react to market trends.
It's able to reduce costs by selling a higher volume of products, as bulk production is less expensive than manufacturing multiple small orders.
The company also tweaked its production strategy over time in a "defensive move," Gessert said. "We shifted our toy mix from small labor-intensive items to larger items like kitchen sets that needed less labor to make."
Looking forward, Gessert wants to keep innovating. "The toy business is seasonal. So you have to figure out how to keep your workers busy 12 months of the year," he said.
One idea: Expand outside of toys into home-focused products.
"It's important to not have tunnel vision but stay agile and try new things," he said.
The 19 retail and clothing companies on the distressed list include Sears and Kmart owner Sears Holdings (SHLD), J. Crew, Payless, Claire's, Rue21 and True Religion.
The report is a sobering reminder of the consequences of the rise of e-commerce, especially Amazon (AMZN, Tech30).
"It's been a downward spiral for traditional retailers," said Christian Magoon, CEO of Amplify ETFs, which last year launched a fund that tracks online-focused retailers.
"The model of online retailers is winning out. They are more competitive on pricing, they have better selection, and their convenience level is quite high," Magoon said.
Online retailers are also free of the substantial real-estate and labor costs that weigh down brick-and-mortar stores.
 Target has terrible holiday and warns of awful 2017
Recent weeks have provided new evidence of the struggles of traditional retail. Sears stock recently plunged to an all-time low, JCPenney (JCP) announced plans to shutter up to 140 stores, and Target (TGT) shocked Wall Street with terrible holiday sales.
All that comes on the heels of tens of thousands of retail layoffs and the bankruptcies of RadioShack and Sports Authority over the past two years.
It's no wonder the Amplify Online Retail ETF (IBUY) has vastly outperformed its physical peers. The online ETF is up 18% since its debut last April, compared with a 4% decline for the broader SPDR S&P Retail ETF (XRT), which tracks mostly traditional retailers.
So will more retailers go the way of RadioShack?
Moody's said the key is that the 19 distressed retailers have "stressed liquidity," meaning they may have trouble quickly accessing cash should they need it.
That's a big deal because these struggling retailers owe a combined $3.7 billion in debt over the next five years. Nearly a third of it is due by the end of next year.
Moody's warned that a poorly timed debt maturity could "quickly trigger default" for a company that has limited financial flexibility.
For now, even struggling retailers can turn to the bond market to borrow money and roll over their debt. But Moody's said that "could change abruptly" if U.S. interest rates rise rapidly or sentiment shifts.
The other clothing companies on the distressed list are Gymboree, Nine West, NYDJ Apparel, Toms Shoes, David's Bridal and Totes. The other retailers are Fairway Market, Tops, Bon-Ton Stores, 99 Cents Only Stores, Savers thrift stores, Tucker Rocky and Charming Charlie.
 America's favorite retailer is...
The financial trouble threatens to infect even healthier retailers. That's because struggling retailers are forced to offer big sales to lure in shoppers. Sometimes these companies offer "irrational" discounts that drag stronger rivals "into a race to the bottom," Moody's wrote.
Traditional stores can be threatened even more if financial stress causes some retailers to liquidate their inventory or even resort to going-out-of-business sales.
Brick-and-mortar stores like Macy's (M) and Best Buy  (BBY)have been forced to adapt by spending heavily on upgrading their online platforms that now make up much of their growth. Even retail king Walmart has shelled out billions to acquire e-commerce players like Jet.com.
Even though analysts don't doubt the transformative impact of e-commerce, it actually only accounted for 8.1% of total retail sales in 2016, according to the U.S. Census Bureau. However, e-commerce sales are growing rapidly and its market share has doubled since 2009.
There are other drivers of the financial stress for traditional retailers as well.
Moody's also pointed the finger at the private-equity practice known as leveraged buyouts. This practice saddles companies with heavy amounts of debt to pay for their own takeover.
For instance, Moody's noted that retailers like Claire's and J. Crew are dealing with "weak" balance sheets after takeovers that required them to take on lots of debt.
2. Deutsche Bank raising billions: Deutsche Bank (DB) is asking investors for $8.5 billion to help improve its financial health after two years of heavy losses. Germany's biggest bank announced plans for the huge share sale on Sunday along with another overhaul of its strategy.
Deutsche Bank said it will seek to raise about €8 billion ($8.5 billion) in the coming weeks -- its fourth capital hike since 2010. The four add up to a total of about €30 billion ($32 billion), more than the bank's current market value.
Shares in Deutsche Bank were trading 6% lower following the announcement.
3. Global markets: European markets were awash in red on Monday, with top indexes in France and Germany both off more than 0.5%.
Asian markets ended mixed. The Nikkei shed 0.5% after North Korea fired four ballistic missiles into waters off Japan.
Chinese stocks advanced after the government said Sunday that it's targeting growth of "around 6.5% or higher if possible" in 2017.
4. Fed sets U.S. agenda: U.S. markets closed flat on Friday after Fed chair Janet Yellen signaled that an interest rate hike would likely come when Fed leaders meet next week.
"The markets are locked, loaded and ready -- a move is priced in, near-unanimously expected by forecasts, who on balance now also agree with the Fed's projection of three moves this year," Societe Generale strategist Kit Juckes said Monday.
The only thing that could change the Fed's plan is weak economic data, giving extra significance to Friday's U.S. jobs report.
U.S. stock futures were pointing to a negative open on Monday, but they remain near record highs.
Before the Bell newsletter: Key market news. In your inbox. Subscribe now!
5. Earnings and economics: Data on U.S. factory orders will be released at 10:00 a.m. ET. Economists expect an increase of 1%.
Gallup's U.S. Consumer Spending Measure report will also be published Monday.
A smattering of U.S. companies are set to release earnings -- but no market heavyweights are on the schedule.
Download CNN MoneyStream for up-to-the-minute market data and news
6. Coming this week:
Monday - Gallup U.S. Consumer Spending Measure Tuesday - Urban Outfitters earnings Wednesday - "A Day Without a Woman" general strike Thursday - Geneva International Motor Show Friday - U.S. jobs report
Unlike Trump, these business experts favor "relaxed immigration policies" to boost the economy.
Nearly half (49%) support an increase in U.S. immigration. Another 27% don't think Trump should make any changes to immigration policy. In other words, 216 leading business economists don't think the U.S. needs to crack down on the number of people coming into America.
"Panelists especially favor expanding the H-1B visa program for high-skill workers," says Richard DeKaser, corporate economist at Wells Fargo and NABE survey chair. Businesses continue to complain that they cannot find enough skilled workers.
 Trump's latest H-1B move has businesses worried
Why economists favor more immigration
Last week, Trump proposed the idea of a merit-based immigration system similar to Canada and Australia's where people with more degrees and specialized skills would get priority to get into the U.S. The NABE survey didn't ask specifically about that kind of a system, but the general view of business economists is that fixing the H-1B visa should be the priority of Congress and the White House, not going after illegal immigrants already in the U.S.
Only 5% of the economists surveyed believe the U.S. should spend more to deport illegal immigrants.
The Trump administration is currently trying to hire 15,000 additional immigration and border control agents. U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) officials have arrested hundreds of illegal immigrants since Trump took office.
Countries prosper when they a) have more workers and b) have more productive workers. The U.S. fertility rate just hit the lowest level on record in 2016, meaning U.S. population growth is slowing. That's why many economists think the U.S. needs more immigration, not less, to make up for fewer American families having children.
 Rust Belt voters made Trump president. Now they want jobs
Many economists believe Trump will add to debt
It's not just Trump's immigration policies that worry top business economists. A large majority (78%) of the survey respondents expect Trump to add to the U.S. debt by spending far more than his government takes in through taxes and other revenues.
Most economists want Congress and the White House to focus on reducing the federal deficit and debt. They think the way to do that is to cut or tweak Social Security and Medicare. But Trump has promised not to touch those two programs, which make up about a third of federal spending.
"Most panelists would prefer to see the deficit shrink," says NABE president Stuart Mackintosh.
The business community is also alarmed by Trump's push to erect trade barriers and redo the North America Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) with Mexico and Canada. Most survey respondents "clearly support" NAFTA, and nearly 7 out of 10 economists said trade barriers like tariffs should occur only "occasionally and tactically."
The agreement removes a financial headache for GM (GM) -- Germany's Opel and Britain's Vauxhall have lost $22.4 billion over the past 17 years. It will also make PSA Europe's second biggest carmaker after Volkswagen (VLKAY).
But it raises questions about the fate of thousands of jobs in Europe, particularly in the U.K., where Vauxhall's plants may find it even harder to compete once the country leaves the European Union.

Savings = job cuts?
Brexit could lead to trade barriers between the U.K. and EU, disrupting supply chains, pushing up the cost of components and raising the price of cars.
GM has 38,000 European employees, with more than 18,000 Opel workers in Germany and 4,300 Vauxhall employees in the U.K.
The companies said they expect the combination of Opel and Vauxhall with Peugeot and Citroen to enable cost savings in manufacturing, purchasing and research and development.
Those savings are expected to reach €1.7 billion ($1.8 billion) a year by 2026, with a "significant part" delivered by 2020, they said.
PSA shares trading in Europe advanced by 3% following the announcement.
PSA has recently turned around its own flagging fortunes in Europe. With the help of a big investment in 2014 from China's Dongfeng Motors and the French government, it has gone from near-bankruptcy to large profits.
CEO Carlos Tavares did not say exactly how he plans to turn Opel and Vauxhall into a profitable business.
Closing entire factories would be "a simplistic approach," Tavares said at a news conference. But he also warned that future plans would depend on workers and managers improving the efficiency and quality of their plants.
"People understand that the only thing that really protects them is to be at the right level of performance," he said.
Len McCluskey, leader of British labor union Unite, said he was determined to "convince the new boss ... that it makes sense for him to continue to build in Britain."
Brexit risk?
But McCluskey also said the U.K. government needs to defend jobs by negotiating a Brexit deal that will provide continued access to Europe's unified trading market.
"We need every assistance from the government to give this sector a fighting chance," the union leader said.
GM President Don Amman said he wanted to sell because diverging consumer tastes and government regulations meant that vehicles produced for the European market would bear little resemblance to models GM was selling elsewhere.
GM will retain most of Opel and Vauxhall's pension commitments. The U.S. automaker will, however, pay PSA €3 billion ($3.2 billion) to offload some smaller pension funds.
CEO John Cryan, who took up the top job in 2015, had said previously that the bank could get by without turning to markets for more money.
 Deutsche Bank plunges back into the red with $2 billion loss
Deutsche Bank's share price took a hammering in September, crashing to its lowest level in more than 20 years because of fears it didn't have the funds to cover its mounting legal costs. The bank and the German government had to deny that a bailout was in the cards.
The lender weathered that crisis, and its stock has rebounded strongly from its September lows, making a capital increase more appealing.
But the plan means current investors will take a hit: Deutsche Bank shares fell Friday as reports of the hike emerged and continued their plunge Monday, sinking around 6% in Frankfurt, after details were announced.
Cryan said in a message to employees on Sunday that shoring up the bank's capital will "remove a major source of uncertainty" and "make us significantly more attractive for our clients."
 Deutsche Bank fined for $10 billion Russian money-laundering scheme
Deutsche Bank also announced U-turns on two big strategic moves it made in 2015.
It's no longer planning to spin off its Postbank subsidiary, which has a big retail branch network. Instead, it wants to merge Postbank with its private and commercial banking business.
And it's putting its market trading operations back into the same unit as corporate and investment banking after previously splitting them up.
Cryan has been trying to untangle Deutsche Bank from a thicket of legal cases that have hindered it since the global financial crisis. The bank recently agreed a $7.2 billion settlement over toxic mortgage assets and was hit with about $630 million in fines over a Russian money-laundering scheme.
It reported a net loss of €1.4 billion ($1.5 billion) for last year, following a €6.8 billion ($7.2 billion) deficit in 2015.
He's right: Things are looking good. In January, the U.S. added 227,000 jobs -- 70,000 more than it it did in the previous month. Jobless claims just hit a 44-year low, and small business optimism is the highest it's been since 2004.
But a strong jobs report would bolster Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen's case to raise interest rates. Higher rates could stall business spending and home purchases -- so Trump shouldn't declare victory just yet.
 U.S. economy adds a strong 227,000 jobs in January
 Trump's economic boom: Three red flags
2. Geneva international Motor Show: Once again, car enthusiasts will gather in Geneva to check out the future of cars as imagined by the world's most prominent automakers.
The 87th Geneva Motor Show kicks off on Thursday, March 9th and lasts for ten days. This year, Ferrari, McLaren and Lamborghini will all debut faster, sleeker, more luxurious versions of their sports cars. Land Rover and Mercedes-Benz will showcase luxury SUVs, and they're not the only ones with goodies to display .
Although Tesla (TSLA) won't be exhibiting at the show this year, other automakers are promising to reveal new electric vehicles. Renault said it will unveil an "EV surprise," and Toyota (TM) said it will show off a new electric vehicle concept called the "i-TRIL Concept." Should be interesting.
 Cool cars from the 2016 Geneva Motor Show
3. Urban Outfitters earnings: Urban Outfitters (URBN) will report its fourth quarter earnings on Tuesday. Last quarter, the retailer's stock slipped after it missed Wall Street's expectations.
But Urban's got a lot going for it compared to other clothing retailers. Its namesake locations are offering in-store experiences to lure customers into brick and mortar spots, and it's selling way more than just clothes. Plus, Urban Outfitters doesn't need the mall to succeed. So unlike The Limited, Macy's (M), JCPenney and other stores that rely on malls for sales, Urban Outfitters hasn't tied its fate to a fading institution.
 Nearly 44,000 retail workers have been laid off in 2016
 The Limited just shut all of its stores
4. South by Southwest starts: SXSW kicks off on Friday. The Interactive portion of the conference, which lasts until March 16th, will feature panels, parties and stunts by established brands and startups trying to break through.
This year's speakers include Shark Tank's Chris Sacca, AOL co-founder Steve Case, investor Mark Cuban and others. Expect them to talk tech, trends, investing and, as our president continues to wage a war against Silicon Valley, maybe some politics.
 Obama during SXSW 2016: We can't fetishize our phones
 More than 100 companies join legal fight against Trump travel ban
5. Coming this week:
Monday - Gallup U.S. Consumer Spending Measure
Tuesday - Urban Outfitters earnings
Wednesday - "A Day Without a Woman" general strike
Thursday - Geneva International Motor Show
Friday - Jobs report
Opel, based in Germany, and Vauxhall have been part of GM (GM) since the 1920s but they've lost money for each of the past 16 years. Those losses now add up to more than $18 billion, according to GM's own figures.
GM isn't selling just because it's losing money in Europe. It sees richer investment opportunities elsewhere, particularly in growth markets like Asia and Latin America. Rather than spend more money trying to revive its brands in a highly competitive European market, it may prefer to invest for a better return elsewhere.
"This is a smart move for a company that sees far more potential in other global markets, while also investing heavily in the autonomous future of personal transportation," said Karl Brauer, executive publisher of the Autotrader and Kelley Blue Book automotive web sites in an email.
Britain's impending exit from the European Union has only made the prospects for Opel and Vauxhall more difficult.
Brexit could lead to trade barriers between the U.K. and EU, disrupting supply chains, pushing up the cost of components and raising the price of cars.
 Thousands of auto jobs in jeopardy as U.K. faces Brexit
The proposed GM-PSA deal will create a European autos giant to rival market leader Volkswagen (VLKAY).
But it is already sparking a backlash among European politicians and labor leaders in Britain and Germany who are worried that it will lead to plant closures and job cuts.
GM has 38,000 European employees, with more than 18,000 Opel workers in Germany and 4,300 Vauxhall employees in the U.K. In France, unions worry that PSA could also be in line for job cuts if a deal is struck.
PSA has turned around its own flagging fortunes in Europe. With the help of a big investment in 2014 from China's Dongfeng Motors and the French government, PSA (PSAV) has gone from near-bankruptcy to large profits.
PSA CEO Carlos Tavares has reportedly said he is considering taking Opel to markets outside Europe where customers won't consider buying a French car in the hope that a German marque will make a better impression.

Some Opel models are sold in the United States and China, where they're branded as Buicks. In Europe, Opel also sells a version of the American-made Chevrolet Bolt electric car called the Ampera-e, and a version of the Chevrolet Volt plug-in hybrid, also built in America, called the Opel Ampera.
Selling off Opel and Vauxhall will leave GM almost entirely without a European presence. Beyond those brands, GM sells a few hundred Cadillac cars in Europe each year. Cadillac dealers there also sell a small number Corvettes and Chevrolet Camaros.
GM has come close to selling off Opel before. In 2009, a deal was reached to sell the brands to Magna International, an auto parts maker. That deal was abandoned after GM completed bankruptcy restructuring.
The Chinese government used a substantial dose of stimulus to keep the economy chugging along in 2016. Public investment in infrastructure skyrocketed and bank lending soared despite repeated warnings about the country's high level of corporate debt.
 Trump promises more coal and steel jobs. China is cutting 500,000
The government said cutting companies' debt burdens is one of its main priorities for the coming year. The 2017 goals were outlined by Premier Li Keqiang in a work report delivered at the start of the National People's Congress, an annual gathering of lawmakers in Beijing.
Some economists have questioned the relevance of the government's headline growth target.
"Smoothing by official statisticians and flaws in the way the GDP data are calculated mean that the official growth figures are no longer a reliable measure of China's economic performance," the research firm Capital Economics said in a report ahead of the announcement.
 China's richest lawmakers are worth over $500 billion
Last year, Chinese authorities reported that economic growth came in at exactly the same rate for three quarters in a row, which is unusually consistent for such a rapidly expanding economy.
The credibility of the official data took a further hit in January when the governor of one of China's major industrial provinces admitted officials there had been falsely boosting economic data for years.
The central government goals announced Sunday include some huge numbers that highlight the staggering scale of China's economy and the major challenge that leaders face in trying to shift it away from a traditional reliance on low-end manufacturing and state-directed investment in infrastructure.
 China announces smallest military spending increase in 7 years
The government says it wants to cut tens of millions of tons of excess capacity in inefficient industries like coal and steel, where it's laying off hundreds of thousands of workers.
Authorities are also aiming to create 11 million new jobs in urban areas this year. That's fewer than 13.1 million the government says were created last year.
-- Tim Schwarz contributed to this report.
Trump has accused companies of abusing the H-1B program as a way to hire foreign workers who take jobs away from Americans, at lower salaries.
The Trump administration says it's doing away with quick-turn processing so it can sort through a large backlog of applications and try to "reduce overall H-1B processing times."
 Tech's beloved H-1B visa is flawed. Here's why.
Immigration lawyers said Saturday that the change will leave many people and companies in limbo.
"The message specifically mentions they want to bring down the backlogged time, but I worry about my clients, employers and individuals who will be affected by these delays," said Tahmina Watson of Watson Immigration Law. "This suspension is not good for American businesses by any means."
Watson said "I strongly suspect delays will continue."
H-1Bs are at the center of controversy as President Trump vows to deliver on campaign promises to reduce immigration.
There are several efforts in Congress to change how the H-1B program works. One bipartisan bill would reform the program by instructing officials to grant visas on merit, rather than through lottery.
 What to know about the H-1B visa program
Neil Ruiz, executive director of the Center for Law, Economics and Finance at George Washington University, said the Trump administration's decision to stop expedited processing could be the first step away from the lottery system.
"I think that removing premium processing may allow the administration to pick who to prioritize in the wait times for H-1B visas," Ruiz told CNNMoney.
Watson called the move a "big deal" because certain "employers and individuals require premium processing in certain situations."
Without it, she said, employers can't "plan for their businesses and act accordingly."
Rural communities need foreign doctors
Some areas of rural America, as previously reported by CNNMoney, rely heavily on immigrant medical professionals.
Thousands of doctors from abroad need H-1B visas to continue working in the U.S. after the expiration of their J-1 visas -- which permit them to complete a residency program.
Each year, more than 6,000 medical trainees from foreign countries participate in medical residency programs through J-1s, according to the American Association of Medical Colleges.
For many doctors, time is of the essence.
Once they complete their residency, physicians can either return to their home country for two years before becoming eligible to reenter the U.S. through a different immigration pathway, such as an H-1B visa, or they can apply for a J-1 visa waiver.
In the last 15 years, H-1B visas have allowed 15,000 foreign doctors to come to American to work in underserved communities.
"The lack of premium processing would mean that there would be a delay for the doctors to start working in the communities they wish to serve, which have a lack of physicians in the first place," said Ahsan Hafeez, a doctor who is in Pakistan awaiting approval of his H-1B so he can begin working in Arkansas.
Tech companies depend on immigrant workers
It's not just the medical profession that relies on expedited processing of H-1Bs. The visas are a staple in Silicon Valley. Large firms say they need the visas to bring in engineers and other high-skilled workers they can't find in the U.S.
The elimination of expedited processing will leave tech companies in limbo about the status of critical employees, said Bay Area immigration attorney Martin Lawler.
"When you're planning a project, you want to make sure you have the necessary people and skills to get it out on time," Lawler said.
India, home of many skilled immigrants who come to the U.S. on H-1B visas, is bracing for an economic impact. Local news reports have already cautioned that the change by the Trump administration will likely take a toll on IT companies next quarter. It's common for Indian IT companies to send workers to America at the last minute to work on projects.
 Indian tech graduates fear America may shut them out
Processing change could hurt students
H-1B visas are used by all manner of foreign workers -- journalists, entertainers, professors and researchers. Any could be hurt by a delay in visa processing.
But longer wait times could "be particularly harmful" for students, said Watson, the immigration lawyer.
That's because graduating students who are in the U.S. with a different type of visa -- such as a J-1 or F-1 -- cannot stay while their H-1B status is pending, she said, and they can't start working. They have to return to their home country while awaiting approval.
Now those waits could get even longer. Watson said the backlog of standard process cases is so large that officials are currently looking at applications submitted in July 2016.
--CNNMoney's Rishi Iyengar and Sara Ashley O'Brien contributed to this report
 Tesla's battle with union organizers is heating up
"The company has committed rampant safety and health violations and denied its workers their basic right to vote for a union free from fear and intimidation," Glover said in a statement.
Nissan (NSANF) staunchly denies the activists' claims, saying the United Auto Workers union is "part of a campaign to pressure the company into recognizing a union, even without employee support."
But union representatives argue that workers at the plant have not yet taken formal steps toward unionizing because they fear retaliation from the company.
 Boeing workers in South Carolina overwhelmingly reject union
In a statement Friday, Sanders said that while Nissan workers are unionized in 42 of its 45 factories around the globe, the workers at plants in Mississippi and Tennessee are not.
Activists and workers say that's caused major problems, such as health hazards and pay cuts.
"I for one am grateful for my job. But in the years since [the factory opened]...Nissan has driven down pay, eliminated benefits and imposed punishing production schedules while skimping on basic health and safety equipment," said Robin Moore, a Nissan employee from Jackson, Mississippi.
The rally is scheduled to begin at 12:30 pm CT Saturday. The march was organized by Mississippi Alliance for Fairness at Nissan.
But Trump has vowed repeatedly that only steel from American steelmakers could be used on Keystone as well as other U.S. oil pipelines. He said so the day he signed the Executive Order, as well as in his address to Congress this week.
 Keystone pipeline - How many jobs it would really create
Trump also alluded to the requirement when he met with U.S. Steel (X) CEO Mario Longhi at the White House last week.
"You're going to be doing pipelines now, you know that?" he said to Longhi. "We put you heavy into the pipeline business."
And he has said the buy-American rules were something he insisted on at the last moment.
"This took place while I was getting ready to sign," he told the CPAC conference last week. "I said, 'Who makes the pipes for the pipeline?' Well, sir, it comes from all over the world, isn't that wonderful? I said, 'Nope, it comes from the United States or we're not building one.' American steel. If they want a pipeline in the United States, they're going to use pipe that's made in the United States, do we agree?"
But it's not clear that Trump's executive order could require the use of American-made steel on any pipeline.
The order calls for the Secretary of Commerce to draft "Buy American" rules for pipeline construction "to the maximum extent possible and to the extent permitted by law."
 Seattle to cut ties with Wells Fargo over Dakota Access pipeline
TransCanada said late Friday it has already has purchase agreements for the steel pipe it will use on Keystone. It said half of the pipe will come from the Arkansas plant of India-based steelmaker, Welspun. Another 10% will come from a Welspun plant in India, the rest will be imported from Canada and Italy. In addition, it has already purchased about $800 million worth of other goods from U.S. manufacturers.
"This project will support U.S. energy security, create thousands of well-paying U.S. jobs and provide substantial economic benefits," the company said in the statement.
But most of those jobs are short-term. Once the pipeline opens it would require only 35 full-time permanent jobs to run it, according to an government estimate that TransCanada does not dispute.
-- CNN's Kevin Liptak contributed to this report.
"This situation typically occurs in the rare situation where a vehicle is stranded in a significant amount of standing water and the engine stalls and cannot be restarted on the first try," a Mercedes spokesperson told CNNMoney.
The company said it's currently unaware of any injuries or deaths resulting from the issue.
 $4 million Lamborghini supercars recalled after fires
The recall is voluntary, and Mercedes said the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration -- which helps companies carry out recalls -- has been notified.
The company expects to alert U.S. customers about the problem over the next 60 days. To fix a vehicle included in the recall, customers are typically instructed to bring it into a dealer. Mercedes said the fix for this issue will take about an hour to complete.
Reuters reported Friday that the recall also includes roughly another 700,000 vehicles abroad. A spokesperson for the U.S. arm of Mercedes was not able to verify those numbers for CNNMoney.
Daimler AG did not immediately respond to CNNMoney's request for comment.
Both agencies said they are still working on their hiring plans and did not provide details on the criteria for the new hires.
Here are some of the hurdles they could face:
1. This is hiring on a massive scale
Between ICE and the CBP, President Trump wants to hire 15,000 agents. In his immigration reform plan, Trump said he wants "to triple the number of ICE agents" by adding 10,000 more officers. He would also significantly boost the ranks of the CBP, which had nearly 20,000 agents in fiscal 2016.
 Trump's merit-based immigration system: Who would get in?
With unemployment the lowest it's been in eight years, the job market is fairly saturated. "We have almost full employment, so you're competing... against other government agencies, some of which pay more, and you're competing against the private sector," Kerlikowske said.
An entry-level ICE agent starts at nearly $63,000 a year, while an entry-level border patrol agent starts at a little more than $52,000 per year, according to the agency's website.
The last hiring surge was under President George W. Bush. More than 7,000 border patrol agents were added between fiscal years 2006 and 2009.
2. Tests, tests and more tests
There are currently a series of requirements candidates must meet from the start. First, applicants must be younger than 37 when they join the team (unless they're a veteran or had another government law enforcement job).
Prospective ICE agents also must have at least a bachelor's degree. They have to take an entrance exam that tests critical thinking and complete a physical exam, a medical exam, a drug test and a background investigation. Any past arrests, drug use or financial issues may be flagged, though ICE doesn't say it will automatically disqualify a candidate.
Then there's a 16-week basic training program, which includes a five-week Spanish language training course, seven written tests and another physical assessment. Trainees can only score below 70% on one of the written tests -- and, if you do, you only have one chance to pass a makeup exam.
Applicants for CBP jobs must also successfully complete an entrance exam, an interview, a medical exam, a drug test, a physical fitness test, a polygraph (or lie detector) test and a background investigation before receiving an offer.
 In Arizona, the mandated use of E-Verify has had mixed results
It takes more than 200 days to hire ICE and CBP personnel, according to a report by government inspectors entitled DHS Is Slow to Hire Law Enforcement Personnel.
And it isn't always smooth sailing. Many applicants balk at all the hoops they have to jump through, according to testimony before Congress by three Homeland Security commissioners in April. More than 40% of CBP applicants failed to either schedule or show up for their entrance exams, which is only step two of the process.
The polygraph tests are also a sticking point. In 2010, CBP found that 60% of applicants who took a polygraph exam failed, according to congressional testimony by assistant commissioner James Tomsheck. Most flunked because they didn't disclose prior drug use or criminal history, he said, which knocks them out of the running.
The agency has not yet responded to a request for more updated data.
Like ICE recruits, CBP agents must go through an intensive training program after they're hired. They're required to complete 58 days of integrated law courses, physical training and firearms and driving instruction. Anyone who isn't fluent in Spanish must also take a 40-day language training program.
There are ways the process can be streamlined, but cutting corners could cause big problems later on, said Jay Ahern, a Bush-era appointee who led the CBP in 2009 and 2010.
"I certainly hope that none of the requirements are relaxed," Ahern said. "Each of the steps that we've put in over the years are there for good reason."
The Department of Homeland Security confirmed that it's examining its options to beef up staffing.
"U.S. Customs and Border Protection will maintain our current high standards of recruiting the best America has to offer," said CBP spokesman Michael Friel. "To meet our critical hiring needs, we are exploring ways to recruit individuals that the federal government has already vetted to work in sensitive positions, such as military and federal law enforcement officers while also working to omit redundancies in the hiring process."
3. There are thousands of jobs to backfill
Kerlikowske said that there were 1,200 openings when he left the agency in January, despite a major hiring push during his tenure.
There's been a dearth of applicants for frontline border patrol positions at the nation's ports of entry, the Homeland Security officials testified in April. Staff departures have also posed a major challenge.
In fiscal 2015, CBP had to hire an additional 2,000 frontline employees just to stem losses, the commissioners said. They testified that "losses were significantly outpacing gains."
Some recruits have found it difficult to adjust to life in remote regions on the border, especially if they have young families, Ahern said. Many left for personal reasons, but others found the job too intense.
"[There's] long hours, difficult conditions, the physical assaults they actually have to go through," Ahern said. "People may think they're ready for that, when in fact they're not."
4. It's going to be pricey
The hiring surge will be costly. And the process can't kick off in earnest until Congress passes the budget for fiscal 2018.
For fiscal 2017, ICE only requested $6.6 million to hire 100 new officers. Meanwhile, CBP requested $3.83 billion to maintain a staff of 21,070 border patrol agents.
The CBP's spokesman Greg Moore said the agency would not estimate how long its new hiring effort will take or how much it will cost.
ICE also said it is still working to implement a hiring plan but would not provide any further details.
That means that employers can still find significantly cheaper labor in Mexico. It also means that Mexican workers don't have the money to buy higher-priced U.S.-made goods.
 Wilbur Ross approved by Senate as Trump's commerce secretary
He made a similar point at his confirmation hearing. "The minimum wage in Mexico has barely changed in pesos for quite a few years. And the peso has depreciated quite a lot against the dollar," he told senators. "So on a purchasing power basis, the average Mexican worker is far worse off than he or she was five or 10 years ago. That was not the original intent of NAFTA."
Ross is wrong when he says that the Mexican minimum wage has "barely gone up in peso terms." The Mexican minimum wage has increased 11 times since 2009, rising by about 50%. The U.S. minimum wage has not increased since 2009.
But even with all those increases, the Mexican minimum wage is a fraction of the U.S. minimum wage. Workers there must be paid at least 80 pesos a day, which works out to only about $4. The U.S. minimum wage is $7.25 an hour, or $58 for an 8-hour day.
Ross wasn't asked on either occasion what he thought about the campaign to raise the minimum wage in the U.S. But in the past the billionaire secretary has opposed the idea. He argued that a higher minimum wage would hurt workers because they will be replaced by robots and automation.
 Even Trump voters want minimum wage raised
"They ought to be running ads against the minimum wage increases saying 'Only robots want the higher minimum wage,'" he told Fox Business in November 2015.
The Commerce department did not respond to a request for comment from Ross on the U.S. or Mexican minimum wages
During Trump's campaign, he was all over the place on his minimum wage views. At one point he said it was "too high," then he said he would support raising it to $10 an hour.
The U.S. minimum wage workers in the U.S. have also lost ground due to inflation. The U.S. minimum would need to be $8.21 an hour today to the same purchasing power that the $7.25 minimum wage had in 2009, the last time the U.S. minimum wage increased.
-- CNNMoney's Heather Long contributed to this report
These tax credits have long been the basis of the GOP plan, appearing in both House Speaker Paul Ryan's A Better Way blueprint from 2016 and the Empowering Patients First bill authored by Health Secretary Tom Price in 2015 when he was in the House.
A draft replacement proposal that was leaked last month calls for providing credits of up to $4,000 to lower the premiums of those who don't get coverage through their employers or the government.
 Under GOP draft of Obamacare repeal plan, a lot of people could lose coverage
But in recent weeks, conservative Republicans in both the House and the Senate have come out against the GOP leadership plan. They say its tax credits are too similar to Obamacare's subsidies, which are also refundable tax credits but are based on an individual's income and the cost of coverage in their area.
@RandPaul Renaming and keeping parts of Obamacare, new entitlements and extending medicaid expansion are not the #FullRepeal we promised
Some are also concerned that GOP leaders want to pay for their plan by reducing the tax benefits of employer-sponsored plans. This controversial measure could ultimately drive even more people to the individual market, said Representative Mark Meadows, who heads the conservative Freedom Caucus.
Here are the two main beefs:
First, the tax credits are refundable. This lets everyone get the full benefit of the credit even if they pay little or no taxes, which is the case for many lower-income Americans. It's key to allowing these folks to be able to afford health insurance.
To Meadows, this would create a Medicaid-type program that has not proven effective in controlling health care costs.
 GOP leaders may dare fellow Republicans to vote against Obamacare repeal
"We are sending federal assistance in a newly created method that somehow we think will work better than what we've had [in Obamacare]," said Meadows, who noted that he met with Senator Rand Paul to discuss the GOP leadership's proposals. "We are not ignoring the real needs of the working poor. [But] the fundamental question is how to do it in a way that's sustainable and drives down health care costs."
Second, the tax credits are based on age. This would solve one of Obamacare's big problems -- that it is too costly for many middle class Americans who make too much to qualify for the subsidy.
But it also means that anyone buying individual insurance will get government assistance, even if they are rich.
"So you can be a millionaire and not have employer-based health care and you're going to get a check from the federal government -- I've got a problem with that," Meadows said last month.
 Top House conservatives would vote against draft Obamacare repeal bill
Republican leaders are now looking at limiting the ability of the wealthy to claim the credit. Regardless, only a few better-off Americans would qualify for it because most have health insurance through their jobs.
This tinkering is not what conservative Republicans were thinking of when they promised to repeal Obamacare. To them, the GOP leadership plan creates another entitlement program, meaning that it provides an open-ended government benefit to anyone who meets the criteria. In this case, it's buying coverage on the individual market.
"You are just swapping one financing structure for another financing structure," said Edmund Haislmaier, senior research fellow in Health Policy Studies at the Heritage Foundation.
Instead, the Freedom Caucus has endorsed a plan authored by Paul and Representative Mark Sanford that would provide a tax credit of up to $5,000 for contributions to Health Savings Accounts. It would also allow people to pay their premiums with HSA funds.
HSAs disproportionately benefit higher-income Americans because only they have enough disposable income to fund them. Acknowledging this, Meadows said some lawmakers are looking at seeding the accounts of the working poor with federal funds to help them to pay for coverage.
Lauren Fox and MJ Lee contributed to this story.
 Rust Belt voters made Trump president. Now they want jobs
AT&T praised the deal in a statement Thursday. "It maintains one of the most robust health care plans in the nation," the company said. "The agreement also includes two weeks of paid parental leave to help mothers or fathers bond with a newborn or newly adopted child."
The decision to add 3,000 jobs in the U.S. marks a significant concession by AT&T (T, Tech30). The issue is likely to come up in other negotiations. While this contract would cover AT&T Southwest workers, discussions are still underway between AT&T and workers in its other divisions, such as wireless and customer service.
About 21,000 wireless retail and call center employees across 36 states have been working under a contract extension since February 11.
 On Mexico auto jobs, Trump misses the point. Most workers make parts, not cars.
One of the union's primary concerns has been AT&T's tendency to send jobs overseas, where labor is cheaper. In a statement from February 10, CWA said AT&T has "chosen to cut more than 8,000 call center jobs and offshore thousands of jobs to Mexico" and several other countries since 2011.
"AT&T is underestimating the deep frustration wireless retail, call center and field workers are feeling right now with its decisions to squeeze workers and customers, especially as the company just reported more than $13 billion in annual profits," said Dennis Trainor, who is vice president of CWA District 1, in a statement last month.
A merger deal between AT&T and CNN parent company Time Warner (TWX) is currently undergoing review by regulators.
--CNNMoney's Chris Isidore contributed to this report
Homex booked revenue from a development in the Mexican state of Guanajuato, where it claimed that every home was built and sold by the end of 2011.
But satellite images taken in March 2012 showed that tens of thousands of those homes were "nothing but bare soil," according to the SEC.
Homex wronged investors by reporting numbers that were "almost completely made up," Stephanie Avakian, acting director of the SEC's enforcement division, said in a statement.

Without admitting or denying the allegations, Homex agreed to settle SEC accounting fraud charges. The settlement, filed in federal court in California, is subject to a judge's approval.
Homex didn't respond to a request for comment.
 Drugs, prostitutes used to bribe pension fund manager
It's highly unusual for the SEC to use satellite imagery to document accounting fraud. The agency declined to answer questions about whether this was a first or how exactly it detected the alleged fraud. But in a statement, it boasted about using "innovative investigative techniques" like satellites to crack the case.
Satellite images have become a new tool in recent years for hedge funds and other sophisticated investors to make investing decisions. For instance, images of empty parking lots on Black Friday can be a hint to investors that a major retailer is likely to report poor sales.
Even though Homex is based in Mexico, the SEC claimed jurisdiction because the company's stock had been listed both in Mexico and on the New York Stock Exchange.
In fact, the SEC said people and entities in the United States invested hundreds of millions of dollars in Homex, which traded under the ticker symbol HXM until it was delisted prior to going bankrupt in April 2014. Homex emerged from bankruptcy in October 2015 under new ownership.
Homex also sold $400 million of bonds to American investors in 2012, presumably using financial documents that the SEC now claims were cooked.
The SEC also issued a trading suspension on Friday in Homex shares, which had continued to trade in the United States on the so-called "pink sheet" over-the-counter markets.
The Fed last raised rates in December -- only its second rate hike in about a decade. A rate increase would be another sign that the U.S. economy is closer to full health after a very slow recovery from the Great Recession.
Rising rates affect millions of Americans, from home buyers to savers. They also have a major impact on the global economy and financial markets.
Yellen's comments come after other Fed leaders have hinted at raising, or "tightening," interest rates in the near future.
"I think the case for monetary policy tightening has become a lot more compelling," Dudley told CNNMoney on Tuesday. Dudley's comments echoed a similar sentiment from other Fed leaders.
 NY Fed President: Case for raising rates 'more compelling'
Yellen also signaled that if the economy picks up more momentum this year, the Fed may need to raise rates at a faster pace.
"The process of scaling back accommodation likely will not be as slow as it was in 2015 and 2016," Yellen noted.
Just before Yellen's speech, the odds for a March rate hike had climbed this week to 77% from 30% on Monday, according to CME Group.
In December, most Fed leaders estimated they would raise rates three or more times in 2017. That would be a big shift from the past two years when the Fed only raised rates once a year.
A key reason for the shift is President Trump. His plans to spend big to rebuild America's roads and bridges could spark demand for goods in the U.S. That spending could cause inflation to speed up. In recent years, inflation has been nearly flat.
If it does start rising quickly, that would force the Fed to raise rates faster.
But the biggest influence on the Fed's decisions is the progress of the U.S. economy. The unemployment rate is 4.8%, down from 10% in 2009. In the past eight years the economy has added over 11 million jobs. Wage growth has also picked up momentum in the past year.
Maybe Deere (DE) needs to start selling green Johnny Tractor sunglasses?
Snap (SNAP) surged 44% in its first day of trading Thursday and was up about 20% Friday after Comcast (CMCSA)-owned NBCUniversal announced it had taken a stake in the social media company.
That makes Snap worth more than $40 billion. (More on how I calculated this below.) Deere's market value is about $35 billion.
In fact, Snap's market value is greater than that of 378 of the companies in the S&P 500.
 You get NO say in how Snapchat is run
It's more than Delta (DAL) and Southwest (LUV). It's more than both Hewlett-Packards, the consulting and software firm Hewlett-Packard Enterprise (HPE, Tech30) and PC and printer maker HP (HPQ).
The company is also worth more than struggling retailer Target (TGT), video game giant Activision Blizzard (ATVI, Tech30), eBay (EBAY), General Mills (GIS) and Marriott (MAR).
Want some more well-known brand names? CBS (CBS), Sherwin-Williams (SHW), AllState (ALL), Estee Lauder (EL) and Kellogg (K) are all worth less than Snap.
 How going public may change Snapchat
And how's this for a fun twist? Snap's market value is also higher than Intercontinental Exchange (ICE) -- the parent company of the New York Stock Exchange ... where Snap went public.
Can Snap keep rising? Check back after Snap reports its first quarterly results as a public company.
But for now, profits are apparently optional for tech unicorns. Kind of like 1999. Remind me again how that worked out?
Note: In case you're wondering how I got the $40 billion figure, I used a share count of about 1.41 billion. That includes all three classes of Snap stock, as well as new shares expected to be issued through options and restricted stock grants.
The data providers for many financial websites, including CNNMoney, do not factor in this additional stock. So you may see a lower market value for Snap than what I'm reporting.
But there are some clues as to how this system would work.
 In Arizona, the mandated use of E-Verify has had mixed results
Generally speaking, merit-based systems favor highly-skilled immigrants with some level of higher education.
The U.S. had a version of a merit-based system in place until 1952. At the time, applicants were selected based on the results of a literacy test. But in the 1950s, the U.S. began moving toward a family-based immigration system.
This system, which has been in place ever since, focuses on allowing spouses and relatives of U.S. citizens into the country. The U.S. also issues special visas for workers and refugees, too.

Proponents of a merit-based system say inviting the best and brightest minds into the country will make America more competitive and reduce the number of low-income immigrants relying on public benefits.
"If you decide to come to the United States immediately following college, are you more valuable than if you come a year before your retirement? Are you more valuable if you're educated than if you're not? All of those are just common sense and we're virtually the only desirable country on Earth that doesn't have a merit system," said Rep Darrell Issa, who in 2013 wrote the SKILLS bill, which sought to increase the cap on H-1B and other types of visas for highly skilled workers, among other things. That bill was passed by the House but was not passed by the Senate.
Another compromise that sought to reform both high- and low-skilled immigration was the 2013 Gang of Eight bill that passed the Senate but died in the House. After Trump's speech, Arizona Republican Sen. Jeff Flake suggested that bill could be a "blueprint" for what the president discussed.
But there's another interpretation of merit-based systems, one that was long advocated by Attorney General Jeff Sessions when he was a senator. He and other advocates for restricting immigration envision a merit-based system where far fewer immigrants are admitted and efforts are made to ensure that those that do get into the country, don't compete with American workers.
Sens. Tom Cotton, of Arkansas, and David Perdue, of Georgia, have proposed a bill that would cut U.S. immigration by half, by cutting back on family immigration, lowering refugee visas and ending diversity lotteries. That approach has far less support in the Senate.
In a statement Dan Stein, who is President of Federation for American Immigration Reform, a longtime Sessions ally and like-minded group, said the shift to merit-based immigration would "ensure that we can maximize the benefits of immigration while minimizing the downside."
Critics of merit-based systems say they unfairly favor wealthy immigrants and cut off a crucial supply of low-skilled workers. They also note that immigrants do not rely on public benefits as much as Trump and other conservatives claim they do.
 How immigrants helped save the economy of Akron, Ohio
"Family immigration has not ever been proven to be a drain on society," said Leon Fresco, former head of the U.S. Department of Justice's Office of Immigration Litigation during President Obama's administration. "Its entire premise is that the family takes charge of the immigrant."
Those looking for insights into Trump's plan could look to Canada and Australia. Both countries use point-based systems to assess whether a person qualifies to enter the country as a skilled worker. Applicants earn points based on things like their level of education, age, work experience, ability to speak English (or in Canada, French as well) and whether they have a job waiting for them.
Canada's federal skilled worker system, for example, awards a person who has a Ph.D 25 points, while a person with a master's gets 23. If an applicant scores a total of 67 points or higher, they can qualify to immigrate to Canada as a skilled worker.
Fresco said a points-based system may seem appealing, but there is one problem: Without a job offer, once these highly skilled immigrants arrive there is no guarantee that they can get work in their respective field. "If you do it solely on points and not on if the person has a job waiting for them, then you get a lot of 'Ph.D cabdrivers,'" he said.
And focusing solely on highly skilled immigrants won't help industries like farming and construction that rely heavily on low-skilled workers. Many employers in these industries say they are struggling to find workers and it's nearly impossible to find Americans willing to fill the jobs.
Competition for workers in the agricultural industry, for example, has sent average farm worker wages up 5% in the past year, to $12 an hour, according to the U.S. Department of Agriculture figures.
One of the biggest hurdles for these industries is that there aren't enough options to help low-skilled workers to legally immigrate to the U.S., said Maria Lorena Cook, a professor of comparative labor at Cornell University.
"It is precisely this lack of legal immigration options for many low-skill immigrant workers, coupled with the structural dependence of broad sectors of the U.S. economy on immigrant workers, that is responsible for the large number of undocumented immigrants in the country today," she said.
 Sanctuary restaurants vow to protect undocumented workers
Both Canada and Australia offer avenues for lower-skilled immigrants to enter the country as well, but these are usually dependent on the immigrant having a job offer in hand first.
Canada has a guest worker program which serves the nation's agriculture industry, for example. It also has a Provincial Nominations Program in which its provinces can petition for immigrants who have the skills, education and work experience needed there.
"We still have a lot of question marks for what [Trump's merit-based immigration system] means, but it opens the door for Congress to start having more substantive conversations that could lead to legislation that could provide a legal and stable workforce for our farmers," said Kristy Boswell, director of Congressional relations with the American Farm Bureau Federation.
The Mexican currency shot up as much as 2.4%, a major gain for one of the world's most traded currencies, before falling a bit.
The peso plunged after President Trump won the election. The Mexican economy relies heavily on trade and investment from the United States, and Trump has threatened to build a border wall, slap tariffs on Mexican goods and withdraw from NAFTA, the free trade agreement with Canada and Mexico.
 Trump administration: We may ignore the World Trade Organization
But Ross is Trump's top negotiator, and his comments Friday eased investors' concerns about the administration's trade agenda.
Trump blames NAFTA for a flood of manufacturing jobs from the United States to Mexico, and Ross echoed that sentiment.
But while Trump has called NAFTA a "one-sided deal," under which Mexico wins and the United States loses, Ross acknowledged that Mexican workers haven't reaped major wage gains from the trade agreement.
"The minimum wage for the peso has barely gone up in peso terms," Ross said. "Mexican workers are not really better off than they were some time ago."
Ross also said the two countries should consider mechanisms to stabilize the relationship between the peso and the dollar.
As an example, Ross recalled when the United States established lines of credit for Mexico in 1994 and 1995, when the peso was severely declining.
"I think we need to also think about some other mechanisms for making the peso-dollar exchange rate a bit more stable," Ross said.
The increases take effect June 1 and will affect about 35 million members. Costco typically raises fees every few years.
The company made the announcement on Thursday as it released its latest earnings, which disappointed Wall Street. Sales and profits were lower than expected. Shares of Costco (COST) fell 4% in early trading Friday.
Costco is facing tough competition from Sam's Club, the warehouse company owned by Walmart (WMT), and Target (TGT). Both have lowered prices to woo more customers.
Chief financial officer Richard Galanti told analysts the challenges posed by the two big-box giants is "formidable."
 Costco is still one of America's favorite retailers
Lower food commodity prices have also triggered something of a grocery store price war. That's hurt Costco as well as supermarkets Kroger (KR) and Whole Foods (WFM).
Costco executives mentioned "deflation" 26 times during their conference call with analysts. They said it has hit not just food but electronics -- another key category for the company. TV prices in particular have been falling sharply.
Profits from the company's gasoline sales were lower as well.
Costco is also in the middle of a transition with its new credit card partners. Last year, Costco replaced American Express (AXP) as the issuer of its co-branded membership cards in favor of Citigroup (C) and Visa (V).
The company said the credit card shift has boosted its profit margins. But it wasn't enough to offset lower prices for many of its products.
"Instead of chasing shadows that don't exist, we hope the South Korean side will heed the voice of the people and take concrete actions to avoid causing further damage to bilateral relations," said Geng Shuang, a spokesman for China's Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
At least one Chinese travel company, Tuniu, has already stopped sales of South Korean trips with immediate effect. The online travel firm said in a statement Friday that it objected to the THAAD deployment and a decision by the Lotte conglomerate to make land available for the missiles.

South Korea's Ministry of Culture, Sports and Tourism said it had learned that Chinese authorities summoned representatives of travel agencies in Beijing on Thursday and instructed them to stop selling South Korean tours from March 15.
"The instruction was unofficial but China has a tendency not to give official orders for sanctions," said Wang Gi-young, a director at the ministry.
 China is crushing the U.S. in 'economic warfare'
It wasn't immediately clear if other Chinese tour operators were joining Tuniu in its boycott. China's National Tourism Administration didn't immediately respond to a request for comment.
The stakes are high. Of the 17 million people who visited South Korea last year, eight million were Chinese, according to data from the Korea Tourism Organization.
China is also South Korea's biggest trading partner, accounting for about a quarter of its exports.
"Korea is a lot more dependent on China than the other way around," said Krystal Tan of Capital Economics. "China is a much larger economy."
Investors are clearly worried about the escalation in tension and the potential fallout on tourism. Shares in South Korean companies with big duty-free businesses plunged in Seoul on Friday. Hotel Shilla dropped 13% and Shinsegae fell 5%.
 Why South Korean companies are getting the cold shoulder in China
Beijing has previously threatened Lotte, a South Korean retail group with a major presence in China, for providing land for THAAD.
"Lotte stands to lose Chinese customers and the Chinese market. That would be a very large slice out of their business pie," China's official news agency, Xinhua, said in a commentary last month.
In recent months, Beijing has also placed restrictions on South Korean cosmetics and even denied visas to two South Korean classical artists who were set to perform in China.
-- Yoonjung Seo, Steven Jiang and Serenitie Wang contributed to this report.
Gold prices were driven lower this week after William Dudley, the president of Federal Reserve Bank of New York, told CNNMoney that U.S. interest rates could be hiked in the "near future."
Low rates have helped gold because investors had little reason to own U.S. bonds that yield next to nothing. If the Fed boosts rates, bonds become more attractive.
Meanwhile, high demand for bitcoin has continued to drive prices higher.
Gold and bitcoin appeal to some investors as perceived "safe havens" that might provide security in times of turmoil. But they also have some major differences: The precious metal is a physical asset that has been sought after for hundreds of years. Bitcoin, meanwhile, appeared on the scene in 2009 and is entirely ephemeral.
Charles Hayter, CEO of digital currency comparison website CryptoCompare, said there's no direct correlation between their price.
"The truth is that bitcoin is its own asset class in its own right and does fare well in times of uncertainty," he said.
 What is bitcoin?
Bitcoin can be extremely volatile: Its value fell more than 30% earlier this year after authorities in China -- where the bulk of trading takes place -- stepped up scrutiny of bitcoin exchanges.
Hayter said the controversy has since receded.
"The issue where the [Chinese central bank] was reining in Chinese bitcoin exchanges has now been brushed under the carpet," Hayter said. "Moves to regulate bitcoin more stringently will bring short term woes but will ultimately strengthen the ecosystem."
Bitcoin is preferred by some people for its perceived anonymity, and it has also been used for illegal purchases of drugs and other products.
A lot of people are nervous. They see that U.S manufacturing has roared back, but the jobs -- especially $30-an-hour jobs -- have not. There's a huge debate about why these jobs disappeared: Some blame robots and machines for replacing humans; others say the jobs went to Mexico, China and beyond.
"There's kind of this quiet depression that's going on," says Matt Seely, the CEO of Quality Bending and Threading, a small manufacturing shop in Detroit. "People are OK, they're getting by, but no one's really in their happy place."
Donald Trump promised Michigan good jobs. It's a key reason why he won Michigan by 10,704 votes, the first Republican to carry the state since President George H. W. Bush in 1988. Now his supporters expect him to deliver.
"This is a manufacturing state. Like all of the states in the Rust Belt, these people are hurting. They want to work," Seely told CNNMoney.
In his first major address to Congress this week, Trump proclaimed that "dying industries will come roaring back to life." It's exactly what Seely wanted to hear.
 NAFTA is 'killing the American Dream,' Michigan workers say

From 17 employees to 5
Seely and his wife voted for Trump. They even volunteered on his campaign, the first time they ever felt motivated enough by a politician to do that. Seely, who wears a suit with a red pocket square, is a big believer in Trump's "Buy American" movement. He thinks U.S. manufacturing can -- and should -- be even stronger than it is now.
His own shop is profitable these days, but not like it used to be. In the late 1990s and early 2000, he had 17 employees and "the phone was ringing" with orders for the specialty steel products his team makes.
Now he's down to just five employees, a few of whom are college students. One is studying to be a dentist. To him, this machine job is temporary, not a place to build a career.
America has lost 5 million manufacturing jobs since 2000. Nearly 300,000 of those losses occurred in Michigan.

'I didn't think it would get this bad'
Half an hour north of Seely's shop lies Sterling Heights, a big Detroit suburb where Jim and Peggy Stewart live. The Stewarts know what it's like to scrape by. They lost their jobs and then their home in the Great Recession. In their 50s at the time with four kids at home, they set aside their pride and relied on food banks for the first time in their lives.
"I didn't think it was going to get this bad. I really didn't," Jim told CNNMoney. After working for 17 years in glass manufacturing, he found himself unemployed and competing against teens to cut grass for $10 an hour.
The Stewarts credit their church -- and their marriage -- for their ability to survive that period. Today, both have jobs again -- Jim at Ford and Peggy at a corporate security firm -- although the pay is less than they want.
Peggy voted twice for President Obama, but she went for Trump in 2016, largely because of the economy.
"I'm behind Trump because he has a spine," says Peggy, now 62. She makes $9 an hour, barely above Michigan's minimum wage. She had a similar job before the crisis. It paid $11 an hour.
In August, Trump visited Michigan and asked voters, "What do you have to lose by trying something new, like Trump?"
 Even Trump voters want the minimum wage raised
In Michigan, many want Trump to go after NAFTA

Unlike his wife, Jim wasn't convinced a billionaire like Trump (or millionaire like Clinton) would do anything for working Americans like their family. He tried to write in "Screwy Squirrel," an old cartoon character, on his presidential ballot.
Politicians "are fairly clueless as to what an average person's life is like," says Jim, now 55. One of their sons is in the Air Force. He just got word he'll be in the Middle East by April.
But there's one thing Jim really applauds Trump on so far: Getting the U.S. out of the TPP trade deal in Asia. Jim thinks trade deals like NAFTA have caused manufacturing jobs to disappear and wages to go down. CNNMoney heard that from just about everyone we met during a week of interviews in Michigan.
We "need to renegotiate NAFTA. That was Clinton and we got the stinky end of the stick on that one," says Jim. He likes his job at Ford, but he'll never earn more than about $20 because he was hired into a plant that cut a deal with the union to pay new hires there far below the $30 norm.
NAFTA, the deal with Mexico and Canada that allows goods from those countries to come into the U.S. tax free, went into effect in January 1994. U.S. manufacturing actually did well for much of the 1990s. But it's been a different story since 2000, the tipping point when manufacturing jobs began to disappear rapidly.
As manufacturing jobs declined, other sectors grew. Unemployment in Michigan has been 5% or less for the past year. It's the lowest level since 2001. But workers say there's one big problem: A lot of the jobs around now don't pay well. The Stewarts certainly feel that way. So does Angelica West.
 Trump gives America's 'poorest white town' hope
I gave up on manufacturing

West grew up in a blue collar family in Lapeer, Michigan, a city about an hour from the U.S.-Canadian border. She admits she "got in the wrong crowd" in high school and never finished. She didn't worry about it at first. She just walked into a temp agency and landed a manufacturing job.
She worked at a GM parts plant and then on the assembly line of Lesley Elizabeth, a company that makes cooking oils and spices. She figured manufacturing would be her life.
But those jobs paid minimum wage -- barely above $8 an hour in her state.
"I was only bringing home $960 a month," the soft-spoken mom, now 28 and the mother of three young boys, told CNNMoney. "Daycare alone was almost $400 to enroll my kids in."
About a year ago, she moved back in with her mother and went back to school to get her GED through a state program. Her family also receives Medicaid to cover health care. She hopes to retrain to be a nurse.
West and her mother are Trump supporters. They see him as an "action president." They especially like what he's doing on trade and immigration.
"I'm not racist at all, but I do believe in building a border [wall] to protect our country," West says, referring to Trump's promise to construct a wall along the U.S.-Mexican border. "We can't even take care of our own people right now."
 Be 'very afraid' about globalization's next phase
Even union workers are worried

Last week Trump promised, yet again, that his economic plans "will return significant manufacturing jobs to our country." He's gone as far as to vow to create 25 million jobs, the most of any president.
The jobs Trump supporters envision when he makes statements like that are the $30-an-hour auto worker jobs. CNNMoney sat down with several Ford workers in Detroit. They feel they've lived the American Dream, but even they are worried about the economy.
"I want my kids to have a future. I want my kids to have jobs," says Sal Moceri, a 61-year-old Ford factory worker and UAW member. All of his union brothers in the room nod in agreement.
There were 103,000 American UAW workers employed by Ford in 1994, the year NAFTA took effect, according to a UAW spokesman. Now there are just 56,000.
"Trump offered to bring these auto jobs back," says Frank Pitcher, 49, who hosted the interview in a large middle class home with a big-screen TV. "For me, it meant that many other Americans were going to get that same opportunity."
Moceri and Pitcher both voted twice for Obama. But in 2016, they went for Trump.
"I've been a long Democrat," says Moceri. But he felt "people needed a change."
Michigan swing voters like Moceri and Peggy Stewart feel Trump is already delivering on his jobs promise. They like what they see when companies like Carrier say they'll keep jobs in the U.S. But Moceri, an immigrant from Italy, was livid at Trump's refugee ban. Peggy Stewart thinks Trump's trying to do too much too fast.
"I hope it's not the biggest mistake of my life," Peggy Stewart said of her Trump vote. "Some of us are working too hard to fall back now."
To contact the author of this story, email heather.long@cnn.com.
-- CNNMoney's Richa Naik and Logan Whiteside contributed to this story.
Trump has vowed to "do a big number" on Dodd-Frank, calling the 2010 reform law a "disaster." He recently signed an executive order that began the process of dialing back bank regulation.
But the $171.3 billion in profits banks generated last year suggest many are doing just fine. And Democrats are likely to lean on those numbers as they seek to protect Dodd-Frank from being dismantled.
In fact, the FDIC said that out of 5,913 insured institutions, 59% of them generated profits in the fourth quarter of last year. The percentage of banks suffering losses dipped to 8.1%.
"The American banking system has certainly come back from the financial crisis. Things aren't as bad as people would like to suggest," said Nathan Dean, a financial policy analyst at Bloomberg Intelligence.
Others argue that banks should actually be thanking Dodd-Frank for their financial fortunes.
"The fact is that record profits of this period rest in significant part on the renewed confidence in finance -- and that rests on Dodd-Frank," said Robert Shapiro, who advised the Obama and Clinton administrations.
He pointed to the lighter regulation in Europe and the struggles of lenders there, particularly in Spain, Italy and Germany.
"Far from being a burden, regulation has benefited finance," said Shapiro, a senior fellow at Georgetown's McDonough School of Business.
 Trump vows to 'do a big number' on Dodd-Frank
Federal Reserve Chairman Janet Yellen recently pushed back on the argument that Dodd-Frank has made American banks less competitive.
U.S. banks are "quite profitable" and considered "quite strong relative to their counterparts," Yellen told Congress last month. Yellen credited the fact that American banks quickly built up capital after the crisis, "as a result of our insistence they do so."
Of course, none of this means that Dodd-Frank is perfect and U.S. banks don't have obstacles.
FDIC Chairman Martin Gruenberg said in the report that while the banking industry enjoyed "another largely positive quarter," the operating environment for banks "remains challenging."
In particular, banks have suffered from almost a decade of near-zero interest rates, which makes it harder for them to earn money. But bank stocks have risen lately in part due to signs that the Fed is moving to raise rates more quickly.
And there's community banks. Even Dodd-Frank co-author Barney Frank admits the reform law may have been too hard on community lenders. The former Democratic congressman recently told CNNMoney that community and midsize banks need relief from the heavy legal costs they incurred from Dodd-Frank.
The American Bankers Association, an industry group, put out a statement in response to the FDIC report that acknowledged the "solid performance" of banks in 2016.
 Yellen debunks Trump's case for killing Dodd-Frank
However, ABA chief economist James Chessen blamed "regulatory pressures and greater capital requirements" for forcing 251 bank mergers last year.
"The underlying regulatory pressures driving community banks to sell or merge can't be ignored," Chessen said, adding that there needs to be a "tailored system of regulation."
But community banks didn't perform poorly last year. The FDIC said community bank profits jumped 10.5% in the fourth quarter as revenue and loan growth outpaced the rest of the industry.
Investors have pushed stocks higher in recent months because of optimism over Trump's plans to cut regulations and slash taxes.
Before the Bell newsletter: Key market news. In your inbox. Subscribe now!
2. Fed focus: When the head of the U.S. Federal Reserve speaks, investors listen.
Fed chair Janet Yellen is set to give a speech at 1:00 p.m. ET in Chicago, Illinois, to discuss her outlook for the U.S. economy.
Fed vice chairman Stanley Fischer is also giving a speech on Friday about monetary policy in New York. It's due to start at 12:30 p.m.
3. Stocks to watch -- Costco, WPP, Nintendo: Shares in Costco (COST) dropped in extended trading after the retailer issued a disappointing earnings report.
WPP (WPPGY) stock was lower by about 6% in London after the advertising conglomerate reported earnings.
Investors balked at the "nasty combo" of disappointing forecasts for 2017 and a slowdown in the final quarter of 2016, according to Mike van Dulken of Accendo Markets.
But let's switch to something a bit more upbeat: Nintendo Switch!
Shares in Nintendo (NTDOY) jumped by 3.7% in Tokyo after the company released its newest console, which is retailing for $300 in the U.S.
Download CNN MoneyStream for up-to-the-minute market data and news
4. Coming this week:
Friday - Fed chair Yellen speaks at 1 p.m., Nintendo Switch releases worldwide
Lawmakers are gathering in Beijing for the start of the parliament's annual meetings.
 The world will have 43% more super-rich people by 2026
'Pony' Ma Huateng, co-founder and CEO of tech giant Tencent (TCEHY), is the richest delegate, with a net worth of $24 billion according to Hurun. 'Robin' Li Yanhong, the chief of internet firm Baidu (BIDU, Tech30) is also among the wealthiest: he's worth $14 billion.
The total wealth of China's super rich lawmakers dwarfs that of their American counterparts, according to the most recently available data. But the National People's Congress lacks the power of the U.S. Congress.
China's annual political meetings are mostly for show. Some voting takes place, but lawmakers always end up approving the ruling Communist Party's proposals.
The meetings do give wealthy delegates a chance to rub shoulders with some of the Communist Party's most powerful members. Those lobbying opportunities are highly valuable in a country where the party keeps a strong grip on commerce.
-- Mark Lu and Charles Riley contributed to this report.
The two banking picks follow an announcement last Thursday that the country's stock exchange would be lead by a women -- Sarah Al Suhaimi -- for the first time.
Hurt by low oil prices, Saudi Arabia last year set out an ambitious diversification plan for the economy in 2030. Part of that reform is to increase women's participation in the workforce to 30% from 22%.
 Saudi Arabia's giant oil IPO on track for 2018
Al Suhaimi, now chairman of the stock exchange, is also the CEO of investment bank, NCB Capital. She has held that position for almost three years, managing assets of over $20 billion.
The Saudi stock exchange, or Tadawul, is the biggest in the Middle East. Its companies have a combined market capitalization of about $320 billion.
Nashar has 20 years experience at Samba and worked her way up through the bank's career development program, according to a statement from Samba.
Some Saudi women have taken leading roles in family businesses but they have not been as prominent in the corporate world.
Obstacles remain
While the Saudi executives promoted in the past few days will occupy influential positions, there are still serious obstacles to women working in the kingdom. They're not allowed to drive and need permission from a male guardian to travel abroad.
Saudi Prince Alwaleed bin Talal, who does not hold a government role but is a prominent global investor, wrote a blog post in December calling for the end to the driving ban.
Relaxing the driving ban was not mentioned in the 2030 vision, but the kingdom's new leaders are keen to modernize the economy. That will require cultural reform.
And there are signs of change underway. Just this weekend, the city of Jeddah hosted a three-day Comic Con festival for the first time.
It attracted many young men and women under one tent -- a significant shift in a country where gender segregation is imposed in many public spaces.
Calls are now mounting for Prime Minister Theresa May to deliver answers.
In the House of Lords -- the unelected upper house of parliament -- lawmakers are trying to attach an amendment to Brexit legislation that would require the government to guarantee the rights of EU citizens living in the country.
Meanwhile, thousands of people on Monday took part in a campaign called "One Day Without Us," which is aimed at highlighting the contribution migrants make to the U.K. Supporters posted images on social media, staged streets protests and donned pins to show their support.
When I was 6, a migrant doctor performed an operation that saved my legs. A migrant physiotherapist taught me to walk again. #1DayWithoutUs
"When I was six, a migrant doctor performed an operation that saved my legs," said a Twitter user named Leyla Williams. "A migrant physiotherapist taught me to walk again."
The poet Ian Duhig also issued a tribute: "The teacher who got me interested in English poetry wasn't English, was a migrant. I'll raise a glass today to Elio Cruz."

The numbers involved are huge: The House of Commons estimates that 3 million people from other EU states live in the U.K. Some work on farms and as construction workers, while others are employed as university researchers, doctors and nurses.
Some businesses that depend on EU migrants warn that the labor pool is already drying up due to the uncertain future. Farmers and food suppliers are among the most affected, so far.
The teacher who got me interested in English poetry wasn't English, was a migrant. I'll raise a glass today to Elio Cruz. #1DayWithoutUs
Meanwhile, an estimated 1.2 million British citizens live as expats in the EU. Some are retirees who have sought out the warmer weather and cheaper cost of living in countries including Spain and Portugal.
May has made it clear that reducing net immigration to Britain is one of her top priorities. But she has also expressed a willingness to make a deal with Europe on migrants who are already in the country. That's unlikely to happen before formal Brexit talks between the U.K. and EU begin.
#1Daywithoutus #Leicester #1dayLeicester @GLAS_tweets @uniofleicester Genetics at Leicester - with and without UK-borns. Please retweet! pic.twitter.com/3GIeRRNATa
Negotiations, when they do start in the coming weeks, will need to untangle decades of integration and answer many questions: Which migrants will have the right to remain? How will future work permits be issued? Will cross border pensions claims be honored? Who will pay for health insurance and welfare benefits?
Emma Brooksbank, an immigration lawyer at Simpson Millar, said that work permits are likely be a sticking point in Brexit negotiations.
"Immigration is a political hot potato, and to satisfy the electorate, the government will probably have to impose some restrictions on EU migrants," she said.
"The biggest problem is that nobody seems to know what will the immigration law look like once we leave," Brooksbank added.
 Businesses rally in support of #ADayWithoutImmigrants
Second only to construction when it comes to its reliance on undocumented workers, the restaurant industry employed some 1.1 million undocumented workers in 2014, according to a Pew Research study.
To help protect these workers, Restaurant Opportunities Centers United (also known as ROC United), a national advocacy group for restaurant workers, has teamed up with restaurant owners across the U.S. to form the sanctuary restaurant movement.
So far, 285 restaurants across the U.S. have signed on, pledging to create safe and equitable work environments, where no one is discriminated against and everyone is paid a fair wage, offered benefits and given opportunities for professional growth. ROC United has also set up a quick response legal hotline for workers who feel they are being exploited, discriminated against or threatened at work.
"We're trying to create a support system for our industry -- at least a portion of the industry -- that wants to take care of its workforce," said Saru Jayaraman, one of the co-founders of ROC United.
 How immigrants helped save the economy of Akron, Ohio
The Sanctuary Restaurants website notes that the label is not a legal designation and can't protect workers or restaurants against any actions taken by immigration and customs agents.
Restaurant owner Paul Saginaw helped start the movement. He is the co-owner of Zingerman's, a group of food businesses that include a delicatessen, a dairy, a bakery and an employee training center, that together employ more than 600 people in and around Ann Arbor, Michigan.
"We want a place that is free of intimidation, free of hate," Saginaw said. "There's a place here at the table for everyone. Including people that may not like us, but our workers are scared."

"I started working in restaurants when I was 14 and the kitchen was where they accepted anyone," said Daniel Patterson, a self-taught chef who has also made the sanctuary restaurant pledge. Patterson is well known for his Michelin-starred restaurant Coi in San Francisco and has recently opened another restaurant called LocoL.
Patterson has spent much of his career teaching people from different backgrounds the business.
"I have a pretty good track record of training people who went on to own their own restaurants and that aspect of this conversation is important. Are you providing people with not just the skills but with the inspiration and opportunity for them to do what they want?" Patterson said.
James Mallios, a New York restaurant owner who is also part of the movement, said about 60% to 80% of the applications he receives are from immigrants.
When a job applicant comes in, employers like Mallios ask them to fill out an I-9 work authorization form, which requires them to provide proof of identification, such as a driver's license with a Social Security number, birth certificate or passport. Employers are not required to take any additional steps to verify work authorization, but they must keep the I-9 on file for as long as the person works there.
The restaurant owners CNNMoney spoke with for this story all said their employees have shown the appropriate work authorization paperwork.
 Trump's formidable foe on immigration -- Corporate America
However, as Bradshaw, the immigration attorney, notes "folks often show bogus documents."
Under President Trump's executive order, anyone who has been convicted of using fake documents, which can be considered a felony, will be placed on a priority-deportation list.
The National Restaurant Association, the industry's largest trade organization, did not directly say whether it supported the sanctuary restaurant movement. But senior vice president, Steve Danon, said the organization supported the Legal Workforce Act, which supports the improved use of E-Verify, an online system that helps business owners confirm an employee's status.
E-Verify cross-references a new hire's I-9 information with information at the Social Security Administration, Department of Homeland Security and Immigration and Customs Enforcement agencies. The system is currently optional for most business owners.
"What we really need as an industry is a path to citizenship for our workers," said ROC United's Jayaraman. "We need to be able to make sure we can continue to provide decent and livable wages and work conditions, otherwise we're never going to be able to survive as an industry."
CNNMoney's Vanessa Yurkevich contributed to this report.
Buffett teamed up with private equity firm 3G Capital to buy Heinz in 2013 and followed that up in 2015 with the purchase of Kraft. And Buffett has made it clear that he wants to do even more deals.
"Berkshire is now a sprawling conglomerate, constantly trying to sprawl further," Buffett wrote in his 2015 annual shareholder letter.
So what could Kraft Heinz go after next?
It may be tough for Kraft Heinz to find another company like Unilever (UL) that has a roster of both food and personal care products in its portfolio.
Unilever (UN), in addition to well-known brands like Ben & Jerry's, Lipton and Hellmann's, also owns the Dove line of deodorant and skincare products, Vaseline and Q-Tips.
 Kraft Heinz pulls plug on Unilever bid
Kraft Heinz had no comment about what it planned to do now that its talks with Unilever have ended.
But three other personal care companies rallied on Friday due to speculation that they could be takeover targets. Clorox (CLX) rose nearly 3%, while shares of Kleenex maker Kimberly-Clark (KMB) and Colgate-Palmolive (CL) both rose 4%.
Kraft Heinz may turn its attention to buying one of them now that the Unilever deal is off. They would all be cheaper acquisitions as well.
Clorox has a market value of about $17 billion. Kimberly-Clark's is $47 billion. And Colgate-Palmolive is worth $64 billion.
Kraft Heinz could also go after another food maker. In fact, several of them could be vulnerable to a takeover.
Campbell Soup (CPB) and Smucker (SJM) both dropped on Friday after reporting disappointing sales.
Merger talk has pushed up stocks -- and lifted CNNMoney's Fear & Greed Index to Extreme Greed levels
Cereal giant General Mills (GIS) was lower as well Friday after it warned about its outlook. Shares of General Mills rival Kellogg (K), which has also been cited as a potential takeover target, fell too.
Oreo and Cadbury owner Mondelez (MDLZ) also fell, mainly because many investors thought that it was the most likely Kraft Heinz takeover target.
Mondelez and Kraft used to be part of the same company. It's possible that the reunification rumors will return now that Kraft Heinz has walked away from Unilever.
And Hershey (HSY), which recently rebuffed a takeover offer from Mondelez, could still be an acquisition candidate as well. They also would be relatively bite-sized deals compared to Unilever too.
Mondelez is worth about $66 billion, but the other five food companies I just mentioned have market values ranging from about $16 billion to $35 billion.
 Oreos for Buffett? Mondelez pops on Kraft Heinz rumor
Low prices for many agricultural commodities are squeezing profit margins for big food companies -- and that's a key reason why many on Wall Street think that the industry is ripe (so to speak) for a massive wave of mergers.
These companies may become Unilever targets for that matter. That's because Unilever might have to do a deal of its own to bulk up or it could face pressure from investors who are angry that it turned down Kraft Heinz. In other words, eat or get eaten.
Shares of Unilever, which has dual headquarters in London and Rotterdam, fell 7% in trading in the U.K. and the Netherlands Monday. (U.S. markets were closed for Presidents' Day.)
It's also still possible -- but not very likely -- that Kraft Heinz could eventually revisit talks for Unilever.
But Kraft Heinz would have to wait until the late summer to do so. That's because of something in the U.K. known as the "Put up or shut up" rule.
If a potential acquirer for a British company decides against making a formal bid once the target company has been publicly identified, no new offer is allowed for a period of six months.
The commitment is not just new jobs: Amazon will also open a new head office this year in the hip east London neighborhood of Shoreditch.
Amazon is the latest in a series of tech firms to announce big investment and hiring plans in the U.K. following the Brexit referendum in June.
Expedia (EXPE), for example, announced plans on Monday to expand its London office and hire more workers.
Google (GOOG) is building a new 650,000 sq. ft office in London. And Facebook (FB, Tech30) has announced plans to open a new office and hire 500 additional workers in London.
The expansion plans suggest that tech firms are not overly worried about Brexit, despite concerns that the separation will damage Britain's growth prospects and make it more difficult to hire talented foreign workers.
 Amazon's delivery drones may drop packages via parachute
Amazon's largest markets outside the U.S. are Germany, Japan and the U.K. Last year, the company booked about $9.5 billion in sales in Britain.
The company boosted the number of full-time and part-time workers it employs globally by nearly 50% in 2016 to 341,000. That figure does not include the tens of thousands of contractors and temporary workers it hires during busy times.
Kraft Heinz (KHC) announced its bid on Friday, offering $50 a share.
But Unilever turned down the deal, which it said "fundamentally undervalues" the company.
Unilever shares, which had jumped on expectations of a deal, fell 7% in early trade in London on Monday.
 Unilever says no to takeover bid by Kraft Heinz
Kraft's interest was made public at "an extremely early stage," according to Kraft Heinz spokesman Michael Mullen.
"Our intention was to proceed on a friendly basis, but it was made clear Unilever did not wish to pursue a transaction," Mullen said in a statement. "It is best to step away early so both companies can focus on their own independent plans to generate value."
A merger between Kraft Heinz and Unilever would have been one of the largest ever.
It would have been the biggest in the history of the food and beverage industry, trumping the merger between beer behemoths Anheuser-Busch InBev (BUD) and SABMiller in 2016. That deal was worth nearly $125 billion.
Instead, Unilever may continue to focus on its own growth. Last year, the company scooped up Dollar Shave Club for $1 billion. It also bought eco-friendly home products maker Seventh Generation.
Kraft Heinz is known for its brand-name macaroni and cheese and ketchup, as well as Oscar Meyer foods, Planters peanuts and Jell-O.
The company was formed when Kraft and Heinz merged in 2015. Two years earlier, Heinz was bought by Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway (BRKA) and private equity firm 3G Capital.
Investors have speculated that Kraft Heinz and Berkshire are itching to do another major deal.
Berkshire Hathaway did not immediately return a request for comment.
Unilever brands include Dove personal care products, Ben & Jerry's ice cream and Lipton tea.
-- Paul LaMonica contributed reporting.
A negative omen: Berkshire Hathaway sold off the majority of its Walmart stock last week. Despite that blow, analysts still say to hold on to your Walmart stock for now.
2. Tesla earnings: Elon Musk's electric car company will report its fourth quarter earnings on Wednesday
Tesla's (TSLA) stock has risen more than 25% so far in 2017 and up more than 50% in the past three months. Investors are eager to hear more about the new Model 3 -- a more affordable, mass market electric car that Tesla plans to launch widely later this year.
Some analysts expect Tesla to report a loss after the company missed its 2016 vehicle sales goal. It set a goal to deliver at least 80,000 vehicles but failed. Investors are also nervous that Tesla's plan to buy SolarCity, a solar energy service, would diverge from its primary role as an automaker.
However, if oil prices start to rise again, there may be a stronger demand for electric cars - making Tesla's new model 3 a frontrunner for cost-conscious consumers.
3. Nordstrom earnings: On Thursday, the luxury department store will roll out its end-of-year financial results.
Donald Trump slammed Nordstrom (JWN) on Twitter after it dropped Ivanka Trump's clothing line. The company said this decision was due to the brand's declining sales. After Trump's tweet, the retail chain's stock price climbed more than 7%. It was a welcome boost for Nordstrom, which like many department stores, has been struggling to compete with online retailers.
4. Will the Trump rally continue?: The stock market has been performing well ever since Trump took office. The Dow and S&P 500 are at record highs. Investors will be curious to see if the stocks can keep it up next week.
Investors are hoping that Trump can lower corporate taxes. That might encourage American companies to invest more, open more plants and buy more companies. Janet Yellen has also expressed confidence in the U.S. economy by raising rates in December and hinting that more rate hikes will come this year.
3. Coming this week:
Tuesday - Walmart (WMT), Macy's (M), Home Depot (HD) earnings
Wednesday - Tesla (TSLA), Fitbit (FIT) earnings; CPAC begins
Thursday - Gap (GPS), Kohls (KSS), Nordstrom (JWN) earnings
Friday - J C Penney (JCP), Foot locker (FL) earnings
The sequence of events makes some ethics experts uncomfortable: Chinese authorities reversed their position as Trump's political star rose.
"China is going to want concessions from Mr. Trump, and this is now the first in what will be a series of efforts to influence him," said Norman Eisen, a White House ethics counsel under President Obama. Eisen is part of a group that has sued Trump for violating the foreign emoluments clause of the Constitution by accepting foreign payments through his business ventures.
But Trump Organization attorneys told CNN that it was simply trying to protect the Trump trademark from someone who had been improperly squatting on it, and that any accusation that President Trump could be compromised by the trademark decision granted by the Chinese government is completely baseless and shows a disregard for the facts.
It is difficult to assess the value of the new trademark. It covers construction-related services, not for Trump's core hospitality and real-estate businesses.
But even if construction-related services are not a core business for the Trump Organization, the company places a great value on anything with the Trump brand.
"The Trump brand is key to the value of the Trump Organization's assets," Sheri Dillon, a Trump lawyer, said last month.
Trump can also argue that he's a lot more famous in China now than he was when he first started the trademark battle there in 2006, giving him a stronger claim to the Trump name. Trump already holds dozens of trademarks in China and is seeking dozens more.
"The Trump Organization has been actively enforcing its trademark rights in China for more than a decade and its latest trademark registration is a natural result of those efforts -- all of which took place years before President Trump even announced his candidacy," said Alan Garten, the Trump Organization's chief legal officer.
The ethics concerns are fueled by Trump's decision not to completely sever ties with his company.
Before taking office, he bucked the advice of ethics lawyers who urged him to avoid conflicts by selling off his vast business interests and putting the money in a blind trust. Instead, he pledged to place his assets in a trust run by his adult sons.
Trump talked tough on China in his campaign rhetoric, but so far hasn't followed through on his threats to label it a currency manipulator on his first day in office, or to impose heavy trade tariffs.
 Ethics group lawsuit says Trump is violating Constitution
China legal experts say they think Trump's political ascendancy most likely played a role in the trademark decision.
"I've got clients who have fought these same cases time and time again without success. For this rapid turn of events, it does seem to be more than just a coincidence," said Dan Plane, a China intellectual property expert in Hong Kong. "What's striking about the Trump decision is the timing. I think it's reasonable to assume that politics played a part -- without Trump even necessarily asking for it."
The Chinese Embassy in Washington told CNN that the case was handled in compliance with China's trademark law.
"The Chinese trademark review board does not make its decisions publicly available, so we don't know on what basis they made their decision," said Matthew Dresden, an international trademark attorney. "I think these decisions were not made in a vacuum."
The White House declined to comment, referring the question to the Trump Organization.
 What we know, and don't, about Trump's trust
Another interpretation of the decision may simply be that China is becoming more responsive to Western companies that want to protect their trademark. In December, China's top court found in favor of U.S. basketball start Michael Jordan, ruling that a Chinese company sportswear company, Qiaodan, had to stop using the Chinese characters that rendered the name Jordan.
"You could say there's a nice ray of sunshine, that perhaps things are changing for foreign brands," said Plane. "But [the Trump decision] really was a bit of a bolt out of the blue, particularly in relation to the case's history and the decision's timing."
 Michael Jordan wins his Chinese name back
One remaining question is whether Trump will continue to find favor in future Chinese trademark decisions.
"If there's a consistent pattern where you have 'wins' in every case to which Trump's name is attached when normally, those cases would be non-starters for anyone else, then yes, I think there's a real concern about his being given something that others wouldn't receive," Plane said.
-- Dugald McConnell, Serena Dong and Cristina Alesci contributed to this story.
Trump, of course, is not shy about taking credit. And it's no surprise that companies are touting their job announcements. But how much credit he merits for many of the individual corporate moves is more complicated.
In many cases, the jobs he has promoted are part of previously announced plans. Here are the facts.
Ford (Part Two)
On March 28, Ford announced a $1.2 billion investment in three Michigan facilities.
What Trump said: The president sent a tweet touting a "big announcement" from Ford. "Car companies coming back to U.S.," he said.
The facts: Ford said it plans to invest $850 million in its Wayne, Michigan, assembly plant. The company will also pump $150 million into its engine plant in Romeo, Michigan, and $200 million into a Michigan data center.
Most of this investment was already agreed upon as part of a 2015 labor deal with the United Auto Workers union. At that time, Ford pledged to invest $700 million in Wayne and $150 million in Romeo, creating or retaining 130 jobs.
So most of the news wasn't new. But the investment did ensure that the 3,700 workers in Wayne won't have their jobs shipped to Mexico anytime soon.
Charter Communications
On March 24, Charter Communications announced plans to invest $25 billion in the United States and to hire 20,000 American workers in the next four years.
What Trump said: "Today, I am thrilled to announce that Charter Communications has just committed to investing $25 billion, with a 'B,'" Trump said in a joint announcement with the Charter chief executive in the Oval Office. He later tweeted his thanks.
The facts: Charter, a telecommunications company, said it would invest $25 billion in broadband infrastructure and technology in the next four years. The company also committed to hiring 20,000 American workers during that period, and said it would bring back all overseas call centers and build a new call center in Texas.
The 20,000 jobs, at least, have been in the works for more than a year.
CEO Tom Rutledge said in 2015 that Charter would need to bring on 20,000 additional workers if the company's merger with Time Warner Cable and acquisition of Bright House Networks went through. A Charter spokesman reiterated the claim in April 2016. (Time Warner Cable is not affiliated with Time Warner, the owner of CNN.)
The FCC approved the deal last May, and Rutledge said in January that the company had plans to hire 20,000 new employees within three years.
Charter said Friday's announcement marked a firm commitment to hire, despite its earlier announcements.
"We have spoken about our plans to hire 20k before but it wasn't a commitment," Charter spokesman Justin Venech told CNNMoney in an email. "Today we committed to a time frame of four years for those hires."
The $25 billion investment, Venech said, had not been previously announced.
General Motors (Part Two)
On March 15, GM announced that it's adding or bringing back 900 U.S. jobs in Michigan over the next 12 months.
What Trump said: "Just today -- breaking news -- General Motors announced that they're adding or keeping 900 jobs right here in Michigan," Trump said at a Detroit-area campaign speech after meeting with automakers. He added that the number of jobs in the region "would've been heading down big league if I didn't get elected."
The facts: Just under 700 GM workers laid off earlier this month will get their jobs back. GM plans to reinstate 500 jobs at its Lansing plant in 2018, and it's creating 180 plant jobs in nearby Flint for accommodate some who were fired. The company will also hire 220 new workers at its plant in Romulus.
GM did not directly attribute the announcement to Trump or his policies. The decision was predicated upon a "strong economy with a strong manufacturing sector," GM spokesman Tom Wickham said, as well as "anticipated strong demand" for crossover vehicles.
However, the announcement came hours before Trump flew to Michigan to talk about fuel economy rules with top automakers, including GM CEO Mary Barra.
"Today's event gave us a positive venue to share good news," Wickham said.
The carmaker already announced in January that it would invest $1 billion in U.S. factories and create or retain 7,000 domestic jobs.
ExxonMobil
On March 6, CEO Darren Woods said the company is investing $20 billion in Gulf Coast manufacturing operations over 10 years, creating 45,000 jobs.
What Trump said: Trump tweeted about the announcement five times, and the White House put out a laudatory press release. "This is a true American success story," the president said in a statement. Trump said in a video that Exxon's investment was happening "to a large extent because of our policies and the policies of this new administration."
The facts: The jobs are part of an Exxon project called Growing the Gulf, which was launched in 2013 and aims to tap into the nation's shale boom. The company plans 11 natural gas projects along the Texas and Louisiana coasts.
An ExxonMobil spokesman said he didn't know how many of the 45,000 jobs were created between 2013 and 2016.
The investment is in line with Exxon's broader plans for growth. Woods has made natural gas a priority since he took the helm in January, and the company recently spent $5.6 billion to snap up shale assets in Texas and New Mexico.
Exxon's press release announcing the jobs focused on the money to be made exporting chemicals linked to shale gas -- not on Trump.
"These projects are export machines, generating products that high-growth nations need to support larger populations with higher standards of living," Woods said. "Those overseas markets are the motivation behind our investments."
Still, Woods gave the White House a hat tip in a statement circulated by the president's team.
"Investments of this scale require a pro-growth approach and a stable regulatory environment and we appreciate the President's commitment to both," Woods said.
Intel
On Feb. 8, Intel (INTC, Tech30) CEO Brian Krzanich announced at the White House that the tech giant would invest $7 billion in a new Arizona factory, creating 10,000 related jobs.
What Trump said: Trump said at a press conference after the announcement that Intel "will move ahead with a new plant in Arizona that it was probably never going to move ahead with, and that will result in at least 10,000 American jobs."
Trump also promoted the Intel news at a joint press conference with the Canadian prime minister. Trump said Intel is "coming in with billions and billions of dollars of investment and thousands and thousands of jobs" because he's moved to lower taxes and decrease regulation.
The facts: The new computer chip factory will directly create about 3,000 "high-paying, high-wage, high-tech" jobs at its peak, according to Krzanich. In total, it will support more than 10,000 related jobs in the state.
The investment was made "in support of the tax and regulatory policies that we see the administration pushing forward," Krzanich said from the Oval Office.
But the project isn't entirely Trump's doing. In fact, Intel previously announced a $5 billion investment in the same Arizona chip factory with former President Barack Obama in 2011. That money was used to build the "shell" of the factory, but it was left unfinished because of a lack of "general demand for the product," according to company spokesman William Moss.
The project is resuming now that demand is picking up again.
"We're making this investment now to meet demand that we now expect," Moss told CNNMoney. "That said, we certainly join other companies in supporting the administration's pro-business and pro-investment goals."
General Motors (Part One)
On Jan. 17, General Motors (GM) announced plans to invest at least $1 billion in U.S. factories. The company also committed to creating or retaining about 7,000 U.S. jobs in the next few years.
What Trump said: Trump, then the president-elect, gave GM and Walmart a shout-out via Twitter the day of the announcement, thanking the companies "for starting the big jobs push back into the U.S.!"
The facts: GM plans to shift 450 jobs from supplier plants in Mexico back to the U.S., and has pledged to protect 1,500 factory jobs that were previously at risk of leaving the country. GM is also adding 5,000 jobs to its finance and technology operations. Details will be rolled out later this year.
The company didn't mention Trump in its announcement.
"As the U.S. manufacturing base increases its competitiveness, we are able to further increase our investment, resulting in more jobs for America and better results for our owners," GM CEO Mary Barra said in a statement.
These plans have been in the works for some time, according to a company executive, and aren't part of any arrangement with President Trump.
Still, GM has been eager to show the new administration that it's serious about domestic job creation. Trump has attacked the automaker for making cars in Mexico and threatened to hit its imports with a "big" border tax. Barra serves on Trump's economic advisory council.
Walmart
On Jan. 17, Walmart (WMT), which employs more workers than any other American business, said it would add 10,000 U.S. jobs this year.
What Trump said: Trump offered praise for Walmart in the tweet about GM.
The facts: Walmart will add 10,000 jobs by expanding, renovating or relocating 59 Walmart and Sam's Club stores. It's also expanding online services. In addition, the project will create 24,000 temporary construction jobs, the company said.
Walmart didn't mention Trump in its announcement.
"With a presence in thousands of communities and a vast supplier network, we know we play an important role in supporting and creating American jobs," Walmart executive Dan Bartlett said in a statement.
It's unclear whether Trump or his policies affected the decision, announced days before the inauguration. Walmart declined to comment. CEO Doug McMillon serves on Trump's economic advisory council.
Lockheed Martin
On Jan. 13, defense giant Lockheed Martin (LMT) said it would add 1,800 jobs to its F-35 fighter jet program in Texas.
What Trump said: Trump mentioned Lockheed Martin's job creation in a Jan. 18 tweet. He said the jobs "came back because of me!"
The facts: Lockheed Martin CEO Marillyn Hewson told reporters about the new jobs while leaving a meeting at with the president-elect at Trump Tower. She said Lockheed is "close to a deal" that will bring down the cost of the F-35 and bring "thousands and thousands of jobs" to the U.S.
Trump criticized the cost of Lockheed Martin's F-35 program in late December. He said "the tremendous cost and cost overruns" led him to ask Boeing to price a comparable jet. Lockheed stock dropped.
Lockheed has every reason to charm Trump: It is the largest U.S. government contractor, according to the most recent most recent data. But these new jobs would have been added with or without him.
The positions Hewson announced are linked to production increases that have been in motion for years, a Lockheed spokesman told CNNMoney. Lockheed plans to deliver 150 jets in 2019, compared with 36 aircraft in 2014.
Amazon
On Jan. 12, Amazon (AMZN, Tech30) announced plans to create more than 100,000 U.S. jobs in the next 18 months.
What Trump said: "The announcement was made after the president-elect met with heads of several other tech companies and urge them to keep their jobs and production inside the United States," Sean Spicer, the incoming press secretary, said on a call with reporters that day. "The president-elect was pleased to have played a role in that decision by Amazon."
The facts: Amazon didn't mention Trump in its press release.
"Innovation is one of our guiding principles at Amazon, and it's created hundreds of thousands of American jobs," Amazon founder and CEO Jeff Bezos said in a statement. "These jobs are not just in our Seattle headquarters or in Silicon Valley -- they're in our customer service network, fulfillment centers and other facilities in local communities throughout the country."
Amazon would probably add tens of thousands of jobs regardless of who is president. The e-commerce company is growing rapidly, and Amazon adds fulfillment centers each year to expand its shipping operations.
"The bottom line is they were going to create jobs anyway, but it's the messaging that has changed," James Cakmak, an analyst with Monness, Crespi, Hardt, told CNNMoney. This announcement "appears to calibrate to current political sensitivities."
During the campaign, Trump repeatedly took on Bezos. He said once that Amazon is "getting away with murder tax-wise."
Chinese tech giant Alibaba
On Jan. 9, Jack Ma, the founder of Alibaba (BABA, Tech30), met with Trump and promised to help create 1 million jobs in the U.S. through the company's e-commerce platforms.
What Trump said: Ma "had no intention of doing it until I got elected," Trump said in an interview with Fox News. He also said Alibaba and other companies will spend a "tremendous amount of money" in the United States.
The facts: Ma is on record as early as 2015 saying he wanted to create U.S. jobs by helping businesses sell American goods to China, and Asia generally, on Alibaba's e-commerce platform.
After the January meeting, a reporter asked whether Ma and Trump talked about any investments in the U.S. "No," Ma replied. "We specifically talked about ... supporting 1 million businesses, especially in the Midwest of America."
Alibaba's pledge to help create 1 million jobs in the U.S. is vague and misleading. Ma is not going to build factories. He is not planning to set up Alibaba operations centers that would employ tech-savvy Americans. And he is not touting a big investment.
In other words, Ma isn't promising what most experts would define as job creation. He's talking about stimulating trade by helping 1 million small businesses sell American goods in China and Asia. Why the Midwest? Chinese consumers want more foreign food supplements and baby goods -- think milk products from a farm in Wisconsin.
Fiat Chrysler
On Jan. 8, Fiat Chrysler Automobiles (FCAU) announced a $1 billion investment to expand factories in Ohio and Michigan, spurring the creation of 2,000 jobs by 2020.
What Trump said: "It's finally happening - Fiat Chrysler just announced plans to invest $1BILLION in Michigan and Ohio plants, adding 2000 jobs," Trump tweeted the next day.
The facts: The announcement is the latest phase in an "industrialization plan" the company announced a year ago. In a 2015 deal with the United Auto Workers union, the company committed to investing $5.3 billion in American plants to open up additional union jobs.
Fiat Chrysler CEO Sergio Marchionne said at a press conference that the decision was neither a response to Trump's pressure on the auto industry nor an effort to avoid Trump's ire.
"I wish I could give him credit for this," Marchionne told reporters. "But the thinking was in place beforehand."
Still, Trump's public criticism of GM and Ford factories in Mexico has surely made Fiat Chrysler and its investors wary. Marchionne called it "incredibly imprudent" for Chrysler to invest in Mexico until the industry gets some clarity on tariff threats.
Ford
On Jan. 3, Ford (F) announced that the company is canceling plans to build a plant in Mexico. Instead, the carmaker will invest $700 million in Michigan to create 700 U.S. jobs.
What Trump said: Trump hailed Ford's decision on Twitter the next day. "Thank you to Ford for scrapping a new plant in Mexico and creating 700 new jobs in the U.S.," he tweeted. "This is just the beginning - much more to follow."
After Fiat Chrysler's announcement the following week, the president-elect applauded Ford again. "Ford said last week that it will expand in Michigan and U.S. instead of building a BILLION dollar plant in Mexico," he tweeted. "Thank you Ford & Fiat C!"
The facts: The Ford Focus will now be built at an existing plant in Hermosillo, Mexico, and the $700 million investment in Ford's Flat Rock, Michigan, plant will allow the company to ramp up production of electric and self-driving cars.
Ford CEO Mark Fields said the investment is a "vote of confidence" in the pro-business environment Trump is working to foster. However, he stressed that Ford did not negotiate a deal with the president-elect.
"We didn't cut a deal with Trump," Fields told CNN's Poppy Harlow. "We did it for our business."
Falling small car sales probably played a major role.
At the same time, Trump's unrelenting criticism of Ford on the campaign trail could have been a factor.
Last year, Ford announced that it would invest $1.6 billion to transfer production of the Focus from Michigan to Mexico as a cost-saving move. Trump repeatedly blasted the automaker for sending U.S. jobs to Mexico (Ford said no jobs would be lost because of the move) and threatened to place a 35% tariff on Ford vehicles made in Mexico and sold in the U.S.
Japanese tech conglomerate SoftBank
On Dec. 6, after meeting with Trump, SoftBank founder Masayoshi Son pledged to invest $50 billion and create 50,000 jobs.
What Trump said: The president immediately claimed credit, tweeting, "Masa said he would never do this had we not won the election!"
The facts: Before the election, SoftBank  (SFTBF)and the government of Saudi Arabia said they were forming a $100 billion fund to invest in tech companies around the world. Son told The Wall Street Journal that the money he promised to Trump would come from the SoftBank Vision Fund. A SoftBank spokesman disputed that Son said the investment would come entirely from the Vision Fund, saying, "it is a commitment from SoftBank."
SoftBank announced it would pump $1 billion into Florida startup OneWeb on Dec. 19, a move it said would create 3,000 jobs over the next four years. The company described the investment as "the first step" in Son's promise to Trump.
But it is not clear how much of the huge investment would have ended up in the U.S. regardless of who won the White House. The OneWeb deal wasn't cobbled together after the election. Softbank had been in talks with the startup for "a long time," said SoftBank spokesman Matthew Nicholson.
Sprint, which is also owned by SoftBank, confirmed late last year that it would "create or bring back to America" 5,000 jobs, also part of Son's commitment to create 50,000 jobs.
Carrier
On Nov. 30, air conditioning, heating and refrigeration company Carrier said it cut a deal with the incoming Trump administration to keep jobs in Indiana from moving to Mexico.
What Trump said: Trump touted his team's involvement in the Carrier deal from the start. "I am working hard, even on Thanksgiving, trying to get Carrier A.C. Company to stay in the U.S. (Indiana)," he tweeted on Nov. 24. "MAKING PROGRESS."
Once the deal was inked, Trump visited the plant to claim a victory. "Carrier stepped it up, and now they're keeping -- actually, the number is over 1,100 people," he said. "Which is so great."
The facts: The company said the deal was possible because the incoming administration emphasized "its commitment to support the business community and create an improved, more competitive U.S. business climate." It also credits an incentive package offered by the state of Indiana.
Carrier says the agreement really saved 800 jobs -- not 1,100 -- from moving to Mexico. The company confirmed to CNNMoney that it never planned to move 300 administrative and engineering positions from Indianapolis.
Carrier will receive $7 million in financial incentives from the state of Indiana over the next 10 years -- a fraction of what Carrier expected to save if it moved the jobs to Mexico.
Carrier's parent company, United Technologies (UTX), is a major defense contractor.
Guajardo said that Mexico would be forced to respond.
"If you're talking about tariffs, specifically, obviously that is not the way to go because it will hurt both economies," he said. "If anything is done on one side, it has to be compensated with actions on the other side."
Guajardo is Mexico's top negotiator on NAFTA, the free trade agreement among Canada, Mexico and the United States, which Trump wants to renegotiate. Guajardo was one of the architects of the deal in the 1990s. He knows it inside out.
 Mexico is already pivoting away from the U.S.
Trump blames NAFTA for causing manufacturing jobs to pour out of the United States into Mexico. Nonpartisan congressional research concluded in 2015 that NAFTA did not trigger such an exodus of jobs.
Trump's threat to tear up the trade agreement has brought the three countries back to the table 23 years later to renegotiate. They all agree NAFTA can be improved, but few leaders have said what a better deal would look like.
In the CNN interview, Guajardo said NAFTA has been a great deal for all three countries.
He also emphasized that any new deal would have to include benefits for Mexico. He said anything less favorable would be impossible to sell to Mexico's fragmented Senate, which would have to approve it.
"I can't come back home with an agreement that will not be a win-win-win situation for the U.S., Canada and Mexico," Guajardo said.
 Mexico ready to retaliate against the U.S.
The three countries are expected to begin negotiations in May.
Guajardo tried to get a head start on talks. He flew to Washington in January to meet with White House trade officials. That same day, Trump tweeted that Mexico's president, Enrique Peña Nieto, shouldn't bother coming to Washington if he wasn't prepared to pay for the border wall. Peña Nieto canceled.
Guajardo didn't discuss specifics of how Mexico might retaliate, but other Mexican leaders have.
Senator Armando Rios Piter told CNN on Sunday that he would soon introduce a bill requiring Mexico to buy corn from Argentina and Brazil instead of the United States. In 2015, corn was one of the top U.S. exports to Mexico, totaling $2.4 billion.
NAFTA eliminated Mexican tariffs on American corn, and U.S. corn farmers warn that retaliation by Mexico would probably wipe out some of their jobs.
Guajardo was clear that Mexico would respond in some fashion if Trump hurts Mexico with trade barriers.
"We're trying to organize our discussions in a constructive manner, but if there is no room for improvement and we have to react to actions that damage the Mexican economy ... it will be necessary to respond in some of these manners," he told Quest.
 On Mexican auto jobs, Trump misses the point. Most workers make parts, not cars
Ford got a lot of attention last month when it dropped its plans to build a $1.6 billion assembly plant in San Luis Potosi, Mexico. But the small car production originally planned for the discontinued San Luis Potosi plant is shifting to an existing Ford Mexican assembly plant, not returning to the U.S.
Ford (F) never claimed to be bringing work back, but onlookers could be forgiven for getting confused. On that same day, Ford announced plans for a $700 million investment and 700 new jobs to build electric and self-driving cars at a Michigan plant.
Fields said the investment was a "vote of confidence" in the incoming Trump administration. But that production was never supposed to go to Mexico.
Trump, who frequently criticized Ford and its Mexican plants during the campaign, has had plenty of praise for Ford since his election, choosing to portray it as bringing work back from Mexico in response to Trump's election.
Thank you to Ford for scrapping a new plant in Mexico and creating 700 new jobs in the U.S. This is just the beginning - much more to follow
Ford CEO Mark Fields was invited to the White House twice in the first two days that Trump held office, when he met with a group of manufacturing CEOs and then a group of auto CEOs. And Trump singled him out for praise.
"Mark was so nice with the plant coming back, I wanted to sit next to him," Trump said at the start of the first day meeting.
The two expanded Mexican plants are still on track to open later this year, said Ford spokesperson Kelli Felker. Ford is spending $2.5 billion on constructions, and will hire 3,800 workers once the plants are fully up and running.
On top of that, small and medium-sized business owners are giddy. The NFIB Small Business Optimism Index is at its highest level since 2004.
Heck, even manufacturing has made a pretty big turnaround and looks almost healthy again. The Philly Fed Index, a survey on how well manufacturers are doing, just hit its highest level since 1984. And anyone with money in the market likely noticed the U.S. stock market set even more records this week. In fact, American stocks are on their best winning streak in 25 years.
There's still a belief on Wall Street -- and many parts of Main Street that CNNMoney has recently visited -- that Trump is going to get the economy surging again. Yes, there are some red flags -- household debt is back at 2008 levels and prices are rising. But overall, things look good.
"The economy is better than you think," says Chris Rupkey, chief financial economist at MUFG Union Bank in New York. "President Trump inherited the best economy since President Bush, so let's hope things continue to run smoothly."
 Trump rally is best for new POTUS since LBJ and JFK
The bullish scenario: Trump gets back on track
But the reason consumers and CEOs are so excited is because they expect Trump to get going on his "pro-growth agenda." Business leaders -- big and small -- want tax cuts, not lengthy press conferences hammering the press and his former rival Hillary Clinton.
As a Trump supporter in Kentucky told CNNMoney recently, "He already won the election. Just shut up about the votes."
Business CEOs have been clear: They want lower taxes, infrastructure spending and some regulations scaled back (or just not as strictly enforced).
Trump voters have also been clear: They want jobs, jobs, jobs that pay more than minimum wage.
The question is whether Trump can get back on track to focus on these issues with Congress. If he does that, a lot of the "chaos" of his first weeks in office will likely fade.
"The bullish scenario is that Trump comes to realize quickly that he must use most of his political capital to fast-track tax cuts, tax reform, repatriated earnings, and deregulation," wrote economist Ed Yardeni of Yardeni Research in a note this week.
Yardeni went on to say, "If that path lifts economic growth, as it should, the strength of the economy should boost Trump's political capital and strength -- both at home and abroad."
Even one of Trump's biggest critics -- billionaire mogul Mark Cuban -- tweeted some praise Friday of the president's economic plans: "Trump is trying to do some things right. Taxes, lobbyists, bureaucracy, FCC, SEC. If he can get the changes passed, they are positives."
 Trump isn't killing the bull market. Here's why
Trump's 'Game of Thrones' could hurt economy
But the biggest threat to this bullish scenario unfolding is probably Trump himself. He has turned Washington into a "Game of Thrones" right now, argues Yardeni.
One Republican lawmaker put it even more bluntly to CNN Thursday after listening to Trump's wild 75-minute press conference: "We're just trying to manage this s***."
The more time Trump spends fighting with the media or having to stabilize his cabinet, especially the role of National Security Adviser, the less time he is spending on the economy.
At some point, stocks will do a big U-turn if Wall Street doesn't think Trump and Congress will come through on his economic agenda. Optimism can also reverse quickly, stalling spending and growth.
If the president fails to deliver a better economy, it may be the biggest let down of all to many of his supporters.
The Dow, S&P 500 and Nasdaq all closed at record highs for five days in a row through Wednesday, something that hadn't happened since January 1992. President Trump even tweeted about the feat.
The problem is that Catalyst placed defensive bets that would protect investors from market turmoil, but expose them to losses if the market got any higher.
That's exactly what happened, causing the mutual fund to suffer a loss of 15% through Thursday's close, Catalyst confirmed to CNNMoney.
The situation was worsened by the fact that the options that Catalyst had bet on were set to expire on Friday, making them virtually worthless given the market rally.
"This type of market, rapidly rising prices with low and falling volatility, is the exact thing the fund is positioned against," Catalyst Capital Advisors CEO Jerry Szilagyi said in a statement.
 Trump rally is best for new POTUS since LBJ
The losses sparked rumors on Wall Street over the fund's financial health. But Szilagyi said investors didn't dramatically yank their money and insisted the fund "is not, and has not been, under any duress."
Szilagyi said the losses triggered a risk management process to "kick in," causing Catalyst to reverse its bearish position into a bet that the market would rise.
Michael Block, chief strategist at Rhino Trading, said the fact that Catalyst and possibly other firms had to turn bullish may have actually helped contribute to the rally on Wall Street. He said the episode shows how strong market momentum can run over funds leaning in the wrong direction.
"It spirals and snowballs, forcing you to buy high and sell low," Block said.
 Goldman Sachs up 37% since Trump's victory
Catalyst emphasized that it has no further exposure to the bets that got the fund in trouble.
"We have navigated through this type of market in the past, and we believe we will do so again," Szilagyi said.
Of course, the big rally on Wall Street has now cooled off a bit. The Dow opened down nearly 100 points on Friday after six-consecutive record days.
Block noted that the markets dipped a bit on Thursday during Trump's press conference. He said Trump didn't inspire confidence during the event because he focused way more on attacking the media than touting pro-growth tax cuts and deregulation.
"We've seen the market rally quite a bit when he talks about tax cuts and Dodd-Frank going away," Block said. "But when he's hectoring a journalist, it just reminds me of Hugo Chavez. What's he doing?"
On Friday, Trump will be the first sitting president to visit Boeing (BA)'s fast-expanding campus in North Charleston, South Carolina, where he will attend the unveiling of Boeing's new 787-10 Dreamliner.
It will be the third meeting between Trump and Muilenburg since the president's election. They had previously met at Mar-a-Lago and Trump Tower before the inauguration. They have spoken on the phone about a half dozen times, according to people familiar with the calls.
"We've had the privilege of having a very open dialogue with him on business issues," Muilenburg said on the earnings call. He said Boeing is "very supportive" of Trump's plans on manufacturing, trade, regulation and taxes. The company is "very confident that those are headed in the right direction and being done with the right tone and tenor."
 Boeing workers in South Carolina overwhelmingly reject union
In the less than four weeks since taking office, Trump has moved closer to Boeing's interests on several key issues.
The president has declared his support for the U.S. Export-Import Bank and reaffirmed a "one China" policy. His press secretary has signaled the administration will likely support U.S. expansion plans by Norwegian Air Shuttle -- despite the objections of U.S. airlines and their unions. Norwegian Air is a big buyer of Boeing planes.
There are still major issues on Trump's agenda without resolution that affect Boeing, including tax reform and whether or not to review a treaty that allows airlines in Qatar and the United Arab Emirates unfettered access to the U.S.
Boeing CEOs often work closely with presidents. Muilenburg's predecessor chaired President Obama's Export Council -- but Muilenburg's access to Trump has been extraordinary for a corporate leader.
During his January 17 visit to Trump Tower, Muilenburg was allowed to listen in to part of a call between Trump and Lt. General Christopher Bogdan. Bogdan is responsible for the Pentagon's F-35 Joint Strike Fighter program. The F-35 is made by Lockheed Martin (LMT) and is a competitor of Boeing's F/A-18 Super Hornet.
 Boeing pitches China facility as Trump-friendly
At the time of the call, Trump was threatening to buy Boeing Super Hornets as leverage against Lockheed in pricing negotiations for 90 F-35s. Bloomberg News first reported details of the call.
Bogdan, testifying to Congress on Thursday, downplayed the significance of the call. "There were no decisions made during those conversations, and it was my belief that President-elect Trump at the time was attempting to gain more information about the F-35's capabilities, relative to the Super Hornet," Bogdan said.
Boeing's contacts aren't limited to the Oval Office. Boeing staffers have had numerous meetings with Defense Department and White House contacts at all levels in recent weeks, according to one of the familiar people.
From their first meeting on December 21 in Mar-a-Lago, Muilenburg has been effusive in his praise of Trump's agenda. Muilenburg told reporters: "It was a terrific conversation. Got a lot of respect for him. He's a good man. And he's doing the right thing."
The White House did not respond to a request for comment.
 Trump & Boeing - It's about China
Boeing, like many companies, woke up on November 9 to an unexpected political landscape. The company had been preparing for a Clinton presidency. Timothy Keating, its long-time senior VP of government operations, served under President Bill Clinton. There was even internal discussion at Boeing that Keating might join a new Clinton administration, according to several Boeing staffers.
Early on, some of Trump's policy pronouncements unnerved Boeing. Trump took a congratulatory phone call from Taiwan's president and risked disrupting business relations with China -- Boeing's biggest single jetliner customer.
Boeing was then blindsided on December 6 when Trump tweeted, "Boeing is building a brand new 747 Air Force One for future presidents, but costs are out of control, more than $4 billion. Cancel order!"
Boeing is building a brand new 747 Air Force One for future presidents, but costs are out of control, more than $4 billion. Cancel order!
Trump scolded Boeing on the new presidential transport. "I think it's ridiculous," Trump said. "I think Boeing is doing a little bit of a number. We want Boeing to make a lot of money, but not that much money."
Within hours, Muilenburg was on the phone with Trump for the first time, congratulating the president on his election win, committing to control the jet's cost and extending an invitation to Trump to visit its factories, according to one person familiar with the call.
The U.S. oil comeback has been led by a dramatic resurgence in the Permian Basin, a hotbed of shale drilling in Texas and New Mexico. Frackers are racing to add rigs in the Permian, where the count has skyrocketed from a low of 132 last April to 301 now.
"All evidence is indicating that an oil price over $50 is fanning the flames of higher production," Matt Smith, director of commodity research at ClipperData, wrote in a recent report.
That's why the U.S. Energy Information Administration significantly upgraded its 2018 forecast for domestic oil output to 9.5 million barrels per day, compared with 8.9 million barrels as of last November.
JPMorgan is even more bullish on American oil, predicting the U.S. will pump 9.7 million barrels a day by the end of next year.
That would be quite the feat, eclipsing the 44-year high set during the recent peak in April 2015. That kind of output would also be just shy of the all-time high, set in November 1970 just before the OPEC oil embargo.
 Oil prices have doubled in a year. Here's why
All that new American oil could keep a lid on prices, which have already doubled from the lows of last year. Strong U.S. production would also make life more difficult for OPEC, especially because the cartel's well-executed production cut agreement is set to expire later this year.
The key to the U.S. resiliency is that financial pressure has forced once-bloated drillers to become vastly more efficient.
"The crisis of collapsing oil prices has seemingly focused the industry on doing more with less," JPMorgan global commodity research analyst David Martin wrote in a report.
Thanks to more sophisticated technology and lower prices for personnel and drilling equipment, shale drillers are much leaner these days.
Societe Generale called it a "profound technological transformation" that signals shale is "coming back, and coming back strong."
In fact, SocGen said each drilling rig is now able to pump more oil "than ever before." Capital Economics estimates that the U.S. can replicate the powerful output of 2015 with half the rigs.
 OPEC has pulled off one of its 'deepest' production cuts
Talk of an oil comeback is terrific news for laid-off oil workers in Texas, North Dakota and elsewhere. Goldman Sachs has estimated that nearly 170,000 oil and gas jobs were wiped out between late 2014 and mid-2016 as companies big and small scrambled to slash costs and stave off bankruptcy.
Thankfully, the pink slips have finally stopped flying in the oil patch. Government statistics show that the energy industry's labor force stopped shrinking during the second half of last year.
"Finally, we are seeing an uptick. The layoffs stopped about six months ago," Jeff Bush, president of oil and gas recruiting firm CSI Recruiting, told CNNMoney.
Bush cited a flurry of hiring, especially for six-figure jobs in geology, engineering, finance and accounting. The field work is also coming back, albeit more modestly.
He said the oil crash was "harsh" because of the dramatic decline in drilling activity.
"We're recovering, but it has not recovered yet," Bush said.
It stands to reason that hiring may not be quite as robust this time because shale companies can do more with less.
That may be true, but in order to ramp production back up the industry will need to hire a lot. Oil companies need to replace the workers who were laid off during the downturn, some of whom have found work in other industries like construction. Goldman Sachs has predicted the oil and gas industry may need to add 80,000 to 100,000 jobs by the end of 2018.
And that doesn't factor in promises by President Trump to rip up regulations that he says are holding the American oil industry back.
"When things come back online, there's going to be an enormous talent shortage of epic proportions," Bush said. "It's going to be nuts."
As it is, the two tax reform proposals put out so far already would push debt much higher.
The House Republican blueprint would cost $3 trillion in the first decade, the TPC estimates -- and that's after accounting for the revenue raised by the BAT.
Trump has promised to put out another tax reform proposal in the next few weeks, so it's not clear if he'll include a BAT. But his previous proposal didn't and was estimated by TPC to cost up to $7 trillion.
So if a BAT doesn't fly politically, Republicans will have a hard time pushing through their big tax cuts for businesses without a way to pay for them.
"It'll be very hard to find that $1.2 trillion elsewhere. It would have to come from a bunch of things," said Kyle Pomerleau, director of federal projects at the Tax Foundation.
Just take the House plan. Here's what could change:
Less dramatic rate cuts: The BAT would go a long way in offsetting the estimated $1.8 trillion revenue loss from the House plan that comes from cutting the corporate rate to 20% from 35% and repealing the corporate Alternative Minimum Tax.
So conceivably Republicans might decide to cut rates less dramatically.
To compensate for the loss of BAT revenue solely by adjusting the rate, they might only be able to cut the corporate rate to 28%, Pomerleau said.
But if they made other modifications as well, "a corporate tax rate of 25% might be possible," said Alec Phillips, a political economist at Goldman Sachs, in a research note.
Less generous tax breaks: While the House plan repeals several business tax breaks, it also introduces some new allowances.
For instance, the plan calls for U.S. multinationals to pay a tax on their accumulated overseas profits, but at a much lower rate than the 20% corporate rate. To bring in more money, lawmakers may make the so-called repatriation rate somewhat higher.
House Republicans also want to switch to a territorial system, whereby U.S. companies would not have to pay U.S. tax on their overseas profits going forward. But a territorial system without a BAT would increase the incentive for companies to move operations and keep profits offshore. "So they may want to impose some type of minimum tax," said TPC codirector Eric Toder.
Ignore the problem and let the red ink flow: Republicans have made quite a fuss for years over having to offset any new spending to keep deficits in check. But they tend to view tax cuts as a magic elixir for the economy and therefore more likely to pay for themselves, despite much evidence to the contrary.
So they just may decide not to offset the cost of the entire tax reform package.
If that's what they choose, however, they'll probably have to sunset some or all of their tax cuts in 10 years. That's because they'd like to pass their tax bill under a process known as reconciliation, which lets them push something through with a simple majority vote in the Senate. But the quid pro quo is this: The package can't increase deficits after 10 years.
Kraft Heinz suggested the company could make another offer.
"While Unilever has declined the proposal, we look forward to working to reach agreement on the terms of a transaction," spokesman Michael Mullen said in a statement to CNNMoney.
The two classes of Unilever (UL) stock surged more than 10% in early trading. Unilever is a British-Dutch conglomerate with headquarters in London and Rotterdam.
Shares of Kraft Heinz (KHC) were up 8% Friday. The stock fell more than 4% Thursday after the company reported disappointing sales.
A takeover of Unilever (UN) would be one of the largest in corporate history. It would be the biggest in the food and beverage business, beating the nearly $125 billion merger between beer giants Anheuser-Busch InBev (BUD) and SABMiller last year.
If the two companies were to merge, the deal would combine the company famous for Kraft macaroni and cheese and Heinz ketchup with the firm that owns the Dove brand of personal care products, Ben & Jerry's ice cream and Lipton tea.
Unilever has been busy making deals of its own. The company bought Dollar Shave Club for $1 billion last year, then bought eco-friendly diaper and laundry detergent maker Seventh Generation.
There has also been speculation that Unilever was interested in acquiring Honest Co., the personal care products startup backed by actress Jessica Alba.
But if Kraft Heinz does persuade Unilever to do a deal, it would be just the latest big move to bulk up in the world of food and consumer products.
Kraft and Heinz merged in 2015. Two years earlier, Heinz was bought by Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway (BRKB) and private equity firm 3G Capital. Buffett did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
Many investors have been speculating that Buffett and Kraft Heinz were itching to do another big deal.
There were rumors late last year that Kraft Heinz might buy Oreo and Cadbury owner Mondelez (MDLZ) -- which used to be part of Kraft and was split into a separate company a few years ago.
But shares of Mondelez fell more than 5% at one point Friday as investors realized that it was probably no longer a target of Kraft Heinz. The stock later recovered a bit.
Two other food companies that have been mentioned as potential Kraft Heinz targets also fell in early trading.
Campbell Soup  (CPB)and Smucker (SJM) were lower after reporting disappointing sales. But it's clear that neither is likely to be bought by Kraft Heinz, either.
Kate Davies, a senior statistician at the ONS, said that higher fuel and food prices are to blame for the slowdown. Sales were down in both conventional stores and online.
Investors reacted by pushing the pound lower 0.6% against the dollar to $1.24. That's 17% below the levels seen on the day Britain voted to leave the European Union.
The sharp drop in the value of the pound following the referendum is translating to higher prices for imported goods, such as food and electronics.
"We have seen that wages are not improving while inflation is moving higher," said Naeem Aslam, chief market analyst at Think Markets. "Higher prices are biting."
Inflation jumped to 1.8% in January, compared to 1.6% the previous month. Capital Economics predicts it will breach the central bank's 2% target next month.
Europe to Trump: Learn more about the EU
The U.K. economy showed remarkable resilience in the aftermath of the referendum. Consumer spending had been particularly strong, defying the expectations of most economists.
Now, it looks like consumers are starting to buckle under the pressure of higher prices.
"These figures provide the clearest evidence yet that rising prices will squeeze consumer spending throughout this year and into 2018," said Andrew Sentance, senior economic adviser at PwC.
 Republicans have long talked about replacing Obamacare, but no bill yet
Republicans don't have the 60 votes in the Senate needed to enact broader changes to the law, including revising Obamacare's strict insurance rules which are critical to the GOP's promise to make health insurance more affordable. So they plan to repeal the mandates, penalties and taxes using the budget reconciliation process, which is limited to revenue and spending measures and requires only a simple majority to approve.
Still missing from the GOP plan, however, is how much money they are willing to spend on their replacement provisions and how they will pay for it, especially since their proposal calls for rescinding Obamacare's taxes on the wealthy, insurers and others. That's also key to knowing how much assistance to consumers and states it will provide.
Lawmakers said the Congressional Budget Office is still analyzing the plan.
Here's what the House wants to tackle first:
Provide tax credits to more people: The GOP wants to provide advanceable, refundable tax credits to help people afford coverage. These would replace Obamacare's subsidies, which are actually advance premium tax credits, though most people don't know that. Obamacare's credits are paid directly to insurers, and it's likely the Republican ones would be too.
But the two tax credits would differ in significant ways. Obamacare subsidies are based on income. The less you make, the more you get. But if you make above 400% of the poverty level -- $47,520 for an individual or $97,200 for a family of four -- you don't receive any assistance. This has led many middle class Americans to say Obamacare's premiums are unaffordable, especially after insurers hiked rates for 2017.
 The many reasons Republicans are stuck on Obamacare repeal
The Republican plan, however, would tie tax credits to a person's age so everyone would qualify, as long as they aren't eligible for coverage through an employer or the government. It would also be adjusted based on family size.
The GOP argues that this would be easier to administer and would also eliminate incentives for people to work less so they could remain eligible for subsidies.
The outline distributed to House members on Thursday and obtained by CNN, however, doesn't specify the size of the credits. Without that figure, it's hard to know how much it will help lower people's premiums. Previous Republican plans have offered credits of up to $3,000, but experts say this would not be enough to make coverage affordable for many people.
Boost the use of health savings accounts: Republicans would allow people to contribute more money to these accounts, which let Americans sock away funds tax free as long as they are used for health care expenses. They have long been popular with the GOP.
Currently, those enrolled in high-deductible health plans can contribute up to $3,400 for single folks and $6,750 for a family. In his A Better Way blueprint for health reform, House Speaker Paul Ryan would increase those thresholds to $6,550 for individuals and $13,100 for family coverage.
 HSAs: Big tax break or gimmick to benefit the wealthy?
It's not clear whether these are the final figures. Some lawmakers had also talked about decoupling HSAs from high-deductible plans to allow more Americans to contribute. But raising the threshold and expanding access would mean giving up more tax revenue, which the Republicans may not be able to afford.
Repeal Medicaid expansion and cap federal funding: The GOP would eliminate Medicaid expansion, which allowed 11 million low-income adults to gain coverage in 31 states and the District of Columbia.
Under Obamacare, the federal government paid 100% of the cost for the newly eligible for three years and is slated to ratchet   back that funding to 90% by 2020. The Republicans would allow states to continue receiving the enhanced payments for a limited period of time. After that, states could opt to continue covering low-income adults, but they would receive the traditional federal match, which ranges from roughly 50% to 74%, depending on the state.
 Major changes for Medicaid coming under Trump and the GOP
Republicans are also seeking to put the program "on a budget," according to the policy brief circulated Thursday. States could choose between a per capita allotment, which would provide a set sum of federal money per participant, or a block grant, which would send a fixed amount to each state to cover its Medicaid population. States would be given more flexibility to decide how to use the funds.
Again, it's not yet known how big a cut this would be or what impact it would have on the more than 70 million Americans now on Medicaid.
The GOP would also repeal the Obamacare cuts to federal funding for hospitals who treat large numbers of Medicaid or uninsured patients. This would help level the playing field among states since those that didn't expand Medicaid were getting less help from Washington D.C. to care for these folks.
--CNN's Lauren Fox and Deirdre Walsh contributed to this report.
Samsung and Lee have denied the allegations.
Shares in Samsung Electronics (SSNLF) -- the crown jewel of the Samsung empire -- dipped by as much as 2% Friday but closed the day with just a 0.4% loss. Shares hit an all-time high just a few weeks ago.
2. Trump visits Boeing: President Trump is heading to South Carolina on Friday to visit one of Boeing's (BA) factories.
This comes just months after he publicly attacked Boeing for the cost of its planned Air Force One.
Trump's praise -- or attacks -- on listed companies have caused sharp moves in their share prices.
Before the Bell newsletter: Key market news. In your inbox. Subscribe now!
3. Stock markets sinking: U.S. stocks have spent the past week setting new record after new record.
The stock market is having its best performance in the first month of a rookie president's term since the 1960s.
The push higher has been attributed to President Trump's plans to boost business, cut taxes and deregulate various sectors of the economy.
But investors are now pausing to catch their breath. U.S. stock futures are declining a bit ahead of the opening bell.
European markets are sinking in early trading. The majority of Asian markets are closing the week with small losses.
4. Another flurry of earnings: A busy week of earnings wraps up with quarterly numbers on Friday morning from Campbell Soup (CPB), Deere (DE) and Moody's (MCO).
5. Wells Fargo tries to repair damage: Wells Fargo (WFC) will give investors a peek into its efforts to rebound from its fake account scandal when it releases monthly customer account numbers and holds a conference call on Friday.
The bank has reported a dramatic decline in consumer checking account openings in recent months. It's now looking to shut more than 400 branches.
Download CNN MoneyStream for up-to-the-minute market data and news
6. Coming this week:
Friday - Campbell Soup (CPB) and Deere (DE) earnings
Back in 2012 the industry was charged with attaining what's called Corporate Average Fuel Economy of 54.5 miles per gallon by the year 2025. (In reality, cars won't be averaging anything close to that -- it'll be more like 42 mpg.)
 Stocks hit record again. But is Trump the reason?
This unified fuel economy and emissions standard was assembled by three agencies -- the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, which oversees fuel economy, and the EPA, which regulates vehicle emissions, and the California Air Resources Board, which regulates emissions for California and a number of other states.
These agencies have to work closely together because some emissions -- particularly CO2 -- vary directly depending on how much fuel is burned. That means that the EPA and CARB have to coordinate with NTHSA, which regulates fuel economy, so that their CO2 limits work with NHTSA's fuel economy goals. Otherwise, automakers could be stuck trying to meet incompatible goals.
The Obama plan included a midterm review to assuage industry fears of being locked into potentially unobtainable fuel economy and emissions targets. Starting in 2017, the three agencies were supposed to check in with the industry, look at all the data, and see whether the 2025 goals were still viable.
The EPA, just as the final weeks of the Obama administration were winding down, announced that it had reviewed all the data and that it believed the automakers could meet the goals. The agency made its announcement well before the April 2018 deadline that had been set for that decision.

Many in the industry saw that as a move by the outgoing administration to lock in fuel economy and emissions rules before the Trump team came into office.
"Several times automakers have publicly raised concerns about EPA changing course and rushing through its midterm review following the November election," Gloria Bergquist of the Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers, an industry lobbying group, said in an email.
 8 reasons Andrew Puzder's nomination flamed out
The automakers should be able to get the new review they want, said Kristina Moore, an industry attorney who has worked on fuel economy issues as a congressional staffer. She said there are a number of mechanisms by which the Trump administration, possibly with the help of Congress, could negate the Obama EPA's decision and start over.
But that shouldn't be necessary, insisted Dave Cook, a vehicles analyst with the Union of Concerned Scientists, an environmental group that has long been pushing for strict fuel economy standards. Automakers can meet the original standards as affirmed by the Obama administration's EPA, he said. In fact, they could do more, he said, without hurting workers or consumers.
Analysts and investors didn't have the chance to get any more color from Millner though. Cabela's is in the process of being acquired by privately held retailer Bass Pro Shops, and the company has suspended its earnings calls until the deal closes.
Shares of Cabela's (CAB) fell 5% on the weak report.
Gun sales have typically spiked following high-profile mass shootings, particularly after killings that occurred during President Obama's tenure.
Part of that was due to people looking to own weapons for their own protection, but a bigger reason was that firearms enthusiasts feared tougher crackdowns on gun ownership in Washington as well as at state levels.
 Here's why President Trump is bad for the gun industry
"I think the entire gun industry was planning on, and I think the entire country was thinking, that Hillary was going to win," Brian Skinner, the CEO of Kalashnikov USA, said in a recent interview with CNNMoney.
"And I know there was huge demand, all the manufacturers had huge orders, and then the day after the election, distributors were canceling orders left and right just because they realized Trump's coming in now."
That's bad news for several publicly traded gun companies. Shares of gun and ammo maker Vista Outdoor (VSTO) have plunged 43% this year. The company reported a terrible quarter earlier this month.
 Vista Outdoor plunges after reporting gun sale slump
Shares of American Outdoor Brands (AOBC), the company formerly known as Smith & Wesson, are down nearly 10% too. Sturm Ruger (RGR) has fallen 6% so far in 2017 while sporting goods retailer Dick's (DKS), which also sells firearms, is down 8%.
These three companies are all due to report their latest quarterly results within the next few weeks.
CNNMoney's Aaron Smith contributed to this story.
"We're all looking at how the product can be more efficient, possibly speeding up the games," Moonves said. "So we're looking at some reformat ideas. Obviously, we're not planning on cutting advertising."
The NFL and its partner TV networks generate a great deal of revenue from ad sales during the regular season and the Super Bowl. This season, Super Bowl LI ads cost about $5 million.
On the call, Moonves said he still thinks the NFL is "the premier property in all of media."
 NFL's Roger Goodell: Would shorter games boost lousy ratings?
Changing the length or format of ads is one of the things NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell proposed in early November -- when viewership was down 12% from the previous year -- as a way to boost ratings. He also said maybe instant replays could be faster.
Competition with the presidential campaign between Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton was part of the reason ratings were down this season, but poor match ups and the number of weekly games also had an effect.
Ratings rebounded a bit in the postseason as competition got better, and Super Bowl LI ended up being the fifth most-watched TV broadcast in history. That was largely due to the Patriots' miraculous winning comeback.
But what would it mean for Russia?
William Jackson, senior emerging markets economist at Capital Economics, said that removing the sanctions would provide a meaningful boost to Russia's struggling economy.
"They are still very damaging to the business environment," he said of the sanctions. "There's no question about the pressure on the economy."
Here's what rolling back the sanctions would do for Russia:
Sanctions bite
Europe and the U.S. tried to hit Russia's economy by restricting its access to Western finance, oil exploration technology and services, and arms.
The sanctions -- combined with a sharp decline in oil prices -- have contributed to a major erosion of Russia's economic might.
The economy shrank by 3.7% in 2015 and 0.7% in 2016. Inflation skyrocketed and the value of the ruble collapsed.
Moscow scrambled to adjust, and a recovery is now beginning to take hold. The International Monetary Fund said in November that after absorbing some of the shocks from low oil prices and sanctions, Russia's economy is likely to return to growth this year.
Access to cash
The removal of U.S. sanctions would help Russian companies access desperately needed cash.
The sanctions are designed to cut off Russian firms from Western funds -- restrictions that have led to a downturn in investment and new projects.
"If Russian firms were able to access western financing, it would help the business environment," Jackson said. "There are still capital outflows and firms are struggling to raise capital."
Russian banks also stand to benefit from an easing of sanctions. At least five major Russian banks -- including Sberbank and VTB -- have been blocked from raising cash in the West.
Oil and gas
The sanctions forced Russian firms to put several major oil and gas projects on hold.
Energy producers Rosneft, Novatek and Gazprom all had to scramble for cash in order to pay their foreign currency debts and finance long-term projects.
They were also prevented from buying the latest oilfield tech from Western suppliers. A lifting of sanctions could help boost exploration and efficiency.
Everyday people
The economic benefit of removing sanctions would also trickle down to average citizens.
"Firms would be able to increase investment and hiring, which would result in higher employment and disposable incomes," Jackson said.
In response to Western sanctions, Russia banned most fresh food imports from the West. That led to price hikes and food shortages that hit everyday Russians.
Removing those counter-sanctions would also make life easier for Russians.
If investors were to return to Russia, the ruble would likely strengthen against other currencies. That would help consumers by making imported goods cheaper.
Europe's response
Even if Trump decides to lift sanctions, the EU is unlikely to quickly follow suit.
The bloc's current sanctions are in place until at least July. There is some opposition to their automatic renewal, most notably from Hungary, but the majority of European countries want sanctions to remain in place until Moscow fully implements a ceasefire agreement signed in Minsk in 2015.
Jackson said that even if the U.S. decides to lift sanctions unilaterally, it would be enough to significantly boost Russia's economy.
"My sense is that the U.S. sanctions might be more important, because of the importance of the dollar as the global reserve currency," he said.
But Donald Trump is, to quote the late Lloyd Bentsen, no Jack Kennedy. Turns out he's no LBJ either.
The market enjoyed a slightly bigger rally -- 4.3% -- in early 1961 after JFK became president.
And the market actually had its biggest rally ever for a new president after Lyndon Johnson took the oath in 1963 following JFK's assassination.
The S&P 500 gained 6% from late November of 1963 to just before Christmas of that year. (The market was flat in 1965 after LBJ was elected to a full term though.)
 Stocks post best winning streak in 25 years
But even though Trump, a fan of superlatives, can't take credit for the best post-inauguration rally ever, it's clear that Wall Street continues to be optimistic about how the economy and market will fare under his watch.
Wall Street is ignoring the infighting in the White House and concerns about Trump's proposed immigration policies and is focusing on the potential for tax reform and a massive infrastructure stimulus plan from Trump and Republicans in Congress.

And CNNMoney's Fear & Greed Index, which looks at seven measures of market sentiment, has moved into Extreme Greed territory this week. That's another sign of just how bullish investors are.
Trump noted the market's resilience Thursday morning. He took a break from attacking the media and leakers in his administration to tweet that stocks are on their best winning streak in decades.
Stock market hits new high with longest winning streak in decades. Great level of confidence and optimism - even before tax plan rollout!
To give credit where credit is due, the market is red hot right now. And Trump deserves some, albeit not all, of the credit for that.
Hopes for lower taxes are high. It's even a reason why big tech stocks, many of whom have feuded with the president about immigration, are soaring.
Investors are hopeful that companies like Apple, Microsoft, Google owner Alphabet and Cisco will be able to take the gobs of cash they have sitting in overseas bank accounts and bring it back to the U.S. at a one-time lower tax rate.
These companies could then presumably use the money to hire more workers, open more plants, acquire companies, boost share buybacks and increase their dividends.
But you could argue that the market's rally also is due to Fed chair Janet Yellen expressing confidence in the U.S. economy -- and credit for the economic rebound during the past few years probably should go to President Obama, not Trump.
The Fed raised rates in December and has given hints that it will hike rates a few more times this year.
While the market usually does not like higher rates, Yellen has signaled she is not likely to raise them too dramatically. Plus, rates are still going to be relatively low. They probably will end the year around 1.25% to 1.5% based on current Fed projections.
 Stocks hit record again. But is Trump really the reason? Or Janet Yellen?
So instead of rate hikes being feared as something that could kill the economy and rally, Wall Street seems to recognize that rates are merely returning to more normal levels now that the 2008 crisis is finally in the rear view mirror.
But this is not to take away anything from President Trump. It's clear that investors are more confident. But Trump may want to hold off on taking a victory lap just yet.
For one, consumer and corporate bullishness often peaks just before a downturn. That was the case in 1999 and 2007. I'm not saying that must happen again. But we shouldn't ignore those events either.
Also, did I mention that we're just talking about the market's performance for one month? Presidents aren't judged by historians or investors on their first few weeks.
 Red-hot Nasdaq continues its winning streak. So much for Trump being bad for tech?
To that end, the stock market plunged nearly 6% shortly after Trump hero Ronald Reagan was elected. But after a rocky start, stocks went on a tear that lasted from 1982 until the dot-com crash in 2000.
Stocks also plummeted more than 9% in 2009. Obama took office at the height of the financial crisis, but the market bottomed out that March. The Trump bump could be viewed as an extension of the Obama rally, not the start of a new Wall Street resurgence.
Finally, it's worth noting that the S&P 500 rose more than 3% in early 1989, the first few weeks of George H.W. Bush's presidency.
In fact, Trump and Bush 41 are the only Republicans to enjoy a first month rally since 1928. The market fell during the first month of the Truman, Eisenhower, Nixon and George W. Bush administrations.
But the rally for Bush, Sr. didn't last long. The economy cooled soon after he took office -- and Bush lost to Bill Clinton in 1992. Trump clearly doesn't want that history to repeat itself.
He calls himself a "lifelong Democrat." That is, until 2016, when he voted for Donald Trump, largely because of Trump's vow to redo NAFTA.
Michigan has lost nearly 300,000 manufacturing jobs since 2000. Moceri kept his job, but he says he has a lot of friends who didn't.
Many economists say there's no way those jobs will come back. The problem, they argue, is that machines took over. One study by Ball State University says 87% of American manufacturing jobs have been lost to robots. Only 13% have disappeared because of trade.
But workers in Michigan think the experts have it wrong. They don't blame robots at all. In fact, they love the machines.
"Automation is great. I want it to excel. I want more computers. I want more robots," says Moceri.
Frank Pitcher, a fellow Ford worker and UAW union member, agrees. He strongly believes robots have saved workers' backs and caused Ford employees to become a lot more skilled.
Robots have "replaced a lot of jobs that actually injured people," says Pitcher, who is about to turn 50 and glad his body isn't busted up. "I don't fear the technology or the automation. I welcome it."
CNNMoney spent a week in the Detroit metro region talking to current and former manufacturing workers. Almost all said the same thing: It's not the robots that took U.S. jobs, it's NAFTA.

 Trump gives America's 'poorest white town' hope
'I've had to let most of my workers go'
A giant American flag hangs on the wall of Matt Seely's small manufacturing shop in Detroit. In the late 1990s and early 2000s, his company, Quality Bending and Threading, was buzzing. He employed 17 workers. The phone rang all the time with orders from the big auto companies and defense contractors for specialty steel parts.
Today he employs just five people. He blames NAFTA for the decline.
"There was a point in time before NAFTA came in where there was a machine shop like this literally on every corner in the metro Detroit area," Seely says. Now he thinks people don't want to pay for American-made when they can get it cheaper from Mexico.
NAFTA was the trade deal President Bill Clinton signed with Mexico and Canada that went into effect in January 1994. It allows many goods to be imported into the U.S. from those countries without being taxed.
"We're not trading equally, and that's the real issue," says Seely. He believes it's not fair the U.S. ran a $63 billion trade deficit with Mexico last year, meaning the U.S. bought more from Mexico than it sold to Mexico.
Seely says he was never much of a political guy, until Trump camp along. He and his wife volunteered for Trump and ended up running a campaign office. Trump's son Eric toured Seely's factory.
Trump has clearly tapped into this anti-NAFTA fervor. He campaigned hard in Michigan, holding four rallies there in the final week before the election. He vowed that "Detroit -- the Motor City -- will come roaring back." He ended up winning Michigan by 10,704 votes.

 Mexico ready to retaliate by hurting American corn farmers
Trump calls NAFTA a 'catastrophe'
Since taking office, Trump has called NAFTA a "catastrophe" and promised to start renegotiating it this spring. It's exactly what Ken Sultes, another Ford worker and union member, wants to hear.
It's been "a downward spiral as far as jobs leaving this country," laments Sultes, who loves cars and wore a BMW ball cap to his interview. He also thinks the experts have it wrong about what's been hurting his industry.
"It's not like a robot comes to a line and 500 people lose their job," he explains. Sultes says only a few jobs are replaced by machines at a time. Typically, the displaced workers stay in the factory and move to another job.
In contrast, manufacturing workers are well aware of when there's a big factory closing. When that happens, hundreds of jobs go to another state -- or overseas.
While Trump and many workers blame NAFTA for the Rust Belt's woes, the data shows a far more murky story. Michigan actually gained manufacturing jobs after NAFTA was signed in 1994. The real downturn didn't begin until 2000, around the time China joined the World Trade Organization in 2001.
The Great Recession caused more losses, although Michigan has actually rebounded from the worst of the crisis. Over 150,000 manufacturing jobs have come back since the low of 2009. It's helped that U.S. car sales have been at record levels lately.
 I raised 3 kids on minimum wage. Here's what Trump should know

Michigan: Some jobs are back, but at what pay?
While there's a lot of worry in Michigan, the state's unemployment rate just hit 5%, the lowest level since 2001. That implies there are jobs in Michigan again.
But workers likes Sultes and Pitcher argue the jobs around now aren't middle-class jobs, especially for workers just getting started. Even at the auto plants, the big companies like Ford have created a "two-tier system" where they pay some employees about $30 an hour and others a far lower wage of about $20.
Many workers blame NAFTA -- especially cheap Mexican labor -- for pulling down U.S. wages.
"We never had a two-tiered employment where I worked before the NAFTA program," says Moceri, shaking his head. The company basically said, "If you don't accept this lower wage, this job will be gone."
-- CNNMoney's Logan Whiteside and Richa Naik contributed to this story.
Demand for the company's expensive luxury parkas has boomed over the past year, with sales up 33% and profits up 84%.
Customers flock to the Made-in-Canada coats for their warmth, and the firm boasts that its products have been worn in the South Pole and Mount Everest. The parkas are easy to recognize with their signature "Arctic program" patch.
The company is hoping that investors will warm to its expansion plans.
Canada Goose has grown its footprint in the U.S. and now makes more than one-third of its sales on American soil. It sells in 35 other countries and has gained a strong following in the U.K., France, Japan and Korea. It's planning further expansion in markets including Germany, Italy and Scandinavia.

Its customers appear to be very loyal. The firm said that a survey conducted in 2016 showed that 84% of customers expect to buy another Canada Goose product when they make their next major outerwear purchase.
It's also looking to expand its offerings by creating more items for the spring and autumn, and possibly even get into footwear and bedding.
 Here's why Amazon might buy a big retailer
But an investment in Canada Goose is not without risks.

The company is operating in a crowded, fragmented market, which could make it difficult to stand out from the crowd.
Moncler (MONRF), a larger competitor, has sales that are three times those of Canada Goose. The Italian firm already has significant sales in China, a critical market for luxury retailers.
Shares in Moncler have been highly volatile since their debut in late 2013 and dipped below their original offer price in 2014 before roaring back.
Canada Goose warned in its IPO filing that its reputation and sales could be hurt by protestors or animal welfare activists, who oppose the use of goose and duck feathers and coyote fur.
The company also warned that it's had problems with its accounting in the past.
It said it has taken steps to remedy the issue, but added that troubles could persist if "we fail to remediate these weaknesses."
Before the Bell newsletter: Key market news. In your inbox. Subscribe now!
2. Merger moves: Shares in Anthem (ANTM) are set to drop at the open because of turmoil over its planned merger with Cigna (CI).
The companies had been pursuing a $54 billion merger, but Cigna tried to terminate the deal earlier this week after it was opposed by the Justice Department and blocked by a federal judge
Anthem (ANTX) doesn't want to accept the breakup, and has sued to stop Cigna pulling out. A Delaware court has issued a temporary restraining order that prevents Cigna from withdrawing -- for now.
Meanwhile, Time Warner (TWX) shareholders are still feeling the love after voting Wednesday in support of a proposed $85 billion acquisition by AT&T (T, Tech30).
Time Warner is the parent company of CNN.
3. #ADayWithoutImmigrants: Restaurants and other businesses across the U.S. will be closing their doors Thursday in support of a "Day Without Immigrants," a national grassroots movement seeking to protest President Trump's immigration reforms.
The protests could hit the restaurant industry especially hard. Foreign-born workers provide the vast majority of labor in the sector.
4. Earnings: Shares in Air France-KLM (AFLYY) are surging by 8% in Europe as investors cheer the company's annual 2016 results.
Charter Communications (CHTR), Build-A-Bear Workshop (BBW), Hyatt Hotels (H), Cabela's (CAB) and Wendy's (WEN) are some of the top firms reporting earnings before the U.S. open.
Shares in TripAdvisor (TRIP) are expected to sink when trading begins. The firm reported quarterly results on Wednesday that came in well below analyst expectations.
Download CNN MoneyStream for up-to-the-minute market data and news
5. Coming this week:
Thursday - Wendy's (WEN) earnings Friday - Campbell Soup (CPB) and Deere (DE) earnings; Wells Fargo (WFC) CEO expected to answer Senate's letter about its latest controversies
Across the U.S., many major industries would be feeling that pain as well. That's especially true for the restaurant industry, which relies heavily on foreign-born workers.
In 2015, 1.8 million restaurant workers in the U.S. were immigrants, versus 6.3 million who were native born, according to the most recent report from the Bureau of Labor Statistics. And analysis by Pew Research found that about 1.1 million of the industry's workers were undocumented in 2014. That makes the industry second only to construction when it comes to relying on undocumented workers.
"Immigrants are the lifeblood of the restaurant industry," said Saru Jayaraman, co-founder of Restaurant Opportunities Centers United (ROC), national advocacy group for restaurant workers based in New York.
ROC recently helped launch the so-called sanctuary restaurants movement in which hundreds of chefs have pledged to create safe work environments for vulnerable workers, including the undocumented, LGBT, Muslim and disabled. ROC is also providing legal aid to workers who feel threatened or mistreated at work.
Celebrity chef Mario Batali, tweeted that his Italian food purveyor Eataly and other restaurants would remain open, but he would support any workers chose not to work Thursday.
We apologize for any delay tomorrow. We are an immigrant company & support any employees participating in the strike #DayWithoutImmigrants pic.twitter.com/9lcVX21Qsr
Busboys and Poets, a popular Washington, D.C.- area restaurant, bookstore and performance venue, is one of the dozens of restaurants that are closing for the day.
The restaurant, which has been in business for 12 years, was founded by Anas "Andy" Shallal, an Iraqi immigrant who came to the U.S. at the age of 10. His restaurant has six locations and employs 650 workers, he said.
"The issue of immigration is something that is being used as fodder by politicians to instill fear in the undocumented community," Shallal said. "Right now, sitting on the sidelines is not enough."
The scene at 14th & V for #ADayWithoutImmigrants pic.twitter.com/Bdd5IYckBv

New Jersey restaurateur and Mexican immigrant Uzziel Arias said he will be closing all four of his Los Charrito's locations.
Los Charritos employs close to 60 people, all of whom are immigrants or descendants of immigrants, said Arias. He plans to pay everyone their normal day's wages on Thursday. He estimates a loss of around $20,000 in revenue.
"Because of the economy right now, the last thing we should be doing is closing the business," Arias said, "But doing what you believe in is more important than all the money in the world."
 How immigrants helped save the economy of Akron, Ohio
Celebrity Chef José Andrés, an immigrant from Spain, announced he will also be closing his five locations. Andrés is currently involved in a legal battle with Trump over a restaurant lease at the Trump International Hotel.
"We realize it is not my restaurant, it is their restaurant, too," said Andrés. He estimates his restaurant group will lose close to $100,000 from Thursday's closing, but said this was an opportunity to feel "proud" and "empowered."
"A bunch of people who did not have a voice have found their voice from the bottom up," said Andres.
In support of our people & #ADayWithoutImmigrants Thurs 2/16 we will not open @jaleo DC CC MD, @zaytinya or @oyameldc #ImmigrantsFeedAmerica
Businesses from other industries are also coming out in support of the movement.
Accounting & Consulting Services, a Bethesda, Maryland, firm that has been in business since 1998 and employs 15 people, will be closing its offices in support of A Day Without Immigrants.
"Although it is tax season and it is the busiest time of the year for us, I consider it a small cost for a big cause," Jose Burgos, the agency's owner said. "Sometimes, just because we sit comfortably knowing we are already permanent residents or U.S. citizens, we feel we made it to the other side and forget where we came from."
In Des Moines, Iowa, 120 Latino-owned businesses are expected to close on Thursday, according to local Hispanic newspaper owner, Manuel Galvez. The list, he said, was expected to grow to 200.
Trump's formidable foe on immigration: Corporate America
"It's snowballing into something huge and is sending a message about the importance of immigrants to the economy," said Brent Wilkes, the national executive director for the League of United Latin American Citizens, the oldest Hispanic advocacy group in America. "We believe that this type of activism is essential and we're happy to see it all across the country."
Correction: An earlier version of this story incorrectly reported the number of foreign born and native born workers in the food services industry.
"It's downright remarkable, especially because following the news out of Washington is downright depressing," said Ed Yardeni, president of investment advisory Yardeni Research.
The Dow has skyrocketed an incredible 2,279 points since the presidential election. Wall Street has celebrated President Trump's stimulus plans as well as strength in the American economy.
But the latest gains have come in the face of drama in the White House that threatens to derail or at least delay Trump's promises for huge tax cuts and deregulation.
Last week, Trump's immigration executive order was dealt a legal blow, and the president has been dogged this week by the controversy over the resignation of national security adviser Michael Flynn.
And then just as U.S. markets were closing at record highs on Wednesday, restaurant CEO Andrew Puzder withdrew as Trump's labor secretary nominee amid resistance from the U.S. Senate.
"So far, you have to conclude the market doesn't care," said Yardeni. "But at some point the market might care."
 Nasdaq notches longest record streak since '99
Wall Street is apparently betting that tax cuts and deregulation are still coming, because despite Trump's troubles, Republicans still control the White House and Congress.
Federal Reserve chief Janet Yellen agrees that Wall Street is reacting to these stimulus plans, especially on the tax side.
U.S. stocks received another boost on Wednesday after Trump said at a meeting with retail CEOs his administration is "doing a massive tax plan. It's going very well."
Asked on Wednesday why stocks have gone up, Yellen said investors are "likely anticipating shifts in fiscal policy that will stimulate growth and perhaps raise earnings."
Wall Street is also hoping that a corporate tax overhaul will encourage companies like Apple (AAPL, Tech30) and Microsoft (MSFT, Tech30) to bring that money sitting overseas back to America for dividends, mergers and real investment.
It's no wonder that the Nasdaq has closed at record highs for seven days in a row, something that hasn't happened since the dotcom bubble in 1999.
 Trump isn't killing the bull market. Here's why
But how long can this rally really last?
Ryan Detrick, senior market strategist at LPL Financial, warned that in the short term, "things could have gotten a little overdone" in the markets.
But he said the "broad-based strength" of the rally, which includes small and medium-sized stocks, "bodes well for future gains."
For now, investors don't seem bothered by Trump's less business-friendly campaign ideas. That includes a tough stance on trade that could spark a trade war, promises to break up the banks and threats to the independence of the Federal Reserve.
"Love him or hate him, the market is focusing on the bullish aspects of Trump's plan," Yardeni said, "and dismissing the potential bearish ones."
The company is continuing to do well in many international markets too.
During a conference call with analysts, CEO Indra Nooyi said that she didn't believe "political actions impacts consumption of our products and we're not seeing any deterioration in activity."
President Trump has had tough words for Mexico, China, Japan and other U.S. trading partners.
But CFO Hugh Johnston added during the call that he was recently in Mexico and the business there looks "terrific."
"We've seen no meaningful business impact from some of the things happening in the political arena at all," he said.
Johnston said in an interview with CNNMoney after the earnings call that he expected the strong sales to continue.
"We haven't seen any evidence of politics influencing customer decisions," Johnston said.
Even though Pepsi generates a majority of its sales and profits from the U.S., the company is hopeful that it can continue to grow internationally.
To that end, Pepsi bought Wimm-Bill-Dann, a Moscow-based maker of milk, juice and other beverages in 2011. And the company has continued to stress that markets outside of the U.S. are key to its overall success.
"We are a U.S. company. We're a Mexican company. We're a Chinese company. We're an Indian company. We're a Russian company," Johnston told CNNMoney.
 Trump supporters call for Pepsi boycott -- over comments that CEO never made
This international exposure does have risks though.
The U.S. dollar has strengthened since Trump's win. A strong dollar eats into the sales and profits of multinational firms like Pepsi as well as its archrival Coca-Cola (KO), which has an even bigger presence overseas.
The rise in the greenback is one reason why Pepsi issued a somewhat cautious outlook for the rest of the year.
Johnston added in the interview with CNNMoney that the strong dollar could be an issue for Pepsi, but he stressed that Pepsi is doing everything it can to focus on what it can control.
That includes buying raw materials from local producers in markets outside the U.S. when possible.
And Johnston said that's not likely to change -- regardless of any political pressure.
Still, Johnston was quick to play the jobs trump card (so to speak), telling me that Pepsi has created "a lot of good paying jobs" in the U.S. -- with more than 100,000 employees working in America in supply chain and customer service roles.
Pepsi, like many U.S. companies, may need to tread cautiously in the brave new Trump world.
The company may also have to occasionally fight back against the proliferation of fake news and "alternative facts" that have become a problem since the election.
Nooyi was the subject of a fake news story last year that claimed she said Pepsi doesn't want Trump supporters buying its products. That was a total lie.
 Pepsi gets aggressive on cutting sugar
What she did say was that some Pepsi employees (as well as her own daughters) were concerned about Trump and his immigration policies. Nooyi was born in India, but she is an American citizen.
"I think we should mourn for those of us who supported the other side, but we have to come together and life has to go on," she said at a New York Times conference a week after the election.
It appears that both Nooyi and the president recognize that working together might make more sense. Nooyi is now one of the CEOs on Trump's advisory council.
Johnston said he expects that his boss will stress to Trump that globalization is important -- and also remind the president that doing more business overseas is good for American workers too.
"Our focus is on raising awareness that we have created a lot of good jobs," Johnston told CNNMoney.
Aetna (AET), meanwhile, is still evaluating whether it will remain in the four states where it currently operates, but it will "lose a lot of money in those markets this year," said Bertolini. Anthem (ANTX) has also said it is reviewing its participation. Both insurers said they will announce their involvement in the spring.
Meanwhile, Molina Healthcare (MOH), one of the few insurers that has done well in Obamacare, said Wednesday that it may also downsize.
"We believe there are simply too many unknowns with the marketplace program to commit to our participation beyond 2017," CEO Joseph Molina said in an earnings call. "We will wait and see how the new administration and Congress will adjust the program, and we plan to evaluate our participation on a state-by-state basis."
 Humana pulls out of Obamacare for 2018
For Aetna, between 1% and 5% of its customers account for 50% of its costs, depending on the market, Bertolini said. And in many places there is little competition and risk-sharing, he said, citing Nebraska, where Aetna is the only player.
"There isn't enough money in the ACA today as it is structured -- even with its fees and taxes -- to support the population that needs to be served," he said.
Talk of Obamacare being in a death spiral ramped up last year when Aetna and several other carriers decided to scale back their exposure to the exchanges after sustaining multimillion dollar losses. That left consumers in 70% of the nation's counties with only one or two companies on the exchanges and became a major talking point for Republicans, who say the program is collapsing.
A death spiral occurs when consumers have fewer, more expensive choices, which prompts healthy people to exit, leaving an even sicker pool of policyholders in the exchanges. Eventually, all of the insurers withdraw.
 Aetna CEO: We will not expand Obamacare in 2018
Obamacare supporters have defended the law, saying it was going through an expected transition period that would only last a year. President Trump and Congressional Republicans have promised to repeal and replace the program, though they remain divided over how to do so.
Before the GOP can dismantle Obamacare, however, they have to stabilize it since it will take at least a year or two for their plan to take effect. Republicans have promised that Americans will not lose their coverage during the transition. The Trump administration Wednesday issued a proposed rule that would address some of insurers' concerns in hopes of keeping them in the market while Republicans determine what to do.
But the Nasdaq boom is especially impressive considering the post-election fears that Silicon Valley would struggle under Trump. Many investors initially fretted that Trump's tough stances on immigration and trade would disrupt the tech industry's success.
Instead, big gains in tech stocks like Apple (AAPL, Tech30) and Facebook (FB, Tech30) are helping lead Wall Street's record-setting trajectory. The Nasdaq is already up 7.6% this year, outpacing the index's entire 2016 gain of 7.5%.
This year's pop has allowed the Nasdaq to catch up to the Dow's post-election surge. Both are now up about 12% since November 8.

 Stock market rally: Credit Trump or Yellen?
Even though this latest run-up Nasdaq hasn't happened since the late 1990s, that doesn't necessarily mean this is another tech bubble. Today's Nasdaq looks much healthier than the version that imploded at the beginning of last decade.
Yes, some stocks like Amazon (AMZN, Tech30) and Netflix (NFLX, Tech30) sport enormous valuations that would make value investors like Warren Buffett blush. And some big-name IPOs like GoPro (GPRO, Tech30) and Fitbit (FIT) did got out of hand.
But unlike during the bubble, many big tech companies are literally making bigger profits than they know what to do with it all.
"Most of the stocks rallying today may have high valuations, but they are making money nonetheless," said JJ Kinahan, chief market strategist at TD Ameritrade.
And Wall Street clearly thinks that trend will continue, no matter who's in power in Washington.
In fact, tech stocks could be big winners under at least one of Trump's promises: tax reform. If Trump succeeds in overhauling tax policy -- no easy feat -- it could allow tech to bring back the vast amounts of cash they are hoarding overseas.
Apple (AAPL, Tech30) alone has an incredible $230 billion in cash held overseas. And Microsoft (MSFT, Tech30), Oracle (ORCL, Tech30), Cisco (CSCO, Tech30) and Google owner Alphabet (GOOGL, Tech30) --all Nasdaq stocks -- all have vast sums of money just sitting overseas.
Trump's call for a one-time tax cut that would allow companies to "repatriate" that cash could be used to pay fat dividends, buy back stock, make splashy acquisitions and build new factories.
 BlackRock boss warns of 'dark shadows'
Of course, tech stocks could come under renewed pressure as Trump puts more attention on immigration. One major concern has been Trump's call for visa reform, including the H-1B visa program that the tech industry relies heavily on. These visas allow tech companies to recruit talented foreign workers to come work in Silicon Valley.
Tech CEOs have already been butting heads with the White House over the controversial ban on travelers from seven majority-Muslim nations. Silicon Valley CEOs have not been shy about voicing disagreement with Trump on that and dozens of tech firms have even fought the executive order in court.
Expedia (EXPE) CEO Dara Khosrowshahi , an outspoken critic of Trump, even recently seemed to be poking at Trump when he ended a recent earnings call by saying, "Hopefully we will all be alive to see the end of next year."
So will the Nasdaq continue its record-setting ways or is it due for a pause?
Kinahan said you have to be "careful whenever a market has rallied to the level that this one has."
He said investors concerned about a pullback can pocket some of their winnings, but urged against trying to "call the top" by dumping stocks entirely.
Bespoke Investment Group recently warned clients that their "expectations should be tempered a bit" given the recent Nasdaq surge.
"Stocks don't go up in a straight line," Bespoke wrote.
And when they do, the end result (aka Pets.com) isn't pretty.
Two other prominent Under Armour endorsers, ballerina Misty Copeland and former wrestler turned Hollywood superstar Dwayne "The Rock" Johnson, have also taken issue with Plank's comments on Trump.
In Under Armour's full-page ad -- which appeared in the company's hometown of Baltimore -- Plank said that his "choice of words" in the CNBC interview "did not accurately reflect" his intent.
 Under Armour tries to recover from Trump compliment
Plank added that the company stands "firmly for equal rights" and that "immigration is a source of strength, diversity and innovation" for Under Armour and other global companies.
He also wrote that Under Armour opposes Trump's proposed travel ban on immigrants from seven predominantly Muslim nations.
But is the damage to Under Armour's brand already done?
Sam Poser, an analyst with Wall Street brokerage Susquehanna Financial Group, downgraded Under Armour's stock to a "negative" rating Wednesday. In other words, he thinks investors should sell the stock.
Poser cited the "reputational risk" and "sloppy management commentary in a polarized political environment."
He noted in his report that both Nike (NKE) and Adidas (ADDDF) aired commercials during Sunday night's Grammys telecast that highlighted diversity and equality. Those spots could resonate with younger consumers who do not support Trump.
 Ass or asset? Steph Curry goes after Trump
Poser also pointed out that many of the presenters on the show made political statements that were in opposition to some of Trump's policies. And performers Bruno Mars and Chance the Rapper both were wearing Nike shoes.
Poser said Plank will have to do more to reassure nervous spokespeople and customers. The big worry is that Under Armour may "alienate the key customer that the brand desperately needs to appeal to in order to build its lifestyle business."
Shares of Under Armour were flat Wednesday. But the stock is down more than 25% this year, largely due to terrible earnings and a poor outlook that it reported at the end of last month.
However, his administration can adjust regulations even before lawmakers act.
"This proposal will take steps to stabilize the marketplace, provide more flexibility to states and insurers, and give patients access to more coverage options," said Patrick Conway, acting administrator of the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, which oversees Obamacare.
 Trump's new health secretary already planning changes to Obamacare
Here's what the proposed rule would do:
Raise costs for consumers: Insurers would gain greater flexibility in how much their policies would pay in each tier of coverage. For instance, silver plans currently must cover 70% of out-of-pocket costs, on average. Giving insurers more latitude would allow them to offer a wider range of products with higher deductibles and co-pays. This would likely lower premiums -- a plus, especially for middle class Americans who don't qualify for Obamacare subsidies -- but it would mean enrollees have to pay more to get care, which is already one of the chief complaints about the law.
The changes would also eliminate the federal government's review of whether insurers have enough doctors and hospitals in their networks. The Obama administration added this oversight after enrollees complained there were too few providers who accepted their plans.
"It's certainly not going to help consumers," said Tim Jost, a health law professor at Washington and Lee University School of Law.
Tighter enrollment periods: The new rule would cut the open enrollment period for 2018 in half, so that Americans could only sign up between November 1 and December 15. This would bring it more in line with signing up for on-the-job coverage and would ensure most Obamacare enrollees would have coverage all year long because coverage would start January 1.
It would require those applying outside of open enrollment to provide documentation proving their eligibility before coverage kicks in. Insurers have long requested a tightening of the special enrollment periods, which allow people who've experienced major life changes -- such as job loss, divorce or the birth of a baby -- to sign up during the year. Carriers argue that people are gaming the system and enrolling only when they get sick, but consumer advocates say this proposed requirement will make it harder for those truly eligible to qualify.
And it would require consumers to pay any back premiums they owe before signing up again. Insurers had hoped to shorten the time in which they have to cover claims by those who've stopped paying premiums -- currently three months -- but that is in the law and, therefore, requires Congress to make the change.
More time to figure out 2018 plans: The proposed rule would give insurers additional time to have their 2018 plans reviewed and finalized by state and federal regulators. Insurers have to submit their 2018 policies and premiums to state regulators in the spring, and they are concerned because so much remains uncertain.
Health insurers, who were already pulling out of the exchanges, are growing more jittery about participating for 2018. Humana (HUM) announced Tuesday it was pulling out of the individual market completely.
"Today's proposed rule is an effort to stabilize the exchange markets until an ACA replacement plan is approved and implemented," said Caroline Pearson, senior vice president at Avalere Health, a consulting firm.
The nation's two major industry groups praised the proposal, citing their interest in offering more affordable plans.
"These proposals would help stabilize the current individual market and are a good start toward improving the functioning of the marketplace, so that any longer-term reforms can begin on a better footing." said Alissa Fox, a senior vice president at the Blue Cross Blue Shield Association.
 Insurers warn: We're outta here with no Obamacare replacement
The rule could take effect as soon as next month. The agency is requesting comments until March 7 and will likely act after that.
The rule does not contain one of the more controversial changes insurers want -- allowing them to charge older enrollees more. Under Obamacare, carriers can only charge older policyholders up to three times what they charge younger ones. Insurers are looking to widen that band to five-to-one. This provision is in the law and can only be changed by Congress.
Separately, the Internal Revenue Service quietly reversed a decision to start rejecting tax returns that fail to indicate whether filers had health insurance, received an exemption or paid the penalty. While this has always been key to enforcing the individual mandate, the IRS had been processing returns without this information.
The IRS attributed the reversal to Trump's executive order that directed agencies to reduce the potential financial burden on Americans. However, it noted in a statement that the individual mandate is still in effect.
"[The] legislative provisions of the ACA law are still in force until changed by the Congress, and taxpayers remain required to follow the law and pay what they may owe‎," the agency said.
 Humana pulls out of Obamacare for 2018
Overall, the changes could wind up driving more people -- particularly younger folks with fewer medical issues -- out of the exchanges, said Sabrina Corlette, a research professor at Georgetown's Center on Health Insurance Reforms.
Enrollment in Obamacare is already lagging. Only 9.2 million people signed up for 2017 coverage through the federal exchange, healthcare.gov, down from 9.6 million a year ago.
"There's nothing in this rule that encourages healthy people to sign up ... and it's the healthy people you need in order to stabilize the market," she said.
Manufacturers have been drawn to the South because the region is strongly anti-union. Less than 2% of South Carolina workers are union members, the lowest unionization rate in the nation. Boeing (BA) spent billions to open its North Charleston plant, arguing it needs to assure customers who buy the 787 Dreamliner, which is built there, that the plant wouldn't go on strike.
 Trump move on Iran could cost jobs at Boeing
A win would have given the Machinists, who represent most Boeing factory workers, even more leverage over Boeing in future labor talks. The loss could further encourage other manufacturers to open union-free plants in the South.
The vote was seen as an uphill battle for the union, which dropped plans for a vote last year. About 40% to 50% of organizing votes fail.
"Boeing management spent a lot of money to make sure power and profits remained concentrated at the very top," said Mike Evans, the union's chief organizer. The union will now have to wait at least a year to petition for another representation vote. "The IAM remains committed to getting Boeing South Carolina workers the respect, wages and consistency they deserve."
The plant will get additional attention this week as President Donald Trump plans to visit the plant Friday to mark the completion of the first 787-10, the newest version of the Dreamliner. "It is great to have this vote behind us as we come together to celebrate that event," said Robinson-Berry.
Wages were a key issue in the vote. The union says South Carolina workers earn about $10 an hour less than union members at Boeing's Washington state plants.
 Boeing pitches China facility as Trump-friendly
For its part, Boeing says pay scales are driven by wages in the local market, and that the South Carolina plant already pays better than a union-represented Boeing plant in Alabama. The company emphasized the cost of union dues, about $800 a year, as well as the risk that the workers could be caught up in a strike they opposed.
"There is still sufficient time and a viable path forward potentially to complete the transaction," it said in a statement early Wednesday, announcing that it was suing to stop Cigna pulling out.
A Delaware court issued the temporary restraining order later in the day, preventing Cigna from withdrawing anytime soon.
Cigna said the court order was procedural, but it added that it will continue to respect the terms of the merger deal until the court further reviews the case. The next hearing is scheduled for the week of April 10.
The merger is clearly not going well because the insurers are suing each other. Cigna sued Anthem on Tuesday, claiming Anthem breached the merger agreement, which included an obligation to pay a breakup fee of $1.85 billion. Cigna is also seeking $13 billion in damages.
Anthem says in its own suit that Cigna has waged a campaign to sabotage the merger.
 Two mergers die in one day: Aetna-Humana & Anthem-Cigna
It was a big day for breakups in health care on Tuesday. Aetna  (AET)and Humana (HUM) called off their $34 billion merger agreement, which was also opposed by the Justice Department and blocked by a federal court.
Last year, then-Attorney General Loretta Lynch sued all four companies to stop the two mergers because she said they ran the risk of "drastically constricting competition" in health care.
The combinations would have the left the industry dominated by three giant insurers, the third company being UnitedHealth (UNH).
Humana also said Tuesday it was pulling out of Obamacare for 2018.
--CNNMoney's Rob McLean, Tami Luhby and Jackie Wattles contributed to this report.

 Mexico doubles down on Trump 'contingency plan'
Roldan makes, folds and neatly organizes the T-shirts at the factory. She works 60 hours a week, earning 850 pesos ($42). She's proud her paycheck can help support her two daughters and sons, who range in age from two to 19.
She's worked at the same plant for 10 years and giggles when she talks about how she knows the place inside out.
She fears Trump could take this job that she prizes so much. She says going north for work isn't an option.
"The question is: What are we going to do?" Roldan asks. "I wouldn't go" to the United States for work.
It's manufacturing jobs like Roldan's that Trump has promised to bring back to America. In 2000, there were 385,000 Americans working in textile mills. Today there are only 112,000, according to Labor Department data. More broadly, the U.S. has lost 5 million manufacturing job over that time.
 Mexican farmer's daughter: NAFTA destroyed us
Experts say the vast majority of those jobs aren't coming back.
"There is no infrastructure to produce textiles in the U.S. nor are there workers who would be willing to work for those wages," says Carlos Peyrelongue, a research analyst at Bank of Americ  (BAC)in Mexico City.
Peyrelongue warns that bringing back jobs like Roldan's to the U.S. would mean American shoppers would pay "substantially more, we're talking, 30%, 40%, 50%, 100% more" for clothes because U.S. workers are paid a lot more.
Roldan doesn't know the details of Trump's potential trade policies, such as a possible 20% tax on all Mexican imports into the U.S. But they are besides the point: Trump is bad news in her eyes.
"I feel like all this would go down, economically," says Roldan, referring to Puebla. "There's going to be more vandalism, corruption -- a lot more than what we are already living with."
Roldan's home state would be a prime target for Trump to bring manufacturing jobs of all types back to the U.S. It's population has boomed since 1994 when NAFTA, the free trade deal between Canada, Mexico and the U.S., took effect.
Trump blames NAFTA for a flood of manufacturing jobs to places like Puebla, and threatens to withdraw from the deal if it isn't improved to benefit U.S. workers.
"It has been a one-sided deal from the beginning of NAFTA with massive numbers of jobs and companies lost," Trump tweeted on Jan. 26.
 Mexico's biggest fear right now is not Trump
Congressional nonpartisan research in 2015 concluded that NAFTA wasn't responsible for an exodus of jobs.
Still, workers from around Mexico have poured into Puebla over the last two and a half decades.
In 1990, the state of Puebla had 4.1 million residents. In 2015, over 6.1 million Mexicans called Puebla home. Car dealerships and manufacturing plants are everywhere here. Volkswagen's largest plant outside of Germany is in Puebla. Audi just opened a plant in Puebla in September. You can't miss trucks carrying newly finished cars.
While Roldan fears Trump puts her job at risk, her boss, Gustavo Bojalil, warns that Trump better be careful what he wishes for. Roldan might not go to the U.S. but Bojalil argues many other Mexicans workers will.
"If there's less work here, what do you think is going to happen? More Mexicans are going to go to the United States," says Bojalil, who employs 180 workers at his plant in Puebla.
2. Unstoppable stocks?: U.S. stocks keep hitting fresh record highs.
Over the past four trading days, the Dow Jones industrial average, S&P 500 and Nasdaq have consistently climbed to new heights.
U.S. stock futures are holding steady on Wednesday. Even a small move higher at the open would mean more records.
European markets are mostly positive in early trading.
Asian markets are mixed.
The head of the U.S. Federal Reserve -- Janet Yellen -- could give the markets a direction when she testifies before Congress for a second consecutive day starting at 10 a.m. ET.
On Tuesday, Yellen signaled in her testimony that the next interest rate hike could come as early as March.
Before the Bell newsletter: Key market news. In your inbox. Subscribe now!
3. Stocks to watch -- Fortress, Health care, AIG: Shares in asset manager Fortress Investment Group (FIG) are surging in extended trading after it agreed to be bought by the Japanese firm SoftBank. The deal is worth $3.3 billion in cash.
Shares in Cigna (CI) and Anthem (ANTX) could be on the move after Cigna said on Tuesday it's calling off its $54 billion deal with Anthem.
The announcement came hours after Aetna (AET) and Humana (HUM) said they were calling off their $34 billion merger.
Both deals were targeted by the Justice Department and were recently blocked by federal judges, citing antitrust concerns.
Shares in American International Group (AIG) are dropping in extended trading as investors react to worse-than-expected quarterly results. The company reported a $3 billion loss on Tuesday. Analysts had been expecting a profit.
4. Earnings and economics: PepsiCo (PEP), Groupon (GRPN) and Hilton Hotels (HLT) are the main firms reporting earnings before the open Wednesday.
Cisco Systems (CSCO, Tech30), TripAdvisor (TRIP), GoDaddy (GDDY), CBS (CBS) and Kraft Heinz (KHC) are set to release results after the close.
On the economic front, the Census Bureau will released retail sales data for January at 8:30 a.m. ET. Economists will want to see if increased consumer confidence translated into more shopping.
Additionally, the Bureau of Labor Statistics will release its January inflation report at 8:30 a.m.
Download CNN MoneyStream for up-to-the-minute market data and news
5. Coming this week:
Wednesday - Cisco (CSCO, Tech30) and Kraft Heinz (KHC) earnings Thursday - Labor secretary nominee Andrew Puzder has his Senate confirmation hearing; Wendy's (WEN) earnings Friday - Campbell Soup (CPB) and Deere (DE) earnings; Wells Fargo (WFC) CEO expected to answer Senate's letter about its latest controversies
That means the company has a lot riding on the U.S.-China relationship, like its state-of-the-art factory in the eastern Chinese city of Hangzhou that pumps out 40 vehicles an hour.
 Ford ships Raptor pickups to China
"We've invested a lot in China," Schoch told CNN in an interview this week. "It's an integral part of future growth, we want to succeed here."
But that success could come down to the whims of geopolitics, with Trump having threatened during the campaign to impose tariffs of as much as 45% on Chinese products.
"I view the U.S. and China as two major economic powerhouses, and to be successful in the global environment, we're going to have to work with each other," Schoch said.

The early weeks of Trump's presidency suggest he may be less confrontational with Beijing than his campaign rhetoric indicated.
He didn't follow through on a vow to label China a currency manipulator on his first day in office. And last week, he backed off the idea of using U.S. policy on Taiwan as a bargaining chip.
But if he reverts to a more aggressive stance, the result could be a damaging tit-for-tat on trade between Washington and Beijing.
"I have a general view that a trade war would have no winners," Schoch said, echoing recent comments by President Xi.
 Why is Trump backing off his China threats?
One fear is that a spike in tensions could provoke a "nationalist backlash," he said, pointing to the anti-Japan protests that erupted in China in 2012 over a territorial dispute. Japanese companies like Toyota were targeted during the demonstrations, some of which turned violent.
"I don't see that happening," Schoch said. "I think Chinese customers think about American companies differently."
But KFC-owner Yum Brands (YUM) and McDonald's (MCD) both said their China businesses suffered last year from anti-U.S. protests over an international tribunal's ruling on territorial issues in the South China Sea.
 China hits GM joint venture with $29 billion fine
Ford's operations in China aren't purely American, though.
Like other foreign carmakers, it works with local partners in China. Ford has joint ventures with two state-owned companies, Changan Automobile Group and Jiangling Motors.
"They provide valuable insight to what the government is aiming for in terms of their policies and they can help us interpret how we need to think about this," Schoch said.
India's economy is growing fast, and its IT outsourcing industry is one of the biggest drivers of that growth.
It contributes nearly 10% of India's gross domestic product and generated close to $150 billion in revenue last year, according to government data. It's also a massive job creator -- employing 3.7 million people at home and abroad.

The sector has grown at an incredible pace over the past two decades -- in 2000, its revenues were only $8 billion and it only employed 340,000 people.
That growth has seen big Indian outsourcing firms like Tata Consultancy Services (TCS), Wipro (WIT) and Infosys (INFY) become recognizable global brands.
Why it's important to the world
India accounts for more than half of the global outsourcing market, and around $108 billion of its total revenue was generated overseas -- particularly in the West.
The U.S. and the U.K., both of which appear poised to crack down on immigration following Trump's election and the Brexit vote, together take up 79% of India's technology exports. Add the rest of Europe, and that share goes up to 90%.

Major global firms that Indian IT companies cater to include Deutsche Bank (DB), IBM (IBM, Tech30), Microsoft (MSFT, Tech30) and British Airways.
It's an example of globalization in action. The Indian outsourcing industry has 640 development centers spread out across more than 80 countries worldwide.
Nearly 3 million of the industry's workers service overseas clients, according to data from India's National Association of Software and Service Companies (Nasscom).
The outsourcing industry creates another 10 million jobs indirectly, Nasscom estimates, and the millions of engineering graduates India churns out every year make up about 38% of the sector's global talent pool.

What happens next?
U.S. immigration data shows that 70% of all H-1B applications come from Indians, and Indian tech CEOs argue that there aren't enough skilled American workers to bridge the gap if the Trump administration decides to crack down.

"Only two things can happen" if Indian workers can no longer move to the U.S., Nasscom president R. Chandrashekhar told CNNMoney late last month.
"Either the work will remain undone, or the jobs will shift out of the U.S. -- both of which are, I believe, not desirable consequences."
-- Sara O'Brien and Sugam Pokharel contributed reporting
The company picked up a much larger stake in Apple (AAPL, Tech30), buying up tens of millions of shares and increasing its stake in the company by 277%. That's on top of the 55% increase Berkshire Hathaway reported its stake in Apple rose between its second- and third-quarter.
The fund brushed off several stocks in which it formerly held massive stakes. It completely dumped its stake in Deere (DE). It sold off the vast majority of its Walmart (WMT) and Verizon (VZ, Tech30) stock. It formerly owned more than 15 million shares of Verizon, but now has just 928. Its Walmart stake dipped to 1.4 million shares from nearly 13 million.
Berkshire also made new investments in agrochemical firm Monsanto (MON) and satellite radio company Sirius XM (SIICF).
But an initial analysis of its 2017 consumer base found that it remained riskier than Humana could tolerate. So the company is exiting all 11 states where it sells individual policies, both on the Obamacare exchange and outside of it.
"We are again seeing signs of an unbalanced risk pool based on the results of the 2017 open enrollment period, therefore we've decided that we can't continue to offer this coverage in 2018," said Bruce Broussard, Humana's chief executive, in a conference call with investors.
The insurer, which had roughly 152,000 individual market policyholders, expects to lose $45 million in that segment. Executives noted that they are already seeing higher-than-exepected pharmacy use and admissions among enrollees.
Humana is the first major insurer to exit Obamacare under President Trump, who has promised to repeal the law. On Twitter, the president pointed to the announcement as another example of how the Affordable Care Act is failing.
Obamacare continues to fail. Humana to pull out in 2018. Will repeal, replace & save healthcare for ALL Americans. https://t.co/glWEQ0lNR4
The past year has been a rocky one for the landmark health reform law. Faced with sicker than expected enrollees, insurers pulled back from the market and hiked premiums. Obamacare supporters called it a transition period that would only last a year. Opponents pointed to the problems as a sign that Obamacare was collapsing and things would only get worse.
 Insurers warn: We're outta here with no Obamacare replacement
Humana was among several major insurers to pull back from Obamacare for 2017, after having to pay higher-than-expected claims for its patients. The Louisville, Kentucky-based insurer stopped offering coverage in eight states and nearly 90% of the counties where it operated last year.
 Trump pulls Obamacare ads days ahead of enrollment deadline
Insurers have also grown increasingly jittery as Congressional Republicans remain divided over how to repeal and replace Obamacare. Several large carriers -- and the industry's lobbying group -- have warned that they will leave unless lawmakers provide more clarity about their plans for the health reform law.
Aetna and Anthem (ANTX) recently said they were evaluating their participation in the exchanges. They plan to announce whether they will continue in the spring, which is when carriers have to file their policies and premiums for 2018 with state regulators.
 Aetna-Humana & Anthem-Cigna: Two mergers die in one day
Humana said it will continue to service its current policyholders throughout the rest of this year.
The news comes hours after Aetna and Humana said they're calling off their $34 billion merger. Just hours later Cigna (CI) said it's calling off its $54 billion deal with Anthem.
Both deals were targeted by the Justice Department and were recently blocked by federal judges, citing antitrust concerns. Aetna said it will pay Humana a $1 billion breakup fee.
Clearly, Goldman Sachs has already emerged as a big winner of Trump's pledge to "do a big number" on Dodd-Frank, the 2010 Wall Street reform law.
"If you really think deregulation is coming and banks are going to be cut loose, who's going to win? It's going to be them. We've seen that time and again," said Michael Block, chief market strategist at Rhino Trading.
Goldman's market value surged by $4 billion on the day that Trump signed an executive order beginning the process of rolling back Dodd-Frank.
 Elizabeth Warren probes Goldman's ties to Trump
The irony is that Trump slammed Wall Street and Goldman Sachs during the campaign. He even used an image of Goldman Sachs CEO Lloyd Blankfein during his closing campaign ad while condemning the "global power structure."
But Trump has gone from criticizing Wall Street and Goldman Sachs to hiring Goldman veterans to help him govern. Trump's two biggest economic hires are Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin, a former Goldman Sachs partner, and top economic adviser Gary Cohn, who stepped down in December as chief operating officer of Goldman Sachs.
Analysts say those hires may actually be helping Goldman stock.
"With so many Goldman Sachs alums in the administration, maybe some think that policies will skew in the bank's favor," said Michael Wong, a Morningstar analyst who covers Goldman Sachs.
Wong cautioned that he doesn't think "anyone should make an investment thesis based on that."
Mnuchin, who was confirmed on Monday as treasury secretary, is in favor of reforming the Volcker Rule, which prevents big banks like Goldman Sachs from making risky bets with their own money.
Goldman's post-election surge can't really be explained by higher interest rates. Higher rates provide a bigger boost to the profits of consumer-focused lenders like Bank of America and Wells Fargo (WFC) than investment banks like Goldman.
"Higher interest rates is not playing that much into Goldman Sachs' valuation," said Wong.
But Goldman Sachs would benefit from faster growth and increased CEO confidence that could spark a wave of lucrative M&A and IPO deals.
 Janet Yellen debunks Trump's Dodd-Frank case
Goldman shares have made a remarkable rebound from the 2008 crisis when many investors feared the complete collapse of the financial system. Goldman is up 380% since its low of $52 in November 2008.
While JPMorgan Chase returned to its pre-crisis high in 2013, it wasn't until now for Goldman stock. Other big banks like Bank of America (BAC), Citigroup (C) and Morgan Stanley (MS) are nowhere near their all-time highs.
But is the Goldman rally overdone?
After all, not even Trump is talking about completely repealing Dodd-Frank and efforts to water regulation down are running into resistance, including from Federal Reserve chief Janet Yellen.
Wong thinks Goldman shares are "slightly overvalued" at this point.
"They're pricing in a lot of perfection in terms of deregulation and the ability to take advantage of that," Block said.
The retailers are concerned that a border adjustment tax would raise their prices, which would hurt sales and profits.
 Trump's tariff or tax reform - Which will Congress pick?
The chief execs of Target (TGT), JCPenney (JCP), Best Buy (BBY) and Gap (GPS), as well as Tractor Supply Co. (TSCO), AutoZone (AZO) and Joanne Fabrics are traveling to Capitol Hill Wednesday, according to a source familiar with the lobbying plans.
The CEOs will meet with House Ways & Means Chairman Kevin Brady, whose committee typically gets first crack at drafting tax laws, as well as leaders from both houses of Congress and both parties.
Spokespeople for the seven retailers did not respond to a request for comment on their plans. But their trade group issued a statement confirming that retail CEOs plan to lobby on Wednesday.
A border adjustment tax is not actually a tax or a tariff. It would be a fundamental change to the tax accounting treatment on imports and exports.
In a tax system with border adjustment, companies would no longer be able to deduct the cost of their imported goods, which would raise the taxable income of any business purchasing imports. But sales of their exports would no longer be subject to U.S. tax, which would allow American companies to reduce the prices for products they sell abroad.
 A fight is coming over the border adjustment tax
That credit for exports could lessen the impact of the tax hit on imports for some manufacturers, such as automakers, who both import and export goods. But it has little upside for retailers who purchase overseas goods to sell here, but don't manufacture goods to sell elsewhere.
Trump and members of his administration have yet to weigh on their view of a border adjustment tax. But during his confirmation hearing, Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said that Trump doesn't want a broad border tax, but instead was looking at something targeted at companies moving jobs to foreign companies.
On the day Trump signed an executive order calling for a wall to be built along the U.S.-Mexican border, White House spokesman Sean Spicer suggested a 20% tariff on goods imported from Mexico could be a way to pay for the wall. Administration officials later walked back that idea.
-- CNNMoney's Patrick Gillespie and Jeanne Sahadi contributed to this report
The Philadelphia 76ers were first when they announced an ad deal with StubHub in May.
Then nothing until October when the Sacramento Kings broke the news that they'd signed a deal with Blue Diamond Growers.
Since January three teams have announced deals -- the Celtics partnered with GE, the Nets teamed up with software company Infor, and the Utah Jazz signed a deal with another software company, Qualtrics.

The Jazz deal is unique because instead of a Qualtrics logo, the jersey patch will be a logo for the 5 For the Fight Foundation, a charity that raises money for cancer research.
The three recent deals may be a sign that more are on the way, but the slow pace is a sign that it's been hard to put a value on the new ad space -- a 2.5-inch square on the left shoulder of a player's uniform.
 Michael Jordan wins his Chinese name back
Teams have to sell the ad space themselves, so they're all negotiating individually with companies. That means there's no baseline for how much the patches can sell for -- better teams can demand more money.
It's also a newer concept for American sports teams, making it harder for advertisers to determine what they'll get for their investment.
Players can also affect the value of a patch if they sign a deal with a rival company or get embroiled in a scandal.
The patches are not a long-term guarantee -- they're part of a three-year pilot program in the NBA. And most of the companies that have agreed to buy the jersey ad space have done so as part of a larger marketing deal.
"If we cross the pond to Europe, Middle East, Asia -- the model exists," said sports business professor Lee Igel. "This is the one model where other countries have been doing it and the U.S. is catching up."
Igel said the patches are an indication of how many new ways there are to make money in sports. But more opportunities means companies are more focused on results.
"Everybody is much more mindful of where dollars are going and who you're doing business with," Igel said. "It's not enough to get eyeballs on your company logo on game night. It's about how that translates into new customers."
There are some restrictions on who teams can partner with on the ads.
They can't be purchased by alcohol and gambling companies or media providers. Also prohibited are competitors of Spalding, which makes the league's basketballs, and Tissot, the watchmaker who makes the shot clocks.
The patches won't appear on jerseys until the 2017-2018 season, so it's not too late for teams to land sponsors.
Logan has a couple of looks including a leather jacket over gray T-shirt or a T-shirt that says "Play Loud" under an unbuttoned plaid shirt.
"A boy character has been a top request from our fans for decades," American Girl spokesperson Julie Parks said in a statement Tuesday.

"We do an enormous amount of research with girls and their parents, and the one thing we've heard loud and clear is a desire for more—specifically more characters and stories from today—with more experiences, more diversity, and more interests," Parks said. Thursday will also mark the return of one of the classic American Girl dolls -- Felicity Merriman, a young colonial girl who was archived in 2011.
In addition, American Girl will begin offering two new dolls later in 2017. A contemporary doll named Z Yang, who's a filmmaker, will be released in the Spring. And Nanea, a historical doll who lives in Hawaii during World War II, will be released this fall.
The 18-inch figures sell for $115 each, or about $140 for the doll, a collection of accessories and the doll's book.
Asked during Tuesday's U.S. Senate hearing if there's any truth to claims that banks aren't lending, Yellen said an "extremely low number" of small businesses complained of access to credit as their main problem.
The Fed chief quickly rattled off numbers from a National Federation of Independent Businesses survey showing that just 4% of respondents are unable to get the loans they need.
"We have seen healthy growth in actual lending in the economy," Yellen said, noting that bank commercial and industrial lending has exceeded its 2008 peak.
Republicans have argued that Dodd-Frank has made U.S. banks less competitive against their global peers.

 Banks are lending a ton, despite what Trump says
But Yellen said U.S. banks are "quite profitable" and considered "quite strong relative to their counterparts." She credited the fact that American banks quickly built up capital, "as a result of our insistence they do so, following the financial crisis."
"I see well-capitalized banks that are regarded as safe, sound and strong," Yellen said, adding this gives them a "competitive advantage."
Investors seem to see it that way too.
Shares of Goldman Sachs (GS) and JPMorgan Chase (JPM), two of the symbols of American financial might, were on track to close at all-time highs on Tuesday. Goldman hasn't closed at an all-time high since 2007.
The White House has said that Dodd-Frank failed to address the Too Big To Fail problem exposed by the 2008 meltdown.
But Yellen believes the system is in fact safer and more resilient than a decade ago. She cited the banks' doubling of high-quality capital known as Tier 1 capital.
"I believe the financial system is much more resilient than it was," she said.
Senator Elizabeth Warren said that Yellen's responses to questions about financial regulation show that Trump and White House officials are "wrong about every major reason they've given to tear up Dodd-Frank."
Warren argued that Trump and his top economic official Gary Cohn, a former president at Goldman Sachs, want to return to the kind of lax regulation that led to the 2008 meltdown.
"We cannot afford to go down this road again," she said.
 Wall Street has a powerful seat at Trump's table
During the campaign, Trump criticized Yellen, saying she should be "ashamed of herself." While Trump now has three vacancies to fill at the Federal Reserve, Yellen doesn't plan to step down before her term expires in February 2018.
To be sure, Yellen didn't argue that Dodd-Frank is perfect as is.
Like others, the Fed chief emphasized the importance of cutting the legal and compliance costs that Dodd-Frank has placed on community banks.
"We're very well aware of the burden they face and are looking for every way we can find to mitigate those burdens," she said.
For instance, Yellen suggested Congress should exempt community banks from the Volcker Rule, which restricts banks from making big bets with their own money.
Yellen also said she agrees with the principles laid out by Trump's recent executive order on how the U.S. financial system should be regulated.
Trump ordered Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin to use those broad principles to "consult" with regulators about changes that should be made to existing law.
"I look forward to working with the treasury secretary" and other regulators on this review, Yellen said.
But based on her comments on Tuesday, Yellen and Trump officials are likely to disagree about precisely what to do next.
And last month, Exxon said it would not give him the 2 million shares he was due from the company over the next decade. Instead, the shares were sold and the proceeds -- about $180 million -- were placed in a blind trust.
So far, that's good news for Tillerson.
Exxon's stock is now lower than where it was the day before Trump was elected. And it has lagged the broader rally despite an uptick in oil prices. Crude prices have surged nearly 20% since Election Day and are now hovering around $53 a barrel.
Exxon isn't the only big oil stock that's doing poorly. Rival Chevron (CVX), which is also in the Dow, has fallen 5% this year. And shares of BP (BP) and ConocoPhillips (COP) are down this year as well.
What's going on?
President Trump's pledge to drill more for oil in the U.S. and restart the controversial Dakota and Keystone pipelines that were stalled under President Obama should be good for oil producers, right?
Yes and no.
Increased production should lead to higher revenues and more energy sector jobs. However, a boost to the world's oil supplies also would put pressure on prices.
 Exxon plays catch-up after missing U.S. shale oil boom
The days of oil trading above $100 a barrel are long gone and may never return now that there are no longer any major fears about geopolitical tensions in the Middle East leading to a supply shortage.
If anything, there is now a glut of crude and natural gas thanks to advances in hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, technology.
Sure, OPEC nations have so far lived up to their promise to cut production. But the United States is not a member of OPEC.
And as long as Exxon, other American oil giants and smaller shale companies keep pumping and drilling, then crude prices may not wind up going that much higher. That could be bad news for the stock.
There are also some company specific reasons to explain why Exxon has not taken part in the broader market rally.
 Exxon profit falls 40% as cheap oil pain lingers
Exxon's most recent quarterly earnings missed forecasts. The company was also forced to take a $2 billion writedown to reflect the lower value of natural gas assets in the Rocky Mountain region that it inherited when it bought XTO Energy in late 2009.
And as my colleague Matt Egan has pointed out, Exxon made a big bet on drilling for oil in the Arctic and was late to capitalize on the U.S. shale gas boom. That could be another reason why the stock may continue to lag the broader market.
Ironically enough, electric car company (no gas required!) Tesla has been a market stud this year. Shares have surged more than 30% so far in 2017 and are not far from their all-time high.
So even though Trump is a fan of fossil fuel, has publicly questioned whether oil production has really led to climate change and has the biggest of Big Oil leaders in his cabinet, Exxon's stock could wind up doing poorly during Trump's tenure.
Yellen stressed that the U.S. economy is doing pretty well and has "continued to make progress." She called the U.S. job market strong and said prices are moving up at a faster pace.
"At our upcoming meetings, the committee will evaluate whether employment and inflation are continuing to evolve in line with these expectations, in which case a further adjustment of the federal funds rate would likely be appropriate," Yellen said.
The next Fed meeting is March 14-15. Yellen's words were widely interpreted as a strong hint the Fed might raise in March.
The U.S. 10-year bond yield rose immediately after Yellen's statement from 2.44% to 2.5%. That will likely cause mortgage rates to jump soon as well.
 U.S. economy adds a strong 227,000 jobs in January
"March is on the table," says Peter Boockvar, chief market analyst at The Lindsey Group, although he noted that she is "NOT committing herself" to a March hike.
The Fed currently predicts three rate hikes in 2017. That said, the Fed began 2016 predicting four rate hikes and ended up doing only one.
Wall Street is currently betting only about a 20% chance of a March rate hike. Boockvar thinks Yellen wants to get that probability to at least 50%.
Uncertainty about President Trump is the key reason Wall Street doesn't believe the Fed will hike rates in March. Yellen admitted she's not sure what Trump and the Republican-led Congress will do so the Fed is in wait and see mode.
"Some of the policies being discussed may raise deficits," she told the senators. "It's not a simple matter to evaluate."
She went on to say the Fed didn't have "enough clarity" yet on what policies will actually be enacted.
U.S. stocks were little changed Tuesday after Yellen's remarks. The Dow was slightly lower, but that follows many days of rallies. The Dow closed at an all-time high on Monday.
"We still think the Fed is unlikely to resume tightening before June," wrote Capital Economics, a forecasting firm.
"We're already looking for alternatives," says Bojalil, whose factory is in the city of Puebla, about 80 miles southeast of Mexico City. "We already went to Spain -- to Madrid, to Barcelona -- to try to negotiate and talk with the industry there."
Bojalil doubts the U.S. president will follow through with his threats against Mexico, especially on tariffs on Mexican goods.
"I don't think he's going to be able to get a 20% tariff," Bojalil told CNN's Leyla Santiago.
But Bojalil isn't taking any chances. He employs 180 people at his textile plants. Trump's potential tax on Mexican goods would hit his business hard, costing him revenue and nearly 30 jobs, he estimates.
 Mexican farmer's daughter: NAFTA destroyed us
Shrewd Mexican business owners like Bojalil are starting to look for ways to reduce their dependence on the U.S. economy as the uncertainty of Trump's policies looms large.
About 80% of Mexico's exports go north of the border. There's even an old saying: When the U.S. sneezes, Mexico catches a cold. Now Mexicans are looking for ways to inoculate themselves from the cold.
Beyond tariffs, Trump threatens to tax Mexican remittances and potentially withdraw from NAFTA. That would badly hurt Mexico's economy, experts say.
Mexico's president, Enrique Pena Nieto, recently announced a new push for trade deals with countries in Latin America, Asia and Europe.
"Mexico will become closer to Argentina and Brazil...to deepen and expand trade opportunities," Pena Nieta said on Jan. 23.
 Mexico doubles down on Trump contingency plan
Pena Nieto went on to note that Mexico would pursue agreements with Chile, Peru and Colombia, as well as Asian countries that were a part of the Trans-Pacific Partnership, a trade deal Trump killed.
Already, investment and interest in Mexico is starting to come from across the oceans.
Chinese auto company JAC Motors and Mexico's Giant Motors announced earlier in February they will invest $212 million in an existing car plant in Hidalgo, Mexico, to build SUVs.
Chinese telecommunications company Huawei has already been expanding its presence in Mexico.
Experts say that Trump's criticism of Mexico is only playing into the hands of China and others.
"My sense is that if [NAFTA] were to dissolve, we would see Chinese efforts to strengthen trade and other economic ties with Mexico," says Margaret Myers, director at the Inter-American Dialogue, a Washington think tank. "China-Mexico relations are at an all-time high."
Europe wants in too. Volkswagen's biggest factory outside Europe is in Puebla. Audi also opened a new plant in Puebla in September, and BMW recently announced plans for a future plant in Mexico.
Mexico's economic minister, Ildefonso Guajardo, and his counterparts in the European Union recently agreed to speed up trade talks to update an existing agreement between Mexico and the EU.
 Mexico's biggest fear right now isn't Trump
Europe has represented 40% of total foreign investment in Mexico since 2000. While the EU and Mexico had begun trade talks in 2013, there's a new sense of urgency to get a deal done.
"Modernizing the agreement, in our bilateral relationship, that's the No.1 item on the agenda," the European Union's ambassador to Mexico, Andrew Standley, told CNNMoney. "It's a shared desire to proceed as quickly as possible with this negotiation."
Some economists say challenges lie ahead for Mexico if it does pivot away from America, such as how it would untangle itself from the vast webs of supply chains in North America, not to mention its proximity to the U.S.
On top of that, Mexico's main exports are cars and auto parts. Brazil and Argentina make those too. Mexico would also compete with European automakers across the Atlantic. Plus the advantage of cheap labor in Mexico isn't as valuable when you consider shipping costs to Europe.
But some Mexicans appear poised to pursue this strategy. For Bojalil, the factory owner, he sees Trump's criticism as free publicity and an opportunity for the rest of the world.
"Thanks to President Trump, the whole world is turning to Mexico," says Bojalil.
Aetna (AET) said Tuesday it will pay Humana (HUM) a $1 billion breakup fee.
Anthem (ANTX) will owe Cigna (CI) a $1.85 billion breakup fee, according to their agreement terms.
Cigna is also seeking damages from Anthem in an amount totaling more than $13 billion, according to a public filing filing issued Tuesday. The filing states that damages "includes the lost premium value to Cigna's shareholders caused by Anthem's willful breaches of the Merger Agreement."
Anthem, however, insists the deal is not dead. The company said in a statement Tuesday that Cigna "does not have a right to terminate the agreement. Therefore, Cigna's purported termination of the Merger Agreement is invalid."
Cigna said in its public filing Tuesday that it "notified Anthem that it has terminated the Agreement and Plan of Merger." Cigna also said it filed a suit against Anthem in a Delaware court to ensure Anthem is not permitted to extend the kill date of their merger agreement. Anthem claims the termination date has already been extended to April 30, 2017.
That deal has been rocked by infighting between the companies. Cigna has long hinted it was searching for a way out of the takeover.
Anthem vowed to fight the federal judge's decision to block the deal, but Cigna said it did not intend to move forward.
 U.S. sues to block 2 major healthcare mergers
When then-Attorney General Loretta Lynch sued all four companies last year to block the two mergers, she said the combinations ran the risk of "drastically constricting competition" in health care.
The two mergers would have left the health insurance industry dominated by only three giant insurers. The third company is UnitedHealth (UNH).
The plant will get additional attention this week. President Donald Trump plans to visit the plant on Friday, White House spokesman Sean Spicer said Tuesday. Trump has clashed with Boeing on the cost of the new Air Force One. And his criticism of the Iran nuclear deal has placed an $8 billion sale of Boeing jets to Iran Air at risk.
 Trump move on Iran could cost jobs at Boeing
But the Machinists, which represents most of the factory workers at Boeing, won the right to have a vote to unionize the South Carolina facility.
A win would give the union even more leverage over Boeing in talks, preventing it from continuing production of its 787 Dreamliner jet during a strike at unionized plants.
A union loss would further encourage other manufacturers to open union-free plants in the South.
A union win Wednesday "won't be a turnaround for their labor movement. But it'd be a major step forward," said Gary Chaison, professor of industrial relations and labor historian at Clark University. "Just having enough support to hold an election is a very big deal. I think most of the workers at the Boeing plant had a predisposition to vote against the union."
But Chaison said it's still an uphill fight -- about 40% to 50% of organizing votes fail, he said.
South Carolina has the lowest share of unionized workers of any state -- less than 2%.
When Boeing moved to open the South Carolina plant, the company said it wanted to assure customers of the 787 Dreamliner, which is built there, that strikes wouldn't upset its production schedule.
The union filed an unfair labor practice, seeking to shut the plant before it even opened in 2011. The Obama administration's labor board sided with the union, arguing that Boeing was trying to punish workers for past strikes by opening a non-union plant in South Carolina instead of Washington. Before the labor board made a final decision, the union and Boeing reached a deal and the union dropped its complaint.
Now the fight is on again.
The South Carolina workers who want union representation say their unionized peers in Washington earn about $10 an hour more than they do. The top wage in Washington for the most common job category is $36 an hour, while it tops out at $22 an hour in South Carolina, according to Mike Evans, a union organizer.
"Do your children deserve as much as the children of Boeing children in Seattle?" said a union blog post to employees in South Carolina.
For its part, Boeing says pay scales are driven by wages in the local market, and that the South Carolina plant already pays better wages than a union-represented Boeing plant in Alabama. The company has warned workers they may be forced to go on strike against their wishes if the union comes in.
 Boeing pitches China facility as Trump-friendly
"The [Machinists union] has actively worked to prevent the success of Boeing South Carolina from the beginning of the operation here," the company said. "We have developed a culture of working together. This site doesn't have a union, and it doesn't need one."
Boeing (BA) has been cutting back on jobs -- employment in its commercial aircraft division is down about 8,000, or nearly 10%, in the last year. But many of those cuts have come from lines building narrow-body jets, not the 787.
The battle between Boeing and the union won't end with Wednesday's vote. If it loses, the union could try for another vote in a year. If it wins, it would then start trying to negotiate a contract with Boeing to cover the South Carolina workers. That would probably be a contentious process.
--CNN's Jeff Zeleny contributed to this report.
Today Coomer, 52, is a grandmother who manages a Valero gas station in Beattyville, Kentucky. It's a small, homey town that earned the unfortunate distinction of being America's "poorest white town" a few years ago.
As a manager, Coomer now earns a bit above the minimum wage. But the rest of her employees are still paid $7.25 an hour. America's federal minimum wage hasn't gone up since 2009, although many states and cities have hiked the wage on their own. Kentucky is not one of those states.
Coomer can feel the pain of the young moms that she employs.
One of them is Melissa Allen, 34. The circles under her eyes speak volumes about her stress. Allen works two jobs -- as a cashier at the Valero station and cleaning tourist cabins in the rolling Kentucky hills. Both jobs pay minimum wage.
"I've lived in poverty my entire life," Allen, breaking into tears, tells CNNMoney. "There's really no hope."
 Trump gives America's 'poorest white town' hope
Like many, Allen didn't want life to turn out this way. She had what she calls a "decent job" sewing firefighter uniforms at a company called Lion Apparel. But that factory in Beattyville closed. The company offered her a spot at a factory 45 miles away in West Liberty, but she was about to give birth and couldn't make the hour-long commute each way.
Her son Hayden, now 5, is the only thing that keeps her going.
Despite working two jobs -- over 50 hours a week -- she still qualifies for about $100 a month in food stamps because her take-home pay is so low. Allen struggles to pay her bills and has had her water and electric shut off at times.
"I don't understand why the minimum wage here can't be raised. I don't get that," she says, wiping her eyes.
During the campaign, Trump was all over the place on his minimum wage views. At one point he said it was "too high," then he said he would support raising it to $10 an hour.
 Most Americans not benefiting from Dow 20,000

Trump voters who want to see minimum wage raised
Coomer is a big fan of Trump's. She voted for President Obama but says she was "really disappointed" by him. The unemployment rate in Lee County, Kentucky was 10.9% when Obama took office. Today it's lower, 7.2%, but still far above the national average (4.8%).
If anybody can bring the jobs back to the Appalachia region of Kentucky, Coomer believes it's Trump. Allen isn't as optimistic.
"I hope it gets better. I really do, but I just don't want to live on false hope," she says, gazing out at the town that is a shadow of its formal glory days as a coal, oil and tobacco hub.
Lee County, where Beattyville is located, went overwhelmingly (81%) for Trump. Around town, there are frequent sightings of men wearing red "Trump" or "Make America Great Again" hats.
Even in this red Kentucky enclave, many Trump voters here want to see the minimum wage raised.
"It's cheaper to live here than probably most places in the country. But you can't live on $7.25," says Beattyville Mayor John Smith, a staunch Republican and Trump supporter.
Smith thinks it would be a huge benefit to the people of his town if Trump and Congress (or Kentucky state politicians) raised the minimum wage "up to $9 or $10 an hour." Polls show the vast majority of Americas are like Smith. They favor raising the minimum wage somewhat, although not to $15 an hour.
About 400 miles north of Beattyville lies Detroit, Michigan. The state went for Trump by 10,704 votes, largely thanks to a lot of struggling workers like Peggy Stewart.
 Trump vows 25 million jobs, most of any president

'I feel like somebody again'
"I wouldn't trade my job for nothing right now," Stewart told CNNMoney, at a cafe outside Detroit. "I'm working and I feel like somebody again."
Stewart, now 62, grew up in the foster care system in Detroit. Her family was broken up. She doesn't even know where her siblings are.
"It took a lot of strength to be able to be alive and say this today. I thank God, because I had no one," says Stewart.
Stewart has worked for as long as she can remember, often two or three jobs at a time to raise her kids. She was laid off because of health issues in her late 50s. Finding another job was a Herculean task. A corporate security company finally hired her a few months ago at $9 an hour, barely above Michigan's minimum wage of $8.90.
She actually worked for the same company in her 50s, when they paid her about $11 an hour.
 Visa crackdown puts these rural doctors at risk
She and her husband, Jim, still glance at each other with the kind of love and trust in their eyes that most people only dream of. Jim works the overnight shift. Because of their work schedules, they sometimes only spend time with each other when Jim drives Peggy to her shift.
"There's going to be days it just plain, excuse my language, sucks to be you," says Jim, who went through a long stretch of unemployment during the Great Recession when the family had to eat at food banks, before finally landing his current job at Ford.
Peggy voted for Trump and Jim voted libertarian. She says she "hopes it's not the biggest mistake of my life," but she felt like no one else had a plan to help working people.
The Stewarts pray Trump will raise wages, including the minimum wage. They don't think it should go to $15 because that deters people from getting skills to better themselves, but $9.30 or so could make a difference.
"Mr. Trump, please take care of us. We're looking to you," she says.
CNN's Poppy Harlow, Haley Draznin, Jeff Simon, Richa Naik and Logan Whiteside contributed to this report.
Congressional Republicans blame Obamacare for a lot of things, including making health insurance unaffordable, narrowing consumers' choice of doctors and hurting the U.S. economy. But one thing lawmakers haven't brought up in a while -- until now, at least -- is former GOP Vice Presidential candidate Sarah Palin's infamous claim that the government will determine whether senior citizens and disabled are worthy of care.
The resulting uproar engulfed the debate over the health reform bill that would become the Affordable Care Act. Republican lawmakers and conservative pundits decried the legislation as enabling the government "to pull the plug on Grandma," as Iowa Senator Charles Grassley said at the time.
 'Death panel' disputes erupt at Florida GOP congressman's town hall
At the heart of the controversy is whether Medicare will pay for doctors to discuss end-of-life options with patients. The idea was first introduced in 2009 as the Affordable Care Act was being crafted, but was dropped amid the furor.
In 2015, however, Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services officials quietly issued a new rule allowing Medicare reimbursement as a way to improve patients' ability to make decisions about their care.
Providers and patients are taking advantage of the program. Medicare paid doctors nearly $16 million for such consultations in the first six months of 2016.
In total, nearly 14,000 providers billed almost $35 million for advance care planning conversations for about 223,000 patients, according to data released last week by the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services. Full year figures won't be available until July, but use appears to be higher than anticipated.
Providers in California, New York and Florida led use of the policy, which pays about $86 a session for the first 30-minute office-based visit and about $75 per visit for any additional sessions.
The CMS rule requires no specific diagnosis and sets no guidelines for the end-of-life discussions. Conversations center on medical directives and treatment preferences, including hospice enrollment and the desire for care if patients lose the ability to make their own decisions. The conversations may occur during annual wellness exams, in separate office visits or in hospitals. Nurse practitioners and physicians' assistants may also seek payment for end-of-life talks.
End-of-life conversations have occurred in the past, but not as often as they should, said Paul Malley, president of Aging with Dignity, a Florida nonprofit. Many doctors aren't trained to have such discussions and find them difficult to initiate.
"For a lot of health providers, we hear the concern that this is not why patients come to us," he said. "They come to us looking to be cured, for hope. And it's sensitive to talk about what happens if we can't cure you."
 Employers worry GOP overhaul could harm job-based coverage
A 2014 report by the Institute of Medicine, a panel of medical experts, concluded that Americans need more help navigating end-of-life decisions. A 2015 Kaiser Family Foundation poll found that 89% of people surveyed said health care providers should discuss such issues with patients, but only 17% had had those talks themselves. (Kaiser Health News is an editorially independent program of the foundation.)
Proponents of advance care planning cheered evidence of the program's early use as a sign of growing interest in late-stage life planning. Being able to bill makes a difference, Malley said.
The new reimbursement led Dr. Peter Sutherland, a family medicine physician in Morristown, Tenn., to schedule more end-of-life conversations with patients last year.
"They were very few and far between before," he said. "They were usually hospice-specific."
Now, he said, he has time to have thorough discussions with patients, including a 60-year-old woman whose recent complaints of back and shoulder pain turned out to be cancer that had metastasized to her lungs. In early January, he talked with an 84-year-old woman with Stage IV breast cancer.
"She didn't understand what a living will was," Sutherland said. "We went through all that. I had her daughter with her and we went through it all."
Controversy, however, is threatening to reemerge in Congress over the funding. Representative Steve King, introduced the Protecting Life Until Natural Death Act last month that would revoke Medicare reimbursement for the sessions, which he called "yet another life-devaluing policy."
 HSAs: Big tax break or gimmick to benefit the wealthy?
"Allowing the federal government to marry its need to save dollars with the promotion of end-of-life counseling is not in the interest of millions of Americans who were promised life-sustaining care in their older years," King said in January.
While the fate of King's bill is uncertain -- the recently proposed measure hasn't seen congressional action -- it underscores deep feelings among conservatives who have long opposed such counseling and may seek to remove it from Medicare should Republicans attempt to make other changes to the entitlement program.
Kaiser Health News (KHN), a nonprofit health newsroom whose stories appear in news outlets nationwide, is an editorially independent part of the Kaiser Family Foundation. KHN's coverage of end-of-life and serious illness issues is supported by The Gordon and Betty Moore Foundation.
Bank CEO Tidjane Thiam said Tuesday that reaching the settlement removed a "major source of uncertainty for our future."
But it also cemented a second consecutive year of losses for the new CEO. Credit Suisse (CSGKF) lost 2.9 billion Swiss francs ($2.9 billion) in 2015.
Thiam was hired in 2015 and announced a major overhaul and cost cutting program just a few months into his tenure. He wants the bank to focus on wealth management and emerging markets.
The bank will cut between 5,500 and 6,500 jobs over the coming year, CFO David Mathers said on a conference call with investors.
On Tuesday, Thiam said that 2016 -- the first full year of implementing the new strategy -- was "challenging and busy 12 months."
DoJ vs big banks: $60 billion in fines for toxic mortgages
The company said it achieved 1.9 billion Francs ($1.9 billion) in savings in 2016 -- more than 500 million Francs ($500 million) above its target.
It also shed more than 7,250 jobs over the course of last year.
While losses were greater than analysts had anticipated, the bank's stock climbed 3% following its earnings statement on Tuesday.
The lackluster action comes after U.S. stocks hit fresh record highs on Monday.
The Dow Jones industrial average and S&P 500 have both rallied by between 3% to 4% since the start of the year. The Nasdaq is up a whopping 7%.
Shares in iPhone maker Apple (AAPL, Tech30) are trading near their highest level ever.
2. Janet Yellen in the hot seat: Federal Reserve chief Janet Yellen is giving semi-annual testimony to the U.S. Senate at 10 a.m. ET.
The Fed is considered the driving force behind the multi-year bull market rally in stocks since the Great Recession.
What Yellen says about the timing and magnitude of future interest rate hikes could keep the rally going full steam ahead -- or stop it dead in its tracks.
The Fed last raised rates in December.
Before the Bell newsletter: Key market news. In your inbox. Subscribe now!
3. Stocks to watch -- GM, Credit Suisse, Rolls-Royce: Shares in General Motors (GM) are getting a 4% boost premarket after automaker PSA Group said it's considering buying GM's Opel business unit in Europe.
Shares in Credit Suisse (CS) are rising by about 3% after the European bank said it would cut up to 6,500 jobs. It also reported that it lost 2.4 billion Swiss francs ($2.4 billion) in 2016.
Rolls-Royce  (RYCEY)is having a tough day in London trading. Shares in the aircraft engine-maker fell by about 4% after the firm warned that pre-tax profits in 2016 were down 49%.
The British engineering giant said in January that it reached settlements with authorities in the U.K., the U.S. and Brazil over bribery allegations. These large settlements contributed to the drop in profit.
4. Tech trouble: Toshiba's (TOSYY) chairman is stepping down as the firm revealed a $6.3 billion writedown at its troubled U.S. nuclear business.
The Japanese conglomerate missed its own deadline to report earnings earlier on Tuesday, sending shares down 8% in Tokyo.
Toshiba stock has lost about half its value since the company warned in December that it was expecting billion of dollars in nuclear-related losses.
In South Korea, prosecutors are again seeking an arrest warrant for the heir to the Samsung (SSNLF) business empire.
Lee Jae-yong, Samsung's de facto leader, has been under investigation as part of a huge political corruption scandal that has rocked South Korea.
Prosecutors are also seeking an arrest warrant for Samsung Electronics President Park Sang-jin.
A judge will decide whether the arrest warrants are valid.
5. Earnings and economics: Dr Pepper Snapple (DPS), Molson Coors (TAP), and T-Mobile (TMUS) are releasing earnings before the open Tuesday, while Caesars Entertainment (CZR) and Fossil (FOSL) plan to report earnings after the close.
On the economic front, new data shows the U.K. economy is experiencing higher inflation following its decision to leave the European Union.
Download CNN MoneyStream for up-to-the-minute market data and news
6. Coming this week:
Tuesday - Janet Yellen testifies before the U.S. Senate; T-Mobile (TMUS) earnings Wednesday - Cisco (CSCO, Tech30), PepsiCo (PEP), TripAdvisor (TRIP) and Kraft Heinz (KHC) earnings Thursday - Labor secretary nominee Andrew Puzder has his Senate confirmation hearing; Wendy's (WEN) earnings Friday - Campbell Soup (CPB) and Deere (DE) earnings; Wells Fargo (WFC) CEO expected to answer Senate's letter about its latest controversies
The iconic Japanese firm first warned in late December that it would lose several billion dollars from having to write down the value of the U.S nuclear construction business acquired in 2015. But the figure it announced Tuesday was even bigger than initially feared.

Toshiba shares closed down 8% for the day and have almost halved in value since news of the problems first emerged. The company now says it expects to have a negative net worth of $1.3 billion by the end of March, underlining its perilous financial state.
It has said it's considering selling a stake in its memory chip business to raise funds.
The numbers it announced Tuesday are only provisional, Toshiba said. It doesn't expect to be able to announce audited results for another month because it's investigating concerns about the accounting process at the U.S. nuclear division.
A nuclear bet gone sour
The company's U.S. subsidiary Westinghouse acquired nuclear construction business CB&I Stone and Webster in late 2015.
The acquisition was supposed to help Westinghouse complete nuclear reactor projects in Georgia and South Carolina. But the U.S. projects are running way over budget and behind schedule. Toshiba later admitted it may have overestimated the value of CB&I Stone and Webster.
 Investors wipe $6.6 billion off Toshiba's market value
Toshiba is one of Japan's best known multinational corporations, tracing its history back to the late 19th century.
The company made Japan's first light bulb and manufactured the country's first electric washing machines and refrigerators. It now makes everything from TVs to memory chips, and had turned to nuclear plant construction to try to help it recover in the wake of a massive $1.2 billion accounting scandal.
There were signs of a turnaround last year, Toshiba reported earnings of 115 billion yen ($977 million) through the first six months of its 2016 financial year.
 Uranium stocks are booming, thanks to Trump
But now the company is back on shaky ground, and Toshiba admits the huge investment in the nuclear business may have been another misstep.
"We may revise the positioning of nuclear business in the future if it's needed," CEO Satoshi Tsunakawa said in December.
-- Jethro Mullen, Yoko Wakatsuki and Junko Ogura contributed to this report.
In response, Brady said he has "read his letter and I disagree with all of it."
Brady said he thinks the law provides for those records to remain private. "In fact that letter misrepresents the legislative intent of that provision, which in fact creates confidentiality and privacy for Americans in their tax returns," he said.
That interpretation doesn't square with that of law professor George Yin, who used to be the chief of staff for the Joint Committee on Taxation.
As Yin reads the law, the chairman of Ways and Means, the Senate Finance Committee or the Joint Committee on Taxation may request anyone's tax returns -- including the president's -- from the Treasury secretary.
Related story: How Congress could get Trump's tax returns
And if one of the committees thinks releasing the returns to the House or Senate would further a legitimate committee purpose and be in the public interest, they can do that -- without Trump's consent, Yin said.
Justifying a public interest in Trump's tax returns might not be difficult.
The president's business holdings are vast, and the steps he's taken so far to eliminate potential conflicts of interest have not satisfied ethics experts and others.
During the 2016 presidential campaign and even while in office, Trump and his surrogates have said he would only release his tax returns after an IRS audit has been completed. But there's nothing preventing him from doing so during an audit.
 Why tax reform is a lot harder than it looks
Brady also took aim Monday at the IRS Commissioner, John Koskinen, who House conservatives have criticized. Some have tried unsuccessfully to force a vote to impeach him.
Koskinen came under fire during GOP hearings on his agency's handling of setting aside some groups' efforts to gain tax exempt status because of their political leanings. Even though he wasn't in the job during the episode, he was criticized for records disappearing relevant to a probe under his tenure.
Brady called Koskinen "the most corrupt IRS commissioner that I've ever dealt with -- continues in my view to mislead Congress, and until he's removed I don't think the IRS will ever regain its credibility and certainly isn't making an effort on customer service, and it's one of the reasons in our tax reform proposal we dramatically simplify the tax code."
The IRS, in a statement to CNN, responded to Brady's claims: "As Commissioner Koskinen has said numerous times, he has always testified truthfully before Congress. He remains focused on the important work of the IRS, including the successful start of this year's filing season for the nation‎'s taxpayers.
The stores insist these decisions were based on performance, but none shared any sales figures.
Ivanka Trump's company says it is growing and had "significant year-over-year revenue growth in 2016." But because it's a private company, Ivanka's brand doesn't have to disclose its financials.
But several retail experts said they believe the stores' decisions were likely driven by business factors.
One veteran retail analyst points to Ivanka's decision to step away from the company as evidence that the brand may not be going strong.
"If the Ivanka Trump brand were going to be the next Ralph Lauren or Tory Burch, do you think Ivanka might've figured out a way to keep her finger in the pot, stay part of it?" said the analyst, who asked not to be identified.
 Trump brand takes another hit
Another retail analyst, Richard Jaffe from research firm Stifel, said companies like Nordstrom make decisions based on money.
"It isn't about a woman named Ivanka or her father -- it's about the hundreds of thousands of customers who come into the store and say no this is not for me," Jaffe said. "When a customer votes with their dollar, you recognize that it's your job to offer newness and novelty to inspire them to buy."
Jaffe said there are likely lots of Trump supporters who shop at Nordstrom, but if sales are down, that means they're not buying the product either.
The different demographics of the Ivanka and Donald Trump brands may make Ivanka's line more susceptible to political winds, according to Jamie Turner, the author and CEO of 60SecondMarketer.com.
Ivanka's brand, which caters to Millennials, may be more "sensitive to what they see as politically incorrect," he said. That could drive them to "react to what's going on in the Trump administration through their pocketbooks."
"The Donald Trump brand skews older. They focus on older males who might not be as sensitive to the things he's saying," Turner said.
 Kellyanne Conway unrepentant for Ivanka Trump plug
Nordstrom (JWN), which said it will stop carrying Ivanka's line, said earlier this month that "over the past year, and particularly in the last half of 2016, sales of the brand have steadily declined to the point where it didn't make good business sense for us to continue with the line for now."
Ivanka's sales surged in late 2015, according to Slice Intelligence, a retail analysis firm that used data from five stores that carry her products. The uptick in sales came just months after Donald Trump announced his run for president.
But by January 2017, online sales of Ivanka's brand dropped 26% compared with the previous year, according to Slice.
--Danielle Wiener-Bronner contributed to this report.
When they can't agree, they temporarily "suspend" it. And when the suspension ends the debt ceiling resets at the level where it was plus whatever Treasury borrowed in the suspension period.
On March 15, the latest suspension expires and the debt limit will likely reset a little north of $20 trillion.
If Congress has not voted by mid-March to either extend the suspension or raise the ceiling, Mnuchin will have to start using special accounting measures just to keep paying the country's bills without violating the borrowing limit.
And that task will become increasingly treacherous as the so-called "X" date approaches.
The "X" date is when the special accounting measures are exhausted, at which point Treasury would only be able to pay bills with the revenue coming in. Since the federal government runs deficits every year, that revenue is never sufficient to cover all payments. That's why the Treasury borrows in the first place, to make up the difference.
 Steven Mnuchin: 'I'd like us to raise the debt ceiling sooner rather than later'
That's why, contrary to what many conservatives like to say, raising the debt ceiling isn't a "license to spend more." It's more like a license to continue paying what the country already owes.
Those obligations -- approved over the years by both parties -- include paying bondholders, federal contractors, Social Security recipients, tax filers owed refunds and a vast array of other parties.
If lawmakers don't do something before the "X" date, the United States would default on some of its debts. That could push world markets into a tailspin and send interest rates soaring. It could ruin the sterling credit of the United States, and cause a lot of economic tumult. Not exactly what a Treasury secretary wants to happen on his watch.
Mnuchin will soon have to give lawmakers his best estimate of when the "X" date will be. The Bipartisan Policy Center, an outside think tank, calculates that the extraordinary measures could last through July, possibly a little longer.
While some lawmakers might want to use the debt ceiling debate to get what they want before they approve an increase, Mnuchin said during his confirmation hearing that he'd prefer to skip any drama.
"Honoring the U.S. debt is the most important thing. ... I would like us to raise the debt ceiling sooner rather than later."
He also might argue that the longer Congress delays, the more unnecessary costs the federal government will incur.
As past debt ceiling standoffs have shown, U.S. borrowing costs rise the closer to the "X" date Congress waits to act.
And forcing Treasury to use extraordinary accounting measures just to stay under the borrowing limit consumes a lot of federal employees' time.
"It's not an effective use of government resources," said Shai Akabas, the Bipartisan Policy Center's director of fiscal policy.
Delta (DAL) said it's not just investing in an airline, but in a country's economy.
"This new investment demonstrates Delta's confidence in Mexico's future and deepens our relationship with Aeroméxico," Delta President Ed Bastian said in a statement.
 Mexico ready to retaliate by hurting U.S. farmers
Despite Bastian's confidence, Mexico's future is highly uncertain right now given President Trump's policy plans. He's considering a 20% tax on Mexican imports, a tax on Mexican remittances and, above all, he wants Mexico to pay for the border wall.
Mexicans are also losing their buying power. The country's currency, the peso, is near an all-time low, and Trump's threats continue to weigh it down. On top of that, the government raised gas prices as much as 20% in January, causing a ripple effect of higher prices for food and public transportation.
And wage growth in Mexico isn't keeping up with the higher prices and weakened peso.
Against that backdrop, Delta and Aeromexico could face a rough ride ahead.
However, the move could make sense in the long run. Mexico is Latin America's second largest nation with a countless number of vacation locales. The weak peso could actually encourage more U.S. travelers to head south of the border for vacation to take advantage of a good exchange rate.
Plus, Delta's move may help it keep up with competition from U.S. airlines. In recent years, JetBlue (JBLU), Spirit Airlines (SAVE) and Southwest (LUV) have increased their number of flights and destinations in Latin America.
Delta has a major footprint in the region. It has 1,300 weekly flights to Latin America and the Caribbean, flying to 49 destinations.
Icahn has been a vocal critic of EPA rules that require refiners like CVR (CVI) to either blend their oil with renewable fuels or buy credits. Icahn told CNN in December the EPA's renewable fuel standard rules are "natural stupidity."
Icahn's new role as Trump's regulation-buster has given him a powerful platform to push for getting rid of this EPA rule. The legendary investor has said he was even consulted on Trump's selection of Scott Pruitt as the new head of the EPA.
Now, Senate Democrats including Elizabeth Warren and Al Franken are flagging concerns over just how closely Icahn's business interests align with his role in the Trump administration.
The CVR episode suggest a "conflict of interest between Mr. Icahn and advice he gave President Trump on the nomination of Mr. Pruitt," the senators wrote in a letter on Monday to White House Counsel Donald McGahn II.
Icahn's "sprawling business empire and potentially unlimited portfolio in the administration" present an "unacceptable risk" of "real or potential conflicts of interest," the lawmakers said.
Five other Democratic senators signed the letter: Sheldon Whitehouse, Sherrod Brown, Tammy Baldwin, Amy Klobuchar and Debbie Stabenow.
 Elizabeth Warren probes Goldman's ties to Trump
The lawmakers note that his firm, Icahn Enterprises, invests in a broad range of industries regulated by the federal government, including auto, railcars, and mining.
The letter asked the White House to respond to a series of questions before Wednesday on Icahn's role, including whether he is a federal employee, if he's been barred from providing advice on any specific regulations and whether he'll be required to divest any of his holdings.
The senators also want to know whether Icahn has recused himself from any matters and if any steps have been taken to "prevent his access to non-public, confidential or otherwise privileged information."
The White House didn't respond to a request for comment.
 Stocks hit record again. Is Trump the reason?
Before he was elected, Trump suggested Icahn would be his choice as treasury secretary. Ultimately, Trump selected Icahn to help him overhaul federal regulations -- one of the president's major priorities to unleash the U.S. economy.
"He is not only a brilliant negotiator, but also someone who is innately able to predict the future especially having to do with finances and economies," Trump said when he announced Icahn's new role.
But even Icahn couldn't have predicted how his 2012 purchase of CVR stock would turn into a controversy in a Trump White House. Icahn's firm Icahn Enterprises owns an 82% stake in the oil refiner, making it one of his biggest positions.
Icahn has warned that the EPA's renewable fuel standard rule will cost CVR $200 million this year. CVR has even filed a lawsuit against the EPA over the law, according to press reports.
Pruitt, Trump's pick to lead the EPA, has been critical of the rule, calling it "unworkable" in its current form during his Senate confirmation hearing.
Wall Street is betting CVR will emerge as a big winner of Trump's deregulation push. Shares of CVR have surged 68% since Trump's victory.
CVR's success has helped lift Icahn Enterprises (IEP) too. Shares of Icahn's firm have soared 18% since Trump's victory.
Buying a new fleet of small single-aisle jets would be a radical departure for the Dubai-based airline. Emirates today relies solely on double-deck Airbus A380 superjumbo jets and Boeing 777s that seat from 266 all the way up to 615 passengers. It is the largest operator in the world for both.
 The world's shortest superjumbo flight
It's been more than 20 years since the airline last flew a single-aisle jet in its fleet and Emirates' strategy shift may set up a cut-throat competition between Boeing and Airbus, the two biggest airplane makers.
Emirates uses its advantageous geography on the north side of the Arabian peninsula to reach billions of people within an eight hour flight. Its strategy is designed to connect two distant points on the planet using a single stop in Dubai, but its massive jets aren't right for every route.
The airline in the coming years is plotting a move to a sprawling new airport, Dubai World Central, from its home at Dubai Internationa. Clark said the greater number of runways and gates means it could serve smaller cities.
 Dubai airport widens gap over London's Heathrow Airport
But before a decision is made, Emirates must first weather a brewing storm in the global economy and declining per passenger profit. Falling oil prices have been a boon for travelers seeking lower fares, but "we are notorious in our business of racing to the bottom whenever there is some advantage given to us and this is no exception," he said.
"The last three of four years as the oil prices come off, we have reduced our fares to point of...stupidity in my view. That has affected our bottom line," said Clark. "We have a difficult time in global economics. We have a difficult time in global geopolitics and there is a degree of volatility out there."
Emirates already has tens of billions of dollars of aircraft on order with both the Boeing in the U.S. and Airbus in Europe, but it has slowed down its plans for buying more. The three options on Clark's desk again delays a decision on whether or not to buy Boeing 787s or Airbus A350s. Emirates canceled an order for 70 A350s in 2014 and recently deferred a batch of superjumbo A380s to 2018 and 2019.
 Airbus isn't giving up on its A380 superjumbo
"When the time is right we will decide," said Clark. "But so far, we are just biding our time to see which way it all pans out."
At at a time when Middle East carriers are looking to curry favor with the Trump administration to ensure they continue to be allowed access to U.S. airports, Emirates' decision on big airplane purchases from the U.S. or Europe could have a political tinge.
 Trump faces delicate balancing act between U.S. and foreign airlines
U.S. carriers, Delta Air Lines, United Airlines and American Airlines, have urged the State Department to review a treaty that allows the airlines of the U.S. and the home countries of fast-growing Emirates, Qatar Airways and Etihad Airways unfettered access to each other's airports. As the trio has expanded in the U.S., that has drawn claims of illegal subsidies for the foreign airlines. It's a claim the state-supported trio denies.
President Trump signaled in a meeting February 9 with airline CEOs that the administration will work to protect U.S. carriers from foreign competition, but has not specified how. Sean Spicer, White House Press Secretary, has also indicated that preserving manufacturing jobs like those at Boeing is a driving force behind the administration's thinking.
But a closer look at lending statistics suggests that this dramatic rhetoric about banks not lending doesn't match up with reality.
In fact, banks are lending a ton to businesses these days. Commercial and industrial loans from commercial banks are an all-time high of $2.1 trillion last November, according to the Federal Reserve.
Business lending did take a hit during the 2008 Wall Street meltdown. However, lending bottomed out after the Great Recession ended and bank loans to businesses have nearly doubled from the low.
That means banks ramped up lending even after former President Obama signed Dodd-Frank into law in July 2010 in hopes of staving off another financial crash.
For instance, in 2012 just as key elements of Dodd-Frank were being phased, commercial and industrial loans jumped by 12%, according to the Fed. Lending was up another 7% in 2013 and 12% in 2014.
Darrell Duffie, a finance professor at Stanford University, said Trump's lending claim "is too broad."
"U.S. banks have been providing large amounts of credit to businesses, much more than their European counterparts," he said.

 Tough federal bank regulator calls it quits
Overall, 79% of small businesses that applied for a bank loan were approved for at least some financing, according to a 2015 Fed survey of small businesses.
Big banks would love regulatory relief. But that's not necessarily because they find it difficult to lend.
"Loan growth remains robust," Marianne Lake, JPMorgan Chase's chief financial officer, said during the bank's conference call last month.
JPMorgan (JPM) bragged about how it ended 2016 with record loan balances of $189 billion in its commercial bank. That's up an impressive 14% from the end of 2015.
One analyst, Kenneth Usdin from Jefferies, even complimented JPMorgan during the call on "another great year of double-digit loan growth."
Bank of America (BAC) also seems to be navigating the Dodd-Frank world pretty okay, when it comes to loans. BofA CEO Brian Moynihan said last month that commercial business loan growth "kicked up" during the fourth quarter as mid-size business borrowing was "strong."
Even Wells Fargo, which has been grappling with a scandal that's hurt its reputation, is lending more. Wells Fargo's (WFC) commercial loan book increased by 11% in the fourth quarter to nearly $507 billion.
Barney Frank, one of Dodd-Frank's authors, recently told CNNMoney there's "no evidence" to support Trump's claim that the law is killing lending.
"If we had inflicted a disaster on the American financial system, it would have shown up," Frank said.
 Wall Street has a powerful seat at Trump's table
Still, critics argue that Dodd-Frank made banks too risk-averse, hurting less-proven young companies.
"The only businesses that can obtain loans are those that can prove they don't actually need the loan," Harvey Pitt, who served as SEC commissioner under former President George W. Bush, told CNNMoney.
These early-stage companies aren't able to reliably turn to banks for loans because regulations have raised lending standards, Pitt said.
"Dodd-Frank has made it much harder for those businesses that are the true generators of economic growth to raise capital," he said.
To Pitt's point, the Fed small business survey shows that 50% of bank loan applicants faced a financing shortfall, meaning they received a smaller loan than they requested. Smaller businesses were dramatically more likely to run into loan roadblocks than larger ones.
Still, it only makes sense that banks would become more conservative after the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression. And unproven businesses have been able to turn to alternative sources of capital like venture capital and peer-to-peer lending.
None of this is to say that Dodd-Frank is perfect. Even Frank admits that community and midsize banks have been hurt by increased legal and compliance costs.
It's just tough to argue that Dodd-Frank has made it impossible to get a loan.
"I understand that may be a popular thing to say, but I don't think there's any evidence," James Pethokoukis, a columnist at the American Enterprise Institute, told CNBC.
Some strategists believe Trump's stimulus plans and talk of killing many burdensome regulations are the reasons stocks are soaring.
Or perhaps this is better characterized as a continuation of the Barack Obama rally instead?
You could argue that POTUS 44 has dealt POTUS 45 a pretty good hand.
The solid job market and overall economy that Trump inherited may be the reason consumers and businesses are so confident.
But investors (and financial journalists) are often quick to give the president more credit -- and blame -- than they probably deserve for the performance of the stock market.
RBC strategist Jonathan Golub pointed this out in a report on Monday, one that was aptly titled "Message to Market: It's Not All About Donald."
 Trump isn't killing the bull market
Golub noted that the S&P 500 rose nearly 7% from late June through Election Day -- a time when most polls were predicting that Hillary Clinton would be the next president.
But stocks have continued to rally since then, rising another 8% since Trump pulled off the upset (at least to the mainstream media and Wall Street) victory.
You can't have it both ways. It makes no logical sense to suggest that stocks rallied because investors believed Trump would lose and that they continued to rally because Trump didn't lose.
Bond yields have also been rising since Trump won, a phenomenon that many investors have attributed to the likelihood of stimulus from the president and Republican Congress.
Yet Golub points out that the yield on the 10-year U.S. Treasury was going up during the late summer as well.
Of course, many investors were expecting stimulus from Clinton too.
Yet once again, many investors are claiming that Trump is the catalyst for something that not only was going on before he was elected, but was happening because many thought he would lose.
 Stocks have avoided a 1% dive for an unusually long period of time
So it's odd that Trump is being cited as the main reason for a market rally that began months before anyone felt he could win.
What's really going on? The one constant during the past few months is the Federal Reserve.
Yes. the markets are reacting to Washington. But they are paying closer attention to Janet Yellen, not the White House.
The Fed made it crystal clear before the election that it would probably raise interest rates in December and do so a few more times in 2017 regardless of who won the race for president.
The good news for investors is that the U.S. economy seems to be growing steadily, but does not appear to be at risk of overheating.
 Here's why the world's largest money manager is worried
The most recent jobs report showed that wages grew at a decent rate of 2.5% annually. But that's not nearly high enough to spark fears of runaway inflation and lead the Fed to aggressively raise rates.
Even if Yellen and the Fed hike rates three times this year, they are likely to do so by just a quarter point every time. That would push the Fed's key short-term rate to a range of 1.25% to 1.5%.
That's still extremely low. At those levels, stocks would still be more attractive than bonds. Corporate earnings should be able to keep rising at a healthy clip. And consumers would probably keep spending.
So investors would be wise to keep a close eye on Yellen and not just have a myopic focus on the president,
With that in mind, Yellen is set to testify in front of Congress on Tuesday and Wednesday. And what she says about the timing and magnitude of future rate hikes could wind up keeping the rally going full steam ahead -- or stopping it dead in its tracks.
"I'm going to send a bill for the corn that we are buying in the Midwest and...change to Brazil or Argentina," Rios Piter, 43, told told CNN's Leyla Santiago on Sunday at an anti-Trump protest in Mexico City.
He added: It's a "good way to tell them that this hostile relationship has consequences, hope that it changes."
American corn goes into a lot of the country's food. In Mexico City, from fine dining restaurants to taco stands on the street, corn-based favorites like tacos can be found everywhere.
 Mexican farmer's daughter: NAFTA destroyed us
America is also the world's largest producer and exporter of corn. American corn shipments to Mexico have catapulted since NAFTA, a free trade deal signed between Mexico, America and Canada.
American farmers sent $2.4 billion of corn to Mexico in 2015, the most recent year of available data. In 1995, the year after NAFTA became law, corn exports to Mexico were a mere $391 million.
Experts say such a bill would be very costly to U.S. farmers.
"If we do indeed see a trade war where Mexico starts buying from Brazil...we're going to see it affect the corn market and ripple out to the rest of the ag economy," says Darin Newsom, senior analyst at DTN, an agricultural management firm.
Rios Piter's bill is another sign of Mexico's willingness to respond to Trump's threats. Trump wants to make Mexico pay for a wall on the border, and he's threatened taxes on Mexican imports ranging from 20% to 35%.
Trump also wants to renegotiate NAFTA. He blames it for a flood of manufacturing jobs to Mexico. A nonpartisan congressional research report found that not to be true.
 Mexico doubles down on Trump 'contingency plan'
Still, Trump says he wants a better trade deal for the American worker -- though he hasn't said what a better deal looks like.
All sides signaled two weeks ago that negotiations would begin in May after a 90-day consultation period.
But Trump says if negotiations don't bear the deal he wants, he threatens to withdraw from NAFTA.
Such tough talk isn't received well by Mexican leaders like Rios Piter. He's not alone. Mexico's economy minister, Ildefonso Guajardo, said in January Mexico would respond "immediately" to any tariffs from Trump.
"It's very clear that we have to be prepared to immediately be able to neutralize the impact of a measure of that nature," Guajardo said Jan. 13 on a Mexican news show.
--Shasta Darlington contributed reporting to this story
"In recent months, both T-Mobile and Sprint had some success taking additional share from Verizon by virtue of their unlimited offerings," wrote Morgan Stanley analysts in a report Monday morning.
That may explain why shares of T-Mobile and Sprint, which is now controlled by Japanese tech conglomerate SoftBank, are both up this year while Verizon is down. T-Mobile and Sprint have also been perennially linked as possible merger partners.
But the new telecom price war isn't the only problem for Verizon.
AT&T recently acquired satellite broadcast provider DirecTV, a move that makes Ma Bell more competitive against Verizon in the battle to control people's living rooms. Verizon offers its own FiOS broadband TV service.
 Verizon brings back unlimited data plans
And AT&T is also making a much bigger bet on content, with plans to purchase CNN's parent company Time Warner (TWX). Verizon already owns AOL and is looking to buy the core assets of Yahoo to bolster its own digital content offerings.
But the Yahoo (YHOO, Tech30) deal could fall apart in the wake of revelations of massive data breaches at Yahoo over the past few years.
Yahoo recently said it hopes that the deal with Verizon will close in the second quarter of this year. It was originally supposed to be finalized by the first quarter.
However, in its latest earnings release, Verizon simply said that it "continues to work with Yahoo to assess the impact of data breaches" -- not that it expected the deal to close anytime soon.
Verizon has a lot on its plate, which could be making investors nervous. In addition to the Yahoo deal, the company is also in the process of buying the fiber optic network of XO Communications. And it's selling its data center business to Equinix (EQIX).
There also have been rumors in the past few weeks that Verizon might even consider buying cable provider Charter Communications (CHTR).
That may be more than Verizon can realistically handle right now. But nothing may be off the table for Verizon given how competitive the wireless world is these days.
Anything that could give Verizon a leg up on AT&T, Sprint and T-Mobile might be possible.
 Charter shares popped on report of possible Verizon takeover
Still, it's worth noting that shares of AT&T are lower this year too, down about 5%. And Verizon and A&T have something in common that Sprint and T-Mobile lack -- Verizon and AT&T pay gigantic dividends.
Companies that have big dividend yields haven't fared as well since Donald Trump was elected. Investors are betting on a sizable stimulus package from him and the Republican Congress, which may be fueled in part by debt.
That's caused bond yields to rise -- and that makes shares of big dividend payers like Verizon a lot less attractive.
The Federal Reserve is expected to raise interest rates a few times this year too. That could push bond yields even higher.
So Verizon faces many big challenges that could hurt its stock this year.
That's why Verizon, nicknamed Big Red because of its logo's crimson hue, may see its stock in the red for the foreseeable future.
But the U.S.-Canada trade relationship over the years has not been as smooth as you might think. There have been trade wars, acts of retaliation, allegations of dumping and jobs lost.
"Our trading relationship obviously is strong...but the relationship has been rocky, despite the agreements we have in place," says Stuart Trew, an editor at the Canadian Centre for Policy Alternatives, a research group in Ottawa, Canada's capital.
Trump has often slammed Mexico and NAFTA, the trade agreement between the U.S., Mexico and Canada. But Canada is rarely mentioned.
Yet, there have been more NAFTA dispute claims against Canada -- almost all by U.S. companies -- than against Mexico. Even today, Canada has stiff tariffs against the United States and the two sides only recently resolved a bitter dispute over meat.
Most leaders and experts stress that trade ties between the two nations are strong and mostly positive. But Canada and America have had plenty of battles along the way.
Now Trump wants to renegotiate NAFTA, which will be on the top of the agenda for his meeting with Trudeau.
1. Canada gets in more NAFTA trouble than Mexico
Listening to Trump, you might think Mexico is the bad actor of NAFTA. But since NAFTA's inception in 1994, there have been 39 complaints brought against Canada, almost all by U.S. companies. Known in the industry as the investor state dispute settlements, it allows companies to resolve cases under a special panel of NAFTA judges instead of local courts in Mexico, Canada, or the U.S.
There's only been 23 complaints against Mexico. (By comparison, companies from both Mexico and Canada have filed a total of 21 complaints against the U.S.)
And increasingly, Canada is the target of American complaints. Since 2005, Canada has been hit with 70% of the NAFTA dispute claims, according to CCPA, a Canadian research firm.
2. The U.S. - Canada lumber battle
NAFTA isn't the only sore area. In 2002, the U.S. slapped a roughly 30% tariff on Canadian lumber, alleging that Canada was "dumping" its wood on the U.S. market. Canada rejected the claim and argued the tariff cost its lumber companies 30,000 jobs.
"It was a very sour point in Canadian - American relations for quite a while," says Tom Velk, an economics professor at McGill University in Montreal.
The dispute had its origins in the 1980s, when American lumber companies said their Canadian counterparts weren't playing fair.
Whether Canada actually broke the rules is a matter of dispute.
Canadian officials deny that the government is subsidizing softwood lumber companies in Canada. American lumber companies still allege that it does, and a U.S. Commerce Department report found that Canada was providing subsidies to lumber companies in 2004. It didn't say whether the subsidies were ongoing.
According to the allegations, Canada subsidized lumber companies because the government owns many of the lands where the wood comes from. That subsidy -- on top of Canada's huge lumber supply -- allowed Canada to price its lumber below what U.S. companies can charge.
The World Trade Organization ultimately sided with Canada, denying America's claim and the two sides came to an agreement in 2006 to end the tariff.
However, that agreement and its ensuing grace period expired in October, and the two sides are back at it again. The Obama and Trudeau administrations couldn't reach a compromise before Obama left office and it remains a contentious trade issue with U.S. lumber companies calling once again for tariffs.
 'Without NAFTA' we'd be out of business
3. Smoot-Hawley triggers U.S. - Canada trade war
Things got even worse during the Great Depression. In 1930, Congress wanted to protect U.S. jobs from global trade. So the U.S. slapped tariffs on all countries that shipped goods to America in an effort to shield workers.
It was called the Smoot-Hawley Act. Today, it is widely accepted that this law made the Great Depression worse than it was.
Canada was furious, and retaliated more than any other country against the U.S., sparking a trade war.
"Canada was so incensed that...they raised their own tariff on certain products to match the new U.S. tariff," according to Doug Irwin, a Dartmouth Professor and author of "Peddling Protectionism: Smoot-Hawley and the Great Depression."
For example, the U.S. increased a tariff on eggs from 8 cents to 10 cents (these are 1930s prices, after all). Canada retaliated by also increasing its tariff from 3 cents to 10 cents -- a threefold increase.
Exports dwindled sharply: in 1929, the U.S. exported nearly 920,000 eggs to Canada. Three years later, it only shipped about 14,000 eggs, according to Irwin.
 Remember Smoot-Hawley: America's last major trade war
4. Canada's sky high tariffs on U.S. eggs, poultry, milk
Fast forward to today. Smoot-Hawley is long gone, but Canada continues to charge steep tariffs on U.S. imports of eggs, chicken and milk.
For instance, some tariffs on eggs are as high as 238% per dozen, according to Canada's Agriculture Department. Some milk imports, depending on the fat content, are as high as 292%.
"They're so onerous that you can't bring it across. There's no American eggs in Quebec," says Velk.
According to Canada's Embassy in the U.S., reality is much different. Its officials say that despite some stiff tariffs, Canada is one of the top export markets for American milk, poultry and eggs.
The U.S. does have tariffs on some goods coming from all countries, but they are not nearly as high as Canada's.
Experts say these tariffs continue to irk some U.S. dairy and poultry farmers, some of whom are challenged to sell into the Canadian market. But they doubt much will change since the tariffs have been in place for decades now.
 Those Reagan tariffs Trump loves to talk about
5. COOLer heads and the future of NAFTA
Despite all these disputes, experts stress this trade relationship is still one of the best in the world.
In fact, the two countries are so interconnected now, when trade disputes erupt sometimes American companies will side with Canadian companies and against U.S. lawmakers.
For example, Canadian meat producers disputed a U.S. law that required them to label where the cattle was born, raised and slaughtered. Canadians said the law discriminated against its meat from being sold in the U.S. and took the case to the WTO.
The WTO sided with Canada, and last December, Congress repealed the country-of-origin-labeling law. American meat producers -- whose business is intertwined with Canada -- actually supported their counterparts in Canada, arguing the regulation was too burdensome.
As for Trump's proposal of tearing up NAFTA, many American and Canadian experts say that it's not worth it to renegotiate or end the agreement. The three countries that are part of the agreement are so enmeshed with each other that untangling all that integration would be detrimental to trade and economic growth.
--Editor's note: This story was originally published on August 11, 2016. We have since updated it.
"Timing seems to be good to really make a significant debut in this region starting in Dubai," Tesla (TSLA) CEO Elon Musk said at the World Government Summit in Dubai.
Tesla owners will have access to two existing supercharging stations in the UAE, and Telsa plans to open five more by the end of the year.
Despite sitting on huge oil and gas reserves, the UAE has ambitious plans to go green. Last month it said it will invest $163 billion to boost alternative energy use over the next three decades.
 Tesla reveals what it will charge for a charge
It's the latest in a series of expansion announcements for Tesla. Last week, Musk hinted that Tesla may soon come to India.
Musk has also teased plans to build "heavy-duty trucks and high passenger-density urban transport" as well developing a ride-hailing network, which could be similar to Uber.
Speaking in Dubai, the entrepreneur expounded on the future of robotics.
"We will see autonomy and artificial intelligence advance tremendously," Musk said. "In probably 10 years, it will be very unusual for cars to be built that are not fully autonomous."
 Elon Musk's surprising secret weapon: Trump?
But he also warned of the "disruptive" nature of autonomous vehicles.
"That disruption I'm talking about will take place over about 20 years. Still, 20 years is a short period of time to have something like 12% to 15% of the workforce be unemployed."
Musk said governments must pay close attention to artificial intelligence, create sustainable transport and be wary of mass unemployment.
"This will be a massive social challenge. Ultimately, we need to think about universal basic income. I don't think we have a choice," he said. "There will be fewer and fewer jobs that a robot cannot do better."
-- Seth Fiegerman contributed reporting.
The price collapse -- to levels not seen since 2003 -- was caused by months of growing oversupply, slowing demand from China and a decision by Western powers to lift Iran's nuclear sanctions.
Since then, the market has mounted a stunning turnaround, with crude prices doubling to trade at $53.50 per barrel.
Here's how major oil producers worked together to push prices higher:
OPEC deal
OPEC agreed major production cuts in November, hoping to tame the global oil oversupply and support prices.
The news of the deal immediately boosted prices by 9%.
Investors cheered even more after several non-OPEC producers, including Russia, Mexico and Kazakhstan, joined the effort to restrain supply.
Crucially, the deal has stuck. The OPEC report published Monday showed that its members have -- for the most part -- fulfilled their pledges to slash production. The International Energy Agency agrees: It estimated OPEC compliance for January at 90%.
UAE energy minister Suhail Al Mazrouei told CNNMoney on Monday that the results were even better than he had expected.
The production cuts total 1.8 million barrels per day and are scheduled to run for six months.
 OPEC has pulled off one of its 'deepest' production cuts

Investors upbeat
The OPEC deal took months to negotiate, and investors really, really like it. The number of hedge funds and other institutional investors that are betting on higher prices hit a record in January, according to OPEC.
The widespread optimism is helping to fuel price increases.
Higher demand
The latest data from OPEC and the IEA show that global demand for oil was higher than expected in 2016, thanks to stronger economic growth, higher vehicle sales and colder than expected weather in the final quarter of the year.
Demand is set to grow further in 2017 to an average of 95.8 million barrels a day, compared 94.6 million barrels per day in 2016.
The IEA said that if OPEC sticks to its agreement, the global oil glut that has plagued markets for three years will finally disappear in 2017.
Saudi oil minister: I don't lose sleep over shale
What's next?
Despite the stunning growth, analysts caution that prices may not go much higher.
That's because higher oil prices are likely to lure American shale producers back into the market. The total number of active oil rigs in the U.S. stood at 591 last week, according to data from Baker Hughes. That's 152 more than a year ago.
U.S. crude stockpiles swelled in January to nearly 200 million barrels above their five-year average, according to the OPEC report.
"This vast increase in inventories is a result of a strong supply response from the U.S. shale producers, who were not involved in the OPEC agreement and who have instead been using the resultant price rally to increase output," said Fiona Cincotta, an analyst at City Index.
More supply could once again put OPEC under pressure.
#1: The individual health insurance market is collapsing.
--House Speaker Paul Ryan said on "Meet the Press" earlier this month that "the law is literally in the middle of a collapse."
--Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell on the Senate floor said in January: "Obamacare continues to unravel at every level, leaving Americans to pick up the pieces."
Republicans are right that the individual market -- that the Affordable Care Act sought to overhaul -- is having challenges right now. Many insurance companies left the exchanges at the end of 2016 after losing money, which reduced choices for individuals. Five states have only a single insurer providing coverage in 2017.
But even with these challenges, the health law's exchanges are providing coverage to more than 10 million Americans. Some analysts say they are far from collapse.
"I have never believed the individual market was in a true death spiral," said Joe Antos of the conservative American Enterprise Institute. A death spiral is when so many healthy people leave a market that only sick people are left and insurers cannot spread costs.
 Obamacare sign ups sag under Trump administration
Insurance markets also vary a lot by state, said John Ayanian, head of the University of Michigan's Institute for Healthcare Policy and Innovation.
"There are a fair number of states where the exchanges are working fairly well, costs are not rising too quickly, and people have a number of choices of health plans," he said. "There are other states where they have just one choice and prices are going up."
At the same time, legislation written by Republicans has led to some of the trouble in exchanges. Most directly, Congress limited federal payouts to insurers who encountered higher-than-expected costs in the exchanges. Republicans called the payments "insurance company bailouts," even though similar federal measures have been used in other markets, such as the Medicare drug plans implemented more than a decade ago.
Still, the result was that the Department of Health and Human Services was able to provide insurers with only 13% of the money they were promised under the law in 2015. That shortfall led directly to the implosion of most of the nonprofit co-op health plans, and some private insurers referenced the shortfalls when they pulled out of the marketplaces this year.
Yet when House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Greg Walden noted at a Feb. 2 hearing that "only five out of the original 23 insurance co-ops remain. ... They tried it, it didn't work," he did not mention the loss of the federal payments to cover early losses.
#2: Out-of-pocket spending is too high.
--Ryan said at a CNN Town Hall last month: "Deductibles are so high it doesn't even feel like you've got insurance anymore."
--McConnell wrote in a CNN op-ed last year that Obamacare is "raising health care costs by previously unimaginable levels, and it's hurting the very people it was intended to help."
Out-of-pocket spending is one of voters' top concerns when it comes to health care. The January 2017 monthly tracking poll from the Kaiser Family Foundation found 67% of those polled said their top health priority is "lowering the amount individuals pay for health care," followed closely by "lowering the cost of prescription drugs" at 61%.
High deductibles -- often in the thousands of dollars -- have become part of that problem.
Insurers to Congress: Stabilize Obamacare in next 30 days
People who are most angry about the Affordable Care Act, said Chris Jennings, a health official in the Clinton and Obama administrations, "want deductibles lower and more benefits."
But Republicans' most popular proposals for replacing current individual insurance plans -- cutting back on required benefits and giving more people access to tax-preferred health savings accounts -- would likely increase out-of-pocket spending for those who use health services. However, it would be less expensive for people who are healthy all year long.
Letting people buy more bare bones policies "means insurance doesn't kick in until people have very significant medical bills," said Ayanian.
 HSAs: Big tax break or gimmick to benefit the wealthy?
Speaking at the National Health Policy Conference last month, former Obama administration health official Sherry Glied asked if having a $10,000 or $20,000 deductible with perhaps $1,000 in a health savings account "is better than having no coverage at all? Lots of people would go bankrupt at $20,000," particularly if they don't have the resources to fund the HSA with their own savings.
#3: Medicaid patients can't find doctors to treat them.
--Senator Bill Cassidy said on the Senate floor in January: "It is the illusion of coverage without the power of access."
--In the CNN Town Hall, Ryan asked "...so our concern is, that people on Medicaid can't get a doctor and if you can't get a doctor, what good is your coverage?"
Studies do suggest that low pay -- each state sets its own rates -- does decrease physician participation in Medicaid, and finding specialty care can be difficult in some parts of the country. But overall the academic literature shows that Medicaid patients have a far easier time and are far more likely to obtain health care services than people with no insurance.
The skinny on block grants -- the heart of the GOP's Medicaid plan
Benjamin Sommers of the Harvard School of Public Health, who has studied the issue, said the idea that patients with Medicaid can't get care comes from looking overall at how many doctors and other providers accept the program's generally lower payments and higher administrative burdens. "But that's not the best way to study this. The best question ... is when you talk to the people with coverage and ask them if they can get the care they need."
And he said "study after study" shows that "when people get Medicaid, their access to care improves dramatically," including greater use of primary care, preventive screening, and care of chronic conditions. "Even with some potential limitations of provider participation, patients are much better off once they get that [Medicaid] coverage," he said.
#4 The ACA has reduced jobs.
--Health Secretary Tom Price said during a Senate confirmation hearing last month that "The ACA has decreased the workforce by the equivalent of 2 million FTE's (full time employees)."
--Senate Health Committee Chairman Lamar Alexander said on the Senate floor in January: "Across the country ... employers have cut jobs to afford Obamacare costs."
Much of this talking point stems from a report by the Congressional Budget Office in 2014 that projected the nation's workforce would drop by about 2 million jobs due to the health law, as well as anecdotal reports about employers cutting workers hours to avoid triggering the law's requirement that they offer health insurance.
 Trump's new health secretary already planning changes to Obamacare
But a careful reading of the CBO report notes that the decline they estimate would be due less to employers cutting back, and more to older workers voluntarily opting to work fewer hours. This is perhaps because they fear losing their premium subsidies or their Medicaid eligibility or they've retired because they no longer had to work in order to get health insurance.
It is true that some employers cut worker hours below the 30-hour threshold to avoid the employer coverage requirement.
However, the strengthening economy, including in the health care sector, has shrunk the part-time workforce and expanded full-time employment well beyond the numbers reduced by the Affordable Care Act, according to most analysts. In fact, so many jobs have been created in the industry since the ACA became law that it is becoming a problem itself, because having such a vast chunk of the economy devoted to health care makes it harder to reduce health spending.
Kaiser Health News is national health policy news service that is part of the nonpartisan Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation.
U.S. stock futures were inching up on Monday and could be on track for new all-time highs.
Most European and Asian markets were also positive.
2. OPEC oil report: Investors will be watching to see if OPEC cut crude production in January.
OPEC and other major producers agreed to slash oil production late last year and it looks like they're sticking to the plan. Last week, the International Energy Agency announced the cartel was 90% in compliance.
OPEC will release its own report on Monday.
The agreement to cut production has helped boost crude prices. Crude oil futures are currently trading around $53.50 per barrel, more than double their lowest level of 2016.
Before the Bell newsletter: Key market news. In your inbox. Subscribe now!
3. Vote for Trump's money man: The U.S. Senate is scheduled to vote Monday on whether to confirm Steven Mnuchin as President Trump's treasury secretary.
Mnuchin, whose resume includes time as a Goldman Sachs (GS) banker and a Hollywood film producer, has faced pushback from Democrats throughout the confirmation process.
They've raised questions about his financial dealings and his time as CEO of OneWest Bank, which has been accused of lending discrimination and unfair foreclosure practices.
4. Stocks to watch: Shares in Toshiba (TOSYY) advanced on reports that it will reveal on Tuesday the extent of losses related to its takeover of a nuclear business in 2015.
The Japanese firm had originally said in December that it was expecting billion of dollars in losses, which caused shares to tank and lose more than half their value. The 5% rally on Monday is small compared to losses over the past two months.
Shares in Restaurant Brands International (QSR) are set to be in the spotlight as the company reports earnings ahead of the open. The company owns Burger King and the Canadian coffee chain, Tim Hortons.
Download CNN MoneyStream for up-to-the-minute market data and news
5. Coming this week:
Monday - OPEC oil report Tuesday - Janet Yellen testifies before Congress; T-Mobile (TMUS) earnings Wednesday - Cisco (CSCO, Tech30), PepsiCo (PEP), TripAdvisor (TRIP) and Kraft Heinz (KHC) earnings Thursday - Labor secretary nominee Andrew Puzder has his Senate confirmation hearing; Wendy's (WEN) earnings Friday - Campbell Soup (CPB) and Deere (DE) earnings; Wells Fargo (WFC) CEO expected to answer Senate's letter about its latest controversies
Hanover told the news organization that items in the Trump Home line of furnishings were removed from the company's website, although they could still be purchased through third-party vendors online. Neither store carried the items in their physical stores, he said.
Searches of the Sears and KMart websites did not turn up Trump Home products, except for those sold by third-party vendors.
In a statement Monday, spokesman Chris Brathwaite distanced Sears from any political controversy and reiterated that many Trump-branded products are still available through third-party sellers.
"In this case, certain products were removed from our websites that included a very small number of Trump products," he said. "The headlines do not do justice to our business or this specific brand of products that we offer through our marketplace sellers."
Brathwaite added that the company prefers to focus on its business and "leave the politics to others."
 Is Ivanka Trump's brand losing its bling?
The move makes Sears the latest to ditch products bearing the Trump name.
Earlier this month, Nordstrom (JWN) cited brand "performance," not politics, as the reason why it decided to stop carrying Ivanka Trump's clothing and accessories label.
President Trump knocked the department store on Twitter in retaliation. Nordstrom stock jumped 7% in the first two days following the tweet.
My daughter Ivanka has been treated so unfairly by @Nordstrom. She is a great person -- always pushing me to do the right thing! Terrible!

Other stores have also sought to distance themselves from Ivanka Trump's brand.
Neiman Marcus removed the brand landing page from its website, and declined to tell CNNMoney whether it intended to keep Ivanka Trump products in stores or resume online sales in the future.
TJX Companies (TJX), the company that owns TJ Maxx and Marshalls, also said that it had recently told workers not to highlight the first daughter's brand in stores.
And retailer Belk said last week that it planned to pull Ivanka Trump's products from its website, but would continue to offer the line in its flagship stores.
Ivanka Trump's clothing and accessories line has taken a hit in recent months.
Online sales of her brand dipped 26% in January compared to a year earlier, according to Slice Intelligence, a retail analysis firm. Slice studied the brand's sales on five online stores: Nordstrom, Amazon, Zappos, Macy's and Bloomingdale's.
Online sales of Ivanka's brand had surged in late 2015, and last month's numbers appear to be more of a "return to reality," according to Taylor Stanton, Slice's marketing and communications manager. The brand's dip in performance was abnormal in light of an uptick in 2016 online sales in the apparel and accessories category, said Jack Beckwythe, a Slice analyst.
 Kellyanne Conway unrepentant for Ivanka Trump plug
The Ivanka Trump brand has defended its performance.
Rosemary Young, senior director of marketing at Ivanka Trump, told CNNMoney last week that the brand was growing and experienced "significant year-over-year revenue growth in 2016."
"We believe that the strength of a brand is measured not only by the profits it generates, but the integrity it maintains," Young said.
Retailers like Bloomingdale's, Amazon (AMZN, Tech30), Lord & Taylor, Macy's (M) and Zappos all still carry Ivanka Trump products.
Ivanka Trump has taken a leave of absence from her namesake company since her father won the presidency. She has no formal role in the administration but is expected to have a voice on issues such as women's empowerment and child care.
--CNNMoney's Jackie Wattles contributed to this story.
Actor Michael B. Jordan voices the film, and singer Alicia Keys performs a rendition of Sam Cooke's "A Change is Gonna Come."
If we can be equals in sport, we can be equals everywhere. #EQUALITY pic.twitter.com/ki5NaJN12d

"Is this the land history promised?" Jordan says. "Here, within these lines, on this concrete court, this patch of turf, here, you're defined by your actions -- not your looks or beliefs."
Nike will feature ads from the campaign on social media, billboards and posters throughout cities in the United States and Canada. It will also sell "Equality" branded T-shirts and shoes as part of its annual Black History Month collection.
Apparel from the campaign will be worn by Nike athletes during NBA All-Star weekend.
Nike said it is donating $5 million this year to organizations like MENTOR and PeacePlayers, which it says "advance equality in communities" across the country.
 Pro-Trump boycott calls follow Super Bowl ads
Nike's new campaign comes one week after numerous companies launched ads about inclusion and acceptance during the Super Bowl.
Budweiser, 84 Lumber, Coca-Cola (COKE), Airbnb, Kia and Tiffany (TIF) were among the brands that features messages about immigration, equality and environmentalism.
-- CNNMoney's Ahiza Garcia contributed to this story.
As labor secretary, Puzder would oversee federal workplace safety and wage laws. But his employees say he's unfit for the job because he allegedly stole their wages and forced them to work long hours without overtime pay. Puzder is a vocal critic of a minimum wage hike, government regulation and overtime pay.
 Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer calls on Puzder to withdraw nomination
2. Janet Yellen testifies before Congress: Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen will head to Capitol Hill on Tuesday to deliver a speech on monetary policy. The semi-annual report will be Yellen's first appearance before Congress since the Fed raised interest rates in December.
Ever since the 2008 recession, the Federal Reserve's approach to rate hikes has been, well, reserved. Officials left rates unchanged last month, saying in a statement that with "gradual adjustments in the stance of monetary policy, economic activity will expand at a moderate pace."
Yellen predicts there will be three rate hikes in 2017. If the Fed were to raise them faster, as Trump's policies might force it to, millions of Americans applying for loans and mortgages could be affected.
 Will Fed rate hikes come back to haunt Trump?
3. Big Food and Tech earnings: Cisco (CSCO, Tech30), Pepsico (PEP) and T-Mobile (TMUS) are among a few of the companies releasing quarterly reports this week.
Pepsi's rival Coca-Cola (CCE) announced disappointing earnings last week, as its new low-calorie drink offerings failed to offset Coke's struggles overseas.
4. OPEC oil report: Investors will be curious to see if OPEC is meeting its output goals when it reports on Monday.
OPEC and non-OPEC producers agreed to slash oil production by 1.8 million barrels per day. So far they're sticking to that plan. Last week, the International Energy Agency announced it was 90% in compliance. That's big news, given OPEC has failed to meet such goals in the past.
OPEC said last week that if producers continue to abide by the output policy, production cuts could extend to the end of 2017.
 OPEC has pulled off one of its 'deepest' production cuts
5. Coming this week:
Monday - OPEC oil report
Tuesday - Janet Yellen testifies before Congress; T-Mobile (TMUS) earnings; Senate issues final vote on Steven Mnuchin for Treasury Secretary
Wednesday - Cisco (CSCO, Tech30), PepsiCo (PEP), Trip Advisor (TRIP) and Kraft Heinz (KHC) earnings
Thursday - Andrew Puzder's Senate confirmation hearing; Wendy's (WEN) earnings; Center for Medicaid and Medicare Services hearing
Friday - Wells Fargo (WFC) CEO expected to answer Senate's letter about its latest controversies
The move would yank tens of millions of dollars that the event usually brings to the state's economy.
The boycott started when Utah Governor Gary Herbert signed a resolution last week asking the Trump administration to abolish the Bear Ears National Monument -- more than a million acres in southwestern Utah that Obama designated a national monument in the weeks before he left office.
In response to Herbert's request, outdoor retailer Patagonia vowed not to attend this year's Outdoor Retailer marketplace, which is scheduled to kick off July 26.
Also, on Wednesday, the Utah legislature approved a similar motion that aims to downsize the state's Grand Staircase-Escalante National Monument.
The Outdoor Industry Association said Monday that Outdoor Retailer is looking to relocate its future showcases because of concerns about Utah's land preservation policies.
 Trump admin tells National Park Service to halt tweets
"We've been listening to the concerns from the industry and agree that it's time to explore our options," Outdoor Retailer show director Marisa Nicholson said in a statement from OIA.
But it's too late to move this year's show because Outdoor Retailer's contract with Salt Lake lasts until November of 2018. But a slew of other companies have decided to join Patagonia in boycotting.
San Francisco-based retailer Peak Design said it would refuse to attend "the most important event in the outdoor industry" because Utah is "doing its damndest" to undo President Obama's executive order that protected Bear Ears and allow oil and gas companies to go digging for profit.
"Like oil and gas, the outdoor industry has a voice too," Peak CEO Peter Dering wrote in a blog post. "But it's rare that there's an opportunity to use it effectively to create change."
Dear @GovHerbert, we're joining @Patagonia in their boycott of #OutdoorRetailer, and here's why. #protectbearsears https://t.co/vZxKSbWk2G

 National parks can hire for summer, despite Trump freeze
Arc'teryx, a Canadian retailer, also joined the boycott and vowed to donate all of the money it would have spent attending the Outdoor Retailer marketplace to the Public Lands Defense Fund.
Let's join forces to protect public lands & wild spaces. We have decided to withdraw from Outdoor Retailer: https://t.co/B6BYQcGv5q pic.twitter.com/HtLggOxLL0

Among the other companies refusing to attend are Salt Lake City-based portable lighting company Power Practical, textile maker Polartec, Denver-based raft maker Kokopelli Packraft and shoe company Bedrock Sandals.
However, Outdoor Retailer insists the number of companies that have voiced support for attending the event have far outweighed those who plan to stay away.
"We respect that brands have to make decisions that reflect their values. However, in the last 48 hours, the expression of support for the show from exhibitors, large, medium and small, have far outweighed those choosing not to participate," Outdoor Retailer show director Marisa Nicholson said in a statement.
 Celebrate National Parks' 100th birthday by joining Obama on a (virtual) tour of Yosemite
The statement added that leading brands such as Adidas Outdoor, The North Face and REI among many others "have not only reinforced their intent to come to SLC this summer, but also, to make their voices louder than ever before."
CEO Jerry Stritzke of REI, an outdoor sporting goods retailer, wrote a letter to industry leaders saying he's "mad as hell and disappointed" at the actions taken by Utah's governor and legislature and he supports OIA's decision to relocate -- but he argued that skipping the event would be a setback.
"I believe it would be a mistake for us not to gather as an industry this July. Now more than ever, we need to act together to advocate and find a common voice to protect our most important asset — our public lands," Stritzke wrote.
The 12 companies that form OIA's board of directors plus North Face have sent letters encouraging people in the industry to attend.
Word of the protests and Outdoor Retailer's plans to move has reached the statehouse. Governor Herbert said on Twitter Friday that he plans to meet with outdoor industry executives on the issue.
Utah is the place for outdoor enthusiasts. Next week, I'll meet with outdoor industry execs & I'm optimistic we will come together. #utpol

"Utah is the place for outdoor enthusiasts. Next week, I'll meet with outdoor industry execs & I'm optimistic we will come together," he wrote.
The airline turned to Canadian entrepreneur Tyler Brule for a complete makeover for the airline; new colors for its jets and new uniforms for its employees as part of the country's 150th anniversary.
Black is a rare color for aviation, mainly because it, along with red, are the heaviest colors of paint. Weight conscious airlines don't want to add to the already hundreds of pounds of paint that goes into branding an airplane.
The only other large airline today with a mostly-black scheme is Air New Zealand, which was initially inspired by its All Blacks rugby team. Back in the 1970s, Hugh Hefner's Playboy DC-9 wore all black with its tricked-out VIP interior.
The new colors put the airline in alignment with at least one other national icon, said Canadian aviation journalist Howard Slutsken: The country's national hockey team, which for decades has worn a red, black and white jersey.
The airline said the new colors reflect "Canada's vastness and contrasting seasons, with references to its wildlife and First Nations heritage."
Many were applauding the new look.
@AirCanada Very, very cool and Canadian. Is that a loon in the sky I see? #aircanada #boeing787

@AirCanada It makes me think of a tuxedo with a red tie. I love it. #classy
Others were less impressed.
Congrats to @AirCanada who somehow found a way to make their new livery even more boring than their previous ones. https://t.co/RLcw8w73Wd pic.twitter.com/UyWAyqgf1x

@AirCanada Dull, safe, and why the black tail and engines? Nothing Canadian about that colour choice. And it needs a cheatline.

Boring, uninspired, generic livery. @AirCanada hired a great designer & wasted the opportunity. https://t.co/ZEarNVqHNK
The Canadian flag carrier leaves behind its last set of new colors, which debuted in 2004. That makeover, mint blue-green and red maple leaf, reminded many of a tube of toothpaste and similarly inspired a love it or hate it reaction.
Will miss the toothpaste green but this looks sharp! Tail looks similar to the old old one, but love the mask! #AirCanada #AvGeek https://t.co/ZUMelOykrB

@jonostrower I seem to remember a similar backlash when they came out with the toothpaste livery #ILikeIt #aircanada
Air Canada, has evoked strong reactions with its paint job. The black mask coming to its jets inspire resemblance to Canadian geese, but some saw it differently.
My fav part of @AirCanada new livery? the blacked around the cockpit windows giving it that aggressive look!

@jonostrower @YouTube Needs a Knight Rider/Battlestar Cylon light tracer going back and forth across it.

#AirCanada's new livery looks nice! The black mask on the flight deck windows remind me of raccoons. But wait, shouldn't that be #Porter's?
For others, it reminded them of an airline south of the border.
.@Delta or @AirCanadaWho wore it better? #avgeek #aviation pic.twitter.com/QjljRijXku

Don't like it? A day later, some are saying it give time.
Wasn't much of a fan of the new #AirCanada livery when it first debuted, but it's grown on me.

"At a time when the world is watching, our industry affords us a unique opportunity to show firsthand what true compassion and kindness look like. Treating each other with respect and dignity does not belong to a political party and transcends any law," Parker wrote.
Oscar Munoz, United's CEO, wrote to his employees Monday, "Whatever may divide us as individuals is far, far outweighed by all that unites us as a people."
But neither corporate leader went so far as to declare its opposition to the policy.
"However, it is the current law of the U.S. And so long as that is the case," wrote Parker. "We must comply."
 20,000 people called us about Trump's travel ban. Hear their voices
Behind the scenes, U.S. airlines, like many businesses, are petrified of running afoul of the president for fear of bringing a financial and public relations maelstrom if mentioned in a tweet. Some airlines, said one official, have even done crisis communications planning in the event they are mentioned in a Trump tweet.
Delta Air Lines felt the sting of a presidential tweet early Monday when its computers failed Sunday evening, canceling hundreds of flights. Trump on Monday blamed the IT system failure at Delta for the chaos at U.S. airports, which were roiled by protesters and confusion over his executive order.
Airline officials also feel that taking a political position risks alienating millions of Americans.
Unlike their counterparts in other industries, airlines are heavily regulated and dependent on the federal government for everything from international route approvals to numerous contracts ranging from flying the mail to government travel.
"Airlines tend to be more politically conservative organizations. If they speak out against something today, they may find them selves without government support for something they need tomorrow," said Henry Harteveldt, founder of the Atmosphere Research Group.
The presidential order, signed late Friday, left airlines in the U.S. and abroad scrambling to adapt. They first sought to understand how to implement the decree and spent the weekend discussing if, and how, they might oppose the policy, according to multiple interviews with aviation industry officials.
 Trump's immigration ban triggers panic at universities
The longer-term concern among industry experts and airline officials is the executive order may expand in scope. White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer said at an event at George Washington University Monday of the countries affected by the ban, "Maybe we will expand those."
U.S. carriers don't fly to any of the seven affected countries, nor do the airlines of those countries fly to the U.S. But those citizens travel on an array of U.S. or international airlines and transiting through cities like London, Frankfurt, Dubai, Istanbul and Paris where they frequently transfer to a U.S. airline.
Customs and Border Patrol told airlines over the weekend the executive order would affect roughly 200 fliers to the U.S. each day.
Airlines today have little room to maneuver.
"The consequences are very real around" refusing to comply with the order, said one airline official and the carriers risk fines for noncompliance. Compliance would require the airlines to prevent persons from the seven countries -- Iraq, Iran, Syria, Libya, Somalia, Yemen and Sudan -- in Trump's order from boarding their planes in a foreign country.
"Airlines are being quiet now because it has a very limited direct impact on them," said Harteveldt. "There are lines that could be crossed that have serious commercial implications and they may try to speak up or use back channels."
"In spite of the best intentions of Washington and industry, the intended goals of the ACA have not been achieved," he said. "Millions of Americans remain uninsured and still lack access to affordable healthcare."
 Obamacare: Where we go from here
And things will only get worse "in the absence of a significant shift in regulatory policy," added Bertolini. But the Aetna (AET) CEO is hopeful that President Trump and Congressional Republicans' efforts to replace the Affordable Care Act will improve the situation.
"We remain optimistic that the next wave of healthcare reform will focus on affordability, quality and addressing the needs of the millions of Americans who remain uninsured or lack access to affordable healthcare," Bertolini said. "To that end, we continue to actively engage in constructive dialogue with lawmakers and regulators and are committed to working towards preserving the positive aspects of the ACA and developing consumer-based approaches that deliver access to affordable quality healthcare to all Americans."
Insurers are taking a low profile as the battle to dismantle Obamacare has raged on Capitol Hill. Republicans have taken the first steps to repeal major provisions of the health reform law, but remain divided on how to replace it.
However, carriers have been working behind the scenes, pressing lawmakers to come up with a clearer vision for overhauling Obamacare. Otherwise, some said they'll be reluctant to participate next year, which could prompt others to withdraw or to hike premiums.
 Insurers warn: We're outta here with no Obamacare replacement plan
Aetna sent a shock wave through the industry last summer when it said it was pulling out of 11 of the 15 states where it was operating, citing mounting losses.
Its decision to exit certain markets raised eyebrows because it came soon after the Department of Justice announced it would oppose the insurer's merger with Humana. In January, a federal judge blocked the deal on anti-competitive concerns, but also said that Aetna's real motivation for dropping Obamacare coverage in several states was "specifically to evade judicial scrutiny" over the merger.
Aetna's move followed UnitedHealthcare (UNH)'s announcement that it will pull out of most of the exchanges by 2017. The exit of these and other insurers has left 21% of enrollees with only one choice of carrier for 2017, which the Republicans often cite as a sign of Obamacare's failure.
 Aetna to pull out of most Obamacare exchanges
Aetna said Tuesday that it is still expecting to lose money on the exchanges this year, but the figure will be lower than last year. It projects enrollment in the individual market to shrink from 965,000 members at the end of 2016 to 240,000 in the first quarter of this year, with roughly 190,000 of those being on the Obamacare exchanges.
With things still in flux in Washington D.C., Bertolini said "there is no possible way" the insurer will be able to set plans and prices for entering new markets by April, when it has to start submitting policies to state insurance regulators. It will also determine whether to continue offering plans in its current footprint by then.
For future CEOs, here are the CliffsNotes on how to pass a White House jobs summit with Trump, who says he will be "the greatest jobs president" of all time.
Start with stating: 1) How many employees you have in the United States 2) That you're hiring in America or 3) You have a long history in the United States
"We've been in this country for 125 years. We employ about 23,000 Americans," Kenneth Frazier, CEO of Merck (MRK), told Trump, enunciating the "23,000" part. "We have tremendous numbers of high-paying, high skill jobs."
"Our global headquarters is up near Boston...[we] employ about 20,000," emphasized Joseph Jimenez, CEO of Novartis (NVS). (Novartis is actually headquartered in Switzerland. The company clarified that the CEO was referring to its research headquarters here)
"140 years we've been in Indiana and in Indianapolis, and that's where we still make a lot of our products," David Ricks, CEO of Eli Lilly (LLY), told Trump.
I'm "representing a company that employs directly about 50,000 people in the U.S.," Joaquin Duato, chairman of pharmaceuticals giant Johnson & Johnson (JNJ), said as cameras clicked.
Second, drop in the word "manufacturing."
"We're hiring manufacturing jobs as I speak," Ricks of Eli Lilly, stressed to the president.
"We have about 13 manufacturing sites here in the U.S.," Jimenez noted at the conference table.
Of Johnson & Johnson's 50,000 American employees, "most of them [are] in manufacturing," Duato said.
Third, sprinkle in stuff that business leaders really want Trump to do: Cut taxes and regulations.
"One of things that can help us is a lower tax rate," Jimenez of Novartis said.
"We're just delighted to be here this morning to talk about reducing regulation, lowering taxes," Steve Ubl, CEO of PhRMA, told the president.
"Tax and deregulation -- those are things that could really help us expand operations," Ricks concluded.
Just remember that no matter what, Trump may talk of things you might not want to hear.
"The pricing (of drugs) has been astronomical for our country...we have to get the prices down," Trump said at the start of the meeting.
We digress. Back to the CliffsNotes.
Fourth, throw in cool buzzwords like "innovation" and "R&D" for research and development.
"We're confident about the outlook for innovation in this country," Robert Bradway, CEO of Amgen (AMGN), told Trump.
We have "one of the biggest investments in R&D," Duanto said.
"The industry invests about $70 billion in R&D in the United States, which is more than any other industry," Ubl of PhRMA added.
Fifth: The icing on the cake -- We're bringing jobs back!
"I'm proud to say we'll be adding 1,600 jobs at Amgen this year," Bradway noted.
"In fact, we're bringing manufacturing back for our cancer drug, you may have heard..." Frazier of Merck said.
Trump responded "that's very good," then shook Frazier's hand.
But here's the problem: The changes Republicans are considering could add trillions to the debt. And paying for all of them will be a major challenge, if not practically impossible, say some fiscal experts.
As it is, U.S. debt is already projected to grow by roughly $9.4 trillion in the next decade, according to the Congressional Budget Office.
Here's the GOP to-do list:
Build a wall: $12 billion to $25 billion
Republican leaders estimate the wall that Trump wants built along the U.S.-Mexican border will cost $12 billion to $15 billion. But outside experts believe it could be as high as $25 billion.
Trump, of course, has said repeatedly he would make Mexico pay for it. But Mexico isn't keen on that. So unless and until that happens, Congress will have to authorize money to build the wall.
Normally, Republicans demand that new spending be offset with spending cuts elsewhere. But Ryan indicated in a Politico interview last week that lawmakers will authorize a supplemental request from the White House -- i.e., "emergency spending," which doesn't have to be offset under legislative rules.
Democrats, however, have already indicated they will try to block that funding in the Senate.
Partially repeal, then replace Obamacare: Full cost unknown.
It's difficult to put a price tag on repeal-and-replace.
First, the current assumption is that lawmakers will repeal Obamacare partially: Get rid of the taxes and mandates immediately, then delay the repeal of the Medicaid expansion and insurance subsidies by up to two years. The estimated savings would be $550 billion over a decade, according to the Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget. (Full repeal, by contrast, would increase deficits by between $150 billion and $350 billion.)
Second, Republicans have yet to propose a replacement plan. That plan will cost money, wiping out any savings from partial repeal and very likely adding to deficits if it provides the coverage accessibility and affordability that Republicans say it will.
Reform the tax code: $3 trillion to $7 trillion over a decade
The reduction in revenue might hew closer to $3 trillion over a decade if lawmakers stick with House Republicans' proposal, according to estimates from the Tax Policy Center. But if they follow Trump's proposal, the price tag could double.
One reason why the House Republicans' tax reform blueprint would cost less is because they would change how imports and exports are taxed. The measure is estimated to raise more than $1 trillion.
But it's not clear if Trump will sign on to that change.
Both Trump and House Republicans, meanwhile, believe their changes would generate economic growth to replace at least some of the revenue loss from any tax cuts.
Invest in infrastructure: $200 billion to $1 trillion over a decade
Here the cost to federal coffers will depend on whether lawmakers choose to rely on direct spending of revenue as well as borrowing; or if they choose to raise money for public/private partnerships.
Increase defense spending: $100 billion to $430 billion over 5 years
Many Republicans want to increase defense spending above the current budget caps in place.
Fiscal conservatives might only want to raise it by $100 billion over 5 years, while major defense hawks -- like Sen. John McCain -- may push for increases north of $400 billion, according to Katherine Blakeley, research fellow at the Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessment.
That range doesn't include any "emergency" money for overseas contingency operations that Congress often approves. Such spending doesn't have to be paid for.
Trump indicated that more defense spending is a priority, budget concerns aside.
"I want a balanced budget eventually. But I want to have a strong military. To me, that's much more important than anything," Trump said on Fox News' "Hannity" last week.
Paying for it all
So how will Trump and Republicans do everything they want without increasing deficits, let alone balance the budget in a decade?
For starters, they're opposed to increasing tax revenue, except through economic growth. While growth is helpful, it's not sufficient.
Second, most spending growth in the future will be in so-called mandatory spending -- that is, spending on Medicare, Medicaid, Social Security and interest on the debt. Trump has said he doesn't want to touch Social Security and Medicare at all. And Republicans who want entitlement reform don't want to affect current retirees' benefits. So that pretty much rules out much in savings in the first decade.
Third, the administration and Republicans talk a lot about cutting "discretionary" domestic programs -- which constitute the smallest part of the federal budget and are not primary drivers of debt.
Lastly, there's Trump himself, who says he's more concerned with boosting the economy for now.
"So a balanced budget is fine. But sometimes, you have to fuel the well in order to really get the economy going. And we have to take care of our military," he told Fox.
Factors like these convince Democratic budget expert Stan Collender that "if you're going to be surprised on deficits, it'll be on the high side."
"You're an inherited money dude from Queens County. Bring it, Donald."
Scaramucci is singing a different tune these days. He was recently tapped to be a White House liaison with the business world.
It's a position that fits Scaramucci like a glove, given his reputation as one of the Street's top schmoozers. Each year, he hosts a conference and extravagant party in Las Vegas for hedge funds called SALT, which has been attended by the likes of Will Smith, Bill Clinton, Kobe Bryant and Al Pacino.
Scaramucci is a charmer who has a knack for turning adversity into opportunity -- he was once fired and rehired from Goldman Sachs in the same year. And last year, once his preferred presidential candidates Scott Walker and Jeb Bush dropped out, Scaramucci threw his support behind Trump. That bet obviously paid off in spades.
As a liaison between President Trump and the business world, Scaramucci will have to tap lean on his social skills, especially since he has a boss who frequently targets companies and executives on Twitter. Scaramucci is already doing some of that -- he recently told an elite crowd at Davos that people need to stop freaking out over Trump's every comment.
 Trump on Dow 20K: 'Now we have to go up, up, up'
Having some fun in the Transiton office with America's Mayor loving the @WSJ front page on @realDonaldTrump pic.twitter.com/DDpwbmxKwm
Wall Street is hoping Scaramucci, better known as "The Mooch," will be a moderating influence against the more extreme forces that have led Trump to stake out positions that make investors uncomfortable.
Not only does Scaramucci have a Goldman Sach  (GS)pedigree, but the hedge fund executive has described himself as an "unapologetic defender of Wall Street."
Scaramucci even co-hosted Wall Street Week, a revival of the iconic business TV show, that airs on Fox Business.
Scaramucci's annual SALT hedge fund conference in Vegas has also been a mostly bipartisan affair. The annual hedge fund party at the Bellagio gave a stage to figures as diverse as Trump supporter Boone Pickens and Obama adviser Austan Goolsbee.
But to join Team Trump, Scaramucci has now cut ties with both SALT and his fund SkyBridge Capital, which is being sold to a Chinese consortium.
 Trump adviser's $285M exit from Goldman Sachs
Critics like the columnist Felix Salmon say that Scarmucci's jump from finance to the White House is a "classic revolving door play."
Scaramucci must think he'll cash in once he gets back into the private sector because he'll be "covered in Trumpian fairy dust," Salmon said during a recent Slate podcast.
"I just don't know that Trump fairy dust is going to be worth anything," Salmon said.
After graduating from Harvard Law School, Scaramucci got his start on Wall Street in 1989 in the investment banking division of Goldman Sachs.
Scaramucci said he was "absolutely terrible at the job" and was fired from Goldman in February 1991, according to an interview he gave to recruitment firm OneWire. But Scaramucci worked his network of contacts and ended up finding a job back at Goldman Sachs just two months later in the firm's sales division.
Trump, who held up Goldman Sachs as a symbol of the corrupt establishment during the campaign, now has a long list of Goldman veterans working for him.
In addition to Scaramucci, they include treasury secretary nominee Steven Mnuchin, White House adviser Steve Bannon, top economic adviser Gary Cohn and Dina Powell, who will work closely with Ivanka Trump.
Scaramucci has pushed back against criticism over the Goldman hires.
"The idea that ever working for Goldman Sachs automatically makes you the devil is one of the most irrational conspiracies in modern society," Scaramucci said on Twitter.
The idea that ever working for Goldman Sachs automatically makes you the devil is one of the most irrational conspiracies in modern society https://t.co/qeezUVwTdh

The Dow fell 107 points Tuesday, its second consecutive triple-digit point drop and third straight daily loss. The S&P 500 has fallen for the past four days.
It's important to point out though that this is hardly a panic. The Dow has only fallen about 270 points, or 1.4%, from last week's record highs. The S&P 500 and tech-heavy Nasdaq both hit new all-time highs last week too.
 Trump's travel ban: Companies and executives speak out
But the unbridled bullishness that Wall Street had for Trump could continue to fade if his administration stays on a path of economic isolationism.
Several leading CEOs have already urged Trump to soften his stance on the immigration ban. And Wall Street strategists are starting to worry that Trump's pro-growth stimulus plans are taking a back seat to anti-foreigner rhetoric.
"There are a number of questions on Donald Trump when it comes to handling issues of trade deals, immigration, protectionism and developing a sound foreign relationship," said Naeem Aslam, chief market analyst for Think Markets UK, in a report Tuesday.
Aslam noted that "optimism around infrastructure and fiscal spending" had helped boost the markets after the election. But traders are now "increasingly worried that there is a possibility of trade wars."
Trump's tough talk with big American businesses about keeping costs down -- be it the price of military planes or prescription drugs -- seems to be scaring some investors as well.
 Trump isolationism is bad for business
To that end, Wall Street's so-called fear gauge, a measure of volatility known as the VIX (VWA), shot up 7% Tuesday following a more than 12% spike Monday. The level of the VIX is still extremely low by historical standards.
But the recent increase has helped push CNNMoney's Fear & Greed Index, a gauge of market sentiment that includes the VIX and six other indicators, closer to Fear territory. The index is now in Neutral mode. It was showing signs of Greed just a month ago.
What could get stocks moving higher again? More concrete proposals about tax reform and financial reform and less talk about border controls.
Katie Nixon, chief investment officer with Northern Trust Wealth Management, wrote Monday that while "Trump's pro-growth agenda has the ability to add momentum to the economy," she is concerned that "immigration and trade proposals may offset some of the benefits to tax reform."
Nixon added that "a border tax, significant limitations/constraints on trade and limits on immigration" could also lead to a significant rise in inflation that could threaten the market rally.
The recent spike in gold, which also tends to rise during times of market turmoil, might be another sign that investors are starting to question just how good President Trump will be for stocks.
 Will Trump kill the Trump rally?
Tom Stringfellow, president and chief investment officer with Frost Investment Advisors, said in a report that investors should not ignore the rise in gold prices, as well as the recent weakening of the dollar and spike in long-term bond yields.
Stringfellow said that Trump's quick decision to get out of the Trans-Pacific Partnership and talk about tearing up the NAFTA agreement should unnerve the market even more than it has already.
"While President Trump has clearly telegraphed his intentions to back away from existing trade agreements, many incorrectly assumed these actions were to be explored further down the road. Last week proved otherwise," he wrote.
Still, other market experts aren't too concerned about Trump's tough talk.
"Despite mounting rhetoric, the lesson we can draw from recent and past events is that the U.S. market continues to be optimistic about the prospective impact of proposed economic policies, such as tax cuts, deregulation, and greater infrastructure and defense spending," wrote Patrick Chovanec, chief strategist at Silvercrest Asset Management, in a report Tuesday.
In other words, all of this is just part of Trump's penchant for negotiating in public, be it through media interviews, press conferences or Twitter.
Many of Trump's predecessors in the White House have been far more diplomatic. So this new way of governing may take some getting used to on the part of Wall Street. President Trump may continue to tweet first and worry about the consequences later.
It's not just Alqaut's future that is uncertain. As a result of President Trump's executive orders, roughly 218 million people from seven Muslim-majority countries have been banned from entering the U.S. -- at least temporarily. Other Muslims will be subject to "extreme vetting."
 Sanctuary cities: What's at stake
Alqaut immigrated to the U.S. from Egypt after winning a green card lottery in 2012 and now fears his green card will suddenly no longer be valid and he will be deported. The Department of Homeland Security has said that their legal interpretation is that green card holders are not affected by the executive order.
But, nevertheless, he's afraid to leave the country. Even though Egypt isn't on the list of banned countries, he's decided not to visit his family later this year because he's afraid he won't be allowed back into the U.S.
Alqaut said he's frustrated because his hard work isn't being taken into consideration. "It doesn't matter anymore," he said. "President Trump is saying that I shouldn't have the opportunity to be a better person."
 The steep cost of underemploying highly skilled immigrants
"People in other countries look to the U.S. to be better. What does America represent now?," he asked.
Akbar Hossain is asking similar questions following Trump's executive orders.
Hossain and his family came to the U.S. in 2001 after winning a visa lottery in their home country of Bangladesh. They settled in Norristown, Pennsylvania.
"When we first moved to Norristown, my dad was making $5 an hour working at a convenience store from 6 p.m. to 2 a.m. Then, he worked at a factory from 3 a.m. to 11 a.m. and then he would do construction and odd jobs with neighbors on the weekend," Hossain said.
 My American Dream: Offering legal help to other immigrants
Now, Hossain is 25 and studying law at the University of Pennsylvania. He's also one of 30 recipients of the Paul and Daisy Soros Fellowships for New Americans, which pays up to $90,000 for the graduate educations of immigrants or children of immigrants.
Hossain hopes to become a legal advocate for immigrants from low-income communities.
As a law student, he said that he's heartened to know that there's a system in place to protect people. But, he said, "I'm angry, too, when I see Muslims here who contribute so much to their communities -- opening businesses and participating in politics -- having the door to the American Dream shut in their face."
Hossain said that a fear of the unknown is driving much of the anti-Muslim hysteria, and he wants to fix that.
"My thing has always been to provide access to someone who wants to meet a Muslim," he said. "I can't give you a deep historical lesson about Islam, but I can tell you what I do every day."
 Immigrants: These cities want you!
In December, after someone yelled at him from a passing car to go back to where he came from, Hossain wrote an op-ed for Philly.com offering to have coffee with anyone who wanted to join him.
He said he's received about 350 emails, including some from people who voted for Trump who said they had never met a Muslim. So far, he's met 10 people for coffee and has 32 more on his calendar.
Some of the people he's met are surprised to hear that he's studying law at an Ivy League school, he said. Others are just surprised to sit face-to-face with him.
Hossain and Alqaut both said they feel hopeful, especially after witnessing the thousands of people who protested against Trump's executive orders over the weekend.
"We are seeing the real Americans," said Alqaut. "It's a very good feeling to see how much people worry about each other. I travel a lot and I've never seen such good people as I see here."
So she quit her day job in 2005 and founded SoleRebels, which turns scraps of rubber from old tires and other recycled material into stylish footwear.

The company, which sold 125,000 pairs of shoes in 2016, has already delivered its promise of work. Since opening, SoleRebels has created 1,200 jobs and plans to have more than 3,000 full-time Ethiopian employees by the end of 2018 when a new production facility is complete.
The jobs pay well too -- three times the average wage, according to Alemu.
"I was born here in Ethiopia and I grew up here so I saw the state of people -- the way they lived and the way they worked, and I felt if I had a company (it) should pay a certain amount of money so the employees can take care of themselves and their families," she said.
Ethiopia's economy has been enjoying a period of strong growth, in stark contrast to decades past when the country was blighted by war and famine.
Alemu is hoping to do more for Ethiopia's recovery with a new business she's about to launch: Garden of Coffee.
Guests who visit the Addis Ababa cafe will be able to watch local coffee beans being roasted and ground.
While SoleRebels and Garden of Coffee may seem worlds apart, Alemu believes they both show how resourceful Ethiopia can be.
"I began Garden of Coffee so that people everywhere can experience the magic of hand-roasted Ethiopian coffees, roasted at their source by Ethiopia's finest coffee artisans," she said.
Alemu is hoping to open three cafes in Abbis Ababa, before expanding to the U.S. and Europe.
And the company said its chief financial officer was stepping down for "personal reasons." Wall Street often assumes that an executive leaving for "personal reasons" is a sign that a company is in trouble and that someone needs to take the fall.
Under Armour (UAA) tanked on this trifecta of bad news. Shares plunged nearly 25% in early trading Tuesday. That put the stock on track for its worst one-day drop ever.
Under Armour CEO Kevin Plank, who is part of a group of business leaders advising President Trump about economic policy for U.S. manufacturers, said in the earnings announcement that there were "numerous challenges and disruptions" in the quarter.
Many big retailers -- most notably Macy's (M) and Kohl's (KSS) -- reported weak results for the holidays, leading investors to wonder whether the American consumer is in trouble or if traditional retailers are just losing more ground to Amazon.
 Under Armour CEO is part of Donald Trump's manufacturing council
Under Armour has been hit particularly hard by the problems facing brick-and-mortar retailers, especially those specializing in athletic wear. The Sports Authority went out of business. Finish Line (FINL) closed hundreds of stores last year.
The poor start to 2017 for Under Armour is even more troubling when you consider how awful a year the company had in 2016. The stock plummeted nearly 30% last year because of weak sales and the broader challenges in the athletic apparel industry.
Archrival Nike (NKE) also had a dismal 2016. In fact, it was the worst-performing Dow stock last year.
Both were hurt by a resurgent Adidas (ADDDF), which posted strong sales and earnings last year, partly because of ties to the Summer Olympics in Rio and the Euro 2016 soccer tournament.
 Nike was the big winner in Alabama-Clemson NCAA rematch
But while Under Armour is still struggling, Nike has bounced back. It reported solid results for its latest quarter, fueled by a rebound in China and Europe.
Nike's stock did fall Tuesday along with Under Armour. But the House of Swoosh's shares are still up nearly 4% this year. Nike also recently announced plans to set up small Nike stores at JCPenney (JCP) -- a deal that could hurt Under Armour, too.
Under Armour can't seem to catch a break. It was once a Wall Street darling. Investors embraced its upstart, underdog story.
They also loved that the company was able to sign big names like Curry, Brady and others -- such as Carolina Panthers quarterback Cam Newton, baseball star Bryce Harper and golf champion Jordan Spieth -- to big deals.
But Under Armour has a lot of challenges it now has to overcome. The company's famous marketing tagline -- "We Must Protect This House!" -- now sounds like a rallying cry that's fallen on deaf ears on Wall Street ... and with sneaker-buying consumers.
In an interview with the Financial Times published Tuesday, Navarro said that Germany "continues to exploit other countries in the EU as well as the U.S. with an 'implicit Deutsche Mark' that is grossly undervalued."
The euro surged after the comments were published, strengthening by nearly 1% in afternoon trading.
Navarro, an economist who serves as the head of Trump's National Trade Council, is also a harsh critic of China's trade policies, which he blames for a loss of manufacturing jobs in the U.S.
Germany runs a massive trade surplus, exporting far more goods than it imports. In the first 11 months of 2016, the imbalance totaled €255 billion euros ($274 billion).
Many economists, including those at the European Central Bank, have long warned that the trade imbalance between Germany and other European countries poses a risk to the eurozone.
But they also say it's the central bank's monetary policy that has weakened the euro, not anything that Germany has done.
 The euro cannot survive unless Europe changes
Several European leaders have already expressed concerns about the future of the U.S.- EU relationship.
Donald Tusk, the president of the European Council, sent a letter Tuesday to EU members warning them that "worrying declarations by the new American administration all make our future highly unpredictable."
"The change in Washington puts the European Union in a difficult situation; with the new administration seeming to put into question the last 70 years of American foreign policy," Tusk said.
French President Francois Hollande has also said the Trump administration poses challenges for Europe. Merkel has said that Europe must face its challenges together.
-- Chris Liakos contributed reporting.
The company's bottom line also took a hit from writing down the value of undeveloped natural gas assets in the Rocky Mountains region by almost $2 billion.
Despite the disappointing results from the last three months, there are signs that Exxon may have begun to turn the corner. For the first time since mid-2014, Exxon's revenue didn't decline last quarter. But the 2% bump in revenue to $61 billion was less than Wall Street had been anticipating.
Oil prices have roughly doubled since bottoming last February at $26 a barrel. But they are still about half of their 2014 peak due to a continued supply glut caused largely by the U.S. shale oil boom.
 Tillerson's Exxon didn't put America first
Under Tillerson, Exxon was slow to take advantage of the surge of new U.S. oil resources as it focused on mega deals overseas instead. But earlier this month Exxon purchased $5.6 billion of assets in a New Mexico section of the Permian Basin, a hotbed of shale oil development.
During a conference call with analysts, Exxon said the oil giant continues to comply with existing sanctions on Russia. Those sanctions froze Exxon's mega development deal in the Russian Arctic that was sealed in 2011 by Tillerson, who has deep ties to Russia.
"I'm not going to speculate when or if they are...removed in the future," said Jeff Woodbury, Exxon's head of investor relations.
Analysts have said that Exxon could be one of the big winners of improved relations between Washington and Moscow.
Exxon also said it is "monitoring the situation very closely" in Iraq following President Trump's ban on travelers from Iraq and six other majority-Muslim nations.
Exxon has a joint venture in southern Iraq and a controversial deal to explore for oil fields in the semi-autonomous Kurdish region in the north.
The Amazon motion refers to an unnamed Libyan-born senior Amazon lawyer who has been a British citizen for many years.
"This employee had plans to travel to the United States for business during the month of February. We have instructed the employee to cancel her plans and remain in the UK rather than risk being denied entry to the United States," the motion says.
 Companies executives speak out on Trump's travel ban
Amazon also says it has offered jobs to seven Iranian-born candidates who are citizens of other countries, as well as 10 employees who have dependents from the seven countries who are living legally in the United States.
It also brings up the case of Iranian filmmaker Asghar Farhadi, who will not be able to attend the Academy Awards ceremony, even though his film, which is distributed by Amazon Studios, is nominated for an Oscar.
Expedia's motion describes potential damage to its travel business. At least 1,000 of its customers hold passports from the seven countries, the company says. It also mentions employees whose travel could be restricted.
Expedia (EXPE) CEO Dara Khosrowshahi was once an Iranian refugee whose family came to the United States after the Iranian Revolution in 1978. He wrote a long message to his employees decrying the ban.
Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos has been a frequent Trump critic and owns The Washington Post. Trump in threatened during the campaign to cause big problems for Amazon (AMZN, Tech30) if he was elected. He has yet to announce any action.
 Trump's immigration reform - High-skilled visas may be next
The Washington State lawsuit says Trump's ban violates the First Amendment guarantee of freedom of religion and the Fifth Amendment guarantee of due process.
Washington State University also filed in support of the suit, detailing problems that the ban is causing its students and faculty.
TCS and Infosys declined to comment. Wipro did not respond to requests for comment.
India's vast outsourcing industry employs millions of people. Its business in the U.S., where it provides engineering and other tech services to firms such as IBM (IBM, Tech30), Microsoft (MSFT, Tech30) and Citibank (C), is highly dependent on the H-1B visa.
The U.S. is worth about $65 billion to India's tech industry. Indian media warned of a major setback ahead.
"[It] is a fact that these categories of workers are in short supply in the U.S.," said R Chandrashekhar, president of Nasscom, which represents India's software industry. Restricting H-1B visas would "have implications for both Indian companies and American corporations as well," he told CNNMoney.
The former U.S. ambassador to India, Richard Verma, estimated last year that 70% of the 85,000 H-1B visas issued annually go to Indian workers. The visas, which are currently allocated by a lottery system, are hugely oversubscribed -- demand for them in 2016 was three times more than the number available.
 Bipartisan bill aims to reform H1-B visa system
Now, that system is under attack on multiple fronts. Three separate bills have been introduced in the U.S. Congress this month aiming to curb the program in various ways.
It is also in Trump's crosshairs. A draft executive order obtained by CNNMoney calls for several changes to U.S. immigration rules, although it was not immediately clear what the specific impact on the H-1B visas would be.
"I think with respect to H-1Bs and other visas, it's part of a larger immigration reform effort that the president will continue to talk about," Trump's press secretary Sean Spicer told reporters on Monday.
Spicer added that Trump will do so "through executive order and through working with Congress."
Silicon Valley lawmaker Zoe Lofgren introduced a bill a week ago, calls for removing the lottery system and replacing it with a preference for companies that can pay the highest salaries.
That would make it far more costly for Indian firms to send their workers to the U.S.
"Cost was the major advantage for Indian companies, and that will get impacted," said D.D. Mishra, a research director at technology consultancy Gartner.
Mishra estimates that up to 30% of employees working on software projects for Indian firms are overseas. The proportion is much higher for hardware projects, meaning companies would struggle if they faced restrictions on the number of Indians they could employ.
"There is very little room to maneuver...without disrupting the quality of work," he said.
The Indian government says it has made its view known to Trump and U.S. lawmakers.
"India's interests and concerns have been conveyed both to the U.S. Administration and the U.S. Congress at senior levels," foreign ministry spokesman Vikas Swarup said Tuesday.
 Silicon Valley lawmaker introduces H1-B reform bill
-- Sugam Pokharel and Medhavi Arora contributed reporting
But the ban could damage wider U.S. interests. There are around 47 countries and territories in the world where Islam is the dominant religion. Total U.S. trade in goods with those countries topped $220 billion in 2015, according to the U.S. Census Bureau. In the first 11 months of 2016, the value of trade reached $194 billion.
Put another way, the U.S. does roughly 6% of its total trade with Muslim-majority countries.
The bulk of the trade in goods -- 94% -- was with just 15 countries, including Malaysia, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates, Turkey, Indonesia and Iraq.
Here are the U.S.' top trading partners in the Muslim world.
Malaysia
The U.S. runs a $22.9 billion trade deficit with Malaysia.
American firms including Exxon Mobil (XOM), Chevron (CVX), ConocoPhillips (COP), Murphy Oil (MUR) and Dow Chemical (DOW) have invested billions in the country though subsidiaries and in contracts with local companies.
Other hot areas include financial services and manufacturing.
The Bureau of Economic Analysis said U.S. companies invested nearly $14 billion in Malaysia in 2015.
 These are America's biggest trading partners
Saudi Arabia
Saudi Arabia and the U.S. traded over $31 billion worth of goods in the first 11 months of 2016. American companies exported cars, industrial machinery, construction equipment, civil aircraft, defense systems, IT and health care products to the Kingdom.
In return, the U.S imported 386 million barrels of oil from Saudi Arabia in 2015, according to the U.S. Energy Information Administration. The country is the second biggest source of foreign oil into the U.S.
American firms have invested $10 billion in the country, according to the BEA. General Electric (GE) alone has invested $1 billion.
 Tech employees reeling after immigration order
UAE
The U.S. and the UAE traded $23.3 billion worth of goods in the first 11 months of 2016.
It's the single largest market for U.S. exports in the Middle East, and American companies have invested $15.6 billion into the country.
More than 1,000 American firms operate in the country.
Boeing's Middle East headquarters is in Dubai. It has partnered with local investment company Mubadala to manufacture parts for the 777 and 787 Dreamliner aircraft. The deal, announced in 2013, is worth $2.3 billion over 10 years.
Lockheed Martin (LMT), GE and ExxonMobil (XOM) also have long-term business partnerships in the country.
Indonesia
Indonesia is home to the world's largest Muslim population.
Trade in goods between the country and the U.S. reached $23 billion in the first 11 months of 2016.
Indonesia, which is a member of the G20 group of world's biggest economies, has attracted $13.5 billion in American investments, mainly in the mining sector.
General Motors (GM) has a plant near the capital Jakarta. Cargill also has a major presence in the country.
 These companies wouldn't exist if it weren't for immigrants
Turkey
Trade between the U.S. and Turkey grew to $17.4 billion in 2015 from $10.8 billion in 2009.
U.S. companies have invested $3.6 billion in Turkey in recent years, led by the banking and manufacturing sectors.
Ford, General Electric and Unilever (UL) all do business in the country. With over 10,600 staff, Ford (F) is the biggest employer in the Turkish automotive industry.
The Apple results will show how successful the iPhone 7 was during the holiday season.
In Japan, shares in Nintendo declined by nearly 2% Tuesday after the firm reported its latest earnings.
2. Fed meets to discuss rates: The U.S. Federal Reserve will kick off a two-day meeting to discuss interest rates and monetary policy.
Fed chair Janet Yellen said earlier this month that the economy is near maximum employment and inflation was moving closer to the central bank's goal. Yellen reiterated that she and other Fed leaders expect to raise rates a "few times a year" until 2019.
The Fed may also discuss President Donald Trump's new policies and their economic impact. Before Trump took office, Fed officials said there was "considerable uncertainty" surrounding his plans.
Before the Bell newsletter: Key market news. In your inbox. Subscribe now!
3. Global market overview: Investor enthusiasm is waning on the final day of January.
Traders are considering President Trump's latest moves related to his travel ban, which bars citizens of seven Muslim-majority countries from entering the United States for 90 days.
Trump fired acting Attorney General Sally Yates Monday night for "refusing to enforce" the order.
"Trump's decision to fire the acting U.S. Attorney General caused equity markets to weaken," said Paul Donovan, global chief economist at UBS Wealth Management. "Diversity and tolerance are not just morally good, they are also good for profits. Challenging diversity and tolerance has long-term profit implications."
U.S. stock futures have dipped into the red.
European markets were mostly higher in early trading. Most Asian markets ended the day with losses.
The Dow Jones industrial average, S&P 500 and Nasdaq all dropped on Monday.
4. Deutsche Bank in trouble: German lender Deutsche Bank (DB) is facing roughly $630 million in fines for failing to deal with a Russian money-laundering scheme that used its London and New York branches.
This follows a $7.2 billion settlement Deutsche Bank reached with the U.S. last month over toxic mortgage assets and the $2.5 billion it agreed to pay in 2015 over interest rate manipulation.
Shares in the bank were up by nearly 2% in European trading.
5. Economics: The latest monthly S&P Case Shiller Home Price Index will be released at 9 a.m. ET.
The Conference Board's Consumer Confidence Index for January is out at 10 a.m. ET.
Download CNN MoneyStream for up-to-the-minute market data and news
6. Coming this week:
Tuesday - Fed meeting begins; Last day for Obamacare open enrollment; Apple (AAPL, Tech30) reports earnings Wednesday - Facebook (FB, Tech30) earnings; Auto sales reports Thursday - Amazon (AMZN, Tech30) and Chipotle (CMG) earnings Friday - U.S. jobs report for January
The latest fines penalize Deutsche Bank (DB)'s failure to deal with a stock-trading scheme that enabled some of its clients in Russia to improperly move huge sums of money out of the country and into offshore accounts, according to regulators.
 DoJ vs big banks: $60 billion in fines for toxic mortgages
"The bank missed numerous opportunities to detect, investigate and stop the scheme due to extensive compliance failures, allowing the scheme to continue for years," the New York State Department of Financial Services said in a statement.
Deutsche Bank was fined $425 million by the New York agency and £163 million ($204 million) by the U.K. Financial Conduct Authority.
"The failings of Deutsche Bank are simply unacceptable," said Mark Steward, the U.K. authority's director of enforcement. It said the way billions of dollars were transferred into overseas bank accounts in places like Cyprus, Estonia and Latvia was "highly suggestive of financial crime."
Under the U.S. settlement, the German lender will have to bring in an independent monitor to review how it handles banking secrecy and anti-money laundering rules.
Deutsche Bank said in a statement that it already has the latest U.S. and U.K. penalties covered in reserves it has set aside for legal bills.
 Deutsche Bank finalizes $7.2 billion settlement
Fears over whether the bank had enough money to pay its mounting fines from regulators escalated dramatically in September.
The original U.S. Justice Department demand for a $14 billion settlement over the toxic mortgage assets prompted Deutsche Bank shares to plunge to their lowest level in over 20 years. The stock has rebounded strongly since then as those worries eased, but it's still down around 15% since the start of last year.
Deutsche Bank said that it's still cooperating with other investigations by regulators and law enforcement agencies into the Russian trades.
The German lender said in September 2015 that it was closing its investment banking business in Russia and would in future work with Russian corporate clients from abroad.
But Trump suggested the financial overhaul went too far. The new president blamed excessive regulation for making it "virtually impossible" for small and medium-sized businesses to get loans from banks.
However, Trump did not explain what exactly he wants to do: gut the regulation completely, or put parts of it on the chopping block.
 Will Trump kill the Trump rally?
Sean Spicer, the White House press secretary, wouldn't divulge any details during his press briefing about what "do a big number" means either. He simply said the Trump administration will work with Congress on reforming Dodd-Frank.
Efforts to gut Dodd-Frank would spark a big fight. Supporters of the law believe it has significantly reduced the odds of another Wall Street meltdown.
Lisa Donner, executive director of a nonprofit coalition pushing for Wall Street accountability called Americans for Financial Reform, said in a statement that it would be "wrongheaded and a betrayal of Trump's campaign promises to reign in Wall Street abuses."
After Trump's victory, Federal Reserve chief Janet Yellen credited financial regulation with making the system "safer and sounder" and said she "wouldn't want to see the clock turned back" on Dodd-Frank.
Big bank stocks have been on a tear since the election in part due to bets that Trump and Republican-controlled Congress will dial back financial reform. JPMorgan Chase (JPM) has soared 23% since Trump's victory, while Goldman Sachs (GS) has spiked nearly 30%.
 Fix, don't kill the Volcker Rule
It's unclear how it will shape out. Republicans have proposed sweeping reform that would eliminate the Volcker Rule, which prevents big banks from making risky bets with their own money. However, Steven Mnuchin, Trump's treasury secretary nominee, said he supports the Volcker Rule and suggested reforming it instead of abolishing it.
Likewise, Mnuchin said he thinks it's worth keeping the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, the watchdog inspired by Senator Elizabeth Warren that has taken on big banks like Wells Fargo (WFC). By comparison, legislation introduced by the GOP would kill the CFPB and some Republicans want Trump to fire its director.
Mnuchin has previously signaled that the Trump administration's focus would be on helping Main Street lenders that have been unfairly caught up in excess regulation.
 Trump adviser's $285M Goldman Sachs exit
Trump's criticism of Dodd-Frank came just after he signed an executive order pushing government agencies to identify two regulations to eliminate for each new regulation issued.
Even though many bank regulators are independent, Cowen & Co. analyst Jaret Seiberg predicted that many would try to comply with Trump's executive order anyway.
"This is done both out of general deference to the President and to limit the political fallout that could occur if any agency were seen as defying the White House," Seiberg wrote.
But Seiberg cautioned against betting that Trump will try to repeal Dodd-Frank completely.
"We have trouble seeing this President exposing himself to charges that he's doing the bidding of Wall Street banks," he wrote.
More than 11.5 million people signed up for coverage through the federal marketplace, healthcare.gov, and the 11 state-based and Washington D.C. exchanges, as of Dec. 24, according to the latest comprehensive data available. That's 286,000 more than the comparable time a year earlier.
 Obamacare remains popular, with 11.5 million sign ups so far
The Obama administration projected last fall that 13.8 million people will sign up this open enrollment season, which began Nov. 1.
Interest was high on Tuesday, with some users being shifted to a virtual "waiting room" to sign up.
"Despite the political uncertainty around the Affordable Care Act, we've continued to see very strong interest from consumers who want to find quality, affordable health insurance for their families," said Anne Filipic, president of Enroll America, an advocacy group that supports Obamacare.
President Trump and Congressional Republicans, however, paint Obamacare as a program that burdens consumers and is on the verge of collapse. The Department of Health & Human Services last week pulled the final $4 to $5 million in advertising promoting the end of open enrollment. The move was decried by advocates and insurers, noting that the final days of enrollment are crucial in attracting younger, healthier consumers.
Though Trump and Congress have started the process to repeal Obamacare, the program will continue this year and possibly next. Insurers have signed contracts to provide coverage through this year.
 Trump pulls Obamacare ads days ahead of enrollment deadline
Insurers are also closely watching this year's enrollment figures, which will play a role in whether they decide to remain in the market in 2018 and what premiums they charge.
Some states that run their own exchanges are giving their residents more time to sign up.
Californians who start their applications Tuesday will have an additional four days to complete the process.
"Experience tells us that people wait until the last day to sign up for health insurance and we do not want to leave anyone behind," said Covered California Executive Director Peter V. Lee.
Residents of Minnesota will have through Feb. 8 to enroll. MNsure, the state exchange, extended enrollment so consumers can take advantage of a new state law that provides an automatic 25% reduction in premiums to those who buy policies on the exchange but aren't eligible for federal subsidies.
Isolationism isn't good for most businesses. And the message from business leaders is coming in loud and clear: This ban hurts business. CEOs of major American companies like Netflix (NFLX, Tech30), Google (GOOG) GE (GE), Goldman Sachs (GS) and Ford (F) quickly decried the order.
Wall Street also sent a powerful message Monday as the stock market put in its worst performance since the election. Up until last week, many on Wall Street and Main Street focused on Trump's plans to cut taxes, spend more on roads and bridges and scale back regulations.
But Trump's executive order Friday threatened to derail the momentum. That along with the talk of 20% tariffs on Mexico (or other countries) is bringing back fears that America's ties with the global business community are under siege.
"American business and the American president are now at odds. It is impossible to be a successful global corporation with the 'Trump Wall,'" wrote Peter Atwater, president of Financial Insyghts in his note Sunday.
Here's a rundown of how bad it could get for the U.S. economy if Trump pushes forward with an isolationist agenda.
 Trump's travel ban: Companies and executives speak out
1. Loss of top talent -- America wins in business because it has been able to attract a lot of the top talent from around the world. Companies like Apple (AAPL, Tech30), eBay (EBAY) and Oracle (ORCL, Tech30) were founded by immigrants or the children of immigrants from countries that are part of the Trump immigration ban.
Friday's ban is already preventing PhD students, doctors, researchers and business leaders from returning to the U.S. or traveling abroad. Google (GOOGL, Tech30), for example, says at least 100 of its employees are impacted. Beyond the immediate impact, the ban might cause talented young people who were to go elsewhere. Canada has been quick to put out the welcome mat.
Get ready for "unintended consequences" wrote Mahamed El-Erian, chief economic adviser at Allianz, on LinkedIn, "that ultimately could prove counterproductive and harmful to national security, the economy, and America's moral authority, values and standing in the world."
 These companies wouldn't exist if it weren't for immigrants
2. Big American brands and tourism could take a hit -- Goldman Sachs has already sent a note about the "growing risks to global trade." The bank recommends that clients invest in companies that are smaller and doing most of their sales in the U.S. Translation: America's big global brands could suffer.
A company like Apple has over 200 suppliers around the world, according to Macworld. Anything that prevents the flow of goods or people across borders will cause upheaval.
On top of that, tourism makes contributes about $1.5 trillion a year to the U.S. economy (roughly 8% of GDP), according to the World Travel and Tourism Council and U.S. government data. Friday's ban and the ensuing chaos at U.S. airports over the weekend could cause foreigners to book trips elsewhere.
 Will Trump kill the Trump rally?
3. A trade war -- No foreign country will send a thank you note to Trump if he enacts tariffs on foreign goods coming into the U.S. They will retaliate. Mexico is already talking tough about a rapid response, and China's army went as far as to warn the risk of war as "more real" over the weekend.
This is exactly what Republican business executives like Mitt Romney and Meg Whitman warned about almost a year ago. They said Trump could send the U.S. into a recession if he cut America off from the rest of the world with walls, tariffs and severe immigration restrictions.
It hasn't happened yet, but the possibility is growing that it will.
This could have a swift impact on American jobs. For example, 6 million U.S. jobs depend on trade with Mexico alone, according to the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. And experts are already warning that costs will go up for many goods if Trump implements a tariff (another word for a tax).
 The tech firms fighting Trump's travel ban with cash
4. Uncertainty could return rapidly -- There's widespread consensus that the refugee ban was poorly planned and implemented. It raises questions about how well prepared Trump is to tackle even bigger issues.
"The net result is more uncertainty and jitters among investors," says Naeem Aslam, chief market analyst at Think Markets UK. Stock market volatility -- known as the VIX -- jumped 17% Monday, although it's still at very low levels.
On top of that, the message from the business community to Trump since the election has been: Focus on tax cuts, lowering regulatory hurdles and infrastructure. Now there is concern that Trump is focused on the wrong priorities. That breeds greater uncertainty as well.
"The one issue that matters the most for Wall Street -- tax reform -- isn't on the front burner, and could get delayed amid the furor over immigration," says Greg Valliere, chief strategist at Horizon Investments.
One of the key economic problems under President Obama was that businesses sat on cash and didn't invest much in the future. They won't do that now if they see too many risks.
 A 20% Mexico tariff would pay for the wall. But it would hurt Americans
5. China may seize this opening -- China is already trying to take advantage of Trump's protectionism. Chinese President Xi Jinping delivered a robust defense of trade and globalization in a major international speech at the World Economic Forum in Davos. It's a glaring contrast to Trump doubling down on his calls for "America First" policies.
In his first week in office, Trump also pulled the U.S. out of the Asia-Pacific trade deal known as TPP. That opens a big door for China to be the leader in negotiating a broad Asian trade pact instead.
It remains to be seen what other opportunities Trump may give President Xi. If, for example, Trump doesn't show up to global meetings like the G20, that immediately makes China's voice more powerful on the global stage.
Of course, foreign businesses trying to operate in China still face a lot of "hostile" hurdles. China's talk of free trade isn't always backed up by its own policies.
But the bottom line is if the U.S. puts up more trade barriers, the world's No. 2 economy will look more attractive. China is already signaling it's pulling out the welcome tea. That could have repercussions for years to come.
"The next wave of economic dislocations won't come from overseas. It will come from the relentless pace of automation that makes a lot of good middle class jobs obsolete," President Obama said in his farewell address.
Research supports Obama's claim. Far more jobs are lost to robots and automation -- better technology -- than trade with China, Mexico or any other country.
To be sure, America has lost a lot of jobs to trade, but robots threaten many more traditional, assembly line jobs. There are nearly 5 million fewer manufacturing jobs today than there were in 2000.
 U.S. manufacturing job openings back at 2007 levels
MIT professor David Autor found that U.S. trade with China killed 985,000 American manufacturing jobs between 1999 and 2011. And Robert Scott, an economist at the Economic Policy Institute, estimates that trade with Mexico cost roughly 800,000 U.S. jobs between 1997 and 2013.
That might sound high. But consider that last year alone, the U.S. added more jobs than those losses combined. Other research shows robots eat up a much bigger portion of the job-loss pie.
One study by two Ball State University professors found that between 2000 and 2010, about 87% of the manufacturing job losses stemmed from factories becoming more efficient. The chief driver of more efficiency in factories: automation and better technology. The other 13% of job losses were due to trade.

Simply put: it requires fewer workers to make the same amount of cars as it did in 2000. In fact, as the industry has lost workers, the value of U.S. manufacturing production is hovering near an all-time high.
"That to me is first order evidence -- it's not trade," that's taking most jobs away, says J. Bradford Jensen, an economics professor at Georgetown University. "There's been a lot of technical change that has reduced the need for labor -- some of it is automation, some of it is design, more software, less hardware."
So why not crack down on robots if they're driving the job losses?
"It's harder to demonize what everyone sees as technical progress, it's easier to demonize the foreigner," Jensen added.
 40% of a Mexican import is American
Experts stress it's really hard to pin down exactly how many jobs automation has taken away partly because automation also creates new jobs.
MIT professor Daron Acemoglu uses the example of ATMs. They perform the jobs that bank tellers once did. But there isn't much evidence that bank employment tanked as a result of ATMs.
"When tellers stopped doing the cash dispensing, they found more intensive jobs to do," says Acemoglu.
It's a transition that challenges millions of manufacturing workers. The rapid pace of innovation means assembly line workers require higher job skills, experts say. That challenge makes it easy to get left behind.
 A 20% tariff would pay for the wall. But Americans would pay it
Another piece of evidence: there were 324,000 manufacturing job openings in November -- about the same level before the Great Recession started in 2007. Experts say many of those open jobs require high skill sets.
Automation is a job creator too. Autor, the MIT economist, found that new technology spurred job growth in some areas even as it ate into assembly line work.
That trend poses a challenge to Trump's goal of bringing manufacturing jobs back from China and Mexico.
"If you prevent that trade now, some of that production might come back, but the employment that comes back will not be for people, it will be for robots," says Acemoglu, the MIT professor.
In 2009, many Iraqi oil fields were opened up for development following years of violence. The government was desperate to increase oil production and revive its war-torn economy.
Iraq sits on more than 143 billion barrels of reserves, the 5th biggest in the world, and Tillerson was quick to spot the opportunity.
ExxonMobil committed to a $50 billion joint venture to develop a giant field called West Qurna, located in the south of the country. The venture has been a success -- the Qurna field produced 377,000 barrels of oil per day in 2015, up by about 150,000 barrels since 2010, according to ExxonMobil.
 Rex Tillerson to put Exxon nest egg in a trust over conflict of interest concerns
But it hasn't all been plain sailing for ExxonMobil. Two years after the Qurna deal, the company found itself in hot water.
Tillerson made a controversial move, signing a deal to explore for oil in the semi-autonomous Kurdish region in northern Iraq.
The Iraqi government in Baghdad deems any deals with the Kurdish region illegal, and is in a long-running dispute over how to divide revenue from oil fields under Kurdish control.
The move was also in defiance of U.S. policy at the time. The New Yorker reported in December that Tillerson didn't ask for State Department permission, but called officials after the fact to say: "I had to do what was best for my shareholders."
"I think there were some raised eyebrows when ExonnMobil decided to go into northern Iraq but the reality is it is a company that had the capacity and skill to get involved in both of those type of developments," said John Roper, chairman of the Dubai Petroleum Club, a forum for regional energy executives.
In a bid to placate the Iraqi government, Tillerson agreed to reduce ExxonMobil's stake in Qurna to 25% from 60%.
Now, tensions are rising again, and not just over the ban on Iraqi citizens traveling to the U.S. for the next 90 days.
President Trump's unguarded remarks about Iraqi oil are also straining relations.
He has said the U.S. should have kept Iraq's oil after the invasion in 2003, and repeated that assertion in an interview last week.
During an appearance at the CIA this month, Trump said "maybe we'll have another chance" to keep the oil.
"Iraq's oil is constitutionally the property of the Iraqis and anything on the contrary is unacceptable," Iraq's Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi told reporters.
 The tech firms fighting Trump's travel ban with cash
The travel ban prompted the Iraqi parliament on Monday to demand that the government "act reciprocally with the United States."
If the government chooses to act, it could hurt American interests in Iraq, and ExxonMobil would be in the firing line.
Other American oil firms, including Chevron (CVX), are active in the Kurdish region, but Occidental Petroleum (OXY) sold its stake in a field in the south in 2015, leaving ExxonMobil as the only firm operating with Baghdad's permission.
ExxonMobil declined to comment on the travel ban and its impact on staff and operations in Iraq.
A spokesman for Chevron said he wasn't aware of any impact from the travel ban on its business in the Kurdish region.
"We are reviewing the executive order to understand any implications for our employees," he said.
-- John Defterios contributed to this report.
Fields told CNN's Poppy Harlow that was a big factor is the company's statement.
"First and foremost as a company we have to live by our values," he said. "In our hometown, there's a large population [of Arab Americans, including] many of our employees."
The criticism is a sharp contrast to Fields' recent praise of Trump, after they met last week during the president's first days in office. Fields praised Trump after the meetings, and in a call with investors, he said he believes the new president's policies would be good for the nation.
 Trump's travel ban: Companies and executives speak out
And Trump, a frequent critic of Ford during the campaign, has had nothing but praise for the automaker more recently. That came after the company dropped plans to build a $1.6 billion plant in Mexico and said that it would invest $700 million in a Michigan factory, adding 700 jobs.
Ford is still moving all of its small car production south of the border, but it will use an existing plant in Mexico rather than build a new one. The Michigan investment is for building electric cars, which were never slated to go to Mexico.
Fields told CNN Monday that despite the company's criticism of Trump's travel ban policy, it is still very pleased by the administration's overall plans.
"There are a number of other policies that the president has that we do support," he said. "We still have a lot of confidence in the president and his policies, particularly around the economy. From that standpoint I'm very hopeful."
 Detroit at the White House - Trump meets with Big Three auto CEOs
Fields said he will stay on the committee of manufacturing CEOs due to meet with President Trump every couple of months. Asked if he would tell Trump that the travel ban is a bad idea, Fields responded, "We will always be straight forward. We'll do it with candor, but we'll also do it with respect."
There could be more bumps ahead, since the administration has threatened to impose a border tax that could hurt Ford and other automakers that make parts or assemble cars in Mexican factories.
Fields brushed aside any concerns that taking this position on the travel ban could prompt the Trump administration to take a harsher position on issues such as the border tax.
"I think we're just going to be a company that lives by its values and let the chips fall where they may," he said.
 Tech firms fighting Trump's travel ban with cash
British Airways and Emirates Airlines also said they are offering refunds or rebooking. Emirates, the largest airline based in the Middle East, said that only "a very small number of our passengers traveling were affected by the new U.S. immigration entry requirements." Air France said it is offering a "full refund subject to penalties."
The ban is in effect for the next 90 days, so many travelers from these seven countries will have to cancel or delay their U.S. travel plans.
German airline Lufthansa issued a statement saying, "Customers who have been affected by these new regulations are offered a free rebooking." But the airline didn't say whether it would provide refunds.
 Airbnb offers free housing to people barred from flights to U.S.
Other travel-related companies are taking a stand against the travel ban. Airbnb CEO Brian Chesky is offering free housing to "refugees or anyone else who needs it in the event they are denied the ability to board a U.S.-bound flight and are not in your city/country of residence."
Steve Kaufer, CEO at TripAdvisor, posted an essay on LinkedIn denouncing the ban, saying it was "not only heartless and discriminatory, but also against the principles that make our country great."
Instead of focusing on pushing his stimulus plans through Congress, as investors had hoped, Trump is instead acting first on polarizing issues like the ban on travelers from seven majority-Muslim nations. The White House has also taken an aggressive stance on trade, raising concerns on Wall Street over the risk of a trade war.
In other words, investors want tax cuts and spades in the ground, not deeply divisive travel bans.
After a weekend of confusion and protests over the Trump travel ban, the Dow on Monday dropped as many as 223 points before closing down 123 points.
It's not a panic, but still qualifies as Wall Street's worst day since Trump's victory. The VIX (VIX), a gauge of market volatility, spiked by 12% -- the biggest increase in nearly three months.
"There is a palpable new feeling out there that this administration is not going to be linearly ideal for markets," Michael Block, chief market strategist at Rhino Trading, wrote in a note.
"Maybe it will be pro-business overall, but this isn't a matter of snapping one's fingers," Block said.
Jurgen Hardt, a German foreign ministry official, said he's anxiously awaiting the moment when the stock markets "turn from good to bad."
"An America that operates by itself will no longer be attractive for investors," Hardt said.
 Trump on Dow 20K: 'Now we have to go up, up, up
Of course, Monday's market pullback barely puts a dent in a post-election rally that had carried the Dow more than 1,700 points higher. In fact, the losses don't even wipe out last week's strong gains as the Dow blew past the 20,000 milestone.
It's only reasonable -- and healthy -- for the markets to take a breather after such a move.
It's especially apt because there are growing doubts that Trump will be able to get his stimulus plans done fast enough to support the big gains on Wall Street.
Sean Spicer, the White House press secretary, was asked during Monday's press briefing about the market decline and concerns over a delay in tax reform.
Spicer declined to commit to getting tax reform done this year, but said the administration will "continue to work with both houses of Congress."
Trump's promises to cut taxes and ramp up infrastructure spending were always going to be complex and time-consuming to deliver on, even with the GOP in charge of Congress.
The risk is that Trump's early focus on the travel ban, alleged voter fraud and other controversial issues will slow his stimulus plans by emboldening opponents and fracturing would-be allies in Congress.
Chris Krueger, a policy analyst at Cowen & Co., expressed frustration with the "surreal" start to Trump's presidency.
He said the lack of coordination between the White House and Congress doesn't bode well for "gigantic legislative deals" on Obamacare, infrastructure and tax reform.
"This is Trump's second full week as President. With his party in charge of Congress. It really shouldn't be this hard," Krueger wrote.
 Tech firms fighting Trump's travel ban with cash
And then there's Trump's tough trade rhetoric. Trump formally withdrew the U.S. from the TPP trade deal and wants to renegotiate the NAFTA alliance with Canada and Mexico.
The White House has also suggested paying for a wall along the border with Mexico by putting a 20% tax on Mexican imports -- even though that could risk a trade war and would hurt American consumers.
The trade rhetoric, along with new immigration policies, add to a sense that the U.S. is retreating from the global stage.
Block noted that while the market has brushed off political turmoil many times lately, "now we're dealing with a bigger issue -- the U.S. alienating the rest of the world."
Larry Summers, a senior economic official in the Obama administration, believes the markets and economy are "enjoying a sugar-high" that won't last a year.
Writing in the Washington Post's Wonkblog, Summers pointed out that some previous governments with "authoritarian tendencies," including those of Hitler and Mussolini, sparked bull markets "before they led to disaster."
"After the events of the last week, it is much easier to imagine downside than upside scenarios," Summers wrote.
In a memo to employees, they said they do not support the ban. "Respect for all people is a core value of Ford Motor Company, and we are proud of the rich diversity of our company here at home and around the world," they wrote.
Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos
Bezos sent a memo to all of his employees stating, "This executive order is one we do not support," and the memo listed several actions the company was taking to opposed the order.
"We're a nation of immigrants whose diverse backgrounds, ideas, and points of view have helped us build and invent as a nation for over 240 years.... It's a distinctive competitive advantage for our country—one we should not weaken."
Coca-Cola Chairman and CEO Muhtar Kent
Kent said in a statement that "the Coca Cola (CCHGY) Company is resolute in its commitment to diversity, fairness and inclusion, and we do not support this travel ban or any policy that is contrary to our core values and beliefs."
Bank of America CEO Brian Moynihan
"As a global company, we depend upon the diverse sources of talent that our teammates represent," Moynihan wrote in a memo to employees. He added, "In view of this, we are closely monitoring the recent refugee- and immigration-related executive order in the United States, and subsequent developments."
Chobani CEO Hamdi Ulukaya
"This is very personal for me," Ulukaya wrote in internal memo to his staff that was obtained by CNN. "As an immigrant who came to this country looking for opportunity, it's very difficult to think about and imagine what millions of people around the world must be feeling right now."
Uber CEO Travis Kalanick
Kalanick wrote in a Facebook post that he's committed to helping Uber drivers affected by Trump's "unjust immigration and travel ban."
"Drivers who are citizens of Iran, Iraq, Libya, Somalia, Sudan, Syria or Yemen and live in the U.S. but have left the country, will not be able to return for 90 days. This means they won't be able to earn money and support their families during this period," Kalanick said.
He added that Uber is helping those drivers by providing 24/7 legal support, compensating drivers for lost earnings, urging the government to overturn the ban and creating a $3 million legal defense fund. Uber has also created a Google doc where drivers can fill out a form to receive assistance.
Netflix CEO Reed Hastings
"Trump's actions are hurting Netflix (NFLX, Tech30) employees around the world, and are so un-American it pains us all," Hastings said on Facebook (FB, Tech30). "Worse, these actions will make America less safe (through hatred and loss of allies) rather than more safe."
Starbucks CEO Howard Schultz
"We are living in an unprecedented time," Schultz said in a memo to Starbucks (SBUX) employees. He pledged to hire 10,000 refugees over five years in the 75 countries where Starbucks does business to "reinforce our belief in our partners around the world."
Expedia CEO Dara Khosrowshahi
Khosrowshahi spoke of his family's emigration to the United States after the Iranian Revolution in 1978, and the sense of relief that "we were welcome now, and we would be welcome tomorrow."
He wrote to Expedia employees: "I believe that with this Executive Order, our President has reverted to the short game. The U.S. may be ever so slightly less dangerous as a place to live, but it will certainly be seen as a smaller nation, one that is inward-looking versus forward thinking, reactionary versus visionary."
Khosrowshahi pledged that Expedia would work with employees to "ease any pain or difficulties you are having" as a result of the ban.
New York Times Co. CEO Mark Thompson and Times publisher Arthur Sulzberger
"We are committed to diversity of talent, thought and ideas and the fair and equal treatment of all employees, whatever their background," they said in a memo to staff. "We will do everything in our power to support and protect every one of our colleagues, regardless of their race, country of origin, and religion or belief system."
They specified they were speaking as employers, not about the editorial opinion or news reporting of The Times. The Times editorial board on Saturday called the ban cruel, bigoted, cowardly and self-defeating.
Apple CEO Tim Cook
Cook issued a letter, obtained by CNN, reacting to what he called "deep concerns" among employees. He assured workers that Apple (AAPL, Tech30) does not support Trump's policy and the company is prepared to help them.
"Apple would not exist without immigration, let alone thrive and innovate the way we do," Cook said.
Google
Google (GOOG) sent a memo to its employees urging anyone with a visa or green card from one of the banned countries to cancel travel plans.
"Please do not travel outside of the U.S. until the ban is lifted. While the entry restriction is currently only in place for 90 days, it could be extended with little or no warning," reads the memo, which was reviewed by CNN.
Microsoft executive Brad Smith
Microsoft (MSFT, Tech30) said it employs 76 people that could be affected by the ban. Smith said in an email to employees, which was shared on LinkedIn, that it will provide "legal advice and assistance" to those affected.
BlackRock CEO Larry Fink
He wrote to employees: "We, of course, all want to promote security and combat terrorism, but we believe it needs to be done with respect for due process, individual rights and the principle of inclusion."
Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey
Dorsey called the potential impact of Trump's decision "real and upsetting."
The Executive Order's humanitarian and economic impact is real and upsetting. We benefit from what refugees and immigrants bring to the U.S. https://t.co/HdwVGzIECt

General Electric CEO Jeff Immelt
Immelt said, in a memo on the G  (GE)employee blog, that he shares the "concern" felt by his employees and said the company has many employees from the countries named in the ban.
"These employees and customers are critical to our success and they are our friends and partners," he wrote, adding that GE would "stand with them" and try to find a balance between security and "movement of law abiding people."
Immelt was one of 28 business leaders named to a council to advise Trump on manufacturing growth.
JPMorgan Chase
The bank said it has reached out to employees on sponsored visas who could be affected by the executive order. CEO Jamie Dimon is on Trump's business and economic council.
"We want every one of you to know of our unwavering commitment to the dedicated people working here at JPMorgan Chase (JPM)," the statement said.
Trip Advisor CEO Stephen Kaufer
Trip Advisor's (TRIP) CEO wrote in a Linkedin post that Trump's immigration ban is "not only heartless and discriminatory, but also against the principles that make our country great."
Kaufer also said in a tweet that "We need to do more, not less, to help refugees," and said the action was "wrong on humanitarian grounds, legal grounds, and won't make us 'safer.'" In a separate tweet, he called out Republican lawmakers: "You can't sit this one out."
We need to do more, not less, to help refugees. Trumps action was wrong on humanitarian grounds, legal grounds, and won't make us "safer."

Chorus CEO Dick Costolo
Chorus CEO and former Twitter (TWTR, Tech30) chief executive Costolo called Trump a "a coward" on Saturday.
Salesforce executive Vala Afshar
Afshar tweeted a list of U.S. tech companies that were founded by immigrants, including Apple (AAPL, Tech30), Google (GOOG) and IBM (IBM, Tech30).
US tech companies founded by 1st/2nd generation immigrants 🇺🇸AppleGoogleFacebookAmazonOracleIBMUberYahooEMCeBayAT&TTeslaReddit

Y Combinator cofounder Paul Graham
Graham said, "This is a good time to remember that without immigration the U.S. will only have 5% of the top people in each field."
This is a good time to remember that without immigration the US will only have 5% of the top people in each field. https://t.co/px0bA0Ou9x

Y Combinator president Sam Altman
Altman criticized Trump's move in a blog post. He called on tech executives to publicly speak out against Trump's executive order "at a minimum."
Time to Take a Stand: https://t.co/xHs5fV6PYP

LinkedIn CEO Jeff Weiner
Weiner said "all ethnicities should have access to opportunity, calling it a "founding principle" of the United States.
40% of Fortune 500 founded by immigrants or their children. All ethnicities should have access to opportunity -- founding principle of U.S.

Yelp CEO Jeremy Stoppelman
Stoppelman called it a "sad day" for America.
Agreed. Sad day for USA. https://t.co/SikAaNVeAm

Investor Chris Sacca
"Shark Tank" star and tech investor Chris Sacca promised to match up to $50,000 worth of donations to the American Civil Liberties Union.
I can barely keep up with the replies. Thank. You. All. 🇺🇸But it's clear we're gonna need a bigger boat...So I'll match up to $50k. https://t.co/R3ttnbwgMV

Box CEO Aaron Levie
Levie also promised to donate to the ACLU and called Trump's actions "immoral."
On every level -moral, humanitarian, economic, logical, etc.- this ban is wrong and is completely antithetical to the principles of America.

Path CEO Dave Morin
Morin called it "one of the weakest decisions in American history."
In the long term, today will reflect one of the weakest decisions in American history.

Salesforce CEO Mark Benioff
Benioff retweeted anti-ban sentiments before posting his own thoughts.
When we close our hearts & stop loving other people as ourselves (MK 12:31) we forget who we truly are---a light unto the nations. #noban

Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg
Zuckerberg was quick to lambast the immigrant ban in a Facebook post Friday.

Tesla CEO Elon Musk
Musk called the ban "not the best way to address the country's challenges."
The blanket entry ban on citizens from certain primarily Muslim countries is not the best way to address the country's challenges

Foursquare
Foursquare said in a series of tweets Monday that it opposes Trump's immigration order. "At their core, our company, products, community and country are rooted in diversity & inclusion," the company said.
We @Foursquare oppose the executive order on immigration. It's against American openness to people seeking a better, safer or freer life 1/4

21st Century Fox
In an internal memo, Executive Chairman Lachlan Murdoch and CEO James Murdoch said they "value diversity and believe immigration is an essential part of America's strength."
"Moreover, as a company that is driven by creativity and innovation, we recognize the unique perspective offered by our many people who came to the U.S. in search of the opportunity for unfettered self-expression," they said.
Skift Co-Founder Jason Clampet
Clampet said in Skift's newsletter that travel industry leaders "have to figure out how we move from here, and the biggest role we have is to fight for the right of free movement of people — ALL of us, every color, every race, every orientation — in and out of America and beyond, and the future of a connected world outside of the neo-isolationist bubbles."
WPP CEO Martin Sorrell
The CEO of the British advertising company told CNN that it was too early to judge the full impact of the ban. But he said his gut reaction was that "this sort of restriction is unfair, or has unfair consequences on innocent people."
Rakuten CEO Hiroshi Mikitani
The chief of the Japanese e-commerce company tweeted that he was "very sad to see what is happening now in the U.S." Evoking his family's connections to the U.S., Mikitani said it is "wrong as a human being to uniformly discriminate based on religion and nationality." Rakuten will support its Muslim staff members, he said.
My dad is crying in the heaven He went to Harvard, Stanford and Yale. He was so proud and I am too. Now I am really crying.

--CNNMoney's Dylan Byers, Nina dos Santos, Matt Egan and Chris Isidore and CNN's James Frater contributed to this report.
Telecommuting is also a good way to attract talent. And studies show it boosts employee engagement. At some companies, like Dell, it's now considered a core business strategy.
So it's not surprising that more employers -- from large corporations to government agencies to start-ups -- are touting telecommuting options as a key benefit.
 3 reasons your boss doesn't want you to work from home ... and why she's wrong
The job site FlexJobs has compiled its annual list of top 100 employers for telecommuting jobs -- culled from the site's database of 47,000 companies.
Those 100 employers span several industries -- from health to IT to education, finance and government.
For instance, online educational program provider K12 had listed a posting seeking a full-time speech language pathologist. Healthcare insurer Humana was seeking a Medicare Risk Adjustment coding educator. And IT services provider and government contractor CACI International was looking to hire a video systems engineer and federal background investigator to vet candidates for sensitive government projects.
While the top 100 employers offer a mix of full-time, part-time and freelance positions, these 20 offered the most full-time job postings in the past year, according to FlexJobs:
1. UnitedHealth Group
2. Dell
3. U.S. Department of Agriculture
4. Xerox
5. Humana
6. IBM
7. CyberCoders
8. SAP
9. Salesforce
10. IT Pros
11. Allergan
12. Anthem
13. K12
14. PAREXEL
15. CSRA
16. CACI International
17. Kelly Services
18. Wells Fargo
19. Robert Half International
20. CSI Companies
"I recognize that there is potential for disruption, and especially to some of our people and their families," the Goldman Sachs (GS) boss said in the voicemail, a transcript of which the bank provided to CNNMoney.
Like other global banks, Goldman has a significant presence in the Middle East. The Wall Street firm has offices in Israel, Qatar, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates -- none of which are part of the ban.
Blankfein said Goldman executives will "work to minimize such disruption to the extent we can within the law and are focused on supporting our colleagues and their families who may be affected."
 The tech firms fighting Trump's travel ban
In a subtle rebuke to Trump, Blankfein also quoted from Goldman's business principles that preach the importance of diversity.
"We must attract, retain and motivate people from many backgrounds and perspectives. Being diverse is not optional; it is what we must be," Blankfein quoted the principles as saying.
"Now is a fitting time to reflect on those words," the CEO said.
Interestingly, a former Goldman employee is said to have played a role in the Trump travel ban: Steve Bannon. Trump's chief strategist worked at Goldman in the 1980s as an M&A banker and has since emerged as a critic of Wall Street. Bannon was among the senior White House advisers who helped interpret the meaning of the executive order amid widespread confusion in the government, sources told CNN.
Bannon is one of several former Goldman execs who Trump has tapped for senior roles in his administration, including treasury secretary nominee Steven Mnuchin and top economic adviser Gary Cohn.
Goldman is the latest global company to raise concern over Trump's travel ban.
The response has been the loudest from Silicon Valley, where Lyft donated $1 million to the ACLU, Google launched a $4 million fund that will also partly benefit ACLU, Airbnb offered free housing to those impacted and a slew of executives donated money to fighting the travel ban.
 Companies and execs speak out on Trump travel ban
Elsewhere, Starbucks (SBUX) announced plans to hire 10,000 refugees over five years and General Electric (GE) CEO Jeff Immelt said in a blog post that he shares the "concern" felt by his employees.
JPMorgan Chase  (JPM)CEO Jamie Dimon pledged "unwavering commitment to the dedicated people" who work at the bank and said the company has reached out to impacted employees.
Morgan Stanley (MS) CEO James Gorman sent an email to all employees Sunday afternoon saying he is "concerned" for employees who may be impacted by the new U.S. travel restrictions.
Gorman didn't expressly say he opposes the travel ban, but the Australia native said Morgan Stanley "immensely" values the contributions of "all our employees from all over the world."
--CNNMoney's Jill Disis and Cristina Alesci contributed to this report.
Travel stocks were also under pressure early Monday. International Airlines Group, the owner of British Airways and Iberia, was down 1.7%, while Air France-KLM  (AFLYY)shed 2%. Hotel operator Accor (ACCYY) dropped 1.6%.
The controversial order has been publicly criticized by top corporate leaders -- especially those from the tech industry.
Starbucks (SBUX) said it would hire 10,000 refugees over five years in response to the ban. General Electric (GE) and JPMorgan Chase (JPM) have also expressed concerns about how the order will affect their employees.
2. Volkswagen is back: Volkswagen (VLKAF) has toppled Toyota (TM) as the world's top-selling automaker, despite the massive fallout from its emission rigging scandal.
Toyota said Monday it sold 10.2 million vehicles worldwide in 2016, falling short of the 10.3 million vehicles Volkswagen delivered.
Before the Bell newsletter: Key market news. In your inbox. Subscribe now!
3. Stock market movers -- Vodafone, Apple: Vodafone (VOD) is trading more than 3% higher in London after talks about merging its India business with local rival Idea Cellular.
Apple (AAPL, Tech30) shares took a hit premarket trading ahead its results report on Tuesday.
4. Earnings and economics: The U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis will release December personal income and spending data at 8:30 a.m. ET. December pending home sales figures will follow at 10:00 a.m. ET.
Germany will publish its inflation data at 10 a.m. ET.
5. Global market overview: European markets were down in early trading. Asian markets ended the session mixed.
Markets in China are closed for most of the week because of Chinese New Year.
The Dow Jones industrial average hit the 20,000 point milestone last week, closing at 20,094 points on Friday. The S&P 500 and the Nasdaq ended the week flat.
Download CNN MoneyStream for up-to-the-minute market data and news
6. Coming this week:
Monday - U.S. pending home sales index Tuesday - Fed meeting begins; Last day for Obamacare open enrollment; Apple (AAPL, Tech30), Nintendo (NTDOF), Aetna (AET), ExxonMobil (XOM), Under Armour (UA) and UPS (UPS) report earnings Wednesday - Facebook (FB, Tech30) earnings; Auto sales report Thursday - Amazon (AMZN, Tech30) and Chipotle (CMG) earnings Friday - U.S. jobs report
The refugee hiring proposal, Schultz wrote, will begin with a focus on people who have served with U.S. troops as interpreters and support personnel.
 GE's Jeff Immelt shares employee 'concern' over Trump travel ban
Schultz also reiterated Starbucks' (SBUX) support for the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, or DACA, which helps undocumented immigrants who were brought to the United States as children get driver's licenses, enroll in college and secure jobs. The program was created by President Obama through an executive order in 2012.
And Schultz said the company is "ready to help and support our Mexican customers, partners and their families" should any proposed trade sanctions, immigration restrictions and taxes affect their businesses.
 These companies wouldn't exist if it weren't for immigrants
"We are in business to inspire and nurture the human spirit, one person, one cup and one neighborhood at a time," Schultz wrote. "That will not change. You have my word on that."
Schultz is the latest business executive to weigh in on the travel ban. Earlier Sunday, General Electric CEO Jeff Immelt wrote to employees that he shared their "concern" over the order, and added that GE has many employees from the countries named in the ban.
Several tech executives have also publicly denounced the travel ban.
"We are a very global team and we will stand together as the global political situation continues to evolve," Immelt said.
 Trump launches manufacturing initiative with business leaders
Immelt is one of 28 business leaders named to a council last week that will advise Trump on manufacturing growth.
Another one of those executives, Tesla CEO Elon Musk, has previously called the ban "not the best way to address the country's challenges."
Musk tweeted to his nearly 7 million Twitter followers on Sunday asking for suggestions on "specific amendments" to the ban. He added that he would "seek advisory council consensus" and present ideas to Trump.
Please read immigration order. Lmk specific amendments. Will seek advisory council consensus & present to President. https://t.co/qLpbsP4lEk

Several tech executives have publicly denounced the travel ban.
Uber CEO Travis Kalanic called the ban "unjust" in a Facebook post on Sunday, and said his company would "urge the government to reinstate the right of U.S. residents to travel."
Uber had earlier been criticized for what many saw as an inappropriate response to the ban.
Kalanick, who along with Musk is a member of another economic council giving advice to Trump, said he would use his position on the council to "stand up for what's right."
JPMorgan Chase also weighed in on the ban Sunday. The company released a statement saying it has reached out to employees on sponsored visas who could be affected by the executive order.
"We want every one of you to know of our unwavering commitment to the dedicated people working here at JPMorgan Chase," the statement read.
Like Kalanick and Musk, JPMorgan Chase CEO Jamie Dimon is also on the president's business and economic council.
Omidyar was among the first tech executives to publicly chide Trump's decision to ban immigration from seven majority-Muslim nations -- Iran, Iraq, Libya, Somalia, Sudan, Syria and Yemen -- affecting an estimated 134 million people.
He called Trump's executive order "simple bigotry."
We already have extreme vetting. Trump's order is simple bigotry. #MuslimBan https://t.co/6oVeg0Ml1z
Trump's anti-immigration tone sparked angry statements across the business community, particularly in tech. Execs and commentators called out the important contributions immigrants have made to the American economy.
A large number of companies whose brands are household names were built by immigrants.
Yahoo co-founder Jerry Yang is from Taiwan. Alexander Graham Bell, who invented the telephone, built the company that morphed into AT&T and Verizon. He was Scottish.
The late Andrew Grove, who transformed Intel into a global giant, was Hungarian. Google's (GOOG) Sergey Brin was born in Russia. Procter & Gamble's (PG) co-founders were from England and Ireland.
A slew of other corporate powerhouses were built by the children of immigrants.
Amazon (AMZN, Tech30) creator Jeff Bezos is the son of a Cuban father. Brothers Walt and Roy Disney -- of Disney (DIS) -- were born to a Canadian father. And both parents of the brothers who built the world famous McDonald's (MCD) burger chain were immigrants from Ireland.
Facebook will report quarterly results on Wednesday and expectations are high. Analysts are hoping to see $27.3 billion in sales for the whole of 2016, a more than 52% increase from 2015. Still, Facebook (FB, Tech30) is working hard to keep its huge audience coming back for more. It announced plans to revamp its trending topics section to combat fake news. It also began testing a new feature, similar to Snapchat Stories, that allows users to post temporary videos.
It will be Amazon's (AMZN, Tech30) turn in the hot seat on Thursday, with sales for 2016 expected to reach $137 billion. Amazon made history last week by becoming the first streaming service to receive a Best Picture Oscar nomination for its film 'Manchester By the Sea.' Earlier this month, the company announced it would create 100,000 U.S. jobs.
2. Jobs report: Friday marks the first jobs report since President Donald Trump's inauguration -- and he's got big shoes to fill. In Former President Barack Obama's last full month in office, unemployment clocked in at a low 4.7%. December also marked a record 75 straight months of job growth.
Trump has made job creation a priority, saying in his inaugural address that he plans to put "America First" by keeping jobs in the U.S. On Friday, Trump released an initiative to grow American manufacturing jobs. It's part of his broader promise to create 25 million new jobs over the next decade, which would be the most by any American president.
3. Fed meets to discuss rates: The Federal Reserve is meeting on Tuesday to discuss interest rates. Fed Chair Janet Yellen made waves in December when she announced the Fed would hike key interest rates 0.25 percentage points. It was the first rate hike in a year, reflecting the Fed's confidence in the improving U.S. economy.
The Fed may also discuss Trump's economic policies. Before Trump took office, Fed officials said there was "considerable uncertainty" surrounding his financial plans. They also said the U.S. economy could grow faster under Trump's policies, which could lead to more rate hikes.
4. Obamacare on life support: Tuesday is the last day for Americans to enroll in coverage under Obamacare. Earlier this month, the government reported that more than 11.5 million Americans had signed up for 2017 coverage. But within hours of his inauguration, Trump signed an executive order to start rolling back Obamacare. On Friday, the Trump administration halted up to $5 million worth of advertising for Obamacare.
Trump isn't the only one dealing blows to the Affordable Care Act. Health care company Aetna (AET), which will report quarterly earnings on Tuesday, pulled out of 11 Obamacare exchanges last year. Aetna claimed the decision was strictly a business move fueled by mounting losses. But a judge ruled this month that Aetna's real reason for dropping Obamacare was to avoid judicial scrutiny over its merger with Humana (HUM).
5. Coming this week:
Monday - Pending home sales index
Tuesday - Fed meeting begins; Last day for Obamacare open enrollment; Apple (AAPL, Tech30), Nintendo (NTDOF), Aetna (AET), ExxonMobil (XOM), Under Armour (UA) and UPS (UPS) report earnings
Wednesday - Facebook (FB, Tech30) earnings; Auto sales report
Thursday - Amazon (AMZN, Tech30) and Chipotle (CMG) earnings
Friday - Jobs report
Correction: An earlier version of this story incorrectly stated that Rex Tillerson had received Senate confirmation to become secretary of state. Tillerson was approved by the Senate Foreign Relations Committee but not the full Senate.
Instead, Mays wants Trump to stay focused on jobs.
Mays is a Republican judge in Lee County, Kentucky, which went overwhelmingly (81%) for Trump.
Voter fraud is "the least thing I'm concerned about right now," Mays said. "[I'm] more concerned about the economy, which I think he is going to live on up to as president."
Trump claims that 3 million to 5 million people may have voted illegally in the election. There is no evidence of that.
But Trump won't let it go. He tweeted about it again on Friday and is considering ordering a "major investigation." Trump did lose the popular vote to Hillary Clinton by about 2.9 million votes.
Numerous Trump voters in Kentucky told CNNMoney this week that they are energized by his presidency and don't understand why he would want to second guess his victory with talk of voter fraud.
Before the election, polls showed that many Republicans were worried about an unfair election. Trump warned often of a "rigged" election. Then Trump won.
Another Lee County resident Leighandra Shouse put it this way: "I don't care" about voter fraud. The election "is over. Said and done ... I have more important things to worry about."
 Most Americans not benefiting from Dow 20,000
Shouse lives with her husband, three daughters and seven dogs in a modest cabin in the Kentucky hills. It's not uncommon to see her husband covered in paint and dust from his masonry job. He drives nearly two hours each day because he can't find work that pays over $11 an hour anywhere near their home.
It's tough to make ends meet and the couple are almost always behind on bills. She says she watches TV and wonders what it's like to be one of those people who go to Starbucks. She isn't even sure where the nearest Starbucks is.
The Shouses voted for Trump because of the economy.
"I think most of America lives like we do. That's why the election went like it did," she says.
Trump has given her hope that someone is finally going to improve the lives of working America. She knows her family is "poverty stricken," but they aren't on government aid.
Her daughters work two jobs. She runs a small painting business. They believe in hard work, but they also think toiling this much shouldn't leave families like theirs struggling with how they will pay bills.
"I think [Trump] is as frustrated as we are," Shouse says.
 U.S. economy grew disappointing 1.6% in 2016
Trump has vowed to create 25 million new jobs in the next decade. It would be the most of any president in U.S. history.
The Chicago Tribune ran an editorial earlier this week praising the new president for his economic policy: "What Trump got right on Day 1: The jobs agenda."
But by the end of the week, as the president shifted his focus to voter fraud and building a wall along the Mexican border, Trump's approval rating had fallen to 36%.
Donna Coomer agrees with the Tribune. She thinks Trump has "already done more in a week than Obama did in eight years."
A Christian, Coomer believes Trump was "prayed into office" and that he will bring money and jobs back to the U.S., even to her small town of Beattyville, Kentucky. Coomer manages the local Valero gas station in Beattyville. The town used to be a thriving hub with a railroad that ran right through town carrying loads and loads of coal.
But almost all of the coal jobs are gone now. So are most of the oil jobs. Even the private prison in Lee County has closed, eliminating hundreds of jobs.
Coomer voted for Trump. She thinks "it's possible" there were people who voted illegally. But it is hardly at the top of her concern list.
"Have you ever tried to live on $7.25 an hour?" she asked the CNNMoney team. She raised three children on the minimum wage. She doesn't want her grandkids to live the same life. That is what she thinks about when she starts work before dawn.
She prays President Trump remembers the minimum wage workers too.
-- CNN's Poppy Harlow and Haley Draznin contributed to this article.
Buffett's investing expertise has won him the title of the Oracle of Omaha -- his hometown -- and when asked whether he'd pick a different career path if he had to do it all over, Buffett gave a firm, "No."
"I've had fun in my 20s, my 30s, now I'm 86, and I'm having fun," he said. "I'd do the same thing...Don't say you're just marking time until you get older. I've told people that's like saving up sex for your old age. It is not a good idea."
Buffett left the Columbia students with this piece of advice: "Take the job that you would take if you didn't need a job."
On vaccines...
President Trump raised fears that his administration will stoke anti-vaccination myths when he met with Robert Kennedy -- a known vaccination skeptic.
Microsoft co-founder Gates, who invests heavily in philanthropic health care efforts, vowed to stand up against efforts to hinder vaccinations.
"I'm a little surprised we have to stick up for them...But particularly in today's media, the rumors can get out ahead of the facts," he said, adding that research has shown that the benefits of vaccination are "unequivocal."
Buffett added that he admires the Gates' dedication to encouraging vaccination.
"When Melinda [Gates] is in Africa and she's holding a little baby, she is actually thinking, 'This kid needs to be vaccinated,'" Buffett said. "I feel the same way about the kid, but what I'm really thinking is, 'Is he going to pee on me?'"

On foreign aid...
One thing Gates is concerned about is how committed Trump is to maintaining foreign aid programs that he argues are a major force in global health.
"This administration is new enough, we don't know how their priorities will come out," Gates said. "There are things like foreign aid...that every time there's new leadership, we have to go in to articulate the benefits."
"Now, I think there's a lot of intensity to make sure that message goes out," he added.
He pointed to a malaria initiative and AIDS relief aid -- which were started under George W. Bush's administration and continued under President Obama -- as examples of programs he hopes Trump will see through.
"If we draw inward [on that spending] we will hurt progress and there will be millions of lives lost because of it," Gates said.
On immigration...
Buffett isn't a fan of the anti-immigration rhetoric that's been spearheaded by Trump.
"This country has been blessed by immigrants, and you can take them from any country you want, and they've come here and they've found something that unleashed the potential that their home country did not," he said.
On political donations...
Gates and Buffett are major philanthropists. They started the Giving Pledge in 2009. It encourages billionaires to commit to giving away the majority of their wealth before they die. One thing they're not fans of spending money on, however, is politics.
"We have a podium of a certain sort," Buffett said. "The influence of money in politics is really bad news for this country."
"We've chosen not to have that be a huge way we're spending our money. The money is being saved for, not the megaphone, but the work of the foundation," Gates said, referring to the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation.
Despite their commitment to keeping their dollars out of politics. Buffett doesn't stay mum on the topic. He was an avid supporter of Hillary Clinton.
One thing is certain. The U.S. cannot meet consumers' demand for avocados with domestic goods.
"I'd say it's all but impossible for California to get anywhere close to meeting the demand," Bellamore said.
That leaves the cost of a bowl of guacamole susceptible to border politics.
Trump raised the possibility Thursday of taxing all Mexican imports 20% in order to pay for construction of a border wall. White House spokesman Sean Spicer later said the tax was one of several strategies under consideration.
Mexican avocado growers, however, are confident that neither a wall nor a tax will keep avocados out of U.S. grocery stores.
"We remain confident that the trade policy between our two governments will continue to support U.S. consumers' growing love of avocados," the Avocado Producers and Exporting Packers Association of Mexico said in a statement Friday.
A State Department report on the pipeline that was issued under the Obama administration found that there would be 3,900 direct construction jobs if it was built over one year, or 1,950 if the work was spread over two years.
 Trump advances controversial oil pipelines with executive action
Once the pipeline opens it would require only 35 full-time permanent jobs to run it, and 15 full-time temporary jobs, according to the state department report. TransCanada, the company seeking to build the pipeline, does not dispute those numbers.
The company and other supporters argue that the pipeline would create jobs indirectly for companies that sell products and services used to build the pipeline. The State Department report estimates that there would be a total of 42,000 indirect jobs created, with a total of $2 billion in wages. That comes to an average of about about $47,000 in wages per job.
TransCanada also pointed out that there would be benefits beyond the jobs and wages, including "significant property tax revenues, as well as sales and use and other tax revenues, to counties and states along the proposed project route."
 How often do pipelines blow up
Trump insisted that his administration will demand that the pipeline is built with only U.S.-made pipe, further boosting American jobs.
"I am very insistent that if we are going to build pipelines in the United States, the pipes should be made in the United States," he said.
But the order only specifies that U.S. made pipe being required "to the maximum extent possible and to the extent permitted by law."
TransCanada did not commit to using U.S.-made pipe on the project.
"We are aware that the Secretary of Commerce will come up with a plan to implement the executive order," said TransCanada spokesperson Terry Cunha. "We will need time to review and analyze the plan when it is released to determine its impact to Keystone XL."
"This decision reeks of corporate greed. It is not based on sales, it is an another example of how good jobs are being shifted out of Canada for cheaper labor in Mexico and Unifor will not let it happen without a fight," said Unifor National President Jerry Dias. "There is no justification for layoffs at the CAMI facility."
"The CAMI announcement is a shining example of everything wrong with NAFTA," he added. "It must be re-negotiated."
The company says the decision to shift production of the Terrain was made years ago, but was publicly announced at the beginning of the year.
"We continue to work with our Unifor partners to manage through the adjustment," said GM spokesman Tom Wickham.
 On Mexico auto jobs, Trump misses the point. Most workers make parts, not cars
GM has been under pressure from President Trump about its Mexican plants.
"General Motors is sending Mexican made model of Chevy Cruze to U.S. car dealers-tax free across border," Trump tweeted. "Make in U.S.A. or pay big border tax!"
General Motors is sending Mexican made model of Chevy Cruze to U.S. car dealers-tax free across border. Make in U.S.A.or pay big border tax!
GM soon announced it would invest $1 billion in its U.S. plants, which would allow it to add or keep 7,000 jobs. It also said it would hire about 450 U.S. workers to build axles that are currently built by a Mexican supplier. Those moves won praise from Trump.
Thank you to General Motors and Walmart for starting the big jobs push back into the U.S.!
But GM is not shutting down any of its plants in Mexico, where it employs more than 15,000 workers.
On Tuesday Trump met with GM CEO Mary Barra, along with the heads of Ford (F) and Fiat Chrysler (FCAU) to talk about bringing jobs back from Mexico.
"Investors are underestimating the complexity of getting deals done. There are a lot of steps between saying it and doing it," Sandbrook said. "Things take a while. Shovel ready doesn't mean it gets done immediately. People need to be more realistic."
This is the third time CNNMoney has spoken with Sandbrook since the election. Trump's win has given the company's stock a significant boost, largely due to hopes that increased spending on roads and bridges will lead to a spike in demand for concrete.
On Election Day, shares of U.S. Concrete closed at just under $49. One week later, when CNNMoney first interviewed Sandbrook, the stock was trading at $56.25. By the time we spoke to Sandbrook again in mid-December, the stock was trading at about $65.
Shares hit an all-time high above $70 earlier this week after Trump reiterated his plans to build a wall on the border of Mexico. The stock has pulled back a bit since then. But it is still up more than 35% since Trump's win.
 Construction boom expected under Trump
Sandbrook joked that he's really happy to have a company named U.S. Concrete at a time like this. And he continues to be impressed by what he's heard from the new president so far.
"It is refreshing that a winning candidate is doing exactly what he said he would do. Unequivocally. He's quickly hit the ground running," Sandbrook said.
He added that he's confident that there will be a big increase in spending on infrastructure, even though it may take time to nail down the final details. But Sandbrook said he's encouraged by the bipartisan support for investing in infrastructure.
To that end, a group of eight Democratic senators proposed their own $1 trillion infrastructure plan earlier this week. Even Jerry Brown, the Democratic governor of California, praised Trump's plan in his state of the state address this week.
While Brown said he was concerned by Trump's "disturbing" rhetoric and the use of "alternative facts," he had no problem with the president's infrastructure plans.
 Here's how much Trump's border wall will cost
"The president has stated his firm intention to build, and build big," Brown said. "I say 'Amen to that, man! Amen to that, brother! We're there with you."
Sandbrook said statements like this are good to hear. But he concedes that getting an infrastructure plan through Congress still won't be a slam dunk. It will take time.
"I am optimistic that things will get done. There will be tax reform. There will be increased infrastructure spending. There will be regulatory reform," he said. "I am not worried about them not taking place."
"But how long will it take to enact and what is the final scope? That's still up in the air. But there will be changes. I am certain of that," Sandbrook added.
As for the wall? Sandbrook still thinks more details need to be fleshed out before he considers how his company could be part of any construction plans. U.S. Concrete sells its products to big builders. It's a subcontractor.
 CEO who voted for Trump likes what he sees so far
And even though a wall would be a tangible symbol of more anti-immigration polices under Trump, Sandbrook still isn't worried that there will be a big backlash from foreign companies.
Sandbrook points out that two international cement giants -- Mexico's Cemex (CX) and Swiss-based LafargeHolcim (HCMLF) -- have a significant number of workers in the U.S. They conceivably could play a role in -- and benefit financially from -- building a wall.
"If you have a quarry or cement plant in the U.S. you have American workers," Sandbrook said, adding that as long as the new administration encourages global giants to do business here, that should be good for the U.S. economy.
"America first means American workers. It doesn't preclude other companies from investing in the U.S. That's not the focus. Trump needs to be pro-worker, not anti-foreign investment," Sandbrook said.
The Democrat from Massachusetts said the website -- www.dol.gov/wellsfargo -- was "up and running" as of January 20, the day Trump was sworn in.
However, Stephen Barr, a Labor Department spokesman, told CNNMoney that the Wells Fargo page was taken down on January 9 while President Obama was still in office.
Barr, a four-year Labor Department veteran who called himself a "career civil servant," said he does not know why the page was removed nor whether it will go back up.
"The current administration has given no direction whatsoever here at the Department of Labor on anything regarding Wells Fargo," Barr said.
A search on the Internet Archive, a nonprofit digital library of archived web pages, shows that the page was available on December 21. However, the archive doesn't indicate precisely when the page was taken down.
Warren's office did not respond to questions over the discrepancy about when the site was removed.
Wells Fargo was unaware that the website had been taken down, a person familiar with the matter told CNNMoney. Wells Fargo declined to comment on the matter.
Click here to read an archived version of the page.
Wells Fargo's fake account scandal -- the bank fired 5,300 workers for creating as many as 2 million fake accounts -- has revealed a toxic sales culture and allegations it mistreated workers.
The Labor Department launched the website last September as a way for Wells Fargo workers to flag potential violations and learn about their rights.
"Taking down this website enables Wells Fargo to escape full responsibility for its fraudulent actions and the Department to shirk its outstanding obligations to American workers," Warren wrote.
In addition to launching the site, the Labor Department under former President Obama opened a "top-to-bottom review" of Wells Fargo cases, complaints and violations. That review included an inquiry into both open and closed whistleblower complaints against Wells Fargo.
The Labor Department's focus on Wells Fargo followed a CNNMoney investigation on former employees who said they were fired after trying to put a stop to illegal practices by calling the bank's ethics hotline.
Wells Fargo (WFC) recently admitted that a review of its ethics hotline has uncovered evidence that at least some of these whistleblower retaliation claims may have merit.
A spokeswoman for the bank emphasized that "there is no place for retaliation at Wells Fargo."
The Labor Department was also investigating claims from hourly Wells Fargo workers who said the bank's pressure-cooker culture forced them to work late without overtime pay. CNNMoney spoke to numerous former Wells Fargo employees who alleged wage theft.
Wells Fargo has said that its employees are compensated for all hours worked, including overtime.
 Wells Fargo admits to signs of worker retaliation
Warren wrote that she hopes the Labor Department "under President Trump" will make sure Wells Fargo workers cheated out of wages or illegally retaliated against will be provided "all of the remedies available" under current law.
The letter from Warren asked Labor Department officials to respond to several questions by February 3, including whether the agency will reinstate the Wells Fargo website and if the investigation will continue despite the transition of power.
There are signs that the investigation may have hit some recent obstacles.
In mid-December, the Labor Department wrote a letter saying that an outside attorney representing Wells Fargo tried to hamper the investigation, The Wall Street Journal reported. The letter said that in addition to denying access to records and interviews, the lawyer said she could be part of the new Trump administration, the Journal reported.
Warren asked the Labor Department to expand its investigation to look into how Wells Fargo employees told The Wall Street Journal that a 24-hour heads up ahead of internal branch investigations gave them time to shred paperwork and forge documents.
COO Kevin Johnson said during the company's earnings call with analysts on Thursday that the long lines at peak hours are scaring off some customers who may have not already placed their order.
"This congestion resulted in some number of customers who either entered the store or considered visiting a Starbucks store and then did not complete a transaction," he said.
The word "congestion" was mentioned eight times during the call. CEO Howard Schultz said that there were a "growing number of stores being challenged to keep up with the increased volume demands" from mobile ordering.
 Your morning cup of coffee is getting more expensive
That's a problem. Starbucks shares fell 4% Friday, mainly because sales growth in U.S. stores failed to meet Wall Street's expectations.
Schultz, who will be stepping down as CEO later this year and will be replaced by Johnson, conceded that having too much demand is a good problem to have, but he stressed that the company will figure out a way to address the issue of long lines.
"We are now laser focused on fixing this problem, but the nature of it, too much demand, is an operational challenge we have solved before, and I can assure you we will solve again."
Johnson, who was formerly the CEO of telecom equipment company Juniper Networks (JNPR) and a long-time executive at Microsoft (MSFT, Tech30) and IBM (IBM, Tech30) before that, said the company is also taking action to solve the issues created by more mobile ordering.
He said the company will create new roles for workers to specifically work on mobile orders and is also testing the use of text message notifications to let consumers know exactly when a mobile order is ready to be picked up.
Johnson needs to fix this problem quickly in order to reassure investors that the best days for Starbucks are not behind it.
Keep in mind that Schultz stepped down as CEO once before back in 2000. And that didn't turn out too well.
The company experienced a series of setbacks without Schultz at the helm. It expanded too rapidly. The introduction of more food offerings didn't help either. Starbucks suffered from a lack of focus on the core product -- coffee.
 Can the future CEO of Starbucks escape the shadow of Schultz?
But all was forgiven once Schultz returned as CEO in 2008. The stock has surged since then and is not far from its all-time high.
Fortunately, Wall Street has faith in Johnson. It also helps that Schultz will remain the company's executive chairman. He will focus more on expanding the company's premium Starbucks Reserve brand and its Reserve Roastery & Tasting Room stores.
Analysts don't seem overly concerned about the soft fourth quarter results either.
"This is not demonstrative of a company in trouble, or even a company doing the wrong things, it is simply a reflection that Starbucks is a more mature business," said Neil Saunders, CEO of retail research firm Conlumino, in a report Thursday.
Nomura analyst Mark Kalinowski added that the mobile growing pains could soon be a thing of the past. He wrote in a report Friday that mobile payments could account for 30% of all transactions at company-owned U.S. stores by the end of the year.
 Schultz says he's 'emotionally prepared' to step back this time
Still, investors will be keeping a close eye on how sales at Starbucks stores in the U.S. fare going forward.
Despite impressive growth overseas, particularly in China, Starbucks faces a lot more competition at home from the likes of Dunkin' Donuts (DNKN), McDonald's (MCD), and Tim Hortons, which is owned by Burger King parent Restaurant Brands (QSR).
German conglomerate JAB Holding is also building a massive U.S. coffee empire.
JAB now owns Caribou Coffee, Peet's, Stumptown and K-Cup maker Keurig Green Mountain. It also owns doughnut chain Krispy Kreme and the bagel franchise Einstein Noah.
So Johnson and Schultz will have to figure out a way to quickly cut the wait times at Starbucks stores or they risk losing customers to the legion of other coffee chains that dot the American retail landscape.
 Remove car imports and and the trade gap with Mexico disappears
But the United States gets a whole lot more than just cars and parts from its southern neighbor. It is our third largest supplier of goods overall, according to the Office of the United States Trade Representative.
The imports include finished items that can hit store shelves or showrooms and parts that American manufacturers use to produce other goods, said Robert Lawrence, a professor of international trade and investment at Harvard's Kennedy School of Government. Mexican auto parts are found in virtually all 11 million cars made in the United States. We also import a lot of oil from Mexico - about 200 million barrels in the first 11 months of 2016, at a cost of about $7 billion.
 A 20% Mexican tariff would pay for the wall. But it would hurt Americans
It's not clear whether Congress will go along with a tariff on Mexican goods, or whether Trump will go ahead with the threat. During his confirmation hearing last week, Steven Mnuchin, Trump's nominee to be treasury secretary, said he in no way wanted to impose a broad tariff on all Mexican goods, only a tax aimed at companies that shift jobs south of the border. "That couldn't be further from anything he'd possibly consider," he said when he was asked about a tax on Mexican goods. And the White House soon walked back Spicer's remark on Thursday.
But even the threat of an additional levy on products can send shivers through American firms. And it would interfere with the vast supply network between the two countries, Lawrence said.

American companies import a lot of computer and electronic equipment, from monitors to telephones to insulated wires to electric generators. These are among the top 30 products brought in from Mexico, according to the United Nations Commodity Trade Statistics Database.
Another major source of Mexican imports are appliances, including refrigerators, air conditioners and centrifuges.
One of Trump's biggest public relations victories since the election was getting Carrier to keep an Indianapolis furnace factory from moving to Mexico, saving about 800 jobs.
But Carrier and its parent, United Technologies (UTX), is still going ahead with plans to move about 1,300 other Indiana jobs to Mexico.
Mexico also grew $21 billion of agricultural products shipped and eaten in the U.S. in 2015, making it our second largest supplier.
Among the most popular are avocados, tomatoes and berries. We bring in $4.8 billion of fresh vegetables, as well as $1.7 billion in snack foods and $1.4 billion in processed fruit and vegetables, according to the nation's trade representative.
And then there's that Mexican beer that Americans love so much. Corona. Modelo Especial. Dos Equis. The U.S. imported $2.8 billion of beer from Mexico in 2015, according to the U.N. database, making it the 15th most popular import.
This vast array of items could be subject to a 20% levy if Trump makes good on his threat.
"The notion that a 20% tariff is a way of forcing Mexico to pay for the wall, it's just a falsehood. It's a way of forcing American consumers to pay for the wall," says Edward Alden, a trade expert at the Council on Foreign Relations.
Besides driving up prices for consumers, a tariff could also hurt American jobs -- 40% of the parts in a typical Mexican product originate in the United States, according to the Commerce Department, so cutting down on those imports could cut down on demand for those American parts.
-- CNNMoney's Patrick Gillespie contributed to this report
 What is a sanctuary city?
"Local governments seeking to protect their immigrant communities from federal overreach have every right to do so," New York State Attorney General Eric Schneiderman said in a press release this week. "Any attempt to bully local governments into abandoning policies that have proven to keep our cities safe is not only unconstitutional, but threatens the safety of our citizens."
So how much power does the President really have to cut off funding?
Trump's executive order says it will "ensure that jurisdictions that fail to comply with applicable Federal law do not receive Federal funds, except as mandated by law."
That alone poses a problem because it's unconstitutional to use federal funds to force local agencies to cooperate with the federal government, said Peter Markowitz, an immigration expert at Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law in New York. "The Constitution prohibits the federal government from conditioning funding in order to coerce local agencies into federal service," he said.
 Here's how much Trump's border wall will cost
And the President's power to withhold federal funds from the states is limited without the help of Congress. "The Constitution gives that power to the legislature," he added.
Which funds could the federal government cut?
According to immigration law experts, there are at least three federally funded programs that can be blocked without Congressional approval: The Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant Program (JAG) the Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) and the State Criminal Alien Assistance Program (SCAAP), all of which are administered by the Department of Justice.
--JAG funds go toward a variety of state and local law enforcement expenses, including court, crime prevention and education programs. They're also used for corrections, drug treatment and other programs. In 2016, $274.9 million in JAG funds were allocated to the U.S. states and territories, according to the Bureau of Justice Statistics.
--COPS funds are aimed at initiatives to build trust between communities and law enforcement agencies. The grants go toward developing innovative policing strategies and providing training and technical assistance to community members, local government leaders and law enforcement. There are currently over 2,000 active grants, totaling $1.4 billion, according to the COPS website.
--SCAAP funds a program that helps local police departments with incarcerated undocumented immigrants fund their corrections facilities and the salaries of their officers. Sanctuary cities will cooperate with federal authorities under specific circumstances and will hold suspected criminal immigrants in their jails if there is a judicial warrant for their arrest.
In fiscal 2016, the SCAAP program was awarded a $210 million budget. It appears from documents on the Office of Justice Programs site that no funds were requested for 2017 -- indicating an intent to end the program.
However, since Wednesday's executive action included language protecting federal grants "deemed necessary for law enforcement purposes by the Attorney General or the Secretary" it remains unclear how the administration intends to block these funds.
"The President has this all upside down," said Markowitz, who argues that sanctuary cities create safer communities. "He says that these sanctuary cities make us more unsafe when in fact it's the opposite. When immigrants see the justice system as the gateway to jail and deportation they stop cooperating and that's when witnesses disappear, making cases difficult to solve."
Which cities could actually see their funds cut?
Hundreds of cities, counties and states across the country are considered sanctuary cities.
To maintain funding, these jurisdictions must be in compliance with a law known as U.S. Code 1373, which says that state and local governments can't prohibit employees from sharing information regarding the citizenship or immigration status of any person.
According to Leon Fresco, the former head of the U.S. Department of Justice's Office of Immigration Litigation under the Obama administration, the Justice Department could block the funds without having to get approval from Congress if it asserts a city is not in compliance with this law. But then it must refer each jurisdiction's case to the non-partisan Office of the Inspector General (OIG) to make a final analysis. Because of the sheer number of jurisdictions, it's a process that could take months or years for approval, he said.
 How immigrants can revive America's blighted neighborhoods
Immigration experts added this would be a difficult path for the administration to pursue since many states and cities are already in compliance with the law. "The narrative that has been out there is that these jurisdictions are standing up to the government and are out of compliance with the law, but in fact they are within the law," said Kemi Bello, a spokesperson for the Immigrant Legal Resource Center in San Francisco.
The government could issue new regulations that would redefine what it means for a jurisdiction to be non-compliant with 1373, said Fresco. The new definition would then be subject to a 30-day public response period. If it were to be implemented, Fresco said it would likely be challenged in court by cities, states and other civil rights advocates.
Will sanctuary cities stand their ground?
Several mayors from across the U.S. came out this week declaring that they will maintain their sanctuary city status.
"The idea that we do not cooperate with the federal government is simply at odds with the facts," Los Angeles mayor Eric Garcetti said in a press release Wednesday. "Splitting up families and cutting funding to any city — especially Los Angeles, where 40% of the nation's goods enter the U.S. at our port, and more than 80 million passengers traveled through our airport last year — puts the personal safety and economic health of our entire nation at risk. It is not the way forward for the United States."
 The steep cost of underemploying highly skilled immigrant
"I urge President Trump to revoke this Executive Order right away. If he does not, I will do everything in my power to fight it," said New York's Schneiderman in a press release.
A week earlier, the attorney general sent detailed guidelines to cities and counties across New York outlining the language they should use in order to ensure they were compliant with the law.
"We're going to stay a sanctuary city," Chicago mayor Rahm Emanuel declared at a press conference Wednesday. "There is no stranger among us...You are welcome in Chicago as you pursue the American Dream."
It reflects how slow the recovery has been for many Americans since the Great Recession, which ended in 2009.
Weak economic growth was a key reason behind President Trump's election. He promises to get growth up to 4% a year, something that hasn't happened since the late 1990s.
Trump's agenda to cut corporate and individual taxes, build more roads and bridges and cut away regulations have some optimistic that he can boost growth -- how much, is anyone's guess.
"This economy is starving for reform," says Joseph Brusuelas, chief economist at RSM, a consulting firm. Trump's tax, infrastructure and regulation reforms "are all poised to lift productivity and growth."
Brusuelas cautions that Trump's plans to use tariffs and potentially withdraw from a free trade deal could hurt growth if he follows through with them.
But so far many Americans like what they're hearing. The stock market has rallied to new all-time highs due, in large part, to optimism about Trump's economic plans. Consumer optimism also reached a 15-year high in December.
 The U.S. economy has added jobs for 75 straight months
Others aren't certain about Trump's impact on the economy. The Federal Reserve forecasts U.S. growth to hover around 2% for the next few years, though its leaders admit that could change with time.
A major problem plaguing the economy is something called productivity. It's growing at a slower pace than it used to, and that holds down wages and overall growth.
Low productivity does not mean Americans aren't working hard. Among many factors, It means the pace at which they're assembling more cars and making more widgets is slower.
The U.S. economy has made significant progress since the recession, especially in the job market. The unemployment rate peaked at 10% in 2009. It's now 4.7%. Many measures of the job market have also significantly improved.
Despite low growth, America has in fact grown for seven straight years -- a long time. It's just been slow.
"Bottom line, the year ends on a mediocre fashion, but policy is about to change," says Peter Boockvar, chief market analyst at the Lindsey Group, an economic advisory firm.
The Obama administration had a roughly $75 million contract with a private advertising firm to promote open enrollment, which began Nov. 1. The final $4 million to $5 million of television and radio ads were pulled.
Some television spots, however, could not be canceled and will continue to air. Also, open enrollment information remains available through the web site, emails, robo-dial calls, Twitter and other online sites. Agency personnel continue to answer all emails and phone calls related to enrollment questions.
An email stressing the final enrollment deadline was sent out by the federal exchange, healthcare.gov, on Friday. It noted that most consumers are eligible for subsidies and can find plans for $50 to $100.
Still, the move could dampen final enrollment numbers for 2017. Outreach is critical in the final days of the enrollment period to remind consumers -- particularly younger ones -- of the deadline. Sign ups typically surge during this time. A year ago, nearly 700,000 people selected plans a week before the final deadline.
More than 11.5 million people had signed up for coverage through the federal exchange and the 12 state-based exchanges, as of Dec. 24, according to federal data. That was 286,000 more than the comparable time a year ago.
 Obamacare remains popular, with 11.5 million sign ups so far
The Obama administration in October projected some 13.8 million people would sign up for plans during open enrollment, which began Nov. 1. Enrollment isn't final until consumers pay their first month's premium.
President Trump, however, has made it clear that he intends to dismantle the law as soon as possible. Hours after taking office, he signed an executive order aimed at weakening Obamacare. Congress has begun the process of repealing major provisions of the law, but remains divided over how to replace it.
 Trump issues executive order to start rolling back Obamacare
Even if lawmakers repeal parts of Obamacare soon, the program will likely remain in effect for another year or two to give government agencies and insurers time to adjust. The Trump administration has promised a "smooth transition" during this period.
Insurers, who are already skittish about participating in the exchanges next year, responded to the ad cancellation by stressing the importance of open enrollment.
"Every American deserves coverage, and open enrollment is the best opportunity people have to get coverage that gives them access to high-quality care," said Kristine Grow, spokeswoman for America's Health Insurance Plans, the industry's main lobbying group. "At a time when the individual market faces challenges, we need as many people as possible to participate - so that costs go down for everyone."
"Balancing out the risk pool is an important action that can be taken now to help stabilize the market, improve affordability, and send strong signals as health plans develop their products for 2018," she continued.
The advertising campaign, which was planned prior to the election, included promotions on television, as well as YouTube, Instagram, Facebook and the social gaming platform Twitch. Former HHS officials were focusing on getting more young adults to sign up since they are often healthier and offset the higher costs of older enrollees.
A source with knowledge of the matter told CNN on Friday that HHS pulled its ads from Facebook on Thursday.
The abrupt end to the advertising campaign did not affect the federal exchange website, healthcare.gov, which continues to operate and accept new applications. Also, the agency's website continues to direct viewers to enroll in "an affordable health plan" at healthcare.gov.
Former HHS officials and supporters of the law were angered by the Trump administration's move.
"The Trump administration's outrageous decision tonight to sabotage open enrollment will mean coverage could cost more next year and insurers could drop out of the marketplace," said Kevin Counihan, former CEO of Healthcare.gov. "Having health insurance is still law of the land. If the president and Republicans in Congress want to change that, they should come up with a plan and show it to the American people, rather than depriving Americans of the chance to sign up for coverage and financial assistance they remain eligible for."
Ron Pollack, executive director of health care advocacy group Families USA, called the action "mean-spirited," noting the ads were already paid for. "It belies President Trump's promise that he wants to make sure everybody gets health care," said Pollack.
 Federal agency website still praises Obamacare
The Obama administration boosted outreach efforts last fall in hopes of enticing more people to sign up for coverage, recognizing that enrollment was critical to the program's stability. HHS officials doubled down after Trump's victory, hoping that larger enrollment figures would make it harder for Republicans to repeal the landmark health reform law.
Younger consumers also make coverage decisions closer to the deadline, so these final reminders prompt them to sign up, said Leslie Dach, a former senior official at the agency.
In addition to the TV and online promotion, the agency was scheduled to send more than 10 million mailings, targeting people who were recently uninsured, recently lost coverage or sought coverage in the past through the federal exchange, Healthcare.gov, or a state Medicaid program.
The messaging focused on affordability, highlighting the availability of subsidies to lower- and moderate-income enrollees, and on deadlines to enroll. Also, it reminded consumers about the penalty for remaining uninsured, which is $695 or 2.5% of income, whichever is higher.
The Afro-Portuguese themed restaurant chain famous for its flame-grilled, peri-peri sauce covered chicken began life in Johannesburg in 1987. Since then it has become one of South Africa's biggest corporate success stories.
On Inauguration Day and beyond, even if you've never sat at one of our tables, you're welcome to stand with us. #EveryoneIsWelcome pic.twitter.com/cn24LOzN2t

President Trump is a fan of fast food. And his pick for labor secretary, Andrew Puzder, is CEO of the company that operates the Hardee's and Carl's Jr restaurant chains.
But Nando's culture clashes with Trump's plans for immigration and some of Puzder's views. The nominee has described employees hired at his restaurants as "the best of the worst" available.
By taking its message to the White House (there are two restaurants within easy reach), Nando's is staying true to its tradition of edgy political campaigns that have sometimes got it into trouble.
Its "last dictator standing" advert poking fun at Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe was withdrawn. South African President Jacob Zuma has also been on the receiving end of its cheeky adverts.

Nando's political flare can be traced back to its South African roots.
The company has exported the country's "constitutional values," said Thebe Ikalafeng, CEO at Brand Africa.
Since the end of apartheid, South Africa has portrayed itself as the "rainbow nation," a showcase for diversity and unity.
Emphasizing its South African identity has helped Nando's compete against big global brands, Ikalafeng added.
Nando's now has more than 1,000 outlets in 21 countries. The company started operating in the U.S. in 2008 when it opened up in Washington. It has 38 restaurants in the U.S. and even sells its signature peri-peri sauce in selected retailers across the country.
The business is still owned by the Enthoven family and co-founder Robert Brozin, but some of its restaurants in South Africa, New Zealand and Australia are run as franchises.
Meanwhile, the White House also has the mandate in its scope. President Trump issued an executive order last Friday aimed at minimizing the health reform law's financial burden on Americans, states and others. The Health secretary could try to weaken the mandate by broadening the criteria for getting a hardship exemption.
 Trump and Obamacare: Where we go from here
The mandate is key to bringing in younger, healthier enrollees, who can balance sicker, costlier consumers. Already, insurers are finding their participants are sicker than expected, which is among the reasons why they hiked premiums 22% for 2017.
Surveys show that as many as 40% of enrollees say they wouldn't have signed up without the mandate, the Urban report found.
"Pulling one leg out of the stool, we crash to the ground," said one respondent.
If the mandate were eliminated, insurers who remain would likely raise their premiums further. The prevailing industry estimate is 5% to 15%, though at least one analysis put it above 20%, one large insurer told Urban researchers.
Insurers are agnostic about whether the Affordable Care Act should be repealed or not, said co-author Sabrina Corlette, research professor at Georgetown University's Health Policy Institute.
"They just want clarity," said Corlette. "They say 'tell us what the rules are. We'll figure out a way to implement it.'"
Even after a replacement plan is in place, insurers told Urban researchers they would need several years to implement it. One carrier said three years would be the minimum.
Urban Institute interviewed executives from 13 insurance companies -- including large, for-profit carriers, regional non-profits and others -- in December and early January, before Trump took office last week.
 Why it's so hard to replace Obamacare
Separately, the major insurers' lobbying group wrote a letter to Congressional Republicans Tuesday, urging lawmakers to approve incentives for Americans to continue their coverage, particularly if insurers must cover those with pre-existing conditions. America's Health Insurance Plans cited two states that prior to Obamacare required insurers to cover the sick, but did not have an individual mandate. In both cases, premiums skyrocketed and many insurers left.
Lawmakers are also looking to loosen Obamacare's requirement that insurers take everyone, regardless of their health history. Republican bills generally keep the protection for those who have been continuously insured, while allowing carriers to levy surcharges or require enrollees to wait six months before signing up. The lobby group wants to define "continuous coverage" as having insurance for at least 12 months.
"Health insurance only works when everyone is covered: those who utilize insurance to obtain quality care, as well as those who are healthy but have insurance to protect them in case they get sick," the association wrote. "Both types of consumers must be insured for coverage to remain affordable."
In the meantime, Trump has been alienating other trading partners, in particular Mexico. His administration began outlining options yesterday for how to finance a border wall with Mexico. Mexican President Enrique Peña Nieto responded by canceling a meeting with Trump set for next week.
 These are America's top trading partners
2. U.S. growth slowdown?: New numbers set to be released at 8:30 a.m. ET on Friday are expected to show the U.S. economy cooled off in the fourth quarter.
Economists expect GDP grew by just over 2% in the final three months of 2016, following strong growth of 3.5% in the third quarter.
Before the Bell newsletter: Key market news. In your inbox. Subscribe now!
3. Earnings: American Airlines (AAL), Chevron (CVX) and Honeywell (HON) are some of the big companies due to release earnings before the open. Investors will be looking out for any comments they make on Trump's trade and economic agenda.
Meanwhile, shares in UBS (UBS) are declining in Europe after the bank reported fourth-quarter results.
And Starbucks (SBUX) and Alphabet (GOOGL, Tech30) stock are down in extended trading after the companies released earnings on Thursday evening.
Google's parent company Alphabet (GOOGL, Tech30) reported it lost nearly $1.1 billion from its moonshot projects in the fourth quarter of 2016.
4. Global market overview: U.S. stocks hit new records on Thursday but not all the indexes were able to hold onto their gains.
The Dow Jones industrial average finished the day at its highest ever closing level. But the S&P 500 and Nasdaq both dipped back down a bit.
U.S. stock futures are currently holding steady.
European markets are mostly declining in early trading. Most Asian markets ended the day with small gains.
Download CNN MoneyStream for up-to-the-minute market data and news
5. Coming this week:
Friday - First reading of fourth-quarter U.S. GDP
On Thursday, Trump's press secretary, Sean Spicer, told reporters that Trump would propose a 20% tariff on all goods shipped from Mexico to the U.S. to pay for the wall. The White House later clarified that it is just one option.
Experts say a tariff would raise a mountain of concerns about U.S. jobs, the prices of products, and who actually pays for the wall.
"The notion that a 20% tariff is a way of forcing Mexico to pay for the wall, it's just a falsehood. It's a way of forcing American consumers to pay for the wall," says Edward Alden a trade expert at the Council on Foreign Relations.
Here's why.
First, about 6 million U.S. jobs depend on trade with Mexico, according to the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. Experts say those jobs would be jeopardized if Trump restricts trade with Mexico.
Americans will very likely face higher prices for many things -- from cars and computers to avocados and Corona. A litany of products imported from Mexico would be more expensive.
Companies from Ford (F) and GM (GM) to retailers like Walmart (WMT) and Best Buy (BBY) will likely be hit hard.
Taxing Mexican imports affects many U.S. companies that send parts south of the border to be assembled. About 40% of the parts in a typical Mexican import originate in the United States. For example, before a car arrives at a local dealership, its parts criss-cross the U.S, Mexican and Canadian borders. It's how supply chains are used today.
 40% of a Mexican import is American
There are other less obvious ways a blunt tariff could come back to bite Americans. Higher prices on some products mean that Americans would have less money to spend on others.
That would end up costing jobs. That's what happened in 2009 after President Obama used tariffs on Chinese tires. It cost more jobs than it saved because prices for tires went up, one study found.
And a Trump tariff would apply to many more products, so the ripple effects would be a lot broader.
That brings us to who pays for the wall. When the U.S. government applies a tariff on Mexican goods shipped into the U.S., Mexican companies don't pay the tariff -- American companies pay it. Companies usually pass the increased cost of goods down to consumers, hence the higher price tag.
So yes, a 20% tariff would pay for the wall. But Mexico would not be paying for it. American consumers would ultimately pay the price. Literally.
 A new NAFTA deal could bring jobs back -- at a cost
Mexico would suffer too. Its economy heavily relies on trade with the United States, and about 80% of all its exports go north of the border. A big tariff would discourage American firms from buying Mexican products.
Trump's threats could just be a war of words to strong arm Mexico into paying for the border wall.
Peter Navarro, who heads the White House National Trade Council, told CNNMoney during the campaign that the threat of a tariff would be a strategy to get Mexico into a better trade deal. Trump wants to renegotiate NAFTA, the free trade deal between Mexico, Canada and the U.S. The same logic could be applied to paying for the wall.
"The tariff is not an end game, it's a strategy -- a strategy to renegotiate trade deals," Navarro said at the time. "Tariffs wouldn't put U.S. jobs at risk."
If the tariff happens, the U.S. should expect Mexico to retaliate. Mexico's economy minister, Ildfonso Guajardo, said Mexico would respond immediately to any tariffs Trump imposes on Mexico.
"It's very clear that we have to be prepared to immediately be able to neutralize the impact of a measure of that nature," Guajardo said on a Mexican news show that aired January 13.
Guajardo added: A Trump tariff "will have a wave of impacts that can take us into a global recession."
Goldman Sachs (GS) is immediately paying Cohn $65 million in cash in exchange for the stock awards he earned in recent years, the company said in a filing.
That stock would normally be tied up for several years, but Goldman said it accelerated the payout so that Cohn can sever ties with the firm to become director of the National Economic Council in the Trump administration.
Cohn put out a separate filing on Tuesday saying he had taken possession of a total of $220 million in stock from a trust that had been controlled by his family. Goldman lifted restrictions ahead of schedule on $35 million in stock awards and another $23 million in stock as part of this amount too.
That means Cohn is walking away from Goldman with roughly $285 million, minus a portion the firm withheld so that he can pay taxes. All this doesn't include Cohn's 2016 compensation of more than $7 million.
 Trump on Dow 20K: 'Now we have to go up, up, up'
Much of Cohn's money was earned after decades of helping to build Goldman Sachs into a Wall Street powerhouse. Technically, Cohn could have sold his unrestricted shares at any time, but senior execs typically don't do that to signal they have confidence in their company.
The real issue for ethics experts is that Goldman allowed Cohn to also receive the stock that would normally be locked up.
"The Goldman Sachs cash and stock payments present a serious ethics issue," said Lawrence Noble, general counsel at the Campaign Legal Center and a CNN contributor.
"This type of payment clearly calls into question whose interests Mr. Cohn will be representing as director of the National Economic Council," Noble said.
Noble believes the payments appear to qualify as "extraordinary payment," under which federal regulations require government officials to recuse themselves. These payments must exceed $10,000 and be made by a company after it became known that an individual was being considered for or had accepted a government position.
Norm Eisen, a fellow at the Brookings Institute who served as President Obama's ethics czar, also raised the question of whether Cohn's Goldman payday comes under an "extraordinary payment."
If so, Eisen said "then Mr. Cohn should be recused from any matters in which Goldman is a party or represents a party for two years."
That requirement is spelled out in federal regulations.
Given that Goldman represents countless clients around the business world, a two-year recusal could impair Cohn's ability to do his job.
 Trump's foreign profit plan
It's not clear if the Office of Government Ethics will require Cohn to recuse himself because no ethics agreement has been posted on the agency's website for Cohn.
But Goldman noted in its filing that Cohn "received guidance" from the White House Office of General Counsel, in coordination with the OGE.
"The only reason we accelerated delivery of Mr. Cohn's shares is to allow him to comply with the conflict of interest rules established by the U.S. government," Goldman told CNNMoney in an email.
White House spokeswoman Natalie Strom said that Cohn "followed all necessary rules and regulations" to join the administration and confirmed that he won't receive a salary in his new role.
"President Trump has established an extraordinary group of compliance officials to ensure that every person" in the administration "meets the appropriate ethical standards," Strom said in an email.
To which, Eisen said: "Even if this turns out to be legal, that doesn't mean it's right."
Norwegian said it will take delivery of the first of its Max jets in May and "then it will take a little time before it enters operation," the spokesman added. The airline has ordered 100 of the jets.
But being the first comes with added challenges, as the first operator typically works out the early kinks of a new design. When Norwegian first took its 787 Dreamliner in 2013, its early operations were repeatedly disrupted by reliability issues with the advanced long-range airliner.
 Boeing chases airlines for stretch 737
Norwegian plans to use the single-aisle 737 Max, with its increased range, to fly between Europe and smaller cities in the U.S. The low-cost airline's long-haul operations from Europe are flown today with larger 787 Dreamliners.

The airline has been at the center of a fierce controversy with U.S. airlines and their labor unions over the Department of Transportation's approval of the carrier's ability to fly from Ireland to the U.S.. The unions claim Norwegian will undercut wages for U.S.-based pilots and cabin crews or hire less expensive non-U.S. crews while flying to America.
 Richard Quest flies around the world on low-cost airlines
Southwest Airlines (LUV) was the first carrier to place a firm order for Boeing's updated single-aisle jet back in December 2011 and has long been expected to take the first jet from the plane maker. Southwest said Thursday that it won't take its first Max until July and it will start flying passengers on October 1.
Boeing's chief executive Dennis Muilenburg said Wednesday that the Max, which has been in testing since January 2016, will deliver during the second quarter, but did not say which airline would take the first jet.
 American Airlines eliminating in-seat screens on new 737 jets
Southwest has faced obstacles getting the Max into its fleet, first facing a now-settled labor dispute with its pilots over pay on the aircraft and the compatibility of the fourth generation aircraft into its all-Boeing 737 fleet.
Southwest is the largest operator of 737 jets in the world, and was the first airline the last time Boeing introduced a new generation of its workhorse airliner in 1997.
Boeing holds orders for more than 3,400 737 Max jets, which feature a pair of new engines and aerodynamic updates to cut fuel consumption by 14%.
"This morning we have informed the White House that I will not attend the scheduled work meeting for next Tuesday with @POTUS," Pena Nieto tweeted.
Then the peso fell fast, going down as much as 1.4%, a significant decline in just a few hours. It recovered some of its losses, but remained down by more than 1%.
One peso is currently worth less than 5 cents.
 Trump threatens Mexico's biggest cash source
The Mexican peso is near an all-time low and Trump is a major reason why. His threats to use tariffs against Mexico, and to renegotiate a key trade agreement, NAFTA, have caused the peso to decline sharply since the election. The peso's decline is largely a reflection of investors' expectations for Mexico's economy.
But Trump's trade threats against Mexico also aren't good for U.S. workers, trade experts stress.
After all, 6 million U.S. jobs depend on trade with Mexico, according to the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. Disrupting trade with tariffs and new trade rules would risk U.S. and Mexican jobs, experts say.
And 40% of the parts in a typical Mexican import coming to the U.S. actually originate in America too. Supply chains running across Canada, the U.S. and Mexico tie workers' job fortunes together.
 40% of a Mexican import is American
Plus, a weaker currency plays to Mexico's favor in some ways. It makes it easier for Mexico to sell its products to U.S. buyers because they become cheaper. To some extent a weak peso is an advantage while a strong U.S. dollar is a hurdle for U.S. companies that sell abroad because their products become more expensive for foreigners.
Still, the reason for the peso's decline -- Trump's trade threats -- would undoubtedly be bad for Mexico's economy if they become reality. It relies heavily on trade with America. Over 80% of Mexican exports come to the United States.
The peso has lost about 13% of its value since election day. Trump's threats have even caused Mexico's central bank to say its economic outlook has "deteriorated." Last week, the International Monetary Fund slashed its forecast for Mexico's economic growth to 1.7% this year. Last year, it grew 2.2%, according to Mexico's finance minister.
Ford CEO Mark Fields also praised President Trump in his remarks to investors Thursday.
 Detroit at the White House - Trump meets with Big Three auto CEOs
"I think he'll be very focused on policies that drive investment and job creation in American manufacturing and in automotive manufacturing," Fields said.
Still, automakers are worried about exactly how all these new policies will be put into place.
"Even after the meeting I attended in Washington a couple of days ago, I'm unsure what part of that package, if any is going to get rolled out by 2018," said Marchionne.
He added that that Fiat Chrysler has been considering bringing some work it's doing in Mexico back to the U.S. for years -- specifically assembly of the Ram 1500 pickup truck that's currently built at a plant in Saltillo.
 Trump scores PR win against automakers but can he take credit for jobs?
Marchionne cautioned he couldn't yet commit to the move. But he said that some of the Trump proposals could help make it happen.
"Properly motivated, it could be executed relatively quickly," he said.
On Thursday, Fiat Chrysler reported record 2016 earnings. It also announced that 40,000 U.S. factory workers will get a $5,000 profit sharing payment next month, a record since Fiat bought Chrysler out of bankruptcy in 2009. Ford announced a $9,000 profit sharing payment for its 56,000 U.S. factory workers.
The new president correctly pointed out the market has "gone up a lot since I won." The Dow is up more than 1,700 points since the election, much of it driven by bets that Trump's stimulus plans will make the economy grow faster -- and hopes that his trade agenda won't cause a trade war.
"Now we have to go up, up, up. We don't want it to stay there," Trump told ABC.
What a difference a few months makes.
In late September, Trump warned during a presidential debate that the market is "in a big, fat, ugly bubble."
 Boom: Dow hits 20,000 for first time ever
Trump himself hasn't benefited from the rising stock market. He sold all of his stocks in June, according to a spokesperson. Trump told the Today show that he got out because he thought he'd win and it would be a "conflict" to own stocks as president.
But is it a good idea for a president to nudge the stock market to go higher? On the one hand, a higher stock market is a reflection of economic optimism and could even encourage Americans with investments in the market to stimulate growth by spending spend more money.
Yet just about half of Americans don't have money invested in the stock market, Bankrate and the Federal Reserve have found.
"That's fine to be a cheerleader for the economy. But to be a specific cheerleader for the market is best avoided," said David Joy, chief market strategist at Ameriprise Financial.
Joy pointed out that some market strategists, including himself, have warned that stock market valuations have become fairly elevated. In other words, stocks may be getting too expensive.
"To talk the market higher might encourage some people to abandon their discipline and ignore things like valuations," he said.

 54% of Americans aren't benefiting from Dow 20K
Stock market records are great, but too much of a good thing can be a bad thing. Recall the stock market booms of the late 1990s and mid-2000s that got out of hand. Millions of Americans lost much of their wealth when those bubbles eventually imploded.
"You don't want there to be irrational exuberance. It's a very dangerous thing, as we've come to realize," Joy said.
Of course, Trump is hardly the first president to comment on the stock market. Former President Obama is famously credited with helping to call the bottom of the Wall Street meltdown when in March 2009 he said "buying stocks is a potentially good deal if you've got a long-term perspective on it."
So will the market keep going higher as Trump has suggested?
That will largely hinge on Trump's ability to push through his stimulus plans -- cutting taxes, slashing regulation and unleashing infrastructure spending. And any rally could be short-circuited if Trump's trade agenda sparks a trade war with China, Mexico or another trading partner.
But David Kotok, chairman and chief investment officer at Cumberland Advisors, believes investors have become "complacent" because they aren't pricing in those risks. That's why his firm began exiting investments to raise cash in mid-December and continues to do so.
"The market is fraught with risk -- unless the Trump agenda is delivered perfectly. History shows that's not easy," said Kotok.
--CNNMoney's Heather Long contributed to this report.
But Mattel wasn't just hit by exchange rates and the loss of Cinderella, Snow White and Ariel. The company said that sales of two of its most iconic franchises, Barbie and Fisher-Price, were also lower from a year ago. That's a problem.
Mattel's stock had soared last year on hopes that the company was turning things around.
 Lego's new kit teaches kids to code
Making matters worse, Mattel CEO Christopher Sinclair said in the company's earnings release late Wednesday that "elevated retail promotional activity" hurt sales too. In other words, retailers slashed toy prices to attract customers.
Shares of Mattel plunged more than 15% on the news. That made it the worst performer in the S&P 500.
Hasbro, which will report its holiday quarter earnings on February 6, plummeted 6% as well.
Mattel's dismal sales shouldn't be that big of a surprise. Last week, privately held retailer Toys"R"Us announced that same-store sales fell 2.5% in the U.S. during the holidays and nearly 5% internationally.
CEO Dave Brandon said that "the 2016 holiday season proved to be an unusual and challenging one for most retailers."
The bad news from Mattel and Toys"R"Us threatens to turn next month's annual Toy Fair show in New York City into a gloomy affair.
It's a time when the industry showcases what it expects the hot new toys will be for the latter half of the year. Now it's reasonable to wonder just who will be buying those toys.
 Barbie battled Star Wars and Hatchimals last holiday season
Mattel's lousy report comes just a little more than a week after the company announced that it hired former Google (GOOGL, Tech30) ad executive Margo Georgiadis to be its new CEO.
Georgiadis will take over from Sinclair on February 8. Sinclair, who became CEO in early 2015 after a long stint as an executive at Pepsi (PEP), will remain Mattel's chairman.
Investors will be looking for Georgiadis to invest more in digital toys to help get Mattel back on track. And they'll be hoping that she doesn't get second thoughts and go back to Google either.
Georgiadis actually left Google in April 2011 to become the COO of daily deals site Groupon (GRPN). But she left Groupon just five months later and returned to Google.
"The political climate towards executive pay has changed in the past few weeks and some shareholders have changed their opinion," said Simon Evans, the company's spokesman.
British Prime Minister Theresa May set out ambitious plans last July to tackle excessive executive pay, which included giving workers as well as shareholders, seats on big company boards and holding binding shareholder votes on executive pay.
However, she has since introduced more modest plans that would only force some companies to hold binding votes.
Top-paid women executives
Imperial's board still believes the top executives should be better paid, and would continue to talk to shareholders about how to achieve that, Evans said.
"The pay opportunity at Imperial Brands is way below that of companies of similar size," he added.
Imperial Brands is part of London's FTSE 100 index of leading companies, which paid their CEOs £5.5 million ($6.9 million) on average in 2015, according to data from the High Pay Centre, a think tank.
 British CEOs should take a 50% pay cut
Several companies have faced revolts from shareholders over pay in the past year. Investors in Deutsche Bank (DB), BP (BP), Weir (WEGRY) and Paysafe (NVAFF) rejected CEO pay deals.
ShareSoc, the UK Individual Shareholders Society, said executive pay should be cut by at least 50%.
Imperial Brands (IMBBY) owns companies making cigarette brands such as Davidoff and Gauloises, Golden Virginia tobacco and Romeo y Julieta cigars. The group was called Imperial Tobacco until last year.
The deal could be one of the first tests of how serious President Donald Trump is about cracking down on money transfers, also known as remittances, to Mexico.
Trump has already proposed building a physical wall on the border with Mexico. Trump has previously said he would consider levying big taxes -- or even halting -- remittances to Mexico if the country would not pay for the wall.
On Thursday, Mexican President Enrique Pena Nieto canceled a previously scheduled meeting with Trump after the rhetoric on who is going to pay for the wall ratcheted up.
MoneyGram already has a thriving remittances business. And last October -- just a few weeks before the election -- MoneyGram announced a deal with Walmart (WMT) that would let customers send money from Walmart's U.S. stores to Walmart Mexico locations.
So will Trump approve of MoneyGram selling out to a Chinese company? Perhaps.
It's worth noting that Trump already had a meeting with Ma in New York earlier this month before the inauguration.
Trump praised Ma after the meeting, saying that Ma was a "great, great entrepreneur and one of the best in the world." Trump added that "Jack and I are going to do some great things."
Could the Ant deal for MoneyGram be the start of those great things?
 Trump threatens Mexico's biggest cash source
The White House was not immediately available for comment about the proposed acquisition.
But executives from Ant Financial seemed to go out of their way in the press release to stress that the deal would be good for the employees of MoneyGram and consumers.
The two companies stressed that MoneyGram will keep its headquarters in Dallas and that it should "maintain and grow its U.S.-based workforce."
Ant Financial CEO Eric Jing said in a release that "we are committed to continuing to invest in MoneyGram's workforce and growing jobs in the United States."
But Jing didn't shy away from the fact that MoneyGram is a major player in remittances from the U.S. to Mexico.
He said a combined Ant Financial and MoneyGram will "will provide greater access, security and simplicity for people around the world to remit funds, especially in major economies such as the United States, China, India, Mexico and the Philippines."
 40% of a Mexican import is American
MoneyGram CEO Alex Holmes, who will remain with the company after the acquisition, added that the deal will allow MoneyGram to expand around the world.
Interestingly, Holmes predicted that consolidation in the money transfer business was coming a few years ago.
He said in an interview in the Financial Times in December 2015 that "regulators want more information" and that rising compliance costs could put pressure on companies to merge.
There were even rumors that MoneyGram could wind up combining with its rival Western Union. (WU)
MoneyGram and Ant Financial said Wednesday that they hope their deal will close during the second half of this year. It will require regulatory approval around the globe though.
 Jack Ma and Donald Trump met to talk jobs
One of the regulators that monitors MoneyGram in the United States is the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, the watchdog agency that was the brainchild of now Senator Elizabeth Warren and was created as part of the Dodd-Frank financial reform law.
So it will be interesting to see whether Democrats like Warren have any issues with the proposed merger, as well as whether or not Trump gives his blessing to it.
Mexico's central bank recently said that nearly $25 billion in remittances made their way into the country from friends and relatives living outside the country during the first 11 months of 2016. Nearly all of that cash was from people in the U.S.
--CNNMoney's Patrick Gillespie contributed to this story.
Indeed, only about 63,000 of the 766,000 auto industry jobs in Mexico are devoted to assembling passenger cars and trucks -- just 8%.
So Trump's plan to tax cars coming from Mexico to the U.S. won't do much for jobs.
"Even if he's successful bringing back all the assembly line jobs, it's not that much," said Kristin Dziczek, director of the industry, labor & economics group at the Center for Automotive Research, a Michigan think tank.
 Trump scores PR win against automakers, but can he take credit for the jobs?
Trump could take aim the 700,000 auto supplier jobs in Mexico by getting Congress to impose a tax on auto parts. But that would drive up the cost of the roughly 11 million cars that are built in the United States each year.
That's because there is no such thing as an all-American car. Every car built in the U.S. contains at least 25% worth of parts from outside the country. And Mexico is a major source of those parts.
Taxing Mexican parts could make U.S. cars more expensive. That would hurt car buyers, and, ultimately, U.S. auto jobs.
"It would raise prices, which in the short run lowers the quantity of vehicles being built here," said Dziczek.
Some of the best-selling U.S. vehicles have a large percentage of their parts made in Mexico.
The Ford F-150, the best selling car or truck in the United States, gets 15% of its parts from Mexico, according to government data. The Ram 1500 pickup, Fiat Chrysler's best selling vehicle, gets 27% of its parts from Mexico. And GM's best selling Chevy Silverado gets more than half its parts from foreign plants, and uses a Mexican-built engine. The GMC Sierra also gets more than half of its parts from Mexico.
It's not at all clear what exactly Trump's border-tax plan consists of. When asked if Trump had disclosed any details about it when he met with auto CEOs on Tuesday, Fiat Chrysler (FCAU) CEO Sergio Marchionne told reporters "Not yet."
Last week, Treasury Secretary nominee Steven Mnuchin insisted there would be no broad border tax or tariff, only a targeted tax aimed at companies that shift jobs to Mexico.
Automakers argue that opening a plant in Mexico doesn't necessarily cost U.S. jobs. Jobs at U.S. auto plants have grown by 310,000, or 50%, since the industry bottomed out in 2009. Manufacturers often shift the production of less expensive models to Mexico to free up U.S. workers to make higher-priced vehicles.
And despite Trump's threats, automakers are going ahead with their plans to invest in Mexico.
 Detroit at the White House - Trump meets with Big Three auto CEOs
Both BMW and Toyota (TM) say they are going ahead with plans to shift some of their small car production to new plants in Mexico.
And even though Ford (F) dropped plans to build a $1.6 billion assembly plant in Mexico earlier this month, it still decided to move the production that was headed for the new plant to an existing plant in Mexico.
And even if the U.S does impose a border tax on cars built in Mexico, automakers aren't going to shut down their plants and move jobs back to the U.S. Instead, they'll just export the cars made in Mexico to other markets in South American and Europe. Last year, nearly a third of the 3.4 million cars built in Mexico were shipped to those markets, according to WardsAuto research.
One of the few examples of an automaker bringing back jobs from Mexico to the U.S. is GM (GM), which announced plans last week to shift 450 jobs building axles from Mexico to a U.S. GM plant. The automaker also agreed to have one of its suppliers move an additional 100 Mexican jobs to Michigan.
But out of the 766,000 auto jobs in Mexico, that's only a drop in the bucket.
-- CNNMoney's Jose Pagliery and Patrick Gillespie contributed to this report
But trade is more of a two-way street.
Experts like to point out a key fact: 40% of the parts in a typical Mexican product originate in the United States, according to the Commerce Department.
And that's a key reason why 6 million U.S. jobs depend on trade just with Mexico, according to the U.S. Chamber of Commerce.
These numbers represent the core of how free trade works in North America and how supply chains of thousands of businesses flow through the three countries. Certain products are made in the United States, others in Canada and others in Mexico. Assembling the product also happens across borders.
For instance, before a car arrives at a local dealership, its parts already crossed both southern and northern borders multiple times.
 Remove cars, and the U.S. trade deficit with Mexico 'vanishes'
Trump threatens to slap a "big border tax" on companies that manufacture in Mexico and sell products in the United States. Trump says it could be as high as a 35% tax -- or tariff -- on Mexican products.
Trade experts emphasize that tariffs on Mexican products would cost jobs in the U.S. precisely because of that 40% figure. Tariffs risk disrupting the free flow of goods between these three North American nations, which could cost jobs in all three countries.
Peter Navarro, who leads the White House National Trade Council, said during the campaign that tariffs would not cost U.S. jobs.
"The tariff is not an end game, it's a strategy -- a strategy to renegotiate trade deals," Navarro told CNNMoney during the campaign. "Tariffs wouldn't put U.S. jobs at risk."
Navarro and other Trump advisers are holding their second day of talks with Mexico's economy minister, Ildefonso Guajardo, and foreign minister, Luis Videgaray. Trump is still scheduled to meet with President Enrique Pena Nieto next week. NAFTA and the border wall are at the top of the agenda.
The company will still have about $12 billion in overseas cash after the deal closes, which is expected to be in the second quarter of this year.
Other American companies have been reluctant to bring overseas profits home because of the 35% U.S. corporate tax rate, the highest among developed economies. Apple (AAPL, Tech30), General Electric (GE), Microsoft (MSFT, Tech30), Pfizer (PFE) and Merck (MRK) all keep tens of billions overseas.
Asked on a conference call Thursday about tax implications, J&J chief financial officer Dominic Caruso said the Actelion deal was good in part because there were no U.S. taxes attached to it.
"That's the most attractive tax rate -- zero," he said, but noted he was closely watching for any developments on tax reform in the United States.
Trump has said he wants to lower U.S. corporate tax rates, which would encourage companies to bring money back into the United States.
During the presidential campaign, he suggested a tax rate of 10%. But that may not have the effect he wants: When companies have been granted tax breaks in the past, very little cash ended up returning to the United States.
 Ray-Ban owner makes $50 billion glasses deal
Johnson & Johnson is known for baby shampoo and consumer products, but it makes the bulk of its revenue selling drugs and medical devices. It's buying Actelion to get access to its blood pressure drugs and other drugs in later stages of development.
J&J said the takeover would boost sales and profits immediately. It will also lower the company's overall tax bill because Switzerland is known for comparatively low corporate tax rates. Executives did not say how much the deal would help J&J save in tax.
A J&J spokesman said the company didn't know yet whether the takeover would affect jobs.

As part of the deal, Actelion will spin off its early-stage research and development unit into a separate business that will stay in Switzerland. Actelion shareholders will get a stake in that business, and J&J will take a large stake, too.
J&J and Actelion have been working on the takeover for months. It got dramatic in December when they publicly broke things off, only to return a few days later to exclusive talks.
"I have a little bit in my checking [account], little bit in my savings," Coomer, a grandma of three who still works 55 hours a week at the gas station, told CNNMoney.
Coomer is part of over half of America that has $0 invested in the stock market, as research reports and surveys have found. One survey from Bankrate found that 54% of Americans have no money in the stock market.
That means no money in pension funds, 401(k) retirement plans, IRAs, mutual funds or ETFs. And they certainly don't own individual stocks like Apple (AAPL, Tech30), Ford (F) or Tesla (TSLA).
"For the majority of the people here, the stock market is something interesting to look at," says Chuck Caudill, general manager of the local newspaper, The Beattyville Enterprise.
Still, even in this "homey" town, many people had heard about the stock market doing something the world had never seen before.
"It means people's hopeful," said Coomer. She voted for Donald Trump. She believes strongly that Trump will bring jobs back to towns like hers in Appalachia. She might not understand what Wall Street traders do, but she knows why they are bullish. She is too.
 Trump vows to create 25 million jobs, most of any president
"The one positive thing about the market hitting a record high for people back here is there's hope," says Caudill. "It's a reminder there is still lots of money out there."
Caudill estimates about 40% of the people in Beattyville live in poverty. The latest Census estimate is that 54% of Beattyville residents live below the poverty line of $24,300 a year for a family of four.
The day the stock market touched the big milestone, Lasonia Jewels was sitting with two friends on a bench in Beattyville selling old lamps and household trinkets. She needed extra cash to pay bills. Her disability check from the government -- roughly $700 a month from Supplemental Security Income -- doesn't go far, even in Appalachia.
"Trump remembers the little people," Jewels said, as her friends nodded.
 The Dow's long road to 20,000
On Wall Street and in CEO executive suites, there's a lot of optimism that Trump will cut taxes and slash regulations. Both of those moves could have an immediate impact on the profits of many companies.
The chatter is different on Main Street. In places like Beattyville, the No. 1 topic of discussion is jobs. Trump has vowed to create 25 million jobs. It would be the most of any president, even beating the nearly 23 million jobs the economy gained under President Bill Clinton during the tech boom days of the late 1990s.
If there's one area of overlap between Main Street and Wall Street, it's enthusiasm for infrastructure spending. People in eastern Kentucky like to talk about roads. Some people drive an hour or two to bigger cities like Winchester and Lexington every day for work. They complain about the potholes and badly patched roads.
The people of Beattyville want better roads for their community. Building roads means more jobs, but even after the construction work is done, they believe bigger, nicer roads will attract companies back into a region once dominated by coal, oil and manufacturing.
"Trump's already done more in a week than Obama did in eight years," says Coomer. "He's gonna help everybody."
Collectively, the millions of people marching in the streets around the world represented a kum ba yah moment of dissent against the policies of incoming President Donald Trump. It felt like a step in the right direction, but we still have a long way to go before women of color reach full parity with white women.
 Women of color on what's at stake under President Trump
While women of color are far from a monolithic group, many of us have had similar experiences with sexism and racism -- both subtle and overt -- that has made it harder for us to achieve the American Dream. Women of color continue to be paid less than white women, are less likely to be married than white women and are less likely to hold top positions than white women. We are also disproportionately impacted by issues like criminal justice, reproductive health and immigration - issues that are at the center of this new presidential administration.
"Women of color suffer from triple oppression: race, economy and gender," said Rosa Clemente a community organizer and a 2008 vice presidential candidate for the Green Party. "If white women are going to be part of the work, they're going to have to find a way to completely support women of color."
To do this, Mary Hooks, the co-director of Southerners on New Ground, an activist group, said white women will have to make a deliberate attempt to support black women and other women of color and the issues that impact them the most like criminal justice reform, immigration and LGBTQ rights. "How will they leverage their roles, their privilege in order to advance those causes?" Hooks said. "White women have to be willing to take some marching orders."
Women of color have reason to be suspicious of white women. Slightly over half of them voted for Trump compared to 25% of Latinas and 4% of black women, according to CNN exit polls.
 The steep cost of incarceration on women of color
"African-American women are the most loyal voting bloc known and they are not always taken care of," said Danyelle Solomon, the Director of Progress 2050 initiative at the Center for American Progress, a left leaning think tank.
Many women of color are fearful that this new administration will repeal or restrict reproductive rights or fail to enforce non-discriminatory policies and protections - issues that affect all women but have a disproportionate impact on non-white, less wealthy women.
Others are concerned about the rise of racism and misogyny, particularly when some of America's most visible black women, including actress Leslie Jones and first lady Michelle Obama, have been publicly harassed with racial epithets.
The film "Hidden Figures" shows us many examples of the prejudices that black women scientists working at NASA faced in the 1960s - from race specific bathrooms and offices to the hostilities they experienced working with whites. Segregated offices may be a thing of the past, but many women of color today know what it feels like to be ignored and undermined.
Whether it's the emails that go unanswered, the flimsy reasons for why you didn't get the raise or the promotion (or why you are paid less to begin with), the assumption that you cannot be fair and level headed because of your race or gender, or the feeling of being "the only" woman or person of color in a room. Some of these experiences are normal parts of life but in other cases they represent something more insidious.
 Wage gap between blacks and whites is worst in nearly 40 years
For many of us, it still seems like "having it all" is a concept created by white women, for white women.
When I was at the march, I saw young women of color who were energized and excited. Two of them screamed louder for feminist and activist Angela Davis than they did for Alicia Keys.
One young black woman carried a sign that said "My feminism doesn't exist without my blackness", while a young Latina protestor had a sign in Spanish that said "Not saints, not whores, just women." Older, professional women of color I met that weekend spoke of being "exhausted" and "walking a tightrope" and navigating the subtle slights they face everyday.
In the next few decades, women of color will be the majority of all women in the country.
Equality and parity won't happen overnight, but the conversation is one that cannot be ignored.
Meanwhile, United Rentals (URI) and eBay (EBAY) shares could surge after the companies reported better-than-expected results on Wednesday. On the flip side, Mattel (MAT) is set to tank after releasing earnings that came in below expectations.
In Europe, shares in Unilever (UL) are dropping by about 4% and Diageo (DEO) stock is up about 5% as investors react to their earnings.
Before the Bell newsletter: Key market news. In your inbox. Subscribe now!
2. J&J buying Actelion: Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) announced it's paying $29.3 billion to buy the Swiss biopharmaceutical firm Actelion (ALIOY).
Shares in Actelion surged 20% after the announcement.
The companies have had an on-off relationship. They had been talking about a deal, broke things off in December, only to return a few days later to exclusive talks about a deal.
3. Getting high: U.S. stock markets hit all-time highs yesterday and it looks like they'll reach new records today.
The Dow Jones industrial average surpassed the 20,000 point level on Wednesday for the first time ever. The Nasdaq rose by 1% and the S&P 500 added 0.8%
U.S. stock futures are pushing up again. European markets are mostly rising in early trading, and Asian markets ended the day with gains.
4. Brexit watch: New data shows U.K. fourth quarter GDP grew by 0.6% over the third quarter, matching the rate of growth recorded in the previous two quarters.
The data shows U.K. GDP grew by 2% for the year as a whole, down from 2.2% in 2015 and 3.1% in 2014.
"Clearly, life goes on, despite the Brexit vote," said Alan Clarke, an economist at Scotiabank.
Download CNN MoneyStream for up-to-the-minute market data and news
5. Coming this week:
Thursday - Microsoft (MSFT, Tech30), Alphabet (GOOGL, Tech30), Ford (F), and Starbucks (SBUX) earnings Friday - First reading of fourth-quarter U.S. GDP
"Every major sector of the economy grew last year, which is further evidence of the fundamental strength and resilience of the U.K. economy," said Chancellor of the Exchequer Philip Hammond. "There may be uncertainty ahead as we adjust to a new relationship with Europe, but we are ready to seize the opportunities to create a competitive economy that works for all."
The pound is still 15% down against the dollar compared to the EU referendum day in June. The slump is boosting British exporters, but hurting consumers at home. Prices on a wide range of consumer goods from chocolate bars and beer to iPhones and toys are rising as a result.
"Retail data for [December] has shown some signs of slowing spending among consumers and if the upcoming number for this month also confirm the same trend, we could be heading towards serious trouble," said Naeem Aslam, chief market analyst at Think Markets U.K.
Investment in the auto sector slumped to £1.66 billion ($2.1 billion) in 2016 from £2.5 billion ($3.2 billion) in 2015, according to the Society of Motor Manufacturers and Traders.
 Trump says he wants a U.K. trade deal
The government expects to borrow an extra £58.7 billion ($72.6 billion) over the next five years because of an economic slowdown. The Office of Budget Responsibility, an independent government agency, said that growth will slump to just 1.4% in 2017, the weakest since 2009, according to IMF data.
Prime Minister Theresa May wants to start the formal process of leaving the EU by the end of March.
May is meeting President Trump at the White House on Friday, hoping to start discussions about a future trade deal between the two countries. Trump said he would put the U.K. at the front of the queue for a trade deal, but experts warn an agreement is far from certain, and will take years to achieve.
One of Trump's top priorities is repealing the Affordable Care Act. Only hours into his administration on Friday, he issued an executive order that seeks to undermine it.
 Trump issues executive order to start rolling back Obamacare
The agency site, however, continues to praise Obamacare -- at least as of Wednesday evening. It also features a blog post from a gig economy worker who says he was able to find coverage for $58 a month. The unnamed man used to work in the tech industry in San Francisco, but had to leave his job to care for his mother. He now works part-time delivering food on DoorDash, but needs insurance because he has a chronic condition that requires medication and lab tests.
"The Affordable Care Act is great for those of us who are working in the gig economy or trying to grow our own business, big or small," reads the link, which also uses the hashtag #coveragematters, one of the Obama administration's efforts to rally support for his signature health reform plan.
The agency has updated some pages on its site, including its leadership page. Sylvia Burwell, who served as former President Obama's health secretary, is no longer listed and most of those in top positions are designated as "acting."
"The pace of change picks up as new appointees come on board," said Mark Weber, the acting assistant secretary for public affairs.
 Medicaid takes center stage as Democrats grill Tom Price
Trump's pick for Health Secretary, Tom Price, has yet to be confirmed by the Senate. He went before the Senate Finance Committee on Tuesday. Senators are expected to vote on his nomination in coming weeks.
"We're able to add volume and increase sales in China, because as we increase sales to China we increase building airplanes here in the U.S., and that's U.S. manufacturing jobs," he said.
Critics of the plan say it shifts work done today by U.S.-based workers and gives the Chinese industry valuable insight into the minute details of preparing a jetliner.
But Muilenburg framed the Chinese production facility as being in line with President Trump's policy aims of increasing manufacturing jobs for Americans.
 Trump & Boeing: It's not about Air Force One, it's about China
Boeing anticipates delivering between 760 and 765 airliners in 2017, roughly matching its 2015 record of 762 planes. That year around one-quarter of Boeing's nearly 500 737s went to Chinese airlines, a pace that is expected to continue as China rapidly builds its airline industry.
Boeing leaders are concerned a significant shift in trade policy toward China could have catastrophic effects on the company's plans to sustain and increase production of its lucrative 737 planes.
Boeing builds 42 single-aisle 737s jets each month at its factory in Renton, Washington, and has plans to increase to 57 monthly by 2019.
Currently, each 737 has its seats and other cabin equipment installed by Boeing workers before delivery.
Under Muilenburg's plan, the airplanes that would eventually go to Chinese airlines would be flown to China and outfitted and delivered at the new finishing center.
 Boeing: 150,000 American aviation jobs depend on China
Boeing hasn't announced a date for the facility's opening, but last year said it would be located near Shanghai. Airbus has a facility in Tianjin where it assembles A320 airliners. It also plans a finishing center for bigger long-range twin-aisle A330s.
U.S. trade policy towards China has been upended with the arrival of the Trump administration, and Boeing jetliner deliveries are widely viewed as vulnerable if China retaliates.
Boeing, in particular, has been buffeted by Trump and his use of Twitter. Trump has warned the company against cost overruns on the replacement 747s for Air Force One.
 Boeing eyes China focus with new sales chief
The aerospace and defense giant has also been pulled into a ongoing public negotiation over the price the latest batch of Lockheed Martin F-35 Joint Strike Fighters. Trump has tweeted he may do a deal with Boeing for older-generation F/A-18 Super Hornets if the F-35 price tag doesn't fall.
Muilenburg and Lockheed Martin CEO Marillyn Hewson have met with Trump several times to discuss the aircraft purchases, among other issues.
"I'm encouraged by his engagement," Muilenburg said. He said Trump's efforts to grow U.S. manufacturing jobs "are all very positive. We've got a voice at the table" on key policy issues ranging from trade posture to defense spending.
That leaves about 1,300 miles of the border completely open, although much of that border is along the Rio Grande River.
The existing fence is mostly 18 feet high. But in others there are only low barriers that would stop vehicles, but provide little impediment to people.
 Trump orders construction of border wall, increased deportations
The taller portions of the fence cost an average of $3.9 million per mile, according to the Government Accountability Office.
But that's just a fence, not a wall. And the fencing is mostly located in more populated areas, where construction is easier.
Building a wall in isolated areas will be more expensive. In some cases, the U.S. would first need to build roads and other infrastructure built just to reach the border area. The terrain itself could be rugged, even mountainous.
The wall would probably be made out of precast concrete panels, which are often used on sound walls to block out traffic noise along the side of the nation's highways. It's also how most of the 30-foot tall Israeli-West Bank barrier was constructed.
As far as cost goes,Trump has cited a $10 billion estimate that was given to him during the campaign by the National Precast Concrete Association. That comes to about $7.4 million per mile.
"We're pretty confident in that figure," said Ty Gable, president of the industry trade group. "But there are a lot of variables. It depends on factors like terrain, how level the land is, whether you can get a crane in there."
By comparison it only costs about $3 million to build a mile of a typical two-lane road. So for $10 billion you could build a road roughly from Seattle to Miami.
 The many challenges facing Trump's wall
But other estimates suggest there are enough uncertainties to drive the cost up to $15 billion, and possibly as much as $25 billion, according to a report from Bernstein Research, which tracks materials costs.
It's also important to note that none of these estimates includes the cost of acquiring the land where the wall will be built, which could also be considerable.
Bernstein estimates that it will take at least one to two years to plan the project and buy the land, while the construction itself would be completed in two years.
Gable said that the one thing that's certain about building a wall: It won't do much to generate jobs.
The construction might only require hundreds of workers -- a couple thousand if the project is sped up. But it wouldn't generate tens of thousands of jobs, he said.
"It's not the Hoover Dam," Gable said. "We're more automated now than we've ever been."
 Trump threatens Mexico's biggest cash source
Trump has vowed to get Mexico to pay for the wall. But Mexican government officials have denied that will happen.
The wall isn't the only thing Trump is doing to toughen border and immigration enforcement. He wants to construct more detention facilities near the Mexican border.
Trump also wants to hire an additional 5,000 workers for the Customs and Border Patrol Agency, which had an annual budget of more than $13 billion last year.
The Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency, which arrests and deports undocumented immigrants, had a budget of $6.2 billion.
It's not clear how much it would cost to hire, train and pay additional staff. But Trump cannot authorize any budget increases unilaterally. For that, he'll need the approval of Congress.
That tip-off, first reported by The Wall Street Journal, likely gave employees time to hide evidence that would have alerted internal investigators to the opening of fake accounts.
For instance, more than a dozen Wells Fargo employees told the Journal they witnessed documents being forged and papers getting shredded to cover up this activity.
Regulators have said that as many as 2 million bank and credit card accounts were opened by Wells Fargo without authorization, at times by using phony email addresses and PIN numbers.
 Wells Fargo admits to signs of worker retaliation
Wells Fargo (WFC) confirmed to CNNMoney on Wednesday the existence of a 24-hour advance notice, explaining it's given "so the branch can ensure it is staffed to assist with the review and maintain customer experience."
Wells Fargo has now decided to eliminate the 24-hour warning about inspections.
But even that shift is coming with a time lag. Wells Fargo said it won't be fully implemented until the end of March.
A spokeswoman declined to say whether the move was triggered by media attention.
Wells Fargo noted that much of its documentation has become electronic, including electronically-captured signatures. The bank said that for years it has reviewed digital copies of new account forms and signature cards in advance of branch visits and without prior notice.
For the in-branch reviews, Wells Fargo said only internal branch logs that are not currently captured electronically are looked at. That includes logs for cash shipment and notary activity.
 Wells Fargo is closing over 400 bank branches
The fake account scandal has thrust Wells Fargo into turmoil since it broke in September. The $185 million in fines were nothing in comparison with two Congressional hearings, where the bank's CEO was raked through the coals.
It also led to multiple investigations from state and federal agencies, which are still ongoing. Longtime CEO John Stumpf abruptly retired after his Congressional hearings and the bank's once-vaunted reputation has been tarnished.
Wells Fargo has responded by ending the wildly unrealistic sales goals that employees said led to the illegal activity.
The bank's new compensation structure, rolled out earlier this month, puts more emphasis on customer service and features stronger oversight "to monitor behavior," including at the local level.
For instance, Wells Fargo has launched a mystery shopper program at branches that by definition doesn't give employees any advance notice.
"People in the branch don't even know that any review is going on," the Wells Fargo spokeswoman said.
Wells Fargo aims to conduct about 4,000 mystery shops per quarter this year.
During the scandal, Wells Fargo also started conducting conduct risk exams at branches. Wells Fargo said these reviews are unannounced and the branches are selected for exams based on risk indicators.
"Everyone told us it couldn't be done," Shapiro said.
With hardly any eyewear production done in U.S., he faced a challenge to find the right machines and skilled workers to make it work.
For 40 years, Shapiro's family owned a eyeglasses wholeshale business in Chicago and imported them from overseas. The frames were ultimately sold at optical shops nationwide.
But five years ago, Shapiro devised a new plan.

"Why not make eyeframes in the U.S.?" he said. "I was waiting for the business to reach a point where we could afford to take the risk."
That tipping point happened in 2012. Shapiro and his wife Amanda -- together with a few business partners -- self-funded and launched a second company, State Optical Co.
 Chinese manufacturers are setting up shop in the U.S.
Now, the company, which makes high-end eyeframes priced between $300 and $350, is housed in a 10,000 square feet factory in Vernon Hills, Chicago.
With the help of 50 workers and state of the art machinery, its first products hit the market in February 2016. They're now selling in over 500 optical stores nationwide.

But Shapiro had to overcome several obstacles to make this happen.
"No foreign company with [eyeframe] manufacturing expertise would partner with us," he said. "They declined because they thought we wouldn't be successful."
Shapiro traveled the country to find local expertise. He subsequently met entrepreneurial cousins Marc Franchi and Jason Stanley in California and formed a partnership.
"They were making small batches of handcrafted high-quality frames basically out of their garage," he said.
The cousins relocated to Chicago to help get State Optical off the ground, and the company hired an eyeframes designer, who was a former optometrist.
 This Denver-based manufacturer is rebuilding workers' lives
Setting up the factory was a challenge, too. Citing difficulties finding the right machinery in the U.S., Shapiro ordered the machines from overseas. This turned into a lengthy process. Considering the instructions weren't in English, it took the team awhile to figure out how to use the equipment and train the workers.

Finding skilled labor was the next hurdle. About half of the the firm's workers were previously employed in the auto or jewelry industries and underwent extensive training to learn how to make eyewear.
Each eyeglass frame, made from a sheet of acetate, requires 75 steps from start to finish. About half of the process is done by hand.
 Trump's win pushed this tech manufacturer to return to the U.S.
The startup, which pays an average salary of up to $15 an hour, gives full benefits, such as healthcare and paid vacation, to workers.
Shapiro hopes the move will inspire other entrepreneurs to move eyewear production to the U.S..
"[State Optical] started with the belief that we could manufacture this product in the country. and put Americans to work," he said. "For most who buy our eyeframes, it will be the first time wearing U.S.-made eyewear."
"They will reimburse us for the cost of the wall. That will happen, whether it's a tax or a payment -- probably less likely that it's a payment, but it will happen," Trump said on January 11.
But Mexico's president won't stand for it.
"We must assure the free flow of remittances," President Enrique Pena Nieto said Monday. Remittances are "an invaluable contribution to national development and indispensable for millions of Mexican families."
Remittances were likely a top issue on the table when Mexico's top ministers met with Trump's advisers in Washington Wednesday. Trump and Pena Nieto are scheduled to meet on January 31.
 A new NAFTA deal could bring jobs back -- at a cost
Between January and November of 2016, $24.6 billion flowed back to the pockets of Mexicans from friends and relatives living overseas, according to Mexico's central bank.
That's even higher than what Mexico earns from its oil exports -- $23.2 billion in 2015. And almost all of that cash comes from the U.S.
The average remittance from Mexico is about $300. Essentially, Mexico's most lucrative natural resource are the people who leave home.
Remittances help drive Mexico's economy, from paying for new home construction to schools, especially in low-income areas. The cash transfers from the U.S. have also been growing faster than wages and inflation. And it's a critical time for Mexico's economy, which is showing signs of weakness.
With Mexico's currency, the peso, near an all-time low, its economy only grew 2.2% last year, Mexico's finance minister says. Trump's threats are only going to make it worse -- the IMF estimates Mexico will only grow 1.7% this year.
On top of slower growth, the government hiked gas prices by as much as 20% at the start of the year as part of an energy deregulation policy. That's sparked widespread protests and looting.
 Could the U.S. and Canada leave Mexico behind?
All to say: Dollars mean a lot to many Mexicans and they're becoming more and more valuable. Taxing or halting that flow of cash could negatively impact millions of Mexicans.
But experts caution that even if Trump halts or taxes remittances, Mexicans will still find ways to get cash over the border without paying a tax.
Alberto Ramos, head of Latin America research at Goldman Sachs (GS), says that when wire services charged high fees a decade ago, Mexicans still got their money across the border either in-person, through the mail or via traveling relatives.
"If you tax that money it won't necessarily stay in the U.S. It can still go to Mexico through informal channels," says Ramos.
Mnuchin responded cautiously, but made no mention of the dire need to audit the Fed that Senators Ted Cruz and Rand Paul -- and Trump -- have voiced.
"As you know, the Federal Reserve is organized with sufficient independence to conduct monetary policy," Mnuchin wrote.
Trump's Treasury pick added, "I endorse the increased transparency we have seen from the Federal Reserve Board over recent years."
An audit would allow the General Accountability Office to review the Fed's decisions on raising and lowering interest rates -- a critical tool the Fed uses to encourage growth or keep the economy from overheating.
Compare Mnuchin's statements with pre-election comments made by Mnuchin's future boss. Last February, Trump said on Twitter that it's "so important to audit The Federal Reserve."
Trump even called out Cruz for missing a January vote on an "Audit the Fed" bill.
It is so important to audit The Federal Reserve, and yet Ted Cruz missed the vote on the bill that would allow this to be done.

 Trump Treasury pick: 'I have been maligned'
Mnuchin's carefully-crafted answer should come as a relief to those who fear that auditing the Fed would be a terrible idea.
"When I saw the quote, I took a lot of comfort in it. There is someone in a key position who is trying to calm things down," said Jeffrey Shafer, who worked at the Federal Reserve for more than a decade.
Shafer said history shows that when central banks become subject to political pressure, they "serve the short-term interests of who's running for office instead of focusing on a stable economy."
He should know. Shafer served at the Fed in the 1970s during a time that the central bank was very slow to tackle skyrocketing inflation. Many later blamed political pressure from the Nixon White House on the Fed not to raise rates more rapidly.
Ironically, Trump has said he thinks today's Fed is actually too political.
During the first presidential debate in September, Trump said that under Janet Yellen the "Fed is being more political than Secretary Clinton." Speaking on CNBC, Trump also said Yellen should be "ashamed of herself" for keeping rates artificially low.
Yellen has defended the Fed against these attacks. During the Fed's last pre-election meeting, Yellen vowed to "lead an institution that's not political" and insisted the central bank is "not politically compromised."
 Fix, don't kill, the Volcker Rule
Mnuchin's Fed comments are another sign that the former Goldman Sachs banker could serve as a moderate voice inside the Trump administration.
During his confirmation hearing, Mnuchin said he supports the Volcker Rule, the post-crisis rule that prevent banks big banks from making risky bets with their own money. Instead of killing the rule as GOP legislation would do, Mnuchin suggested reforming it.
Mnuchin also said he believes the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, the watchdog agency inspired by Elizabeth Warren, is worth keeping.
--CNNMoney's Patrick Gillespie, Heather Long and Paul R. La Monica contributed to this report.
Snickers wouldn't say what the commercial will be about, but it did drop some hints in four teaser videos posted to YouTube. It seems there will be a western theme, some type of showdown, a dead cowboy and stunt horses.
This is the sixth Super Bowl to feature Snickers ads -- past commercials starred actors Betty White, Willem Dafoe and Danny Trejo.
This year's 30-second ad will air during the first commercial break in the third quarter of Super Bowl LI.

 Super Bowl gives small businesses a chance to score
Snickers will also have a 36-hour livestream from the commercial set, which will run from 12 pm ET on Feb. 2 until midnight on Feb. 3. The livestream will feature appearances by celebrities and social media personalities.
"Every year we challenge ourselves to find new ways to satisfy our fans hunger for entertainment by delivering something new and breakthrough, and there is no better way than being the first to have a Super Bowl live ad," said Snickers brand director Allison Miazga-Bedrick.
The U.S. is in better shape. Only 16% of those surveyed said they have no savings, compared to 32% last year.
But of those Americans who say they have savings, 41% have less than three months' salary stashed away. According to another survey released earlier this month, nearly six in 10 Americans don't even have enough savings to cover unplanned expenses of $500 or $1,000.
The ING survey said that nearly half of those who are saving less, or drawing on their savings, are spending the money on everyday household items because of the rising cost of living.
6 in 10 Americans don't have $500 in savings
Only 24% said they had tapped their rainy day funds to buy luxury items, such as a holiday or car.
ING found that 41% of people surveyed are saving less because of low interest rates.
"I really don't get much of a strong, articulated sense from the administration of what they want to get out of a NAFTA renegotiation," says Joshua Meltzer, a trade expert at the Brookings Institution.
Meltzer and other experts have a few ideas about how Trump could change NAFTA to benefit U.S. workers.
But they caution: If a new NAFTA deal creates American winners, it'll create American losers too. In a nutshell, manufacturing workers could benefit at the expense of U.S. consumers and companies.
Here are their suggestions for a deal:
1. Require more car parts to be sourced from the U.S.
2. Require better labor and environmental standards in Mexico -- make Mexico more expensive, really.
3. Force Mexico to end its value-added tax.
 Will the U.S. and Canada leave Mexico behind?
1. Make more in NAFTA!
Cars are by far the biggest export from Mexico to the U.S. A rule in NAFTA requires that any cars being sold in America -- or Canada or Mexico -- have 62.5% of parts from those three countries. It's called "rules of origin."
The rest of the car parts can come from anywhere else in the world. Trump's team wants to change that.
"We want tighter rules of origin," Peter Navarro, director of the White House National Trade Council, told CNBC Wednesday morning.
What Navarro probably means: Increase that percentage, forcing companies to source more of their parts and materials from Canada, Mexico and the U.S.
"It's quite plausible they could raise that number and that very likely would mean more parts would be sourced in the United States, which would mean more jobs," says Gary Clyde Hufbauer, a trade expert at the Peterson Institute of International Economics.
But there's a catch, experts stress. If you force car companies like Ford (F) and GM (GM) to use more U.S. parts, that will likely raise car prices for ordinary Americans.
People would be paying more for cars and would then have less cash to spend on other goods. That could cost jobs in other industries. That's how it played out in the past.
It could also make some companies less competitive globally. By forcing them to source more expensive U.S. car parts, they will face the challenge of competing with foreign car companies that don't face that restriction.
"It will result in some increase in U.S. jobs at the expense of other sectors and of consumers," says Alan Deardorff, a trade expert at the University of Michigan.
Navarro, Trump's trade adviser, said Wednesday that any price increases would be "relatively modest" and wouldn't have a major negative impact on ordinary Americans.
Exactly how many jobs would come back is anyone's guess. And it's possible this rule change could backfire on Trump and cost more jobs than it brings back by raising consumer prices.
 All those coal jobs aren't coming back
2. Make it more expensive to manufacture in Mexico
Another way to encourage companies to bring back jobs is to level the playing field with Mexico. That means raise labor standards in Mexico by setting a limit on hours worked per week, ensuring workers are safe, the factories are meeting environmental standards and workers are paid more.
It's actually something Democrats often advocate for.
"Better labor standards would be good first and foremost for Mexicans. It's the morally right thing to do," says Scott Sinclair, a trade expert at the Canadian Centre for Policy Alternatives.
The same goes for environmental laws. Some companies move jobs to Mexico because the air and water protection laws aren't as strong and companies can get away without paying a major penalty. Raising the bar on environmental laws in Mexico could convince companies to move jobs back.
But experts say that it still doesn't guarantee more jobs -- if companies decide to build more factories in the U.S., many of the jobs will be done by hi-tech robots, rather than humans.
In short: tougher regulations in Mexico could be good morally and could bring jobs back. But there's no guarantee the same number of jobs getting axed in Mexico would be the same number arriving in the U.S.
 Argentina tried a Trump-like tariff. It didn't go well.
3. Tell Mexico to end its value-added tax
Trump hit this point hard on the campaign trail.
Mexico charges a 16% value-added tax (VAT) to companies operating in Mexico -- whether they are American or Mexican.
But Trump has called the tax unfair. Experts disagree and say Mexico's VAT is not much of a barrier. About 160 countries have a VAT. Canada has one. The United States does not.
Forcing Mexico to end its VAT would bring back "some [jobs], but not many," says Hufbauer.
For their part, Mexico and Canada want a deal that benefits them too. Experts say Trump should be prepared to offer concessions to them if he wants a new deal. Mexico's economy minister even warned Tuesday that Mexico could withdraw from NAFTA if a new deal isn't as good as the current one.
Almost all options risk messing up global supply chains which depend on free trade to function. Disrupting that web of businesses could have several ripple effects on the U.S. economy, some expected and others unforeseen.
 Boom - Dow hits 20,000 for the first time
The index is based on the price of 30 stocks, the composition of which is tweaked occasionally to adjust for changes in the economy and the companies themselves. Today's Dow includes technology and healthcare stocks, for example. Past staples like steel and tobacco are no longer represented.
 Biggest threats to the Trump market rally
Here are some mileposts along the Dow's road to 20,000:
Dow is formed: The first daily close, on May 26, 1896, was 40.94. The Dow did not start well, plunging 30% to an all-time low of 28.48 by August that year.
Dow 100: The Dow first closed in triple digits on Jan. 1906. That marked an impressive rally for the average, which had hit an all-time low when Teddy Roosevelt was president. The Federal Reserve would not be created for seven more years.

Crash of 1929: The Dow fell 38 points on Oct. 28 and 31 more points the next day. That might not sound bad today, but it represented back-to-back declines of 13% and 12% of the Dow's value. Those are still two of the worst one-day percentage declines in the index's history.
Dow 1,000: Nov. 14, 1972. Richard Nixon had just won re-election by taking 49 states. The Dow's components, which had been unchanged for 13 years, included Woolworth, Eastman Kodak and International Nickel.
Crash of 1987: On Oct. 19, the Dow plunged 508 points, a 23% drop, still the largest one-day percentage decline in history. A week later it took an 8% plunge. But the damage was short-lived: Within a year, the Dow was back to pre-crash levels.

Dow 10,000: March 29, 1999. The "irrational exuberance" of the tech bubble was in full gear as the Dow gained 1,000 points in less than a year to hit this benchmark. It gained 1,000 more points in just the next month. A year later, the tech bubble burst, sending the Dow down nearly 30% by September 2001.
 Today's Dow is a lot different from just 20 years ago
Meltdown of 2008-2009: The financial crisis caused the Dow to lose about half its value in less than a year, bottoming at a closing low of 6,547 on March 9, 2009. The worst day was Sept. 29, 2008, when the Dow lost a record 778 points after Congress rejecting a $700 billion bank bailout. The bailout was later approved.
Dow 15,000: May 7, 2013. During one of its strongest periods of the current bull market, it took the Dow only two months to climb from 14,000 to 15,000. The jump from 19,000 to 20,000 also took about two months.
"The stock market has given him this extraordinary vote of approval. Happy days are here again," said Ed Yardeni, president of Yardeni Research.
Wall Street is clearly betting that Trump's plans to slash taxes, ramp up infrastructure spending and cut regulation will make the American economy grow faster. If that happens, without any disruptions to global trade, it could propel corporate profits, the lifeblood of stock prices.
 The Dow's long road to 20,000
But the jump in stocks is also a reflection of the solid economy Trump inherited from former President Obama. The U.S. has added jobs for a record 75 straight months and the unemployment rate is sitting near a 10-year low.
The Dow 20,000 milestone also shows how much has changed in the U.S. economy over the past eight years. The index crashed to a low of 6,440 in March 2009 as Wall Street feared a complete collapse of the American financial system.
The astounding 13,500-point rise since then has been fueled by a consistent, albeit imperfect, economic recovery combined with the U.S. central bank's massive stimulus program and near-0% interest rates.
While the economic rebound from the Great Recession has been slower than many hoped, the unemployment rate is now at the lowest level since 2007 and corporate profits have climbed to record highs.
"The economy has come a long way in eight years. Overall, it's a healthier economy and does justify a much higher stock market than eight years ago," said David Kelly, chief global strategist at JPMorgan Funds.

 Biggest threats to the Trump market rally
Few expected the Dow to rise so much, especially after a Trump victory. In fact, many feared a market crash if Trump upset Hillary Clinton.
Instead, Wall Street embarked on a very impressive post-election rally that carried the Dow above both the 19,000 and 20,000 levels. CNNMoney's Fear & Greed Index is flashing "greed," a vast improvement from "extreme fear" mere days before the election. The VIX (VIX), a gauge of volatility in the markets, has dropped to the lowest level since July 2014.
But the Trump rally cooled off in recent months and Wall Street hit a bit of a psychological roadblock leading up to the 20,000 level. On January 6, the Dow got incredibly close, rising to 19,999.63 before backing off. Traders on Wall Street had fun with it, with some creating hats that said: "Dow Almost 20,000."
One reason for the pause: investors want more details on the timing and effectiveness of the stimulus plans rolled out by the new administration.
"We've scaled this peak. We're going to enjoy this view for a while and hit the pause button," said Joe Quinlan, chief market strategist at U.S. Trust.
 Today's Dow is a lot different from just 20 year ago
Bank stocks have been among the biggest winners during the post-election party on Wall Street. JPMorgan Chase (JPM) and Morgan Stanley (MS) have soared more than 20%, while Goldman Sachs (GS) is up nearly 30%, as investors bet on higher interest rates and less regulation under Trump.
But JPMorgan's Kelly worries that "markets seem to be pricing in the positives, and not worrying too much about the negatives" such as a potential trade war or fiscal stimulus that overheats the economy.
Quinlan agrees that trade remains a serious risk given Trump's anti-trade rhetoric during the campaign. Already, Trump has scrapped the TPP trade deal and plans to swiftly start renegotiating NAFTA.
"We need open borders, open trade and open flow of capital. If we start going down this deglobalization road, this market is going to lose its euphoric underpins pretty quickly," Quinlan said.
Yardeni said the jury is still out on whether the enthusiasm on Wall Street is overdone.
"Is the market irrationally exuberant or will Trump prevail in a way that's bullish for the economy?" he asked. "The bottom line on Trump is: love him or hate him, you don't want to bet against him."
It was the day before applications were due, but they went for the "hail mary."
"We'd lost all our paperwork in the fire, but were able to get copies and apply just in time," she said.
Since getting accepted, the James have landed a catering job at this year's Super Bowl and plan to also have their food trucks outside of the game.
"Our business has grown tremendously," James said. "We just hired five new chefs and just purchased two more food trucks."
 Fox nixes Super Bowl ad with 'controversial' wall
Over 300 Houston businesses were selected through the program for Super Bowl LI.
The Business Connect program centers around the Super Bowl and connects local businesses with larger NFL contractors. In order to qualify, businesses must be 51% owned by a minority, a woman, a disabled veteran or an LGBT individual.
The program gives small businesses a chance to gain exposure and make contacts that can extend beyond the Super Bowl.
Sara Brook and her staff at Dessert Gallery Bakery & Cafe attended all of the Business Connect events and have landed two catering contracts for Super Bowl LI.
"Were it not for Business Connect, we'd be just another Houston bakery," said Brook, whose cafe has been around since 1995.
She is hoping the contacts she's made through the program will be long-term partners.

 NFL denies it asked Lady Gaga to stay silent on Trump
It has been a long term success for Shane Connor, the Hispanic owner of Advanced Technologies in Electrical and Communications. He's now a regular player in the Super Bowl.
His first gig was at Super Bowl XLVI in Indianapolis. He's now worked every Super Bowl since 2012 and also works international games and the draft.
"The program was the catalyst for growing my business," he said. "All the relationships I now have, I definitely attribute to the program."
Conner said the program gave him confidence. "I started as just an electrician, but it challenged every aspect of my business and I really bloomed," he said.
Conner landed a contract with the company that sets up fiber optic cabling for the NFL. In 2012, his company was making around $1 million. Now it's making $6.5 million.
"As a kid you dream of playing the Super Bowl," Conner said. "I'm not a football player, but that doesn't mean I wasn't a huge success at the Super Bowl -- I did everything my job required to succeed."
Mexico-based cement firm Cemex (CX) stock surged by 4%.
Trump on Tuesday signed executive actions to advance the approval of two controversial oil pipelines -- Dakota Access and Keystone XL. His decision reverses efforts by former President Obama to block their construction.
Before the Bell newsletter: Key market news. In your inbox. Subscribe now!
2. Investors cheer: Global stock markets are rallying right now and U.S. stock futures are pushing up. Investors are still feeling positive about Trump's pro-business agenda.
European markets are rising in early trading, with many indexes up by about 1%. Most Asian markets ended the day with gains.
The S&P 500 and Nasdaq both hit record highs on Wednesday. The Dow Jones industrial average climbed 0.6%. It's now less than 100 points away from the much-hyped 20,000 level.
The financial and materials sectors performed particularly well on Tuesday.
"This is significant, as both materials and financial stocks have been sensitive to market expectations around the Trump administration's ability to deliver growth," said Kathleen Brooks, research director at City Index.
3. Earnings galore: Boeing (BA), United Technologies (UTX) and Progressive (PGR) are releasing earnings before the open Wednesday.
Then AT&T (T, Tech30), eBay (EBAY) and Qualcomm (QCOM, Tech30) will release earnings after the close.
AT&T investors will be listening for news on its takeover of CNN's parent company, Time Warner (TWX). Trump -- who previously said he was opposed to the deal -- recently met with AT&T CEO Randall Stephenson, although the takeover did not come up in their talks.
Download CNN MoneyStream for up-to-the-minute market data and news
4. Cisco takeover: Cisco (CSCO, Tech30) is in the spotlight after the firm said it's taking over AppDynamics, a private company, for approximately $3.7 billion.
Shares in Cisco are expected to rise a bit at the open.
5. Coming this week:
Wednesday - Boeing (BA) and AT&T (T, Tech30) earnings Thursday - Microsoft (MSFT, Tech30), Alphabet (GOOGL, Tech30), Ford (F), and Starbucks (SBUX) earnings Friday - First reading of fourth-quarter U.S. GDP
Taking the job with the Trump administration means he has to cut his financial ties to Goldman to satisfy government ethics rules. In a filing late Tuesday, the investment bank mapped out how that's happening.
 Goldman' No. 2 is Trump's top economic adviser
Goldman says it paid Cohn $65 million in cash for long-term bonuses he was owed. It also sped up stock awards worth $35 million and lifted restrictions on $23 million in locked-up Goldman shares so Cohn could sell them.
Although the total works out at more than $123 million, the amount Cohn will end up with will be lower because of taxes.

It's not a bad time to be selling out of Goldman stock: the bank's shares are trading near their highest level in years after rallying along with those of other banks following Trump's election victory.
And the flow of money doesn't end there: Cohn also has to cash out his stakes in private equity and hedge funds run by Goldman. The bank didn't say how much those investments are worth.
Goldman wasn't immediately available for comment outside of office hours.
 Will Rex Tillerson get a tax break on his big Exxon payout?
The announcement of Cohn's big exit package follows the roughly $180 million payout that Trump's secretary of state pick, Rex Tillerson, is set to receive from ExxonMobil (XOM), the oil giant he used to run.
Known for his financial market savvy, Cohn was seen as the heir apparent to Goldman CEO Lloyd Blankfein.

With Blankfein showing no sign of stepping back from the top job, Cohn accepted Trump's offer to run his economic council.
He's expected to act as the president's quarterback on the economy, coordinating policymaking between various agencies and programs to ensure it's in line with the administration's goals. The NEC chief works inside the White House and helps frame the debate on the biggest economic issues.
 Donald Trump's curious Goldman Sachs connections
Cohn isn't the only Goldman alum chosen by Trump, who held up the bank as a symbol of the corrupt establishment during his campaign.
Others include Treasury secretary pick Steven Mnuchin, chief strategist Steve Bannon and Anthony Scaramucci, who will serve as a liaison between Trump and the business world.
The bank has also provided high-profile members of previous administrations.
President George W. Bush famously tapped then-Goldman CEO Hank Paulson to lead Treasury in 2006, and President Bill Clinton named Robert Rubin, another longtime Goldman exec, as his Treasury secretary.
-- Matt Egan contributed to this report.
Economists find this pattern concerning. For decades, the unemployment rate has been one of the basic barometers by which America's economy is judged. While no single metric is infallible, economists say, the unemployment rate does a pretty good job.
And they say trying to delegitimize it would be bad news.
"I think it's very, very dangerous. The Bureau of Labor Statistics does an excellent job," said Bill Rodgers, a professor at Rutgers' Center for Workforce Development and chief economist for the Labor Department from 2000 to 2001.
Bob Murphy, a White House economist under former President Bill Clinton who teaches at Boston College, said the process and statistical analysis that go into producing the unemployment rate are "rock solid."
When Spicer was asked to provide the national unemployment rate at Monday's briefing, he skirted the question -- and wouldn't say an official number for the record.
"Too often in Washington we get our heads wrapped around a number and a statistic," Spicer said. "And we ... forget the faces and the families and the businesses that are behind those numbers."
The president, he said, is "not focused on statistics as much as he is on whether or not the American people are doing better as a whole."
 Truth about Trump's claim that 94 million aren't working
Steven Mnuchin, Trump's pick for Treasury secretary, also questioned the validity of the current measure during his confirmation hearing last week. "The average American worker has gone nowhere," he said. "The unemployment rate is not real."
During the campaign, Trump himself inveighed against the unemployment rate with far more colorful language.
"The 5% figure is one of the biggest hoaxes in American modern politics," Trump said during a speech in August, when unemployment was at 4.9%.
It has fallen even further since, to 4.7% in December. In October 2009, just after the end of the Great Recession, unemployment was as high as 10%. That's one of the ways economists know just how bad the downturn was.
Labor nominee's record of skepticism
This skepticism will likely be compounded if fast food CEO Andrew Puzder is confirmed by the Senate to lead the Labor Department. Part of his job would be to oversee the Bureau of Labor Statistics, which publishes the unemployment rate on the first Friday of each month.
Since 2012, Puzder has written or co-written a host of op-eds blasting the bureau's method for crunching national job numbers. He claims it exaggerated the economic recovery under former President Obama.
"The official unemployment rate taken alone has become a very poor indicator of economic growth," Puzder wrote in a 2012 op-ed for the conservative website Human Events, though few economists look at the measure in isolation.
Puzder's beef is that someone who stops looking for work is no longer considered part of the labor force, and therefore not reflected in the unemployment rate. He has also noted that the measurement ignores people with part-time jobs who may want full-time jobs.
"The numbers seem inconsistent with what people are experiencing and many people are simply losing interest," Puzder co-wrote in a 2013 op-ed for conservative site Townhall.
This, in and of itself, isn't novel criticism.
"I think that's exactly right. It's too much to ask of any one statistic that it would tell you everything you want to know in a very complicated labor market," said Katharine Abraham, BLS commissioner between 1993 and 2001, during the Clinton administration.
But the Labor Department publishes statistics each month that account for part-time work and discouraged workers who have stopped looking for a job. Today that figure -- one measure of underemployment -- is 9.2%. The figure hit 17.1% in October 2009.
Puzder says the Bureau of Labor Statistics should use a different ratio: The growth in the total number of jobs over the past year divided by the growth in the population over the same time, excluding people who are institutionalized.
The idea is to track whether job creation is keeping pace with population growth -- and it supports Puzder's conclusion that unemployment under Obama was more dismal than the official figures showed.
According to Puzder, the growth ratio for the recovery period has been 0.96. In other words, job growth on average didn't keep up with population growth.
"In a real recovery, the economy creates enough jobs to repair the damage done and keep up with population growth," Puzder and Michael Talent, a recent college grad who served as an economic adviser to Mitt Romney's presidential campaign, wrote in National Review in 2013 in an article headlined "Fire the BLS's Unemployment Rate."
How the government compiles its numbers
It would be unusual for an administration to talk down the numbers its own employees are tallying. The government has used the same basic method for calculating national unemployment -- a monthly survey -- since 1940. The BLS is transparent about its methodology, and economists put a lot of stock in it even though it doesn't paint a full picture of the economy.
Each month, the Census Bureau contacts 60,000 sample households, carefully selected to reflect geographic, industrial and agricultural diversity. Census workers ask questions to determine whether respondents have a job, are looking for a job or are not currently seeking work. Survey responses are adjusted to reflect the country's demographics.
People with a part-time or full-time job are considered employed, while people who are jobless, looking for a job and available for work are considered unemployed. The employed and unemployed make up the labor force. Those who have no job and are not looking for one are not considered part of the labor force.
The unemployment rate is the number of unemployed people as a percentage of the labor force.
Economists trust this metric -- and say knocking it down would be a big problem.
"You don't want to throw out the baby with the bathwater," Rodgers said.
Industry professionals say it does its job as well as any single measure could.
"Not only has the average American come to rely on their understanding of the employment rate, but people like me have come to expect certain data streams," said Russell Price, senior economist at financial planning company Ameriprise Financial.
Besides, they point out, the BLS already publishes data that addresses Puzder's concerns with the official unemployment rate.
And Puzder's growth ratio has its own problems. As the Baby Boomer generation gets older, many people are leaving the workforce not because they are discouraged but because they are retiring. Puzder's statistic wouldn't reflect that.
"If you actually adjust for demographics, it's not going to look like there's that much slack in the economy," Murphy said. In labor economics, "slack" refers in part to the people who could be working but aren't.
In 2014, the New York Federal Reserve put out a report highlighting this concern. Turning Puzder's criticism on its head, it said that, in fact, the employment-to-population ratio is "a misleading indicator for the degree of the labor market recovery."
"When you move to a block grant, do you still have the right?" Menendez asked.
"No," Price said. "I think it would be determined by how that was set up."
 HHS nominee Tom Price grilled again by Democrats
The question of what to do with Medicaid -- particularly how to handle the low-income adults who gained coverage thanks to Obamacare's expansion provision -- came up repeatedly during the hearing. Trump senior adviser Kellyanne Conway said Sunday on ABC News that the president is looking at turning Medicaid into a block grant program.
Block grants would give more power over to the states to decide how to give out Medicaid funds and, experts say, reduce overall federal spending.
 Conway: Obamacare replacement includes Medicaid block grants
Democratic senators defended the existing program, which they called crucial for many disabled Americans and low-income pregnant women, children and senior citizens. Nearly 73 million Americans are on Medicaid or the related Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP). Under Obamacare, low-income adults are now allowed to sign up for Medicaid in states that expanded their programs.
Republicans have long wanted to turn Medicaid funding into a block grant or a per-capita grant, where states receive a fixed sum for each participant. Several of the Obamacare repeal plans that have been floated in Congress -- including Price's 2015 Empowering Patients First legislation -- also call for eliminating Medicaid expansion.
Trump listed turning Medicaid into a block grant program on his campaign and transition websites, and Conway's comments Sunday affirmed that it's on the top of the new president's list.
Democrats fought back at Tuesday's hearing.
"I feel like the Administration is creating a war on Medicaid," said Senator Maria Cantwell.
Price acknowledged Medicaid is vital, but said it is troubled. Later, he said that the federal government should leave it to governors and state insurance commissioners on how best to cover their low-income residents. But he said he supports making sure that any replacement bill would provide coverage options for every American, including those now at or near Medicaid eligibility.
 Why GOP governors like Medicaid under Obamacare. Hint: $
Block grant proposals usually provide more flexibility for states to tailor their programs to their residents' needs. While the federal government has set a floor for who must be covered and what services must be provided, states currently have some leeway to widen eligibility to more people and to cover more services. They can also impose some requirements to qualify for care, such as mandating co -payments, though the Obama administration has turned down some governors' requests.
Since one goal of block grants is to slow the growth of health care spending, states could likely wind up with less funding than they have now. Then they would have to choose how many residents to cover and what benefits to provide.
Supporters worry that will erode the safety net that the nation's largest health care program provides.
 Trump and Obamacare: Where we go from here
"It's telling states, here's the amount of money we'll give you. You figure out how to take care of 70 million people," said Sara Rosenbaum, professor of health policy at George Washington University.
But those who want to reform the program say that block grants will force states to be more efficient in covering their low-income residents and end the incentive for states to pad their programs in order to receive more federal funding. Medicaid and CHIP cost $532 billion in fiscal 2015, with the federal government shouldering 63% of the bill and states paying 37%.
Lowering the cost of care makes the program more affordable, which would potentially allow states to cover more people, said Paul Howard, director of health policy at the Manhattan Institute.
Governors, however, are mixed on the idea of block grants. While they are eager to gain more control over their Medicaid programs, many are not so hot on any kind of cap on federal funding.
In a letter to House Republicans, the National Governors Association urged lawmakers to make sure any reform proposals protect states from unforeseen financial risks in their Medicaid programs, such as a recession, an epidemic or costly new treatments.
"In considering changes to Medicaid financing, it is critical that Congress continue to maintain a meaningful federal role in this partnership and does not shift costs to states," Virginia Democratic Governor Terry McAuliffe, the association's chair, and Nevada's Republican Governor Brian Sandoval, its vice chair, wrote Tuesday.
Editor's Note: This story originally noted that Medicaid cost $509 billion for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2015. It's been updated to reflect the data for federal fiscal year 2015, which ended Sept. 30, 2015.
Senator Bill Nelson, the ranking Democrat on the Senate Commerce Committee, wrote Ross a letter asking him to "safeguard the department's scientists from political interference, intimidation and censorship."
Ross responded in a letter on Monday night that emphasized he believes "science should be left to scientists."
"Barring some national security concern, I see no valid reason to keep peer reviewed research from the public," Ross wrote. He added, "To be clear, by peer review I mean scientific review and not a political filter."
 Tillerson ducks Exxon climate change allegations
Ross said it's his intent to make sure the Commerce Department "provides the public with as much factual and accurate data as we have available."
He noted that public tax dollars support the scientific research and said he wants to continue to attract Nobel-prize winning scientists to the Commerce Department.
Nelson is concerned that Trump, who has said "nobody really knows" if climate change is real, could direct Ross to silence climate research.
"It's my hope that the White House will not hamstring Mr. Ross in carrying out this pledge," Nelson said on Tuesday.
Nelson tried to appeal to Ross's status as a resident of Florida, which he called "ground zero for sea level rise." He cited research showing that Florida's rate of sea level rise has accelerated to triple the global annual average.
"It's clear that climate change poses a grave risk to the economy and the environment of Florida and the nation," Nelson wrote.
While Ross said that he shares "concern" about the impact of rising sea levels on coastal areas, he stopped short of blaming it on climate change.
"We put aside for now the question of what is causing these changes, and agree to focus on addressing the impact of those changes," Ross wrote.
 Ross calls China the 'most protectionist country'
During his confirmation hearing, Ross used much stronger language on trade, especially to call out countries he believes are costing America jobs by cheating on trade.
The billionaire called China the "most protectionist country of very large countries" and warned that nations that don't play by the rules should "get punished -- and severely."
If confirmed, Ross will be looked at to help Trump carry out his promise to renegotiate NAFTA. During his confirmation hearing, Ross said NAFTA is "logically the first thing for us to deal with" and will be a "very, very early topic in this administration." He said "all aspects of NAFTA would be put on the table" and argued that trade agreements should be subject to re-opening after a few years.
The new president has already formally withdrawn from the Trans-Pacific Partnership, a controversial trade deal with Asian nations.
The city's home carriers - Emirates and flydubai -- also added more planes to their fleet, expanded their list of destinations and increased the frequency of flights to existing destinations, Griffiths said.
Dubai averaged 209 passengers per flight, the highest globally, he said.
 Etihad's CEO is out. What's next for the Gulf airline?
India is the largest single destination served by Dubai, followed by Saudi Arabia and the U.K. Despite the increase in traffic, growth slowed slightly last year.
"2016 was a extraordinary year in terms of global instability, particular political instability... which perhaps made people a little less adventurous in terms of their travel plans," said Griffiths.

Dubai still lags Atlanta and Beijing airports in terms of overall passenger numbers. They're a lot busier with domestic travel.
Dubai International airport is expecting 89 million passengers in 2017, but that target is dwarfed by the long term ambition of Dubai World Central -- the city's second airport which opened its doors to passengers in 2013.
A year later, a $32 billion expansion was announced to make it the biggest airport in the world with a capacity of 120 million passengers by 2025.
"There is the ability to gradually expand the size on a modular basis up to the design capacity of 240 [million]," Griffiths said.
A report by Oxford Economics estimates that Dubai's aviation sector will support more than one million jobs by 2030 and make up more than 40% of the emirate's gross domestic product.
South Africa's textile industry employed more than 200,000 people in 2001. That number has since fallen to 80,000.
Gelvenor has thrived where others failed by choosing to compete with global textile giants on quality rather than price, innovating constantly to develop existing fabrics.
"We use the Apple (AAPL, Tech30) model -- they didn't invent the cellphone but they mastered its use and that's what we do when we innovate," said Coetzee.

The company recently patented what it calls "revolutionary" fabric used to run conveyor belts in the mining sector. It hopes to secure local and international clients.
Gelvenor has had most success in the field of aeronautical fabrics -- used to make parachutes and hot air balloons -- ballistic textiles and fire resistant materials.
It was the first company in the world to manufacture low bulk, low volume parachutes and the first to use microfiber parachute yarns.
The parachute fabric is "thinner, lighter and stronger," which appeals to sports enthusiasts and the military, Coetzee said.

Gelvenor, based in Hammarsdale near Durban, began life in 1965 manufacturing synthetic fabrics. It now employs 280 people with annual sales of $28 million -- that's up 50% in five years, according to Coetzee.
Its biggest markets are Russia, the United States, Israel, Australia and China. The Middle East was also important but demand collapsed in tandem with oil prices since 2014.
U.S.-based Performance Designs was the biggest buyer of Gelvenor parachute fabric in 2016. The South African firm also supplies Russia's space program.
That decision to retreat from Obamacare came just a month after the Department of Justice blocked Aetna's $34 billion merger with Humana on antitrust grounds.
But Bates said this week the DOJ presented "persuasive support" -- including internal Aetna emails -- for the conclusion that Aetna (AET) withdrew from the Obamacare exchanges in those counties "to improve its litigation position."
"The Court does not credit the minimal efforts of Aetna executives to claim otherwise," Bates wrote in a ruling following a trial over the merger.
He added that Aetna's decision regarding participation in the 2017 exchanges in these counties was "in fact manipulated."
 Trump and Obamacare: Where we go from here
Aetna had warned the government it may need to dump then-President Obama's signature healthcare law if the U.S. scuttled its deal with Humana (HUM).
"It is very likely that we would need to leave the public exchange business entirely...should our deal ultimately be blocked," Aetna CEO Mark Bertolini wrote in a letter to the DOJ last July that was obtained by the Huffington Post.
However, Bates said it's clear that "Aetna tried to leverage its participation in the exchange for favorable treatment" from regulators.
The judge said there is "persuasive evidence" that when Aetna later withdrew from the 17 counties in question, "it did not do so for business reasons, but instead to follow through on the threat that it made earlier."
This critique was buried in a 158-page ruling issued by Bates on Monday, in which he blocked Aetna's merger with Humana due to anti-competitive concerns.
The ruling deals a big blow to both companies at a time of great uncertainty in the health care industry now that President Donald Trump has talked about rolling back several key provisions of Obamacare.
Aetna-Humana isn't the only big health care merger in doubt. The DOJ also sued to block the takeover of Cigna (CI) by Blue Cross Blue Shield leader Anthem (ANTX) for anti-competitive reasons.
Aetna declined to comment on specifics of the opinion, including the criticism from Bates, because it's still "reviewing the details."
 Even as they repeal Obamacare, Republicans still have to fund it
Last summer, Aetna explained its decision to withdraw from most Obamacare exchanges by saying its individual policies business had lost $430 million since the exchanges opened in January 2014.
However, the judge noted that Aetna kept its support for exchanges in money-losing states like Delaware, Iowa and Virginia -- but dumped Florida, even though that big state was projected to be profitable in 2016.
The ruling quoted an email from Christopher Ciano, president of Aetna's Florida market, to Jonathan Mayhew, head of Aetna's exchange business, showing how stunned he was by the decision to leave Florida.
"I just can't make sense out of the Florida decision. Never thought we would pull the plug all together," Ciano wrote, adding that Aetna was "making money from the on-exchange business."
Mayhew responded by requesting to discuss by phone "instead of email."
Bates said the response from the senior Aetna exec was an example of Aetna's "repeated efforts to conceal a paper trail about this decision-making."
--CNNMoney's Tami Luhby contributed to this report
A deal between Canada and the U.S. would be a huge blow to Mexico, which sends over 80% of its exports to the United States and Canada, its two biggest trade partners.
It would also present major challenges for U.S. companies that ship supplies in and out of the three countries seamlessly today.
Experts say tearing up trade ties with Mexico would cost jobs in each country but that Mexico would be hit hardest.
NAFTA, the free trade deal between the U.S., Canada and Mexico, is a trilateral or multilateral agreement.
Spicer's comments came after Canada's ambassador to the United States, David MacNaughton, suggested over the weekend that Canada too would consider bilateral trade talks with the U.S.
"We will cooperate on trilateral matters when it's in our interest and we'll be looking to do things that are in our interest bilaterally also," MacNaughton told reporters.
 Trump withdraws U.S. from TPP deal
During his campaign, Trump labeled NAFTA "the worst trade deal maybe ever signed anywhere," and he reiterated this week that talks on renegotiating NAFTA would begin soon. If talks don't go well, the White House says it plans to withdraw the U.S. from NAFTA.
Spicer later said that the fate of NAFTA would depend on Trump's upcoming meetings with Canada's Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, and Mexico's President Enrique Pena Nieto.
Canada's MacNaughton said he wants to make sure Canada doesn't become "collateral damage" if Trump tears up NAFTA.
"That's what we've got to worry about -- is if we're collateral damage," MacNaughton said.
Canada's minister of international trade, Chrystia Freeland, did not respond to a request for comment.
All three North American leaders spoke over the weekend, and each leader emphasized that any new trade deal should benefit all parties involved.
 Trump to begin renegotiating NAFTA
On Monday, Pena Nieto signaled support for NAFTA, but added that he would be open to a revised agreement as long as it benefited Mexico.
"We must preserve free trade between Canada, the United States and Mexico," Pena Nieto said in a speech.
But Mexico's economy minister said the country isn't signing up for a bad deal. Ildefonso Guajardo warned Tuesday Mexico could pull out of NAFTA if the terms of a revised deal are unfavorable.
"If we're going to go for something less than what we have, it makes no sense to stay," Guajardo said on the Mexican news show Despierta con Loret. "It's impossible to sell it here at home if there aren't clear benefits for Mexico."
Guajardo and other Mexican officials will meet with Trump's trade advisers later this week in Washington.
As for the U.S. and Canada, they have one of the world's largest trade relationships. In 2015, total trade between the two nations amounted to $662 billion.
America and Canada had a bilateral free trade agreement in place before NAFTA. In fact, it set the framework for NAFTA, which became law in 1994. The previous agreement was backed by President Ronald Reagan, and it was signed in 1987.
Experts say reverting to that previous, U.S.-Canada agreement would be easy to do on paper. However, the reality of reworking how businesses operate under NAFTA would be difficult since supply chains are spread across the three countries now.
"For the U.S. and Canada to exclude Mexico -- that would likely be a substantial upheaval to many companies' supply chains," says Scott Lincicome, a trade attorney at the law firm White & Case.
The alert was issued as part of a new monitoring system meant to raise awareness about pollution in London, which suffers from elevated levels of nitrogen dioxide and carbon particles more commonly associated with the industrializing mega cities of Asia.
 Air pollution could cost global economy $2.6 trillion a year
The problem is deadly serious.
London surpassed the EU's annual limit for nitrogen dioxide exposure just five days into the new year, according to King's College. The university estimates that air pollution is responsible for 9,400 premature deaths in London every year.
Khan has made cleaning London's air one of his top priorities. He wants to modernize the city's bus fleet so that new buses bought after 2018 will be electric or hydrogen-powered. He is trying to convince other major cities to do the same.
Death by pollution: Delhi's fight for clean air
The mayor is also pushing to introduce "ultra low emission zones" by 2019, a year earlier than originally planned. Only the cleanest vehicles would be allowed into these zones, with all other cars and buses facing steep emission charges.
The city has been investing in cycling projects and planting more trees for several years. And Khan, who took office in May, has also proposed making Oxford Street, one of London's top shopping areas, fully pedestrianized.
"The government urgently need to do their bit ... and bring in a new Clean Air Act that finally tackles this problem and means that Londoners don't have to be afraid of the air we breathe," Khan said.
The shameful state of London's toxic air today has triggered a 'very high' air pollution alert under my new air quality warning system. pic.twitter.com/cjHmNaAsnB

The mayor, however, has already suffered a series of setbacks.
The government approved a plan in October that will add a third runway at London's Heathrow. And the local council has opposed Khan's plan to pedestrianize Oxford Street, saying it is "unrealistic" and will only serve to divert traffic to surrounding residential streets.

This is not the first time London has battled against pollution. For decades, the city used to be known for its thick "pea soup fog."
In 1952, a thick December smog brought the city to a standstill and killed at least 4,000 people. Press reports from the time claimed that cattle had even been asphyxiated by the pollution.
The episode forced the government to pass the Clean Air Act of 1956, which banned emissions of black smoke and directed factory owners to use cleaner fuels. London's inner city coal power stations were closed in the 1980s.
The grocery chain added 12,000 employees last year, including 9,000 veterans. It has added more than 86,000 jobs over the past eight years and employs a total of 443,000 people in 35 states and Washington, D.C.
 Walmart adds 12,000 jobs
Kroger is facing tough online competition from Walmart and Amazon (AMZN, Tech30). Kroger and other grocers, like Whole Foods (WFM) and Supervalu (SVU), got squeezed last year by declining food prices.
But the overall job market continues to strengthen. The unemployment rate dipped to 4.7% in December, which was the 75th consecutive month of job gains.
"First and foremost, the President's been very, very clear that we need to direct agencies to focus on those who are in this country illegally and have a record, a criminal record or pose a threat to the American people. That's where the priority is going to be," said White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer on Monday.
Spicer did not provide any further specifics on the administration's plans, saying only that the administration would wait for Congress to act. "Give us a little bit of time, we 'll see what Congress moves forward with," he said.
 Trump immigration plan could cost the U.S. billions
Last week, Trump told Fox & Friends that his plan would be ready in a few months. "It's a plan that's going to be very firm, but it's going to have a lot of heart," Trump said. Trump also acknowledged this process was "a very tough situation" for people who sought protection under DACA. But, he said, "I think they're going to end up being very happy."
One option that may allow Trump to overturn DACA and still provide DREAMers with protection from deportation is the BRIDGE Act, said Roger Rocha the president of the League of United Latin American Citizens (LULAC), a Hispanic civil rights group. LULAC is one of the only Latino groups to work with Trump's advisers on immigration policy and, according to Rocha, most recently met with Trump's strategic advisory committee last week.
The bipartisan BRIDGE Act has been re-introduced by senators Lindsey Graham and Dick Durbin. It calls for the temporary protection of DREAMers from deportation. Those who would be protected must meet criteria that is similar to those established under DACA, including that they must have arrived in the U.S. before their 16th birthday and have lived continuously within the country since June 15, 2007.
Applicants also must not have been convicted of a felony, a significant misdemeanor -- such as domestic violence or burglary or any offense which involves a sentence of more than 90 days in prison -- or three or more misdemeanors.
 DREAMer - 'We've invested in this community'
"It's my firm belief most Americans want to fix a broken immigration system in a humane manner," Graham said in a press release. "In my view, the DACA Executive Order issued by President Obama was unconstitutional and President-elect Trump would be right to repeal it. However, I do not believe we should pull the rug out and push these young men and women -- who came out of the shadows and registered with the federal government -- back into the darkness."
The BRIDGE Act does not provide a path to citizenship and protected status would end three years after the law is passed. According to Shiu Ming Cheer, a senior staff attorney at the National Immigration Law Center, they would not be allowed to renew unless the law was amended.
Still, the BRIDGE Act would provide DREAMers more protection than DACA, said Cheer, since an executive order can be repealed at any time by the President without Congressional approval. A law, on the other hand, would need Congressional approval to be repealed or amended.
But Leon Fresco, who headed the U.S. Department of Justice's Office of Immigration under President Obama, said the BRIDGE Act is unlikely to get a Republican majority behind it in order to get passed.
A more likely scenario, he said, is that the Trump administration will simply repeal DACA and stress that going after DREAMers isn't a priority. Instead, he believes they will focus on those with criminal records. He estimated that more than 1,000 DREAMers have misdemeanors or pending removal orders and are at risk of getting swept up in raids.
 Undocumented entrepreneur faces uncertain fate
Fresco said he would push for Comprehensive Immigration Reform, which would strengthen immigration enforcement, streamline visa requirements and provide a path to citizenship for millions of undocumented immigrants. This legislation was most recently proposed and passed in the Senate in 2013, but was blocked by the House.
"Republicans always said they wouldn't go for it because they didn't trust that Obama would enforce the law. Now we have a president they can trust will enforce the law, so get in there and do it," said Fresco. "There shouldn't be a barrier anymore. However, if the barrier is really that they just don't want to give legal status to undocumented people, then that's that. The cards are on the table."
Between 2008 and 2012, five states — Georgia, Kentucky, Maine, Rhode Island and Wyoming — passed laws specifically allowing out-of-state insurers not licensed in their states to sell health insurance policies within their borders.
Nevertheless, no insurers have taken advantage of the laws. That's because entering an unfamiliar territory and creating a network of medical providers is exceedingly difficult and expensive, health policy analysts say.
 Trump and Obamacare: Where we go from here
But many health insurance analysts say that even if insurers were able to build provider networks in new states, it's not a good idea. The cross-state sale of health insurance would undermine the states' ability to regulate insurance, they warn, destabilizing their insurance markets and driving up premiums.
"It sounds great in a campaign to say we're going to get rid of the lines," said Gerald Kominski, director of the UCLA Center for Health Policy Research. "But what they're really saying is we're going to get rid of state regulations and consumer protections."
All states license the insurers selling policies within their borders and regulate the health plans sold there. Each state has its own rules on the benefits insurers operating in their state must offer, the extent to which insurers can charge different premiums to older customers, and the financial assets insurers must maintain in order to do business in the state. The five states that have moved to encourage cross-border sales have indicated a willingness to set aside some of their own regulations.
Some larger insurers, such as Aetna, do sell policies in multiple states, but any company that does so must be licensed in every state where it operates, and must comply with each state's laws. (This isn't the case with "self-insured" employer-based plans that operate in multiple states, or plans in which the employer assumes the financial risk of providing health care benefits to its employees instead of paying a fixed premium to an insurer.)
 Why GOP governors like Medicaid under Obamacare. Hint: $
And an insurer breaking into a new state likely would have to pay providers higher than prevailing rates to lure them into joining a new network.
"It takes a huge investment to get established in the health insurance market," said Deborah Chollet, a senior fellow at the policy research organization Mathematica Policy Research. "Outsiders would have a hard time getting a foothold."
With cross-state sales, insurers would be subject to the regulations in the state where they choose to base their operations. Critics say the proposal would encourage insurers to locate in lightly regulated states, but sell their policies nationwide.
If the Affordable Care Act is repealed and cross-border sales proceed, insurers would be free to sell inexpensive, less comprehensive policies to relatively young and healthy people. That would leave behind older, sicker people with greater medical needs, who would end up paying higher premiums for the coverage they need.
"This is just a veiled attempt to allow insurance companies to shop for the most industry-favorable states with the least consumer protections and requirements and allow them to sell those products everywhere in the country," said UCLA's Kominski.
Kristine Grow, a spokeswoman for America's Health Insurance Plans, which represents health insurers, said her group hasn't taken a position on Trump's proposal.
Supporters of the idea acknowledge that interstate competition would create some problems, but insist they can be overcome.
 Repealing Obamacare affects everyone
Thomas Miller, a resident fellow at the right-leaning American Enterprise Institute, said interstate sales might lead to higher premiums for many Americans, but that new federal or state regulations might be crafted to prevent price-gouging and protect people with pre-existing health conditions.
"People like to put out cartoon, extremist versions of the other side," Miller said. "Yes, there are nettlesome problems with this idea, but not ones that can't be solved with a sophisticated approach."
A long history...
Many state officials fear that interstate sales of health insurance would undermine their ability to regulate the insurance sold in their state. The insurance commissioner in, for example, California, would be unable to take action against, say, a Wyoming insurer whose products were sold to California residents. Similarly, Wyoming regulators might be disinclined to investigate complaints lodged by out-of-state consumers.
That helps explain the opposition of the National Association of Insurance Commissioners to the idea of cross-border sales. Interstate sales of health insurance, according to the NAIC, would "make insurance less available, make insurers less accountable, and prevent regulators from assisting consumers in their states."
Trump isn't the first Republican to propose the cross-state sale of health insurance during his presidential campaign. Sen. John McCain of Arizona did so in 2008 when he was the GOP presidential nominee, and former Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney did the same in 2012 when he was the nominee.
Trump and Republicans in Congress have vowed to "repeal and replace" the Affordable Care Act. But keeping the law in place would mitigate some of the feared negative consequences of interstate sales.
 Even as they repeal Obamacare, Republicans will still have to fund it
The ACA requires all health insurers to cover "essential health benefits," which include maternity care, treatment for mental illness and substance abuse, rehabilitative therapy, laboratory testing and prescription drug benefits. The ACA also prevents insurers from denying coverage to people with pre-existing health conditions or charging them higher premiums and prohibits higher premiums for women.
Without the ACA mandates, some states might allow the sale of cheaper policies with more limited benefits. If unfettered interstate sales were allowed, states desiring higher standards wouldn't be able to ensure that policies sold within their borders would include them.
The lack of regulation, some insurance analysts and regulators caution, would lead to a "race to the bottom" in terms of the quality of the policies, enabling companies to sell plans with limited benefits, yearly and lifetime limits on payouts for medical expenses, and high deductibles and cost-sharing provisions.
"It could send the market into a death spiral," said Eric A. Cioppa, superintendent of the Maine Bureau of Insurance.
This story was originally published by Stateline, an initiative of the Pew Charitable Trusts.
Trump has been vocal about his plans to penalize companies -- specifically automakers -- that make products in Mexico and then sell them in the U.S.
2. Loads of earnings: 3M (MMM), Alibaba (BABA, Tech30), Johnson & Johnson (JNJ), DuPont (DD), Lockheed Martin (LMT), Verizon (VZ, Tech30) and Philips (PHG) are releasing earnings before the open.
Alcoa (AA) and Texas Instruments (TXN) will release earnings after the close.
Before the Bell newsletter: Key market news. In your inbox. Subscribe now!
3. Ones to watch -- Samsung, Volkswagen, Yahoo, BT: Shares in Samsung (SSNLF) continued to push higher Tuesday after the firm reported its biggest quarterly profit in three years.
The firm's stock is trading near all-time highs even though the company has been linked to a huge political corruption scandal and has faced a public backlash for selling smartphones that overheated and occasionally caught fire.
Shares in Volkswagen (VLKAY) are holding steady after a U.S. district court in California gave final approval for the firm to pay $1.2 billion to its American car dealers for its emissions-cheating scandal.
Shares in Yahoo (YHOO, Tech30) are rising a tad in premarket trading after the company reported its latest quarterly results.
The company's sale to Verizon (VZ, Tech30) is now expected to close in the second quarter of this year, a delay from initial plans to close the deal this quarter.
Shares in the British telecom firm BT Group (BT) are plunging by about 18% in London after the company reported "inappropriate behavior" and "improper accounting practices" in its Italian business.
4. Court ruling on Brexit: The pound has taken a small dip after the U.K. Supreme Court ruled on Brexit.
The court ruled that the U.K. government must hold a vote in parliament before beginning the process of leaving the European Union.
The government had originally planned to trigger Brexit without a parliamentary vote.
5. Stock market overview: Investors seem to be in wait-and-see mode right now.
U.S. stock futures are holding steady as most European markets edge higher in early trading.
Asian markets ended the day with mixed results.
Download CNN MoneyStream for up-to-the-minute market data and news
6. Coming this week:
Tuesday - Senate hearing to review Mick Mulvaney's nomination to be director of the Office of Management and Budget Wednesday - Boeing (BA) and AT&T (T, Tech30) earnings Thursday - Microsoft (MSFT, Tech30), Alphabet (GOOGL, Tech30), Ford (F), and Starbucks (SBUX) earnings Friday - First reading of fourth-quarter U.S. GDP
For instance, observers believe Trump could swiftly issue an executive order lifting the Obama administration's moratorium on coal leasing of federal lands.
Despite Trump's best intentions and regulation-busting actions, experts don't believe they will be enough to save coal.
That's because coal has a fierce competitor in the form of natural gas. It's cheap, it's clean and there's a ton of it in the U.S. Plus, Trump himself supports expanded drilling of U.S. shale, the chief source of the boom in natural gas.
"The coal jobs aren't coming back," said James Van Nostrand, director of the Center for Energy and Sustainable Development at West Virginia University College of Law.
He called it "nonsense" to think lighter regulation will change that. "The coal industry is being pounded by market forces. It's not regulation," he said.
Even Robert Murray, the CEO of the largest U.S. private coal miner, thinks Trump is going to have a hard time keeping his coal promises.
Coal employment "can't be brought back to where it was before the election of Barack Obama," the Murray Energy CEO recently told CNNMoney, adding that he asked Trump to "temper" his coal promises.
But that doesn't mean Trump won't try. Here are several areas of regulation that Trump could take action on soon:

 Top coal exec to Trump: 'Temper' your job promises
Leasing on federal lands: Without help from Congress, Trump could easily lift the moratorium Obama placed on coal leasing on federal lands. While such a move could help a bit long-term, experts don't think it'll be a game-changer that helps struggling coal workers get back on their feet immediately.
Climate Action Plan: The White House website calls out Obama's Climate Action Plan as a "harmful and unnecessary" policy Trump wants to eliminate. The 2013 plan focused on three areas: cutting carbon pollution in America, preparing infrastructure for the impacts of climate change and making the U.S. a global leader on efforts to combat climate change.
Waters of the U.S.: The Trump energy plan also mentioned this water-pollution rule as another example of excess regulation. Also known as the "Clean Water Rule," this 2015 EPA rule gives the government the authority to protect ponds, wetlands and other small bodies of water from pollution.
Even though the rule didn't create new permitting requirements, some polluters like coal companies claim it's regulatory overreach. In fact, Murray Energy is still involved in a 2015 lawsuit against the government aimed at stopping the Clean Water Rule.
Clean Power Plan: Aimed at meeting America's commitments under the Paris agreement, the Clean Power Plan requires that by 2030 power plants cut their carbon emissions by 32%.
That means dumping coal for cleaner energy like natural gas. If CPP takes effect, U.S. coal production will shrink by another 26% through 2040, according to the U.S. Energy Information Administration.
But CPP is being challenged in court and experts believe Trump may try to dismantle or choose not to enforce it. Repealing CPP won't be easy because it's already a final rule. Gutting it would create an uproar from environmentalists.
Even if CPP goes away, the EIA isn't forecasting a coal boom -- it sees coal production flat through 2040.
"Scrapping the Clean Power Plan may slow the decline of coal, but it's not going to bring coal back," said Jason Bordoff, a Columbia University professor and former Obama energy adviser.
Coal's share of electricity generation stood at 48% in 2008. Last year, it fell to just 30.4%, causing coal production to take its biggest plunge on records going back to 1949, according to the EIA.

 Uranium stocks are booming, thanks to Trump
There's also been a dramatic wave of coal-fired power plants that have been put out of commission.
"Once those plants are gone, you're not going to bring them back," said Rob Barnett, senior energy policy analyst at Bloomberg Intelligence.
"It's going to be very difficult to reboot the coal industry under Trump," Barnett said.
That's why Von Nostrand of West Virginia University said Trump's efforts should be focused on helping struggling coal miners by protecting their pensions and health benefits.
"Will coal come back to the level of 20 or even 10 years ago? I have my doubts," said Sheila Hollis, a partner specializing in energy matters at law firm Duane Morris.
"But I hope and pray there is some real serious assistance for coal miners," she said.
"As an industry we're excited about working together with the president and his administration on tax policies, on regulation and on trade to really create a renaissance in American manufacturing," he said.
He specifically praised Trump's decision to pull out of the TPP trade deal, which Fields said did not do enough to address currency manipulation, a major concern for U.S. automakers.
But the auto industry is concerned about Trump's threat to impose a 35% tax on imports from Mexico to the United States. All major automakers have plants and suppliers on both sides of the border.
Automakers have said that what they really want is to know what rules will apply in the future, especially for imports from Mexico.
"I need clarity, and we need rules," said Fiat Chrysler CEO Sergio Marchionne at the Detroit auto show this month. Asked by reporters Tuesday if Trump had discussed specifics of regulations and trade policy, Marchionne responded "Not yet."
Before the meeting started, Trump said in a tweet that he was focused on boosting manufacturing. "I want new plants to be built here for cars sold here!"
Will be meeting at 9:00 with top automobile executives concerning jobs in America. I want new plants to be built here for cars sold here!
But executives from the automakers who have been most active building new plants in recent decades weren't at the White House today. Toyota (TM), Honda (HMC), Nissan (NSANF) and Hyundai, which have U.S. plants as well as plants in Mexico, weren't invited to this meeting, according to spokespeople from those companies.
Between them, foreign automakers employ tens of thousands of workers at their U.S. facilities.
 Trump scores PR win against automakers
A trade group that includes the big Asian car companies, but not BMW or Volkswagen, says its members employ nearly 100,000 people in the U.S. with a total annual payroll of $7.6 billion, and produce about 40% of the cars assembled here.
BMW and VW have about 12,000 workers between their plants in Spartanburg, South Carolina, and Chattanooga, Tennessee. The BMW Spartanburg plant is the company's largest in the world, and also the largest exporter of cars in the U.S. It sends about 70% of the 400,000 cars it builds annually to other countries.
The White House didn't respond to questions as to why the foreign automakers weren't invited to Tuesday's meeting or if they'll be included in future auto industry summits.
GM (GM), Ford (F) and Fiat Chrysler (FCAU), the traditional Big Three Detroit automakers, have brought a lot of jobs back since the industry bottomed out in 2009. Together, they now have more than 230,000 employees in the U.S.
 GM to invest $1 billion in U.S. plants
Each Detroit automaker says it has added at least 25,000 U.S. jobs since 2009, increasing their employment in the country by about 50% or more. Those U.S. job gains exceed each company's total employment at their Mexican plants.
And the three Detroit automakers have announced additional U.S. hiring and investment plans since Trump's election, but they have insisted the decisions were made independently of him. Many of the plans were promised in 2015 labor deals with the United Auto Workers union.
On Tuesday, Trump also pledged to make U.S. environmental regulations "extremely hospitable" to business.
"It's absolutely crazy," Trump told the group at the White House. "I am to a large extent an environmentalist. I believe in it. But it's out of control. We're going to make a very short process. Generally speaking we're going to give you your permits. We're going to be very friendly."
 Ford cancels Mexico plant, will create 700 jobs in Michigan
Despite the hiring and investment plans announced in the U.S., most of the automakers' Mexican operations are due to stay in place.
Ford announced last month that it would cancel plans for a $1.6 billion plant in Mexico to build small cars. But the car that was to be built there, the Ford Focus, will now be made at a different Mexican plant. Weak sales of small cars, more than Trump's threat of tariffs, were why plans for another Mexico plant were canceled.
Only GM has announced it intends to move jobs from Mexico to a plant in the U.S.
"It would be a concern if things became very contentious right off the bat," says Ethan Harris, global economist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Here's the other issue: China doesn't deserve the currency manipulator label anymore. Experts across the political spectrum agree on this. China is actually trying hard to make the yuan more expensive these days. It has spent over $800 billion in the past two years to try to prop up the yuan.
"There does not seem to be any basis at the moment for accusing China of currency manipulation," says former U.S. Ambassador to China J. Stapleton Roy.
Instead of putting pressure China on Day One, Trump actually gave China a gift of sorts when he formally withdrew the U.S. from the Asian trade deal known as TPP. It opens the door for China to take the lead on a big trade deal with other Asian nations.
 Trump's decision to kill TPP leaves door open for China
What the Trump team is saying now
So has the Trump team changed its mind? It's possible, but a more likely scenario is that the Trump team is wrapping China's currency into a lengthy list of trade and security issues it wants to address with China.
"I would talk to them first," Trump told the Wall Street Journal in an interview before he took office. "Everything is under negotiation, including One China," he said, referring to whether the U.S. will continue to recognize Taiwan as part of China.
Another reason Trump might be delaying is that Steve Mnuchin, his Treasury Secretary pick, hasn't been confirmed yet. When Trump made his pledges to go after China, it was always with the Treasury Secretary taking the lead.
"On Day One of a Trump administration, the U.S. Treasury Department will designate China a currency manipulator," Trump wrote in a Wall Street Journal op-ed in late 2015. He reiterated that vow in his Contract with the American Voter outlining his priorities for the first 100 days: "I will direct the Secretary of the Treasury to label China a currency manipulator."
It's difficult to keep that promise without a Treasury Secretary in place. In his confirmation hearings, Mnuchin was also careful to say that he would call China a currency manipulator "if warranted."
The U.S. hasn't labeled China a currency manipulator since 1994. The label is a verbal slap to hurt China's pride. It wouldn't change much. It mostly just triggers more negotiations.
 Trump vows 25 million jobs, most of any president

The currency manipulator test
There are three key criteria China (or any other potential manipulator) must meet before the president and his staff take the formal step of publicly labeling the country a bad currency player, according to Fred Bergsten, founding director of the Peterson Institute for International Economics:
1. The country has significant trade surplus with the U.S.
2. The country has a large cash surplus.
3. The country has been doing persistent intervention in its currency market.
Many people agree that China met those qualifications during much of the 1990s and early 2000s. Prior administrations opted to discuss it quietly behind closed doors with China.
"China was a massive manipulator from the early part of the last decade until 2013 or 2014," says Bergsten, who wished President Obama and President George W. Bush had taken a tougher stance.
But today China is in a very different place. Its economy has slowed somewhat, and the leadership is worried about how much money is leaving China. The government has intervened actively to try to stop the outflows and keep the currency from dropping.
 President Trump can levy tariffs without Congress
What will Trump do?
"I'm fairly confident there will be some kind of dramatic gesture from the Trump administration to initiate negotiations with China," predicts Harris of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
But Harris thinks it's wise for the Trump team to hit the pause button on going after China on currency manipulation. There are far bigger economic issues with China at the moment like theft U.S. intellectual property and how China favors domestic companies over foreign players.
The new administration reiterated Monday that trade with China is "not a two-way street." It wants to do something about trade with China, but what exactly that is remains to be seen.
As a founding member of the House Freedom Caucus, he was one of a small band of Republicans who tried to oust now former House Speaker John Boehner in part for not being fiscally conservative enough. The group repeatedly drew lines in the sand on federal budgets, pulling the GOP to the right on compromises with the Senate and former President Obama.
Mulvaney also wants a balanced budget amendment to the Constitution. That could put him at odds with the new president's plans.
"Trump promised an agenda of spending increases and tax cuts that could not possibly result in a balanced budget and now he has appointed an OMB Director who favors a balanced budget," said Robert Bixby, executive director of the Concord Coalition, a fiscal watchdog group.
But Mulvaney's job will be to reflect what his boss wants. That's not to say, though, that he won't try to influence Trump. It just may be tough.
 Tax breaks: One of the biggest U.S. budget busters
"He has his work cut out for him to figure out how to reconcile Donald Trump's policy promises with a plan to get the debt under control," said Maya MacGuineas, president of the Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget.
Mulvaney's first task will be to create the president's budget. That blueprint will lay out for Congress the president's fiscal agenda and policy priorities.
Here are just a few issues that Trump and Mulvaney may disagree on:
Infrastructure spending: Among Trump's priorities will be infrastructure spending. "We will build new roads and highways, and bridges, and airports, and tunnels, and railways all across our wonderful nation," the new president said in his inaugural address.
On the campaign trail, Trump promised up to $1 trillion in new infrastructure investments, but it's not clear if he wants that to come from federal coffers or from creating public-private partnerships.
 The national debt is the Republicans' problem now
"The deficit clearly is not a big concern for Trump," Greg Valliere, chief global strategist at Horizon Investments, noted after the inauguration.
Domestic and defense spending: The president -- like a lot of Republicans -- also wants to beef up defense spending. In the past, Mulvaney has called for any such increases to be offset with spending cuts elsewhere.
The problem with "elsewhere" is that most federal spending goes to entitlement programs like Medicare. Trump has said he doesn't want to touch those. So that leaves spending on nondefense domestic programs, which is already close to 50-year lows as a percent of GDP.
Nevertheless, Valliere predicts that "there will be savage cuts to domestic programs, and most of the Trump team is on board."
Medicare and Social Security: Trump has promised repeatedly that he wouldn't touch entitlement programs. Bernie Sanders, the top Democrat on the Senate Budget Committee, will almost certainly make that a focus in Mulvaney's confirmation hearing, since Mulvaney has discussed reforming them.
Tax cuts: Trump has called for big tax cuts and they're estimated to increase the country's debt by trillions. Mulvaney won't be driving that policy. Steven Mnuchin, Trump's pick for Treasury secretary, has said he will. But Mulvaney will have to incorporate them into the president's budget. And the more they inflate deficit estimates, the more he may push for spending cuts.
Debt ceiling: Raising the debt ceiling, something lawmakers must do in the spring or early summer, is another area where Mulvaney may clash with Trump or his cabinet. He was among those conservatives in 2011 who dismissed the risk of default if the country didn't raise the debt ceiling quickly. Mnuchin made clear last week, however, that he wants no drama when it comes to Congress authorizing the Treasury to borrow as needed to pay the country's bills.
"The White House response is that he's not going to release his tax returns," she told ABC's "This Week." "We litigated this all through the election. People didn't care."
In fact, a CNN poll in October found that 73% of registered voters surveyed thought Trump should release his tax returns for public review, including about half of Republicans.
In a tweet Monday, Conway said that Trump would not release the documents as long as he's under audit by the IRS. That was the same explanation he gave during the campaign, even though IRS audits do not restrict anyone from publishing tax returns.
"On taxes, answers (& repeated questions) are same from campaign: POTUS is under audit and will not release until that is completed," she said.
The audits won't end anytime soon. Presidents have been automatically audited for some time, said Joe Thorndike, a historian with Tax Analysts and director of the Tax History Project.
The IRS manual makes it clear: Individual income tax returns for the president and vice president "are subject to mandatory examinations."
There's no law that requires Trump to disclose the returns, since the papers are considered private information. But there's also no law that says he can't release them.
Norman Eisen, one of the lawyers bringing an ethics lawsuit against Trump, raised the possibility on CNN on Monday that a judge might order Trump's tax returns released as part of the case.
Why does release matter?
Even a portion of Trump's tax returns could show the American people some limited information about the billionaire's finances.
The top two pages of his 1040 and his Schedule A, for example, would reveal how much taxable income he made, how much he paid in taxes, his charitable contributions and whether he paid tax to any foreign governments.
The custom of releasing tax returns began with Richard Nixon, Thorndike said.
In 1973, while under audit and amid a controversy over his personal taxes, Nixon released returns dating back to when he took office in 1969. The scandal led to one of Nixon's most famous quotes.
"People have got to know whether or not their president is a crook," Nixon told reporters in November 1973. "Well, I am not a crook."
 Nixon released his tax returns under audit. Why can't Trump?
Since Nixon, every president has released tax returns, except for Gerald Ford, who instead made public a decade's worth of summary data about his federal taxes.
"One of the reasons that Nixon released his returns was that people were saying, 'Hey, how can we trust the IRS to investigate this guy honestly and fairly when he's their boss?'" Thorndike said.
"It underscores the question right now: Can this IRS today do this job? And we have to assume that it can, because there is no backstop. Nixon released his returns in response to these sorts of questions."
Trump's decision not to release returns could end the voluntary practice going forward, Thorndike said.
The decision by presidential candidates is already not cut-and-dried. Some major party candidates have released decades' worth of returns, while others have publicized only the top two pages of their form 1040.
"We may have everyone say, 'Eh, Donald Trump has made tax returns irrelevant,'" Thorndike said. "The tradition is up for grabs right now. It's not clear that it will survive this."
--CNNMoney's Jeanne Sahadi contributed to this report.
But here are four reasons why an agreement is far from certain, and will take years to achieve.
1. America first, or Global Britain?
Both leaders say they want more trade -- but on their own terms. Both have distanced themselves from much bigger and established trading relationships, while promising to put national interests first.
Trump on Monday signed an executive order abandoning the Trans-Pacific Partnership, a trade agreement with 11 countries, including Japan. And he said Sunday he would start renegotiating NAFTA -- the agreement that covers trade with Mexico and Canada. He's also threatened China with tariffs.
May is about to start negotiating the U.K.'s exit from the European Union, Britain's biggest trading partner. She confirmed last week that Brexit would mean leaving the EU free trade zone as she seeks to build a "Global Britain."
"Concluding a substantial trade deal that could significantly improve U.K. market access to a much bigger and increasingly protectionist U.S. might not be that easy for the U.K.," warned Berenberg's chief economist Holger Schmieding.
2. A lopsided relationship
The two countries did about $235 billion in trade in 2015, according to the latest annual data from the U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis. But the relationship is far more important to Britain than to America.
Only about 5% of U.S. annual trade of $5 trillion is with the U.K., making it the 6th largest U.S. trading partner behind China, Canada, Mexico, Japan and Germany.
 These are America's top trading partners
By contrast, the U.S. is the second biggest market for British goods and services, after the EU. Roughly 20% of all British exports go to the U.S.
This dynamic could set the countries up for a lopsided negotiation, particularly given Trump's exhortation to "buy American and hire American."
"A trade agreement with the U.K. is unlikely to be a priority for the new U.S. administration, no matter what is said at the Trump-May press conference," said Gregor Irwin, chief economist at the strategic advisory firm, Global Counsel. "Domestic priorities and campaign promises will always come first."
3. Waiting for Brexit
Britain cannot legally begin negotiating any of its own trade deals while it is still a member of the EU. That means the start of formal talks on an American-British deal would be at least two years away.
"The U.K. may choose to ignore that, but it means further souring the relationship with Brussels just as the Brexit negotiations are starting," said Irwin.
And the devil may be in the Brexit terms: Many American companies and banks have invested in Britain because of the access its EU membership gives to European markets. Once Brexit is complete, a bilateral deal could likely be less attractive to Trump.
Keep in mind, too, that comprehensive trade deals can often take a decade to hammer out, as was the case between Canada and the EU.
4. Missing $50 billion
There may be a much more basic problem to overcome first: both sides have different data on the value of bilateral trade.
Official U.S. data shows America sells more goods and services to the U.K. than it brings in, generating a trade surplus. U.K. data shows the opposite is the case.
The discrepancy is worth about $50 billion.
The difference in the official figures could come down to different estimates and calculations about what is included in trade. But it might explain why Trump and May seem eager to do a deal: both think they're onto a winner.
 Olive Garden sold 21,000 of those Unlimited Pasta Passes
With the new deal, which started Monday, customers can consume infinite amounts of pasta, selecting from five entrees: spaghetti with meat sauce, fettuccine alfredo, lasagna classic, chicken alfredo and chicken parmigiana.
Depending on the dish they choose, Olive Garden diners can pay from $11.99 to $17.99 to eat until they can't eat any more.
The deal, which lasts until March 6, also provides unlimited soup and bread sticks.
The all-you-can-eat strategy seems to have worked for the Darden (DRI)-owned restaurant chain, which reported improved sales late last year after being chastised by investors. Among investors' complaints were the quality of the food, including the unlimited bread sticks.
Correction: An earlier version of this story incorrectly stated that drinks are included in the current all-you-can eat deal.
Trump, who made protectionist trade policies a cornerstone of his campaign, has described TPP as a "disaster done and pushed by special interests who want to rape our country." He has also pledged to renegotiate NAFTA.
Edward Alden, a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations, said he was "baffled" as to why Trump would try to renegotiate NAFTA, which governs trade with Mexico and Canada, while abandoning TPP wholesale.
"Trump has single-handedly given away an enormous source of leverage over China," Alden said. "The first rule of negotiating is don't give away something for nothing, and he's done that right off the bat."
China is likely to be emboldened by Trump's backpedaling. Sen. John McCain, a former Republican presidential nominee, said that it was a "troubling signal" of American disengagement at a time when "we can least afford it."
"It will create an opening for China to rewrite the economic rules of the road at the expense of American workers," McCain added.
Beijing is already pushing its own trade deal known as the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP). It includes many countries, such as Japan and Australia, that would have been in TPP.
 Chinese President Xi Jinping: No one can win a trade war

If RCEP succeeds, China would be in a stronger position to lead a bigger free trade area in the future. Already in Asia, some countries, like the Philippines, are aligning themselves with China.
Chinese officials are also welcoming Latin American nations to RCEP.
Critics worry that Beijing will increasingly set the rules and global standards that govern trade.
TPP included provisions that would have required countries like Vietnam and Brunei to observe international standards relating to forced labor and collective bargaining -- principles that have long been valued by the U.S.
"We can't let countries like China write the rules of the global economy," former President Obama said last year. "We should write those rules."
It's not clear exactly what rules Beijing might push. Despite Xi's forceful defense of globalization, China often protects its own huge state-owned enterprises at the expense of foreign firms. It also restricts access to its domestic markets.
 China is ready to pounce if Trump axes Pacific trade deal
Xi has defended that strategy, saying that China has succeeded because it followed a path that was uniquely suited to its needs. It will not seek to impose its standards on other nations, he said.
China appears pleased at the opportunity it's been given.
The country's foreign ministry said Tuesday that good progress was being made on RCEP and negotiations could soon conclude.
"We are willing to work with all countries to pull together in times of difficulties, so that we can fulfill our responsibility and make our effort in resolving problems facing the world today," ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying said.
-- Jethro Mullen and Patrick Gillespie contributed reporting.
The company blamed tough comparisons to the fourth quarter of 2015, when McDonald's (MCD) was on fire thanks to its All-Day Breakfast menu launch.
McDonald's CEO Steve Easterbrook didn't express much optimism about a turnaround in the first quarter either.
McDonald's is also facing tougher competition from rivals like KFC, Taco Bell and Pizza Hut owner Yum! Brands (YUM), Burger King parent Restaurant Brands (QSR) and fast casual chains like Panera (PNRA) and Shake Shack (SHAK).
Easterbrook has gotten a lot of credit from Wall Street for helping to turn McDonald's around since he took over as CEO nearly two years ago.
 McDonald's just tweaked the Big Mac
Under his watch, McDonald's has made big changes to the menu, introducing healthier items like kale and more customized sandwiches. Most recently, McDonald's unveiled both a smaller and bigger version of its Big Mac.
So McDonald's needs to find new ways to attract even more customers.
Still, investors are hopeful that restaurants and other retailers will do well this year thanks to Donald Trump's presidential victory.
McDonald's did not mention whether or not consumers may be more confident following Trump's win in its earnings release though.
Some retailers have cited an uptick in sentiment because of President Trump, who has pledged to cut taxes and grow the economy at a faster clip than it has over the past few years.
But minimum wage hikes across the U.S. over the past year have also put pressure on costs at McDonald's and other restaurant chains. So that could wind up canceling out any boost in sales.
Slapping tariffs -- or taxes -- targeted at specific companies would be very hard to do under current law.
But Trump has significant authority to unilaterally hit any country with a tariff. He doesn't need a green light from Congress, according to the Peterson Institute of International Economics.
"A president who wants to restrict trade enjoys almost carte blanche authority," says Gary Clyde Hufbauer, a trade expert at Peterson.
Here are three of the ways Trump can go after other countries on his own.
1. Trump's biggest weapon: Unlimited tariffs 'during time of war'
Trump could invoke the "Trading with the Enemy Act of 1917" to hit a nation with tariffs as high as he wants. Under the law, the president can restrict all types of trade "during time of war." That definition is very loose though.
America doesn't have to be at war with a particular nation -- it just has to be "at war" somewhere in the world in order to apply tariffs against other countries.
Experts believe U.S. special forces in Syria and Libya would suffice to meet that requirement for Trump to hit countries such as China and Mexico with tariffs.
In 1971, President Richard Nixon used this act to impose a 10% import tariff (not directed at any particular nation) citing the Korean War, which had ended nearly two decades prior. Technically, America was still in a state of emergency which had not lifted.
All to say: the excuse of war has a very loose interpretation that the President can use.
2. Trump's next best weapon: unlimited tariffs during 'national emergency'
If that law sounds too outdated for Trump to use, there's another -- the International Emergency Economic Powers Act of 1977.
It gives the president authority to use tariffs on another country during a "national emergency." Again, defining an emergency is vague. Losing manufacturing jobs to Mexico and China would suffice as one. Also, courts have never rejected a president's reasoning.
The big difference between this Act and the one from 1917 is that Trump can't seize assets using this one. But that's not his aim anyway.
This law has been invoked against Nicaragua, Panama, Sierra Leone and Somalia. It was used "in circumstances that few observers would characterize as an unusual or extraordinary threat," says Hufbauer.
3. Trump's limited options: hit specific industries or low tariffs on everyone
Trump can also rely on the Trade Act of 1974, Section 122. It gives him authority to impose across-the-board tariffs.
Trump just needs to find "an adverse impact on national security from imports." Lost jobs could qualify.
The caveat: There is a cap on the tariffs of 15% and it's only good for 150 days. Then Congress needs to approve it. So, it's a blunt rule that could have a severe short term impact but it expires after five months, unless it is extended by Congress.
Trump can also use the Trade Expansion Act of 1962. Ronald Reagan used this one. It allows Trump to slap targeted tariffs on certain industries, like steel. It's not as broad, but Trump can raise tariffs as high as he wants on specific things.
If tariffs are imposed, what comes next:
Trump would undoubtedly face resistance within his administration, from members of Congress, U.S. companies and countries. But time is on his side. Court appeals would take months, even years, to work their way through.
In short order, if he wants, Trump can impose tariffs as high as 35% on Mexico and 45% on China as he has threatened in the past. But he would need to withdraw from NAFTA before he could slap stiff tariffs on Mexico.
However, if Trump hits these countries with tariffs, trade experts say Mexico and China will almost certainly retaliate with tariffs against U.S. products.
That defines a trade war, which can hurt both countries and its citizens in unforeseen ways.
-- CNN's Jeremy Diamond contributed to this report
The Trump team said Icahn would help "American entrepreneurs shed job-killing regulations that stifle economic growth."
Some were quick to take issue with Icahn's claims on Twitter though.
A user named @Momma2 simply wrote "Have you read the reviews?" and tweeted a link to a column by leading conservative writer George Will, who dubbed Trump's speech "the most dreadful inaugural address in history."
@Carl_C_Icahn @realDonaldTrump Have you read the reviews? https://t.co/IfOVQ2hB0q
And @urbanerogue wrote that, "yes Carl, both you and Donald have struggled bigly under the last few years of socialism, how about that DOW?"
@Carl_C_Icahn @realDonaldTrump yes Carl, both you and Donald have struggled bigly under the last few years of socialism, how about that DOW?
The Dow soared about 140% during Obama's eight years in office. After bottoming out in March 2009, the market roared back from the depths of the 2008 financial crisis and Great Recession and is now trading near record high levels.
 Refinery controlled by Carl Icahn soared after Trump named him an adviser
Many experts say that Obama's policies deserve some, albeit not all, of the credit. Low interest rates from the Federal Reserve and innovation from tech giants Apple (AAPL, Tech30), Google (GOOGL, Tech30), Facebook (FB, Tech30) and others in Silicon Valley also helped fuel the market's surge.
Still, some on Twitter defended Icahn and Trump. @jdcaetano wrote that "8 years of Democratic socialism should never have been inflicted on us! Let's move onward and upward."
@Carl_C_Icahn @realDonaldTrump Amen,8 years of Democratic socialism should never have been inflicted on us !Let's move onward and upward
And @Italians4Trump tweeted, "Thank you! You better believe it! Now we will go towards Capitalism, the system that made our country great! #Capitalism #EndofSocialism."
@Carl_C_Icahn @realDonaldTrump Thank you! You better believe it! Now we will go towards Capitalism, the system that made our country great!#Capitalism#EndofSocialism
Investors initially greeted Trump's win as a positive sign too. Shares of Icahn's own publicly traded firm Icahn Enterprises (IEP) have surged since Trump won the election, along with the broader market.
But the market has pulled back in recent weeks due to concerns that Trump's isolationist policies could actually be detrimental to Corporate America. Icahn Enterprises is down more than 2% as well.
And Icahn even conceded in an interview with CNN's Poppy Harlow last month that he thought the market rally following Trump's win was "a little overdone."
The brewer named eight brands at risk for chipped glass: the flagship brand Pale Ale, Beer Camp Golden IPA, Sidecar Orange Pale Ale, Torpedo Extra IPA, Tropical Torpedo, Nooner, Hop Hunter and Otra Vez.
 Craft beer made this home brewer a billionaire
Sierra Nevada said anyone who has purchased it is eligible for a refund. The company is removing the beer from stores.
Mike Bennett, the chief supply chain officer, said in a statement that he believes only one in about 10,000 bottles is affected, and the company has not received reports of injuries.
Sierra Nevada is based in California, where it has a brewery in Chico. The label on the Chico-brewed beer, which is not part of the recall, is marked with a C, while the Mills River beer is marked with an M.
Wells Fargo hired an unnamed third party to look into cases where employees were terminated within 12 months of calling the ethics line. The bank also investigated claims of retaliation from former employees who spoke to the media or to the bank itself following the fake account settlement last September.
"A few cases out of the hundreds reviewed raised questions, and we are following up on each of them," Sloan said in a speech broadcast to the bank's more than 260,000 employees last Thursday.
Asked to clarify if that means there were signs of retaliation, a Wells Fargo spokeswoman told CNNMoney: "Yes, that is how I would read it."
She added, "Where we have cause for concern, we're going to keep looking further."
Sloan, who took over in October after longtime CEO John Stumpf abruptly retired last year, said these claims that are receiving further scrutiny are a "very small number."
Still, he said, "Anything more than zero is too large."
Wells Fargo also said it is expanding the review to include reports to the ethics hotline in which employees received "corrective action short of termination" within 12 months of making the call.
 I called the Wells Fargo ethics line and was fired
Many former employees shared stories with CNNMoney about how their lives were turned upside down when they lost jobs following calls to the ethics line.
For instance, Bill Bado, a former Wells Fargo banker in Pennsylvania, recounted his call to the ethics hotline about being instructed to open phony bank and credit accounts. Bado even provided a September 2013 email to human resources flagging these concerns. Eight days after sending the email, Bado was terminated -- for tardiness.
The firing also put a stain on Bado's securities license, and he found he couldn't get hired in the industry. Bado's financial troubles worsened after that. His house was on the verge of being foreclosed on and he worked part-time at the grocery store chain Shop-Rite.
"They ruined my life," Bado told CNNMoney.

 Wells Fargo dumps toxic 'cross-selling' metric
It's not clear what, if anything, Wells Fargo will do to help employees it confirms were victims of retaliation.
"We will have to work through that with that individual," the Wells Fargo spokeswoman said.
Equally unclear is any legal fallout if Wells Fargo admits to instances of retaliation. Federal law, including elements of both Sarbanes-Oxley and Dodd-Frank, makes it illegal to suppress whistleblowing.
Last year, Senator Elizabeth Warren asked the SEC to look into whether the bank violated whistleblower protection laws, citing CNNMoney's reporting. Wells Fargo later said it is in fact under SEC investigation, although it's not clear precisely what the agency is probing.
Asked about the potential legal impact, the Wells Fargo spokeswoman said: "We're in constant contact with our regulators."
She said the bank has been "very open and very transparent" about this issue and reiterated, "There is no place for retaliation at Wells Fargo."
 Wells Fargo silent about probe for 6 months
Still, Sloan has his job cut out for him to reassure an anxious workforce.
After the scandal, more than a dozen current Wells Fargo employees reached out to CNNMoney to describe the grim mood inside the bank following the scandal and the anger felt by rank and file after the company's executives initially blamed lower-level workers for the issues.
To combat these concerns, Wells Fargo announced this week the creation of a new Office of Ethics, Oversight and Integrity for people who are charged with researching and escalating these matters. This division will be led on an interim basis by Theresa LaPlaca, a senior executive in wealth and investment management.
Despite these concerns, Sloan insisted that the bank's ethics hotline is "working" and said he wants Wells Fargo to be "best in class" in this area.
"Ensuring that we have a retaliation-free workplace is a huge priority for me," Sloan said.
U.S. stock futures are declining.
Investors are putting their money into safe haven sovereign bonds, causing yields to fall across the board.
Markets had been rallying since Trump's election in November. All the main U.S. indexes hit all-time highs earlier this year.
2. Samsung blames the batteries: Samsung is blaming poorly designed and manufactured batteries for the overheating problems that caused some of its Galaxy Note 7 phones to catch fire.
This is Samsung's second attempt at explaining what went wrong with the flagship phone. The first time around, Samsung (SSNLF) blamed the problem on one of its battery suppliers -- but the fires didn't stop.
The fiasco over the phone tarnished Samsung's brand, caused it to kill off the product and resulted in billions of dollars of lost profits.
Shares in Samsung jumped 2.3% on Monday.
Before the Bell newsletter: Key market news. In your inbox. Subscribe now!
3. In pursuit of profits: McDonald's (MCD) and Halliburton (HAL) are the two key firms reporting quarterly results on Monday before the opening bell.
Yahoo (YHOO, Tech30) will report earnings after the close.
Download CNN MoneyStream for up-to-the-minute market data and news
4. Coming this week:
Monday - Tax filing season begins, McDonald's (MCD) earnings Tuesday - Samsung (SSNLF) earnings; Senate hearing to review Mick Mulvaney's nomination to be director of the Office of Management and Budget Wednesday - Boeing (BA) and AT&T (T, Tech30) earnings Thursday - Microsoft (MSFT, Tech30), Alphabet (GOOGL, Tech30), Ford (F), and Starbucks (SBUX) earnings Friday - First reading of fourth-quarter U.S. GDP
Buyers were eager to grab a piece of the GT40's race legacy. The original Ford (F) model did the impossible, defeating Ferrari in four consecutive runnings of the grueling 24 Hours of Le Mans starting in 1966.
It was the first major win for an American manufacturer on the European circuit.
Cars from that era remain very popular. But they're very hard to find and extremely expensive.
Ford, recognizing the demand for the classic car, now produces a limited-edition version of a modern GT40. But it costs roughly $400,000.
That's where CAV comes in.
Despite being hand assembled, the replicas are accurate reproductions of the original GT40.

Reddy said the company's stainless-steel monocoque chassis are the "only kind in the world," and feature improved ergonomics on the track and road.
Local manufacturers custom-make 80% of the components used in the replica.
CAV's GT40 is offered with a modern Ford V8 engine, but some prefer to buy customized engines in their home market.
With only eight people in its workshop, the automaker exports 15 cars a year. But it recently doubled its production capacity to meet keep up with growing demand.

CAV exports to the United States, Canada, Europe, Britain, Australia and the United Arab Emirates.
CAV is one of five companies in the world that are manufacturing replicas of the GT40.
The price tag for a bespoke CAV model ranges from $100,000 to $130,000.
Reddy said that building cars in South Africa gives him a competitive edge.
The country has a long history of auto manufacturing. Automakers including BMW (BMWYY), Volkswagen (VLKAY), Mercedes Benz (DDAIY), Ford, Toyota (TM) and General Motors (GM) have plants in the country.
According to the Department of Trade and Industry, the automotive sector accounts for 7.2% of South Africa's economy, and almost 35% of the country's manufacturing.
For Reddy, the advantage is all about the availability of "niche" skills that help bring the American beauty roaring back to life.
Mitsubishi said the latest setback "is due to revisions of certain systems and electrical configurations on the aircraft" to meet certification requirements for regulatory approvals.
 Boeing chases airlines for stretch 737
The MRJ's difficulties underscore the challenges of competing in the global plane-making industry, where the barriers to entry often mean years of delays and massive cost overruns. It's Japan's first new commercial aircraft in more than 50 years, the last one was powered by turboprop and introduced in 1965.
Mitsubishi says the jet, which seats as many as 92 passengers, uses 20% less fuel than other aircraft in its class because of its efficient engines made by U.S. firm Pratt & Whitney and aerodynamic design.
It puts Mitsubishi in direct competition with Brazilian plane maker Embraer (ERJ) and Canada's Bombardier (BDRAF), which dominate the market for passenger jets with fewer than 100 seats.
Mitsubishi has more than 230 orders for the aircraft, including from U.S. regional carriers Sky West Airlines, Trans States Holdings and the newly revived Eastern Air Lines.
 Japan's first passenger jet has a bad weekend
Delays aren't uncommon in bringing new planes to market.
As Embraer has grown and Mitsubishi has pushed into the market for regional jets, Bombardier launched its own bigger airliner called the CSeries and faced years of delays and billions of added costs to finish the aircraft. It's now been flying with airlines in Europe since last year, but it highlights how even established manufacturers have struggled with new aircraft.
Industry giants Boeing (BA) and Airbus (EADSF) have both endured embarrassing setbacks on high-profile jets like the long-range 787 Dreamliner and the superjumbo A380.
The MRJ made its first flight in November 2015. It now has a total of four test aircraft flying, three of which are currently based in Moses Lake, Washington, 140 miles east of Seattle.
Mitsubishi Aircraft Corp. is a unit of Japanese conglomerate Mitsubishi Heavy Industries (MHVYF), which has long been a supplier to Boeing.
What the Trump administration can do is tinker with the guidance that enables agencies, states, insurers and others to actually implement Obamacare. Also, the Health secretary can be more liberal with his use of waivers in order to loosen some provisions or allow states to tailor their implementation of certain aspects of the law, particularly Medicaid expansion.
 Trump issues executive order to start rolling back Obamacare
"It's a mix of symbolic arm waving (lacking more specific and targeted details) and directional guidance to empower Trump administration officials to lean against more regulation on the margin," said Tom Miller, resident fellow at the American Enterprise Institute, which has long opposed Obamacare. "What remains unclear is how far they can go before they bump up against clearer statutory requirements and existing final regulations."
Here are some examples of what the executive order could do:
Loosening guidance: The Health secretary -- Trump's pick Tom Price has yet to be confirmed -- could revise the guidance they've issued to carry out the Affordable Care Act's regulations.
Even more so than many other laws, Obamacare has largely been implemented through regulation and the Obama administration continued to make adjustments for years, delaying some provisions such as the mandate that employers provide affordable policies, tightening the rules on who can still sign up for coverage after open enrollment ends and revising the risk formula that governs how insurers are compensated if they have a large share of sicker and costly enrollees.
 Why it's so hard to replace Obamacare
Trump appears to be taking aim at the individual mandate, which requires that nearly all Americans get insurance or face a penalty.
"What President Trump is doing is, he wants to get rid of that Obamacare penalty almost immediately, because that is something that is really strangling a lot of Americans to have to pay a penalty for not buying," Kellyanne Conway, Trump's senior adviser, said on ABC News "This Week" on Sunday.
His administration might loosen the criteria for qualifying for a hardship exemption, which would allow more people to remain uninsured without paying a penalty.
However, experts said he cannot simply waive the mandate or penalty or broaden the exemption so much that it essentially nullifies it without facing lawsuits. Also, weakening the mandate too much could prompt healthy people to stop buying coverage, which could prompt insurers to pull out.
Under the order, officials could also opt not to impose penalties for certain infractions of Obamacare provisions. For example, some companies, particularly small businesses, used to provide workers with money to buy their own individual health insurance. Under Obamacare, those employers can be slapped with a penalty of $100 per day, per person. Trump could suggest to his new IRS commissioner that enforcing the rule is counterproductive and a waste of resources, especially when Congress plans to replace Obamacare.
Granting more waivers: Trump's executive order also directed agencies to provide greater flexibility to states to run their own health care programs.
The Obama administration already granted states waivers allowing them to tailor the way they administer Medicaid expansion. For instance, it allowed some to charge premiums and co-pays. Under Trump, more will likely be allowed to require participants to work -- a request Obama officials never granted. (States will still have to apply for these waivers and the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services must review them, a process that could take months.)
Yet, another major obstacle to delivering swift blows to Obamacare is Trump and Congressional Republicans' repeated promises not to leave millions of Americans without insurance.
 How Trump could use his executive power on Obamacare
"For the 20 million who rely upon the Affordable Care Act in some form, they will not be without coverage during this transition time," Conway said on Face the Nation Sunday.
That vow limits the extent to which Trump can upend the law's provisions. Changing them too much or injecting too much uncertainty into the market could prompt health insurers to flee next year, which might leave some Americans without options and others forced to pay higher premiums. These are the very problems with the current law that Republicans criticize so they will be wary to take actions that exacerbate them.
The main lobbying organization for health insurers said only that it has been meeting with policymakers to offer its recommendations.
"There is no question the individual health care market has been challenged from the start. The president said he would take swift action, and he has," America's Health Insurance Plans wrote in a statement. "We look forward to working with the administration as well as members of Congress to ensure health care works to lower costs for all Americans."
While insurers are bound by contract to provide coverage in 2017, nothing requires them to continue next year. The carriers are in the final stages of determining their participation and rates for 2018, which they will file with state regulators this spring. They will be watching the administration's moves to make sure it doesn't do anything that leaves them with a pool of sicker and costlier consumers.
 Even as they repeal Obamacare, Republicans still have to fund it
"The short of it is that the Trump administration, by trying to bring relief to some consumers, could just as easily further undermine the already shaky Obamacare risk pool," Robert Laszewski, an Obamacare opponent who runs Health Policy and Strategy Associates wrote in a blog post Sunday morning.
The real work of undoing Obamacare, however, will likely proceed along a two-track system -- through changing regulations at agencies and passing new laws in Congress. Both of those will take more time, especially considering Price has yet to be confirmed and Republican lawmakers remain divided on how to repeal and replace President Obama's landmark health reform law.
 Why GOP governors like Medicaid under Obamacare. Hint: $
The Trump administration can make changes to Obamacare's regulations. But this requires an agency to publish the proposed changes, allow the public to comment and then write a final rule, a process which can take up to two years.
Meanwhile, Republicans in Congress are already on the path to repealing major provisions of Obamacare, though they have yet to decide how and when to come up with a replacement plan. Even after they pass a law changing Obamacare, it could take two or three years for the agencies to pass new regulations and then insurers to come up with new policies to offer consumers.
 Trump rally could hit speed bump in 2017
2. Samsung faces the press: On Monday morning in South Korea, Samsung will hold a press conference revealing what caused the Galaxy Note 7 to catch fire.
It's a result of a months-long investigation conducted by the world's bestselling smartphone maker.
The news conference will mark the second time Samsung tried to explain what went wrong. The first time around, Samsung pointed the finger toward one of its battery suppliers. On Thursday, Samsung will release its fourth quarter and full-year 2016 earnings.
 Galaxy Note 7: Samsung set to reveal what made the phones explode
 Judge rejects arrest warrant for Samsung heir
3. Loads more earnings: It's another big week for earnings as President Donald Trump takes the reigns of the country. Yahoo (YAHOF), AT&T (T, Tech30), Alphabet (GOOG). Microsoft (MSFT, Tech30), Starbucks (SBUX), McDonald's (MCD), Boeing (BA), Ford (F) and Samsung (SSNLF) will report earnings this week. For some companies, the reports will shine light on how robust the holiday shopping season was.
For AT&T, investors will be listening for what's to come for its merger with CNN's parent company Time Warner. Trump has wavered on his support for the merger with AT&T CEO Randall Stephenson recently meeting with him, although the merger didn't come up.
 Goldman Sachs thriving as Trump era set to begin
4. First reading of GDP: On Friday, we'll see how healthy the U.S. economy is under Barack Obama's last few months and what President Trump is inheriting. In the third quarter, the U.S. economy grew 3.2% according to the Bureau of Economic Analysts boasted by consumer spending and exports led by soybeans.
5. Coming this week:
Monday - Tax filing season begins
Tuesday - Samsung earnings; Mick Mulvaney's confirmation hearing
Wednesday - Boeing and AT&T earnings
Thursday - Microsoft, Alphabet, Ford, and Starbucks earnings
Friday - First reading of fourth-quarter GDP
In a letter reported first by CNN, the Democratic-aligned opposition research group American Bridge 21st Century is asking FBI Director James Comey to investigate whether Tillerson may have perjured himself.
Even Senator Bob Corker, the Republican chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, seemed to suggest that Tillerson had in fact lobbied Congress about the sanctions placed on Iran.
"I think you called me during this time," Corker said, referring to a conversation he had with Tillerson about Iran sanctions.
Tillerson said Exxon (XOM) participated in discussions about how sanctions were going to be implemented and how they would impact U.S. business interests.
He held steadfast, refusing to concede.
"ExxonMobil did not lobby against the sanctions," he said multiple times.
Surprised lawmakers produced lobbying records suggesting otherwise. Democratic Senator Bob Menendez held up lobbying reports showing Exxon spent millions of dollars to lobby Congress about the sanctions placed on Russia as well as the 2010 Iran sanctions.
For instance, a 2014 lobbying form shows that Exxon lobbied Congress on three different sanctions bills: Russian Aggression Prevention Act of 2014; the Ukraine Freedom Support Act of 2014 and the Sanction Iran, Safeguard America Act of 2014.
"I know you're new to this, but it's pretty clear...There was lobbying here," said Menendez.
Menendez noted that lobbying disclosure forms are not needed when companies are simply seeking information or clarification about a bill. "That's not lobbying. Lobbying specifically is to promote a position," he said.
Tillerson said lobbying forms don't require companies to indicate what side they took.
"I don't know if the forms indicate we were lobbying for the sanctions or against the sanctions," Tillerson said.
 Exxon would win if Tillerson works to lift Russia sanctions
However, Menendez countered: "I know you weren't lobbying for the sanctions." In fact, he said: "Exxon became the in-house lobbyist for Russia against these sanctions."
Exxon had every reason to be against those sanctions. Exxon bet billions on a 2011 deal with Russian oil giant Rosneft -- a deal that Vladimir Putin himself appeared to celebrate the signing -- to develop the vast untapped oil resources in the Arctic. Exxon has admitted it may have lost up to $1 billion due to the 2014 sanctions.
Tillerson said it's his understanding that lobbying reports are required whether you are lobbying for or against a given legislation.
"So you believe you were paying lobbyists for sanctions?" Menendez asked incredulously.
Tillerson replied, "I don't know, senator. It would depend on the circumstances."
Exxon put out a statement and a tweet backing Tillerson's testimony.
"As our former chairman said, we provided information about the impact of sanctions, but did not lobby against sanctions," an Exxon spokesperson said. "The lobby disclosure reports do not contradict his testimony and do not say we lobbied against sanctions."
Let's be clear: we engage with lawmakers to discuss sanction impacts, not whether or not sanctions should be imposed

 Tillerson's Exxon didn't put America first
Tillerson also said he was unaware of whether Exxon is a member of USA *Engage, a business coalition that has lobbied against sanctions on Iran and other countries.
That's despite the fact that Exxon is listed as a member of USA *Engage on the site's archives. And a spokesperson for USA *Engage confirmed with CNNMoney that Exxon is a member of the group.
In 2014, USA *Engage put out a statement saying "we regret that Congress has legislated additional U.S. sanctions against Russia."
In December, Trump tweeted that they stand to face a 35% tax. In recent weeks, he even threatened GM (GM) and Toyota (TM), both of whom have large operations in Mexico.
The border tax that Trump was referring to could be one of two things: a tariff, or what Congressional Republicans want -- a border adjustment tax (BAT). A tariff only affects imports. A BAT affects imports and exports.
 What is a border adjustment tax
However, experts say that it is highly unlikely that Trump can impose either tariffs or a BAT against specific companies.
"There's nothing in the way that Congress wrote the various trade authorities that was intended to give the president power to go after a single company solely for producing abroad," says Edward Alden, a trade expert at the Council on Foreign Relations.
The office of the U.S. Trade Representative, which is in charge of negotiating trade deals, told CNNMoney in December that it did not know of a case of a tariff being applied specifically to a U.S. company. However, tariffs have been applied to foreign companies associated with U.S. firms to varying degrees.
Overall, Trump's intention is to save U.S. jobs. But when America has used tariffs before, the result has been mixed -- they save some U.S. jobs but cost others. Tariffs almost always raise prices on products for ordinary Americans.
Experts across the spectrum say if tariffs are applied on Mexico, it could retaliate against America by taxing U.S. goods shipped south of the border. That would be the beginning of a trade war.
The border adjustment tax can't be applied to specific companies either.
"It is not company-specific in any way, it would be imposed across the board," says Robert Scott, a trade expert at the Economic Policy Institute.
In theory, here's how a border adjustment tax works: It gives tax breaks to U.S. businesses that ship goods to other countries, and it takes away tax breaks from companies that bring in products from abroad.
 Remove car imports, and U.S.-Mexico deficit 'vanishes'
The idea is to discourage companies from putting jobs and operations overseas solely for tax reasons. Such a move usually results in making imports more expensive and exports cheaper.
But there's a catch. Supporters of a BAT say it will work if the dollar significantly rises in value in order to make sure Americans don't have to pay more for goods brought into the United States.
Proponents say the BAT will increase the dollar's value because, among other factors, U.S. exports would be cheaper and more attractive to foreign buyers. Higher demand for U.S. goods helps drive up the dollar's value.
However, skeptics say the cookie won't crumble that way.
Some experts estimate the dollar would have to rise as much as 20% for the BAT to be effective and not make Americans pay more for food, clothes and TVs.
Many don't believe the BAT will make the dollar jump that much because the greenback is influenced by lots of global factors, not just U.S. tax reform.
"My view is that while the dollar should appreciate further if the BAT is approved, it will not appreciate enough so as to keep the prices of imported goods from rising," says Carlos Peyrelongue, a Bank of America (BAC) research analyst based in Mexico.
It is important to note that Trump has wide ranging power to use tariffs against other countries without asking for approval from Congress. But under current laws, he can't impose a "major border tax" on specific companies.
The workers are organizing with the help of Fight for $15, an organization that has successfully lobbied for minimum wage hikes in several cities and states.
"Whether [his] nomination is confirmed, denied or withdrawn: we won't back down for one minute in our demands for $15 an hour and union rights for all workers," Hernandez said.
Puzder's confirmation hearing has yet to be scheduled.
 Trump's Labor secretary doesn't like Trumponomics very much
Fight for $15 points out that Puzder's $4.4 million annual salary means he "means he makes more in one day than he pays his minimum wage workers in one year." Puzder has publicly opposed minimum wage increases.
CKE workers also spoke out on Tuesday at a panel in Washington put together by Democratic senators to discuss poor working conditions. Their stories included stolen wages, working overtime with no pay, and the struggle to support a family on a minimum wage salary.
As labor secretary, Puzder would be in charge of enforcing federal workplace safety and wage laws. But his own employees point to numerous safety violations and wage-related problems to illustrate that Puzder is not fit for the job.
 Carl's Jr., Hardee's workers blast Labor nominee at Senate forum
"If our elected leaders really want to make America great, they should confirm a labor secretary who looks out for working people like us, not someone like Andy Puzder who has made millions by stealing our wages," Jessenia Adame, a Carl's Jr. worker from Austin, said in a press release.
Citing recent investigative journalism exposés, Democratic Senator Tim Kaine asked Tillerson whether Exxon ignored internal research going back to the 1970s on the impact of burning fossil fuels on the climate, and funded organizations that spread misinformation about the growing scientific consensus.
"Since I'm no longer with ExxonMobil, I'm in no position to answer on their behalf," said Tillerson, who resigned as CEO at the end of 2016 to prepare for the confirmation hearings.
Noting the 42 years Tillerson spent at Exxon, Kaine asked whether Trump's pick for secretary of state lacks the knowledge to respond -- or is simply refusing to answer.
"A little of both," Tillerson said, prompting laughs from the audience.
Kaine, Hillary Clinton's 2016 running mate, said he had a "hard time believing" Tillerson lacked the knowledge.
Tillerson's refusal to defend Exxon'  (XOM)climate change history stood in stark contrast with his willingness to explain other actions taken by the company he worked at for four decades.

 Can a career oil man help save the planet?
The back-and-forth between Tillerson and Kaine highlighted the awkwardness of Trump nominating an Exxon man who could be representing America as its key emissary on climate issues. As secretary of state, Tillerson would have the power to negotiate a U.S. exit from the Paris climate agreement and even give the controversial Keystone XL pipeline a green light.
Tillerson's hearing was interrupted several times by outburst from protesters who urged the senators to vote against his confirmation.
While Trump has said that "nobody really knows" if climate change is real, Tillerson is not a skeptic.
During the hearing, Tillerson said he came to the conclusion years ago that "the risk of climate change does exist and the consequences could be serious enough that action should be taken."
Asked if human activity is contributing to climate change, Tillerson said the "increase in greenhouse gas concentration in the atmosphere is having an effect." However, he added that "our ability to predict that effect is very limited."
 Tillerson's Exxon didn't put America first
Seeking to ease conflict of interest concerns, Tillerson has reached an ethics agreement that would require him to sell the $54 million in Exxon stock he owns. Exxon will also cash out Tillerson's $181 million retirement package and put it in a trust that can't invest in the company.
Kaine asked Tillerson if he is subject to a confidentiality agreement that continues to be enforced that would limit his ability to answer questions, such as the ones on climate change.
"To my knowledge I have no such confidentiality agreement in place, but I would have to consult with counsel," Tillerson said.
Climate activists were quick to seize on Tillerson's evasive answers.
"We need a secretary of state who acknowledges that the climate crisis requires bold action, not an oil industry CEO who is dedicated to spreading misinformation," May Boeve, executive director of climate activist group 350.org, said in a statement.
 Will Tillerson get a tax break on his Exxon payout?
During the hearing, Kaine read from a 1982 letter uncovered by Inside Climate News that was written by an Exxon scientist.
"Over the past several years a clear scientific consensus has emerged regarding the expected climatic effects of increased atmospheric CO2," Roger Cohen, Exxon's former director of theoretical and mathematical sciences laboratory, wrote in the letter.
Cohen noted the "consensus is that a doubling of" carbon emissions from pre-industrial revolution levels would cause a rise in temperatures that would "bring about significant changes in the earth's climate."
Tillerson refused to answer the questions about whether Exxon downplayed or obscured the climate research.
"The question would have to be put to ExxonMobil," he said.
For its part, Exxon said in a statement that it rejects "long-discredited conspiracy theories that attempt to portray legitimate scientific observations and differences on policy approaches as climate denial."
Exxon said that it provides funding to a "broad range of groups that support free market solutions." However, the company said it discontinued funding to groups when they took "extreme positions that were distracting from the important discussions on climate policy and/or not supported by science."
"We do not fund climate denial," Exxon said.
Democratic critics will surely have lots of questions about this investment vehicle during his upcoming confirmation hearing.
"I've never seen that before. He needs to disclose what's in this entity that has his name on it," said Richard Painter, the chief White House ethics lawyer for President George W. Bush. "And then the decision needs to be made to sell everything in it, or turn it over to a blind trustee. He cannot keep conflict-creating assets in this entity."
 Progressives launch TV ad blitz targeting Trump Treasury pick Mnuchin
Mnuchin did say that he will sell the shares he currently holds in a number of blue chip companies. These include stakes worth at least $1 million each in Berkshire Hathaway (BRKA), Goldman Sachs (GS), Microsoft (MSFT, Tech30) and Verizon (VZ, Tech30).
His largest holding appears to be more than $50 million worth of common stock in CIT Group (CIT). Mnuchin sold the bank he led, OneWest, to CIT for $3.4 billion in 2015. The filing discloses that CIT is holding back $2 million that it owes to a trust Mnuchin controls "in order to cover certain contingent liabilities" of that merger.
The details of what those liabilities were not revealed in the filing. However CIT has disclosed that the department of Housing and Urban Development is investigating the foreclosure practices of OneWest's reverse mortgage business, and it has set aside about $500 million to settle that investigation.
 Treasury pick Mnuchin's 'widow foreclosure' problem
Also among the assets Mnunchin will sell are shares of Lehman Brothers, the Wall Street firm whose 2008 bankruptcy helped spark the financial markets meltdown. His holdings of the near worthless stock are valued at between $15,001 and $50,000, suggesting that he might have taken a much larger hit at the time of the bankruptcy filing.
He will also pull out of his investment fund, Dune Capital Management, as well as the real estate partnerships and movie investment vehicle he operates with the Dune name. His holdings in the real estate partnerships are estimated to be worth at least $2 million.
Mnunchin reported holding $25 million in cash in various accounts. He also is an art collector, holding an untitled oil painting by Willem de Kooning worth more than $1 million and three other pieces of art held for investment worth at least $700,000 between them. He will not have to sell off any of the art.
--Jill Disis contributed to this report.
"They seriously abused those positions," Lynch said at a press conference Wednesday.
Those who were indicted, who are all German, are charged with one count of conspiracy to defraud the U.S., defraud American customers and violate the federal Clean Air Act -- which regulates harmful emissions from cars.
 Volkswagen settlement talks to include $4.3 billion and a guilty plea
One of those indicted was Oliver Schmidt, who headed the company's regulatory compliance division, was arrested in Miami over the weekend.
"This wasn't simply the action of some faceless, multinational corporation. This conspiracy involved flesh-and-blood individuals who used their positions within Volkswagen to deceive both regulators and consumers," said Deputy Attorney General Sally Yates.
 Volkswagen executive arrested in emissions scandal
Volkswagen declined to comment on the indictments, but the company issued a statement about the settlement. "The agreements that we have reached with the U.S. government reflect our determination to address misconduct that went against all of the values Volkswagen holds so dear," said CEO Matthias Muller.
Muller replaced former VW CEO Martin Winterkorn, who resigned amid the controversy.
The company has been under fire since 2015 for installing software on millions of vehicles that allowed the cars to cheat emission tests.
A federal investigation into the scandal is still ongoing.
As part of a plea deal, VW has also agreed to hire an independent monitor to oversee the company for at least three years.
In June, VW agreed to a separate settlement of $14.7 billion. That deal included payouts to customers and funds allocated for environmental cleanup.
This is not a discount, but rather a credit that can be applied to other purchases at Amazon.com.
According to Amazon, a purchase of $1,000 on Amazon.com would earn $50 that could be redeemed on future purchases.
The Chase card is different from the Amazon.com card that was already available, according to an Amazon spokesman, because it gives the customer credit for non-Amazon purchases.
Donohue added that since NAFTA is 23 years old, it could be "modernized and strengthened," but didn't provide details on how.
According to the Chamber, 40 million American jobs depend on international trade.
We must preserve & expand the benefits of trade while helping those workers & communities who've been hurt https://t.co/FNBBq5d2ml #LetsGrow pic.twitter.com/SdACUTmaIJ

Trump trashed the North American Free Trade Agreement throughout his campaign, calling it the "worst trade deal in history" and vowing to repeal it. He has threatened to impose tariffs on imports, including a 35% tax on goods made in Mexico by U.S. companies such as Ford (F). He blamed cheap imports from Mexico and China for eroding U.S. manufacturing jobs.
 What Trump said at his press conference
In his first press conference as President-elect on Wednesday, Trump reiterated that any American companies that manufacture goods in other countries are "going to pay a very large border tax" when they import those products into the U.S.
Aside from trade, Donohue seemed to be supportive of Trump's policies and opposed to those of President Obama. He talked a lot about the fact that regulations are bad for business, and identified the Obama administration's top culprits as the Affordable Care Act, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act as well as regulations on the energy industry.
 NAFTA: What it is, and why Trump hates it
"Lawmakers should work quickly to rescind and replace the restrictive energy policies of the current administration so that we can unleash more growth and more jobs for Americans," Donohue said.
Projecting "modest" economic growth of 2% or 2.5% in 2017, Donohue also said he expects the Federal Reserve to hike its key interest rate two or three times.
Obama recently took credit for creating 15 million jobs since 2010, the lowest point for employment during his presidency.
Correction: An earlier version of this story misspelled Tom Donohue's name.
Mylan (MYL), which has already come under Congressional scrutiny for dramatic price hikes of its life-saving allergy medication EpiPen, fell 3.5%, and Bristol-Myers Squibb dived 4%.
Allergan (AGN) and Valeant (VRX), two other biotechs that have been criticized for raising drug prices, also fell more than 3%. And the iShares Nasdaq Biotechnology ETF (IBB), which owns many of these companies, fell 3% too.
Trump's tough talk about drug prices can't be reassuring to investors, many of whom had believed that Hillary Clinton was likely to be tougher on the health care industry than Trump.
During the past year, the drug industry has come under fire for excessive price increases, especially since the now notorious "bad boy of pharma" Martin Shkreli raised the price of the live-saving drug Daraprim more than 5,000% after his company bought it.
 Trump threat fails to halt drug price hikes so far in 2017
Clinton attacked the drug industry several times on the campaign trail, but Trump didn't bring much attention to the issue of drug prices.
That has now changed, although it shouldn't come as a huge surprise to investors. Trump has been more of a populist than a traditional, pro-Big Business Republican.
He's complained about the high cost of Air Force One as well as the F-35 fighter plane, comments that have led to volatility in the stocks of the companies that make those jets -- Boeing (BA) and Lockheed Martin (LMT).
Trump also lamented the fact that many pharmaceutical and biotech companies are producing goods overseas instead of in the United States.
"Drug companies supply their products here but they don't make them here," he said.
It's a familiar refrain for Trump, who has also taken car companies Ford (F), GM (GM) -- and even Japan's Toyota (TM) -- to task for making cars in Mexico. Trump also has criticized Carrier-owner United Technologies (UTX) for moving jobs to Mexico.
Investors have mostly shrugged off Trump's penchant for attacking big businesses so far.
The broader market remains near all-time highs after surging in the first few weeks after the election.
But stocks went on a bit of a wild ride Wednesday during Trump's press conference.
The Dow, which was up about 100 points and near 20,000 when the press conference began, quickly gave up nearly all it gains and slipped into negative territory for a bit. But the market rebounded as the press conference wore on.
The VIX (VIX), a gauge of market volatility, also shot higher at the start of the press conference before pulling back. CNNMoney's Fear & Greed Index remained in Greed mode.
"Private insurance generates a relatively high share of total administrative expenditure," the report's authors explained, noting that admin costs are generally lower when governments manage health care coverage.
The report was published this week to shine a light on wasteful health care spending, which sometimes does more harm than good.
"At a time when public budgets are under pressure worldwide, it is alarming that around one-fifth of health expenditure makes no or minimal contribution to good health outcomes," the OECD said in its report.
Governments could spend significantly less and still improve patients' health, it added.
The OECD said excessive pharmaceutical costs, expensive surgeries and corrupt practices all inflated costs for health care systems around the world.
In his first press conference since July, President-elect Donald Trump said Wednesday that he's looking to target the pharmaceutical industry in an effort to cut drug costs.
 How Obamacare stacks up against global health systems
When it comes to reducing spending on admin, the cuts should be carefully managed to avoid damaging beneficial activities such as data analysis, the OECD said.
It noted that Obamacare had already helped reduce non-medical spending in the sector, resulting in $3.7 billion in savings between 2011 and 2013.
The OECD said poor coordination between health care providers, duplication of tasks and doctors spending too much time on paperwork all contributed to inflated admin costs.
Coffee prices have shot up more than 6% in the past month on commodity markets, and they are up nearly 30% in the past year.
Those higher costs make it more difficult for companies like Smucker (SJM) to make money from selling java.
But Smucker and other companies have gotten burned (sorry) by raising prices too aggressively in the past. Caffeine may be an addictive drug, but even coffee drinkers have their limits.
 Can new CEO of Starbucks escape the shadow of Howard Schultz?
Smucker raised coffee prices by nearly 10% in the summer of 2014, also because of higher commodity costs. But the move proved costly to the company.
Just a few months later, Smucker conceded that it had boosted prices too aggressively.
Mark Smucker, president of U.S. retail coffee for the firm, told analysts in November 2014 that consumers suffered from "sticker shock" due to higher prices.
Smucker added that the company "wouldn't rip the Band-Aid off as quickly again in the future" if commodity prices rose again, and called the price hike a "bit of a misstep."
Smucker wound up cutting coffee prices in 2015 as a result. Smucker cut prices again last summer.
Rival Kraft, which owns Maxwell House and Gevalia, also raised prices dramatically in 2014 and then cut them in 2015. Kraft is now part of Kraft Heinz (KHC).
So it will be interesting to see if Kraft Heinz follows suit and boosts its coffee prices now that Smucker has done so.
Coffee king Starbucks (SBUX) has also raised prices several times recently.
 Starbucks boosts prices on cold drinks
It hiked the costs of some of its coffee and espresso drinks at company owned stores by 10 cents to 30 cents last July. It also increased the price of some iced beverages last November.
Prices went up at Dunkin' Donuts stores last year too, although Dunkin'  (DNKN)CEO Nigel Travis told investors in July the increases had more to do with individual franchises reacting to minimum wage hikes boosting labor costs as opposed to commodity prices.
But if you like Dunkin'-branded coffee that's sold by Smucker, you are going to be paying more for it at your local grocery soon. And as long as commodity prices keep rising, it's likely that other coffee companies will eventually follow suit and lift prices too.
Talk about a buzzkill!
Here's a list of 2017's biggest risks, according to WEF, Eurasia Group and Control Risks.
An inward turn for the U.S.?
Trump has criticized NATO allies for not spending enough on defense, promised to scrap free trade agreements and questioned U.S. involvement in conflicts abroad.
Trump's approach amounts to a rejection of "American exceptionalism," the idea that the U.S. should actively promote democracy, civil rights and the rule of law around the world, according to Ian Bremmer, president of Eurasia Group.
 Obama got tough on China. It cost U.S. jobs and raised prices
Bremmer said Trump sees international cooperation in purely transactional terms: "If there's not an obvious, near-term benefit for the U.S. ... it's not something the U.S. should be doing."
An American retreat from the world stage is bound to cause problems for its allies.
"The fact that the country that has been the linchpin of the global order since [World War II] is no longer available for service, that is absolutely the top risk in the world today," added Bremmer.

Angry voters
Widening gaps between rich and poor, and old and young, are fueling feelings of resentment.
WEF said that while inequality between countries has been decreasing over the past 30 years, inequality within many developed nations -- including the U.S. and Britain -- has risen. The group pointed to Brexit and Trump's election as clear signs of a backlash against the status quo.
"Rapid changes of attitudes in areas such as gender, sexual orientation, race, multiculturalism, environmental protection and international cooperation have led many voters -- particularly the older and less-educated ones -- to feel left behind in their own countries," the WEF said in its annual risk report.
 Brexit: 18 months that will shape the U.K.'s future
In Europe, France, Germany and the Netherlands will all hold major elections in 2017. Populist and eurosceptic parties could make major gains, and further undermine the region's precarious political balance.
China - opportunity or risk?
China has a lot to worry about in 2017. Trump has threatened Beijing with punishing tariffs and even questioned the U.S. position that Taiwan is part of "one China."
Experts say the relationship between the world's two biggest economies could change radically in 2017.
Despite real policy differences, the two powers have avoided major conflicts in the past in order to protect their crucial trade and investment relationship.
"As of January, when Trump takes the oath of office, the feeling is no longer mutual," wrote Andrew Gilholm and Michael Moran of the consultancy Control Risks.
 Why Trump poses 'single biggest risk' to the global economy
The analysts said it's unclear how the relationship will play out should Trump implement the anti-China policies he promised during the campaign.
"Leaders in Beijing are vastly more experienced, but we have little precedent for how they may react if pushed and provoked by the U.S. on issues where China is most sensitive," Moran and Gilholm wrote.
Russian disruption
A reduced geopolitical role for the U.S. could further embolden Moscow to "act as a rogue and disruptor," said Bremmer.
And President Vladimir Putin won't be chastened by allegations that he ordered Russian intelligence agencies to disrupt U.S. elections.
"He'll hack away at the French and other upcoming European votes. And the West won't want or be able to muster a serious response -- Trump's not interested, and EU leaders are either too weak or tired of sanctions," Bremmer said.
UAE vice president and ruler of Dubai, Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, said the new energy strategy should save the emirates $190 billion over three decades.
Low oil prices are forcing major producers, including Saudi Arabia, to rethink their economic strategies.
 Why Apple is investing in wind turbines in China
"Our new energy plan balances supply and demand, and takes into consideration our international commitments in terms of the environment," said Sheikh Mohammed in a statement.
The UAE, which has one of the highest carbon footprints in the world, ratified the 2015 Paris agreement on climate change in September last year.
The energy plan outlines a reduction in carbon dioxide emissions from its power plants by 70%.
By 2050, the UAE is planning to generate 44% of its power from renewable sources (such as solar), 38% from gas, 12% from clean coal and 6% from nuclear energy.
Its first nuclear power station should start generating electricity this year.
Leahy, however, acknowledged that the A380 has been a disappointment.
There are 207 of the double-decker aircraft currently in use around the world, with 112 more orders lined up. That's far below the 1,200 orders Airbus said it expected when the aircraft was introduced in 2005.
"Would I like the orders to be stronger? Of course I would," Leahy said Wednesday
The A380 was designed to challenge Boeing (BA) in the super large aircraft market. But many airlines are now moving towards more fuel efficient planes. Fuel is the second biggest expense for airlines behind staff costs.
 Airbus delays A380 deliveries as superjumbo woes mount
The poor performance has led to questions about the program's future. Airbus has already said it would scale back production of the A380 this year. It will build only 12 per year from 2018. That's down from 27 it delivered in 2015.
To make the aircraft more attractive, Airbus (EADSF) is looking into increasing the number of passengers it carries.
"We could probably add close to 50 seats, optimizing the cabin layout whilst keeping the unique features of the cabin and comfort," said CEO Fabrice Bregier.
 Airbus launches booking site for travelers who love A380 jets
Most airlines currently fly the aircraft with roughly 500 passengers, depending on the seating configuration.
Airbus said Wednesday it delivered a record 688 aircraft in 2016. That's fewer than archrival Boeing, which delivered 748 airliners last year.
Trump is also likely to face questions about allegations that Russian operatives claim to have compromising personal and financial information about him.
His comments at the conference -- much like his tweets -- will be closely dissected and have the potential to move markets around the world.
2. Rex Tillerson's confirmation: The U.S. Senate will hold a hearing today on the nomination of former ExxonMobil (XOM) CEO Rex Tillerson to be the next secretary of state.
The confirmation hearing around 9:15 a.m. ET is likely to focus on the oilman's relationship with Russian President Vladimir Putin. Tillerson is likely to be quizzed on climate change and energy policy as well.
There's also a confirmation hearing scheduled on Wednesday for Elaine Chao, Trump's pick to lead the Transportation Department.
Before the Bell newsletter: Key market news. In your inbox. Subscribe now!
3. Premarket movers -- Merck, ADM: Shares in drug company Merck (MRK) are getting a boost premarket after it revealed late Tuesday that the U.S. Food and Drug Administration is reviewing a license for a lung cancer treatment, Keytruda. It's going through an "accelerated approval" program.
On the flip side, the agribusiness Archer Daniels Midland (ADM) is seeing shares fall premarket after the company announced it signed a deal to buy a Kansas-based pet-food producer Crosswind Industries.
This is the second big pet-related takeover this week. Candy-bar maker Mars announced on Monday that it's buying VCA, a pet health care business, in a multi-billion dollar deal.
4. Stocks to watch -- Samsung, Volkswagen, Sainsbury: Shares in Samsung (SSNLF) performed well Wednesday despite news about its links to a growing corruption scandal.
Prosecutors have named the heir to the Samsung empire as a suspect in a massive corruption scandal that has rocked South Korea.
Samsung shares closed with a 2.8% gain.
Volkswagen (VLKAY) stock is also buoyant in Germany after the automaker announced it's negotiating a settlement with the U.S. Justice Department that would require it to pay $4.3 billion in fines and plead guilty to criminal wrongdoing over its diesel emission scandal.
Shares in J Sainsbury (JSAIY) are rallying in London after the grocery chain released a well-received business update for the holiday season.
5. Global market overview: U.S. stock futures are holding steady after a mixed trading day on Tuesday.
The Nasdaq pushed to fresh record highs yesterday while the other two indexes didn't make many major moves.
European trading is relatively muted right now while Asian markets are closing the day with mixed results.
Download CNN MoneyStream for up-to-the-minute market data and news
6. Coming this week:
Wednesday - Trump scheduled to give press conference; Tillerson confirmation hearing Thursday - Delta (DAL) earnings  Friday - Bank of America (BAC), JPMorgan Chase (JPM) and Wells Fargo (WFC) report earnings
Samsung's deepening links to the corruption investigation have done further damage to the company's image after the humiliating fiasco over its fire-prone Galaxy Note 7 smartphone last year.
 Samsung faces rare public grilling over political scandal
As he arrived at the prosecutor's office on Thursday morning, Lee told reporters that he was sorry his company wasn't "able to show a better side to the people." He then bowed and walked away.
He and other top South Korean business leaders have faced questions over donations their companies made to two foundations controlled by Choi Soon-sil, a confidante of Park. Prosecutors say the payments were made in return for political favors -- an allegation the business leaders have denied.
Samsung Electronics (SSNLF) declined to comment on the announcement that Lee, its vice chairman, is now a suspect in the investigation.
During a public grilling by lawmakers last month, Lee denied any wrongdoing. He said that Park didn't directly ask him to support foundations linked to Choi and that he was unaware of Samsung's payments to them.
 These big companies had a terrible 2016
But prosecutors are investigating whether the company made the payments in order to secure backing for a contentious merger in 2015 that helped Lee strengthen his control over Samsung Electronics, a key part of the family's sprawling business empire.
South Korea's National Pension Service was a major shareholder in one of the Samsung subsidiaries involved in the merger. Its vote was crucial in ensuring the deal went through in the face of vigorous opposition from a U.S.-based activist hedge fund.
The public pension fund's offices have been raided as part of the corruption investigation. A former cabinet minister was arrested last month on charges that he pressured the fund to approve the Samsung merger.
Lee's elderly father, Samsung Group Chairman Lee Kun-hee, suffered a heart attack in 2014, which accelerated the conglomerate's succession planning.
-- K.J. Kwon and Stella Kim contributed to this report.
Major corporate settlements usually do not include a guilty plea.
A federal complaint unsealed this week alleged that top executives at Volkswagen ordered U.S. managers to mislead regulators about the company's use of software to cheat diesel emissions tests.
And a Volkswagen executive was arrested by the FBI earlier in January for his alleged role in emissions cheating and attempts to cover it up.
The company has already been hit with a $14.7 billion settlement it agreed to in June. That deal included payouts to customers, as well as funds allocated for environmental cleanup and the promotion of zero-emission vehicles.
 Volkswagen agrees to record $14.7 billion settlement over emissions cheating
The agreement being negotiated currently with the Justice Department still needs to be approved by Volkswagen's management and supervisory boards. U.S. officials and courts also need to accept the deal.
Volkswagen first admitted to fitting diesel vehicles with software to fool emissions tests in 2015. CEO Martin Winterkorn resigned amid the fallout.
It also cited the U.K.'s vote to leave the European Union as a major uncertainty to its economic outlook.
World Bank leaders forecast the global economy growing 2.7% this year, down a notch from 2.8% projected in June.
The report never mentions Trump by name, although it describes his economic policies.
However, the gloomier forecast stands in stark contrast to many Americans' views about Trump's policies. The stock market has rallied since the election while consumer confidence and business optimism have risen sharply.
Many are betting Trump will cut taxes, ramp up infrastructure spending and get rid of regulations to boost growth.
 Trump threatens GM with 'big border tax' in Mexico
But he also wants to get tough on America's trade partners. Trump has repeatedly threatened countries and companies with tariffs and taxes if jobs don't come back to America. Such a trade stance risks putting the U.S. and its major trade partners in a trade war, which would affect the global economy, economists say.
The World Bank warned that Trump's potential trade policies would be bad for the U.S. economy, alluding to Trump's threat to withdraw from NAFTA, the free trade deal between Mexico, Canada and the United States.
"If implemented, plans to retreat from trade agreements or to raise tariffs and trade barriers could lead to retaliatory action and have negative effects on the outlook for the U.S. economy," the World Bank said.
It didn't change its outlook for the U.S. economy, citing Trump's highly uncertain policies as the reason it couldn't forecast U.S. growth. It projects the U.S. economy growing 2.2% this year.
The World Bank's warning on trade wasn't lost on experts.
"They're probably trying to send a message to governments: 'Hey, you're playing with fire here,'" says Scott Anderson, chief economist at Bank of the West in San Francisco. Protectionist trade policy "is one of my bigger concerns about the outlook for the next couple of years."
GM (GM) sold 3.9 million cars in China, its largest market, last year. That's a 7.1% increase, and the company said Tuesday that it's on track for comparable sales this year.
 Car sales set another U.S. record
But GM's U.S. sales slipped in 2016 -- the first time since it filed bankruptcy in 2009 that the nation's largest automaker had reported a drop in U.S. sales. GM cited slumping sales when it announced plans last year to cut 3,300 jobs across three U.S. factories.
Crossovers, trucks and SUVs will continue to drive global sales, the automaker said in a press release, which should boost 2017 earnings per share year over year.
The company also said it will repurchase $9 billion worth of shares by the end of 2017. The buyback plan started in 2015 in a bid to avoid a battle with shareholders about how the carmaker spends its cash. So far, $6 billion worth of buybacks have been executed, the company said Tuesday.
That puts some GOP representatives in a risky and difficult position as they consider repealing a law that insures tens of thousands of their constituents.
"This can cause some tension between the desire that they might have to, on the one hand, do what helps their constituents, and on the other hand, do something that has been a pretty longstanding part of Republican ideology and their commitment to overturn Obamacare," said Leighton Ku, Director of George Washington University's Center for Health Policy Research.
And with a Republican-controlled Congress and presidency, lawmakers' votes aren't just symbolic statements anymore. "Now, it becomes real," Ku added.
 Why so many people hate Obamacare
On the flip side, plenty of House Republicans represent districts with few Obamacare enrollees. Of the 51 districts with 15,000 constituents or less on the exchanges, 36 are represented by the GOP. Those representatives will likely face little voter pressure about protecting the law.
About 6.3 million, or 55%, of Obamacare enrollees live in districts with a Republican representative, compared with the 5.2 million who live in Democrat-led districts, the Kaiser Family Foundation report found. As of March 2016, 11.5 million people participated on the Obamacare exchanges.
Notably, the House of Representatives has a similar makeup to the distribution of people who obtain coverage through Obamacare; Republicans comprise 241, or 55%, of the 435 House seats in this year's new Congress.
Republican lawmakers have begun the process of repealing Obama's signature health reform law, but the party is fractured on how and when to replace it. It's also unclear how many Americans would be covered under any GOP alternative.
A growing number of Republicans in Congress are raising concerns about the political backlash that could follow if the GOP repeals Obamacare without a replacement plan in place.
 Republican Obamacare fan hopes Trump's stance softens
That backlash might be most severe in the congressional districts with the highest Obamacare enrollment. At number one: Florida's 27th district in south Miami, where about 96,000 people, or 13% of the district, obtain their health coverage on the Obamacare exchange. That district is headed by Republican Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, who has favored Obamacare's repeal and replacement. In 2013, She called the law's implementation "bungled" and "not the answer for America's health care system." Her office did not immediately return a request seeking comment.
Florida's 26th district, led by Rep. Carlos Curbelo, and its 25th district, represented by Mario Diaz-Balart, are also led by Republicans with more than 70,000 estimated people on the exchanges, according to the report.
House Democrats that represent South Florida districts with some of the highest Obamacare enrollments in the country include Rep. Frederica Wilson (24th district), the former chairperson of the Democratic National Party Debbie Wasserman Schultz (23rd district), and Alcee Hastings (20th district).
 Republicans may speed up parts of Obamacare replacement
Florida has the highest number of Obamacare participants of any of the 39 states on the federal exchanges, with more than 1.7 million people enrolled last year. Texas follows close behind Florida, and North Carolina and Georgia also have high numbers of Obamacare participants.
Facebook (FB, Tech30), Amazon (AMZN, Tech30), Netflix (NFLX, Tech30) and Google owner Alphabet (GOOGL, Tech30) have all hit new records more recently than Apple.
But there are several reasons to believe that Apple might finally be back on track.
The stock has had a nice run lately, gaining about 8% since the presidential election.
Although tech investors were initially nervous about Donald Trump's win because of some antagonistic tweets about Silicon Valley leaders, Apple and other tech stocks have since enjoyed a strong rally.
Part of that is due to the more general hope that Trump's policies will boost corporate and consumer spending. That obviously would help Apple and other gadget makers.
 This was Apple's prototype for the iPhone
But there are also growing hopes that the Trump administration may lower some corporate taxes, which could entice Apple and other tech giants hoarding cash overseas -- like Microsoft (MSFT, Tech30) and Google -- to bring that back to the U.S.
Apple currently has $237.6 billion in cash on its balance sheet. CFO Luca Maestri said during Apple's most recent earnings call with investors in October that $216 billion of that iMountain was being held overseas.
If Apple is able to repatriate -- i.e. bring back -- that cash to the U.S., the company could potentially use it on acquisitions, stock buybacks or higher dividends. Investors would probably approve of that.
Another cause for optimism? Growing hopes that the recent iPhone 7 will continue to sell well, especially due to the massive problems facing Android rival Samsung in the wake of its fire-prone (and now defunct) Galaxy Note 7.
There is also growing excitement about the 10th-anniversary version of the iPhone that will be unveiled later this year.
Will Apple call it the iPhone 8? The Ocho? Skip 8 and 9 altogether and call it the 10? Or maybe name it the iPhone X if Apple wants to mimic the NFL and start using Roman numerals?
Whatever the newest iPhone is called, investors are hoping that there will be enough new bells and whistles to live up to the hype -- and help dispel the notion that Apple has lost its innovative edge since Steve Jobs died and Tim Cook has led the company.
 Apple cut Tim Cook's pay after missing internal sales goals
UBS analyst Steven Milunovich wrote in a report earlier this week that patience is still required with Apple's stock. But he thinks that the stock should start gaining momentum as optimism builds about the next iPhone.
And Morgan Stanley analyst Katy Huberty is even more optimistic. She just named Apple as her top large hardware stock pick for the year, citing expectations of Apple bringing back cash from overseas as well as broader tax reform under Trump.
But Huberty argues that perhaps the biggest catalyst for Apple will be iPhone sales in China.
Even though Apple has faced tough competition from Chinese smartphone rivals like Xiaomi, Huawei, Vivo and Oppo, Huberty thinks that those companies are catering more to the lower-end of the market.
She believes that once Apple does unveil a major upgrade to the iPhone, the company's market share in China will tick higher again.
"Investors worry Apple has lost its edge in China. We don't believe this is the case," she wrote. "High-end Chinese users are committed to Apple but are waiting for a more meaningful change...to upgrade."
Huberty thinks that Apple will hit a new all-time high over the next year. Her 12-month price target is $148 --nearly 25% higher than current levels.
In her extremely bullish case for the stock, which calls for much higher earnings growth than expected, the stock could hit $190. That's a more than 60% increase.
And at that price, Apple's market value would wind up topping the mythical $1 trillion level -- a first for a U.S. company.
Wells Fargo is eager to restore its reputation after the revelation that it created millions of bank and credit card accounts without telling customers. New accounts plunged last year after the scandal broke.
Wells Fargo plans to convert all its 13,000 ATMs to include the card-free option. Wells says it expects to be the first bank to do the full conversion.
"That's the game changer for us, that we'll be doing this to all of our ATMs," Wells Fargo spokeswoman Hilary O'Byrne told CNNMoney.
Bank of America (BAC) already has the feature at about half its ATMs and plans to convert them all. JPMorgan Chase (JPM) is testing the card-free option in California, Florida and Ohio.
Wes Dunn, senior vice president of sales for the ATM manufacturer Genmega Inc., said he was not sure card-free ATM transactions would prove more convenient than using a card.
"Getting out a piece of plastic and inserting it is not so terribly difficult, so outside of being trendy and cool, I fail to see the benefit to the cardholder themselves," he said.
Dunn said he could imagine the card-free system being handy for people who want to send cash to relatives. They could do that remotely, by relaying the eight-digit code and PIN over the phone.
 Wells Fargo notorious sales culture to get a makeover
Wells Fargo was forced to pay a $185 million fine because of the fake accounts scandal, and CEO John Stumpf resigned in October. The company is still under investigation by the Securities and Exchange Commission.
It has pledged to revamp its sales culture.
Soon after, his teacher friend requested a smaller version for her classroom. It became so popular among students she implemented a reward system for them to take turns. The response was eye opening for Ellegiers.

In response, Ellegiers launched -- along with two partners -- a standing desk manufacturing company called Jaswig. In 2014, the team invested $50,000 of their own money into the company and later launched a Kickstarter campaign that brought in $74,000.
Now, more than 110 Jaswig desks -- handmade by Amish woodworkers in Ohio --- are in over 25 schools nationwide.
 Using journalism to make kids better readers
Elementary school teacher Lynn Akers at Sierra Expeditionary Learning (K-8) School in Truckee, California is among the educators using Jaswig desks in the classroom. She bought 25 using a mix of competition prize money and grants. (The My First StandUp for kids is priced at $299; the adult version ranges from $449 to $499, depending on the width.)
"Most public schools can't afford to buy [the desks] on their own," she said.
But due the benefits of standing throughout the day, Akers considered it an investment.
"There's growing awareness among educators that children naturally learn through movement," she said. "If you restrict them to sitting, they interrupt you more and maybe ask to go to the bathroom a lot. They need to get their energy out."
Akers encourages her students to stand for at least 15 minutes during her class but gives the option of sitting, too. Some take advantage of the desk for the full-hour class.
Akers cited an example of a student who previously got up and walked around to do calculations in his head during a math test.
"It showed me he needed movement to problem solve," she said.
 Turning shipping containers into mobile tech labs for schools

"Now, [students] are taking ownership of their learning in a more focused way," said Akers.
Other teachers at the school have since added a mix of standing and sitting desks.
The concept hits close to home for Jaswig's cofounder, too: "I dealt with ADD [growing up] and had a difficult time sitting down for long periods," Ellegiers said. "[I realized] the option to stand could make a big difference to students with such challenges."

Although he recognizes the price tags for his standing desks are a bit steep, he hopes to bring down the cost for public schools soon.
"We donate when we can, but we also want to bring down the price by $100 in the spring," he said.
"It's time to fire King Richard," Senator Ben Sasse of Nebraska wrote in a statement.
Sasse and Senator Mike Lee of Utah argued that Cordray's tenure has been "disastrous" because the CFPB has "pursued costly regulatory policies" that have hurt community banks and credit unions.
The Republicans also believe the CFPB's single-director structure is "unconstitutional" -- a belief backed up by a federal court ruling in October.
However, it's not exactly clear if Trump will have the authority under current law to fire Cordray, whose term doesn't expire until July 2018. Dodd-Frank's strict language allows the president to remove the CFPB director only for cause.
"Cordray will probably sue to stay on. Let him sue. It will be an exciting battle," said John Berlau, a senior fellow at the libertarian Competitive Enterprise Institute, who also wants Trump to remove Cordray.
 Elizabeth Warren watchdog under siege
The CFPB declined to comment on the GOP letter. The CFPB recently said that Cordray "has no plans to step down" and noted he was confirmed in 2013 by a bipartisan group of 66 senators. That confirmation followed President Obama's controversial recess appointment of Cordray in 2012.
Steven Mnuchin, Trump's pick as treasury secretary, declined through a spokeswoman to comment on "any potential Treasury policies or actions" until after his confirmation hearing.
The back-and-forth over Cordray is the latest evidence that the CFPB, the consumer watchdog conceived by Warren, is under siege following the election.
Trump has promised to roll back regulation broadly, while Republicans have taken specific aim at the CFPB. GOP proposals have called for everything from wiping out the CFPB entirely to yanking its funding or replacing its director with a bipartisan board.
Defenders of the CFPB argue that efforts to defang the regulator are unwise.
Patricia McCoy, a Boston College Law School professor who oversaw CFPB mortgage policy in 2011, said the bureau has been "remarkably successful" under Cordray. She pointed to the CFPB's record-setting $100 million fine against Wells Fargo last September in the fake account fiasco.
Warren didn't respond to a request for comment on the GOP letter. The Massachusetts Senator previously told CNNMoney Republicans and big banks want to "strangle" the CFPB because it's proven to be a strong consumer watchdog.
Senator Sherrod Brown, the leading Democrat on the Senate Banking Committee, said in a statement that "firing Cordray and abolishing" the CFPB would "shatter" Trump's promise to hold Wall Street accountable. Brown praised the CFPB's ability to protect Americans who have been "ripped off" by financial institutions.
 Wall Street hates the Volcker Rule. Will Trump kill it?
But some Republicans feel the CFPB doesn't have enough oversight.
Lee and Sasse called the CFPB the "single-most egregious example" of a "headless fourth branch" of independent agencies unaccountable to the public or the president. They pointed to how the CFPB's decision-making authority rests on one person who is removable by the president only for cause.
The Senators cited the October federal court decision that ruled the CFPB is "unconstitutionally structured."
The CFPB has appealed the ruling in an effort to get it reversed.
"Trump has small business owners very excited," says Michael Block, chief strategist at Rhino Trading Partners, a firm in New York.
The sharp rise in small business optimism comes on the heels of consumer confidence hitting a 15-year high in late December. That increase was also attributed to high hopes for Trump's economic agenda.
 Consumer confidence hits 15-year high
Mom and pop business owners are very hopeful for the future. The percent of businesses expecting better business conditions in the next six months skyrocketed to 50% in December from 12% in November. Business owners also said they see higher wages, more expansion and more capital spending in the months ahead.
Trump is aiming to cut taxes, spend big on infrastructure projects, increase manufacturing jobs and repeal the Affordable Care Act, better known as Obamacare. Small business owners have complained for years that the costs associated with Obamacare hit them harder than big corporations.
Some experts caution that the small business index is a bit slanted. The respondents to NFIB's survey tend to be disproportionately Republican, says Jim O'Sullivan, chief U.S. economist at High Frequency Economics, a research firm.
The NFIB did endorse Trump's pick for labor secretary, Andrew Puzder, who liberals have derided for what they describe as a poor record of protecting workers' rights.
Business owners may be more optimistic than what reality could turn out to be. The high level of optimism reflects hopes of 5% economic growth, O'Sullivan says. The U.S. economy is projected to grow about 2% this year, according to the Federal Reserve. Even Trump is only pledging 4% growth.
"I do think that hopes have been probably raised too much here and there will probably be a little bit of disappointment," O'Sullivan noted.
It's the first time that Twin Hill has publicly addressed the controversy surrounding the new uniforms since complaints first emerged in the fall.
American (AAL) has consistently asserted the uniforms are safe to wear. The airline has received official complaints from around 450 staff, who have been permitted to wear the older uniform or receive reimbursement for purchasing their own off-the-rack replacements.
American Airlines flight attendants want new uniforms recalled
Testing done by the manufacturer and the airline, found "there are no restricted chemicals in the garments and that the chemicals that are present are well within acceptable standards for the clothing industry," Twin Hill said in its letter to the union.
American and Twin Hill have completed three rounds of testing, an airline spokesman said. But the union wants to have them tested by an independent organization.
The union did not respond to a request for comment.
An American Airlines spokesman declined to comment on the letter.
The flight attendants' union, which represents 26,000 staff at American, asked in December for the the new uniforms to be recalled.
Alaska Air Group (ALK), parent of Alaska Airlines, dropped Twin Hill as a uniform vendor after its own flight attendants complained about similar reactions after they were fielded in 2011. A 2012 lawsuit filed by 164 flight attendants claimed the uniforms caused their reactions. In October, Twin Hill won a court verdict that rejected those claims.
Twin Hill is a unit of Tailored Brands (TLRD), which also owns retailer Men's Wearhouse.
Though the Trump administration takes control late next week, current Health & Human Services officials laid out a plan to further boost sign ups through Jan. 31, which marks the end of open enrollment. The agency is airing television and radio ads, sending targeted emails to potential customers and reaching out via YouTube and other social media channels -- continuing outreach efforts that have been underway during this enrollment season.
The Internal Revenue Service is also contacting those who paid a penalty for remaining uninsured. The agency recently announced that about 6.5 million Americans had to pay the penalty, typically $330, in 2015. That's less than the roughly 8 million who were penalized in 2014.
High on the list of targets is younger Americans, who typically are healthier and have lower health care expenses. However, they still make up only 26% of those signing up on the federal exchange to date, the same as last year.
It's unclear whether the marketing efforts will continue under Trump, who has vowed to repeal President Obama's signature health reform law.
Still, Obama and his officials continue to make a case for Obamacare.
"In access, quality and affordability, the Affordable Care Act has helped us make real progress for families across the nation," said Health Secretary Sylvia Burwell on Monday.
The Obama administration expects a total of 13.8 million people to sign up for plans by the end of the enrollment period, which began Nov. 1. However, it's common for people to drop their policies during the course of the year because they find coverage elsewhere, either through a job or a spouse. So, an average of 11.4 million people are expected to be in Obamacare policies during 2017.
Consumers aren't officially enrolled until they pay their first month's premium.
 GOP worried about Obamacare plan
Even before the election, there were concerns that prospective enrollees would be deterred by price hikes -- the average premium for the benchmark silver plan soared 22% for 2017 -- and the fact that some insurers had pulled out of the exchanges.
Most enrollees, however, are shielded from those increases by federal subsidies. Some 82% of people who have signed up for 2017 plans are eligible for subsidies, according to Health & Human Services Department officials. The average subsidy for those enrolling on the federal exchange is $4,600 a year.
Consumers are also shopping around for coverage. Some 56% of returning customers actively selected plan, up from 51% a year ago. Those who opt not to shop are automatically re-enrolled in their existing policy.
With that in mind, it may be tough for stocks to enjoy nearly as explosive a rally under Trump in the next four (or eight) years as it has during Obama's tenure.
The Dow has gone up more than 140% since Obama's inauguration in January 2009.
If you look at how the Dow has done since it hit its low point on March 6, 2009, it's up 210%.
If the Dow goes up 140% during the next eight years (yes, I am going to hypothetically assume that Trump winds up a two-term president for the purposes of this story) then it would be trading around 47,800.
And if it goes up 210%? The Dow would be at about 61,500.
61,500. That seems unimaginable, doesn't it? Heck, 47,800 seems (say like Wallace Shawn in "The Princess Bride") inconceivable!
But how did the Dow go from just around 6,450 at its low point eight years ago to the precipice of 20,000 today? Obama does deserve some, albeit not all, of the credit.
The $787 billion economic stimulus package approved by Congress just a month after Obama became president helped get the economy (and market) back on track.
However, the bank bailout (love it or hate it) that was put into place during the last few months of the George W. Bush administration also is largely responsible for stabilizing large banks, one of the primary culprits of the 2008 collapse.
Dow components JPMorgan Chase (JPM) and Goldman Sachs (GS) have skyrocketed since the bailout and are not far from their record highs.
Emergency programs put into place by the Federal Reserve in 2008 and early 2009 -- and the maintaining of historically low interest rates throughout Obama's tenure -- also played a role in stabilizing the markets.
The dramatic rise of several big technology stocks in the past eight years has also helped propel the market higher. That may have little to do with Obama.
Apple's (AAPL, Tech30) shares have surged more than 415% since he took office. Amazon's (AMZN, Tech30) are up an astonishing 900%.
And Facebook (FB, Tech30), which went public during the last few months of Obama's first term in 2012, is up 230% from its offering price.
Does Obama deserve credit for the genius of the late Steve Jobs, Jeff Bezos and Mark Zuckerberg? Not really.
All this goes to show that a President is partly (but not entirely) responsible for how well stocks do during their term. It's also worth noting that the market is not the same thing as the economy.
The market may have set records over the past eight years, but the pace of the economic recovery remains frustratingly slow for many Americans -- and that helped fuel Trump's victory over Hillary Clinton.
But if earnings keep humming along under Trump and economic growth picks up thanks to plans to boost infrastructure spending and other stimulus, then maybe the Dow will be above 45,000 (or even 60,000) by the time he's leaving the White House.
After all, consider that the Dow went up more than 130% during Ronald Reagan's two terms.
And it rose more than 225% during Bill Clinton's eight years in office.
Economic growth was higher during the Reagan and Clinton years than it has been under Obama.
Of course, there is another recent two-term president that didn't enjoy a big rally.
Stocks plunged under George W. Bush -- in large part due to the aftermath of the 9/11 attacks and the Great Recession.
But if GDP growth accelerates under Trump, then the market could wind up climbing, just as it did for many of his predecessors.
A stronger economy should be good news for construction giant (and Dow component) Caterpillar (CAT) -- which has already popped on stimulus hopes.
It would also benefit many other cyclical Dow companies like retailers Walmart (WMT) and Home Depot (HD) and other brand name consumer firms such as Coca-Cola (KO) and Disney (DIS).
So scoff if you want at the notion that the Dow could hit gaudy targets like 45,000 or 60,000 within the next few years.
But just remember that it seemed equally laughable for the Dow to pass round number milestones like 2,000, 10,000 and 15,000 under Reagan, Clinton and Obama.
Yet they did.
Volkswagen leaders in Mexico aren't blinking yet.
"We have to wait and see," says Thomas Karig, VW's director of corporate relations. "When we have more precise proposals on the table [from Trump], then we can talk about the impact."

 Trump threatens GM to Make in U.S. or pay tax
It's a big bet: This move aims to drive down the price tag of the Tiguan in the United States, where the SUV market is booming. Volkswagen launched the new Tiguan on Monday at the Detroit Auto Show.
This Volkswagen factory produces cars for other parts of the world, but exports roughly half of its cars to the United States. Opened in 1967, the sprawling 740-acre plant in the state of Puebla has grown into VW's largest outside of Germany. The factory also produces others cars, including the Golf, the Beetle (which are now made exclusively in Mexico) and the Jetta.
Karig talks proudly about the high level of automation at the plant, where state of the art technology attaches the vehicle's body and chassis. This factory alone employs 14,000 workers, or the vast majority of the company's 14,600 employees in Mexico. By comparison, Volkswagen employs 7,000 in the United States.
An estimated 40,000 more people work for VW's suppliers, making the factory a powerhouse for the local economy.

 Ford cancels Mexico plant. Will create 700 U.S. jobs instead
In the nearby town of Cuautlancingo, Trump's threats resonate. Besides tariffs, the president-elect has threatened to make Mexico pay for a wall on the border and to withdraw from NAFTA, the free trade deal between the U.S., Mexico and Canada. Residents aren't afraid of speaking out about how they feel about Trump.
"He's a man who is arrogant and racist," says Francisco Sanchez, who worked in the factory for 28 years before recently retiring.
Workers at the factory are worried too. Daniel, who requested his last name not be published, has worked for VW for 18 years.

 GM, Chrysler have more workers in Mexico than Ford
"There's uncertainty and fear," he says, on his way out of the factory at the end of his shift. "But we will have to wait and see what he does."
Anybody who follows the Mexican car production business knows that there's much to fear from Trump's threats. Bill Rinna, senior manager at researcher LMC Automotive, worries about the threat of 35% tariffs.
"It is pretty clear now that all automakers with investments planned for Mexico are on watch," says Rinna, senior manager of North American Forecasts at LMC Automotive.
Amid all the uncertainty, Volkswagen is pressing on with no plans to shift jobs or production to the United States.
Karig emphasized that it's business as usual and that Trump hasn't triggered any changes at Volkswagen.
"No." he says firmly. "Nothing."
2. Pound slumps: The British pound dropped to around $1.21 as traders worry about prospects for post-Brexit Britain.
The falling pound -- down about 19% versus the dollar since the Brexit referendum -- has helped boost the FTSE 100 index in London. It hit an all-time high in early Tuesday trading.
Before the Bell newsletter: Key market news. In your inbox. Subscribe now!
3. Stocks to watch -- Yahoo, Tesco: Shares in Yahoo (YHOO, Tech30) could be on the move Tuesday after the company announced that CEO Marissa Mayer will step down from Yahoo's board of directors if its sale to Verizon goes through.
Shares in British grocery chain Tesco (TSCDY) are surging in London after the company announced plans to cut about 1,000 jobs and close two distribution centers. It plans to increase hiring at other distribution centers.
4. Global market overview: Global stock markets have been rallying for weeks but now look rather uninspired.
U.S. stock futures are holding steady.
European markets are mostly dipping in early trading. Asian markets ended the day with mixed results.
This comes after the Nasdaq hit an all-time high on Monday, while the Dow Jones industrial average and S&P 500 each slipped 0.4%.
Download CNN MoneyStream for up-to-the-minute market data and news
5. Coming this week: Tuesday - Obama delivers farewell address  Wednesday - Trump scheduled to give press conference; Tillerson confirmation hearing Thursday - Delta (DAL) earnings  Friday - Bank of America (BAC), JPMorgan Chase (JPM) and Wells Fargo (WFC) report earnings
The reason: Bank of America (BAC) underreported a key risk metric by tens of billions of dollars during the final three quarters of 2013 and all of 2014, the lawsuit said. The FDIC said that allowed BofA to appear less risky than it really was -- and avoid paying the FDIC an average of $77 million each quarter into the agency's deposit insurance fund.
The FDIC insures customers' deposits up to $250,000 in case a bank collapses. That's why even though hundreds of banks went belly up during the 2008 crisis, Americans didn't lose money that was kept in FDIC-insured accounts.
Banks of all sizes must pay into the insurance fund, which currently has nearly $81 billion.
The FDIC said this is the first time it has filed suit against a bank to recover insurance fees in more than two decades.
 Wall Street hates the Volcker Rule. Will Trump kill it?
The insurance premiums are calculated based on the risk level of banks. Not only do the banks have to spell out their own risk exposure, but also those of their business partners.
A 2014 FDIC rule change requires big banks to add up their total exposure to business partners by their parent company rather than by individual entity. For instance, Goldman Sachs has to break out its total exposure to all of Facebook (FB, Tech30) instead of listing individual subsidiaries like Instagram and WhatsApp.
The thinking is that banks with more concentrated "counterparty" exposure are at more risk of getting into financial trouble.
The FDIC said Bank of America failed to divulge this risk. The lawsuit said Bank of America was the only bank, out of the nine that are required to do this, that failed to report this kind of exposure.
Bank of America, however, disputes the FDIC claims. It said in a statement there is a "technical disagreement" over the 2014 rule change but that it believes it's in compliance.
"We look forward to the court's review," the bank said.
 Wells Fargo giving raise to 25,000 workers
Eugene Scalia, a lawyer from Gibson Dunn who represents Bank of America, questioned how the FDIC could have been unaware of the bank's approach to this issue.
The FDIC "received reports from the bank each quarter which made crystal clear what approach the bank was taking," Scalia said.
Bank of America and the FDIC had been in talks about the issue. "They agreed to provide us additional information, but recently they indicated that they felt they must file suit by mid-January," he said.
It's unclear if the FDIC wanted to file the lawsuit before the arrival of President-elect Donald Trump, who has promised to dial back regulation, including on banks.
A person familiar with the FDIC's thinking said the lawsuit was triggered by a statute of limitations issue, not a change in administration.
So, if all things remain the same and car imports are taken away, the trade deficit with Mexico would disappear.
"Cars are by far the largest export from Mexico to the U.S. -- without them, the [Mexican] trade surplus with the U.S. vanishes," says Neil Shearing, chief emerging markets economist at Capital Economics, a research firm.
Indeed, cars beat the next top four import categories -- electronic parts, food, computers and TVs -- by a mile. Even if you add the value of those four categories together, they still fall short of the value of all the cars brought across the border, according to figures compiled by Capital Economics. Their value would total a little over $71 billion.
No wonder, Donald Trump has targeted automakers.
"If you're going to make a fuss about something, you want to make a fuss about something that's going to make a difference," says Chris Rogers, research analyst at Panjiva, a global trade research firm.
 BMW 'absolutely' committed to new factory in Mexico
Trump has warned that car companies like Toyota (TM) and GM (GM) will face a "big border tax" if they don't move jobs and production back to the U.S. from Mexico.
During his campaign, Trump often compared America's trade deficit to a company losing money.
"We're losing a tremendous amount of money, according to many stats, $800 billion a year on trade," Trump told the New York Times during his campaign.
Some experts disagree with Trump's portrayal of the U.S. trade deficit in goods.
 Mexico's Trump 'contingency plan' isn't working
"A nation's trade balance is nothing like a firm's bottom line," Douglas Irwin, a trade expert at Dartmouth and former Reagan administration official, wrote in Foreign Affairs magazine. "Whereas a company cannot lose money indefinitely, a country...can run a trade deficit indefinitely without compromising its well-being."
Irwin points out that Australia has had a trade deficit for decades and it hasn't had an economic recession for about 25 years. Conversely, Japan often runs a trade surplus and its economy has stagnated for decades.
So, would eliminating the trade deficit with Mexico be good for the U.S. economy? In short term, possibly yes. In the long term, very likely no.
That's based on a new report released by Morgan Stanley (MS)'s economics team. They estimated that if Trump uses tariffs of 20% or 45%, U.S. economic growth would get a boost in the first year. That's because in the economic model for growth, the trade deficit weighs down growth. A narrower deficit would spark short-term growth.
But then the pain would come. Morgan Stanley's economists forecast U.S. economic growth slumping long-term if the trade barriers remain as U.S. exporters would lose out, consumer prices would rise and businesses would cut back investments.
He said that the current uncertainty would make it "incredibly imprudent" for Chrysler to invest any more in Mexico at this time. He also added that steep tariffs could mean that Fiat Chrysler pulls back from Mexico entirely.
"It's possible if tariffs are imposed, if they're sufficiently large, we'd have to withdraw. It is quite possible," he said. "Right now they [rules] are all on the table. We'll wait."
 Fiat Chrysler to put $1 billion into U.S. jobs and revive Jeep
Last week Ford (F) announced it was scrapping plans for a $1.6 billion plant in Mexico and instead investing $700 million in a Michigan plant, a move that will create 700 jobs there.
On Sunday, Fiat Chrysler announced its own $1 billion investment in two plants in Michigan and Ohio, creating 2,000 jobs.
Trump tweeted about the move, saying "It's finally happening." But Marchionne said Monday that the strategy had nothing to do with Trump or his trade policies.
Indeed, Fiat's investment plans were part of a labor deal Fiat Chrysler reached with the United Auto Workers union in 2015. It calls for the company to invest a total of $5.3 billion in U.S. plants.
"I wish I could give him [Trump] credit for this," the CEO told reporters Monday afternoon. "But the thinking was in place beforehand."
And he said he isn't concerned about Trump's Twitter attacks Fiat Chrysler. "This is new territory for most of us. None of us have had a tweeting president before," he said.
The CEO added at a press conference later Monday that he'll never get into a Twitter war with the president-elect.
"If I ever start tweeting, shoot me," Marchionne told reporters. He doesn't even have a Twitter account.
Marchionne stressed that the decision made economic sense for the company.
"We're not going to do anything about President-elect Trump," he said. "We'll just respond to relevant policies."
 Best loved new cars of 2016
The CEO said he'd like to talk about trade policy with Trump directly. Specifically, he would urge that any tariff imposed on Mexican imports would grandfather in plants that are already in place. Marchionne said that would discourage new investment in Mexico without punishing U.S. companies for previous investments there.
He said he doesn't even know whether Fiat Chrysler's Canadian plants would be subject to the same tariffs as those in Mexico, though he hopes that won't be the case.
"To the best of my knowledge there have been no tweets on Canadian production of cars," Marchionne quipped.
And he cautioned that if new U.S. policies lead to a global trade war, it will be bad for all U.S. workers, including those at auto plants.
Tariffs on imports from Mexico and Canada also would be "lethal" for Fiat Chrysler's plants in those countries, since they depend on selling into the U.S. market. But they wouldn't close immediately.
"You can't do it overnight. For us it would be impossible," he said. "You can't just pick up all your toys and go home."
Fiat Chrysler  (FCAU)has seven Mexican plants that employ about 11,500 workers. The plants primarily serve the U.S. market, but also build vehicles for Europe, South America and Australia. They build the Fiat 500, Dodge Journey, the Ram ProMaster van and the Ram 1500-3500 pickups. The new Jeep Compass will also be built in Mexico.
The rule was named after legendary Federal Reserve chairman Paul Volcker, who came up with the idea and fought hard to include it in Dodd-Frank.
But recently, the push to defang the Volcker Rule received support from an unlikely source: the Federal Reserve itself, which is also the chief regulator of the big banks.
Staffers at the Fed studied whether it was easy to buy and sell bonds during times of stress, a critical feature for the smooth functioning of financial markets, known as liquidity. The December 22 research paper found that the 2015 implementation of the Volcker Rule had a harmful effect on corporate bond liquidity.
Firms subject to the Volcker Rule become "less willing to provide liquidity during stress times," the paper concluded.
It's a critical finding, especially considering the 2008 financial crisis was worsened by a liquidity crunch.
"That Fed report really does give ammunition to opponents of the Volcker Rule," said Bloomberg Intelligence financial policy analyst Nathan Dean.
 Elizabeth Warren watchdog under siege
Deregulation hopes lift bank stocks
While the Fed research was conducted by staffers, policymakers don't often oppose their own staff findings.
"This is the regulator dropping bread crumbs to Congress to act," said Thomas Michaud, CEO of Keefe, Bruyette & Woods, an investment bank that specializes in financial services.
Michaud said the 2008 meltdown has resulted in too much "heavy regulation" and "penalties" for banks.
"All you need is to move it into neutral to have a positive effect. It's a lot like my golf game -- It just needs to be less bad," he said.
Investors are betting that's exactly what will happen. Hopes of deregulation, in addition higher interest rates and tax cuts, have sent bank stocks skyrocketing since Donald Trump's victory.
Morgan Stanley (MS) stock has surged 26% since the election, while Goldman Sachs's (GS) huge rally accounts for nearly one-quarter of the Dow's post-election gains. These are just two of the big banks that would benefit from Congress defanging the Volcker Rule.
 Big banks counting on love from Trump and Fed
Volcker backers: Don't forget Bear Stearns
Defenders of financial reform warn against the Volcker Rule disappearing.
"Hedge fund-like gambling should not be permitted in the banking space," said Marcus Stanley, policy director at Americans for Financial Reform, a nonprofit coalition pushing for Wall Street accountability.
He pointed to the infamous Bear Stearns hedge fund division that imploded in 2007 after making bad bets on real estate. The failure triggered a loss of confidence and heavy losses for Bear Stearns. Less than a year, later Bear was the first Wall Street firm to collapse during the financial crisis.
"We are very concerned about the repeal or dialing back of the Volcker Rule," said Stanley.
GOP blueprint calls for Volcker Rule repeal
If the Volcker Rule does get watered down, it would likely be part of a broader rewriting of Dodd-Frank.
The Financial Choice Act, a key bill championed by House Financial Services Chairman Jeb Hensarling, calls for repealing the Volcker Rule entirely.
Analysts say the bill wouldn't get through Congress as currently written, but it serves as a key blueprint for efforts to rewrite Dodd-Frank.
Its success could hinge on whether Democrats are willing to negotiate. Elizabeth Warren and other champions of Wall Street reform could impede such a bill by choosing to filibuster.
Liberal groups are already signaling they will fight to keep the Volcker Rule.
The Progressive Change Campaign Committee told CNNMoney that overturning the rule would be "blatant proof that Trump favors corporate profits at the expense of American working families."
 Trump wants to unshackle Main Street banks
Trump could choose not to enforce Volcker Rule
Of course, big banks wouldn't object to getting rid of the Volcker Rule.
"We're not specifically pushing for the elimination of it, although it's fine if that happens," Francis Creighton, head of Wall Street lobbying group Financial Services Roundtable, told CNNMoney.
Creighton complained that the Volcker Rule has led to "massive costs inside financial institutions that make it harder to serve customers."
He said concerns about banks betting with their own money -- a practice known as proprietary trading -- have been resolved by "punishing" capital rules that make these types of trades unattractive.
"Prop trading is gone. We're not looking for it to come back," Creighton said.
Wells Fargo  (WFC)CEO Tim Sloan specifically cited the Volcker Rule as one of many parts of financial regulation he wants Trump to dial back.
"You kind of scratch your head and say, 'Is there really a lot of added benefit to that?" Sloan said last month.
Even if Congress doesn't kill Dodd Frank, Trump could undermine it by picking regulators who choose not to enforce it.
"You could unravel the Volcker Rule by just downgrading enforcement of it," said Stanley.
According to EY, women comprise only a quarter of the auto industry workforce. But they influence almost 80% of decisions to buy a car, according to market research firm Frost & Sullivan.
"In a lot of respects it's the women that are making the decisions about the vehicles," McGovern said. "We've got to get their inputs."
He said women have different priorities to men when purchasing cars, which may be underrepresented when cars are designed.
Olivia Walker, principle consultant for Frost & Sullivan, said that interior design was the biggest area of dissatisfaction among female car buyers.
She said her research found most women were unhappy with visibility, entertainment controls and storage space, adding that "it just makes sense" to employ women who understand the behavior of consumers.
That's why McGovern wants more women in the industry. "I'm doing as much as I can to encourage female designers in our business," he said.
Functionality vs design
McGovern heads a team of 500, who work on new models for the Land Rover brand, which is owned by Jaguar Land Rover, itself a subsidiary of India's Tata Motors.
While cars need to be functional, McGovern says their design also needs to have an emotional impact.
"When somebody gets into one of our cars I want them to feel special," McGovern said. "I want them to have that sense of elevation -- they get in, they start it up and they feel good."
His biggest hit has been the Range Rover Evoque -- half a million have been sold since its launch in 2011, making it the best selling model in Land Rover's history.
But design wasn't McGovern's first love -- originally, he wanted to become a painter. "But then I realized there's not much money in painting until you're dead," he joked.
Now, his ultimate goal is to increase the small British brand's market share and continue to innovate.
"Part of my job is to look at the landscape," he said. "What are the opportunities to create things that don't exist at the moment?"
At issue is a massive industrial zone near the southern city of Hambantota that aims to attract $5 billion in investment from Chinese firms over the next five years.
China's Ambassador to Sri Lanka Yi Xianliang said at Saturday's launch event that more than 50 Chinese investors are exploring projects in the industrial zone, which is situated near a major port financed by Chinese banks.
"No negative force can stop the cooperation between China and Sri Lanka, and no one can stop the strong friendship between our two peoples," Yi said according to Chinese state-run media.
Local residents, however, fear that they could lose their land because of the project.
 Did China profit from Sri Lanka deals?
China has been pouring money into the South Asian nation as part of its "One Belt One Road" plan, which seeks to link countries from as far away as East Africa to Beijing through trade.
In Sri Lanka, Chinese firms have won lucrative contracts to build roads, bridges and other large projects. Some of the initiatives have been dogged by allegations of corruption under the country's previous government.
-- Iqbal Athas contributed to this report.
Like the football teams, Nike stock is off to a hot start this year.
It wasn't so great last year -- Nike's (NKE) stock was the biggest Dow dog and one of only three in the index to fall in 2016, plunging nearly 20%. (Coca-Cola (KO) and Disney (DIS) were the other laggards.)
Concerns about sluggish demand in the United States and increased competition from Adidas (ADDDF) and Under Armour (UA) weighed on Nike.
 Clemson is covered -- win or lose
Nike is already up about 5% after reporting better-than-expected earnings at the end of last month.
Investors are particularly excited about Nike's growth in China. It's helping offset some of the weakness in its home market. Nike reported sales growth of 17% in China during its most recent quarter.
The strength in China is one key reason why analysts are expecting that Nike's overall earnings will grow about 12% a year, on average, for the next few years.
Nike kicked off 2017 with good endorsement news as well, announcing it had signed the world's top-ranked male golfer, Jason Day, to a shoes and apparel deal. (Nike exited the golf club and equipment business in August though.)
 Alabama's Crimson Tide is rolling in green
Signing Day might help alleviate some concerns about the fact that both Adidas and Under Armour have also been attracting top endorsers over the past few years.
Golf star Jordan Spieth and basketball's Steph Curry are in Under Armour's camp. Adidas has NBA star (and bearded wonder) James Harden as well as National League MVP Kris Bryant of the World Series winner Chicago Cubs.
But Nike still has arguably the two world's most marketable sports stars on the planet on its roster -- LeBron James of the reigning NBA champion Cleveland Cavaliers and some former minor league baseball player named Michael Jordan. Ha!
In fact, Jordan -- despite not playing professional hoops since 2003 (he's now the owner of the NBA's Charlotte Hornets) -- is still a bigger salesman for sneakers than LeBron.
 Ticket prices soar for Alabama-Clemson championship game
Nike mentioned Jordan 16 times during its last earnings conference call. LeBron got only four references.
So if Nike can continue to sell tons of Jordan and LeBron sneakers and T-shirts to kids in China (as well as Chicago, Charlotte and Cleveland) then the stock's winning streak in 2017 may only just be beginning.
It doesn't hurt that the 'Bama-Clemson championship is essentially a 3-hour ad for Nike too. Swoosh!
He is also accused of conspiring to violate the Clean Air Act. Schmidt could not immediately be reached for comment.
"Volkswagen continues to cooperate with the Department of Justice as we work to resolve remaining matters in the United States," Volkswagen told CNNMoney, without identifying the suspect. It declined to comment further.
The scandal erupted in 2014, when a group of scientists at West Virginia University discovered that Volkswagen (VLKAF) was using software in its diesel cars to cheat on clean-air tests. The software detected when a car was being tested and made the engines run differently to appear cleaner.
 Volkswagen agrees to pay $14.7 billion to settle emissions scandal
In September 2015, VW admitted to rigging half a million cars in the U.S., and 11 million around the world, to get around regulations. VW agreed to pay $14.7 billion to settle the scandal, mostly to owners of cars to have them fixed or buy them back.
Volkswagen announced in November 2016 that it would cut 30,000 jobs because of huge bills related to the scandal. Most of the job cuts, 23,000, will be in its home country of Germany. The company employs 610,000 people around the world.
Schmidt appeared before Parliament in London in January 2016. He identified himself as a Volkswagen engineer in Germany, denied that software in the cars contained a "defeat device" and insisted that the company complied with European law.
--CNNMoney's Peter Valdes-Dapena contributed to this report.
Although ingredients such as grain and vegetables may suggest a healthier alternative, its caloric content is the same as its standard potato-based chips.
"We're not trying to convey that the new crisps are better for you," Kurt Simon, senior director of marketing with Pringles' parent company Kellogg (K), told CNNMoney.
 M&M's gets trendy new caramel filling
"We identified a target segment of 'bold explorers' who are eager to try something different in flavors and unique textures," he added. "It's why Kettle potato chips are doing well."
The Loud crisps are packaged in Pringles' identifiable cylindrical containers -- with some changes. Each holder is a bit smaller than the original potato chip container but houses the same amount. The labels are black and yellow.
"The name Loud is intended to convey the bold texture and flavors of the crisps," said Simon. "With the colors, we want 'Loud' to standout on the shelf."
 Robot pizza place introduces high-tech delivery trucks
This isn't the first time Pringles has experimented with a potato-free chip in its nearly 50-year history. The brand launched corn-based tortilla chips in 2012, featuring the same curved shape as its potato chips. However, those were discontinued last year.
The move is the company's latest attempt to capture a bigger share of the growing salty snacks market. It comes almost two years after continuous market research to identify differentiated snack opportunities.
The line (priced at $1.69 a can) hits stores starting mid-January.
Pence's comments, however, left legal and health care experts -- as well as some Congressional staffers working on Obamacare's repeal and replacement -- scratching their heads as to what exactly Trump plans to do. A request to the Trump transition team for comment went unanswered.
Republicans must be careful in that the Dems own the failed ObamaCare disaster, with its poor coverage and massive premium increases......
It's unclear from Pence's comments whether Trump plans to take executive action or, more authoritatively, issue executive orders. The vice president-elect used both terms at a GOP press conference last Wednesday, noting that the White House staff is currently working on "a series of executive orders that will enable that orderly transition to take place even as the Congress appropriately debates alternatives."
While Trump and Congressional Republicans have repeatedly vowed to swiftly end President Obama's health care reform, their remarks have become more tempered since they won control of the White House in November. Not only are they concerned about the political fallout of immediately kicking 20 million people off their health insurance, they don't have a detailed replacement plan in hand.
So it doesn't seem likely that Trump will try to upend Obamacare as soon as he takes office on January 20. Regardless, a president doesn't have the power to summarily overturn a law or nullify a regulation. For instance, he could not immediately dismantle the federal exchange, healthcare.gov, or stop paying premium subsidies -- at least not without being sued, experts said. Only Congress writes laws, and altering a regulation requires an agency to publish the proposed changes, allow the public to comment and then write the final rule, a process which usually takes two years, said David Super, a law professor at Georgetown University Law Center.
 Americans split over Trump's ability to fix health care
But presidents can issue executive orders -- which are signed and have the force of law -- to direct federal agencies and officials on how to execute laws and policies. Obama issued only one executive order concerning the Affordable Care Act, said Tim Jost, a health law professor at Washington and Lee University School of Law. It directed several agencies to establish a mechanism to ensure that federal money flowing through Obamacare -- such as the subsidies and community health centers funding -- would not be used for abortions, consistent with federal statute.
Executive actions are more informal and broad. They could be defined as any action that is typically relating to policy matters that the president or his subordinates in the executive branch, Super said.
Here's what Trump might do:
Stop defending lawsuits: Trump could take action on several court cases right away.
Here's one example: He could end the administration's defense of a case involving cost-sharing subsidies that insurers must provide for low-income enrollees. House Republicans sued the Obama administration, arguing they never appropriated the funds to reimburse insurers for lowering the deductibles and co-payments of these policyholders.
 Federal appeals court puts Obamacare lawsuit on hold
However, if Trump dropped the administration's defense, it would end the reimbursements to insurers. That would wreak havoc in the individual market. Many insurers depend on these cost-sharing payments -- without them, they might leave the market, which could lead to fewer choices and higher premiums for consumers. Such a move would be at odds with the "orderly transition" Pence stressed as important to the incoming president.
There are other legal battles with less dire consequences -- including a group of nuns fighting Obamacare's mandate that employers and health insurers on the exchanges provide free contraceptives -- where Trump also could opt not to defend the law. (There is an exemption for certain religious employers.)
Revise guidance: The President-elect could direct federal agencies -- such as the Department of Health & Human Services and the Internal Revenue Service -- to revise the guidance they've issued to carry out Affordable Care Act regulations so they are more in line with Republican ideals.
Take the individual mandate, which requires most Americans to be insured or pay a penalty unless they can prove a financial hardship. Since Congressional Republicans want to do away with the mandate, Trump could try to loosen the criteria for qualifying for a hardship exemption. That way fewer people would have to pay the penalty, which would be in line with Republicans' charge that Americans need relief from Obamacare's exorbitant costs.
Change enforcement priorities: Another action Trump could take would be to signal that his administration will not impose penalties for certain infractions of Obamacare provisions.
One example: Employers who provide contributions to workers to buy their own individual health insurance can be slapped with a penalty of $100 per day, per person. Trump could suggest to his new IRS commissioner that enforcing the rule is counterproductive and a waste of resources, especially when Congress plans to replace Obamacare.
 Repealing Obamacare affects everyone
"You can't rewrite the law, but there are a lot of gray areas where you can change the emphasis," said Tom Miller, resident fellow at the American Enterprise Institute. "Where Obama stretched the law to be tighter and more all-encompassing, Trump will make it more flexible and less rigorous."
Increase flexibility and issue more administrative fixes: Following Trump's lead, the Health & Human Services Department could be more flexible in granting waivers. So states that want to institute additional rules -- such as work requirements -- in their Medicaid expansion programs would likely get the go-ahead, whereas they were denied permission under the Obama administration.
Obama has also used executive power to make changes to the law. One example: In November 2013, he announced "an administrative fix" to address the outcry over insurers canceling people's pre-Obamacare plans just as the exchanges initial open enrollment began. He opened the door for enrollees to temporarily keep their pre-Obamacare plans by signaling to insurers that they could renew these policies if state insurance commissioners agreed. The move raised questions, but ultimately wasn't successfully challenged.
"The executive branch can do a lot, until someone tries to stop them through the legal system," said Larry Levitt, senior vice president at the Kaiser Family Foundation.
 How the tables are turning on Obamacare
Tinkering with Obamacare, however, could be at odds with Pence's stated interest in a smooth transition, experts said. Many of the law's provisions are intertwined, so changing one might have a more widespread effect.
Relaxing the hardship exemption, for example, may lead to fewer healthy people enrolling, which could cause insurers to raise their premiums.
"There's a delicate balance," said Sabrina Corlette, research professor at Georgetown's Center on Health Insurance Reforms. "Every action will have a consequence."
Or, on the flip side, Trump could take actions that seek to stabilize the market so insurers don't drop out before Republicans can put a replacement plan into effect. These might include bolstering Obamacare's risk program that aims to protect insurers with a disproportionate share of high-cost, sick enrollees or making it harder for Americans to sign up for coverage outside the open enrollment period.
It's also possible that the incoming administration might not yet have specific executive actions in mind, especially since GOP lawmakers remain very divided about what a replacement plan will look like.
I just spoke to @realDonaldTrump and he fully supports my plan to replace Obamacare the same day we repeal it. The time to act is now.
Pence's comments may have been more political in nature -- serving to put Congress on notice that Trump wants a repeal and replace deal done soon, Miller said. The President-elect may also want to calm fears that he's looking to dismantle Obamacare immediately regardless of whether it leaves millions of enrollees uninsured. Or he may want to let his base know that he's in charge.
"He may want to force the issue or to diffuse an issue or just claim control...as long as he doesn't get the blame," Miller said.
But getting by in America was a struggle until a strange twist of fate occurred. An explosion in the boiler room of the family's apartment building destroyed their home.
"That was the scariest day, but now when I look back I feel like it was the best thing that happened to my family and it changed the course of our whole lives," Eldeeb said.
The family moved into a homeless shelter for a year and had to rely on food stamps. For the first time since arriving in the U.S., the family didn't have to struggle to pay for rent or food.
Eldeeb was able to quit his job and focus on his education. He soon discovered an interest in computer science that would eventually lead him to obtain a computer science degree from Columbia University and to start his own company, SmartSpot, which uses interactive mirrors that help athletes train without a human trainer.
Eldeeb and his incredible rise out of poverty was recently honored with the Robin Hood Foundation's Heroes Award.
Here is his American Success Story.
What was life like when you moved to the U.S.?
When my mom, my dad, my sister, me and my baby brother arrived in Queens there was no plan.
My dad had a master's degree in accounting, but everyone told him it wouldn't help here. Other Egyptians said he could either work in a pizza restaurant or as a taxi driver. He knew he needed a job right away so he worked at a pizza place.
 The steep cost of underemploying highly skilled immigrants
After a week or two, we found a one bedroom apartment. Rent was around $1,000 a month, which was almost 70% of what he was making. My mom couldn't work because she had to take care of my little brother who had a medical condition called Ectodermal Dysplasia.
Because my brother doesn't have any sweat glands [as a result of the condition], we had an air conditioner always running and our electricity bill was very high. We barely had enough money. Plus, the landlords would find out that there were too many people in a one bedroom apartment, so we would get evicted all the time. I think we were evicted almost every year.
When I was 11, I decided I wanted to help. The only job I knew was at the pizza restaurant with my dad and so I worked there doing anything I could. My salary was $20 off the books for a 12-hour day.
That went on for years.
How were you able to stop working and focus on your education?
The boiler in our apartment building exploded during a repair. My mom and little brother were inside when it happened, but ran out to safety. A second explosion took down the whole building.
We were moved into a homeless shelter for a year. It felt like the best thing ever. For the first time, we didn't have to worry about getting evicted and we had food stamps.
My dad trained for and became a special education teacher.
 Teacher returns to his Bronx high school to help kids succeed
I had been working at the pizza shop through middle school and I was supposed to start the ninth grade at the time. That year, I went to a public library next to the shelter in Harlem. One of the librarians asked me why I wasn't in school. She created a whole curriculum for me. For a year, I basically did every single lesson on the Khan Academy website, from pre-algebra until I finished algebra.
A year later, we moved to the Queensbridge projects. It was the first time we lived in a place with more than one bedroom. Al-Madinah, a local private Islamic high school, tested me and let me attend tenth grade on a full scholarship. The school had a special program for early graduation and I went to school, after school and on weekends.
I graduated in the eleventh grade.
I went to Queens College and participated in a computer science program sponsored by the Robin Hood Foundation called Coalition for Queens. I applied to Columbia University and finished the computer science program there.
Two years ago, I moved to San Francisco to work on my startup, SmartSpot.
The idea for it came while I was studying at Columbia. I like to work out and I was a personal trainer. One of the people that I trained is currently my co-founder.
We built these smart mirrors for gyms. You work out in front of them and they give you live corrections on form, like a personal trainer, without the cost. We applied to Y-Combinator, one of the top start-up incubators in the world, and finished the program in January of 2015. By the end of May 2015 we raised $1.5 million.
What was one of your biggest hurdles?
I didn't think I spoke English well enough to succeed in school. At the library, I was able to do the Khan Academy work and I could go at my own pace and rewind the parts that I didn't understand.
Trying to convince myself that I could actually learn, especially in English. Believing that I had a fighting chance was very hard.
What helps you to achieve your goals?
Everyone is worried about losing their stability and there are so many things they don't do.
I'm always thinking, "what's the worst case?" To me, the worst case, other than death, has pretty much already happened and it makes me feel limitless.
How do you define success?
It's to be able to do what I truly want and not what circumstances have placed me in. That's what, thankfully, I've been given the chance to do.
 Trump immigration plan could cost the U.S. billions
As a Muslim immigrant, are you concerned at all about Donald Trump's upcoming presidency?
I worry a lot about the future. He wants to ban people like me from coming here. I would have never had a chance to come here. I worry about leaving and seeing the rest of my family. I might not be allowed to come back in.
Immigrants come to work really hard. If you stop letting those people in, I worry about America continuing to be great.
America has given me everything that I've dreamed of and even things that I could never even dream of. I wish people could stop looking at immigrants like outsiders and just confirm how they feel -- American.
Maduro on Sunday repeated his claim that his country is the victim of an economic war waged by his opponents, according to state-run news agency AVN.
 Venezuela crisis: I flew to U.S. to buy toilet paper
The government has resorted to increasingly extreme measures to try to combat the economic chaos, which has left people facing severe shortages of food and medicines.
The country's plunging currency and runaway inflation have made its banknotes virtually worthless. Maduro announced plans last month to print new bills in far higher denominations to replace the old ones, including a 20,000 bolivar note (200 times bigger than the largest note previously in circulation).
 These currencies got crushed in 2016
But the currency exchange got off to a chaotic start, with the new notes failing to arrive on time and huge lines forming at banks.
Venezuela joined a "Rogues Gallery" of countries suffering from hyperinflation in December, according to Steve Hanke and Charles Bushnell, two economists who track the phenomenon.
Maduro said Sunday that the minimum wage increase was an effort to protect the incomes of Venezuelan citizens. It follows a hike of 40% less than three months ago.
 Venezuela is printing a 20,000 bolivar note
After the latest raise, the minimum wage stands at 40,638 bolivars a month. That works out at just $12.14, according to the popular, unofficial exchange rate on DolarToday.com.
If you add in food stamps, the Venezuelan wage rises to 104,358 bolivars. That's still only $31.17.
Food stamps and worker bonuses make up most of workers' total pay in Venezuela.
Any moves higher could make Monday's trading session one for the history books.
There's less enthusiasm in European markets as many indexes dip a bit in early trading.
Asian markets ended the day with mixed results.
2. Pound gets pounded: The U.K. currency is taking a beating right now, falling against every major global currency by about 1% or more.
It's currently worth just under $1.22 or about €1.15.
Traders are punishing the pound after U.K. Prime Minister Theresa May said that her objective was a clean break from the European Union, the nation's biggest trading partner.
"Often people talk in terms as if somehow we are leaving the EU, but we still want to keep bits of membership of the EU," she said on Sunday. "We are leaving. We are coming out."
A major Tube strike in London, which has slowed business in the city, probably hasn't helped matters either.
Before the Bell newsletter: Key market news. In your inbox. Subscribe now!
3. McDonald's deal: McDonald's (MCD) is selling off most of its China business in a deal worth as much as $2.1 billion.
Citic, a massive Chinese financial firm, is taking a majority stake in the McDonald's operations in mainland China and Hong Kong.
U.S. private equity giant The Carlyle Group is also buying into the investment combo, taking a 28% stake. McDonald's will hold the remaining 20% of the business.
McDonald's CEO Steve Easterbrook said the fast food company's new partners would bring a better understanding of the Chinese market.
4. Fiat Chrysler shares rally: Shares in Fiat Chrysler (FCAU) are rallying in Italy and are set to shoot higher in the U.S. after the company announced a $1 billion investment to expand factories in Ohio and Michigan and create 2,000 new jobs in the U.S.
The announcement is the latest phase in an "industrialization plan" the company announced a year ago.
5. Europe's painfully-high unemployment: While the U.S. unemployment rate of 4.7% is near its lowest level in a decade, the eurozone's job market continues to struggle.
New numbers out Monday show eurozone unemployment remained just under 10% in November. The figures showed there were no signs of improvement from the previous month.
Download CNN MoneyStream for up-to-the-minute market data and news
6. Coming this week:
Monday - Tenth anniversary of iPhone announcement Tuesday - Obama delivers farewell address  Wednesday - Trump scheduled to give press conference; Tillerson confirmation hearing Thursday - Delta (DAL) earnings  Friday - Bank of America (BAC), JPMorgan Chase (JPM) and Wells Fargo (WFC) report earnings
McDonald's CEO Steve Easterbrook said the fast food company's new partners would bring a better understanding of the Chinese market.
 More touch screens and table service just the beginning of McDonald's change
The deal is the latest move in Easterbrook's efforts to overhaul the global burger chain. In the U.S., it has launched more customized sandwiches with fancier ingredients, introduced all-day breakfast to the menu and brought in touch screens and table service.
Customers in China could also see changes soon. McDonald's says "menu innovation" and using digital technology are priorities for the new Chinese business.
Bringing in Citic and Carlyle doesn't mean the McDonald's brand is pulling back in China, where the economy is slowing down after decades of rapid growth.
The partners say they're aiming to open more than 1,500 new restaurants in China and Hong Kong over the next five years, with a focus on bringing the golden arches to smaller Chinese cities.
 KFC China owner has a finger lickin' good debut
McDonald's aim is to drastically reduce the number of stores it owns in favor of franchises. The China deal will enable it to slash its company-owned stores by 1,750.
McDonald's announcement follows Yum Brands' spinoff of its China division late last year. The decision by the KFC parent came after pressure from activist shareholders.
Both big U.S. fast food companies had suffered in China in recent years after food safety scandals. McDonald's and Yum (YUM) reported improving results at their Chinese businesses last year until they were hit by anti-U.S. protests in July.
 For some patients with Obamacare, access to cancer centers is limited
"It's a wonderful time for doctors looking for coverage and it's never been better for insurers," said Michael Matray, editor of Medical Liability Monitor, a trade publication.
Doctors are paying less for malpractice insurance than they did in 2001 — without any inflation adjustment, according to the Doctors Company, one of the nation's largest malpractice insurers. And the rate of claims has dropped by half since 2003.
"It's a time of relative calm and this hasn't been a front burner issue or crisis," said Nicholas Pace, a researcher who studies the civil justice system at the Rand Corp., a nonprofit think tank. "But now Republicans see an opportunity to make changes they have wanted for a long time as they replace Obamacare."
Their proposals would make it easier for doctors to defend themselves in malpractice cases and raise the burden of proof on patients claiming to have been injured. Many Republicans also back sharp limits on damage awards, often citing California's landmark law capping noneconomic damages at $250,000 as a national model.
Price, an orthopedic surgeon in the Atlanta area for more than 20 years, has long championed "lawsuit abuse reform" as a way to reduce the nation's runaway health spending.
 What Obamacare could be replaced with under Trump
"We waste hundreds of billions of dollars due to lawsuit abuse in this country and the practice of defensive medicine," Price said in June at a press conference to promote the House Republicans' replacement plan for the health law. "Instead of just putting a Band-Aid on it, we propose a bold and robust solution."
But any such savings are vastly overstated, experts say. They warn that Republicans risk going too far in reducing consumer access to the justice system and fair compensation for medical mistakes.
Some academics and consumer advocates say the GOP political agenda isn't addressing the bigger goal of reducing overall patient harm. This year, researchers estimated that medical errors claim more than 250,000 lives annually, which would make it the nation's third leading cause of death behind heart disease and cancer.
"What strikes me about these current proposals is that they really represent the agenda of medical professionals, which is all about limiting liability," said Michelle Mello, a Stanford University law professor and health researcher. "To take any malpractice reform seriously, it has to offer something to improve the situation of patients and lead to safer outcomes."
 Trump's health secretary pick has long record of service -- to doctors
Although the costs are tough to quantify, studies suggest that about 3% of the nation's $3.2 trillion in health care spending, or nearly $100 billion, is related to malpractice cases and defensive medicine (ordering unnecessary tests and treatments to protect against litigation). That's a considerable sum, but researchers have found that stronger legal protections don't necessarily change physician behavior or produce less expensive care.
House Republicans contend the costs are far greater — more than $300 billion annually. In a 2010 interview, Price went even higher, suggesting that defensive medicine accounted for a quarter of all U.S. health care spending.
Now Price and a Republican-controlled Congress are in a position to put their ideas for tort reform into law. Limits on malpractice damages are a perennial favorite of conservatives who say the current system merely serves trial lawyers fishing for a big payday.
Price's proposed legislation for replacing the Affordable Care Act doesn't include a cap on damage awards. But he has supported Ryan's "Better Way" plan that specifically cites the pioneering financial limits imposed in California as an effective solution.
California and other states "have shown that such reforms result in an increase in doctors, increased access to specialists, and reduction in medical liability insurance premiums," Ryan's plan says.
More than 30 states already have some form of cap on damages in malpractice suits. To varying extents, both industry officials and researchers credit state efforts to rein in litigation and payouts with helping to contain costs. Insurers say they're doing well but would welcome tort reform at a national level.
Researchers caution that caps are hardly the only factor in keeping premiums down, saying economic cycles and insurers' investment returns are also important forces. And they note that courts have struck down caps in some states as ineffective or unconstitutional.
Meanwhile, plaintiffs' lawyers say damage caps make them reluctant to take on cases, given the money often required for expert witnesses and trial preparation.
The caps "have some modest effects on costs, but it comes at a price of people being able to access the civil justice system," Mello said.
Caps on noneconomic damages for "pain and suffering" can also disproportionately hurt women and the elderly, who more often can't get significant economic damages because they aren't big wage earners.
California imposed its cap of $250,000 on noneconomic damages in 1975 and it has never been increased to keep pace with inflation.
 GOP health proposal was tried in Georgia for years, but there were no takers
A Rand study examined the outcomes in 257 medical malpractice trials in California during the late 1990s. The cap was triggered in nearly half of the cases that plaintiffs won, and the overall amount of damages was cut by 30%, from $421 million to $295 million.
That state law wiped out most of a $7 million jury award for noneconomic "pain and suffering" damages to the family of Steven Olsen in 1994. At 2 years old, Steven suffered brain damage and went blind after his doctors failed to administer a scan that would have detected an abscess on his brain, his family said.
Scott Olsen, Steven's father, said he left his job recently as a technical writer in Chula Vista, Calif., to care for his 26-year-old son, who can't feed or dress himself.
The family received $4 million in economic damages -- which cover items like medical expenses, future or lost earnings, -- as part of the litigation. But Scott Olsen said "it's immoral that a jury doesn't get to decide the severity of the injury." He said those damage awards hold medical providers accountable and help prevent the same mistakes from hurting more patients.
A 2014 ballot measure that would have raised the California cap to more than $1.1 million failed to pass, garnering support from only a third of voters.
Another key proposal from Price calls for establishing clinical practice guidelines for physicians to follow and use to defend malpractice claims — an idea that has attracted bipartisan support in the past.
"If your doctor does the right thing for a given diagnosis or a given set of symptoms, they ought to be able to use it as an affirmative defense in a court of law," Price said in June at an event sponsored by the conservative American Enterprise Institute.
 Doctors and hospitals ask patients to pay up before treatment
Experts say that only about 15% of malpractice cases would be affected by the adoption of clinical guidelines.
Price also has a more controversial proposal — to fund the creation of state-run tribunals to rule on injury claims. It would require patients to prove gross negligence by doctors, a higher legal standard than in civil court, and would create panels of medical experts to screen cases for merit.
Given all the competing assertions and proposals out there, and differing views even among Republicans, health policy experts urge a cautious approach on tort reform.
"You need solid empirical evidence before you move forward on national malpractice reform, not anecdotes or horror stories from a particular county in western New Hampshire," said Rand's Pace. "That is not how you decide to overhaul the entire system."
Kaiser Health News is national health policy news service that is part of the nonpartisan Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation.
The company will also make a new Jeep pickup truck at its assembly complex in Toledo.
The 2,000 jobs will support production of the new models and be in place by 2020.
 Car sales set another U.S. record
UAW President Dennis Williams said in a statement that the union is happy with Fiat Chrysler's decision.
"These investments will benefit UAW members, their families and communities by providing greater job security and a world class manufacturing environment," he said.
The Warren and Toledo plants getting this latest round of investment were promised they would be able to build new, unspecified vehicles in the recent labor contract.
Last July, Fiat Chrysler announced about $2.5 billion in other investments in its factories in the United States. Those plans included adding jobs at plants in Illinois, Ohio and Michigan.
Months earlier, the company said it would cut 1,300 jobs from a Detroit-area factory, which produced the Chrysler 200 sedan. That was the first permanent layoff at a U.S. auto plant since the crisis days of 2009.
 GM and Chrysler have more workers in Mexico than Ford
President-elect Donald Trump thanked the company on Twitter on Monday.
Automakers' job plans have been in headlines because of public pressure from the incoming president.
Ford said last week that it will expand in Michigan and U.S. instead of building a BILLION dollar plant in Mexico. Thank you Ford & Fiat C!
Last week, Trump criticized GM (GM) for producing cars in Mexico. And Ford (F) announced it would cancel plans to build a new plant in Mexico and invest $700 million in Michigan instead.
Ford said it had not cut a deal with Trump but cast the investment as a "vote of confidence" in the pro-business environment Trump vows to create. During the presidential campaign, Trump had slammed Ford for shipping U.S. jobs to Mexico (a claim the company said was wrong).
During a press conference at the Detroit Auto Show, Fiat Chrysler CEO Sergio Marchionne said his company's decision was neither a response to Trump's pressure on the auto industry nor an effort to pre-empt him from attacking Fiat Chrysler.
"We're not going to do anything about President-elect Trump," he said. "We'll just respond to relevant policies."
--CNNMoney's Peter Valdes-Dapena and Chris Isidore contributed to this story.
A global trade war, on the other hand, would.
 Goldman Sachs accounts for 24% of Dow's spectacular Trump rally
 Big banks counting on love from Trump and Fed
2. Trump press conference: The president elect says he'll hold a press conference -- his first since July -- on Wednesday.
Previously, Trump has said that such a news conference would give him a chance to talk to the media about the future of his businesses. Critics fear that a multitude of conflicts could arise from Trump's sprawling business entanglements, hampering his judgment when he takes office.
Trump has made efforts to distance himself from his businesses, but it's not clear how effective they'll be. He put his three eldest children in charge of the Trump Organization, but they've remained a key part of his transition team. Expect some questions about that.
 Trump sets first news conference since election for Jan. 11
3. Rex Tillerson's confirmation: On Wednesday, the Senate will decide whether to confirm Rex Tillerson as the next secretary of state.
Members of the senate will likely see the Tillerson's ties with Russia and his relationship with ExxonMobil (XOM) -- where he served as chief executive until December -- as potential conflicts of interest.
Tillerson's confirmation could be good news for ExxonMobil and other oil giants. If the Trump administration lifts Russian sanctions, ExxonMobil will be able to move forward with deals worth billions of dollars. That would be a boon for the company, which has been struggling to cope with falling oil prices and is facing a lawsuit over climate change.
 Rex Tillerson to put Exxon nest egg in a trust over conflict of interest concerns
 Exxon would win if Tillerson works to lift Russia sanctions
 Behind the deep ties between Exxon's Rex Tillerson and Russia
4. iPhone's tenth anniversary. Monday marks ten years since Apple (AAPL, Tech30) first announced the iPhone.
A decade later, there's a lot of pressure on Apple to deliver with their next device, which is slated to appear on the market in fall of this year. In 2016, Apple announced its first sales decline since 2001. The disappointing year hit CEO Tim Cook's wallet directly -- he took a 15% pay cut last year. And the latest iPhone released in September of last year, received a cool reception.
Maybe some first iPhone nostalgia will do Apple good. If not, there's always the chance that another exploding Samsung (SSNLF) battery will help save the day.
 Apple's annual sales fall for first time since 2001
 Apple cuts Tim Cook's pay 15% for missing sales goals
5. Coming this week:
Monday - Tenth anniversary of iPhone announcement; SpaceX scheduled to launch
Tuesday - Obama delivers farewell address
Wednesday - Tillerson confirmation hearing; Trump scheduled to give press conference
Thursday - Delta earnings
Friday - Bank of America, JPMorgan Chase and Wells Fargo report earnings
Two decades ago, The Limited was on fire. It operated more than 750 stores across the country. The brand acquired several others, including Victoria's Secret and Abercrombie & Fitch, and it's responsible for creating the massively popular children's brand spinoff, Limited Too, in the 1990s.

 Amazon worth more than Sears, Macy's and Target combined
But The Limited brand fell on hard times in the mid-2000's. Sun Capital Partners, a private firm, took over its management in 2007 -- spinning the flagship brand off from the other L Brands (LB) labels. Limited Too was eventually acquired by Justice parent-company Tween Brands.
The Limited is among a long list of brick-and-mortar retailers that once thrived in malls and strip shopping centers -- but are now suffering at the hands of digital commerce giants like Amazon (AMZN, Tech30) and fast fashion stores such as H&M and Forever 21.
 Sears and Kmart closing 150 stores
Macy's (M) also brought bad news to mall shoppers. On Wednesday, the company said it's shutting down another 68 of its U.S. storefronts. And Sears (SHLD) said Friday that it's shuttering 150 more Kmart and Sears locations.
The goal is to "make them healthier, get them off social programs, get them off dependence on government, get them into higher wage jobs that have a future that possibly pay benefits. That's a great benefit for the state," he said.
 Why so many people hate Obamacare
But so far, federal officials said states can't make participation in a work program mandatory for Medicaid recipients. Montana, instead, had to make its job training component voluntary.
Republican leaders across the country have long angled for more state control over Medicaid. The program's funding comes from both states and the federal government, with the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services scrutinizing states' use of the money.
In Montana and many other states, the bulk of Medicaid funding comes from the federal government. HHS in a Trump administration may let states have more leeway — in fact, Seema Verma, Trump's pick to run that division of HHS, advocated for more state control when she helped Indiana expand Medicaid. So the door could open to more Medicaid experiments like the one Buttrey has been pushing for.
The feds' rejection of mandatory job training meant Buttrey was barely able to win enough votes in Montana's Republican majority legislature to pass Medicaid expansion in 2015 last April. How's it working?
 What Obamacare could be replaced with under Trump
"I think it's a success story. I love this. I'm the poster child," says Ruth McCafferty. She is a 53-year-old single mom from Kalispell, with three kids at home. She lost her job with a lending company last spring, and she had no idea there was a new job training program available when she signed up for Medicaid. She was just focused on finding a way to afford the drugs she needs to control her diabetes and asthma.
"One inhaler that I do is $647," she says, bringing her medication costs to about $1,000 a month. "My plan was not to get them, only, like, a couple of them that were affordable, like $60, and the rest of them I was like, I guess I'll just be called 'Wheezy' from now on!"
McCafferty instead got Medicaid, filled her prescriptions, and she got free online training to become a mortgage broker. The state even paid for her 400-mile roundtrip to Helena to take the certification exam. And now they're paying part of her salary at a local business as part of an apprenticeship to make her easier to hire.
"It's awesome!" she said.
Of the 53,000 Montanans who've signed up for expanded Medicaid, only about 3,000 have signed up for help getting a job. That's in part because the federal government won't allow states to use Medicaid money for it. To set it up here, Buttrey had to cobble together funding from other jobs programs and squeeze $1 million out of a reluctant state legislature.
 For some patients with Obamacare, access to cancer centers is limited
Giving states the flexibility to tie their Medicaid programs to work requirements is an idea that's likely to be popular with the new Congress and Trump administration. But health policy researcher Joan Alker, who runs the Center for Children and Families at Georgetown University, warns that it could backfire.
"I think it's great and well worth doing to link people who might not be aware of existing job training programs or other kinds of work supports that can help them work. What I think is problematic is when this becomes a stick and not a support," she said.
Alker said many people on Medicaid already have jobs, often low-paying ones that don't offer health insurance, and they have little time for new training. In Montana, about two-thirds of those on Medicaid are already working. She said if people fail to meet a work requirement and then lose health benefits as a result, they'll likely just get sicker and become less able to work.
Kaiser Health News is national health policy news service that is part of the nonpartisan Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation.
Earlier this year, two Venezuelan oil barons living in the United States pled guilty to being part of a bribery ring valued at about $1 billion.
 Venezuela cash crisis worsens as new bills fail to arrive
The defendant in the latest case, Juan Jose Hernandez Comerma, is accused of carrying out bribes between at least 2008 and 2012 for his business partner, Abraham Jose Shiera Bastidas, who owned several U.S.-based energy companies and pled guilty to bribery charges in March.
Comerma allegedly paid for hotel rooms in Miami and New York for PDVSA official Alfonzo Elizer Gravina, as well as other bribes. In court documents prosecutors cite emails between the two men, including one where Comerma told Gravina, "I take care of you."
Comerma was also allegedly giving bribes on behalf of another Venezuelan man who pled guilty to bribery charges in June, Roberto Enrique Rincon Fernandez. Rincon owned energy companies in the U.S., and received contracts from PDVSA.
Rincon received 13 years in prison as part of a plea deal. Shiera posted bail in May. CNNMoney didn't immediately know the status of his case.
Comerma, if found guilty, could potentially face several years in prison.
The allegations come against the backdrop of Venezuela's spiraling economy that's running out of money. Venezuela badly depends on selling its vast oil reserves to survive. It's been crippled by sky-high inflation under the socialist regime of President Nicolas Maduro.
Keurig is best known for its single-cup coffee maker. But the new appliance will use the technology from its now-defunct cold beverage maker, the Keurig Kold, which was supposed to compete with SodaStream (SODA).
 Amazon worth more than Sears, Macy's and Target combined
Keurig desperately needs a hit product. It was acquired in 2015 for $13.9 billion by JAB Holding, which is privately held, after the company's stock price slid 70% in one year thanks to a massive sales slump.
The Kold, Keurig's latest product launch, was a major flop. The company stopped making them in June last year after just 10 months of production, and even doled out refunds to customers who purchased the product, which retailed for a whopping $370.
 Sears sells Craftsman to Stanley Black & Decker
SodaStream also beat Keurig to the punch with making in-home beer brewers. The company began selling the SodaStream Beer Bar in a couple of European markets last May, and it's introducing the product to more countries throughout 2017.
Boeing and Airbus are facing a challenging landscape for sales and are focusing their attention on delivering on their swollen order books. Boeing ended 2016 with more than 5,700 commercial aircraft on order.
One key target missed by the aerospace and defense giant was its aim of winning new orders roughly equal its 2016 jetliner deliveries. The plane maker delivered 748 airliners in 2016, down slightly from its 2015 record of 762.
Boeing attributed the expected drop in deliveries to producing some updated 737 Max jets and U.S. Air Force refueling tankers in 2016 that won't be delivered until this year and beyond. Nearly two-thirds of its deliveries last year were for single-aisle 737s, the workhorses of the global airline fleet.
The aerospace giant added 278 new orders in its final update, including commitments for 186 airliners for unidentified buyers, a late rally that swelled its orders by nearly 50%, but still fell short of its target.
Boeing's customers canceled 180 airplanes in 2016, up from 108 in 2015, a sign of increasing caution by jet buyers.
Boeing's European rival, Airbus, will release its full year order and delivery tally on January 11.
Boeing wins 848 gross orders for 2016, including a late 278-jet rally. With 180 cancelations (668 net), it missed its ~745 order target. pic.twitter.com/qc1hAryAUn
The world's new planes in 2017
The Chicago-based company begins 2017 in an uncertain political landscape. President-elect Donald Trump has upended the certainty of Boeing's orders with its biggest single customer block, the airlines of China. And Republican majorities in the House and Senate have vowed to fight Boeing's 80 jet deal with Iran Air.
Trump & Boeing: It's not about Air Force One, it's about China
Inside its factories, the aerospace giant begins a busy year. The company will begin introducing to airlines its updated 737 Max single aile jet, but will reduce output by 40% of its most profitable big airliner, the long-range 777.
Boeing will also bring a new twin-aisle jet to its lineup this year, a 320-seat version of its 787 Dreamliner currently being assembled in South Carolina. It will also start early production of its new flagship 400-seat 777X airliner, which delivers in 2020.
Mary Mack, Wells Fargo's head of community banking, recently said the new pay plan's "primary focus will be on customer service and growth."
The news was first reported by The Wall Street Journal.
The compensation rollout is central to Wells Fargo's efforts to repair a 165-year-old storied reputation that was tarnished by the scandal over the creation of as many as 2 million fake bank and credit card accounts.
Wells Fargo workers have said the old sales goals -- aimed at selling at least eight financial products per customer -- were so unrealistic that they could only be met by cheating.
To hit their targets, Wells Fargo employees engaged in sordid tactics such as "pinning" -- the practice of issuing unauthorized ATM cards and assigning PIN numbers. Other Wells Fargo workers created fake customer email addresses such as 1234@wellsfargo.com to complete applications.
"It was ingrained in the culture for a long time," Anthony Try, a California Wells Fargo worker who quit in 2013, recently told CNNMoney.

 Wells Fargo giving raise to 25,000 workers
Warren Buffett, whose Berkshire Hathaway (BRKA) is Wells Fargo's biggest shareholder, believes the bank made a "terrible mistake" by keeping in place sales goals that "corrupted people."
"It was a dumb incentive system," Buffett told CNN's Poppy Harlow in November.
Wells Fargo first announced plans to scrap the sales goals on September 13, days after the settlement that set off the controversy. Two weeks later, on October 1, Wells Fargo said it would nix the sales goals, ahead of its original plan to keep them in place for the rest of 2016.
Wells Fargo has struggled to open as many new accounts in the wake of the scandal and without sales goals. The bank said new customer checking account openings plunged by 41% in November compared with the same period of 2015. Credit card applications dropped by 45% year-over-year.
"We know we have more work ahead of us," Mack said last month.
"We've got the hats on and the party makers going," he joked.
The Dow first started flirting with 20,000 three weeks ago when stocks were still red hot in the post-election Trump euphoric rally. But that march ran into resistance and stocks flatlined before declining last week.
 Today's Dow is a lot different from just 20 years ago
Contrary to many predictions, Wall Street has had a terrific stretch since Trump's surprising defeat of Hillary Clinton. The Dow has surged more than 1,600 points since the election on hopes that Trump's stimulus plans -- lower taxes, less regulation and more infrastructure spending -- will unleash U.S. growth and juice corporate profits.
But President Obama can claim some credit for Friday's gains. The latest rally occurred on a day when the government said the U.S. added jobs in December for a record 75th straight month. The unemployment rate of 4.7% is just off the lowest level since 2007.
While the Dow narrowly missed its milestone, a broader index that traders follow much more closely than the 30-stock Dow hit a few of its own.
Not only did the S&P 500 finish at a record high, but for the 60th consecutive day it avoided declining by 1% or more. That's the longest stretch without a market plunge since a 66-day streak in the summer of 2014, according to LPL Financial's Ryan Detrick.
Heck, some traders joked that red hot chip company Nvidia (NVDA, Tech30), the top performer in the S&P 500 last year with a nearly 225% gain, should replace Netflix as the N in FANG.
Few probably think that now. Netflix is once again a Wall Street darling.
The stock went on an amazing tear at the end of the year and wound up with an 8% gain for 2016. It's up 7% more in just the first four trading days of 2017 and hit an all-time high on Friday.
Netflix is now worth about $57 billion. That's almost $15 billion more than the combined value of Sumner Redstone-backed CBS (CBS) and Viacom (VIAB). It's also a little more than Rupert Murdoch's Fox (FOXA).
What's changed? Investors are no longer as worried about Netflix's ability to keep attracting new subscribers following a strong earnings report in the third quarter.
 Why Netflix's Iron Fist will look different than anything else
And the company has proved it can produce one hit show after another. I used to refer to Netflix as the company known for "House of Cards" because that was one of its first original hits.
But it's since churned out one popular show after another, including "Orange is the New Black," a series of programs based on Disney/Marvel comic books ("Daredevil", "Jessica Jones" and "Luke Cage") and "Stranger Things" -- a creepy love letter to the '80s.
If I tried to list all the Netflix programs that have tapped into the zeitgeist and racked up award nominations now, my editor would have a coronary because the word count would be so high. ("The Get Down," "Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt," "Narcos" ... )
Netflix has also expanded to almost every major market worldwide, with the notable exception of China.
So what can it do for an encore? This may sound like a broken record. But some Wall Street analysts are a little worried that expectations are too high.
Even though CEO Reed Hastings continues to defy the skeptics -- some even think Disney (DIS) should consider him as a potential successor to Bob Iger -- the stock is looking extremely expensive.
Shares trade for about 140 times forecasts for 2017 earnings.
And while new shows -- such as the return of "Gilmore Girls," the "Fuller House" sequel, a reboot of "One Day at a Time" and art house favorite "The Crown" -- are generating buzz, they may not be as big of a driver of new subscribers as other shows.
 Netflix viewers binge shows, then chill
UBS analyst Doug Mitchelson wrote in a report Thursday that the new shows are a series of singles and doubles as opposed to a home run like "Stranger Things."
That's not the worst thing in the world, of course. All of baseball's most famous sluggers hit more singles than home runs in their careers.
But for the stock to keep climbing, investors will want to see Netflix's subscriber count continue to tick higher. And here's the magic number to watch: 100 million.
Netflix ended the third quarter with a little more than 87 million global streaming subscribers. Wall Street is predicting 100 million by the third quarter of this year.
If Netflix gets there sooner, the stock could avoid a nasty trip to Wall Street's equivalent of the Upside Down in "Stranger Things."
In fact, it's not even close.
 Macy's is closing 68 stores, cutting 1,000 jobs
Amazon's market value is just north of $370 billion. These other retailers are collectively worth a little less than $95 billion. And a big chunk of that is from Target, which has a market value of $40 billion.
Amazon also is worth significantly more than other global retail giants.
Its market value is about $135 billion higher than Alibaba's (BABA, Tech30) and $160 billion more than Walmart (WMT). Amazon is worth more than twice as much as Home Depot (HD), and six times as much as Lowe's (LOW).
The company is much more valuable than another famous retailer based in the state of Washington too -- Costco (COST). That warehouse giant, which is increasingly competing with Amazon in the grocery business, is worth about $300 billion less than Amazon.
 Sears and Kmart closing 150 stores
Traditional retailers are doing all they can to compete with Amazon. But it looks like they are going to have to use the old Avis (CAR) rental car motto and try harder. JCPenney joined Macy's and Kohl's Friday morning by reporting disappointing results for the holidays.
"Brands like Macy's, Sears, and Kmart are struggling to evolve their brands and stay relevant for today's digitally-savvy and dynamic shopper," said Forrester retail analyst Brendan Witcher.
No kidding. And the stock performance of all these retailers clearly show that many retailers are also to struggling to remain relevant with digitally-savvy and dynamic investors as well.
Amazon, for better or worse, is the only major retail stock that Wall Street wants to put in its shopping cart.
Trump and Congressional Republicans are taking their first steps to repeal Obamacare, which they have long blasted as being too expensive. But they have yet to work out the details of a replacement plan.
Overall, health care comes in third among the top issues the public wants the next administration to address. The economy and jobs ranks first, with immigration coming next.
 Repealing Obamacare could cost 3 million jobs, study finds
When it comes to health care, Americans want Trump and Congress to focus on lowering costs in 2017. Two-thirds of those polled said reducing the amount people have to pay for health care should be a top priority. Another 60% said the President-elect and lawmakers should tackle the high cost of prescription drugs.
At the same time, only 35% listed having the federal government pare back its health care spending as the #1 priority.

As for Obamacare, 37% named its repeal as the most important health care issue for Republicans.
 Why so many people hate Obamacare
Americans, however, are also divided over whether to jettison President Obama's signature health reform law. Some 47% said it should not be repealed, while 49% think it should.
Even those who support repeal differ on the timing. Some 28% said lawmakers should dismantle the law once they have a replacement plan in place, while another 20% said Obamacare should be repealed immediately and Congress can work out a replacement later. (The numbers don't quite add up to 49% due to rounding.)
The majority of Americans feel that the quality of their health care and their ability to get and keep health insurance will not change if Obamacare is repealed.
But when it comes to the cost of health care, 27% said repealing the law would make things better, while 28% felt they would have to pay more. Some 43% said it wouldn't make much difference.
Tax breaks -- which include credits, deductions, exclusions and exemptions -- reduced revenue by at least $1.5 trillion in fiscal year 2016, according to the Congressional Budget Office.
Meanwhile, the amount spent on domestic and defense programs in the same period? Just under $1.2 trillion.
Those spending programs, which make up a third of the federal budget, are not the primary drivers of the debt, yet they are where the lion's share of spending cuts have occurred in recent years. In fact, spending on them is nearing its lowest level as a share of GDP in half a century.
They are also the areas Congress allocates money to every year. The rest of federal spending goes toward entitlement programs and interest on the debt, which essentially are on autopilot and are the biggest drivers of debt long-term.
Lawmakers could choose to exert control over tax breaks every year too, but they don't.
"We rarely even take a look at, let alone review or budget, the tax breaks. We sweat bullets over outlays on the budget, to the point [where] we've shut the government down over how much to spend," Don Kettl, professor at the University of Maryland School of Public Policy, noted in a recent op-ed.
 Domestic spending is near 53-year lows. Yet Congress keeps cutting ...
Here are the 10 most expensive tax breaks and how much they reduced revenue in 2016:
1. Treating money your employer pays for your health insurance as tax-free to you ($144 billion)
2. Lower rates on capital gains and dividends compared to regular income ($135 billion)
3. Tax deferral on the foreign profits of U.S. companies ($109 billion)
4. Exclusion of contributions and earnings in 401(K)s and other defined contribution plans ($83 billion)
5. Mortgage interest deduction ($77 billion)
6. Earned income tax credit ($73 billion)
7. State and local tax deduction ($65 billion)
8. Obamacare insurance subsidies ($54 billion)
9. Exclusion of contributions and earnings in defined benefit pension plans ($57 billion)
10. Child tax credit ($56 billion)
Why have tax breaks at all?
Historically, lawmakers use the tax code to spur certain activities -- e.g. buying a house or innovating through research and development. They also use it to encourage social goals -- for example, rewarding low-income parents who work.
Then, of course, there are the special tax breaks that offer little bang for the buck but get written into the code for specific industries thanks in large part to their persistent lobbying.
Some fiscal policy experts like Kettl and former CBO director Donald Marron argue that tax expenditures should be included in any calculation of how much the government "spends." Doing so would give a truer sense of the size of government as well as a clearer indication of the money going out the door directly or indirectly.
The federal budget -- a measure of direct spending -- came to nearly $3.9 trillion in 2016. If tax expenditures were included, the number would jump to roughly $5.4 trillion.
"Tax breaks are spending by another means," Kettl said. "Every dollar by which you reduce revenue is a dollar that increases the deficit."
He's right: The economy has added jobs for 75 straight months, although his overall jobs gains aren't as strong as some prior presidents.
The U.S. added 15.9 million jobs under President Ronald Reagan and a whopping 22.9 million under President Bill Clinton if you look at how many Americans were employed in the last full month they were in office versus the January when they were sworn in.
Obama did outpace President George W. Bush though. Bush is in the back of the pack among recent presidents who served two terms. Only 2.1 million jobs were added during Bush's full tenure.
 Unemployment closes out at a low 4.7%
Could Obama have done better? His supporters point out that he faced a severe challenge that other presidents did not.
"There's a dramatic difference between what Barack Obama was handed and what Donald Trump will be stepping into," says Mark Hamrick, senior economic analyst at Bankrate.com.
He took office in January 2009 -- in the depths of the Great Recession -- when the U.S. was bleeding nearly 800,000 jobs a month. It was the worst economic hole America had seen since the Great Depression of the 1930s.
Obama himself called it a "moment of peril unlike any we'd seen in decades."
Congress and President Obama acted swiftly with a stimulus package that spent big money on roads and other projects and also gave people tax cuts. The goal was to get people back to work.
It took awhile to kick in, but businesses finally started adding jobs by the end of 2010. Since then, the gains have accelerated: 2014 and 2015 turned out to be the best years for jobs gains since the late 1990s.
 These are the top-paying jobs in America

The unemployment rate peaked at 10% and is now back down to 4.7% -- a level many consider normal for a healthy economy.
"The economy is at full employment. This is it," says Chris Rupkey, chief financial economist at MUFG Union Bank. "The pool is all but drained especially for skilled workers."
There is an ongoing debate about how "good" the jobs added were. Almost all of the employment gains under Obama were so-called service jobs. Some of those are high-paying like nursing and tech, but others are low-wage, like retail and restaurant jobs. One economist found that 47% of the jobs created under Obama are in the "high-wage" category.
One of Obama's regrets is that he wasn't able to do more to reduce inequality in America.
"We have to acknowledge the inequality that has come from an increasingly globalized economy while committing ourselves to making it work better for everyone, not just those at the top," he said in his letter.
The unemployment rate also ticked up a bit to 4.7% from 4.6% in November.
"With the U.S. at full employment, there may be problems finding workers to fill some vacant positions, so a lower [jobs] figure could be a sign of a stronger labor market, not a weaker labor market," warned Paul Donovan, global chief economist at UBS Wealth Management.
2. Stock market overview: U.S. stock futures are edging up after the jobs report.
European markets are mostly declining in afternoon trading, though the dips are small.
Asian markets ended the week with mixed results.
On Thursday, the Dow Jones industrial average and S&P 500 both edged a bit lower, but the Nasdaq inched up to close at a record 5,488 points.
Before the Bell newsletter: Key market news. In your inbox. Subscribe now!
3. Market movers -- Toyota, Amgen: Shares in Toyota (TM) slipped by nearly 2% in Tokyo after the company was targeted by a threatening tweet from President-elect Donald Trump.
Trump took aim at the automaker over its plans to open a new factory in Mexico.
"Build plant in U.S. or pay big border tax," he wrote.
Shares in the biopharmaceutical firm Amgen (AMGN) are rallying premarket after a U.S. District Court judge ordered its competitors Sanofi (SNY) and Regeneron Pharmaceuticals (REGN) to stop selling a drug that infringes on Amgen patents.
Sanofi shares are sliding in Europe while trading in Regeneron stock has been suspended.
Both Sanofi and Regeneron say they'll appeal the decision.
4. Eye on India: The Indian government has downgraded its economic growth forecast for the current financial year, expecting the economy to expand by 7.1% instead of 7.6%.
This is the first forecast the government has published since creating a cash crisis by banning 86% of the country's rupee notes.
Analysts estimate the ban could bring down India's strong economic growth by as much as one percentage point.
Download CNN MoneyStream for up-to-the-minute market data and news
5. Coming this week:
Friday - Release of U.S. jobs report for December
Wages grew a solid 2.9% in December, the best pace since 2009. Wage growth has been one of the last measures to gain momentum during Obama's tenure. Job gains in November revised up significantly, adding 19,000 more jobs than first reported.
America's job market has made progress under Obama's watch. U.S. unemployment hit a high of 10% in October 2009 and is now at less than half that level. In December, the unemployment rate rose just a tad to 4.7% from 4.6% in November, the lowest rate since 2007.
The underemployment rate, which includes part-time workers who would like to work full time, also fell to 9.2%, its lowest point since 2008.
"By just about any measure, 2016 was a banner year for the job market," says Ian Siegel, co-founder of ZipRecruiter, a job recruitment site.
CNN wants to know: Is your town losing jobs?
In total, the economy has added 11.3 million jobs during Obama's presidency.
Experts and pundits often debate how much credit a president deserves for job growth. Some believe the Federal Reserve helped buoy the job market by keeping borrowing costs low in order to revive the housing market. Others criticize the Fed's decisions.
In any case, the American economy still has problems. Growth remains sluggish. The U.S. central bank expects growth to be a mere 2.1% this year.
Over 5 million Americans have part-time jobs but want to work full time. And many blue collar workers feel left behind in the economic recovery from the Great Recession -- a major factory that played into President-elect Donald Trump's election victory.
Trump promises to bring back manufacturing jobs from other countries and boost job growth overall. In December, America added 17,000 manufacturing jobs but for the year overall lost 45,000 jobs.
 Best jobs in America
One major challenge Trump will face is that many manufacturing workers who lost jobs don't have the advanced skills required for the new jobs.
"Those without higher skills and advanced training are out on the struggling end," says Fred Goff, founder of Jobcase, a job-search site.
Other industries also may pose a challenge, for other reasons. Health care led the job gains in December, adding 43,000 new jobs last month. America also added 20,000 social assistance workers, many of whom care for elderly Americans. Trump has promised to repeal the Affordable Care Act, which some industry experts say could cost jobs.
 The Obama Economy in 10 charts
Restaurants and bars added 30,000 jobs in December. Warehouses added 15,000 workers too. Construction and mining saw no meaningful gains.
Despite an uneven recovery, the U.S. job market kept up its overall momentum right up until the end of the year.
"The economy hit some headwinds and it continued to move forward," in 2016, says Robert Murphy, an economics professor at Boston College and former White House economist during the Clinton administration.
The federal government funds both state Medicaid expansion programs and the Obamacare premium subsidies. This money eventually flows to insurers and providers, including hospitals, clinics, pharmacies and other medical facilities. It's used to purchase medical equipment and other goods and to pay staff and vendors.
 Fully repealing Obamacare will cost $350 billion
When these funds are cut, insurers and providers could be forced to cut staff and may not be able to afford to pay their vendors. And those former workers now have less spending power -- triggering ripple effects throughout the economy.
That means state and local governments wouldn't be able to collect as much in tax revenue. The report estimates the fallout could be about $48 billion of forgone tax revenue over the course of five years.
"There have been other analyses that point out that a lot of people will lose their insurance [if Obamacare is repealed], but people have not discussed this broader economic impact," Leighton Ku, the report's lead author, told CNNMoney.
"The incoming administration is 'pro-growth,' but it causes concerns that one of the first things that comes up on the agenda is something that is anti-growth and will actually cost millions of jobs," Ku added.
 What Obamacare could be replaced with under Trump
There is, of course, the chance that Congress won't implement a repeal until there's a replacement plan in place. Joe Antos, a health policy expert at American Enterprise Institute, said it's "unrealistic" to assume otherwise.
If anything, Antos said he thinks Congress will wind up approving more federal health care spending, not less -- but Republicans will likely divert funds away from certain spending practices they disdain, such as the Medicaid expansion.
But if Congress' replacement for Obamacare does involve more spending, it could blow a massive hole in the federal budget.
 Republican Obamacare fan hopes Trump's stance softens
A separate report by the bipartisan Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget found it would cost $350 billion to do away with the coverage provisions, taxes and Medicare expansion implemented by Obamacare -- and that doesn't include the cost of a replacement measure.
As of now, it's all hypothetical. Republicans have yet to reach an agreement on the timing of the repeal, and the party does not appear to be close to reaching a consensus on how to replace the health reform law.
Reuters reported that the central bank, known as Banxico, sold $1 billion Thursday, but a central bank spokesperson said it wouldn't publish official figures until next week.
 Ford cancels plant in Mexico
One dollar equals 21.50 pesos. A year ago a dollar was worth nearly 18 pesos. It could fall further this year, possibly causing a flight of cash out of Mexico, experts say.
"Imagine if you have a trade war: The peso can go from 21 to 25," says Alberto Ramos, head of Latin America economic research at Goldman Sachs. Pulling money out of Mexico "may create some very destabilizing dynamics for the Mexican economy."
Central bank president Agustin Carstens, who described Trump as a "hurricane" for Mexico's economy, said before the election Mexico had a "contingency plan" ready if Trump won.
However, he won't be around long to execute the contingency plan. Carstens announced in December he will step down from his role in July for another key central bank position in Switzerland.
Thursday's rescue attempt by Mexico was just its latest to have short-lived gains. Since election day, the peso is down 13%.

Banxico has raised interest rates twice since the election to buoy the peso. Neither rate hike appears to have helped much in the long term as the peso slid to another all-time low earlier this week.
 Toyota to Trump: Mexico plant won't cause U.S. job losses
Trump revived another threat this week, telling Toyota and GM (GM) that if they made cars in Mexico and sold them in America they would face a "big border tax." During the campaign Trump said he would impose a 35% tax on companies that did that, but his transition team hasn't repeated that exact figure since.
A major concern is that Trump's threats, whether they become true or not, will weaken the peso so much that investors pull money out of Mexico. Currently, foreigners hold about $100 billion of Mexican government debt, according to central bank data compiled by Goldman Sachs (GS).
Mexico has also benefited from foreign investment in recent years. It received $29 billion in 2015 and $27 billion last year from abroad. But with a weak economy and currency, and Trump's threats, experts see that falling sharply. Bank of America (BAC)'s economists forecast Mexico only getting $20 billion in foreign investment this year.
Wells Fargo confirmed the change initially impacts roughly 25,000 mostly entry level employees, including tellers, phone bankers and customer service representatives.
The new minimum salary range is $13.50 to $17.00. Wells Fargo previously raised its entry pay to a range of $12 to $16 an hour in March.
A Wells Fargo spokeswoman said the latest pay hike is "completely unrelated" to the fake account scandal.
"This is part of our normal course of business where we understand what's happening in the competitive landscape and how we retain and attract top talent," she said.
 Inside Wells Fargo, workers say the mood is grim
Just last month rival Bank of America announced at an industry conference that over the next few months it would boost pay for its lowest-paid workers to $15 an hour.
Likewise, an 18% bump in pay for JPMorgan Chase (JPM) frontline workers to $12 an hour is set to take effect in February.
The Wells Fargo pay hike comes as the bank struggles to overcome the firestorm created by the bank's alleged mistreatment of workers and creation of as many as 2 million unauthorized accounts.
As CNNMoney previously reported, almost half a dozen Wells Fargo workers say they were fired prior to the fake account settlement after calling the bank's confidential ethics hotline.
More recently, current Wells Fargo employees have described a grim mood inside the bank following the scandal. "The culture is toxic," one Wells Fargo home mortgage consultant told CNNMoney.
Tim Sloan, who took over as Wells Fargo's CEO after longtime boss John Stumpf abruptly retired, has acknowledged the company's culture has "weaknesses" that have caused a morale problem.
Sloan apologized to employees for the "pain you have experienced as team members as a result of our company's failures."
It is hugely influential, in terms of its potential to affect the performance of the global financial markets.
The White House's Council of Economic Advisers briefs the president on the jobs numbers the night before they are released. It's standard procedure.
 Obama's gift to Trump: a 'pretty solid' economy
Since Obama took office in 2009, the economy has added over 11 million jobs. However, the president often touts that America has added 15 million jobs during his time, which is true if you discount the job losses during the recession and start counting jobs added since February 2010.
The unemployment rate also fell to 4.6% in November, a huge improvement compared to the 10% peak in October 2009.
Some 40% of Americans had an unfavorable view of the law in April 2010, while 46% had a favorable opinion, according to a Kaiser Family Foundation poll. Since then, the public's perception has generally been more dour. In November, 45% of people had a negative view, versus 43% with a positive one.
President-elect Donald Trump's promise to swiftly repeal Obamacare helped him win the election. At a swanky New Year's Eve bash at his Mar-a-Lago Club, he drew raucous, extended applause from the black-tie crowd when he repeated the vow.
Asked recently for their opinion of Obamacare, dozens of CNNMoney readers responded with a litany of complaints. The sweeping health care overhaul has offended people in multiple ways.
Some people hate Obamacare philosophically. They rail against the law because they don't think the government should force people to buy health insurance and penalize them if they don't.
Also, they view Medicaid expansion and subsidies for low- and moderate-income enrollees as yet another entitlement program that uses hard-working taxpayers' money to help lazy, undeserving people.
"It's a welfare program disguised as a health care program," said Charles Kraut, 67, a financial adviser who believes the smaller government is, the better. "Please show me where in the Constitution it says that the government should "promote the general welfare" by stealing from half the population to give to the other half."
The Lexington, Virginia, resident and his wife have health insurance through her job. But he says he resents having his tax dollars go for sex-change operations and abortions on demand.
Others say there's nothing affordable about the Affordable Care Act. They blast the program for having high premiums and deductibles that get worse every year. They are also angry that they couldn't keep the insurance plan or doctors that they had.
 Republican Obamacare fan hopes Trump's stance softens
The outcry over having to switch policies grew so intense in the fall of 2013 -- when millions of Americans received cancellation letters from their insurers -- that Obama had to issue a rare presidential apology. Politifact named Obama's claim that "If you like your health care plan, you can keep it" the Lie of the Year for 2013, further tarnishing the perception of the law.
Mike Dingledine of Coldwater, Ohio, feels misled by Obama's promises about the Affordable Care Act. While he is on Medicare, his 61-year-old wife bought an individual policy from Anthem -- the only carrier offering plans on the exchange in their area. Even after her subsidy, she still pays $340 a month for a policy with a $7,100 deductible.

"That's kind of a joke in itself," Dingledine said of his wife's policy, "because insurance doesn't pay for anything until you pay enough to reach the high deductibles they have. And, oh yeah, pay the monthly premiums on top of that."
Obamacare's high premiums and deductibles have led many -- particularly middle class Americans who aren't eligible for subsidies -- to question how "affordable" the Affordable Care Act is. However, more than eight in 10 enrollees are shielded from the recent spikes because they receive federal subsidies that lowers their cost of coverage to less than 10% of their income, depending on the plan they select.
Also, the Obama administration has been working with insurers to keep further rate increases in check.
 Moment of truth: Republicans finally get their chance on Obamacare
And for still others, the opposition is political. They don't like that Obama used his party's control of both chambers of Congress at the time to make sweeping healthcare reforms -- a goal that had eluded his Democratic predecessors. That sparked one of the most acrimonious political fights in Washington seen in modern history. After more than a year of bitter partisan debate, the House passed the bill without any Republican support.
Then-GOP House Minority Leader John Boehner gave voice to many Americans' hostility to the law when he lamented at the time: "Look at how this bill was written. Can you say it was done openly? With transparency and accountability? Without backroom deals that were struck behind closed doors? ... Hell no, you can't!"
Republicans, who won back control of Congress in subsequent elections, continued to savage the law. Obamacare was slammed by Republicans running for office. It faced an onslaught of repeal bills in the House and of legal challenges in the courts.
 Mike Pence: GOP will keep promise to repeal Obamacare
The GOP's pillorying of Obama's signature law has intensified since the election as Trump and Congress prepare to dismantle the program.
"Obamacare is a story of broken promise after broken promise after broken promise, followed by failing programs, higher premiums, higher deductibles," House Speaker Paul Ryan said Wednesday.
CNN's MJ Lee contributed to this story.
 What Trump can learn from Rex Tillerson, his secretary of state pick
Peebles doesn't agree with Trump on everything. He takes issue with Trump's pick for attorney general, Sen. Jeff Sessions, as well as with Trump's rhetoric on immigration.
The men have a decade-long business relationship, and Peebles told Romans that they recently sat down to discuss how to create opportunities for minorities. Peebles declined to share any specific policies the pair explored, but he said Trump is "prepared to take some bold steps."
Trump did make big promises to the black community during his campaign. He told poor communities that he would fight poverty in ways Democrats have not, and he infamously made a plea to African-Americans by asking them, "What the hell do you have to lose?"
The remark was offensive to many black voters, but Peebles said he wasn't phased. He said African-Americans have experienced a "tremendous loss of ground in many areas economically."
 Donald Trump to CEOs: Look out
"In terms of economic success...African Americans [are] at the bottom. Is there any further place to drop than the bottom?" Peebles said. "I think you've got to start trying something differently. He was doing it in a confrontational, Trump way of doing it, but he was saying, 'Give me a chance.'"
In the end, Trump's dramatic appeals and controversial remarks didn't land with minorities. He only captured 8% of the black vote. But Peebles defends Trump's character, saying his public persona is merely showmanship.
"He's a businessperson and an entertainer, so his style is more entertaining," Peebles said. He added that in private Trump is "very warm, very kind, complimentary [and] receptive to different ideas."
Since Berkshire's airline bets became public knowledge, shares of all four companies have been gaining in altitude. Delta (DAL) has risen 6%. American (AAL) is up 7%. Southwest (LUV) has soared nearly 13%. And United (UAL) has skyrocketed 14%.
Stocks often get a Buffett bump after Berkshire buys new stakes in them. Buffett is known as a consummate value investor, sifting through the rubble for bargains.
He's only recently begun to dip his toe into higher growth tech stocks -- and even there, Berkshire has limited itself to more mature (i.e. slower growth, gigantic and relatively cheap) tech companies like Apple (AAPL, Tech30), IBM (IBM, Tech30) and Verizon (VZ, Tech30).
But can airline stocks continue to build on their early post-Buffett investment gains? There are reasons for optimism.
To start, you can't ignore the elephant in the room named Donald Trump when having any discussion about stocks.
The entire market has been on a tear since Trump won the U.S. presidential election -- just a few days before Buffett's airline stakes were revealed.
 The world's new planes in 2017
So the boost in airline stocks could be viewed also as yet another sign of increased confidence in the U.S. economy following the election.
It's also worth noting that airline stocks took a breather last year after a couple of strong years, buffeted by terrorism fears, several high-profile technical glitches that led to major cancellations, rising jet fuel prices and a new round of fare wars sparked by discount carriers like Spirit (SAVE) and JetBlue (JBLU).
The airlines might be slowly getting back on track though.
Delta reported on Wednesday that its passenger unit revenue -- a key measure of financial health for airlines -- was flat in December. That was better than initially expected, a sign that the recent wave of lower ticket prices could be coming to an end.
That may not be great news for travelers obviously. But it's exactly what airline investors like Warren Buffett want to see.
But a spokesperson said that most of them were part-time workers and that "we are committed to treating these associates with respect and compassion during this process."
Sears also closed 78 stores last year and more than 200 in 2015.
The news also follows disappointing holiday results from other retail stores: Macy's (M) -- which is also closing stores and laying off workers -- and Kohl's (KSS).
Sears CEO Eddie Lampert said in a statement that the company was "taking strong, decisive actions...to stabilize the company and improve our financial flexibility in what remains a challenging retail environment."
The company noted that while the 150 stores collectively reported sales of $1.2 billion over the past 12 months, they also lost about $60 million. Sears has to stop the bleeding somehow, because the entire company is losing money.
 Sears sells Craftsman to Stanley Black & Decker
"The decision to close stores is a difficult but necessary step as we take actions to strengthen the company's operations and fund its transformation," Lampert said.
"Many of these stores have struggled with their financial performance for years and we have kept them open to maintain local jobs and in the hopes that they would turn around," he added.
Lampert stressed that the only way for the whole company to return to profitability will be for Sears to focus more on its better performing stores. (Click here for a list of the Kmart and Sears stores that are getting shut down.)
The company said that workers at the closing stores will receive severance payments and also have the opportunity to apply for positions at other Sears and Kmart stores in their area. And liquidation sales at the affected stores will begin on Friday.
 Macy's closing 68 stores, cuts 10,000 jobs
Sears stock rose more than 5% on Thursday despite the bad news. But Macy's, Kohl's and other retailers sank.
Meanwhile, Amazon (AMZN, Tech30) rose more than 2%.
That brings the total value of the deal to about $900 million.
It is cash that Sears, which also owns Kmart, sorely needs. And Sears (SHLD) stock surged as much as 8% on the news before pulling back. Sears also announced plans to close 150 more of its struggling Kmart and flagship Sears stores.
The company has reported declining sales for years. It has been bleeding red ink as a result.
 Sears and Kmart to close more stores as losses mount
Sears was once an icon of American retail. It was in the Dow Jones Industrial Average and lent its name to the famous tower in Chicago. But Sears was removed from the Dow in 1999 and that big building in the Windy City is now known as the Willis Tower.
Sears CEO Eddie Lampert was forced to deny bankruptcy rumors last year due to the company's massive debt load.
Sears first announced last May that it was considering the sale of its so-called KCD lineup of in-store brands -- Kenmore, Craftsman and DieHard -- in an effort to raise cash.
The company said at that time it was looking at strategic alternatives for its Home Services installation and repair businesses as well.
Rumors of Stanley Black & Decker's interest in Craftsman first began to circulate last October.
In a statement Thursday, Stanley Black & Decker CEO James Loree said his company will increase the availability of Craftsman products through other retailers (brick and mortar and online) as well as through industrial partners.
 Summer girls no longer shop at Abercrombie & Fitch
He added Stanley Black & Decker will expand its manufacturing presence in the U.S. as a result of the deal as well and that would lead to an unspecified amount of new jobs in America too. (That's sure to be music to the ears of President-elect Trump.)
Investors liked the news too. Stanley Black & Decker shares rose more than 2% Thursday.
But what about Sears? Lampert cryptically alluded to the possibility that other asset sales are still being worked on.
He said in the release about the Craftsman deal that "we will continue to take actions to adjust our capital structure, meet our financial obligations and manage our business to better position Sears Holdings to create long-term value."
Over the past few years, Sears has also spun off pieces of its Sears Hometown and Outlet Stores (SHOS) division, Lands' End (LE) and Sears Canada (SRSC).
It also created a separate public company for some of its real estate assets -- Seritage Growth Properties (SRG). Interestingly, stock market guru Warren Buffett has personally invested in that company.
But the backing of Buffett hasn't been enough to turnaround Sears either.
To be fair though, Sears is hardly the only traditional retailer that's fallen on hard times. The rise of Amazon (AMZN, Tech30) has hurt many older retail brands.
Macy's (M) just announced lousy results and a wave of store closings and layoffs on Wednesday. Kohl's (KSS) also warned that its sales during the holidays failed to meet expectations.
Both stocks plunged on the news. Other struggling retail chains, such as JCPenney (JCP), Nordstrom (JWN) and L Brands (LB), fell sharply as well.
Memorial Sloan Kettering participates in New York's Essential Plan, which is available to lower income people on the exchange, but it does not participate in any regular metal-level plans.
The cancer center is affiliated with two key organizations: the National Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) and the National Cancer Institute.
 Trump's health secretary pick has long record of service -- to doctors
The National Comprehensive Cancer Network is an alliance of 27 cancer centers. Member physicians and researchers develop widely recognized clinical practice guidelines. The National Cancer Institute recognizes many cancer centers for their scientific leadership and research. The 69 NCI-designated cancer centers can offer patients access to cutting edge treatments and clinical trials.
It's unclear the extent to which these cancer centers, which are often but not always affiliated with large academic institutions, are included in the provider networks of marketplace plans nationwide.
A survey by Avalere Health and NCCN in 2015 found that three-quarters of NCI-designated cancer centers said they participated in at least some exchange plans, and 13% said they were included in all exchange plans in their state. However, of the 25% of centers that didn't participate in any exchanges, many were in states with large numbers of exchange enrollees, including Texas and New York, the survey reported.
Does it matter if someone with a cancer diagnosis gets treatment at one of these centers rather than at a community hospital or some other site? Research suggests that it may.
 Doctors and hospitals ask patients to pay up before treatment
A study found that adult patients between the ages of 22 and 65 who were newly diagnosed with several types of cancer — breast, colorectal, lung, pancreatic, gastric and bile duct — were 20% to 50% more likely to die from it if they were initially treated at a non NCI-designated comprehensive cancer center. The study, which analyzed the 5-year survival rates of nearly 70,000 patients whose cancers were reported in the Los Angeles County cancer registry between 1998 and 2008, was published in the journal Cancer in 2015.
Researchers hypothesize that the cancer centers' multidisciplinary approach to decision-making, supportive care and access to cutting-edge treatment, among other things, contribute to the superior outcomes at comprehensive cancer centers, said Dr. Julie Wolfson, a pediatric oncologist at the Institute for Cancer Outcomes and Survivorship at the University of Alabama at Birmingham who co-authored the study.
"The goal is to find out what is different about these places and then disseminate that to other [treatment sites]," Wolfson said.
Often there are factors besides survival rates that contribute to patients' decisions about where to go for care, said Dr. Robert Carlson, CEO of the National Comprehensive Cancer Network. Those include social and support systems that patients already have in place and concerns about non-medical costs, such as housing and transportation.
"Most patients, if offered the option to go to major cancer center, especially if it involves traveling, will decline it," Carlson said.
Some cancer centers aim to give patients access to both types of facilities. City of Hope cancer center's main academic campus is in Duarte, Calif., in Los Angeles County. That's the best site for patients when their cancers are rare or advanced, optimal treatment isn't clear or they could participate in a clinical trial, said Dr. Harlan Levine, the chief executive of the City of Hope Medical Foundation. But the cancer center also owns a network of 14 community cancer clinics located in southern California for patients who can be effectively treated in that setting.
City of Hope participates in two plans that are offered on California's exchange, Blue Shield and Anthem and its physicians are in network for the exchange's Oscar health plan. But most people don't check access to cancer care when they shop for a plan. "Cancer is an 'infrequent purchase' from a marketing point of view," Levine said. In many cases, patients don't realize their lack of access until after their diagnosis, when it may be too late.
 Repealing Obamcare affects everyone
Cancer centers may try to work with patients to enable their treatment. "We understand that each patient has a unique financial situation and we work with our patients, especially those in active treatment, to ensure they receive the care needed and that their treatment is uninterrupted," said Ruth Landé, senior vice president for patient revenues at Memorial Sloan Kettering. "We have Patient Financial Services representatives available to assist patients who do not have health insurance or whose insurance may not cover all charges."
Patients who believe that it's critical to be treated at a cancer center that's not in their insurance network have some recourse.
When people receive a cancer diagnosis, it's "overwhelming," said Anna Howard, a principal for policy development at the American Cancer Society's Cancer Action Network. "You may not be aware of the fact that if your insurance plan says you don't have coverage at a cancer center you can file an appeal."
Appealing the insurer's decision doesn't guarantee success, however. "Anecdotally, we hear that it depends on the specific individual and type of cancer," Howard said.
Kaiser Health News is national health policy news service that is part of the nonpartisan Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation.
2. Government vs. Google: The U.S. Department of Labor has filed a lawsuit against Google (GOOGL, Tech30) to get it to turn over employee compensation data.
The data request is part of a routine audit into Google's equal opportunity hiring practices, which is required because of the company's role as a federal contractor. According to the lawsuit, Google has repeatedly refused to provide employee details.
Google responded by criticizing the data requests as "overbroad in scope."
This tussle could be bad for Google's business because the Labor Department is now requesting that a judge order all of Google's federal contracts canceled unless it complies with the request.
3. Corona on tap: Constellation Brands (STZ), the maker of Corona and other alcoholic drinks, is among the large companies reporting quarterly numbers on Thursday morning.
Walgreens Boots Alliance (WBA) and Monsanto (MON) are also scheduled to hit the earnings stage before the opening bell.
Before the Bell newsletter: Key market news. In your inbox. Subscribe now!
4. Economics: The ADP monthly report on U.S. employment is due at 8:15 a.m. ET. The December job creation numbers serve as a preview ahead of Friday's more closely-watched jobs report from the federal government.
Traders are also keen to see the latest U.S. reports on natural gas and crude oil inventories, which come out at 10:30 a.m. and 11 a.m., respectively.
5. Global market overview: Markets are muddling along right now.
U.S. stock futures are looking a bit weak.
Trading in European markets is muted. Asian markets are closing the day with mixed results.
This comes after the Dow Jones industrial average, S&P 500 and Nasdaq all rallied on Wednesday. Each index is within spitting distance of all-time highs set in December.
Download CNN MoneyStream for up-to-the-minute market data and news
6. Coming this week:
Thursday - Boeing's (BA) 2016 commercial plane order report Friday - Release of U.S. jobs report for December
A few stores have already been shuttered, but 63 will close down between now and mid-2017, leaving about 660 U.S. stores left open. The closings are among the 100 stores Macy's said last August that it intends to shutter.
The expected savings from these cuts will be invested in the company's digital business as well as marketing efforts including Bluemercury, Macy's Backstage and China, Macy's said.
Mark Cohen, a professor at Columbia Business School, said it's not the last time Macy's will make this type of announcement.
 JCPenney, Kohl's, Macy's and Sears sued over misleading prices
"It's a very hard day for the folks involved obviously, but I would also say it's inevitable," Cohen said. "And there's definitely more to come."
He said that Macy's -- and its competitors in the brick-and-mortar retail industry -- have been "unwilling to fully acknowledge the reality of their business performance," and he expects job cuts and store closures to be an ongoing trend in 2017.
An earnings report posted by Kohls (KSS) Wednesday followed the trend. The company posted a disappointing holiday sales season and lowered its earnings guidance for the 2016 fiscal year. Its stock dipped more than 7% during extended trading hours.
Projections for the year had speculated that the six-year streak of sales increases might end in 2016. But thanks to year-end incentives, automakers reported figures that beat expectations.
Back in 2009, massive job losses and tight credit sent car sales plunging to only 10.4 million. General Motors  (GM)and Chrysler Group declared bankruptcy.
But since then sales have climbed steadily every year.
 Best cars for the money
Automakers reported strong sales nearly across the board for December 2016. Sales were up about 3% from last year, due in part to increased truck sales.
General Motors (GM), Toyota (TM) and Ford (F) all had increased sales over last December. A big exception was Fiat Chrysler (FCAU), which was down 10%.
Volkswagen AG, which was hit with an emissions cheating scandal in 2015 that halted diesel sales, had a 20% increase in sales over last December.
Michelle Krebs, a senior analyst with AutoTrader, cautioned against reading too much into VW's increase.
"VW sales last December were down so much," Krebs said. "VW still has a long road back."
Sales in 2016 held even better news for Audi (AUDVF), Infiniti, Honda (HMC), Porsche (POAHF) and Jaguar Land Rover -- they all reported record sales figures for the year.
 Ford Mustang hyrbid promises V8 power
In more good news for the auto industry, the price of new cars was higher than ever.
Kelley Blue Book estimates that the average sales price reached an all-time record high of $35,309 in December 2016.
Low gas prices have reignited Americans' desire to buy SUVs and pickups, which are typically sold at a higher price than sedans. Millennials have also contributed to sales of small and mid-sized utility vehicles as they've aged and have begun having families.
And with all the buying comes borrowing. Balances on car loans topped $1.1 trillion and the terms of loans have stretched out. Krebs said the average is now 68 months.
 Volvo outsold in Sweden for first time since 1962
Looking ahead to 2017, there are still lots of uncertainties, especially on the political front, according to Krebs.
She said there are also lots of leased vehicles that will be coming back onto the market and which could affect sales figures.
Current forecasts for 2017 range from 16.8 million to 17.3 million -- a drop from this year's total.
CNNMoney's Chris Isidore contributed to this report.
The ad campaign is focusing on Arizona and Nevada, two states that suffered a wave of foreclosures as a result of the subprime crisis.
"We need a treasury secretary who will help us, not himself," the ad said.
 California investigators wanted to sue Mnuchin bank
A Mnuchin spokesperson said the ad campaign demonstrates that "the far left is more focused on playing politics than working with the future administration to get things done for the American people."
"OneWest is an American success story, and Steven looks forward to telling it at his hearing before the Senate Finance Committee," the spokesperson said.
It's clear that the foreclosure practices of OneWest continue to haunt Mnuchin. An internal memo obtained this week by CNN shows that California investigators wanted to file a lawsuit in 2013 against OneWest for misconduct during foreclosures.
The memo and draft civil complaint, first reported on by The Intercept, accused OneWest of backdating thousands of documents, violating rules for waiting periods and tampering with foreclosure auctions beginning in 2009.
Mnuchin's spokesperson told CNN the memo and complaint were meritless and belong "in the garbage."
 Mnuchin has a 'widow foreclosure' problem
The Allied Progress ad also alleged Mnuchin's bank "discriminated against Latinos." The ad cited a Fortune story that highlighted a redlining complaint filed by two fair housing advocacy groups alleging OneWest avoided putting bank branches in non-white neighborhoods and made fewer mortgages to minorities.
The Mnuchin spokesperson said the complaints are "grossly misleading" because they rely on lending figures for time periods after OneWest sold its primary mortgage business. The spokesperson added that in 2013, before the mortgage business was sold, OneWest originated more than $25 million in mortgage loans to African-American families and $44 million to Asian-American families.
--CNNMoney's Chris Isidore and David Fitzpatrick contributed to this report.
Ford employs 8,800 people in Mexico, according to the company and data from the Mexican government.
Fiat Chrysler has 12,800 workers and GM (GM) has 15,000 in Mexico.
This week, Ford announced it had canceled plans to build a $1.6 billion new factory in Mexico and would instead create 700 new jobs in Michigan. CEO Mark Fields called it a "vote of confidence" in Trump's economic vision for America.
 Ford cancels Mexico plant

Trump's next target: GM or Chrysler?
Trump thanked Ford and is already shifting his ire to another Michigan giant.
On Tuesday, Trump went after GM, tweeting: "General Motors is sending Mexican-made model of Chevy Cruze to U.S. car dealers-tax free across border. Make in U.S.A. or pay big border tax!"
All last year Trump threatened Ford with massive taxes -- as high as 40% -- on cars made in Mexico and sold in the U.S. even though experts don't think Trump has the legal power to put a tariff on one U.S. company.
The CEOs of America's top car companies say Trump only has half the story. Yes, they have all built plants in Mexico. But most of those factories work on smaller, cheaper cars that the American public doesn't even like to buy.
That appears to be backed up by the latest trade data. Auto exports from Mexico to the U.S. fell 14% this fall (September through November) compared to the year before, according to Panjiva, a company that tracks trade flows in and out of the U.S.
 Sprint will create 5,000 U.S. jobs
There are still far more U.S. auto workers
The workers in Mexico earn far less than the employees in the U.S.
"U.S. workers get $28 an hour versus about $5.50 in Mexico," says Bernard Swiecki, a senior automotive analyst at the Center for Automotive Research.
But the big car companies argue they are investing heavily in the U.S. too. This isn't a story of shutting down in the U.S. and moving to Mexico.
GM employs 97,000 people in the U.S. Chrysler employs 56,900 and Ford employs 85,000, according to company spokespeople.
"Since 2009, GM has invested more than $20 billion in our U.S. manufacturing and engineering operations," GM said in a statement to CNNMoney.
Fiat Chrysler, a company Trump hasn't gone after, actually has the worst track record of employing the largest share of Mexican workers compared to U.S. workers. Fiat Chrysler also increased its Mexico-to-U.S. exports by 139% from September through November, according to Panjiva calculations based on Mexican government data.
Overall, car and truck sales have been booming in the U.S. in recent years. It looks almost certain that 2016 will set another new record for sales. That has helped fuel growth in factories and hires across North America.
American car companies are also not alone in shifting some production to Mexico. Foreign car makers Nissan and VW also both employ 15,000 or more workers in Mexico, according to Mexico's economic ministry.

 Fed raises rates for the first time in 2016
The December meeting was the first time Fed officials had started to incorporate Trump's policies into its outlook.
The Fed raised rates at the end of that meeting, its second rate hike in nearly a decade.
Yellen called the latest rate hike a "reflection of confidence" in the Fed's view of the economy's progress and where it's going.
Some Fed officials see President-elect Donald Trump's economic plans as having the potential boost to the economy. Trump plans to lower corporate taxes and ramp up spending on infrastructure -- moves that could improve economic growth.
For instance, Biogen (BIIB) jacked up the price on three different multiple sclerosis treatments -- Tecfidera, Avonex and Plegridy -- by 8%, according to Raymond James.
Prices for Ampyra, another treatment for patients with MS, have gone up by 9.5%, Acorda Therapeutics (ACOR) confirmed to CNNMoney. Likewise, Teva Pharmaceutical (TEVA) said it has boosted the price of relapsing MS treatment Copaxone by nearly 8%.
It's not just MS drugs that are getting pricier. Arthritis treatment Orencia is 6% more expensive this year, according to manufacturer Bristol-Myers Squibb (BMY).
AMAG Pharmaceuticals (AMAG) just enacted a 4% price hike on kidney disease treatment Feraheme and AstraZeneca (AZN) raised the price on ovarian cancer drug Lynparza by 5%, according to Raymond James.
The price increases are a sign that it's business as usual in the drug industry. That's despite the December threat from Trump. At that time an ETF that tracks biotech stocks (IBB) dropped more than 4% on the day of Trump's comments to Time.
"Either investor fear is overblown or management teams have a tin ear," Christopher Raymond, an analyst at Raymond James, wrote in a report on Tuesday.
 Trump warns Wall Street over drug prices
Raymond said he suspects investor concern about crackdowns is exaggerated. He pointed to how "real reform" of drug pricing must include changes to the complex payment structure along with market-based reforms designed to introduce competition.
Still, Raymond said, "We don't rule out more public shamings of some of the more egregious examples" of price hikes.
Since being elected, Trump has used his Twitter account to call out companies for other issues, mostly over shipping jobs overseas or expensive military contracts. Just this week, the president-elect warned General Motors (GM) to make its Chevrolet Cruze in the U.S. or face a big tax.
Several drug makers that raised prices this week defended their actions.
Acorda told CNNMoney that Ampyra is the company's "only meaningful product on the market" and noted that 40% of the MS drug sales are invested back into R&D. Acorda also noted that it's not profitable and is working on treatments for Parkinson's and migraines.
"Our goal is to work constructively with Congress and the Administration to ensure that people retain their access to the medicines, healthcare and healthcare insurance they need," Acorda said in a statement.
Teva noted that Copaxone has proven to be an effective and safe treatment for relapsing forms of MS.
"We remain committed to ensuring the price of Copaxone reflects the clinical utility of the drug," Teva said.
Biogen, AMAG Pharmaceuticals and AstraZeneca did not respond to requests for comment.
 Fully repealing Obamacare will cost $350 billion
Drug prices have become a hot issue. This past summer, for instance, there was a national outrage of a 400% surge in the price of lifesaving allergy treatment EpiPen.
Before EpiPen, there was a firestorm of controversy over the 5,000% overnight increase in the price of Daraprim, the AIDS drug acquired by a company run by the notorious Martin Shkreli.
While Hillary Clinton was more outspoken on the issue than Trump, the president-elect did call for legislation during the campaign that would allow for importing "cheaper" drugs from overseas.
"Congress will need the courage to step away from the special interests and do what is right for America," Trump's campaign website said.
Bank of America (BAC), Citigroup (C), Morgan Stanley (MS) and even scandal ridden Wells Fargo (WFC) have all shot up about 2% so far in 2017.
So can the rally continue?
Investors are clearly hoping that Trump and the Republican-led Congress may be kinder to Wall Street than Obama was. If some of the more onerous regulations of Dodd-Frank are rolled back, that could be good news for many big banks.
Mike Bailey, director of research at FBB Capital Partners, said that even though the stocks have already shot up on expectations of some regulatory relief, Wall Street's profits forecasts may still be too low for many big banks.
"Earnings estimates are only starting to creep up. There is more room to run," Bailey said. He thinks that the likelihood of tax cuts from Trump and Congress will help.
 Goldman Sachs accounts for 24% of Dow's spectacular rebound
And unlike last year, when the Fed only raised rates once despite expectations at the start of 2016 for multiple increases, Bailey believes the Fed will hike rates two or three times this year. That would boost the profits that banks generate from loans.
Bailey said PNC and Wells Fargo are two of his firm's top holdings -- even though he concedes that Wells Fargo is in the "middle innings" of cleaning up the fake account mess that hit the company last year and led to its CEO stepping down.
Rob Lutts, chief investment officer of Cabot Wealth Management, also thinks that big banks could go even higher. He said investors shouldn't be too concerned that the stocks have moved up so quickly.
"The bigger issue is that banks have underperformed for a number of years. The strength of the rebound may be unusual, but not crazy. Is there still upside? Yes," he said.
Lutts notes that Bank of America and Citigroup still trade below their book value for example -- a key measure for banks. He thinks both banks don't deserve to be that cheap anymore now that the financial crisis of 2008 is well behind them.
Lutts added that all of the talk from Trump about boosting growth in the U.S. is another good sign for banks.
"There's a new sheriff in town. Investors shouldn't underestimate the importance of that. If just one out of 10 corporate boards in America decides to do more deals because of Trump's policies, that would have a real positive impact for banks," he said.
 Could Trump rally hit speed bump if rates rise too fast?
There's a flip side to this domestic focus -- and it may be a significant concern for larger banks.
Bailey said Trump's populist rhetoric could pose a problem for big banks that have major operations outside of the U.S. United Technologies (UTX), Ford (F) and GM (GM) have all been fodder for critical Trump tweets because of business they do in Mexico.
It's hard to imagine how Wall Street giants would continue to thrive if Trump wants them to ignore growth potential in emerging markets -- or if, even worse, Trump's policies lead to trade wars.
"Protectionism is a risk. Global banks would get squeezed," Bailey said.
Robert Joyce, an associate director at the Institute of Fiscal Studies, said there are many possible explanations for the early-career pay gap, including discrimination.
"We can rule out one explanation though: young women are now actually more highly educated than young men, so the wage difference is not due to education," he said.
 Mothers still lag behind in pay for years
There is some good news: The gap is gradually getting smaller.
Women born between 1981 and 2000 have salaries that are 5% lower on average, while women born between 1966 and 1980 were paid 9% less than men when they were in their 20s.
Amanda Goodall, a senior lecturer at Cass Business School in London, said progress has been made because today's young women are better equipped to successfully negotiate salaries than previous generations.
The starter salary gap is also somewhat smaller than many women expect. A recent study found that female U.K. students expect to make 14% less than their male peers in their first jobs.

 Women do ask for pay raises, they just don't get them
The bad news? Today's young women can still expect to be underpaid throughout their careers.
"Small hourly pay gaps quickly grow into large lifetime pay penalties that can leave women ... worse off over the course of their careers," said Laura Gardiner of the Resolution Foundation.
Having children still carries a sizable pay penalty.
"Training, progression and promotion are much harder to come by when working part time, which many women with children either choose to do or feel they have to because of high childcare costs," Gardiner added.
Navarro and Ross teamed up to write a paper last summer, where they argue that America can level the playing field of free trade and balance the country's budget.
"The Navarro-Ross paper is well beyond voodoo economics," Summers told Bloomberg Tuesday.
The Harvard professor, who served as treasury secretary under President Clinton and director of President Obama's National Economic Council, also added: "The arguments made are so far out of the mainstream of any kind of responsible economic thinking that they are the economic equivalent of creationism."
Voodoo economics generally refers to policy that is unrealistic, where there's increased levels of public spending accompanied with reduced taxes. President George H. W. Bush used the term voodoo economics to describe Reagonomics.
In the paper, the two trade leaders on Trump's team suggest these reforms:
 Trump and trade: What you need to know
1. Lower corporate taxes to encourage companies to bring cash back to America and invest in jobs 2. Cut government regulations by 10% (details weren't given on which regulations would be targeted) 3. Eliminate America's $500 billion trade deficit (by renegotiating deals with various countries) 4. Expand U.S. energy production (by allowing more drilling and more coal burning)
Summers, who is a Democrat, isn't buying that plan, particularly the notion that lowering corporate tax rates will make companies invest and create jobs in America. Summers argues that cash will only enrich investors, not workers.
"The reality is that cash that is brought home will be used to pay dividends, to buy back shares, to engage in mergers and acquisitions, to rearrange the financial chessboard, not to invest in large amounts of new capital," Summers said. "It is a chimera to suppose that there will be large increases in capital investment as a consequence of that repatriation."
--Heather Long contributed reporting to this article
"We need to undo many regulations which have stifled investment in American businesses, and restore oversight of the financial industry in a way that does not harm American workers," Trump said in a statement.
The appointment rankled some Democrats, particularly Senator Elizabeth Warren. She told CNNMoney in a statement that Trump's selection of Clayton is another sign that "his administration will put Wall Street first and working families last."
"Mr. Clayton's selection is great news if you happen to run a big bank or manage a hedge fund," Warren said, "but you're out of luck if you want to see tough rules on Wall Street and bankers held accountable when they break the law."
The SEC is responsible for rooting out financial crime such as fraud as well as ensuring capital markets are fair for all investors. "Robust accountability will be a hallmark of his tenure atop the SEC, and the financial security of the American people will be his top priority," the Trump statement said.
Clayton is currently a partner at the powerful law firm Sullivan & Cromwell and has advised on a slew of major deals, including the record-breaking Alibaba (BABA, Tech30) IPO and the sale of the NBA's Atlanta Hawks.
His law firm bio also notes that Clayton helped secure mortgage settlements on behalf of large financial institutions with the government.
 Elizabeth Warren watchdog under siege
It's not clear which specific banks Clayton defended. However, Sullivan & Cromwell's website said the firm represented Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan Chase, Barclays (BCS) and other banks against allegations that they fraudulently issued or underwrote hundreds of toxic mortgage deals prior to the subprime collapse. Sullivan & Cromwell similarly helped JPMorgan reach its $13 billion toxic mortgage settlement with the Department of Justice in 2013.
Clayton also has ties to Bear Stearns, the investment bank that collapsed during the financial crisis as its toxic loan portfolio spiraled out of control. He represented Bear in its fire sale to JPMorgan (JPM).
Additionally, Goldman Sachs (GS) hired Clayton to advise on the Wall Street firm's TARP bailout as well as the crucial $5 billion investment it received from Warren Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway (BRKA) during the crisis.
Clayton already has experience working with the SEC, albeit on the other side. In 2010, Clayton helped secure a $365 million bribery settlement with the SEC on behalf of Italian oil giant Eni (E).
If confirmed, Clayton said he wants the SEC to strike a balance between providing oversight and helping the economy.
"We will carefully monitor our financial sector, as we set policy that encourages American companies to do what they do best: create jobs," Clayton said.
 Scandal-ridden Wells Fargo wants less regulation
Clayton would replace Mary Jo White, who is stepping down on January 20 even though her term doesn't expire until June 2019. Some liberal critics, led by Senator Warren, have claimed White didn't do enough to prevent business from pouring cash into politics.
While White spent her tenure trying to implement a wave of rules coming from Dodd-Frank, Clayton could be charged with helping Trump carry out his pledge to "dismantle" the reform law.
Clayton beat out former federal prosecutor Debra Wong Yang for the SEC job. While Yang is a star corporate lawyer like Clayton, she earned a reputation for toughness as a prosecutor by taking down a violent drug-dealing gang and investigating financial fraud.
Democrats strongly criticized Trump's selection of Clayton. Senator Sherrod Brown, the ranking Democrat on the Senate Banking Committee, knocked Clayton as an "attorney who's spent his career helping Wall Street beat the rap."
Adam Green, co-founder of the Progressive Change Campaign Committee, compared Clayton's nomination to allowing the "fox guard the henhouse on Wall Street."
On the other hand, the Investment Adviser Association, which represents SEC-registered firms, praised Clayton as a "highly regarded, respected and accomplished" lawyer who has a "deep understanding" of complex transactions and regulations.
Jaret Seiberg, an analyst at Cowen & Co., called Trump's selection of Clayton a "conventional choice" for a Republican president given his background at a high-profile law firm.
"He almost is from central casting," Seiberg wrote in a note.
--CNNMoney's Cristina Alesci contributed to this report.
TransUnion and Equifax were also accused of selling credit scores that were different from the scores used by lenders for evaluating borrowers.
About 700,000 TransUnion customers will be paid restitution. The CFPB did not have a figure for Equifax.
 Your credit score isn't what you think
The practices have been going on since July 2011 at TransUnion and between July 2011 and March 2014 at Equifax, the CFPB said. The agency said the companies will have to truthfully represent the usefulness of their credit scores in the future.
A spokeswoman for Equifax told CNNMoney that the company "implemented changes addressing the CFPB's concerns" after the agency started investigating the company.
"While Equifax does not believe it has violated any laws and has not admitted any liability, Equifax determined it was in its best interest to resolve the matter with the CFPB," the company said in a statement.
A spokesman for TransUnion told CNNMoney that the company was cooperating with the CFPB but did not admit wrongdoing.
The restitution includes $13.9 million from TransUnion and $3.8 million from Equifax.
 Repealing Obamacare affects everyone
Here's the impact of repealing each (through 2027):
--Coverage provisions, which include the individual and employer mandates, subsidies and Medicaid expansion: Savings $1.55 trillion
--Taxes and fees levied on high-income Americans, insurers, providers and others, as well as the Cadillac tax on high-cost insurance plans: Cost $800 billion
--Medicare components, such as slowing the growth of provider rates and lowering payments to Medicare Advantage insurers: Cost $1.1 trillion
Getting rid of all three would blow a hole in the budget even before Republicans come up with a replacement plan, which will also need to be funded.
At this point, Congressional Republicans are focusing on repealing the coverage provisions, taxes and fees through a process known as budget reconciliation.
 Senate Republicans take first step to repeal Obamacare
Eliminating all the coverage provisions and taxes and fees immediately would save the federal government $750 billion, according to the committee. However, lawmakers are expected to delay ending the exchanges, subsidies and Medicaid expansion until they have a replacement plan in place, which could take two years or more. Keeping these going for two years would lower the expected savings to $550 billion.
Republicans have moved away from dismantling some of the Medicare components, which could turn repeal into a money-losing act for the federal government.
 What Obamacare could be replaced with under Trump
The savings matter since the Republicans need all the money they can get to pay for their replacement plan, which will likely include tax credits to help Americans who buy insurance in the individual market. Without a hefty cushion from the partial Obamacare repeal, lawmakers will either have to find the funds elsewhere in the budget or provide stingier credits -- which will make it harder for people to afford coverage.
Some health care policy experts are pressing lawmakers to delay repealing the taxes and fees.
"These tax cuts would make it much more difficult to achieve a sustainable replacement plan that provides meaningful coverage without increasing deficits," wrote Loren Adler and Paul Ginsburg in a Brookings analysis last month.
2. Tesla falls short: Tesla (TSLA) reported late on Tuesday afternoon that it fell short of its goal for 80,000 auto deliveries in 2016.
The electric car manufacturer delivered 76,230 cars in 2016.
That's still far more than the roughly 50,000 cars it delivered a year earlier.
Before the Bell newsletter: Key market news. In your inbox. Subscribe now!
3. ExxonMobil's 'conflict of interest' plan: ExxonMobil (XOM) and its former CEO Rex Tillerson have announced their plan to address concerns about the huge nest egg the oil giant has promised to Tillerson.
Tillerson, who's been nominated as secretary of state by President-elect Donald Trump, is due to receive more than 2 million Exxon shares -- worth more than $181 million at current prices -- over the next decade.
To tackle the ethical and legal problems raised by the massive payout, Exxon said late Tuesday that if Tillerson is confirmed for the high-ranking government job, it plans to put the value of the shares he would have received in an independently managed trust. The trust won't be allowed to invest in the oil company.
Federal law prohibits government employees from taking actions that could affect their personal stock holdings.
4. Fed focus: The U.S. Federal Reserve is scheduled to release the minutes from its important December meeting at 2 p.m. ET. That's the meeting where the Fed raised interest rates for only the second time in a decade.
Wall Street will be scrutinizing the minutes to see whether Fed members talked about the impact of Trump's stimulus plans on future rate hikes.
5. Global market overview: U.S. stock futures are holding steady, indicating that markets will continue trading close to the record-setting levels hit in late 2016.
European markets are looking a bit weak in early trading. Most Asian markets ended the day with gains.
This follows some solid performance in the U.S. on Tuesday. The Dow Jones industrial average jumped 0.6%, while both the S&P 500 and Nasdaq surged 0.9%.
Xerox (XRX) was the best performer across all these indexes, surging 20% after announcing it had completed its separation from Conduent Incorporated (CNDTWI).
Download CNN MoneyStream for up-to-the-minute market data and news
6. Coming this week:
Wednesday - Fed releases notes on its December meeting, Auto manufacturers report December sales Thursday - Boeing's (BA) 2016 commercial plane order report Friday - Release of U.S. jobs report for December
Tillerson, 64, has also agreed with the State Department to sell the more than 600,000 Exxon shares he owns at the moment, the company said. They're worth more than $54 million at today's prices.
 Exxon's Tillerson retiring to prep for Senate confirmation
Richard Painter, a former ethics lawyer for President George W. Bush, said the measures appeared to satisfy concerns he had expressed previously about Tillerson's financial ties to Exxon.
"He should convince President-elect Trump to come up with a similar arrangement to divest his conflicts of interest," Painter said, comparing Tillerson's deal to what was done for former Goldman Sachs CEO Hank Paulson when he became treasury secretary in 2006.
Tillerson's arrangement, which Exxon says was drawn up in consultation with federal ethics regulators, involves giving up various payouts and perks, according to the company's statement.
He'll no longer be entitled to more than $4.1 million in cash bonuses that he was set to receive over the next three years -- or medical, dental and other benefits from Exxon. He retired as the oil company's CEO on Saturday after working there for more than four decades.
As America's chief diplomat, Tillerson could have a tremendous impact on Exxon's business, from negotiations over a climate change treaty and sanctions on Russia to the nuclear deal with Iran and general geopolitical unrest in the Middle East.

Exxon said that if Tillerson returns to work in the oil and gas industry during the 10-year payout period from the trust, he would forfeit the funds.
"The money would be distributed to one or more charities involved in fighting poverty or disease in the developing world," the company said. "Neither Tillerson nor ExxonMobil would have any control over the selection of the charities."
Painter described that part of the plan as "an added benefit" that will make it "highly unlikely" that Tillerson will go back into the oil industry.
"Most public servants have no restrictions on where they can work after government ... and we have to worry about them trying to help future employers," he said, pointing to Treasury Department officials who go back to Wall Street.
 The problem with Rex Tillerson's nine-figure nest egg
Over all, the arrangement would cost Tillerson about $7 million in compensation he would have received, Exxon said.
As with all political appointees who sell assets that may pose conflicts of interest, Tillerson would be allowed to defer any capital gains tax he owes on the more than 600,000 Exxon shares he's agreed to sell so long as he reinvests the proceeds within 60 days into so-called "permitted property." That basically means U.S. Treasury securities and diversified mutual funds.
It's not immediately clear, however, what the tax implications are for Tillerson from Exxon agreeing to set up the trust for the value of the more than 2 million shares he'd otherwise have coming to him over the next 10 years.
-- Jeanne Sahadi and Chris Isidore contributed to this report.
President Obama slapped a stiff 35% tariff on Chinese tires in 2009 after American companies complained about unfair competition. They said China was flooding America with tires at low prices making it tough for U.S. companies to compete. The tire tariff gradually waned, and finally ended in 2012.
The tariff saved 1,200 U.S. tire jobs, which had been in sharp decline. And U.S. tire production rose after a major decline.
"Over a thousand Americans are working today because we stopped a surge in Chinese tires," Obama said in his 2012 State of the Union address.
 Trump and trade: What you need to know
But a study from the Peterson Institute of International Economics found that the tariffs cost Americans in many other ways.
Americans paid more for tires. Some Chinese-made tires cost as much as 26% more -- rising on average to $39 per tire, from about $31. And U.S. tire makers, facing less competition from China, also raised prices on American-made tires 3.2%.
According to Peterson's model, higher prices from the tire tariff cost Americans an extra $1.1 billion, which translated to an estimated 3,731 retail jobs lost.
Plus, China fought back by imposing penalties on U.S. shipments of chicken parts. The Peterson study estimates that China's retaliation cost American chicken producers $1 billion in sales.
"Tire safeguards did not change Chinese policies in a helpful way, nor did they boost U.S. employment," wrote Gary Hufbauer, a trade expert at Peterson, who authored the report.
Indeed, the tariffs didn't bring the tire-making jobs back to previous levels -- a similar trend that's played out for the rest of U.S. manufacturing. But they did help to stem the job losses.
In 2008, there were about 60,000 American workers making tires. Now, there are about 55,000. That's better than the low point reached in 2010 but not back to pre-tariff levels.
 Trump's 35% tariff on companies: Easier said than done
An Obama administration official, who requested anonymity, disputed some of the calculations and assumptions in the Peterson study. For instance, the official claimed tire prices did not go up by as much as the study claims.
Hufbauer said no one until now had contested any of his analysis in the four years since it was published. He noted that the administration official didn't provide an alternative estimate for price changes.
Republican presidential nominee Mitt Romney criticized Obama for the tariffs in his 2010 book "No Apology."
"President Obama's action to defend American tire companies from foreign competition may make good politics by repaying unions for their support of his campaign, but it is decidedly bad for the nation and our workers," Romney said.
U.S. tire makers still applaud Obama's tariffs. Morry Taylor, CEO of Titan International, a U.S.-based tire company, is one of them.
"He did what he should have done and he should have done more of it," says Taylor, who voted for Trump. His company has plants in Ohio, Wisconsin and Illinois (they also have operations in Brazil and Russia).
 3 ways Trump can go after China and Mexico
Taylor argues that if the tariffs weren't put in place he might not have any business today to speak of.
By 2012, Taylor still had 1,800 tire-making workers, about the same amount as before the tariffs. Today, however, his firm only has a little more than 900 workers.
His problem today is what he describes as unfair competition from India, where firms make cheap tires and sell in the U.S. at prices he can't afford to sell at. He hopes Trump considers higher tariffs on tires, saying it would save jobs.
To be clear, Obama wasn't trying to "bring back jobs" so much as protect the ones already in America, which he accomplished.
Trump wants to bring manufacturing jobs back from other countries. Some trade experts believe that would be difficult task, since many of jobs overseas are low-skill positions and many U.S. manufacturing firms now want highly skilled employees.
In any case, U.S. tire production recovered but didn't surge. Instead, U.S. tire imports from all other countries excluding China rose dramatically, Hufbauer found. In other words, the Chinese tire jobs didn't come to the U.S. -- they went to the next cheapest countries.
In the end, Hufbauer argues the tariffs didn't make a difference.
"The best thing about the tire tariffs is that they expire," Hufbauer wrote in 2012.
An Indonesia official told reporters in Jakarta on Tuesday that the country will ban JPMorgan from being hired as a primary dealer and an underwriter of its government debt, according to several news reports. Indonesia also indicated JPMorgan will no longer serve as a bank that receives tax payments to the government.
The Southeast Asian nation explained the decision to punish JPMorgan by pointing directly to the November research report, which it criticized as not "accurate or credible."
"The institutions with big names have very high responsibility in creating positive psychology instead of doing [something] misleading," said Sri Mulyani, Indonesia's finance minister, according to The Wall Street Journal.
JPMorgan (JPM), which has substantial business interests in Indonesia, said it is working with the country's Ministry of Finance to "resolve the matter," and that its business there "continues to operate as usual."
 Stocks storm into 2017 as Trump rally resumes
JPMorgan's ties to Indonesia go back a long way. The bank opened its first branch in Indonesia under the Chase Manhattan brand in 1968. Since 2012, JPMorgan has served as an underwriter on nearly $14 billion worth of Indonesian government bond sales, including $3.4 billion last year, according to Dealogic.
Indonesia's retaliation against JPMorgan appears to be aimed at stifling criticism, even from firms that have a duty to provide unbiased research to their clients.
"It makes me uncomfortable when I see a government trying to influence independent analysts," said Win Thin, head of emerging market currency strategy at investment bank Brown Brothers Harriman.
"It's pretty thin skinned for Indonesia to do that and a little silly. It shows you how sensitive policymakers can be," he said.
The November 13 research report from JPMorgan lowered the bank's rating on Indonesia to "underweight" from "overweight."
"There are losers from Trumponomics," the report warned.
 Goldman Sachs accounts for 24% of Dow's Trump rally
Ironically, JPMorgan's assessment of Indonesia's economy was actually quite positive, saying it is "improving," and that investors will "get a better buying opportunity."
The analysts said the downgrade was caused by a combination of the Trump election and rising U.S. rates, which tend to hurt emerging markets.
Like other emerging markets, Indonesia did take a hit after Trump's victory. The MSCI Indonesia index plunged as much as 12% after the U.S. election.
However, Indonesian stocks have since rebounded and the stock market is now just 5% below its Election Day level. Overall, the Indonesian market rose 12% last year, outperforming emerging markets broadly.
"I'm not sure why Indonesia is so nervous. It's actually held up pretty well," said Thin.
The $700 million investment will go to the Flat Rock, Michigan plant to produce more electric and self-driving cars. Ford believes electrified vehicles will outsell gas-powered vehicles within the next 15 years.
Ford is planning to roll out seven new electric vehicles in the next five years, including a Mustang Hybrid.
This is a major U-turn for Ford. Trump repeatedly slammed Ford on the campaign trail for shipping U.S. jobs to Mexico (a claim the company said was wrong). The president-elect has kept up the pressure. Just hours before the Ford announcement, Trump criticized GM (GM) for producing cars in Mexico. All of the big car manufacturers currently have some production in Mexico.
Trump tweeted "thank you" to Ford Wednesday and said, "This is just the beginning - much more to follow."

 Sprint will create 5,000 U.S. jobs
A big U-turn for Ford
Last year, Ford announced it would invest $1.6 billion in Mexico to transfer production of the Ford Focus from Michigan to Mexico to save costs. Now the Focus will be built at an existing plant in Hermosillo, Mexico, and Ford will instead expand its plant in Michigan.
Trump threatened to slap a 35% tariff on Ford vehicles made in Mexico and sold in the U.S., although experts say it is not possible for Trump do that to a single U.S. company.
The president-elect reiterated that threat again to GM Tuesday, tweeting, "Make in U.S.A. or pay big border tax!"
Ford's CEO tried to walk a delicate line on how much Trump influenced this major change in the company's plans. He praised Trump for his vows to cut taxes and scale back regulations on businesses, but stressed Ford's decision was "done independently" of the president.
"This does make a heck of a lot of sense for business reasons. Political favor is an advantageous byproduct," says Bernard Swiecki, senior automotive analyst at the Center for Automotive Research in Michigan.
Ford is saving money by investing only $700 million instead of the $1.6 billion it originally planned.
After record years of U.S. car sales, there are signs of a slowdown. Small cars have been especially lousy sellers lately, which is why Ford is still moving production to Mexico. U.S. car workers make an average of $28 an hour, Swiecki says. In Mexico, workers average about $5.50 an hour.
 Car sales: The party may be over
Ford workers cheer
Trump won a lot of support from union workers for his tough talk on stopping jobs from going abroad and renegotiating NAFTA. The United Auto Workers union that represents Ford workers was "thrilled" with Ford's new plans. So were employees at the Flat Rock plant.
"It's great news. Great for our future here, especially the new hires," Chris Romano, a Ford factory worker in Flat Rock, told CNN.
Workers at the plant make $20 to $30 an hour, Romano said. He believes it was a "good call" by Trump to pressure companies to keep jobs in the U.S.
The Mexican government said it "regrets" Ford's decision and stressed that jobs created in Mexico are not necessarily a loss for the U.S.
"Jobs created in Mexico have contributed to maintaining manufacturing jobs in the United States, which would otherwise have disappeared to Asian competition," the Mexican government said in a statement Tuesday.
Trump taking credit for jobs
Ford currently employs 85,000 Americans, up 28,000, or nearly 50%, from five years ago. In Mexico, Ford employs 8,800.
The automaker fought back against Trump's rhetoric on the campaign trail, saying he had his facts wrong and that the company never planned to cut any U.S. jobs. In October, Bill Ford called Trump's criticism of the automaker founded by his great-grandfather "infuriating." Now the company is softening its tone.
Ford stock jumped over 3% after the announcement.
Trump adviser Kellyanne Conway tweeted out the Ford news with just one comment: "#AmericaFirst." Trump has been taking credit for a number of announcements companies like Carrier and Sprint have made in recent weeks to keep jobs in the U.S. or create new ones.
So far, commitments of 51,500 jobs have been made by Carrier (800 jobs), Ford (700 jobs) and SoftBank (50,000 jobs, which includes the 5,000 at Sprint), although it's controversial how much of a role Trump played.
The U.S. has been averaging about 125,000 private sector job gains a month for the past year under President Obama.
"The New Year has started with a bang," Fawad Razaqzada, technical analyst at FOREX.com, wrote in a note.
 Dow finishes wild 2016 with 13% gain
After going nearly straight up after the election, the markets paused during the final two weeks of 2016. The Dow seemed to run into a wall as it approached 20,000, though it did end the wild year with a strong 13% gain.
Investors remain encouraged by Trump's promises to slash taxes, roll back regulation and unleash a wave of infrastructure spending. Wall Street is betting these stimulus plans will help American businesses and translate to higher stock prices.
Peter Boockvar, chief market analyst at The Lindsey Group, cited Trump's deregulation efforts as a bullish force for stocks in 2017.
"The biggest beneficiary may be small businesses who've experienced death by a thousand regulatory cuts over the past 8 years," Boockvar wrote.
The positive start to 2017 stands in stark contrast with last year. The Dow plummeted 1,079 points in the first week of 2016 -- the worst five-day start to a year on record -- over fears about the crash in oil prices and China's economic slowdown.

Flash forward 12 months and both of those concerns have reversed. Global stocks rallied overnight after a closely-watched manufacturing index in China showed the fastest rate of improvement since January 2013.
Likewise, oil prices initially popped 2.5% on Tuesday to $55 a barrel -- hitting the highest level in a year and a half. That rally fizzled and crude ended the day down by more than 2%.
Still, optimism continues to abound in the oil patch. Oil bulls are hoping OPEC's agreement to limit oil production will ease the epic glut that caused prices to plunge two years ago.
Not even another Trump threat against a prominent American business could slow stocks down.
General Motors (GM) shares actually rose 1% on Tuesday after Trump warned the auto maker to make its Chevrolet Cruze in the U.S. or face a heavy tax. GM responded by stressing that the sedan model of the Cruze is manufactured in Ohio, while the hatchback version sold mostly overseas is made in Mexico.
 Biggest threats to the Trump rally
Despite the bullish action in 2017's first trading day, analysts warn the Trump rally does face several threats in the coming months.
Trump's stance on trade was the No. 1 concern cited by market strategists surveyed by CNNMoney. The fear is that Trump's anti-trade campaign talk could translate into protectionist policies that hurt the economy.
Another source of concern: the Trump rally has made U.S. stocks more expensive. And if Trump's stimulus agenda faces any setbacks in Congress, it could be met with big disappointment on Wall Street.
"For now, investors may be wise to curb their enthusiasm until we have stronger evidence that Washington will actually implement a pro-growth agenda," David Kelly, chief global strategist at JPMorgan Funds, wrote in a note.
"I don't want to say the party is over, but we've been on an historic run, and all good things must come to an end," said Tim Fleming, analyst with Kelley Blue Book. "We're not expecting sales to fall off a cliff, but we are looking for a return to more natural demand."
Fleming and other analysts say sales this year have been propped up by automakers offering cash-back deals, leases and longer-term car loans.
"It's taking a lot more effort in the way of incentives and promotions to make those sales," said Michelle Krebs, senior analyst with AutoTrader.
 Best loved new cars of 2016
The boom in auto sales has been driven by a number of other factors, including easier credit for buyers and sustained improvement in the job market.
Record highs in the stock market and higher home values, which increase household wealth, also bring buyers into showrooms, as do lower gas prices, even if history shows the savings don't necessarily last.
But automakers could soon face a big challenge in the form of higher costs. President-elect Donald Trump is threatening to slap a tariff on cars and parts made in other countries. In a tweet Tuesday morning, he specifically called out General Motors, which sells some versions of the Chevrolet Cruze in the U.S. that are made in Mexico.
"Make in U.S.A.or pay big border tax!" he tweeted.
If tariffs are introduced they would hit every automaker, but there's no way to know how hard.
"It all depends on if they happen, how they happen and when they happen," Krebs said. "There are so many unknowns."
 Will Donald Trump's Mexican tariffs kill the small car?
There is also growing concern about rising default rates on car loans, particularly among less creditworthy buyers. If lenders pull back, that will hurt car sales.
Car prices are already at record levels. That is partly because buyers are shifting from less expensive cars to crossovers, SUVs and trucks, and partly because of demand for the latest safety and tech features, such as automatic braking and internet.
Higher prices and strong sales have been a boon for an industry that suffered through bankruptcies, bailouts and the deaths of some stories brands as recently as 2009. U.S. sales bottomed out that year at 10.4 million.
"Over the last few years, the industry has outperformed the rest of the economy," Fleming said.
 Great looking cars on a budget
Even if the streak of rising sales ends at six years, that will be the longest period of sustained growth since the dawn of the automotive age in the 1920s, said Eric Lyman, chief analyst at the car buying service TrueCar.
And he expects strong sales and profits to continue for at least the next few years, even if sales are no longer rising.
"We're expecting the remainder of decade to see annual sales of 17.1 million to 17.4 million," he said. "By any historical context this is amazing for the industry."
In November, GM sold about 16,400 Cruzes in the United States. About 1,600 of those were Mexican-made hatchbacks.
The company employs about 100,000 people in the U.S. and 15,000 in Mexico. In December, Trump named GM's CEO, Mary Barra, to a panel on job creation.
GM is far from the only automotive manufacturer that produces across the border: Ford (F), Honda (HMC), Toyota (TM) and Volkswagen (VLKAF) also make cars in Mexico and sell in the United States.
Trump has repeatedly told automakers that he intends to impose a 35% tax on cars they build in Mexico for the U.S. market. Trump could not impose a tariff on an individual company solely for manufacturing products overseas and selling in the United States.
 Trump's 35% Mexico tax would cost Ford billions and hurt Americans
Before the election, he directed similar warnings toward Ford, which employs 8,800 people in Mexico, or about one-tenth of the jobs it has stateside.
Large tariffs would mean that Americans would pay more. When President Ronald Reagan put a quota on the number of cars Japan could ship to the United States, American carmakers hiked prices by $1,000 on average, knowing they would face less foreign competition.
Any tariff would also not likely be limited to American automakers like GM or Ford. If that were the case, those cars would be more expensive than others who also produce in Mexico and sell here, like Honda, Toyota and Volkswagen.
Ford and GM would then be left open to losing in their home market to foreign competitors -- a consequence experts say probably wouldn't bode well for Trump.
--CNNMoney's Patrick Gillespie contributed to this story.
The government's official manufacturing index was also positive, but not as upbeat as the Caixin report.
2. Oil reaches fresh high: Crude oil futures have hit their highest level in 18 months as traders express confidence that major oil producing nations -- led by OPEC -- will follow through on promises to cut production.
Crude is currently trading around $54.30 per barrel.
"The black gold is trading higher as the data from OPEC shows that the supply cut is going to be respected by OPEC and non-OPEC members," said Naeem Aslam, chief analyst at Think Markets in London.
Before the Bell newsletter: Key market news. In your inbox. Subscribe now!
3. Techies converge in Las Vegas: The annual Consumer Electronics Show -- better known as CES -- opens in Las Vegas around 8 p.m. ET.
Prepare for tech giants and automakers to unveil a range of new products designed to shock and amaze customers. The conference attracted nearly 180,000 visitors in 2016.
4. Stock market movers -- Xerox & Michael Kors: Shares in Xerox (XRX) look set to surge at the open based on premarket trading data.
Michael Kors (KORS) shares look set to dip a bit when trading begins. Shares in the company have been on a steady decline since early December.
Download CNN MoneyStream for up-to-the-minute market data and news
5. Coming this week:
Tuesday - 115th U.S. Congress is sworn in; Consumer Electronics Show opens in Las Vegas; ISM manufacturing report Wednesday - Fed releases notes on its December meeting, Auto manufacturers report December sales Thursday - Boeing's (BA) 2016 commercial plane order report Friday - Release of U.S. jobs report for December
Instead, Republican lawmakers are expected to gut key provisions in the law using the budget reconciliation process. This process is limited to provisions that affect federal revenues and spending and requires only a simple majority to pass. It would enable Congress to repeal the Obamacare mandates that individuals have coverage and that companies with 50 or more employees provide workers with affordable insurance. Also, it can do away with the federal subsidies, eliminate funding for Medicaid expansion and cancel a multitude of Obamacare-related taxes.
Lawmakers are hoping to start the budget reconciliation process soon after they return to work Tuesday, though it may take a couple of months -- or potentially longer -- before they can get the repeal bill to Trump.
 GOP timetable for getting Obamacare repeal to Trump is ambitious
And it may take even longer to say goodbye to these Obamacare provisions. Since Republican lawmakers don't have a replacement plan ready, they are expected to delay the repeal from taking effect for at least two years.
The so-called "repeal and delay" tactic, however, is not sitting well with some in Congress, particularly a few top GOP senators. Senator Lamar Alexander, who chairs the health committee, said if the process is rushed, harm may be done or mistakes made. These senators would like to wait until a more solid replacement plan is in hand so it's possible they will try to slow down the reconciliation process.
 Obamacare chaos: Insurers may flee before new plan is put in place
The Obama administration and Democratic lawmakers are also promising to make things difficult. They are touting the fact that a record number of people have signed up for coverage so far. And they are emphasizing how much Obamacare means to Americans, asking them to share their stories using the hashtag #CoverageMatters. Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi is requesting that other congressional members hold events in mid-January, highlighting the risks of Republicans' plans for Obamacare and Medicare.
Also, Democrats and insurers are warning that any delay in replacing Obamacare could throw the individual insurance market into chaos for 2018. Insurers don't have time to wait around and see if they like what Republicans propose. They must submit their initial rate filings for 2018 to state regulators in May and sign contracts by September.
 Health care chief: Obamacare repeal will be 'chaos'
Republicans, however, may need more time than that to replace Obamacare. Maintaining coverage for those with pre-existing conditions and for low-income Americans could prove especially vexing since these groups are often costly to insure.
Only one repeal-and-replace bill has ever made it to the desk of President Obama, who vetoed it in early 2016. That bill would have increased the number of uninsured by 22 million, according to an analysis by the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office.
However, the legislation provides a framework for how Republican lawmakers -- particularly House Speaker Paul Ryan and House Budget Committee Chair Tom Price, who is Trump's pick for health secretary -- would replace Obamacare.
Here's what a Republican plan to replace Obamacare may look like:
Tax credits instead of subsidies: Instead of providing federal subsidies to help people afford their premiums, Republicans would give refundable tax credits to those who buy policies in the individual market.
Republicans would adjust the credit by age, instead of income, as Obamacare does. Ryan, in his "A Better Way" plan, does not provide details. But Price's "Empowering Patients First Act" lays out how much people would receive, ranging from $1,200 for those ages 18 to 35 to $3,000 for those age 50 and up.
The Republican plan would help more middle class Americans, who make too much to qualify for Obamacare subsidies. But the tax credits could prove much less generous for many lower- and moderate-income Obamacare enrollees who do receive the subsidies, which can lower the cost of coverage to just under 10% of their annual income.
 Repealing Obamacare affects everyone
High-risk pools for the sick: Republicans would set up a two-track system to cover people with pre-existing conditions: one for those who maintain continuous coverage and one for those who don't.
Those who are currently covered could not be dropped from their plans or be prevented from renewing them because they are sick. And insurers can't charge them higher premiums.
For those with a pre-existing condition who haven't maintained continuous coverage, the GOP would bring back state-based high-risk pools, which were largely shut down after the Obamacare exchanges became operational in 2014.
Ryan's plan would funnel $25 billion over 10 years to the pools, while Price's would provide $1 billion annually over three years.
This falls far short of what some experts say is needed. Covering the majority of uninsured Americans with pre-existing conditions through a national high risk pool would cost an estimated $178 billion a year, according to a 2014 Commonwealth Fund report.
 How Trump may cover Americans with pre-existing conditions
Medicaid block grants: Republicans would limit how much the federal government spends on the health insurance program for the poor. Most plans call for providing states with a fixed amount of money under a block grant program or a set grant per enrollee, known as a per capita grant.
The GOP would also encourage states to design plans that fit their needs. More would be allowed to charge premiums or co-payments or adopt work requirements, for instance.
Ryan's plan calls for freezing the number of states that have expanded Medicaid under Obamacare and would limit the funding for covering low-income adults. Price does not address Medicaid in his proposal beyond repealing expansion.
Under Obamacare, states can opt to expand their Medicaid programs to cover all low-income adults up to 138% of the poverty level, or about $16,400 for an individual. The federal government covered 100% of the expansion population's costs from the provision's debut in 2014 through 2016. That rate will gradually decrease to 90% by 2020. So far, 31 states plus the District of Columbia have signed on.
 Major changes for Medicaid coming under Trump and the GOP
Bolstering Health Savings Accounts: Health Savings Accounts are a favorite policy tool of Republicans. Trump, Ryan and Price all mention them in their plans.
HSAs are only available to people with high-deductible health plans. Those participants can make tax deductible contributions toward current and future health care expenses. Any savings they don't use can remain invested and grow tax-free. One of the goals of HSAs is to entice more people to enroll in high-deductible plans, which are seen as a way to slow the growth of health care spending since consumers must shell out more from their own pocket.
Price would provide a $1,000 one-time refundable tax credit for contributions and would increase the amount people could sock away in these accounts, up from the current $3,350 for individuals and $6,750 for families. He would broaden eligibility, protect the accounts from bankruptcy proceedings and allow older Americans to transfer their required minimum distribution from their retirement accounts into their HSAs.
Ryan, meanwhile, would expand the maximum contribution to the account so it would equal an enrollee's deductible and out-of-pocket expense limit. And he would allow more people to participate, such as military members enrolled in TRICARE.
 Why Obamacare could be the messiest battle of 2017
Capping employer-sponsored plans: Both Obamacare and Republicans want to keep the cost of employer-sponsored insurance in check to deter companies from offering overly generous plans. Economists argue this would help slow the rise in health care costs and raise more revenue for the federal government.
Obamacare aimed to do so through the so-called Cadillac tax, which was to impose a 40% tax on the value of policies above $10,200 for single coverage and $27,500 for family coverage in 2018. However, the provision was despised by companies and unions alike, and its implementation was delayed to 2020.
Ryan and Price would limit the tax exclusion on work-based insurance coverage. Ryan doesn't provide details, but Price would cap the benefit at $8,000 for individuals and $20,000 for families.
About 150 million Americans are insured through their jobs. The average individual policy cost $6,435 in 2016, while the family premium was $18,142, according to the 2016 Kaiser/HRET Employer Health Benefits report.
CNN Senior Congressional Producer Deirdre Walsh contributed to this story.
Blue razors were priced at £0.10, while pink one were being offered for £0.20.
Tesco, which runs 3,500 stores across the U.K., has sent a letter to Sherriff saying it has reviewed its products to make sure it's not overcharging women.
"We are guided by doing what is right for our customers ... so we have reduced the cost of our women's twin blade razors, so that they are the same price per unit as the male equivalent," a Tesco spokesman said in a statement.
Tesco has defended the pricing by arguing that it sells many more men's razors, making it easier to keep prices low.
The price change was first reported by The Guardian.
 'Pink tax' angers women from New York to London
Tesco is not the only company to face criticism over a "pink tax," where women are charged more for comparable products.
British pharmacy chain Boots was forced to cut prices of some items last year after an online campaign called on the company to stop unfair pricing.
In New York City, a study of 800 products performed by the city government found that women paid more in 42% of cases.
@carters why are white cotton shirts "for girls" $4.61more than white cotton shirts "for boys?" #pinktax #womantax #discrimination pic.twitter.com/HYiRq6dN4Y

 Startup cuts prices on feminine products to protest 'pink tax'
The Fawcett Society in the U.K. said its own investigation across major supermarkets showed women are paying on average 31% more for a basket of comparable products.
"It was a perfect storm of events," said Charles Hayter, founder and CEO of digital currency comparison website CryptoCompare. "Uncertainty is key."
Hayter said the rise of populism globally means that "walls are going up rather than coming down," and people are seeing higher risks of trade wars and other fallout from the ratcheting up of tensions.
All this has led Bitcoin's value to more than double in the past year to $1,023, from around $430. Just since Trump's election, it has spiked 40%.

 What is bitcoin?
Bitcoin is preferred by some people for its perceived anonymity, and it has also been used for illegal purchases of drugs, and other products.
The value of Bitcoin has fluctuated wildly over the years. In 2013, Bitcoin increased tenfold in just two months to $1,151.
However, a hack on the Tokyo-based Mt.Gox Bitcoin exchange in 2014 sent the currency plunging to less than $400.
Bitcoin was created anonymously online in 2009. It belongs to no country. It's not recognized by any government as "legal tender." Yet, it is the best-known and the most popular digital currency.
Hacking continues to be a major issue.
As recently as August, hackers stole Bitcoin worth about $65 million after attacking a major digital currency exchange Bitfinex.
But despite the controversy over the years, Bitcoin-related startups have attracted big name investors.
Among them: American Express (AXP), Bain Capital, Deloitte, Goldman Sachs (GS), MasterCard (MA), the New York Life Insurance Company, and the New York Stock Exchange.
They are betting that the technology will change the way we trade stocks, send money to each other, get paid at work, and much more.
--Jose Pagliery contributed to this report.
The initial program will run for a period of two years. Participants were randomly selected, but had to be receiving unemployment benefits or an income subsidy. The money they are paid through the program will not be taxed.
If the program is successful, it could be expanded to include all adult Finns.
The Finnish government thinks the initiative could save money in the long run. The country's welfare system is complex and expensive to run, and simplifying it could reduce costly bureaucracy.
The change could also encourage more jobless people to look for work, because they won't have to worry about losing unemployment benefits. Some unemployed workers currently avoid part time jobs because even a small income boost could result in their unemployment benefits being canceled.
"Incidental earnings do not reduce the basic income, so working and ... self-employment are worthwhile no matter what," said Marjukka Turunen, the head of the legal unit at Kela, Finland's social insurance agency.
 Switzerland rejects plan to pay every citizen at least $2,500 a month
The idea is not unique to Finland.
Advocates point to the Italian city of Livorno, which started a guaranteed basic income for the city's 100 poorest families in June. The scheme was extended to further 100 families starting Sunday. They are receiving €500 ($525) per month.
Pilot programs are also being discussed in Canada, Iceland, Uganda and Brazil.
Switzerland last year considered giving every adult citizen a guaranteed income of $2,500 a month, but the plan was rejected in a referendum. More than 75% of voters were against the measure.
 How does your salary stack up?
The best example of a guaranteed income program might actually be in the U.S. Alaska has been giving out annual cash payments to all residents since the 1980s, a dividend from the state's oil revenue.
BIEN, a group that campaigns for universal income, describes it as the first "genuine universal basic income system."
"The ACA made changes in every part of the health care system," said Larry Levitt, senior vice president at the Kaiser Family Foundation, of the Affordable Care Act. "Virtually everyone has been touched by the ACA."
President-elect Donald Trump and congressional Republicans have vowed to swiftly repeal Obamacare. They plan to start with the provisions that affect spending and revenues -- including the federal subsidies, Medicaid expansion, taxes and mandates that all individuals obtain coverage and large employers provide it. That will require only a majority of votes in the Senate. But Republicans have promised to eventually undo all of President Obama's signature health reform law, save for the provision allowing children under age 26 to stay on their parents' plan.
Here's how Obamacare and its full repeal would affect all Americans:
Medicare
Dismantling Obamacare would likely mean higher premiums, deductibles and cost-sharing for the 57 million senior citizens and disabled Americans enrolled in the program. It would also bring back the infamous "donut hole" in Medicare's prescription drug coverage.
The health reform law made many changes to Medicare. It slowed the growth of payment rates to hospitals and other providers, reduced payments to Medicare Advantage plans and improved benefits for enrollees. Repealing Obamacare would increase Medicare spending by $802 billion over 10 years, according to estimates by the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office.
 What Obamacare could be replaced with under Trump
As a result, Medicare beneficiaries would pay more because premiums and deductibles are tied to the growth of federal outlays. So seniors would face higher deductibles and co-payments for their Part A, which covers hospital stays, and higher premiums and deductibles for Part B, which pays for doctor visits and other services. The White House estimated that the typical Medicare beneficiary is paying about $700 less in premium and cost sharing this year because of slower growth in costs.
Under Obamacare, Medicare enrollees receive free preventative benefits, such as screenings for breast and colorectal cancer, heart disease and diabetes. This provision would disappear under a full repeal.
Also, Obamacare called for closing the gap in Medicare's drug coverage in stages, completely eliminating it by 2020. Senior citizens have to pay more for drugs while they are in the donut hole. For 2016, the gap begins when enrollees and their insurers have spent $3,310 for medication and ends after they hit $4,850 in costs. Since Obamacare was passed in 2010, more than 11 million people have saved an average of more than $2,100 a person on prescription drugs, according to the White House.
The donut hole would return if Obamacare were repealed.
Higher-income enrollees, however, would see some financial benefit from repeal. Obamacare froze the threshold for the Medicare premium surcharge at $85,000 for individuals and $170,000 for couples, so more people have become subject to it. The law also added a premium surcharge on drug coverage for wealthier beneficiaries.
 Obamacare under President Trump: What happens next?
Employer-sponsored insurance
Say goodbye to the employer mandate if Obamacare is repealed. Companies with at least 50 employees would no longer be required to provide affordable insurance to their staffers who work more than 30 hours a week.
This likely wouldn't have a major impact on the 150 million workers who are insured through their jobs since most larger employers already offer coverage for full-time workers, Levitt said.
However, setting the bar at 30 hours a week prompted some employers to extend coverage to more of their staff, since many companies had considered that threshold to be part-time. If repealed, companies could opt to cover only those working at least 35 or 40 hours a week, leaving some people uninsured.
Also, companies would no longer have to keep children on their parents' plans until they turn 26. This has proved to be one of the more popular Obamacare provisions, with 2.3 million Americans ages 19 to 25 signing up between 2010 and the start of open enrollment in 2013, according to the White House's most recent figure. (Trump has said he may keep this policy.)
Workers, however, may have to start paying again for contraceptives and preventative screenings, such as colonoscopies and mammograms. Obamacare requires these to be provided free-of-charge.
Obamacare also prohibits employers from imposing annual or lifetime limits on benefits and caps out-of-pocket spending (to $7,150 for single workers in 2017).
Repealing Obamacare could have a bigger hit on employees who work at companies with fewer than 50 workers.
They enjoyed many of the benefits Obamacare brought to the individual market. Insurers could no longer ban workers with pre-existing conditions or ask them to pay more. It required plans to cover an array of benefits, including maternity, mental health and prescription drugs. And it limited insurers from charging older workers premiums more than three times those of younger workers. All this could be reversed under repeal.
 How Trump may cover Americans with pre-existing conditions
Individual market
Obamacare has had the largest impact on the individual market, which was largely unregulated prior to the health reform law.
It sought to make health insurance more accessible and affordable in a number of ways. It required insurers to cover people with pre-existing conditions and banned them from charging the sick more. The law ended the practice of insurers imposing annual or lifetime caps on benefits, and it also placed limits on annual out-of-pocket spending. It mandated that individual insurance cover an array of benefits, including medication, maternity and mental health. It prevented insurers from charging women more and restricted premiums for older folks at no more than three times those of young adults.
Obamacare set up health insurance exchanges to allow Americans to shop for individual policies and created federal subsidies so low- and moderate-income enrollees could buy policies for less than 10% of their income. Another set of subsidies limit the deductibles and co-payments for lower-income policyholders. Some 10.4 million people were covered through the Obamacare exchanges, as of June.
Another 6.9 million Americans purchase individual policies outside of the Obamacare exchanges. They cannot apply for subsidies, but receive all of the other benefits.
(Trump has said he would continue to require insurers to cover those with pre-existing conditions, but only if they were continuously insured. Those who did not have coverage could be subject to higher premiums or forced to apply for policies in state-based high-risk pools.)
 Obamacare 2017 enrollment hits record
Medicaid
Before Obamacare, most Medicaid enrollees were low-income children, pregnant women, parents, the disabled and the elderly.
The health reform law opened up the program to low-income adults with incomes of up to 138% of the poverty line -- $16,400 for a single person -- in states that opted to expand their Medicaid programs. So far, 31 states, plus the District of Columbia, have done so, adding nearly 17 million more people to the rolls since late 2013, just before the provision took effect. (This figure includes both those newly eligible under expansion and those who always met the criteria.)
 Major changes for Medicaid coming under Trump and the GOP
Under the program, the federal government paid 100% of the costs of the expansion population for the first three years and slowly lowered the reimbursement rate to 90%.
Repealing Obamacare would leave millions of the poorest Americans without insurance.
Uninsured
Under Obamacare, nearly all Americans have to obtain insurance or pay a penalty, which this year hit $695 per adult or 2.5% of household income, whichever is greater. This mandate would be lifted by repeal.
This comes at the same time as Swiss bank Credit Suisse (CS) announced a similar settlement over mortgage-backed securities. Under its $5.3 billion deal with the U.S. Department of Justice, the bank will pay a $2.5 billion fine and put $2.8 billion towards financial help for consumers.
Other big Wall Street banks, including JPMorgan Chase (JPM), Citigroup (C), Goldman Sachs (GS) and Morgan Stanley (MS), reached similar deals totaling about $45 billion in recent years in relation to their their pre-crisis mortgage activities.
Deutsche Bank's settlement is significantly lower than the $14 billion originally demanded by the Justice Department three months ago.
The bank says it's forecasting a $1.2 billion hit to its fourth-quarter profit from the fine.
The U.S. Justice Department wasn't immediately available for comment.
Its original demand back in September was so huge and unexpected that it prompted Deustche Bank shares to crash to their lowest level in over 30 years.
Investors worried such a penalty could hobble the bank, which has already been weakened by stricter banking regulations, hefty legal costs and low interest rates.
 Barclays sued by US over billions of dollars in toxic mortgages
Local media even reported that Germany was considering a state-backed rescue for the bank, though the government quickly said a bailout deal was not in the cards.
Shares in the bank have staged a recovery since their September lows, but are still down by about 20% in 2016.
Deutsche Bank has already shelled out billions to settle other charges that it conspired to manipulate global interest rates and colluded with other banks to rig foreign exchange rates.
 World's oldest bank seeks government bailout
The timing of the Deutsche Bank settlement is noteworthy, coming just before President-elect Donald Trump takes over the White House.
Trump has borrowed $360 million from Deutsche Bank, according to U.S. Rep. Maxine Waters of California, a Democrat.
Delaying the settlement until after Trump's inauguration could have created a perceived conflict of interest, especially if the new U.S. administration extended friendlier terms to the bank.
-- Rob McLean and Rishi Iyengar contributed to this report.
"Based on the tremendous cost and cost overruns of the Lockheed Martin F-35 I have asked Boeing to price-out a comparable F-18 Super Hornet!" Trump tweeted.
Based on the tremendous cost and cost overruns of the Lockheed Martin F-35, I have asked Boeing to price-out a comparable F-18 Super Hornet!
The F-35 is the Pentagon's largest single program and is estimated to cost $400 billion to procure the nation's next generation fighter fleet.
For Lockheed, the F-35 is its industrial future. Trump's tweet has threatened to upend Lockheed's plans just as his tweets aimed at China has rattled Boeing, which is counting on selling jets to Chinese airlines.
Trump & Boeing: It's not about Air Force One, it's about China
Through 2016, 285 F-35s had been purchased for three U.S. military branches, including 36 for the U.S. Navy.
But the Navy is already considering the purchase of 10 to 15 additional Super Hornets annually through 2020 because of delays getting the F-35C model used on aircraft carriers.

Boeing, which has continuously updated the Super Hornet with new electronics, bigger fuel tanks and new stealthy features, has pitched the Navy jet as a more affordable alternative to the F-35. Only the Navy operates the Super Hornet.
The Department of Defense's plans call for purchasing 2,158 more F-35s by 2038 for an estimated $265 billion, according to the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office.
The F-35 with its advanced sensors and stealth capabilities has gone years and billions of dollars over budget, though its corporate and military leaders have said the worst is behind them. The Pentagon's F-35 program leader said earlier this week that more than $500 million would be needed to complete the advanced jet's development.
Much of the F-35's future affordability is based on the sheer number being purchased by the U.S. and its allies. Any move to scale back the purchase, Lockheed and the Pentagon say, makes it harder to bring down the cost of each jet.
Lockheed Martin's stock dipped about 2 % in aftermarket trading. A spokesman for Lockheed Martin declined to comment Thursday, but on Wednesday Lockheed chief executive Marillyn Hewson said after her meeting with Trump, "I appreciated the opportunity to discuss the importance of the F-35 program and the progress we've made in bringing the costs down."
Boeing tweeted that it is "ready to work" with the Trump administration.
Ready to work with @realDonaldTrump's administration to affordably meet U.S. military requirements.
The budget office estimated on December 8 that if the Defense Department curtailed plans to add more F-35s and instead buy more Boeing Super Hornets and F-16s, also manufactured by Lockheed, taxpayers would save an estimated $29 billion.
The Canadian government abandoned plans to purchase F-35s in favor of Boeing Super Hornets to replace their aging CF-18 jets.
The president-elect started putting aerospace giants in the crosshairs after a December 6 threat to cancel a Boeing contract to build two new jets to serve as Air Force One over concerns the development was having severe cost overruns.
Trump claimed, without offering evidence, that the price of the planes was more than $4 billion and "out of control."
Pentagon estimates have laid out a budget of $2.9 billion for the two heavily-modified airliners. Boeing chief executive Dennis Muilenburg on Wednesday vowed to deliver the new presidential transports for under the president-elect's $4 billion figure.
 JPMorgan filed $360 million for manipulating key interest rate
Two bank executives were named in the suit: Paul K. Menefee, who served as Barclays' head banker for subprime residential mortgage backed securities, and John T. Carroll, who served as Barclays' head trader for subprime loan acquisitions.
Barclays' shares closed down nearly 2% in New York.
In a statement, the bank said it "considers that the claims made in the complaint are disconnected from the facts," and will seek to have the suit dismissed.
Barclays, which is headquartered in London, was one of many banks whose mortgage practices were blamed for contributing to the financial crisis.
Many major American banks have already reached multi-billion dollar settlements with prosecutors, over the crisis, including Bank of America (BAC), Goldman Sachs, Citigroup (C) and JP Morgan Chase.
European banks, like Barclays, remain under investigation by federal authorities for their bad loans. Late Thursday, Deutsche Bank (DB) said it had agreed to a deal worth $7.2 billion to settle claims that it packaged up toxic mortgages between 2005 and 2007. Others under investigation include Credit Suisse (AMJL) and Royal Bank of Scotland (RBS).
Like trains that add and remove sleeper cabins and cafe cars, Airbus is experimenting with the same concept for planes. Each module, piece-by-piece, would load on and off through a large cargo door onto a modified and nearly-windowless freighter.
The goal is to give airlines a blank canvas on which to design a new passenger experience and expand their revenue model beyond traditional tickets and fees.
Transpose imagines a flying Starbucks, sleeper bunks, a play zone for kids, gyms, spas or even a section for a movie studio promoting a new summer blockbuster.
Airbus offers a peek at its flying taxi
Through Transpose, Airbus is trying to solve an expensive problem for airlines. Over a half-decade of use -- or longer -- interiors get worn out and quickly outdated. A mid-life overhaul on a twin-aisle jetliner can cost tens of millions of dollars and take weeks.
"Airlines aren't allergic to change, but the cost makes it hard" to quickly try new things, said Jason Chua, Airbus's project executive.
Chua doesn't want to have to reinvent an all new airliner (that costs $15 billion or more). By using an adapted freighter based on Airbus's A330 long-range airliner, the goal is to change an interior in eight hours or less. It's already designed to haul large pallets and heavy containers.
But with train car-style customization comes a big, and potentially jarring change for passengers. The Airbus project wants to design "windowless technology" using OLED screens embedded in the walls of each module.
The Transpose team is digging deeper to find out if this is what airlines and passengers want. The project has rented a warehouse near San Jose to build in early 2017 a 150-foot long, 20-foot wide mockup to test out simulated flights. By the end of the decade, the team plans to demonstrate the concepts in flight.
But even as A^3 ponders a cabin without natural light, plane makers, including Airbus, have put windows at the center of the passenger experience.
Boeing's bigger windows on its new 787 Dreamliner were a major selling point. Their research suggested a connection to the sky was a hallmark of an improved flying experience. And seeing out bigger windows -- no matter where a passenger was sitting -- was central to that. The argument was so compelling that Airbus followed suit on its own all-new A350 XWB. The rivals have been sparring over who gives passengers a better view ever since.
Many long-range flights today, Chua contends, are flown with the window shades down.
But windows aren't only for passenger comfort -- they're also for safety. Many airlines request passengers keep their window shades open for takeoff and landing to see outside during an evacuation to avoid any hazards. The same goes for emergency crews looking in from the outside.
Transpose will still have some windows, at least six on each side of the plane to make sure cabin crews can see outside in an emergency. "You can have a great experience, but if it's not safe, people shouldn't be flying. That's definitely our first priority," said Chua.
Airbus's design isn't the only future vision without a view. Aerospace engineers at Boeing have long been studying a blended wing body design that is leaps more efficient than traditional planes. But such designs separate the passenger cabin into windowless rooms.
Hans Weber, an aerospace consultant at TECOP International, said the increasing proclivity toward staring at screens, whether our phones or virtual reality, might make losing the view easier to take. Someday we'll say of windows, "that's an anachronism," said Weber. "That's how we used to do things."
The stock gains are an indicator of the possible conflicts of interest that could occur when a hedge fund manager such as Icahn has a role in advising what regulations should stay and which should go.
 Carl Icahn supports Trump but doesn't agree with all of his policies
Icahn has been leading the debate against Environment Protection Agency regulations that essentially require small, independent refineries like CVR to buy EPA credits that are created when ethanol is blended into gasoline. CVR Energy reported paying $58 million for those credits in the third quarter alone, eating into its profits. Those credits, which are traded on Wall Street, fell about 11% in trading Thursday while CVR's shares climbed, said Tom Kloza, chief oil analyst for the Oil Price Information Service.
Icahn told CNN earlier this month that he is not opposed to requiring renewable fuels to be blended into gasoline, but that "what the EPA is doing is natural stupidity. They are ruining companies for no reason."
Icahn predicts that if the EPA rules remain in place, there will be widespread bankruptcies among independent refiners. That in turn will give the big oil companies even more control of the market, he argues.
"I believe we all can agree that the mandate of the EPA is to improve our environment, not to benefit 'big oil' and large gas station chains by bankrupting innocent refiners, especially when admittedly doing this in no way achieves the goal of benefiting our environment," Icahn said in a public letter to the EPA in August.
 Carl Icahn says Trump stock market rally has 'gone too far'
Late Wednesday Icahn was tapped by Trump to be his lead advisor on cutting government regulations which hurt business.
"It's time to break free of excessive regulation and let our entrepreneurs do what they do best: create jobs and support communities," he said in Wednesday's announcement. "Regulatory reform will be a critical component of making America work again."
Icahn told CNBC Thursday that he won't be making policy in his new position, only "more or less doing the same thing I do now, which is talk to Donald from time to time."
In addition to his role cutting regulations, Icahn also confirmed to CNN that he met several times with Oklahoma Attorney General Scott Pruitt, Trump's pick to run the EPA, during his vetting process and advised Trump on his nomination.
Correction: An earlier version of this article incorrectly reported Thursday's gain in CVR Energy and the percentage of Icahn's portfolio those shares represent.
Not only that, but Goldman Sachs (GS) is a serious force behind the Dow's race to 20,000. Goldman has contributed an incredible 24% to the Dow's post-election rally of 1,600 points, according an analysis by FactSet.
So why is Goldman the MVP of this Dow rally? No, it's not because Goldman pays more than the other Wall Street banks and has cooler perks. Though...that may be true.
It's because Goldman is the most expensive stock in the 30-member Dow -- by a long shot. At $240 apiece, Goldman shares fetch $60 more than 3M (MMM), its next closest peer on the Dow. The shares are also worth nearly eight times more than "cheap" Dow stocks like General Electric  (GE)and Cisco (CSCO, Tech30).
All of that matters because the 120-year-old Dow is a bit unusual, compared with its modern peers like the S&P 500. The biggest quirk is that the Dow is a price-weighted average, meaning expensive stocks have more influence on the index than lower-cost ones. Hence, why Goldman has accounted for almost a quarter of the Dow's post-election gain.
So why is Goldman up so dramatically?
 Trump's curious Goldman Sachs connections
1.) Big banks booming: Trump's victory has sparked a scramble to buy virtually all banks. The KBW Nasdaq Bank Index (BKX) of large banks is up 24% since Trump's win.
2.) Interest rates have spiked: Low rates have starved banks of profits for many years. The rapid rise in long-term rates should help. Now there is more of a gap between the short-term interest rates banks pay to depositors and long-term costs charged to borrowers.
3.) Cutting red tape: Trump has promised to roll back regulation, including the Dodd-Frank financial overhaul that he's called a "sprawling and complex piece of legislation." The jury is still out on how this will impact big banks, but for now, investors are betting the new administration will be a friend to Wall Street.
4.) More M&A, trading activity: Investment banks like Goldman live in part on fees generated by headline-grabbing mergers. Many anticipate less antitrust scrutiny under Trump, though he did criticize AT&T's (T, Tech30) takeover of CNN parent Time Warner (TWX) during the campaign. Trading activity is also up, giving Goldman more fee revenue.
 Today's Dow is a lot different from just 20 years ago
It also can't hurt that Trump has hired a number of Goldman veterans since being elected.
Trump's treasury secretary pick, Steve Mnuchin, spent nearly two decades at Goldman. Trump also tapped Gary Cohn, second-in-command at Goldman Sachs, to be director of the influential National Economic Council. And Steve Bannon, a former Goldman M&A banker turned Wall Street critic, is Trump's chief strategist.
Nicholas Colas, chief market strategist at brokerage firm ConvergEx, understands why some may think Trump's hiring of Goldman guys will lead to special treatment. However, he doesn't believe that thinking is justified.
"The laws are written for everybody. Carving out exceptions for Goldman Sachs doesn't really happen in this industry," Colas said.
Meanwhile, the bottom 50% of the American population earned an average of $16,000 in pre-tax income in 1980. That hasn't changed in over three decades.
As if that's not depressing enough, living the American Dream is also getting harder to do.
Millennials, born in the 1980s, only have a 50% likelihood -- a coin toss chance -- of earning more money than their parents did, according to new research released this month from the Equality of Opportunity Project.
It wasn't always this way. In the 1940s, almost everyone in America grew up to be better off financially than their parents. While money isn't the only definition of success, more wealth typically leads to bigger houses, grander vacations, fancier cars and more opportunities to advance.
"Children's prospects of achieving the 'American Dream' of earning more than their parents have fallen from 90% to 50% over the past half century," the researchers wrote in their report.
 Trump's new plan to save jobs

Wealthy taking a bigger piece of 'pie'
The wealthy didn't always take such a big share of the proverbial "pie." In the 1970s, a decade generally seen as fairly prosperous, the top 1% of Americans earned just over 10% of all U.S. income (i.e. the "pie").
Over time, the rich became more lucky -- or more greedy. Today the top 1% take home more than 20% of all U.S. income.
As the wealthy earned more, someone else in America had to get less. The bottom 50% went from capturing over 20% of national income for much of the 1970s to earning barely 12% today.
The turning point started around 1980, as seen in the graph below. By the mid-1990s, the fortunes of the top 1% were clearly on the rise and those of the bottom half were declining rapidly.
 Elizabeth Warren watchdog under siege

Wages aren't going up for bottom 50%
The Great Recession hit everyone hard. While job losses hit the bottom half, the tanking of the stock market and the sharp drop-off in home and property values caused the wealth of the top 1% to also fall dramatically.
Around 2009 and 2010, inequality narrowed slightly because the rich had lost a lot of wealth.
But since then, inequality has grown and is on track to widen further. The wealthy have recovered far faster as the stock market has surged over 230% since bottoming out in March 2009 and property values have shot back up to pre-recession levels.
In the meantime, wages for the bottom aren't moving.
The U.S. tax system is supposed to help the poor. Yet even after-tax income shows that the bottom 50% averaged just $25,000 a person in 2014, according to the latest data. That's just a touch above the $20,000 someone in the bottom half earned way back in 1974 (after adjusting for inflation).
"Income has boomed at the top: in 1980, top 1% adults earned on average 27 times more than bottom 50% adults, while they earn 81 times more today," write Piketty, Saez and Zucman.

"Every one of our employees has a troubled past, dealing with homelessness, drug addiction, history of incarceration," said Andy Magel, founder and director of Mile High WorkShop. "With some of these offenses, they have no hope finding regular employment. Their best path forward is to be self-employed."
To Magel, knowing how to make something gives them a much better shot at entrepreneurship or sustainable employment versus preparing them for a service sector job.
Magel, 33, started Mile High WorkShop in February 2014 with a vision to create a viable pathway to help people with troubled pasts land back on their feet.
"When I was in college I volunteered with a local mission shelter. People there had been living on the street, some were recovering addicts," said Magel. While the shelter provided them with social services and career and learning classes, Magel was acutely aware of one shortcoming.
 Chinese manufacturers are setting up shop in the U.S.
"These services are very different from giving someone practical, hands-on experience with a skill that could actually land them a job," he said.
So the business school graduate decided to do something about it.
Two years ago, Magel was hired by Denver-based charity Mile High Ministries to design a practical program, funded by donations, to help socially marginalized individuals get jobs.
The Mile High WorkShop came together almost by accident, he said. "I knew friends who had a business in Denver making cool wooden camera accessories," said Magel. They needed help as the business was growing quickly. Magel invited the owners to relocate into an empty commercial space and teach people how to make their products.
"I hired the first employee out of the local transitional housing program on a part-time basis. She was 18 and had been homeless for many years. Now she was working and learning a skill," he said.
 This robot makes a T-shirt from start to finish
Since 2014, Magel has grown Mile High WorkShop into a small non-profit manufacturer that has contracted their trainees with more than 100 businesses. "About 20 businesses are recurring clients," he said.
The WorkShop now has four programs teaching sewing, woodwork, laser engraving, and packaging and distribution. Employees, most of whom are in temporary housing, are paid $9 to $10.50 an hour.
 America's abandoned factories in hot demand
He soon hopes to add one more course teaching industrial manufacturing processes such as CAD (computer aided design), CNC machining and fabrication.
The program has already graduated 25 people, aged between 18 and 50.
"We're seeing manufacturing pick up significantly in Colorado, both industrial and commercial and small-scale artisanal production," said Magel. The trend bodes well for his staff.
"Some businesses have expressed interest in hiring our workers," he said.
Magel has high hopes for his effort. "By 2020 we want be able to work with 100 people each year and generate sufficient revenue from our sales," he said.
He also thinks the Mile High WorkShop model can be replicated nationwide to help people in need find jobs.
"Too many times these individuals are told they are not good enough because of their past," said Magel. "But if you tell them they can do it, they rise to the challenge. For them, there's dignity and self-worth in making something with their own hands that people will pay money for."
 Trump's new plan to save jobs
Trump has vowed repeatedly to clamp down on immigration and make jobs available for Americans. But Trump's various businesses have been granted approval to hire at least 1,256 foreign guest workers over the last 15 years, according to a CNN analysis of Labor Department filings. Since the start of Trump's campaign in June 2015, companies he owns have requested at least 190 foreign visa workers, according to Department of Labor data. The workers were hired on a variety of different U.S. visa programs.
Most of the requests for foreign workers were for the Mar-a-Lago Club, Trump's exclusive crown jewel property that is both a resort and sports club, nestled on the shores of Palm Beach. In the past 10 years, 849 foreign guest workers were approved to work at the resort, mostly as servers, cooks, housekeepers or similar positions.
Trump has said publicly that he has turned to foreign workers when his businesses cannot find Americans to take the jobs he is looking to fill. Indeed, the Department of Labor requires proof that an employer seeking to import workers tried but failed to attract qualified U.S. workers.
 Trump's Vegas hotel drops fight with union
"You cannot get help during the season. The season goes from like October to March. It's almost impossible to get help," Trump said during the campaign, when asked why Mar-a-Lago hired foreign guest workers. "And part of the reason you can't get American people is they want full time jobs."
Records show Mar-a-Lago appears to have done the bare minimum required by law to advertise the jobs to U.S. workers. According to a CNN analysis of hundreds of pages of Labor Department documents, Mar-a-Lago did not place advertisements in the area's largest newspaper. Instead, ads were placed in a local paper with a small circulation. Additionally, the ads were routinely posted for just two days, the minimum required by law.
-- CNN's Scott Bronstein, Drew Griffin and Will Cadigan contributed to this story.
Republicans have called for everything from eliminating the CFPB entirely to yanking the CFPB's funding or replacing its director with a bipartisan board.
Efforts to defang the CFPB will run into fierce opposition from Warren. The Massachusetts Senator told CNNMoney in a statement that the CFPB has proven to be a strong consumer agency that "helps level the playing field for working families."
Warren argues that's why "big banks and their Republican allies in Congress are so eager to strangle the agency any way they can."
For their part, critics paint the CFPB as a runaway regulator slinging out so many rules that it's hurting Americans who need credit.
CFPB Director Richard Cordray has "inundated Main Street financial firms...with a flood of burdensome mandates," John Berlau, a senior fellow at the libertarian Competitive Enterprise Institute, wrote in a memo proposing changes for the Trump administration.
Berlau told CNNMoney he believes President-elect Donald Trump will have the grounds even under Dodd-Frank's stringent standards to remove Cordray for cause.
The CFPB was dealt a blow in October by a federal court that ruled the agency is "unconstitutionally structured" due to its single-director structure.

 Meet Debra Wong Yang, who could be Trump's SEC chairman
But Cordray has signaled he's not going anywhere. The CFPB told CNNMoney Cordray "has no plans to step down" and noted he was confirmed by a bipartisan group of 66 senators.
The CFPB said that over the past five years its work has provided $12 billion in relief for some 27 million Americans. The CFPB has also secured more than $500 million in civil penalties.
The recent Wells Fargo (WFC) scandal also helped burnish the CFPB's watchdog brand. The case outraged the public because the shady behavior -- millions of fake accounts created with phony PIN numbers and email addresses -- didn't require a finance textbook to understand the bank's shenanigans, unlike the complex financial fraud that emanated during the crisis.
And while the CFPB didn't uncover the trouble at Wells Fargo (the L.A. Times and L.A. City Attorney did), the agency's $100 million fine packed the biggest punch.
"It really showed there was this agency looking out for retail consumers and willing to take enforcement actions, even against large banks," said Nathan Dean, a financial policy analyst at Bloomberg Intelligence.
 Drugs prostitutes used to bribe NY pension fund manager
Other noteworthy CFPB actions include:
-Ordering Bank of America  (BAC)to pay $727 million in refunds to 1.9 million customers who were illegally charged for credit card products they weren't receiving
- $700 million in consumer relief for illegal credit card practices impacting roughly 7 million Citigroup (C) accounts
-New rules and enforcement action to halt deceptive practices by more than two dozen payday lenders
The CFPB has also been praised for investing in financial literacy and creating a vast consumer complaint database that has compiled nearly 700,000 complaints. The CFPB analyzes the data to identify real problems in the marketplace.
But Berlau's Competitive Enterprise Institute thinks the CFPB has gone too far.
The group is suing the CFPB on behalf of a small Texas bank that claims CFPB regulation forced it to stop issuing mortgages. Berlau argues the CFPB's refusal to exempt smaller lenders from its qualified mortgage rules has hurt access to credit by making it easier to sue banks for overestimating borrowers' ability to pay.
Patricia McCoy, a Boston College Law School professor who oversaw CFPB mortgage policy in 2011, said the mortgage criticism is "unfounded" and pointed to research showing mortgage credit has expanded under the new rules.
 Scandal-ridden Wells Fargo wants less regulation
So what does the future look like for the CFPB?
Few expect the CFPB to be completely abolished, an outcome that McCoy warns would be a "dangerous course of action."
But it's possible the CFPB is defanged. It might get turned into a commission appointed by Democrats and Republicans. Such gridlock could slow down the CFPB's rulemaking and enforcement process.
There's also a push to make the CFPB, which is currently funded by the Federal Reserve, subject to Congressional appropriations.
"That would pack a big punch. Congress holds those purse strings closely and already uses them to underfund the SEC," McCoy said.
It's not yet clear whether Trump would support Republican efforts to rein in the CFPB given his populist rhetoric and supporters' distaste for big banks.
The president-elect has already signaled a desire to root out financial abuse. Trump asked Preet Bharara, the powerful U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of New York, to stay on. He's also considering Debra Wong Yang, a tough former federal prosecutor, to lead the SEC.
"The CFPB, after all, is a populist institution. I think it would be very hard for Trump to justify abolishing or rolling it back," said Robert Shapiro, a senior fellow at Georgetown's McDonough School of Business who has advised Democratic presidents.
The company, now renowned among pro boxers, came from humble origins. It was founded by Alberto's father, Don Cleto Reyes Casto, who was an aspiring boxer at age 18 -- but after an amateur fight, Don found the pounding too hard and gave up the sport.
Instead, he became obsessed with the gloves he fought in, mending and modifying them until he was certain they were better than any other gloves on the market.
He began producing his own gloves commercially. Almost 80 years later, the red leather gloves --- made from cowhide or goatskin leather and stuffed with horsehair -- are mass-produced and sold across the globe.
"It's been an honor to continue the legacy that my father started," said Alberto, who took over the company when his father died in 1999.
These days, Cleto Reyes makes 30,000 gloves per year. The business employs 150 people and is still based in a small workshop on the outskirts of Mexico City.
The company exports close to 70% of its gloves out of Mexico across five different continents, Reyes said. Its biggest buyers are the United States, the United Kingdom, Japan, France and Italy.
Watch this: A new contender for the sports apparel crown
Known as a "puncher's glove," they're popular among world champion fighters -- including Manny Pacquiao and Juan Manuel Marquez -- for their slim, lightweight designs with minimal padding.
Former world champion Ricky Hatton says the gloves were his "all-time favorite."
"I always preferred Cleto Reyes," he said. "They were a lovely, nice, snug fit -- the padding always seemed to be very tight.
"I fell in love with them straight away. I remember saying to my trainer, 'Wow, look at these gloves. I could do some damage with them.' "
Reyes says he regularly turns down proposals from factories in Asia that offer cheaper manufacturing prices.
To him, it's important the gloves continue to boast the tag: Made in Mexico.
"I prefer to control the quality," he said, adding that he also wants to stimulate the Mexican economy by creating local jobs.
One uncertainty is how the results of the recent U.S. election could affect Reyes's business. President-elect Donald Trump is threatening to impose tariffs on Mexican imports if America doesn't get a better trade deal with Mexico and Canada.
But Reyes remains optimistic for the company's future -- saying that it has always faced political and economic challenges.
"In this regard, I trust that the quality of our products will withstand the fluctuations produced as a result of [his] policies," he said.

Oprah is the third largest shareholder in Weight Watchers. She owns nearly 6.4 million shares of the company -- a stake worth about $77 million. That's an increase of $10 million from Wednesday. She is also on the board of Weight Watchers.
And the value of Oprah's stock in Weight Watchers has increased by nearly $35 million since she first disclosed her investment in October 2015.
But the stock has been on a wild yo-yo ride over the past year.
 Weight watching? Here's how Oprah can help

While Oprah may be making big bucks on Weight Watchers, that's not the case for investors who only bought after finding out that she was involved.
Shares of Weight Watchers have plummeted nearly 50% this year and are down about 60% from the highest post-Oprah investment price they hit in November 2015.
The stock has bounced around a lot -- often due to stories about Oprah and her weight.
 Weight Watchers investors obsessed with Oprah
Shares surged in late January thanks to a tweet and video from Oprah in which she declared "Eat bread. Lose weight. Whaaatttt?" and said that she had already lost 26 pounds.
But investors got a rude awakening a month later when Weight Watchers reported a surprise quarterly loss as well as a decline in sales, subscribers and attendance at the company's meetings.
The stock popped again in August after there was another story about Oprah's weight loss on People's website that then got more play thanks to the New York Post's Page Six celebrity gossip feature.
Oprah told People at a premiere for the OWN Network show "Queen Sugar" that she's lost so much weight using the diet service that longtime boyfriend Stedman Graham "can pick me up and carry me to the pool. I can straddle him without breaking his back."
Page Six naturally chose "Oprah can now straddle Stedman 'without breaking his back'" as the headline for its blurb.
But Oprah's endorsement of the company hasn't changed its fortunes. The company faces tough competition from other diet services. Shares of Nutrisystem (NTRI) have surged nearly 70% this year, for example.
 Weight Watchers CEO calling it quits after tumultuous year
Many weight watchers also have decided that they don't need to pay a monthly subscription to Weight Watchers for diet tips, recipes and exercise and fitness advice either. There are tons of free weight loss apps for smartphones.
Weight Watchers still faces many challenges. In fact, the company announced in September that its CEO James Chambers was stepping down after he failed to turn the company around.
The company did report earnings in November that topped Wall Street's forecasts. So there are some signs of a turnaround taking hold. But analysts expect sales to rise less than 1% this year and only increase by about 5% next year.
So even though it's great news for Oprah that she's been able to lose so much weight, investors that still own Weight Watchers stock might want to make dumping shares their New Year's resolution.
It was also the last look at the economy's performance in the months leading up to the election, when President-elect Donald Trump criticized America's slow growth on the campaign trail.
It's also closer to the 4% growth that Trump has promised for the economy.
Despite the improved reading in the quarter, it won't move the needle much for all of 2016. The U.S. economy grew at a sluggish pace in the first half of the year, averaging 1.1%, and many economists still forecast around 2% growth for the entire year.
 U.S. manufacturing job openings back at 2007 levels
The Federal Reserve sees the economy growing around 2% for the next few years.
A major, one-time, increase in soybean exports helped explain why the third quarter was so good.
But other categories picked up slack too. Consumer spending, which makes up the majority of activity, rose 3% in the quarter. Business spending on new buildings and projects wasn't as much of a drag on the economy as it had been in previous quarters. Federal government spending also picked up too.
Ikea also agreed to only sell chests and dressers in the United States that meet or exceed the national voluntary safety standard.
 Ikea to recall dressers after death of third child
Ikea announced a repair program in July 2015 to encourage customers to anchor the dressers to the wall. After the third death, it announced a recall of millions of the dressers, along with a refund program for customers who returned them.
The recall included Malm chests and dressers with three, four, five and six drawers, as well as children's chests and dressers taller than 23.5 inches and adult pieces taller than 29.5 inches. All three boys were killed when Malm dressers tipped over on them.
Ikea confirmed the settlement but said it had no further comment.
"We appreciate that people are interested in Ikea and want to create fun experiences, however the safety and security of our co-workers and customers is our highest priority and that's why we do not allow sleepovers in our stores," the company said in a statement on Thursday.
The Ikea sleepover apparently became a thing after two Belgian youngsters uploaded a video of themselves spending the night in one of the stores.
 Ikea renames products after your secret anxieties

After eating some Swedish meatballs -- a staple of Ikea dining -- the two hid in cupboards until after closing time, then spent the night trying various bed models, ranking them according to comfort and the quality of jumping they provide.
The clip has been viewed 1.8 million times on YouTube and sparked a wave of copycat videos.
One such video shows three British teenagers getting arrested for trespassing. "We are in a deep s***," one of them is heard as saying.
Monte dei Paschi's shares have crashed by about 87% since the start of the year.
2. GDP revision: The U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis is releasing updated GDP data for the third quarter.
The last release showed the economy grew at an annualized rate of 3.2%. Economists generally aren't expecting a shift in this figure.
A strengthening U.S. economy led the Federal Reserve to raise interest rates earlier this month.
Before the Bell newsletter: Key market news. In your inbox. Subscribe now!
3. Market movers -- Nintendo, Nokia, Actelion: Shares in Nintendo (NTDOY) dropped again Thursday as investors worried that the company wasn't going to make much money from it's hyped-up game, Super Mario Run.
Nintendo stock has plunged by more than 14% since the game's release last week.
Shares in Nokia (NOK) are slumping after the Finnish firm announced it's suing Apple (AAPL, Tech30) for patent infringement. The company said Apple used 32 of its patents without permission covering technologies such as software and video coding.
Shares in Swiss biotechnology firm Actelion (ALIOY) are surging in European trading after the company announced it's back in exclusive takeover talks with Johnson & Johnson (JNJ).
J&J recently ditched plans to buy the company, and Actelion began talks with another suitor. But now the pair have reunited.
4. Stock market overview: Global stock markets are sagging a bit on Thursday.
U.S. stock futures are inching down.
European markets are mostly negative in early trading. Asian markets are closing out the day with some minor losses.
Investors have recently grown excited about the Dow Jones industrial average hitting the 20,000 level. It's currently sitting at 19,942 and has been trading just below the 20,000 mark for a few days.
5. Earnings: Rite Aid (RAD) and ConAgra (CAG) are releasing earnings Thursday before the open, while Cintas (CTAS) plans to release results after the close.
Download CNN MoneyStream for up-to-the-minute market data and news
6. Coming this week:
Thursday - Final Q3 revision of U.S. GDP Friday - Final full trading day before the Christmas long weekend
Correction: An earlier version of this story incorrectly reported that Friday would be a shortened trading day on the NYSE.
Here's what will happen next:
May wants to trigger Article 50, the legal mechanism that will govern the U.K.'s separation from the EU, by the end of March. She may not get her way -- lawmakers could yet delay the timetable. But once that point is reached, negotiators have just two years to agree the details of Britain's exit.
 Six months on, Brits stand by EU referendum decision
EU officials want a deal done in 18 months to allow time for it to be ratified. That's a tight deadline to resolve thorny issues such as how much Britain will have to pay to wind up its commitments to the EU.
An unrealistic goal?
It's even less realistic to expect the nature of the U.K.'s future trading relationship with Europe, and the wider world, will be settled within that period.
Power players Germany and France have national elections in 2017 that may limit their ability and inclination to discuss how much access to Europe's vast markets British business will have once the U.K. quits the EU.
But if no new deal is struck by March 2019, the U.K. will crash out of the EU into a vacuum, frantically trying to negotiate new agreements with its major partners.
Hence expectations are rising that there will be some kind of transitional arrangement that will prevent British exports of goods and financial services falling off a cliff when Brexit happens.
 Young Brits expect Brexit will cost them
Britain would leave the EU, but continue to abide by its rules while trade negotiators continue their work.
That's a scenario that angers Brexit hardliners, who insist that anything short of a complete separation by 2019 would be unacceptable.
Halfway house?
But a committee of the House of Lords -- the upper chamber of the U.K. parliament -- believes a transitional agreement "will almost certainly be necessary."
"We see little evidence that agreeing a transitional arrangement would put the UK's wider interests at risk," the parliamentary committee said. "Quite the opposite: a transitional arrangement would allow negotiations to be conducted in a less pressured environment, benefiting all concerned."
The list of issues to be settled is extensive: Will Britain pursue membership in the European Economic Area (which includes Norway and Iceland). Will it continue to allow the free movement of EU citizens across its borders? Will it accept oversight by EU courts? Will it remain a member of the European customs union?
And if the answer to these questions is "no," is it willing to pay the inevitable price in barriers to trade?
 Brexit is becoming a big fat mess
So far, businesses based in the U.K. have faced the uncertainty brought on by Brexit with relative calm. But demands for clarity from the government are growing louder.
Communications have so far been haphazard. May has said she would not provide "running commentary" on Brexit preparations. But her officials have filled the void with chatter, much of it contradictory.
Top Brexit official David Davis reportedly said in November that he was "not really interested" in a transitional arrangement with the EU. He has since said he would accept such an arrangement "if necessary."
Free trade or border controls?
And Ivan Rogers, the U.K. ambassador to the EU, reportedly told ministers in October that a new free trade agreement with the EU could take 10 years to negotiate. The prime minister's office said that did not reflect the government's view.
The biggest issue to be settled is that of immigration. May has indicated that limiting the number of people coming to Britain is paramount. The EU was founded on the principle of free movement and Germany and France have made clear that the U.K. can't enjoy the benefits of Europe's internal market if its borders close.
The light years between those positions suggests a rocky road ahead.
Slashing government regulation was also a key component of Trump's economic plans since early in his campaign, and one that 80-year-old Icahn said he was eager to help out on.
 Trump - A regulation killer and creator
"It's time to break free of excessive regulation and let our entrepreneurs do what they do best: create jobs and support communities," Icahn said in the announcement. "President-elect Trump is serious about helping American families, and regulatory reform will be a critical component of making America work again."
Icahn, who has advised Trump on some of the people picked to run regulatory agencies, claims an expertise "in seeing stupid things being done" by government agencies. Icahn says agencies like the Environmental Protection Agency are ruining businesses for no reason.
"I'm not anti regulation. I'm anti the stupidity of some of these regulations and it has just run amok," he told CNN.
 Trump assembles a team of billionaires
Icahn started on Wall Street in 1961 and in 1968 he formed Icahn & Co. The firm took significant stakes in numerous major corporations over the year, typically proposing changes in the way they were run or urging them to sell off divisions.
According to Forbes he is worth $16.5 billion, making him the 50th richest man in the world.
That would make him the richest member of the Trump administration, including the resident-elect himself, who Forbes estimates is worth is worth $4.5 billion.
Other billionaires in Trump's cabinet include Wilbur Ross, his pick as Commerce Secretary, Todd Ricketts, who is the nominee for deputy commerce secretary, Education secretary nominee Betsy DeVos, and Vincent Viola, who is Trump's pick for secretary of the Army.
But Trump campaigned as a businessman who knows how to make global deals. Already, his tweets have pressured CEOs of companies like Boeing (BA) and Lockheed Martin (LMT) to respond.
China could be his next target. Trump is tapping economist Peter Navarro to head up the new trade council. Like Trump, Navarro believes the Chinese do not play fairly on trade.
"It's not trade that's the problem, it's the bad trade deals," Navarro said on the campaign trail where he served as a key Trump economic adviser.
Navarro produced a documentary titled "Death by China" about how America lost its manufacturing base to the Chinese. He's also the author of "Crouching Tiger: What China's Militarism Means for the World."
"Help defend America and protect your family: Don't buy Made in China," Navarro says in the film.
Trump is putting Navarro in charge of a new "Buy America, Hire America" program that will impact everything from "infrastructure to national defense."
 Trump's big cabinet surprise
How far will Trump go on China?
Navarro and billionaire Wilbur Ross (now Trump's Commerce Secretary nominee) worked together on many of the economic policy details for Trump's campaign. In September, they called China the "biggest trade cheater in the world."
"President Trump will use all available means to defend American workers and American manufacturing facilities from such cheating, including tariffs," Navarro and Ross wrote in September.
One of the biggest questions for 2017 is how far will Trump go against China or any other nation on trade. Trump's appointment of Navarro and Ross to key trade posts in the new administration appears to signal a strong desire to stop importing so many goods from China.
There are concerns from CEOs and economists that if Trump puts a big tariff on ALL goods coming from China to the U.S. (or Mexico to the U.S.), it will cause a trade war that will backfire and hurt American workers and consumers.
Navarro says that's not correct. He told CNNMoney that tariffs are a "negotiating tool."
"Those who suggest that Trump trade policies will ignite a trade war ignore the fact that we are already engaged in a trade war," Navarro wrote in September.
 U.S. manufacturing job openings at 2007 levels
Navarro's other plans
Navarro has a PhD in economics from Harvard and is currently a business professor at University of California-Irvine.
In addition to tax cuts, Navarro and Ross argue that Trump can get America growing again and balance the budget by doing these three things:
1. Cut government regulations by 10% (details weren't given on which regulations)
2. Eliminate America's $500 billion trade deficit (by renegotiating deals)
3. Expand U.S. energy production (by allowing more drilling and more coal burning)
Other experts aren't so sure. They think it will be tough for Trump -- or anyone -- to get the U.S. growing much more than 2% and to balance the budget.
Even before the election, there were concerns that customers would be deterred by price hikes -- the average premium for the benchmark silver plan soared 22% for 2017 -- and the fact that some insurers pulled out of the exchanges.
However, administration officials sought to portray Obamacare as strong and crucial. Even if Trump and Republican lawmakers repeal the health reform law, they are likely to keep it in place for at least two to three years while they formulate an alternative.
"Today's enrollment numbers confirm that some of the doomsday predictions about the marketplace are not bearing out," said Health Secretary Sylvia Burwell. "American people don't want to go backwards. They don't want to gamble with their healthcare during a repeal and delay."
The pace of enrollments picked up closer to the deadline for coverage starting January 1, which was extended four days to Dec. 19 to accommodate demand. President Obama called attention to the fact that a record 670,000 people selected policies last Thursday.
One worrisome sign is that fewer new consumers rushed to the exchanges than a year ago, when 2.4 million of the roughly 6 million people signing up for Jan. 1 coverage were first-timers. This year, only 2.1 million of nearly 6.4 million are new to Obamacare.
 Why Obamacare could be the messiest battle of 2017
Burwell said the administration plans to ramp up its advertising and outreach efforts to potential new enrollees in January, noting that new consumers tend to sign up later in the enrollment period, which remains open until Jan. 31.
Current participants will be automatically re-enrolled in their plans on Jan. 1 unless they opt to switch policies. Consumers aren't officially enrolled until they pay their first month's premium.
States that run their own exchanges are also seeing a boost in interest. Minnesota has enrolled a record 54,600 people, state officials said Monday. That's more than twice as many as last year.
In Connecticut, meanwhile, just over 24,200 residents had enrolled as of last Thursday.
The Obama administration expects a total of 13.8 million people to sign up for plans by the end of the enrollment period, which began Nov. 1.
 Obamacare enrollment projected to grow 9% in 2017
However, it's common for people to drop their policies during the course of the year because they find coverage elsewhere, either through a job or a spouse. So, an average of 11.4 million people are expected to be in Obamacare policies during 2017.
Some 10.4 million people were enrolled as of June, the most recent figures available.
The Obama administration is encouraging people to sign up to show Trump and Congressional Republicans how important Obamacare is to Americans.
Still, lawmakers are expected to repeal certain parts of Obamacare -- including the federal subsidies, Medicaid expansion and the requirement that nearly all Americans obtain coverage. But they will likely delay actually ending these provisions for two to three years while they come up with a replacement plan.
 Obamacare chaos: Insurers may fell before a new plan can be put in place
While insurers are locked into providing coverage next year, the delay may prompt some to rethink their involvement in 2018.
As Trump's inauguration draws closer, several think tanks issued reports highlighting the benefits of Obamacare and the dangers of repeal.
Obamacare has made it easier for Americans to access health care when necessary. The share of adults who said they had to skip going to the doctor because of costs dropped by nearly 19% between 2013 and 2015, according to a new Commonwealth Fund report.
Also, the Urban Institute issued a report Wednesday that found 4.4 million children could lose their coverage if Congress repeals but doesn't replace Obamacare. Some 88% of these children would be in families with working parents, and 54% would be white.
The number of uninsured parents would rise by 7.6 million, with nearly 86% of them in families with at least one person working part time or full time.
A total of nearly 30 million people would become uninsured if lawmakers repeal but don't replace Obamacare, according to Urban Institute. The repeal would do away with not only the individual exchanges, but also other provisions such as Medicaid expansion and letting children stay on their parents' health plan until age 26.
Earlier this year, openings rose as high as 400,000 in April, one of highest marks since the Labor Department first started counting the figure in 2000.
Hiring has picked up a little but it hasn't kept pace with openings in recent years.
Experts caution that the rise in job openings doesn't compensate for the millions of manufacturing jobs lost since 2000.
"It's nice to have those jobs back, but the rate of change is not such that you're going to have a renaissance in the Rust Belt," says Joseph Fuller, a professor at Harvard Business School, who has researched job skill trends.
The gap between job openings and job hires in manufacturing has widened this year. There were 271,000 hires in October, meaning, in theory, about 51,000 manufacturing job openings went unfilled in October.
A few reasons -- both good and bad -- help explain why American factories have plenty of openings but not enough hires.
 The manufacturing boom that Trump ignores
1. Improving job market: When the job market gains momentum, people start moving jobs, leaving openings that need to be filled. The unemployment rate is down to 4.6% from 10% in 2009 -- a sign that the job market has recovered.
2. Job skills gap: Many employers can't find the workers with advanced job skills required for new types of positions, such as 3D manufacturing or operating complex machinery.
3. Passive recruitment: Some employers post job openings once they see orders for their goods increase. But they may want to be sure the pick-up is here to stay and take a "wait and see" approach before actually hiring a person.
4. Trumped up optimism in manufacturing: Since the election, about 78% of manufacturers are either somewhat, or very, positive about their future outlook, according to the National Association of Manufacturers. That's up from 61% in September. Optimism tends to breed job openings.
 High schoolers manufacture plane parts
The problem with the increase in job openings is the quality and type of manufacturing jobs.
Employers aren't looking for assembly workers to stitch new clothes, build furniture or craft beautiful wooden coffee tables. They want workers who have advanced jobs skills -- the 3D manufacturer.
"The low skill, low wage jobs are actually moving away and being replaced by the high-skill, high-wage jobs," says Ahu Yildirmaz, head of the ADP Research Institute.
Back in 2008, half of U.S. manufacturing firms offered jobs that, on average, paid $25 or less per hour. This year, only about 30% of manufacturers are paying $25 or less an hour, according to ADP.
In other words, working class Americans with low skills are finding fewer job opportunities while high-skill jobs go unfilled.
 U.S. has lost 5 million manufacturing jobs since 2000
The trillion dollar question is whether Trump can bring back loads of manufacturing jobs, as he has promised. Trump's big, $1 trillion infrastructure proposal could be a boon for construction and manufacturing jobs in America. Done right, it would also boost U.S. economic growth.
Optimistic employers may also be betting on Trump's promise to strip away regulations on energy -- a sector that requires lots of parts and equipment supplied by manufacturers.
But not everyone is optimistic. Manufacturing trends can take decades to reverse, and job losses have continued to mount this year.
"Do I really think that's going to change? I guess not...I don't think we're going to see a big increase in manufacturing employment," says Susan Helper, an economics professor at Case Western Reserve University who focuses on manufacturing.
"Odebrecht and Braskem used a hidden but fully functioning Odebrecht business unit - a 'Department of Bribery,' so to speak - that systematically paid hundreds of millions of dollars to corrupt government officials in countries on three continents," said Deputy Assistant Attorney General Sung-Hee Suh.
 Brazil hit by more punches amid historic recession
The companies are not charged with bribing any U.S. officials, but the since the scheme used U.S. bank accounts, they are being charged in federal court in the U.S. The U.S. Attorney in Brooklyn was also responsible for bringing bribery charges in 2015 against some of the top officials of FIFA, the governing body for international soccer.
The record fine is the latest twist in Brazil's corruption scandal. Its state-run oil company, Petrobras, operated a deep bribery ring between construction firms including Odebrecht and Brazilian politicians.
Brazil's former president, Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva, was indicted Monday by a federal judge in Brazil on charges of alleged money laundering and corruption. Known as "Lula," he is accused of accepting a penthouse apartment paid for by Odebrecht in exchange for contracts with Petrobras. He's implicated in at least three other corruption cases.
Lula's successor, Dilma Rousseff, was impeached earlier this year. Although she was formally accused of another crime, the Petrobras scandal and the recession it helped create loomed over her impeachment trial.
Rousseff wasn't accused of accepting bribes from Odebrecht, but many in her inner circle have been jailed on accusations they accepted bribes from Odebrecht and other firms.
Even four cabinet members of the current president, Michel Temer, have had to resign after corruption allegations tied to the bribery ring.
U.S. officials said foreign bribery poses a major risk to America.
"When foreign officials receive bribes, they threaten our national security and the international free market system in which we trade," said FBI Assistant Director in Charge William Sweeney. "Just because they're out of our sight, doesn't mean they're beyond our reach."
U.S. and Swiss authorities will each get 10% of the fine money, while Brazil will receive the other 80%. Braskem (BAK) will pay about $950 million. Odebrecht will pay at least $2.6 billion and as much as $4.5 billion, depending up what an independent analysis finds the company can afford.
"Like other online retailers, we have a marketplace with millions of items offered by third parties that includes Blue Lives Matter, Black Lives Matter and All Lives Matter merchandise," said a Walmart spokesman. "After hearing concerns from customers, we are removing the specific item with the 'bulletproof' reference."
 Walmart trims its Christmas Eve hours
Walmart's move satisfied the police union, which does not object to the phrase "Black Lives Matters" by itself, according to James Pasco, the group's executive director.
"The bulletproof thing goes to the new assertiveness of some violence prone individuals to take action directly against police. We find it offensive for that reason," said Pasco.
Pasco added that the police union had yet to reach out to the third party vendor, Old Glory, that sells the bulletproof items. But Old Glory owner Glenn Morelli said he's already decided to take down the shirt from his site as well.
"It wasn't a big seller at all. The Blue Lives Matter sells more than the Black Lives Matter or bulletproof shirts combined," Morelli said. "We don't like to offend anybody."
He said his company offers more than 500,000 different kinds of shirts and sweatshirts on its site.
"When you sell that many, you have to sell all different kinds of shirts," he said. "It's hard to make everybody happy."
1. AlliedSignal merged with Honeywell (HON) in 1999 and changed its name to Honeywell -- which was removed from the Dow in 2008.
2. Alcoa (AA) -- or Aluminum Company of America as it was known until formally changing its name in 1999 -- got kicked like an aluminum can out of the Dow in 2013. It was replaced by Nike (NKE).
3. AT&T (T, Tech30) could wind up becoming my new boss if its deal to buy CNN owner Time Warner (TWX) passes regulatory muster. But it's no longer a Dow stock.
Baby Bell Verizon (VZ, Tech30) replaced AT&T in 2004. A year later, another Baby Bell (and Dow component) SBC bought its former parent and renamed itself AT&T. But the Dow hung up on AT&T again in 2015 and replaced it with Apple (AAPL, Tech30).
4. Bethlehem Steel was removed from the Dow in 1997 and went bankrupt in 2001. Needless to say, there are no more steel companies in the Dow.
 Next stop for the Dow? 20,000
5. Eastman Kodak (KODK) disappeared from the Dow like a faded photograph in 2004. It also went bankrupt but it has reemerged as a slimmer and more digitally-focused company.
6. It's almost inconceivable to imagine the Dow without General Motors (GM) in it. GM was added to the Dow in 1925, but it was removed in 2009 following its bankruptcy filing and was replaced by Cisco Systems (CSCO, Tech30).
7. 1999 was not a good year for Goodyear (GT). That's when the company famous for its tires and blimp was kicked out of the Dow.
8. International Paper  (IP)has actually been removed from the Dow twice. The most recent time was in 2004, ending a 48-year stay in the index. But IP's preferred shares made an appearance in the Dow in 1901 -- for just a few months before being kicked out.
9. Philip Morris changed its name to Altria (MO) in 2004. But Altria's status as a Dow component went up in smoke in 2008.
10. Sears (SHLD) still exists. But the perennially money-losing retailer -- which also owns Rain Man's least favorite store Kmart -- is a shell of its former self. Sears Roebuck left the Dow in 1999 after a 75-year stay in the index.
11. Texaco is now part of Chevron (CVX), which is also in the Dow. Texaco was removed in 1997. And Chevron actually got kicked out of the Dow too in 1999 -- before Chevron and Texaco merged. Chevron was added back in 2008. Whew. Get it? Got it? Good.
12. Union Carbide was bought in 1999 by Dow Chemical (DOW) -- which, despite having Dow in its name and a ticker symbol of DOW, is not in the Dow.
 The Trump rally has been stunning and broad. How long will it last?
13. Westinghouse Electric merged with TV giant CBS (CBS) in 1995. The company changed its name to CBS in 1997 -- and was thusly removed from the Dow. The remainder of Westinghouse is now owned by Japanese conglomerate Toshiba.
14. Millennials may not remember Woolworth, the five-and-dime icon that was once one of America's most popular retailers. Woolworth, which had the super cool ticker symbol of Z, closed all its stores in 1997 and was removed from the Dow that year.
But Woolworth still lives on -- sort of. Woolworth also owned some other retail chains. It renamed itself as Venator and later changed the name again to a little company you may have heard of called Foot Locker (FL).
Several other Dow stocks have come and gone during the past two decades.
AIG (AIG) was added in 2004 and kicked out in September 2008 after it almost imploded during the financial crisis and required a massive government bailout.
Kraft (KHC) (which is now Kraft Heinz) replaced AIG -- only to be removed in 2012 after the company split into two. UnitedHealth (UNH) replaced it.
 Greed is back on Wall Street
Travelers Group changed its name to Citigroup in 1999 following their merger. Citi (C) got kicked out of the Dow in 2009, and was replaced by Travelers (TRV) -- which used to be part of Citi and was spun out in 2002. Whew again!
Hewlett-Packard (HPQ) and Bank of America (BAC) were added to the Dow in 1997 and 2008 respectively. And both were shown the Dow door in 2013.
Johnson & Johnson (JNJ), Home Depot (HD), Pfizer (PFE), Visa (V), Goldman Sachs (GS), Microsoft (MSFT, Tech30), Intel (INTC, Tech30) and Walmart (WMT) are all relative Dow newbies too.
So who might be joining the Dow in the next few decades? Facebook (FB, Tech30)? Google (GOOGL, Tech30)? Amazon (AMZN, Tech30)? Mega-unicorns like Uber and Airbnb that are still private? And what Dow components would they potentially replace?
Heck, there could be companies that don't even exist yet which could be Dow components in 2036. So it will be interesting to see just how high (or low for you bears) the Dow will be two decades from now.
Preet Bharara, the U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of New York, also charged Deborah Kelley and Gregg Schonhorn, the two broker-dealers who allegedly paid the secret bribes.
Schonhorn has admitted to his participation in the scheme. The 45-year-old Short Hills, New Jersey man pled guilty in Manhattan federal court to six counts and is cooperating with the government.
All three individuals were also charged by the SEC on Wednesday.
The bribery and alleged fraud took place between 2014 and 2016 and involved one of the largest institutional fund managers in the world. With $179 billion in assets, the NY State Common Retirement Fund is the third-largest pension fund in the U.S. and manages retirement assets for more than 1 million people, including firemen and police officers.
"The hard-earned pension savings of New Yorkers should never serve as a vehicle for corrupt, personal enrichment," Bharara said in a statement.
The indictment alleges that Kelley, Schonhorn and "others" paid Kang bribes in the form of "entertainment, travel, lavish meals, prostitutes, nightclub bottle service, narcotics, luxury gifts and cash payments, among other things."
Specifically, authorities say that Kang given cocaine, crack cocaine, a $17,400 luxury watch, a $4,200 Hermes bracelet for his girlfriend, $6,000 worth of VIP tickets to a Paul McCartney concert in New Orleans and an extravagant ski vacation in Park City, Utah with a guest suite costing $1,000 per night.
Kang used his position as director of fixed income and head of portfolio strategy to steer more than $2 billion in fixed-income business to the broker dealer firms he accepted secret bribes from, according to the indictment.
In exchange, Kelley and Schonhorn secured the NY retirement fund's business and in the process earned "millions of dollars in commissions," authorities say.
 Expedia IT guy made $300K by hacking own execs
The pension fund's domestic bond business with Schonhorn's firm skyrocketed from zero in the fiscal year ending March 2013 to about $2.4 billion in the most recent fiscal year, the indictment alleges.
The SEC said Kang breached his fiduciary duty to the pension fund's one million beneficiaries by failing to disclose the gifts and entertainment he received, which were prohibited by the pension fund and state regulations.
"The SEC will not tolerate public officials who abuse public pension funds to satisfy their own greedy and wanton desires," Andrew Ceresney, director of the SEC's enforcement division, said in a statement.
Kelley and Kahn were both charged with conspiracy to commit securities fraud. Schonhorn pled guilty to additional charges, including securities and wire fraud and conspiracy to obstruct justice in the SEC investigation.
Representatives for all three defendants declined to comment on the indictment.
Authorities say Schonhorn used the smartphone messaging platform WhatsApp to keep his communications with Kang away from law enforcement.
Kelley worked at brokerage firm Sterne Agee during the time of the bribery scheme, FINRA records show. The New York company was later bought by financial services firm INTL FCStone (INTL).
"All activity giving rise to the indictment occurred prior to the acquisition," INTL FCStone said in a statement. The firm confirmed that Kelley was employed by Sterne Agee, but noted that the fixed-income department she worked in was not part of the acquisition.
The indictment does not indicate what broker Schonhorn worked at.
In a statement to CNNMoney, the New York State Common Retirement Fund said it has "absolutely no tolerance for self-dealing."
"We are outraged by Mr. Kang's shocking betrayal of his responsibilities," the fund said, adding that Kang was dismissed in February and it worked with law enforcement once the misconduct was uncovered by authorities.
Meanwhile, European markets and Asian markets are having a mixed trading session.
2. Coke's Africa move: Coca-Cola (KO) announced Wednesday it's paying nearly $3.2 billion to Anheuser-Busch InBev (BUD) to buy the beer giant's majority stake in Coca-Cola Beverages Africa.
The African business bottles Coca-Cola drinks that are sold in countries such as South Africa, Kenya and Uganda.
AB InBev officially took control of its rival SABMiller in October in one of the biggest takeover deals ever. To ensure the business doesn't get too big, the newly formed firm has been selling off different units over the past few months.
Before the Bell newsletter: Key market news. In your inbox. Subscribe now!
3. Monitoring the banks: European banks could be in focus Wednesday.
According to Reuters, Deutsche Bank (DB) could face a massive penalty from the U.S. Department of Justice over its involvement in the U.S. mortgage market meltdown of 2007 and 2008. The Justice Department originally demanded $14 billion over allegations the bank packaged up toxic mortgages between 2005 and 2007.
The bank said at the time it didn't intend to pay that amount and it was just a starting point for negotiations.
Meanwhile, the Italian bank Monte dei Paschi is also in the spotlight as investors expect the company may have to seek a government bailout either this week or next week. The company has been trying to raise money from private investors to avoid a state bailout.
4. Earnings watch: Accenture (ACN) and Finish Line (FINL) are releasing earnings before the opening bell.
Bed Bath & Beyond (BBBY) is one of the key firms reporting results after the close.
Shares in Nike (NKE) are set to jump at the open after the company reported better-than-expected results on Tuesday evening.
But shares in FedEx (FDX) are set to decline as investors react negatively to the company's earnings.
Download CNN MoneyStream for up-to-the-minute market data and news
5. Coming this week:
Wednesday - Apple (AAPL, Tech30) AirPods shipped Thursday - Final Q3 revision of U.S. GDP Friday - Final full trading day before the Christmas long weekend
Correction: An earlier version of this story incorrectly reported that Friday would be a shortened trading day on the NYSE.
Before becoming a high-powered lawyer at Gibson Dunn, Yang made history in 2002 when President George W. Bush named her as the country's first Asian-American female U.S. attorney. Yang earned a reputation for toughness by taking down a violent drug-dealing gang in California and investigating financial fraud.
If confirmed by the Senate, Yang would be responsible for leading the agency's enforcement actions into financial misdeeds such as fraud and insider trading.
The selection of Yang, who was once called the "the 5-foot-1-inch giant killer," suggests Trump may take a tougher stance against financial crime than many expected. Trump has also asked Preet Bharara, the powerful Manhattan U.S. attorney who has aggressively taken on corruption and insider trading, to stay on.
Trump has promised to take a lighter approach to regulation and his election has sent shares of big banks like Goldman Sachs (GS) surging.
"We believe the expected easing in the enforcement environment that industry was expecting is unlikely to occur," Jaret Seiberg, a Cowen & Co. analyst, wrote in a note in response to the news that Yang is top contender to lead the SEC.
Yang's background as a former prosecutor and white collar defense attorney mirrors that of Mary Jo White, the current SEC chief who has said she will step down in January. Similar to White before she took office, Yang lacks deep financial regulatory experience one might expect from a top regulator.
If selected, Yang could expect to be peppered by lawmakers with questions about her beliefs on financial reform.
 Trump adds yet another billionaire to his team
As a prosecutor, Yang took down the notorious Vineland Boyz drug gang by using RICO laws and prosecuted French financial firm Credit Lyonnais for fraud.
Yang's decision in 2006 to step down as a prosecutor was controversial. She immediately joined Gibson Dunn, the law firm that had been representing Jerry Lewis, a Republican congressman that Yang's office had been investigating for corruption. Ultimately Lewis did not face charges related to the investigation.
Some, including editors at The New York Times, speculated at the time that Yang may have been pushed out by the Bush administration for political reasons. Her departure came just weeks before the highly controversial firings of nine U.S. prosecutors. Investigators later concluded that those firings were inappropriately political.
Yang, a single mother of three, recently dismissed the idea she was pushed out.
"Leaving was a completely personal decision," Yang told the Boston College Law School magazine in June.
"When you're starting to borrow money from your mother to pay the mortgage, it's time to leave government," she said.
 Trump transportation pick made $1.2 million from Wells Fargo
Yang has had countless big clients at Gibson Dunn, including Christie. The New Jersey governor tapped Yang's firm to run an internal review into the Bridgegate scandal. The law firm produced a report that essentially exonerated Christie.
Since then, two Christie aides have been convicted for their role in a scheme to cause problems for a political foe by closing lanes on the George Washington Bridge. Yang hosted a December 2015 fundraiser for the governor.
Yang also defended Uber in a class action lawsuit by drivers who said they should be classified as employees instead of contractors. Earlier this year, Uber and its drivers reached a $100 million settlement, but a federal judge rejected the deal over concerns it failed to compensate drivers enough.
Yang also defended DraftKings against crackdowns on the daily fantasy sports site.
Shares are up more than 60% since activist hedge fund Starboard Value took over the company's board in October 2014, said ciao to the CEO and made numerous changes to the menu at Olive Garden.
Starboard waged an epic battle for control at Darden that focused largely on the quality of the food at Olive Garden.
The hedge fund put out a blistering, 294-slide presentation detailing what it thought were major culinary sins at the chain, including failure to salt pasta water, excessive amounts of gloopy sauce on its food and too many breadsticks.
Cristina Alesci and I -- the two Italian-American food critics at CNNMoney -- did our own taste test as well. Let's just say that we concurred with Starboard.
 Olive Garden is still a hit on Main Street and Wall Street
But consumers -- and investors -- have fallen in love with the company again now that it has rejiggered the menu to focus more on some new appetizers and desserts... and more alcohol.
Darden also owns the LongHorn Steakhouse, Bahama Breeze, Yard House and The Capital Grille chains. The company sold off Red Lobster to private equity investors a few years ago.
But Darden's stock lives and dies by the success of Olive Garden, which accounts for nearly 60% of the company's total revenue.
And Olive Garden's same-store sales, which measure performance at restaurants open at least a year, rose 2.6% in the most recent quarter.
Traffic has started to stabilize as well, meaning that the company is able to attract new customers and not just loyal diners. But the bulk of the sales increases have come as a result of price hikes and changes to the menu.
That's not a bad thing as long as customers keep coming back.
They clearly are.
 Santa University: Inside the school for aspiring St. Nicks
Walmart (WMT) has come under fire in recent years for kicking off its holiday sales season with "Black Friday" offers at 6 p.m. on Thanksgiving day, which requires employees to come to work on the holiday.
The retailer has also been taking steps to retain more of its workers, raising the wages of more than 1 million employees at U.S. stores and changing their scheduling protocol to give workers more regular hours.
Boeing: Layoffs are nothing new for Boeing in 2016 -- the company has already fired thousands as demand for jumbo jets slumps. But Boeing (BA) told employees Monday it will continue to cut jobs at its commercial airplane unit in 2017, citing fierce competition with rival Airbus and a drop in new orders.
Airbus also told its labor unions in November that it was cutting around 1,200 jobs.
GoPro: The action camera company announced plans last month to lay off 200 workers. That comes after it laid off more than 100 employees in January.
Many of the latest job cuts come as GoPro (GPRO, Tech30) plans to shut down its entertainment unit. That group was responsible for featuring videos shot on GoPro's action cameras.
 GoPro cuts 15% of staff
Xerox: The company is splitting in two before the end of the year, and company President Jeff Jacobson says layoffs are coming -- even though the point of the split was to stem the company's sales slide.
He declined to say how many will be let go, but the 39,000 employees at Xerox's (XRX) legacy copier business are most likely to be impacted.
Caterpillar: After laying off 10,000 employees last fall, Caterpillar (CAT) said last week that it will issue another round of pink slips.
The construction giant didn't say how many jobs will be cut, but it said it will try to place as many as possible in new jobs at the company. A post-recession rebound has proved difficult for Caterpillar. Its forecast for the coming year is pretty dour.
The Limited: The clothing store told all 248 employees at its Ohio home office that their jobs are in jeopardy. Earlier this month, the company said on an earnings call that it is looking for cash to keep the company alive, and it might have to shutter stores.
But the stock gave up its gains by midday and was trading lower.
The company is in the midst of a transition. It is shifting away from its iconic (and once ubiquitous) hardware in favor of software -- particularly for connected devices such as autonomous cars.
Ford (F) is a big partner of BlackBerry, for example. It uses the company's QNX software in its cars to power its Sync 3 infotainment system.
BlackBerry CEO John Chen said in the company's earnings release that the company is the "leader in mobile security" and that he expected growing demand for its software "as the number of mobile-connected devices continues to proliferate."
He added that the company is on track to post sales growth of 30% in its software and services business in this fiscal year.
 Obama was an innovation junkie. Will Trump follow in his footsteps?
But BlackBerry has a long way to go before it comes even remotely close to the levels it traded at nearly a decade ago when the company was at the height of its popularity.
The stock is down more than 15% this year and more than 95% below its all-time high from 2007.
BlackBerry's old school cellphones with physical keyboards from the late 1990s and early 2000s were once so popular that people nicknamed them CrackBerries.
The phones were popular with not just Obama either. They were fixtures on Wall Street because they had a great reputation for security. Celebrities, most notably Kim Kardashian West, were big fans too.
But the company was notoriously late to the touchscreen smartphone game.
BlackBerry's sales plunged and it started to rack up huge losses as customers left if for Apple's (AAPL, Tech30) iPhone and the litany of devices running on Google's (GOOGL, Tech30) Android mobile operating system.
And BlackBerry announced in September that it has decided to stop making its own devices.
It will rely on partners to manufacture the phones, which will still have BlackBerry's look and feel.
Earlier this year, BlackBerry announced a joint venture with an Indonesian telecom company that will start making BlackBerry devices for that market.
BlackBerry also recently disclosed that it had sold global BlackBerry branding rights to Chinese tech firm TCL.
This is all part of Chen's turnaround strategy to try and save BlackBerry from fading into oblivion like other once-popular consumer brands such as Palm and Nokia.
The company has made it this far despite takeover rumors and bankruptcy fears that have swirled pretty much ever since Chen took over the company in 2013.
 End of an era: BlackBerry will stop making its own phones
And Chen has saved a struggling company before -- he turned around software firm Sybase and sold it to SAP (SAP, Tech30). Investors are still waiting to see if lightning strikes twice for Chen.
But BlackBerry needs to show a lot more progress with this deal and more growth from its software business though. Despite the success in software, BlackBerry's overall sales in the quarter still plunged nearly 50% from a year ago.
BlackBerry is still burning through its cash at a pretty quick rate, which is a concern too.
BlackBerry had $1.6 billion in cash and investments on its balance sheet at the end of November, down from nearly $2.5 billion as of the end of its previous quarter in August.
It is worth noting though that BlackBerry used $700 million in the most recent quarter to pay down debt. So that's the biggest reason why its cash level fell. It also refinanced its debt to a much lower rate. That is clearly a good sign for the company.
In all, GM will cut about 3,300 jobs at the three plants.
GM (GM) has enjoyed a sustained recovery since its 2009 bankruptcy and federal bailout, posting record earnings and steadily increasing sales. But sales are expected to fall this year for the first time since the crisis. Sales through November are down about 3% from the same period last year.
 For automakers, 7-year winning streak may be coming to an end
The Detroit plant makes the plug-in Chevrolet Volt, which has enjoyed strong sales this year. A new version that can travel farther on a single charge has driven a 59% jump in sales this year.
But two of the other models built there, the Buick LaCrosse and Chevy Impala, have reported sharply reduced sales this year as buyers increasingly shift from cars to crossover SUVs. The Lordstown and Lansing plants make cars, not SUVs.
 GM to build self-driving cars in Michigan
Because of weaker sales, GM is stuck with a glut of new cars waiting to be sold. GM's inventory of new cars in the U.S. soared to 873,000 at the end of November from 691,000 a year ago, according to the sales tracker Autodata. Inventories at rivals Ford (F) and Fiat Chrysler (FCAU) have declined slightly during the same time.
All three GM plants losing a second shift will also shut down for extra weeks in January to work through some of the excess inventory. Two other plants, one in suburban Kansas City and another in Kentucky, will also have extended shutdowns. Workers will get most of their pay during those furloughs.
GM had about 97,000 workers in the United States at the end of last year.
Mike LaBella, portfolio manager at QS Investors, said the election has sparked the most market "exuberance" that he's witnessed in a decade.
"Right now, the market is assuming none of the negative consequences will go into effect. That could make for an ugly 2017 surprise," said LaBella.
Here are some of the biggest threats for investors to be mindful of as they head into the next year:
 The Great Rotation: Investors buy stocks, ditch bonds
Stimulus fails to stimulate: Investors are downright giddy over Trump's promises to slash taxes and ramp up infrastructure spending on roads, bridges and airports. But there is no guarantee that these stimulus plans will turn into actual legislation in the timing and manner that Wall Street is hoping for, nor that they'll effectively accelerate the economy.
Sam Stovall, chief investment strategist at CRFA, worries that "hype turns into gripe" as the stimulus plans get bogged down by Republican infighting.
Trade war: For now, Trump's anti-trade campaign rhetoric -- threats to impose tariffs or even rip up NAFTA -- is being dismissed as mere negotiating tactics. But, as president, Trump will have the power to turn protectionism into actual policy if he wants to.
There's also the risk that Trump tariffs lead for a tit-for-tat with major trading partners like Mexico and China or even a destabilizing trade war. Keep in mind that about half of S&P 500 revenues are from overseas. FedEx CEO Fred Smith recently warned that getting out of NAFTA "would be catastrophic for the U.S. economy."
Global tensions, terrorism: The world is a scary place and the new president is likely to get tested early and often. In just the past few days alone, escalating geopolitical risks were on full display in the deadly terror attack in Germany, the assassination of Russia's ambassador to Turkey and China's taking of a U.S. naval drone (and subsequent tweets from Trump).
"There will be some geopolitical event that Trump will have to handle after inauguration. That does create some risk for markets in general," said Shannon Saccocia, head of asset allocation and portfolio strategy at Boston Private.
Dollar goes on steroids: The U.S. dollar has raced ahead of rival currencies since the election due to the stronger growth outlook and expectations of Federal Reserve rate hikes. It's nearly at parity against the euro. While that makes it cheaper for Americans to travel abroad, the strong dollar also has negative side effects. That includes making goods sold by U.S. multinationals like Nike more expensive overseas, while at the same time reducing the value of foreign revenue. If the dollar gets too strong, it can act as a powerful brake on profit growth in the S&P 500.
 Even Icahn says Trump rally has 'gone too far'
Red-hot stocks overheat: The post-election euphoria has made U.S. stocks more and more expensive. That can't last forever. Either earnings catch up to rising prices, or markets need to be correct to lower valuations.
Stovall's research shows that if the bull market ended today, it would be the second most expensive bull market top since World War II based on trailing price-to-earnings ratios. Ironically, Trump himself has warned the stock market is in a "big, fat, ugly bubble" -- and that was when stocks were trading at lower prices than today.
Inflation rears its ugly head: Given the nine-year low in the U.S. unemployment rate, it remains an open question whether the U.S. economy even needs the stimulus Trump has promised. Fed chair Janet Yellen recently said fiscal policy is "not obviously needed to provide stimulus to help us get back to full employment." The fear is that too much government spending causes inflation to rise rapidly, forcing the Fed to raise interest rates so aggressively that it spooks the stock market.
Bond turmoil spreads to stocks: The bond market has tanked since the election due to expectations of more aggressive rate hikes, government spending and inflation. That in turn has sent mortgage rates rising, though they remain historically low. The fear is that borrowing costs rise to levels that hurt growth or that losses in the bond market spark forced selling in the stock market.
Wildcard: Many times investors don't anticipate what upsets the rally until it's too late. Other risks to stocks in the coming months include everything from natural disasters and trouble with China's economic slowdown to attacks by Trump on the independence of the Federal Reserve or other unexpected targets.
After starting the year around $30 a barrel, prices plunged to $26 in February -- the lowest since 2003 -- before climbing back above $50 this month.
So what does 2017 hold?
Leading industry experts say prices should stay above $50 if oil producing nations stick to their guns and cut supply by nearly 1.8 million barrels per day.
"I know the countries are serious," BP (BP) CEO Bob Dudley told CNNMoney on Saturday in Abu Dhabi. "Notices of curtailment have gone out from this region. Russia is clearly very serious about participating in that ...all the ingredients are there to do it."
"There is no question in my mind that if this agreement stays intact the floor will be around $50," Dudley said.
Efforts to curb supply should mean the global crude oil glut will disappear in the first half of next year, according to the International Energy Agency. That's much earlier than it had previously predicted.
Again, as long as OPEC -- led by Saudi Arabia -- sticks to its word.
That's no small caveat. OPEC's record on that score isn't good.
 OPEC is making life even tougher for itself
Since 1989, OPEC has hammered out several production cuts like the one it just negotiated in November. But in that period, the cartel has produced more oil than its quota in all but a handful of months.
"OPEC (countries) never holds to their deals. They always cheat," said John La Forge, head of Real Asset Strategy at Wells Fargo.
Still, there's a lot at stake for producing countries whose budgets have been hammered, and oil companies who have slashed investment in their businesses.
If the production cuts hold, business intelligence firm Wood Mackenzie says the oil and gas industry could see positive cash flow for the first time since 2014.
"Overall 2017 will be a year of stability and opportunity for oil and gas companies in positions of financial strength," said Tom Ellacott, head of corporate analysis research at Wood Mackenzie. "More players will look at opportunities to adapt and grow their portfolios."
-- John Defterios contributed to this report
"Some employers may consider consolidating or shedding these existing positions to proactively reduce some of those [turnover] costs," said Jose Magaña-Salgado, an immigration policy attorney and the author of the report. He added that replacement workers may not be found right away.
 How more deportations under Trump could lead to a spike in foreclosures
According to an October survey of more than 1,300 DACA recipients conducted by the Center for American Progress, a liberal think tank, nearly 87% of people registered under DACA are employed and those workers make an average of $13.96 an hour.
The Immigrant Legal Resource Center said losing these workers would not only reduce the tax revenue that these employees generate but it would also diminish contributions to programs like Social Security and Medicare by a total of $24.6 billion. Over the course of a decade, the group estimates that payments to Social Security would be cut by $19.9 billion, while those made to Medicare would be reduced by $4.6 billion.
 Trump's immigration plan would cost hundreds of billions of dollars
Roughly half of those estimated contributions come from employers, who are required to pay into Social Security and Medicare for each of their employees under the Federal Insurance Contributions Act (FICA).
Of course, an employer may replace an employee who was terminated and resume paying into Social Security and Medicare for that position, Magaña-Salgado said. But in order to fill that position, the worker would likely have left another employer -- leaving a tax revenue hole somewhere else.
"The incoming Administration would be wise to leave DACA fully intact," he said in the report. "The billions of dollars in tax contributions resulting from the program should be reinvested in our nation's workers and retirees, not left on the table."
 The steep cost of underemploying highly skilled immigrants
It's unclear whether Trump will focus on repealing DACA as soon as he takes office in January.
In an interview with CBS's 60 Minutes last month, Trump said he would first focus on deporting undocumented immigrants who have criminal records. Once those individuals are removed, he said he would then decide what to do about undocumented immigrants who, but for their status, are law-abiding people.
"We're going to make a determination on the people that you're talking about," Trump said to CBS's Leslie Stahl. "They're terrific people, but we are gonna make a determination," he said.
The main U.S. indexes are all near record highs, which they reached early last week.
2. Banking on a rescue: Shares in Italian banks are among the best performers in Europe right now after the Italian government said that it is asking parliament to let it borrow as much as €20 billion ($20.8 billion) for a potential bank rescue plan.
Italy's weakest bank, Monte dei Paschi di Siena (BMDPF), has been scrambling to raise €5 billion ($5.2 billion) from investors before the end of the year to avoid a state bailout. If the plan fails, the government is likely to have to step in with a rescue package.
Shares in Monte dei Paschi are rising by about 3% as investors express relief that a back-up plan is in the works. The bank's stock has crashed by about 85% since the start of the year.
Before the Bell newsletter: Key market news. In your inbox. Subscribe now!
3. Earnings: Blackberry (BBRY, Tech30), General Mills (GIS) and cruise ship operator Carnival (CCL) are releasing quarterly earnings before the open Tuesday, while FedEx (FDX) and Nike (NKE) plan to release earnings after the close.
4. Steady as she goes: The Bank of Japan opted to hold interest rates steady and has made no change to its economic stimulus measures. This decision was widely expected.
The Japanese yen is declining following the announcement. Traders are instead opting to move their money into U.S. dollars.
Download CNN MoneyStream for up-to-the-minute market data and news
5. Coming this week:
Tuesday - Nike (NKE) and FedEx (FDX) earnings Wednesday - Apple (AAPL, Tech30) AirPods shipped Thursday - Final Q3 revision of GDP Friday - Final full trading day before the Christmas long weekend
Correction: An earlier version of this story incorrectly reported that Friday would be a shortened trading day on the NYSE.
The weakest lender, Monte dei Paschi di Siena (BMDPF), has been scrambling to raise €5 billion ($5.2 billion) from investors. If the plan fails, the government is likely to have to step in with a bailout for Monte dei Paschi, the world's oldest operating bank.
 Can the world's oldest bank survive Italy's upheaval?
Italy's biggest bank, UniCredit, announced plans last week to raise €13 billion ($13.5 billion) and slash thousands of jobs to shore up its finances.
The country's banking stocks have been hammered for most of this year. They took an extra hit two weeks ago from the political uncertainty triggered by the resignation of Matteo Renzi, the prime minister at the time whose program of constitutional reform was rejected by Italians in a referendum.
Renzi's successor, Paolo Gentiloni, told a news conference late Monday that seeking approval to borrow the huge sum was a "precautionary" measure in response to potential risks in the financial sector.
 Italy's biggest bank to slash 14,000 jobs
Italy's €2.25 trillion ($2.34 trillion) in government debt already stands at 136% of the country's GDP, the second highest ratio in the European Union after Greece.
The Italian government has struggled to fix the country's troubled banking industry, which accumulated more than $370 billion of non-performing loans during years of recession.
Italy has more bank branches than pizzerias, according to the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development, and they struggle with high costs and low returns.
Monte dei Paschi shares have nosedived 85% since the start of the year, Banco Popolare's have plunged 75%, and UniCredit's have dropped 47%.
Boeing cut its commercial airplane unit workforce by 8% in 2016, including shrinking its executive ranks by 10%. A spokesman said the company has no specific target for reductions and is continuing to cut non-labor costs as well.
As of December 15, Boeing has 468 total orders for the year, compared to 768 total orders in 2015 and 1,432 in 2014. Boeing has a backlog of more than 5,600 airliners -- mostly single-aisle 737s -- to build over the coming years.
Boeing reorganizes into three parts: Airliners, fighters and spare parts
Boeing (BA) and Europe's Airbus have been locked in an aggressive corporate rivalry, which has put pressure on both to lower the prices on their jetliners to win deals. In turn, both are cutting costs internally and with suppliers to preserve their profit margins.
Airbus told its labor unions in November that it was cutting around 1,200 jobs, according to a spokesman.
Airlines are scaling back their purchasing for several reasons, including geopolitical and economic instability. The industry is also slowing down after the unprecedented sales boom that followed the rebound from the global financial crisis.
Boeing's Iran deal won't prevent production cut
Boeing last week announced plans to reduce production of its highly-profitable long-range 777 airliner from an average of 8.3 per month, or about 100 per year, down to 5 per month starting in August.
Boeing's chief executive Dennis Muilenburg said in October it was still assessing if it would increase 787 Dreamliner output from 12 to 14 by the end of the decade, but had not yet secured enough orders.
Boeing's commercial unit started 2016 with more than 82,500 jobs, mostly in Washington state. As of November 24, employment had fallen to around 77,400 according to the most recent data available.
Despite the weakness in sales, Boeing returns to shareholders continue unabated -- the company last week hiked its dividend and approved $7.25 billion in new share repurchases.
There's just one problem: Mulvaney's record on spending and deficits is out of sync with a lot of Trump's plans.
 The national debt is the Republicans' problem now
Trump campaigned on an economic plan to cut taxes for businesses and individuals, make no changes to Social Security, and spend up to $1 trillion on infrastructure.
The Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget warned that Trump's campaign proposals would add more than $5 trillion to the debt in the next decade.
"No one in Washington can quite figure out the appointment of deficit hawk Mick Mulvaney to head OMB," says Greg Valliere, chief global strategist at Horizon Investments. "I don't know how he's going to work."
Now Mulvaney will be in charge of preparing Trump's budget proposals to Congress.

Here are three ways the views of Trump and Mulvaney clash:
1. Trump wants to spend. Mulvaney doesn't: The stock market has shot up since Trump was elected president. Some of that rally is because investors believe Trump will spend more money, especially on infrastructure.
But Mulvaney has been against infrastructure spending in the past, especially if it's not clearly paid for.
"Trump is a big spending Keynesian in some respects. How does a big spending Keynesian coexist with Mulvaney?" wonders Valliere.
2. Mulvaney doesn't like 'magical thinking': The Trump team argues that it is fiscally conservative because Trump will be able to grow the economy enough to pay for many of his tax cuts and other plans.
Most economists call this "magical thinking." They are skeptical Trump (or anyone else) can get the economy going much more than 2% to 2.5% -- far lower than the 4% Trump has promised.
In the past, Mulvaney railed against "gimmicks" that politicians use to try to argue their policies are paid for, notes MacGuineas.
3. Another debt ceiling debate is headed this way: President Trump will almost certainly have to appeal to Congress in March for more room under the debt ceiling to keep borrowing and pay all the debts the U.S. has already promised.
In the past, Mulvaney has voted "no" against raising the debt ceiling. He voted "no" in 2011 when the stalling in Congress spooked the bond market and ended up costing the government more money by raising borrowing costs.
It could be a major sticking point in 2017. Markets get very jittery when Congress does not act to lift the ceiling. It could even trigger a default. Experts say the easiest compromise may be for Mulvaney to push to raise the ceiling in March, but only if there's a plan passed as well to control spending.
 The Great Rotation: Investors buy stocks, ditch bonds
House Speaker Paul Ryan's office praised Mulvaney as the "right choice" for budget director, even though Mulvaney is co-founder of the Freedom Caucus, which has been vocal in its opposition to the GOP establishment. The Freedom Caucus was a major force behind ousting former Republican House Speaker John Boehner from power.
Trump's spokesman Jason Miller told reporters Monday that Mulvaney is a "loud voice" for curbing "out of control spending."
People who have worked with Mulvaney before say he is a dealmaker, much like Trump. But it remains to be seen how far he'll go on his core principles.
"There are a whole lot of policy promises [the Trump team] hasn't talked about how to pay for," says MacGuineas.
Argentina's tariff went so badly that the government is ending it starting next year.
The huge tariff did protect Argentine manufacturing workers assembling electronics -- a fairly small industry. But it cost many of Argentina's 44 million citizens dearly, with sky high prices for TVs, computers and cell phones, among other items.
The taxes are so steep that Argentines go next door to Chile to buy electronics, where they are significantly cheaper thanks to Chile's lower tariffs. That has created a massive black market for iPhones in Argentina, where people resell iPhones bought elsewhere.
"Everyone is losing. The only ones who are winning are the people who got the jobs in the industry," says Javier Masoero, a 26-year old software developer who lives in Argentina's capital, Buenos Aires.
 The black market for iPhones: Argentina
Masoero went to Chile last year for vacation -- and to buy an iPhone and an Asus Notebook. He saved about $900 by buying in Chile instead of his home country. He believes the tariffs are the chief reason why the price tag is so much higher.
Online, a shopper in Argentina can buy an iPad mini 4 for about $1,260. In Chile a shopper can buy that same iPad for about $640.
On top of steep prices in Argentina, local business owners say the lack of competition gives manufacturers an incentive to produce low-quality products and charge high prices.
"You can't be competitive just by putting tariffs on imports to protect an industry that's not hiring hundreds of thousands of people," says Matias Recchia, CEO of IguanaFix, a start up in Latin America that's similar to Task Rabbit. It pairs workers with customers who need work done.
 Controversy brews over Trump Tower in Argentina
Recchia wants the tariff repealed. He believes his 120-employee business will benefit because if more Argentines can buy high-quality TVs at a lower price tag, they will more likely need to pay for installation. The gig workers on Recchia's platform install TVs, among other tasks.
Experts stress that Argentina isn't a perfect illustration of Trump's tariffs. For example, in the U.S., car production crosses the border several times because of supply chains. In Argentina, parts don't crisscross borders as much.
And the motivations behind the tariffs are different. While Argentina solely aimed to protect manufacturing jobs, Trump is also using the threat of tariffs to renegotiate NAFTA, the free-trade deal between the U.S., Canada and Mexico.
 These are America's biggest trade partners
Overall, "the impact [of the tariffs] on employment certainly has been very negative," says Santiago Urbiztondo, an economist at the Foundation of Latin American Economic Investigations, a research group in Argentina.
Manufacturers in Argentina warn the government that repealing the tariff on electronics would risk jobs. Economists acknowledge that legitimate concern but they also say that the sky-high prices need to come down. In their view, the protectionist trade policy hasn't worked.
Argentina's economy, which is in a recession, is a relatively closed when it comes to trade. Its average tariff is higher than that of Chile, Mexico, Colombia and Peru, among others, according to the World Trade Organization.
It's not dumping all of its tariffs. Argentina still has high tariffs on other goods like clothes, which are very expensive there.
The fine line between helping consumers and protecting jobs isn't an easy one to navigate.
"You can please one at the expense of the other," says Maria Victoria Murillo, an Argentine professor of political science at Columbia University. "If you put up trade tariffs, consumers will end up paying more."
Yellen also touched on two hot button topics for American jobs -- globalization and automation, and argued those forces make education all the more important.
"Technological advances have increasingly allowed simpler, repetitive tasks to be done more cheaply and safely by machines," Yellen noted.
Studies show that robots and machines have taken away far more manufacturing jobs than Mexico or China has.
"Globalization has reinforced the shift away from lower-skilled jobs," Yellen said. "The jobs that globalization creates in the United States...are more likely to be filled by those who, like you, have secured the advantage of higher education."
 Fed raises rates for first time in 2016
The average college graduate last year earned about 70% more than a typical high school graduate. That gap has widened since 1980 when college grads only earned 20% more than their high school peers, according to Yellen, citing Pew Research and the Council on Economic Advisers.
There are about 54 million Americans in the labor market who have a college degree or a graduate degree. There are about 47 million Americans in the job market who only have a high school diploma or less, Labor Department data shows.
It's not all about money though: "Research also shows that a college or graduate degree typically leads to a happier, healthier, and longer life," Yellen told graduates, citing a study by two economics professors.
As a result of Disney's move higher, the stock is now up slightly year-to-date.
That means that only two of the thirty stocks in the Dow have completely missed this year's rally and are still lower for 2016: Coca-Cola (KO) and Nike (NKE).
Still, Disney's shares haven't exactly been in Wall Street's version of hyperspace this year. Disney continues to lag the market -- and, more tellingly, nearly all of its major media rivals -- due largely to concerns about the health of its ESPN cable network.
 'Rogue One' has big box office opening worldwide
Those worries haven't gone away. The high cost of sports programming -- particularly for the National Football League's Monday Night Football franchise -- has spooked investors, especially amid the NFL's weak ratings this year.
Wall Street is also worried about the fact that more and more consumers are cutting the cable cord, which has led to a steady decline in subscribers for ESPN.
The surprise departure of former Disney chief operating officer Thomas Staggs earlier this year hasn't helped the House of Mouse either.
Staggs was considered the likely successor to current CEO Bob Iger, who is expected to retire once his contract expires in June 2018.
There still isn't any more clarity about who could eventually take over for Iger. And ESPN's problems haven't magically gone away even though ratings for the NFL have improved a little bit in the past few weeks.
But the strong debut of "Rogue One" is undeniably good news for Disney.
It shows that fans are more than willing to go see more movies about the Force even if they aren't directly tied to the core story of Luke, Leia, the (spoiler alert!) late Han Solo (sniff sniff) and the events tied to the original Star Wars trilogy.
Disney has continued to mint money from Star Wars -- which also helps its theme parks and consumer products division.
And the eagerly anticipated (and as of yet unnamed) Episode VIII of Star Wars -- the sequel to "The Force Awakens" -- is due out in December 2017. A separate movie about young Han is also in the works.
 Why some on Wall Street think Disney should cut the cord and spin off ESPN
But Disney's stock has still done worse than NBCUniversal and DreamWorks Animation owner Comcast (CMCSA), CNN and Warner Bros. parent Time Warner (TWX), CBS (CBS) and Rupert Murdoch's Fox (FOXA) this year, despite its overwhelming success at the box office.
Disney also owns Marvel, Pixar and its own namesake studio was as well as Star Wars maker Lucasfilm.
And Disney churned out several big hits from all those studios this year, such as "Zootopia," a live action version of "The Jungle Book," "Captain America: Civil War," "Doctor Strange," "Moana" and "Finding Dory."
According to figures from Hollywood research firm Box Office Mojo, Disney films have grossed more than $2.5 billion at U.S. movie theaters this year -- nearly a quarter of the entire industry's take in 2016.
So Disney will probably need to stop the bleeding at ESPN and come up with a new succession plan to keep investors happy in 2017 -- even if the Force seems to be with its movie studios. Always.
Trump's openness to friendlier relations with Russian leader Vladimir Putin appears to be one reason Russian stocks have done so well. But the surge in oil prices since OPEC agreed to a production cut a few weeks ago is clearly helping, too.
Shares of Russian oil giant Gazprom (GZPFY) are up 12% in the past month, while shares of Lukoil (LUKOY) have gained 15%. Rosneft's (OJSCY) stock is up 20%.
 Oil prices skyrocket on OPEC deal
The Russian economy depends heavily on its oil and energy industry. But other Russian stocks have rallied in the past few weeks, too, such as financial services giant Sberbank (SBRCY) and search engine Yandex (YNDX).
So investors seem to be bullish on a rebound for the entire Russian economy -- which is currently expected to grow slightly next year.
The Russian economy shrank in 2015 and has declined so far this year because of low oil prices and international sanctions imposed after Russia annexed the Crimea region from Ukraine in 2014.
How long could the Russia rally last?
 OPEC almost always cheats
Investors are clearly excited about Russia because of Trump.
However, some members of Congress, including Republican Senator John McCain, are calling for an investigation after intelligence agencies concluded Russian hackers had interfered with the U.S. election, possibly to help Trump.
Dissension in the Republican Party over Russia could put an end to hopes of friendlier ties between the U.S. and Russia.
 Exxon didn't put America first under Tillerson
The ties that Trump's pick for secretary of state, outgoing ExxonMobil  (XOM)CEO Rex Tillerson, has to Russia because of Exxon's deals with Putin and Russia to drill for oil in the Arctic could be a problem as well.
So investors might want to say "nyet" to Russian stocks considering how sharply they've climbed in such a short time.
The ferocious Russian market rally could come crashing to a halt if Trump and Tillerson's relationships with Russia become a problem for Congress. And there's no guarantee that oil prices are going to keep climbing, either.
While 61% of people aged 18 to 24 and 50% of those aged between 25 and 34 think they will be worse off, only 38% of those over 65 expect their personal financial situation to worsen.
But the poll also shows that only quarter of all adults actually expect to be better off because of Brexit.

 Six months on, Brits stand by EU referendum decision
The U.K. voted to leave the European Union in June. The decision sent the British pound plummeting. It has lost over 17% against the dollar since the referendum.
Experts, including the IMF and Bank of England, warned before the vote that leaving the union would be bad for the U.K. economy, but politicians campaigning for Brexit dismissed those claims.
 U.K. economy to grow at slowest pace since 2009
They promised that the government would be able to spend the money it sends the EU at home instead, for example on healthcare.
The process of withdrawing from the EU hasn't started yet, but the government has already been forced to scrap its fiscal targets and plan for higher borrowing because growth is expected to slow as a result of Brexit.
Prices of many everyday items have gone up too, as companies struggle with the higher cost of imports.
Most people still back Brexit, and believe overall the economy will benefit, the CNN/ComRes poll suggests.
But younger voters disagree. The CNN poll shows 61% of under-25s think Britain's long-term economic prospects will be worse outside the EU, compared to only 25% of those over 65.
Brexit scorecard: The cost and complexity of leaving the EU
Young people voted overwhelmingly against the country leaving the EU. According to the CNN poll, 64% of people under 25, and 52% of those aged between 25 and 34, voted to remain.
Only 19% of those under 25 voted to leave. The poll also showed that if given a chance to vote again, only 16% would vote to leave.
The week after the election turned out to be one of the biggest of all time for money flowing into U.S. stocks. But the buying didn't end there. Last week also made the top 10, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Leung says not all investors were "nimble enough" or "heroic enough" to get into stocks right after the election. He thinks they are jumping in now for fear of missing out on even more gains.
The S&P 500 is up 5.5% since Election Day, and the Dow is up more than 8%. CNNMoney's Fear & Greed Index is flashing "extreme greed."
 Trump stock market rally: Likely to keep going in 2017

Stocks rising because of too much hope?
Many Wall Street banks predict stocks will go even higher in 2017, although most forecast only modest gains from the market's record highs.
So is now a great time to buy stocks? Not everyone is convinced.
"Boundless hopefulness now reigns," Peter Atwater, president of Financial Insyghts, warned in his newsletter Friday. "Things are so optimistic, I'm now getting pitched investment ideas on Twitter."
Hedge fund billionaire Carl Icahn, a friend and supporter of Trump's, told CNN that the stock market has "gone too far."
That was on December 9. The market has only risen more since.
The case for stocks going higher rests on three factors:
 Donald Trump may Make Inflation Great Again
A 'great rotation' is taking place
1. Stocks are hot. Bonds are not. Even before Trump won, investors were souring on bonds. Many believe the great bond bubble has finally burst and bonds can only fall in value, especially if the U.S., European and global economies continue to rebound.
Investors have yanked $37 billion from bond funds since the election. Most of that money rotated right into stock funds. This "great rotation" could be a major story in 2017.
2. Optimism about Trump (and Trumponomics): Trump promises an extremely "pro-business" government. He's the CEO of America's 48th-largest private company himself, and many of his Cabinet picks are also CEOs and billionaires.
Trumponomics is all about big tax cuts for individuals and businesses and lower regulations. He also wants an infrastructure spending bill of up to $1 trillion. All that is a sweet melody for markets -- and CEOs. Business confidence is way up. The question for 2017 is whether the gains are priced in or there's more room for stocks to rise.
"A new president tries to do things, but he doesn't have a magic wand," Jeff Gundlach, head of DoubleLine Capital, told investors on a conference call last week.
 Janet Yellen to Donald Trump: I'm not going anywhere
3. Federal Reserve action (and reaction): The Fed has been a big factor in the historic climb of the stock market since 2009. The Fed has kept interest rates extremely low, causing investors to pour money into risky assets like stocks in an effort to make money.
But now the Fed is starting to raise rates. It hiked them last week and plans three more increases in 2017. Higher interest rates could put the brakes on Trumponomics -- and the stock market upswing. But rate increases also make bonds less attractive.
"Clearly the narrative has unfolded very differently post-election than before," Gundlach said.
Parvaresh said he expects Airbus will deliver seven or eight planes to Iran in 2017.
Iran had agreed to buy 12 A380 aircraft after sanctions were lifted in January. The order was seen as crucial for the future of the wide-body aircraft, which has struggled to find buyers.
Airbus declined to comment on Iran's decision to drop the A380, saying that the deal was still being finalized.
Iran finalized a similar deal with Boeing earlier this month. Boeing (BA) agreed to sell 80 airplanes to Iran Air, despite criticism from many U.S. lawmakers, including President-elect Donald Trump.
 Airbus cuts production of A380 super jumbo
Airbus has already said it would scale back production of the A380 starting next year. It will build only 20 in 2017, and only 12 per year from 2018. That's down from 27 it delivered in 2015.
There are 200 of the aircraft in use around the world, with 119 more orders lined up. That's way below the 1,200 orders Airbus said it expected when the aircraft was introduced in 2005.
Airbus has secured orders for just two A380 aircraft (from Emirates) so far this year. But it also had another order for two aircraft canceled, bringing the net number this year to zero.
The A380 was designed to challenge Boeing in the super large aircraft market. But many airlines are now moving towards more fuel efficient planes, rather than super large aircraft.
-- Alireza Hajihosseini and Zahraa Alkhalisi contributed reporting.
The stock index has been flirting with that round number for a week as the market continued its stunning post-election rally. The Dow cleared 19,000 on Nov. 22.
The S&P 500 and Nasdaq are also trading around their highest levels ever. As the final full trading week of the year begins, U.S. stock futures are inching up.
European markets are mostly sinking in early trade, and most Asian markets are closing the day with losses.
Before the Bell newsletter: Key market news. In your inbox. Subscribe now!
3. Stocks to watch -- Airbus, Nintendo, Apple: Shares in Airbus (EADSF) are dipping as Iran Air says it's not going to buy as many of the company's planes as it had originally planned in January.
The original deal was to buy 118 planes worth an estimated $26 billion. Now the deal is expected to be worth just $10 billion.
Shares in Nintendo (NTDOY) dropped 7% on Monday following underwhelming reviews for the new game, Super Mario Run.
Nintendo's stock has dropped 11% since the mobile game's debut last Thursday. Shares in DeNa, the company that helped develop the game, have slumped nearly 14% over the same period.
Apple (AAPL, Tech30) is in focus as it launches an attack on the European Union's record $14 billion tax ruling.
Apple says European officials singled the company out for a massive tax bill as "a convenient target because it generates lots of headlines."
The company is accused of saving billions of dollars in tax by using loopholes and tax deals in Ireland. The Irish government is also challenging the EU tax ruling.
4. Let's make a deal: Canadian insurance firm Fairfax Financial Holdings (FRFHF) has announced a $4.9 billion deal to take over the Swiss insurance firm Allied World Assurance (AWH).
The cash and stock deal offers an 18% premium over where Allied World shares closed on Friday.
Download CNN MoneyStream for up-to-the-minute market data and news
5. Coming this week:
Monday - Oprah Winfrey interviews Michelle Obama on CBS Tuesday - Nike (NKE) and FedEx (FDX) earnings Wednesday - Apple (AAPL, Tech30) AirPods shipped Thursday - Final Q3 revision of GDP Friday - Final full trading day before the Christmas long weekend
Correction: An earlier version of this story incorrectly reported that Friday would be a shortened trading day on the NYSE.
Hitting 20,000 this year would be an achievement few would have thought possible at the beginning of 2016, when the Dow slumped 2,000 points in the first month, falling below 15,500 points.
Few too predicted that the Dow would rally after a Trump election victory. The Dow futures initially tanked 800 points on election night, but the index actually soared the day after.
2. GDP revision: On Thursday, we'll see how healthy the U.S. economy is when the government revises its GDP for the final time for the third quarter. Last month, the Bureau of Economic Analysis said the economy grew at an annualized rate of 3.2% in the third quarter.
The healthy economy, buoyed by strong consumer spending, led to the Federal Reserve to raise interest rates for the second time in a decade last Wednesday.
3. Earnings on tap: With holiday shopping in full swing, we'll get a look at how two big contributors to the frenzy are doing. First up are FedEx's (FDX) earnings on Tuesday. Its stock has been on the climb lately because shipping volumes have been beating expectations. Though its report won't include all of the holiday shopping season, FedEx is expected to provide a prediction for the busiest months of the year.
Also on Tuesday are Nike (NKE)'s earnings. The sports apparel giant's turf is being encroached on by Under Armour (UA). While Nike crushes Under Armor in revenue, analysts are bigger fans of Under Armour's growth and star leadership.
4. Apple's AirPods are here: Apple's futuristic wireless ear buds are going on sale this week. The $159 gadgets were first announced in September, but mysterious problems forced the company to keep pushing back shipment dates until mid-December.
Apple (AAPL, Tech30) says don't count on your AirPods making it under the Christmas tree. "AirPods will be shipping in limited quantities at launch and customers are encouraged to check online for updates on availability and estimated delivery dates," it said in a press release.
5. Coming this week:
Monday - Oprah Winfrey interviews Michelle Obama on CBS
Tuesday - Nike and FedEx earnings
Wednesday - Apple AirPods shipped
Thursday - Final 3Q revision of GDP
Friday - NYSE closes at 1 p.m.
"I don't think we've ever seen one like this," said Larry Noble, general counsel of the Campaign Legal Center.
 Three ways Trump already faces a conflict of interest
The list of Trump businesses that were paid by the campaign is long.
Trump's hotels and golf clubs received $1.4 million. Some $238,000 went to Trump restaurants and food services.
His son's company, Eric Trump Wine Manufacturing, got $32,196.
All of the money came directly from Trump's own campaign. And it's all legal.
The campaign did not respond to CNN's request for comment.
 Trump's book 'Art of the Deal' is a bestseller again
"If he did it legally and it was in the ordinary course of business, you have to say that he's allowed to do that," Noble said. "If he was doing it to make a profit off of it, and he charged more than he was supposed to have charged, then there is a problem." There is no evidence the Trump campaign did that.
The reports show big and small ticket items.
Mar-a-Lago, Trump's Palm Beach estate, got $423,371. Trump Ice, his bottled water company, got $2,085.
Then there are Trump's restaurants in Trump Tower. The campaign paid Trump Grill $607. Trump Cafe got $94.
"The issue here, in part, was the scale at which it was done," Noble said. "He had these businesses. He could do it at such a tremendous scale."
The workers were making about $25 an hour, said Chuck Jones, president of the union local.
"They're leaving people high and dry in these places in order to exploit Mexican workers at $3 an hour," Jones told CNNMoney on Friday. "These people in Monterrey aren't raising their standard of living out of it."
Related video: Rexnord workers look to Carrier and ask, 'What about me?'
"We're not seeking anything but opportunity to work, and that's being ripped away from us," he said.
Jones, who leads United Steelworkers Local 1999, was himself attacked by Trump on Twitter after telling CNNMoney and other news organizations that the president-elect was "lying his a-- off" when he claimed he was saving 1,100 jobs at Carrier.
In fact, only 800 factory jobs were saved. The other 300 were white-collar administrative and engineering jobs at another Indianapolis facility, positions Carrier never planned to ship to Mexico. Even after Trump's support, 550 Carrier jobs are bound for Mexico, Jones said.
Rexnord told CNNMoney that it will create 50 jobs in Texas.
 Carrier to cut some of the jobs Trump saved
"This has been a very difficult decision, and we understand the human impact it will have on our associates, their families and the Indianapolis community," the company said in a statement. "It is our intent to provide support and transition service for our impacted associates during this difficult time."
Trump's office did not return a message from CNNMoney.
De Jesus was born in the Bronx. When he was in second grade, his mother sent he and his brother Samuel to live with their grandparents in the Dominican Republic for three years while she saved up some money in Puerto Rico. While there, neither he nor his brother attended school -- missing crucial years of education.
The family eventually reunited in Puerto Rico for one year and then soon returned to New York. Back in the Bronx, De Jesus was enrolled in the sixth grade, unable to speak, read or write in English.
For years, he struggled to keep up in school and eventually lost interest. The only thing he wanted to do was play chess. But that all changed when Jon Roure, an advisor from the CollegeBound Initiative, walked into De Jesus' English class.
 I left my six-figure job to start a non-profit
Roure took an interest in the chess loving teen and became his mentor. Soon De Jesus was hitting the books and competing on his high school's chess team. He eventually applied for and got into Skidmore College and qualified for New York state's Higher Education Opportunity Program, which helped him pay for school. In 2014, he earned his master's in special education from The City College of New York through the New York City teaching fellows.
Now 29, De Jesus works for the New York City public school system and has started a chess program at his former high school, where he gives low-income kids a similar chance to succeed. He was recently given the Robin Hood Foundation's Heroes Award, an honor awarded annually to New Yorkers who have overcome seemingly insurmountable obstacles.
This is De Jesus' American Success Story.
What was life like growing up?
My mom left the Dominican Republic to come to the U.S. in 1985. That's when she met my father. But things were very difficult because he was an abusive alcoholic.
Eventually, she met someone who took her in and helped her get on her feet. She remarried when I was in the first grade.
Her new husband was Puerto Rican. They couldn't afford to bring us with them to Puerto Rico so she sent us to the Dominican Republic to live with my grandparents.
My grandfather was a farmer in the Dominican Republic and I'd go with him to the rice fields, but I didn't attend school.
[After three years, my brother and I] moved to Puerto Rico with my mother and stepfather and I went into the fifth grade there.
It became immediately obvious that I didn't know how to read or write. I was ashamed and humiliated. I remember telling my mom and she sat me down on her lap and taught me the ABC's and how to read and write.
 Former high school rebel, now head of U.S. education system
There was a lot of cultural tension between Dominicans and Puerto Ricans. [The Puerto Ricans] called us "los monos," the monkeys of Santo Domingo. I didn't comprehend the racism. Then my mom was attacked and we decided to move back to the U.S.
Right before we moved, I found out that my father had passed away.
How did you fit into American life?
I didn't know English. I was in the sixth grade and I didn't understand anything.
I got really upset with my mother because I found out that there were classes in Spanish, but I was put in classes taught just in English.
My brother and I spent most of our free time at home. One day, he discovered a 99-cent store. It was the most amazing thing in the world to us!
He bought himself a cardboard chess set. He read the instructions and moved the pieces and taught me how to play. Clearly, we didn't learn correctly because the directions were in English, but it was something to do and we became obsessed.
Chess became my first language. It was my first chance to be connected with the world and be accepted and motivated to do something with my life. We began to compete in tournaments hosted by Chess in the Schools.
I thought no one was going to beat me, but I lost every game for a year. Every loss motivated me to work harder.
In high school, I played chess relentlessly. One day it just clicked. I was just winning. I loved that feeling.
But I was still doing very poorly in school.
What turned your attitude around about school?
There was a man who came into my freshman English class. When he spoke he sounded so educated and eloquent.
He told me, "I'm Jon Roure, and I'm your CollegeBound adviser. Is college something that you want?"
I told him I just wanted to play chess.
He told me that I could play in college, but if I wanted to go anywhere in life I'd need an education.
We became good friends. He was Puerto Rican and helped shed some light on the experiences I'd gone through.
He would organize college tours. It was cool, but I wasn't feeling any of it until we visited Skidmore College. I could totally see myself living there. From then on, the drive I had for chess went toward academics.
[After I applied,] I waited for that envelope from Skidmore. One day my mom says, "Juan, the big folder is here." I read the first word: "Congratulations" and I started jumping on my bed like a madman.
 NYU dean wants to teach low-income students 'how to fish'
All mom cared about were the numbers. I said, "Mom, [it costs] nearly $55,000 a year." She started crying: "I make $15,000 a year."
I told her, "Mom, you do understand that I have a scholarship?" And she started jumping on the bed harder than me!
My brother followed in my footsteps to Skidmore as well.
Why did you choose to go back to the Bronx and work with kids?
When I graduated from high school I made a promise, "I'm leaving the Bronx and I'm never coming back."
I felt this tremendous feeling of triumph. I was going forward and I didn't want to look back.
 One immigrant's path from cleaning houses to Stanford professor
But when I graduated from Skidmore, I was so grateful for all the help that I'd received from my friends and my professors and Jon, who I was still very close to. And so as I walked across that stage, the first man to have a degree in my family, I thought, "I can't live with myself if I don't go back and do the same for others as others did for me."
Is there one person who has helped you the most?
My mom is my hero. She was brave enough to leave her children to make a better world for her family. She's where I get my fighting instinct and motivation to be a better person.

Why do you think Robin Hood Foundation chose you as one of its Heroes and do you think you deserve the title?
My first question was: "What does that mean?"
I feel like I deserve a lot of things, but to be a hero? I'm an educator, I'm a teacher. A hero is someone who has a huge positive impact where they are. I'm not one to say if I'm a hero. Ask my students if I'm a hero and that will be your answer.
Is there one thing that you do every day that helps you to achieve your goals?
The number one thing is calling or texting my students. They're what keeps me sharp. It's easy to get lost in personal success. But when I see them every day it's a reality check.
How do you define success?
Success is what do you do every single day to make this world a better place.
I spoke to Bill Sandbrook, the CEO of U.S. Concrete (USCR), shortly after Trump's win. Sandbrook voted for Trump.
At the time, Sandbrook said he was optimistic that Trump's pro-growth policies -- particularly the plan to boost infrastructure spending -- would be good for this company.
I caught up with him earlier this week to get a sense of what he thinks now that Trump has made some key Cabinet appointments.
Sandbrook, who said he will be going to the inauguration in Washington next month, is still bullish on the outlook for the U.S. economy under Trump.
"I'm just as optimistic now about Trump. In his victory speech, he talked about infrastructure and it gave us hope," Sandbrook said.
 CEO who voted for Trump expects construction boom
U.S Concrete won't be bidding directly for any of this federal money. It acts as a subcontractor for big construction firms that will be competing for federal business.
The company sells ready-mixed concrete to construction firms in the San Francisco Bay area, New York and northern New Jersey, the metro Washington, DC area and Dallas. U.S. Concrete is based in Euless, Texas -- a suburb of Fort Worth.
More infrastructure spending should also help construction equipment giants Caterpillar (CAT) and John Deere (DE) as well as steel firms U.S. Steel (X) and Nucor (NUE).
Those stocks have also surged since Election Day. Many of them have been doing well for months. Investors assumed a Clinton or Trump win would lead to a bigger budget for infrastructure since the proposals have mostly received bipartisan support.
But Trump's win has kicked the infrastructure rally into even higher gear.
Fund managers for the JOHCM US Small Mid Cap Equity Fund wrote in a report this week that they expect construction firm Jacobs Engineering (JEC), building materials supplier Martin Marietta (MLM) and trucker Old Dominion Freight Line (ODFL) to be big winners too.
But Ben Morton, a portfolio manager focusing on infrastructure at Cohen & Steers, said the market still needs clarity about what exactly Trump wants to do. Will Trump focus more on bridges and roads? Shipping ports? The electric grid? Airports?
"This is complicated. A lot needs to take place to increase private sector investment in infrastructure," Morton said. "Infrastructure spending will be a priority, but with that said, nothing is a slam dunk. This could take time to develop."
 Deere plows higher on Trump construction boom hopes
Sandbrook conceded that the details of any stimulus plan still need to be worked out. Will it be a public-private partnership as some suggest? Will Congress really be willing to approve $1 trillion in spending or will it turn out to be less than that?
Sandbrook isn't sure that Trump will get the $1 trillion he's called for. But he's still confident that any large-scale infrastructure plan will benefit his firm.
He thinks that Trump's calls for tax cuts and fewer regulations could wind up giving U.S. Concrete a bigger boost for the long haul.
"A vibrant economy is more important than short-term infrastructure spending," he said.
Sandbrook said he also wasn't worried that Trump would continue to engage in heated protectionist rhetoric -- despite having Steve Bannon as an adviser.
There are some concerns that Trump could start trade wars with Mexico and China due to his proposals for big tariffs. Cracking down on immigration -- with repeated calls to build a wall on the border with Mexico for example -- have made many nervous too.
 Why Trump is wrong about Caterpillar being hurt by foreign competition
But Sandbrook thinks that when it comes to the economy and trade, Trump will rely more on advisers like Treasury Secretary pick Steven Mnuchin and Commerce Secretary nominee Wilbur Ross, than Bannon. And both are more pragmatists than ideologues.
"The protectionist rhetoric on the campaign was a means to an end," Sandbrook said, adding that Trump needs to advocate for fair trade as opposed to trade barriers.
Still, Sandbrook said one big concern about Trump is the unpredictability factor. His penchant for tweeting whatever he thinks -- and somewhat impulsively it would appear -- could be a problem.
Blue chip American companies like Boeing (BA), Lockheed Martin (LMT) and United Technologies (UTX) subsidiary Carrier have all come under attack from Trump. It's not just the media that Trump appears to bear grudges against.
Sandbrook said that big businesses -- and the market -- probably need to be prepared for more of the same for at least the next four years.
"Trump controls the stage. His advisers may want to dial him back though," he said.
Coal employment, Murray said, "can't be brought back to where it was before the election of Barack Obama."
Besieged coal workers were among the country's Rust Belt voters that helped propel Trump to a stunning victory in November. And Trump in turn has promised to pull the plug on President Obama's "job-destroying" regulations.
"For those miners, get ready because you're going to be working your asses off!" Trump said in a May speech.
Murray, a fierce opponent of Obama, believes Trump has the "courage and commitment to stop the destruction of the coal industry."
However, the CEO of Murray Energy added, "that will be about all he can initially do."

 What if Trump dumps Paris climate deal?
Coal vs. clean energy
Murray noted that coal's role in supplying America's electricity is shrinking fast.
Thanks to the abundance of U.S. natural gas from shale sources, coal's share of domestic electric generation has plunged to just around 30% this year, compared with nearly 50% in 2008, according to the Energy Information Administration.
Murray is confident that Trump's promises to rip up Obama-era EPA regulations will prevent coal's market share from crumbling even further.
"If he just stops it where it is, that will be a wonderful thing," Murray said.
Wall Street analysts, like Murray, believe that coal faces tall odds in mounting a meaningful comeback in the short term.
"Stay away, or be cautious, on dirty power," Brian Chin, U.S. electric utility analyst at Bank of America Merrill Lynch, said at a recent conference.
He argued that natural gas has been the major driver of coal plant troubles and renewable energy sources like wind and solar continue to get cheaper.
"The trend toward clean and green has been halted, but not reversed," Chin said.
Longer term, Murray is optimistic that coal will "come back slightly" thanks to the development of technology that allows plants to use less coal and create fewer emissions.

 Trump could help --but not save -- coal country
Obama the 'greatest destroyer'
While Murray acknowledges the rise of natural gas, he more directly blames coal's demise on Obama, whom he called the "greatest destroyer that America ever had." Murray Energy has frequently clashed with the Obama administration, filing about a dozen lawsuits since he took office in 2009.
The industry pressures have forced Murray Energy to aggressively cut jobs. The company's headcount peaked at 8,400 in May 2015, but today it employs 6,000 workers. Murray Energy had threatened to lay off another 4,400 workers in July due to financial stress. However, the miner said the layoffs did not take place as the company avoided defaulting on its debt.
Still, most of the 400 workers at Murray Energy's Ohio Valley Coal subsidiary lost their jobs in November when the division shut down due to depleted coal reserves and the struggling coal market.
Like many in the coal industry, Murray recalled that Hillary Clinton promised during the campaign to "put a lot of coal miners and coal companies out of business."
Murray said many voters in coal country saw Clinton as an "extension" of Obama. "They don't want Hillary Clinton's welfare. They want jobs," he said.
Research suggests that this storyline may have played a key role in Clinton's demise of support in the Rust Belt.
According to labor market analytics firm Emsi, Trump won every single county in Michigan, Ohio, Wisconsin and three other Rustbelt states that have become more reliant on mining, manufacturing and agriculture jobs over the past 15 years.

 Tillerson's Exxon didn't put America first
Coal workers demand action
Now that Trump has won, coal workers around the country have sent an SOS to the president-elect to quickly stem the bleeding.
Hundreds of coal workers sent an open letter on Thursday to Trump demanding "action that will bring relief to coal communities."
Specifically, the coal workers called for legislation to protect miners' health and retirement benefits and to pay for the retraining of workers.
The coal workers also called out coal CEOs and execs for continuing to "reap multi-million dollar bonuses" even while slashing jobs and proposing cuts to pensions.
--CNNMoney's Heather Long contributed to this report.
 Health care chief: Obamacare repeal will be 'chaos'
Just over 4 million people signed up for coverage on the federal exchange through Dec. 10. But health officials said activity ramped up in the days leading up to the Dec. 15 deadline, with some 700,000 people selecting policies on Dec. 12 and Dec. 13.
President Barack Obama announced at a press conference Friday that a record 670,000 people signed up on Thursday -- the largest number of Obamacare sign-ups in a single day.
The numbers show that President-elect Donald Trump's vow to repeal Obamacare has not deterred people from signing up for policies on the exchanges.
 GOP timetable for getting Obamacare repeal to Trump is ambitious
The news comes just weeks before lawmakers reconvene for the new session of Congress on January 3. Republicans intend to move swiftly to repeal major parts of the Affordable Care Act through a budget reconciliation bill.
Since Trump's election in November, Obama administration officials and Democratic officeholders have been playing defense on Obamacare. They've emphasized that repealing the ACA could result in millions of Americans facing premium hikes and unleash chaos cross the insurance market. They've also warned that even a multi-year "delay" of the repeal would likely wreak havoc for many patients who have coverage through Obamacare.
Open enrollment, which began Nov. 1, runs through Jan. 31. The deadline to sign up for Jan. 1 coverage was extended last year, as well.
MJ Lee contributed to this report.
It's not a surprise, given that Wells Fargo's reputation with customers has tanked after the scandal, and allegations of mistreating employees. The drop in account openings can also be tied to the fact that Wells Fargo has scrapped the unrealistic sales goals that led workers to open several accounts for each customer. Many former workers say that was what led to the illegal tactics in the first place.
Another sign that Wells Fargo continues to struggle: Wells Fargo said customer interactions with branch bankers declined by 14% in November from last year.
"We know we have more work ahead of us," Mary Mack, Wells Fargo's head of community banking, said in a statement.
Mack, who replaced controversial executive Carrie Tolstedt in July, said during a conference call with analysts that account openings may have been muted by "seasonal" slowness caused by the Thanksgiving holiday in November.
"My No. 1 priority remains rebuilding trust," Mack said.
Wells Fargo said customer-initiated closures of checking accounts ticked up by 2% in November from last year. But that figure was down 13% from October.
 Wells Fargo scandal spreads to Prudential
In at least a couple of areas, things seemed to be stabilizing a tiny bit. While its new credit card applications plunged 45% in November from last year, they actually rose by 3% from October.
Wells Fargo also said that its customer loyalty scores increased slightly in November from October, though they remain down year-ago levels.
Overall, Wells Fargo listed 23.6 million primary consumer checking customers in November. That is up 3.5% from a year ago but flat with October.
Mack said she expects the growth rate to "continue to decline in the near term."
It probably doesn't help that more damaging allegations about Wells Fargo's practices continue to emerge.
Last week, a lawsuit filed against Prudential alleged that Wells Fargo employees appeared to have signed up customers for a low-cost Prudential life insurance policy without their knowledge or permission. Some of the insurance premiums may have come from dormant Wells Fargo accounts, according to the lawsuit, which was filed by former Prudential employees.
Wells Fargo has said it's "deeply concerned" by the allegations and is working with Prudential (PRU) to investigate.
And this week Wells Fargo was dealt another blow when it became the first bank to be penalized for failing to come with a post-financial crisis requirement of creating an adequate plan to dismantle itself in an orderly way in the event of a bankruptcy.
 This is why Obamacare matters, Democrats say
Ending Obamacare would mean that nearly everyone in the Top 1%, who earn more than $774,000 a year, would enjoy a hefty tax cut, averaging $33,000, according to a new report by the non-partisan Tax Policy Center. Those in the Top 0.1% would get an average tax cut of about $197,000.
Other Americans, however, would not be as fortunate.
Obamacare provides federal tax subsidies for enrollees with incomes below $47,520 for a single person or $97,200 for a family of four. Some 85% of the roughly 10.4 million people enrolled this year receive subsidies to lower their premiums. Those earning even less -- $29,700 for an individual and $60,750 for a family of four -- are also eligible for cost-sharing subsidies that reduce their deductibles and out-of-pocket expenses. These would disappear if the health reform law were dismantled.
 Health care chief: Obamacare repeal will be 'chaos'
That would result in an average tax increase of $90 for the lowest-income taxpayers, who make less than $25,000 a year, the Tax Policy Center reports. However, the average masks a wide variation. Most households would see no change, but about 7% would see a tax cut of about $1,200, on average, while 4% would face a massive hike of $3,900, mainly because they'd lose their subsidies.
Middle class households would be hit with an average tax increase of $80, but that is also misleading. About 94% of these taxpayers, who make between $52,000 and $89,000, would see a tax cut of $110, but 3% would be socked with a $6,200 hike because of the elimination of the subsidies.
Commercial farmers could no longer afford to buy Courteney's products, said Gale Rice, who cofounded the business in 1992 with her late husband John. Tourism also dried up, wiping out a big market for the boots.
Economic instability, hyperinflation and cash shortages have all struck Zimbabwe over the last decade.
To survive the storm, Courteney changed its sales focus and now 99% of its footwear leaves the country.
From the beginning Courteney had established a strong American and European following. Leading gun and rifle manufacturer in Birmingham, England -- Westley Richards -- is one stockist, and Courtney is also distributed in southern Africa, Australia, Germany, Italy and elsewhere in Europe.
"With very great effort we kept the workshop producing right throughout the last collapse," said Rice.
The boots sell for anywhere between $299 and $999 depending on the style and the gameksin used.

To maintain its high standards, her husband John, who had been a passionate shoemaker from the age of 15, stipulated from the beginning that the company would spend nine working days manufacturing a shoe. He also insisted on having no more than 30 pairs of shoes in production each day.
"Courteney was the biggest part of our marriage and working together was deeply fulfilling," Rice said.
But while it was fulfilling, it was also challenging. Rice recalled: "John once pulled out all our Christmas cards to each other and said to me, 'Do you know that in every single card you've described the past year as "difficult"?' "
All of Courteney's boots are made to order, which Rice said is critical so it doesn't have expensive, unsold merchandise lying around. But while Courteney's ethos has always been about local craftsmanship, there was a period when it was forced to outsource manufacturing to South Africa.
Rice says that in 2008 -- when the country experienced one of the worst hyperinflation cases in history -- planes were backed up at the airport and Courteney wasn't able to move its boots out of Zimbabwe.
The solution was to temporarily move manufacturing to South Africa. These days the boots are made back in Zimbabwe, which still creates problems. For example, Rice notes that Courteney's profits have been down recently, hit by an increase in production costs because of rising prices for electricity, labor and raw materials. "There is little consistency in pricing in the country at present," she said.
But Courteney has survived worse, by adapting to circumstances and by maintaining its traditional values of craftsmanship and a word-of-mouth reputation. "We're old-fashioned," said Rice, "and happy to be so."
Actelion and Sanofi declined to comment on the matter.
American pharmaceutical firm Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) recently ditched plans to buy Actelion. The Swiss firm immediately said it was in talks with another bidder, but refused to name names.
2. Update from Wells Fargo: Wells Fargo is scheduled to give an update at 9 a.m. ET on how customers reacted in November to the bank's fake account scandal. The bank already reported that new account openings plummeted 44% in October compared to last year.
3. Global market overview: It looks like it could be a relatively mellow Friday in the markets.
U.S. stock futures are holding steady.
European markets are slipping a bit in early trading, though the moves are small.
Asian markets are closing the week with mixed results.
All three main U.S. indexes hit record highs earlier this week. The Dow Jones industrial average is very close to the 20,000 point level.
Before the Bell newsletter: Key market news. In your inbox. Subscribe now!
4. Economics: The U.S. Census Bureau is scheduled to report new real estate data on Friday that will give insight into the state of the American housing market.
Details on housing starts and building permits from November will be released at 8:30 a.m. ET.
Download CNN MoneyStream for up-to-the-minute market data and news
5. Coming this week:
Friday - "Star Wars Rogue One" nationwide release in the U.S.
Both countries offloaded Treasuries during the month, but China dumped far more: its holdings dropped by $41.3 billion, while Japan's fell by just $4.5 billion.
 Trump attacks China on trade but misses the mark
China's willingness to lend vast sums to the U.S. government has drawn a lot of attention in recent years. Since September 2008, the Treasury Department has ranked it as the biggest foreign creditor to the U.S., with the exception of one month in early 2015 and again with its latest update.
The situation has raised concerns about Beijing's leverage over the United States. President-elect Donald Trump has claimed the opposite, suggesting it gives the United States "a lot of power" over China.
Experts say the reality is more complicated, arguing that the debt relationship binds the world's two largest economies closely together. Trump has suggested he will take a more confrontational stance toward China on trade, threatening to slap tariffs of as much as 45% on Chinese goods.
 8 reasons why starting a trade war with China is a bad idea
For years, China spent trillions of yuan buying Treasuries as a way of stopping its currency from getting too strong even as its economy grew rapidly. That made China's exports more competitive, but it also helped to keep interest rates in the U.S. lower than they would have been.

But as China's economy has slowed in recent years, huge sums of money have been flowing out of the country, putting downward pressure on the yuan. The surge in the dollar since Trump's election victory has piled on the pressure.
 Who owns America's debt?
Beijing has been selling some of its enormous stockpile of foreign exchange reserves, much of it U.S. government debt, in order to buy yuan. It wants to avoid a repeat of the sudden plunges in the currency that panicked markets in August 2015 and January 2016.
China's foreign currency war chest fell to its lowest level in more than five years in November.
Japan isn't the biggest single holder of U.S. debt. At the last count, the Federal Reserve had about $2.5 trillion.
The government-set deadline is here. But the new bills haven't arrived at many banks and ATMs even as Venezuelans are standing in endless lines waiting to exchange or deposit their cash.
The pandemonium epitomizes the deep economic chaos Venezuela currently faces. The currency has crashed and inflation has skyrocketed. Venezuelans now need to carry stacks of cash just to buy food and medicine, which are already in short supply.
 4 reasons why Venezuela became the world's worst economy
"Nobody has the new bills...Nobody," says Alejandro, a 24-year old who lives in Maracaibo, Venezuela. Alejandro, who requested CNN not use his full name, said the shops he visited Thursday didn't have the new cash. "With the 100 bolivar bill, nobody can pay for anything."
Some Venezuelans reported on social media Thursday that ATM's from the state-run Banco de Venezuela were still dispensing 100 bolivar notes.
Central bank President Nelson Merentes said the bills will arrive in the country and be distributed in a "progressive manner" to banks, a spokesperson told CNNMoney, without providing more specific details on timing.
 Venezuela shuts down border with Colombia
Crane Currency in Boston, which Bloomberg reported is printing the new bills, declined to comment.
Opposition leaders in Venezuela derided Maduro's decision to take the 100 bolivar note out of circulation, arguing more serious steps needed to be taken.
"We need to defend our local currency by lowering our fiscal deficit and inflation, not by withdrawing bills from circulation," Congressman Jose Guerra said during National Assembly session earlier this week.
 Venezuela is replacing its biggest note with a coin
The government decided to print the higher value bills to keep up with inflation. Amid skyrocketing inflation, Venezuelans paid for goods by weighing stacks of cash instead of counting bills.
The IMF forecasts inflation in Venezuela to rise 470% this year and 1660% next year. In November alone, its currency, the bolivar, lost about 55% of its value. Venezuela's largest bill, the 100 bolivar note, is currently worth 2 cents on the popular, unofficial exchange rate.
"If (the government) doesn't resolve the economy's serious inflation problem...those [new] bills are going to be insufficient," says Asdrubal Oliveros, director of Eco Analitica, a research group in Venezuela.
 Venezuela is printing a 20,000 bolivar note
On Monday, Maduro closed the border with Colombia for 72 hours to prevent anyone from going across the border to exchange or spend money. It's not immediately clear if the border will reopen Thursday night.
Although Maduro's socialist government advocates policies for the country's poor, experts say low-income Venezuelans will be most affected by the cash crisis because many don't have bank accounts and live entirely on cash.
"It's going to have a significant, negative short-term impact on the lower-income population," says Siobhan Morden head of Latin America fixed income strategy at Nomura Holdings. "The economy did not need another negative shock."
-- Osmary Hernandez reported from Caracas. Flora Charner reported from Rio de Janeiro. Patrick Gillespie reported from York.
The president-elect's company employs 22,450 people and made $9.5 billion in revenues last year, PrivCo. says.
It means Trump Organization is bigger than well-known private companies such as Major League Baseball, McKinsey & Co. and Bloomberg LP, the company founded by former New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg, according to PrivCo data.
 Experts say Trump's plan to leave business isn't enough
There's growing concern that Trump's business empire is a huge conflict of interest as he enters the White House. Some decisions he makes as president are likely to have a direct impact on whether Trump Organization profits or not.
As a private company that is not listed on the stock exchange, Trump Organization does not have to disclose its financial information to the public.
Instead, PrivCo compiles makes estimates on companies' worth based on all available information as well as interviews and industry trends. It also looks at the financials of similarly sized companies that are public.
Trump owns or has a position in more than 500 companies, according to a CNN analysis. That includes about 150 that have done business in at least 25 foreign countries, including Turkey, Qatar and Saudi Arabia.
 Trump sold stocks, but what about his hedge fund millions?
Trump tweeted this week that he will leave be "leaving my businesses" before January 20 when he takes office. He plans to hand over Trump Organization to his adult sons, Donald Jr. and Eric Trump.
It may be a good time for Trump to step away as CEO.
"Based on our own sources, we actually see [Trump Organization] dropping below $9 billion for 2016," Evan Danckwerth, senior analyst at PrivCo. That's mainly because the luxury real estate market in New York overall is struggling.
The Trump Organization did not immediately respond to CNNMoney's request for comment.
It's a huge undertaking with a simple goal: Transparency.
There's good reason for businesses to care. The Natural Resources Defense Council estimates that unchecked climate change could cost the U.S. economy almost $2 trillion per year in current dollars by 2100.
The task force was put together at the behest of the major world economies known as the G-20. It released its report Wednesday.
Companies today might spell out the financial risks from global warming, like a supply chain that runs through a region vulnerable to flooding, in a sustainability report. But they are not required to put conclusions in their regular earnings reports. And they might not publish it at all.
Bruno Bertocci, head of the sustainable equities team at UBS, which was part of the task force, told CNNMoney the group is aiming for "better functioning, more efficient markets."
Better disclosure of climate risks would let investors and the public make better decisions, he said.
Acknowledging the danger of climate change, in other words, is just smart business. And saving the planet? Think of it as what economists call a positive externality.
Predicting the effects of climate change is no easy feat. If companies adopt the task force's recommendations, they'll have to change how they disclose information on corporate governance, strategy, risk management, and metrics and targets.
 Exxon's longtime CEO would be America's emissary on climate change
Climate watchdogs are encouraged but fear it might not be enough.
Dylan Tanner, executive director and co-founder of InfluenceMap, a nonprofit examining how corporations affect climate policy, says public sector intervention is imperative.
He said that oil and energy companies, the worst offenders when it comes to emitting harmful greenhouse gases, are the least likely to adopt recommendations at this point.
Tanner told CNNMoney that if reporting risks from climate change "becomes widespread, it becomes the de facto standard."
That kind of change, however, doesn't happen overnight.
"The big issue is the speed in which the development comes," Tanner said. It might take 20 years for a new standard to emerge organically, and the world might not have two decades to waste.
"I don't think we can wait," he concludes. "Impacts of climate change are coming."
Activists fear that only legislation will make companies transparent about their environmental goals and risks, but Bertocci makes the case that there are plenty of reasons for companies to opt in.
He points out that the effects of climate change are unavoidable. "[You] don't have to believe in anything except for what you can see for yourself," Bertocci said, adding that this is "real life, put-your-hand-right-on-it kind of risk we're talking about."
The report serves as a detailed guide for companies ready to disclose that information. It offers advice on the type of risks that might impact firms across all industries, and how to figure out costs if the planet's temperature rises by 2 degrees Celsius -- a scenario scientists say could lead to mass droughts, floods and heat waves.
 What if Trump dumps Paris climate deal?
The report is also an attempt to standardize the language of disclosing risk. It offers a way to make sure companies, which today use different guidelines to figure out climate risk, are talking about global warming the same way.
Bertocci suggests that a global move away from fossil fuels, codified during last year's Paris agreement, suggests that climate change evaluations for companies are already going mainstream.
When G20 heads of state review the report over the summer, some might decide to turn the recommendations into legislation.
France has already passed a law requiring investment managers to report on their exposure to climate risk. Others may follow suit, limiting a possible effort by Trump to reverse President Obama's efforts to check climate change.
But it's hard to imagine that an American president who devalues the importance of fighting climate change wouldn't affect consumer preferences, or allow corporations to loosen rules for emissions.
Scientists said last month that the election of Trump, who has referred to climate change as a Chinese hoax and called for a cancellation of the Paris agreement, is cause for grave concern.
Since then, the president-elect has proposed a number of Cabinet nominees, like ExxonMobil CEO Rex Tillerson for secretary of state, that have further alarmed environmentalists.
Still, experts in the field are cautiously optimistic. Christina Herman, program director of the Interfaith Center on Corporate Responsibility, a coalition of religious and values-focused investors, told CNNMoney that the recommendations are "a really important first step."
She's hopeful that the harms that businesses suffer from climate change will encourage the president-elect to take it seriously.
Trump is "certainly appointing people who don't seem to be as concerned about climate change risk," she said, "but he's hearing from companies and investors who are deeply concerned about it."
It was a huge blow to GoPro, which had been trying to position itself as both a media and gadget company. GoPro even got energy drink maker Red Bull, a big sponsor of extreme sports, to invest in the company and set up a channel on Microsoft's (MSFT, Tech30) Xbox Live.
 GoPro announces big job cuts
That news followed the recall of its new Karma drone because it was losing power while in flight. The company also announced disastrous earnings in early November.
The Karma recall is a huge blow to the company. Investors were already worried that the drone, which GoPro first teased in May 2015, was coming to the market way too late after a series of delays for its launch.
The consumer drone market is highly competitive and currently dominated by China's DJI and France's Parrot.
GoPro also needs to prove to skeptical investors, as well as consumers, that its newest line of action cameras -- the Hero5 -- are worth buying as well.
 Tech gifts to avoid
GoPro no longer has the action camera market all to itself. Sony (SNE), Xiaomi and Polaroid all have similar products to the Hero. And the improvements that Apple (AAPL, Tech30) has made to its camera in the iPhone 7 make Tim Cook's company a tougher rival as well.
These problems have led to periodic takeover rumors, but they have failed to lift GoPro's stock price for long. Investors are growing increasingly worried about the company's future.
GoPro's sales have been sinking this year despite the new products. And the company is still losing lots of money. Analysts are predicting another loss in 2017 as well.
 Instant Karma's gonna get you -- GoPro recalls drone
The company has also come under fire for the compensation package of its CEO and founder Nick Woodman. Despite GoPro's troubles, Woodman was the highest paid CEO in America in 2014, with a compensation package worth $284.5 million.
Most of that money was tied to the value of GoPro's stock though, which skyrocketed as high as nearly $100 a share shortly after its IPO in June 2014 but has fallen more than 90% since then to around $8.60.
Woodman's compensation plunged in 2015 too as a result. But investors are still wondering if Woodman will ever get the company back on track.
GoPro may have simply been a fad that has peaked -- a 21st century pet rock for extreme sports enthusiasts.
In July 2015, when Trump's campaign was still in its early days, "Trump: The Art of the Deal" was ranked #1,128 on the Amazon (AMZN, Tech30) Best Seller list.
The book had leaped to #304 by August 2016 -- shortly after the Republican National Convention. Now it's #97 overall (and #1 on Amazon's Entrepreneurship list).
The book was first published in 1987 and became an instant hit. It's part memoir and part business advice.
 Trump just can't let go of feud with Vanity Fair
The book had faded in popularity by the time Trump announced his run for president. He revived it by publishing a new paperback edition in October 2015 while he was campaigning. It came out shortly before he released, "Crippled America."
Trump started encouraging the thousands of fans who attended his rallies to bring copies of his books. For donors who gave $184 to his campaign, Trump even offered a signed copy of the original edition of "Art of the Deal" (now out of print).
Since the election, the book has become a popular gift at some Wall Street holiday parties, where co-workers have "white elephant gift exchanges," according to financial professionals. It's also getting a lot of attention in Washington and among journalists. People close to Trump say his books offer clues on how he'll lead in the White House.
 Janet Yellen to Donald Trump: I'm not going anywhere
The paperback version sells for $16.99, although Amazon is offering it for just $9.45.
The book is co-authored with Tony Schwartz, who became a major critic of Trump during the campaign and said he deeply regretted working on the book.
Trump "is a man who cares only about himself," Schwartz told CNN in October. "He is prepared to blow up American democracy if that's what it takes to get a sense of self back."
On the campaign trail, Trump claimed "The Art of the Deal" was "the No. 1 selling business book of all time." Politifact rated that statement as "false" last year, but that may change if sales continue to boom.
Amazon did not respond to CNNMoney's request for comment.
When Murebwayire started her business back in 2004, with just $200, she was watching every penny. The death of her husband had left her struggling to feed her four children.
"The idea of making this banana wine came to me as a way out of severe poverty that struck shortly after I lost my husband," she says.
Equipped with a family recipe for banana wine -- a popular drink widely brewed at home in Rwanda -- Murebwayire and three business partners launched Coproviba.

Read: Craft beer made this home brewer a billionaire
The company now has an annual turnover of around $125,000. That may not sound like much, but in Rwanda it's enough for Murebwayire to employ 32 people.
Murebwayire says her wine has attracted interest from importers in the United States, where a Florida winery already produces banana wine. But the importers decided the quality of her bottles -- recycled beer bottles -- was not good enough.

Murebwayire is working to fix that. Meanwhile, she's focusing on growing the business closer to home.
Each week, Coproviba produces 29,000 bottles of Ibanga banana wine, sold mainly in Rwanda and to neighboring Tanzania for around 40 U.S. cents a bottle.
No place for a woman?
The business is now on the up, but getting there has been an uphill climb. Murebwayire says she faced hostility as the first woman in the country to run a banana wine business.
She began making wine the traditional way, ripening bananas by burying them underground in banana leaves for four days, before squeezing them by hand and fermenting the juice for two days before bottling.
These days she has machines to do the squeezing and the wine ferments for two months, but it still has the same brownish, milky appearance and banana taste.
Mondelez, which also owns Cadbury, Nabisco, Ritz and Toblerone, was set up to be a global snacks giant while Kraft, owner of the classic mac & cheese, Velveeta, Oscar Mayer and Kool-Aid, focused more on grocery brand staples popular in North America.
But here's why a reunification of the two companies might make sense. Kraft is now part of Kraft Heinz (KHC), which is backed by Warren Buffett.
The Oracle of Omaha's Berkshire Hathaway (BRKB) teamed up with Brazilian private equity giant 3G in 2013 to buy Heinz.
Heinz then bought Kraft last year.
 Stuff your face with food and beverage stocks
Since then, there has been frequent chatter about Kraft Heinz potentially looking to buy Mondelez. The speculation has increased in the past month following reports that 3G was planning to raise up to $10 billion for new takeovers in the food industry.
Mondelez has also been viewed as being vulnerable to a takeover after its efforts to buy Hershey (HSY) earlier this year were repeatedly rebuffed. Mondelez finally abandoned its attempt to buy Hershey in August.
Adding to the intrigue?
One of the biggest investors in Mondelez is activist investor Bill Ackman of Pershing Square Capital Management.
And Ackman also is the largest shareholder of Restaurant Brands (QSR) -- the fast food giant formed when 3G merged Burger King with coffee and donut chain Tim Hortons. Guess who is also a big owner of Restaurant Brands? Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway.
 Paging Jerry Seinfeld! Kellogg near all-time high
So for all these reasons, a deal could make sense. But it's worth noting that Buffett flatly denied reports of a Kraft Heinz-Mondelez deal in an interview with CNBC in August 2015. Of course, that was more than a year ago now. Things may have changed.
And the market is clearly betting on more takeovers involving some of your favorite supermarket staples. Kellogg's (K) stock surged earlier this year on rumors that Kraft Heinz was targeting the cereal maker. The speculation quickly died though.
Investors have also been wondering if General Mills (GIS), Campbell Soup (CPB) or ConAgra (CAG) could be a target for 3G and Berkshire as well.
Hershey could even also be back in play for that matter. Berkshire recently cashed out of its investment in gum maker Wrigley in October, selling its minority stake to privately-held candy giant Mars so it could take full control of Wrigley.
 Hershey earnings are more treat than trick
Berkshire Hathaway already owns See's Candies. Adding Hershey to the mix could potentially make sense -- assuming that Buffett and 3G don't look to buy Mondelez and Cadbury instead.
So it will be interesting to see if Buffett -- who also owns a big stake in Coca-Cola (KO) and famously drinks LOTS of Cherry Coke -- will eventually wind up buying another company famous for sugary sweetness.
--CNNMoney's Alanna Petroff contributed to this story.
"Exxon missed out on shale. They dismissed it, didn't take it seriously," said Fadel Gheit, a veteran energy analyst who covers Exxon at Oppenheimer.
Tillerson, who is leaving after a decade in charge, has admitted Exxon was late to the shale party.
"What's gone on here in North America, has been, I think, nothing short of extraordinary. And I would be less than honest if I were to say to you we saw it all coming, because we did not, quite frankly," Tillerson said in a June 2012 speech at the Council on Foreign Relations.
Tillerson said Exxon "grossly underestimated" the amount of shale oil in the U.S. and new technology's ability to affordably pump it. In many ways, ExxonMobil (XOM) CEO's legacy is tainted by his failure to believe in the American energy revolution.
 Exxon would win if Tillerson helps lift Russian sanctions
All of this means Exxon did not fully participate in the oil jobs boom either. Goldman Sachs has estimated that the shale oil and gas revolution created roughly 233,000 jobs between mid-2009 and late 2014.
However, Exxon's U.S. workforce didn't expand much during that period. The company has said it employed just over 31,300 workers in 2014, compared with nearly 29,900 in 2009.
As of the end of 2015, nearly 60% of Exxon's 73,500 total workers are employed outside of the U.S.
It stands to reason that by missing out on shale and focusing overseas, Exxon did more hiring in foreign countries like Nigeria, Russia, Canada and Kazakhstan than in the Bakken oilfields of North Dakota or deep in Texas.
That's another irony given Trump's shaming of Ford (F), Carrier (UTX), and other U.S. companies for shipping jobs overseas.
In a statement, Exxon noted that it is the largest U.S. producer of natural gas and has invested billions of dollars along the Gulf Coast.
"These investments will not only expand refining and chemical manufacturing capacity, but also bring economic growth and create jobs," Exxon said.
Exxon said that Gulf Coast investments such as an expansion of its Beaumont polyethylene plant could create more than 28,000 temporary construction jobs and more than 1,200 permanent jobs over the next few years.
Still, Tillerson's focus on searching for oil in Russia and elsewhere also runs counter to Trump's promise for "complete American energy independence."
"America's incredible energy potential remains untapped. It's a wound that is totally self-inflicted," Trump said in a May speech. "Imagine a world in which our foes, and the oil cartels, can no longer use energy as a weapon." Trump blamed President Obama for keeping America "dependent on others."
Tillerson seems to have a different view here. The Exxon man said in his 2012 speech that some fears about energy security are "not well-founded in fact." As long as it's reliable, Tillerson said "where it comes from should be of little consequence to us."

 The problem with Rex Tillerson's Exxon nest egg
To be fair, Exxon and Tillerson aren't alone in missing the shale boom. Saudi Arabia and OPEC were also caught badly off guard by the explosion of American oil and more recently by how resilient U.S. frackers have become.
Exxon did eventually get into shale, but at a heavy cost. Exxon paid $41 billion in 2010 to acquire XTO Energy, a major natural gas producer that today also pumps lots of shale oil from Texas and North Dakota.
However, even Tillerson later admitted the XTO deal was poorly timed because it occurred just after natural gas prices peaked and they've never recovered.
Chevron (CVX) was also slow to hop on the shale train. However, analysts say Chevron has made more inroads with shale than Exxon since then.
The problem for oil giants like Exxon and Chevron is they are so gigantic that it would take a ton of fracking to really move the needle. So they focused on hitting the jackpot by finding a large overseas discovery rather than setting up hundreds of wells in U.S. shale fields.
Sign up for CNNMoney's morning market newsletter: Before The Bell
Of course, U.S. production skyrocketed from a mere 4 million barrels per day in September 2005 to a peak of 9.6 million in April 2015, making it one of the world's top energy producing nations.
Instead, Exxon ceded the shale game to more nimble players such as EOG Resources (EOG) and Continental Resources (CLR), which is run by vocal Trump supporter Harold Hamm.
Because they saw the writing on the wall early, those pioneers are generating far bigger production gains today than Exxon -- and virtually all of it is coming from shale.
"They were the first movers so they were able to snap up strong acreage at better pricing," said Stewart Glickman, energy analyst at CFRA Research.
"The large companies like Exxon have been playing catchup."
--CNNMoney's Chris Isidore contributed to this report.
Stewart Todd, a spokesman for the company, said it was too early to say whether jobs will move from London to Europe. But he said the process of creating a subsidiary will cost "tens of millions of pounds."
Lloyds plans were first reported by the Financial Times.
Major banks and other financial institutions have warned that they could be forced to move thousands of staff and open new offices as a result of Brexit, but few have been as explicit as Lloyds.
Jack Neill-Hall, a spokesman for financial industry lobby TheCityUK, said that while all well run businesses will have contingency plans, he was not aware of any companies "which have spoken publicly about this in the way Lloyds have."
Many financial firms based in London currently have EU "passports" that allow them to operate across Europe. They're worried that they will lose the ability to trade across borders if the Britain leaves the EU.
Brexit scorecard: The cost and complexity of leaving the EU
The British government has done little to ease their fears. The government has said it wants to achieve "the best possible access" to Europe's market of 500 million, but officials have not said how that will be achieved.
Many businesses have concluded that there's little chance that trade will continue on the same terms.
"If there is a complete turnaround from the government and the U.K. stays in the single market, we can just continue as we are now," Todd said. "We are making this plan so it's in place when -- or if -- the U.K. leaves the single market."
 Investors see danger in U.K.'s plan for Brexit
The House of Lords, the second chamber of parliament, warned this week of a dire impact to London's financial industry from Brexit. It said the government must act quickly to reduce uncertainty.
If the government does not provide clarity, the House of Lords warned that firms could relocate or restructure preemptively in order to protect their interests -- exactly what Lloyds is preparing to do.
 American CEOs are thrilled with Trump
The rest of corporate America likely has about $784 billion in cash, according to Moody's. They're all stashing the funds abroad in order to avoid relatively high U.S. corporate tax rates.
But when companies have been granted tax breaks in the past, very little cash ended up returning to the U.S.
And some experts argue that companies are more likely to use any cash they do bring home to pay down debt, buy back shares or hike dividends. All of those moves would help boost a company's share price, and increase the value of stock and options given to top executives. But they won't do anything to build new factories or create jobs.
Instead of using overseas funds that would be heavily taxed in the U.S., Apple, Microsoft, Cisco and Oracle have all gone deeply into debt in the last five years to do share buy backs, boost dividends and make acquisitions, Moody's says.
It estimates the debt at those four companies has grown by more than 400% since 2012 to $259 billion. Apple alone has added $90 billion in debt.
Much of that low-interest rate debt is coming due soon, which Moody's says makes it even more likely that any cash that does come back would be used to pay it off.
 Apple, tech giants lead $1.6 trillion cash hoard
In 2004, when Congress passed a repatriation tax break, it tried to encourage jobs investment by restricting how they could spend the money. Instead, companies simply opted not to repatriate the cash at all.
Only 843 of 9,700 companies with overseas subsidiaries brought cash back home in 2004, according to the IRS. And the companies that brought back cash in 2004 ended up cutting 21,000 jobs instead of hiring more people, according to a 2011 Senate committee report.
"There is no evidence that the previous repatriation tax giveaway put Americans to work," said then Sen. Carl Levin, the Michigan Democrat who was chaired the Senate committee that issued that 2011 report. "There was substantial evidence that it instead grew executive paychecks, and propped up stock prices."
The trend has led to predictions of parity -- that is, when $1 is worth €1. The last time that happened was 2002.
Adam Slater, the head economist at Oxford Economics, said Thursday that parity could be reached by the end of 2017. Other economists think the key psychological level will be reached even sooner.
Slater said the currency moves are now being driven by divergent monetary policies on either side of the Atlantic Ocean.
The U.S. Federal Reserve is raising interest rates as it sees the American economy improve and expects rising prices. Meanwhile, the European Central Bank has extended its stimulus program and kept interest rates at record lows to support the economy and boost inflation.
 Trump may Make Inflation Great Again
Investors are attracted to higher interest rates and stronger economies because they expect a better return on their money, which has pushed up the dollar. Europe is essentially the flip side of the coin.
President-elect Trump is also playing heavily into the currency equation because he's promised to slash taxes and regulations and support infrastructure projects. His policies could create an inflationary environment where the Federal Reserve will have to keep hiking interest rates to keep inflation at bay.
The major shift in these currencies is making European products and travel cheaper for Americans. European exporters, including German auto manufacturers, are expected to benefit.
Germany ships over $125 billion worth of goods to the U.S. annually, making it one of America's biggest trading partners.
 Trump's health secretary pick has long record of service -- to doctors
Approximately three-quarters of health care and hospital systems now ask for payment at the time services are provided, a practice known as "point-of-service collections," estimated Richard Gundling, a senior vice president at the Healthcare Financial Management Association, an industry group. He could not say how many were doing so for more highly priced services or for patients with high-deductible plans -- situations that would likely result in out-of-pocket outlays of hundreds or thousands of dollars.
Eyeing retailers' practice of keeping credit card information on file, "there's certainly been a movement by health care providers to store some of this information and be able to access it with patients' permission," said Mark Rukavina, a principal at Community Health Advisors in Chestnut Hill, Massachusetts, who works with hospitals on addressing financial barriers to care.
But there's a big difference between handing over a credit card to cover a $20 co-payment versus suddenly being confronted with a $2,000 charge to cover a deductible, an amount that might take months to pay off or exceed a patient's credit limit. Doctors may refuse to dispense needed care before the payment is made, even as a patient's health hangs in the balance.
The strategy leaves patients financially vulnerable, too. Once a charge is on a patient's credit card, they may have trouble contesting a medical bill. Likewise, a service placed on a credit card represents a consumer's commitment that the charge was justified, so nonpayment is more likely to harm a credit score.
 Obamacare chaos: Insurers may flee before new plan is in
"For providers, there's more risk with these higher deductibles, because the chance of being able to collect it later diminishes," Gundling said.
The higher their deductible, the less likely patients are to pay what they owe, according to an analysis of 400,000 claims by the Advisory Board, a health care research and consulting firm.
While more than two-thirds of patients with a deductible of less than $1,000 were likely to pay at least some portion of what they owe, just 36% of those with deductibles of more than $5,000 did so, the analysis found.
Boxley pays $110 a month for her family plan. She could not afford the premiums on plans with lower deductibles that her employer offered. She plans to talk with the doctor and hospital about setting up a payment plan so she can get the surgery in January.
"I'll make payments," Boxley said, although she acknowledged what she could pay monthly would be small. If that doesn't pan out, she figures she'll have to use student loan money she got for graduate school to cover what she owes.
But the practice leaves many patients resentful.
After arriving by ambulance at a hospital near her home in Maitland, Florida, Susan Bradshaw lay on a gurney in her hospital gown with a surgical bonnet on her head, waiting to be wheeled into surgery to remove her appendix. A woman in street clothes approached her and identified herself as the surgeon's office manager. She demanded that Bradshaw make her $1,400 insurance payment before the surgery could proceed.
 Employers push health care costs onto workers
"I said, 'You have got to be kidding. I don't even have a comb,'" Bradshaw, a 68-year-old exhibit designer, told the woman on that night eight years ago. "I don't have a credit card on me."
The woman crossed her arms and Bradshaw remembers her saying, "You have to figure it out."
As providers aim to maximize collections, many contract with companies that help doctors and hospitals secure payments up front, often providing scripts that prompt staff to talk with patients about their payment obligations and discuss payment scenarios as well as software that can estimate what a patient will owe.
But as hospitals and doctors push for point-of-service payments, the risk is that patients will delay care and end up in the emergency room, Rukavina said.
"Patients are essentially paying for their procedures up front," he said. "It may not be a significant amount compared to their salary, but they don't necessarily have it available at the time of service."
Still, experts say that trying to pin patients down for payment in more acute settings, such as the emergency department, may cross a line.
 This is why Obamacare matters, Democrats say
Under the federal Emergency Medical Treatment and Labor Act (EMTALA), a patient who has a health emergency has to be stabilized and treated before any hospital personnel can discuss payment with them. If it's not an emergency, however, those discussions can occur before treatment, said Dr. Vidor Friedman, an emergency physician who is the secretary-treasurer of American College of Emergency Physicians' board of directors.
Bradshaw finally got her appendix removed by calling a friend, who read his MasterCard number over the phone. The surgery was uneventful, and Bradshaw was home within 24 hours.
"It's a very murky, unclear situation," Friedman said of Bradshaw's experience, noting that a case might be made that her condition wasn't life threatening. "At the very least it's poor form, and goes against the intent if not the actual wording of EMTALA."
Kaiser Health News is national health policy news service that is part of the nonpartisan Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation.
The practice is known as a "widow foreclosure," and it was far more common at Mnuchin's bank than at other lenders, according to housing rights advocates.
In addition, the bank allegedly pushed vulnerable borrowers into loans they didn't need and created obstacles to prevent families from repaying loans, which then forced homes into foreclosure and generated huge bank fees. The bank even started one foreclosure over an unpaid bill for 27 cents, according to allegations raised by surviving partners, their relatives and advisers.
Those stories are likely to come up when Mnuchin goes before the Senate for confirmation. Senator Elizabeth Warren, the Massachusetts Democrat, has led the attack.
"Steven Mnuchin is the Forrest Gump of the financial crisis," she said shortly after he was announced as Trump's pick, adding that he was there for all of Wall Street's worst moments during that time.
'Absolute worst'
In 2009, just after the financial crisis, Mnuchin formed a bank called OneWest to buy the remains of IndyMac, a failed subprime lender, from the FDIC for pennies on the dollar. Financial Freedom, a reverse mortgage lender, came with the purchase.
During the first six years Mnuchin ran the bank, Financial Freedom foreclosed on more than 16,000 reverse mortgages, according to records obtained under the Freedom of Information Act by the public interest group California Reinvestment Coalition.
That accounted for almost 40% of all government-guaranteed reverse mortgage foreclosures, and more than twice what a lender of Financial Freedom's size should have produced, according to the interest group.
"By far, Financial Freedom is the absolute worst," said Sandy Jolley, a financial counselor who works with reverse mortgage borrowers and families who are fighting foreclosure.
Most of the complaints about Financial Freedom's practices came after Mnuchin started running the bank. Financial Freedom stopped issuing reverse mortgages in 2011, but it still services about $13 billion worth of them. The bank recently disclosed that it has $7 billion in reverse mortgages in the foreclosure process.
OneWest was sold to CIT in 2015 for $3.4 billion. CIT (CIT) has since disclosed it is under federal investigation for Financial Freedom's reverse mortgage practices, and has set aside hundreds of millions to pay anticipated fines and restitution to borrowers and their families.
Meanwhile, through lawsuits and a 2015 hearing by bank regulators on CIT's proposed purchase of OneWest, stories have emerged of Financial Freedom's foreclosures against elderly homeowners.
Widow foreclosures
In a reverse mortgage, a borrower age 62 or older opens a loan and gets cash or a line of credit, using the home as collateral. Virtually all reverse mortgages are backed by the federal government, which gives borrowers a sense of safety and puts taxpayers on the hook for any losses that may occur.
When the owners leave the home, either because they die or because they move out, often to a nursing home, the loan comes due. That includes both the principal and the interest that has accumulated.
At that point, the heirs are supposed to get the chance to either pay off the loan and keep the home, or to sell the house and raise the money to repay the loan. A private sale typically commands a higher price, which means more money for the heirs after the loan is repaid.
Foreclosures, which sell the home at auction to pay off the loan, are supposed to be a last resort. But Financial Freedom is accused of pushing foreclosures aggressively in order to pocket large fees while at the same time collecting the loan balance.
If the amount of the loan, interest and fees all add up to more than what the home sells for at auction, then the federal guarantee kicks in and taxpayers are forced to pay for the difference.
Some widows and widowers can be foreclosed on when their spouses die if their names aren't on the loan.
That happens often, because the borrower in a reverse mortgage has to be at least 62 years old. When only one partner is 62, the younger partner will sometimes agree to have his or her name removed from the home's title so the older partner can obtain the reverse mortgage.
At the 2015 hearing, some spouses said they were promised their name would be added back to the title and to the loan when they turned 62, only to discover that was not the case.
That's what Karen Hunziker, who lived with her husband in Pollock Pines, California, testified happened to her. She says she was 60 when her husband took out a reverse mortgage from Financial Freedom.
She said they were both worried that she would lose her property rights, but were assured by a salesperson that she would be protected until she turned 62. When she turned 62, the couple discovered they could not put Hunziker on the title without first paying off the loan, which they could not afford to do.
Her husband died soon after she turned 62.
"OneWest claimed I had less rights than other heirs because I'm a non-borrowing spouse," she testified at the 2015 hearing. "My story illustrates the consistent pattern of OneWest Bank to aggressively foreclose and evict non-borrowing spouses from their home."
She fought the foreclosure. After she testified, Financial Freedom relented and allowed her to remain in the home.
Foreclosure for 27 cents owed
Borrowers in reverse mortgages are still responsible for paying for homeowners insurance and property taxes. Financial Freedom has been accused of moving rapidly to foreclose for even the smallest of shortfalls in those bills.
Ossie Lofton was 90 years old and had lived in her Florida home for 40 years when she came up 27 cents short on an insurance payment due to confusion about how much she owed. Financial Freedom tried to foreclose. A lawsuit filed by a legal aid attorney kept her in her home.
Financial Freedom also tried to foreclose on owners after sending a letter asking the resident to prove he or she still lived in their home, according to Lofton's lawyer Lynn Drysdale, who has handled other cases against Financial Freedom.
Elderly homeowners often would not return the paperwork because they were concerned about scams. Financial Freedom would use that as the basis to start foreclosure proceedings, she said.
The bank has moved ahead with some foreclosures even after sending a representative to serve a notice of foreclosure and finding the borrower living in the home, Drysdale said.
Questionable loan sales practices
Complaints about Financial Freedom weren't limited to foreclosures. Family members say their parents were given loans they didn't need.
Julie Cheney of Simi Valley, California, testified that her parents were sold a reverse mortgage even though they were in no condition, mentally or physically, to make such a decision.
When the loan was signed, her father was in the last month of his life, with terminal cancer and on narcotic pain medication. Her mother had Alzheimer's disease and "was unable to complete a sentence."
After her father's death, Cheney testified in 2015, family members found the full $80,000 he had borrowed from Financial Freedom sitting untouched in a bank account. She said they tried to repay the loan, but Financial Freedom refused to accept the money, and instead moved to foreclose and auction the home. That meant the family had to pay a bunch of extra fees to Financial Freedom, and the home was sold at auction, which left a lot less money to care for Cheney's mother.
Families fight to keep homes
Jolley, the financial counselor, said Financial Freedom frequently accelerates foreclosures, rather than letting families pay off loans. She said that raised the fees the bank could collect on the loan, and left less money for the borrowers' heirs.
Loraine Esquibel told CNNMoney that she fought for 14 months to buy her parents' home in Colorado Springs, Colorado.
"I purchased the home for more than it was worth. But it was my childhood home. I didn't want to let it fall into foreclosure and disrepair," she said. "It was the only thing left in our family. My parents were destitute."
What the banks says
CIT declined comment for this story. At the hearing on its purchase of OneWest, Joseph Otting, then the CEO of OneWest, defended the reverse mortgage practices.
"In our view, the vast majority of criticisms of our servicing practices are really criticisms of the regulations governing how we are required to service [government]-insured reverse mortgages," he said. "In large part we share the frustrations of those who criticize the outcomes."
Jolley and other housing advocates dispute that. They say other lenders don't have the record of complaints that Financial Freedom does.
Mnuchin became a board member of CIT after the purchase was approved. He resigned that position earlier this month after Trump selected him for Treasury secretary. Neither the Trump transition team nor Mnuchin responded to requests for comment.
CIT had already disclosed in public filings that, because of the reverse mortgage program at Financial Freedom, it is facing an investigation by the Department of Housing and Urban Development, which includes the housing agency that insured the loans.
CIT took a $163 million charge against its earnings due to the anticipated costs of a settlement. It has set aside about $500 million to settle disputes with borrowers and their families.
Carol Hayles, CIT's chief financial officer, told investors on a recent conference call that the bank has invested significant time and money reviewing its guidelines and updating its policies.
"We are very disappointed with these developments, but have made good progress implementing enhancements that strengthen the operations and controls," she said.
Trump has promised to renegotiate or withdraw from NAFTA -- a free trade deal between the U.S., Canada and Mexico -- and he's threatened to slap tariffs of 45% on Chinese goods. He also said this month he'd introduce high taxes on U.S. companies that move jobs to Mexico.

It's too early to say whether Trump will follow through on his promises. But there's little doubt that doing so would have a massive effect on trade around the world.
As Trump plans his move into the White House, here are the trade statistics you should know, compiled from 2015 data from the Census Bureau and Bureau of Economic Analysis:


Many nations count on Americans to buy their products. For example, over 60% of all Canadian trade is done with the U.S., according to data from the World Trade Organization. And it takes in over 80% of all Mexican goods.
The U.S. is also the top destination for British and German exports.
CNNMoney's new trade infographic breaks down all the key trading relationships you need to know about:

"As we've said all along, we will continue to evaluate the situation as Yahoo continues its investigation," Verizon said in a statement Wednesday. "We will review the impact of this new development before reaching any final conclusions."
2. New food combo?: Two food giants are reportedly considering a major combo.
Shares in Oreo-maker Mondelez International (MDLZ) are surging in extended trading based on reports that Kraft Heinz (KHC) is considering a takeover. Other reports say there's no takeover in the works.
Kraft Heinz and Mondelez declined to comment.
A takeover would be unusual because Mondelez was spun off from Kraft back in late 2012.
Before the Bell newsletter: Key market news. In your inbox. Subscribe now!
3. Global market overview: U.S. stock futures are holding steady after dipping a bit on Wednesday.
Investors were in a negative mood yesterday after the Federal Reserve hiked interest rates, which was widely expected.
European markets are mixed in early trading. Asian markets are mostly closing the day with losses.
Oil prices are recovering a tad after falling Wednesday in reaction to the rate hike.
4. Earnings and economics: Adobe Systems (ADBE) and Oracle (ORCL, Tech30) are the two key companies reporting earnings on Thursday after the close.
U.S. inflation data for November is set to be released at 8:30 a.m. ET.
And the Bank of England is making its interest rate decision Thursday. It's widely expected to keep rates unchanged to help the economy deal with the the bumpy road to Brexit, even though inflation is rising.
5. Cashing in: Venezuela is scheduled to introduce new cash into circulation to deal with extreme inflation that has made its money essentially worthless.
The biggest bill, worth 100 bolivars, is being phased out as it's only worth about two cents, based on the unofficial exchange rate.
It's planning to introduce a number of new bills, with the biggest bill worth 20,000 bolivar.
Download CNN MoneyStream for up-to-the-minute market data and news
6. Coming this week:
Thursday - Bank of England rate decision; Super Mario Run for the iPhone releases; Venezuela's new currency debuts Friday - "Star Wars Rogue One" nationwide release in the U.S.
Federal rules don't allow domestic flights to stay on the tarmac for more than three hours without at least giving passengers a chance to leave the plane.
The Department of Transportation called the fine "the highest amount assessed against an airline for violating the tarmac delay rule."
The DOT, however, also said that $602,000 of the fine "will be credited to American for compensation provided to passengers on the affected flights."
It said another $303,000 "will be credited to American" for acquiring and maintaining a new surveillance system at the Charlotte and Dallas-Fort Worth airports.
"The remaining amount ($695,000) will be paid to DOT," Matt Miller, a spokesman for American, said in an email.
The DOT did not immediately respond to a CNNMoney request for comment.
American Airlines broke the DOT's tarmac delay rule 27 times in 2013 and 2015, according to a federal investigation.
The department did not cite any violations for 2014.
American Airlines told CNNMoney that "a large portion of the settlement" was related to delays in the Charlotte blizzard.
The delays involved flights operated by both American Airlines' predecessor US Airways and its regional partners.
The Transportation Department says the airline didn't do enough to prepare for that scenario. The department does allow exceptions to its tarmac rule for safety, security, or air traffic control-related reasons.
"Our tarmac rule is meant to prevent passengers from being trapped in aircraft on the ground for hours on end," U.S. Transportation Secretary Anthony Foxx said in a statement.
A $1.6 million fine was slapped against Southwest Airlines (LUV) in 2015.
A U.S. Treasury spokesperson declined to comment, citing policy not to disclose information about specific CFIUS cases.
Representatives for CFIUS did not respond to a request for comment on the news, which was first reported by Reuters.
The acquisition by China's Chongqing Casin Enterprise Group still faces SEC approval. If cleared, the deal would give China a foothold in the vast American stock market, the largest in the world.
The struggling Chicago Stock Exchange is far smaller than the Nasdaq (NDAQ) and the iconic New York Stock Exchange. Earlier this year it accounted for just 0.5% of U.S. trading.

 Will Trump's trade fight give Ivanka's shoe biz the boot?
Still, some lawmakers raised security concerns about Chinese investors buying into the U.S. equity market.
Dozens of members of Congress wrote a letter in February urging the deal receive tough scrutiny and get blocked if the buyer had close ties to the Chinese government.
The Chicago Stock Exchange transaction was proposed during a different atmosphere.
Since then, President-elect Donald Trump and China have clashed over the U.S. position that Taiwan is part of "one China." Beijing has said it is "seriously concerned" by Trump questioning this long-standing policy. Trump has also accused China of devaluing its currency, even though Beijing is spending heavily to keep the yuan from falling too quickly.
Trump was very critical of China's trade tactics during the presidential campaign, threatening to slap a 45% tax on Chinese goods coming into the U.S.
If the Chicago Stock Exchange deal is cleared, it won't be the first instance of foreign ties to a U.S. exchange. In 2007, Nasdaq merged with OMX, a Nordic exchange, becoming Nasdaq OMX Group. The exchange has since changed its name back to Nasdaq.
The Chicago Stock Exchange is minority controlled by a group that includes Bank of America (BAC), E*Trade (ETFC), Goldman Sachs (GS) and JPMorgan Chase (JPM).
Not likely, say budget experts.
"No way. I just don't think it's possible," said G. William Hoagland, senior vice president at the Bipartisan Policy Center, a Washington-based think tank, and a 20-year Republican staff veteran of the Senate Budget Committee.
 Trump Chief of Staff Priebus promises busy 'first 9 months'
Others think it could be done, but probably won't be. "Mechanically they can get it done," said Ed Lorenzen, senior adviser to the nonpartisan Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget. "The bigger question is can they decide what should be in the package."
Republicans and the incoming Trump administration have been careful not to talk about exactly what they plan to do to the Affordable Care Act beyond repealing virtually all of its coverage expansions and the taxes that help fund them. But they seem to be coalescing around a strategy of "repeal and delay," in which they would pass a bill to kill many of the major provisions of law by a certain date, then set to work on crafting and passing a replacement before that date arrives.
It would be quicker for Congress to simply repeal the health law outright. But Republicans can't do that, because they would need 60 votes in the Senate to fend off Democrats' delaying tactics, and they will only have 52 GOP members. So instead they will be limited to using a special budget strategy that will let them pass their bill with 51 votes.
That so-called "budget reconciliation" measure does not let lawmakers repeal the entire law — only the parts that directly impact federal spending. That has been widely discussed. There has been less focus on how long the process takes.
No one in Congress can simply introduce a budget reconciliation bill. The word "reconciliation" refers to the process by which congressional committees that control permanent spending programs such as Medicare and Medicaid, as well as tax policy, take action to "reconcile" that spending with the terms of the annual budget resolution.
 Pelosi casts doubt on GOP plans to repeal Obamacare
That means the first action must be to pass a budget resolution, which Congress failed to do last year. That is the "resolution" McConnell was referring to.
The budget resolution, which is essentially a planning document for spending and taxes for the coming fiscal year, does not go to the president for a signature. But, like a regular bill, it does have to be passed by both the House and Senate in the same form. And while the budget resolution also may not be filibustered in the Senate, lawmakers have up to 50 hours to debate it, and unlimited time to vote on proposed amendments, which in practice can take up to another full day.
Once that measure is agreed to by the full House and Senate, the action moves back to congressional committees. The budget resolution often includes "reconciliation instructions" to committees. Those instructions order proposed legislative changes to the programs the committees oversee to meet the terms of the budget. That triggers the reconciliation bill that goes to the president.
In the normal course of events, those changes take from several weeks to several months to accomplish. Legislative changes need to be written, voted on by the committee and reported back to the House or Senate budget committees, which then forward them to the House or Senate floor for votes. Again, Senate debate is limited to 20 hours with unlimited additional voting on amendments. House and Senate negotiators then hammer out a compromise, pass it again in the full House and Senate and then send it to the president.
 Insurers tell GOP what to do after Obamacare repeal
The last budget reconciliation bill, considered a dry-run by Republicans for the coming year, was launched by the budget resolution at the end of April 2015. The resulting reconciliation bill was sent to President Barack Obama (who vetoed it) on Jan. 26, 2016.
Clearly, if Republicans were to simply recycle their 2015 bill, the process could be dramatically shortened. That bill called for repeal of funding for the Medicaid expansion, as well as for jettisoning premium and other subsidies that help individuals afford private coverage, along with the taxes to pay for those benefits, as of Dec. 31, 2017.
Budget expert Stan Collender, executive vice president of the communications firm Qorvis MSLGROUP, a Washington communications and consulting firm, said predictions of getting the reconciliation bill to the president by Inauguration Day are ambitious. "It would be unprecedented to do it that quickly," said Collender, who has worked for the both the House and Senate budget committees. "But just because it hasn't worked that expeditiously before, doesn't mean they can't do it."
While Jan. 20 might not be feasible, "I think they could do it by the end of January," said Lorenzen. He noted that while some Republicans in the Senate have been expressing doubts about repealing the law without having a replacement in hand and others in the House object to leaving current policies in place for as long as three years, "no one want to be the skunk that stops repeal."
But others think that even with a model bill in hand, the process will be harder — and take longer — than many Republicans are saying.
With last year's bill, "that repeal legislation, they knew they weren't shooting with real bullets," said Hoagland of the Bipartisan Policy Center. "They knew it was going to be vetoed."
 Obamcare chaos: Insurers may flee before a new plan is put in place
Already health analysts and health provider groups are warning that repealing major pieces of the law without immediately replacing them could cause a virtual collapse of the individual insurance market that currently covers around 20 million people.
That could — and should — slow things down, said Chris Jennings, a health consultant who worked in both the Bill Clinton and Obama White Houses.
"Few people have ever been wrong projecting that Congress takes a little bit longer" than some predictions, he said. "I think this health debate is of such consequence that will likely be the case for this as well."
Kaiser Health News is national health policy news service that is part of the nonpartisan Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation.
Yellen vowed to stay on as Fed chair until her term ends in February 2018. Trump has made it clear he plans to appoint someone new -- a Republican -- after she leaves.
"I do intend to serve out my 4-year term," she said. "I'm a strong believer in the independence of the Fed."
The stock market has surged since Trump was elected president. Investors and CEOs believe Trump will be more "pro-business" by slashing taxes and regulations and spending more money on infrastructure.
But Yellen isn't ready to endorse Trumponomics as great for the economy.
"It's too early to know how these policies will unfold," she said Wednesday.
 Finally: Fed raises rates for first time in 2016
Fed not predicting big growth spurt
While many Wall Street economists have bumped up their expectations for hiring and growth after Trump was elected, the Fed barely changed its projections. Fed members went from saying the U.S. economy will grow 2% in 2017 to 2.1%. (Trump promises growth of 4%).
When pushed, Yellen questioned whether Trump's proposed $1 trillion infrastructure spending plan is even necessary.
"I would say at this point that fiscal policy is not obviously needed to provide stimulus to help us get back to full employment," she said, although she added that she wants to be clear she is not giving policy advice to Congress or the president-elect.
 Donald Trump to CEOs: Look out
Yellen wants to revisit Dodd-Frank
Trump has made many contradictory remarks about Yellen and whether he thinks the Fed should raise interest rates now. He says he's "not an enemy" of Yellen's. But he's still been mostly critical of her and the Fed for keeping rates almost at 0% for so long.
"She's keeping [rates] artificially low to get Obama retired. Watch what is going to happen afterwards. It is a very serious problem. And I think it is very political," he said on CNBC in September.
Yellen acknowledged it was unlikely Trump would re-appoint her after her time is up.
The Fed and the White House have had tiffs in the past. President George H.W. Bush blames then-Fed chair Alan Greenspan for costing him a re-election.
But Yellen did give one seeming thumbs up to Trump this week. She appeared to agree with him that some regulations have gone too far, especially Dodd-Frank, the legislation enacted after the financial crisis to rein in Wall Street.
"It's important to look for ways to relieve the regulatory burden on community banks and smaller institutions," she said.
Trump has yet to tweet about the rate hike. At the moment, the Fed is predicting three more rates hikes in 2017, but that could change rapidly if Trump and Congress take action on taxes and spending.
The pace is quickening this week. Those who want coverage to start on Jan. 1 must sign up by Thursday. More than 700,000 people signed up on Monday and Tuesday, the two biggest days since open enrollment started on Nov. 1.
 This is why Obamacare matters, Democrats say
States that run their own exchanges are also seeing a boost in interest. More than 153,000 new consumers have signed up on California's exchange, including 25,000 on Monday and Tuesday. That's in addition to the 1.2 million current Golden State customers who've renewed their plans. The state extended its deadline to Dec. 17 for those who want coverage to begin New Year's Day.
"This strong demand shows that Californians are using the competitive marketplace that Covered California provides," said Peter Lee, executive director of the state's exchange.
The Obama administration is encouraging people to sign up to show Trump and the Republicans how vital Obamacare is to Americans. They've created the hashtag #CoverageMatters to let enrollees share how health care reform has benefited them.
The surge in sign-ups comes as Republicans prepare to repeal Obamacare in coming weeks. However, it's expected that they will delay putting an actual end to the law for two or three years while they come up with a replacement plan.
 Obamacare chaos: Insurers may flee before new plan is put in place
While insurers are locked into providing coverage next year, the delay may prompt some to rethink their involvement in 2018.
"A repeal and delay is a repeal and recipe for collapse," Health Secretary Sylvia Burwell told CNN's MJ Lee Wednesday. "Insurance companies have to make their decisions in the first half of the year -- whether or not they're going to be in the marketplace and what prices they're going to charge. With that level of uncertainty, we've seen studies and more and more analysis is coming out, that what insurance companies will do -- many of them -- will make the choice to be out of the marketplace or else to raise their prices dramatically."
Tillerson faces an uphill battle in the Senate given questions over his deep ties to Russia and potential conflicts of interest.
 The problem with Tillerson's Exxon nest egg
Exxon congratulated Tillerson on his nomination and praised the CEO for leading the company with "integriety and honor."
"We know that his service to the nation as secretary of state will be equally successful and distinguished," the Exxon board said in a statement.
Exxon tapped Darren Woods, a 24-year veteran of the company who came up through the refining business, to replace Tillerson. Woods was seen as the heir apparent after Exxon elevated him to the position of president in January.
Tillerson owns more than 600,000 Exxon shares that may be sold or put in vanilla investment trusts to avoid a conflict of interest when he leads the State Department.
It's less clear what will happen to the more than 2 million Exxon shares that Tillerson is due to receive from the company over the next decade. That nest egg, worth a stunning $184 million at current prices, poses ethical and legal questions given the tremendous impact the nation's chief diplomat has over Exxon's business.
Tillerson leaves a mixed legacy behind at Exxon.
While he guided Exxon through not just one but two separate crashes in oil prices, he has also been criticized for largely missing the U.S. shale oil boom.
Instead, Tillerson focused on securing exploration deals overseas, including a landmark agreement in 2011 with Russian oil giant Rosneft to search for oil in the Russian Arctic. Yet that deal with Russia has been frozen in place by the sanctions put in place in 2014 by the U.S. and European Union.
Of course, now that Tillerson has been nominated as Trump's secretary of state, he may be in a prime position to help lift those sanctions.
The primary cause of hunger, the mayors said: low wages.
"We're looking at the wealth gap. Jobs in our cities are coming back, but they are not paying what they we're paying before the meltdown," said Mick Cornett, mayor of Oklahoma City.
 There's a hunger problem on America's college campuses
High housing costs and poverty were also major reasons cited by the mayors.
"We're talking about the working poor and we may be looking at people who are sheltered but spending more of their income on housing and seeking food assistance," said Helene Schneider, mayor of Santa Barbara.
The growing number of hungry has put a strain on city food banks and pantries.
Nearly half of cities said they had to reduce the quantity of food an individual or a family could receive per pantry visit or the food received per meal. Due to a lack of resources, 47% of the cities said emergency food facilities had to turn people away altogether, a slight improvement from the 57% who said they had to do so a year prior.
 New York's food pantries under strain
Washington, D.C., estimated that the city was unable to meet nearly 24% of the overall demand for food assistance in 2016. Meanwhile, Des Moines said it could not meet 22% of the demand at its food pantries and kitchens.
One glimmer of hope: The homelessness rate continued to decline.
Approximately two-thirds of the cities surveyed by the Council of Mayors reported decreases in the rate of homelessness from 2009 to 2016. The largest reported decrease was in New York City, with 1,800 fewer homeless people, the report said.
About 5% of homeless people were veterans, the U.S. Conference of Mayors reported. With Durham, North Carolina, and Indianapolis reporting the highest proportion of homeless veterans.
The Council of Mayors stressed that the report on their cities doesn't necessarily reflect national trends, however. Nationally, 7.2% of homeless people are identified as veterans, they said.
A shift in policy away from transitional housing toward more permanent housing since 2009 has helped reduce the numbers of homeless people living in U.S. cities. However, there is more to be done. The mayors reported that even if every one of their cities' shelter beds were filled, more than 34,000 people would still lack shelter.
 How this single mom survives on $7.50 a day
City officials overwhelmingly said housing assistance and affordable housing were what is needed most to reduce homelessness. They also want better employment and training, and better coordination with mental health and substance abuse services.
With about a month before the inauguration of President-elect Donald Trump, the mayors stressed the need for continued collaboration between federal, state and local governments.
"We look forward to meeting with the president-elect and his cabinet at our upcoming [Conference of Mayors] meeting on January 17th in D.C.," said Mitch Landrieu, mayor of New Orleans. "These are bipartisan issues and we will do everything we can to support these people with a strong federal partnership."
Alaska and Virgin are already looking a little different because of the deal. Starting Wednesday morning, Alaska Airlines' Boeing 737s had red and blue cabin mood lighting, a nod to Virgin America's lounge-like pink and purple interior.
Unlike most airline mergers, it's hard to see changes on the first day. Alaska & Virgin already looking a little different. pic.twitter.com/sH8cW9wRI2

For travelers, there will be few immediate changes.
Starting next Monday, frequent fliers of both airlines will be able to collect miles and points toward free flights and elite status. Virgin's flights will also become available for purchase through Alaska's website. Elite flyers will be able to use priority check-in desks and boarding lines on both airlines. On January 9, Virgin's elites will officially be invited into Alaska's frequent flier program.
 Alaska Air buys Virgin America for $2.6 billion
The deal was announced in April. The U.S. Department of Justice required Alaska to remove its flight number from 45 American Airlines routes and on some overlapping flights. Alaska Air also settled a lawsuit by passengers and travel agents who opposed the merger.
Alaska now begins the arduous process of integrating Virgin America, its employees, Airbus (EADSF) planes and products into its mostly Boeing (BA) Seattle-based operations.
The two airlines bring two different business approaches.
Virgin, which has been in business only nine years, has catered to younger and higher-income passengers. It has courted the California tech and entertainment community with flights that went up and down the West Coast and to the East Coast.
Alaska is more than 80 years old. It is a Pacific Northwest favorite for its highly-ranked customer service, but it doesn't have the flash that Virgin's customers might expect.
 Virgin America stock soars on news of takeover bids
At least for now, Virgin will continue to operate under its current name, Alaska Airlines chief executive Brad Tilden said.
"This is a big decision and one that deserves months of thoughtful and thorough analysis. We plan to make a decision about the Virgin America brand early next year," Tilden said.
The new airline, so far, is embracing those differences. It handed out salted caramel candy on its flights on Wednesday, and bacon donuts to arriving passengers. Cards given to customers said the pairing of the two airlines "was an unlikely combo, too."
"I am not trying to provide advice to the new administration," Yellen said, adding that the Fed's staff has been in touch with the Trump transition team.
In other words, she took the high road.
But Yellen may not have to deal with Trump for that much longer. Yellen's term as Fed chair ends on February 3, 2018. It's unclear if she would want to stick around for another term -- assuming that Trump even wanted her to stay.
In fact, Trump could drastically shake up the Fed's Board of Governors over the next few years. There are currently two vacancies on the board, which helps to set short-term interest rates and also has a role supervising the nation's banks.
Steven Mnuchin, Trump's pick to be Treasury Secretary, said in a Fox Business interview earlier this month that filling the two current vacancies will be a priority in the new administration.
Why does this matter? The Fed has had a far more prominent role over the past decade, largely because of the 2008 financial crisis. In addition to cutting rates to near zero, the Fed helped with the bailout of big banks in the wake of the market meltdown.
It also bought trillions of dollars of bonds, mortgage-backed securities and other assets in order to keep long-term rates low.
 4 fast facts about the Fed
Supporters of these policies argue they prevented the market from plunging further and kept the economy from entering a depression.
But critics -- including Trump -- maintain the actions of the Fed set the market up for another bubble and that low rates haven't actually helped consumers or pushed businesses to create more jobs since banks have been less willing to lend.
So how different could the Fed look in a Trump administration?
The Senate has to approve new Fed board members -- and there would appear to be a better chance of that happening smoothly now that a Republican is set to move into the White House.
There is also speculation that Fed board member Daniel Tarullo, a Democrat whose term won't expire until January 31, 2022, could step down before then. That would mean Trump could have another chance to appoint a new Fed member.
 What a Fed rate hike means for you
And the term of Fed vice chair Stanley Fischer, an appointee of President Obama, expires on June 12, 2018. Unless Yellen gets a second go as Fed chair, it seems unlikely that Fischer will be asked to serve a second term.
Yellen was bashed by Trump repeatedly during the presidential campaign for keeping interest rates too low.
He accused her of having a political motivation for doing so -- to help Hillary Clinton's chances of getting elected as well as help the legacy of Obama, who appointed Yellen as Fed chair. Ironically enough, Trump is now going to get what he asked for -- a rate hike.
But the Fed is actually an independent body, with no official ties to the White House or Congress.
The Fed chair often testifies in front of Congress about the economy, but they cannot be fired by lawmakers.
 Fed's Number Two sends warning to Trump
The president can remove a Fed member for cause, i.e. if there was actual malfeasance. But presidents can't get rid of Fed members merely because they have a disagreement about monetary policy.
So Trump will have to coexist with Yellen until early 2018. But what happens after that?
There is speculation Trump could appoint Stanford professor John Taylor, Columbia Business School dean Glenn Hubbard, or Greg Mankiw, former chair of the Council of Economic Advisers under President George W. Bush, to succeed her.
All are considered to be more conservative economists than Yellen.
There are also 12 regional presidents of Federal Reserve Banks throughout the country. The boards of those banks choose their president.
 Trump may Make Inflation Great Again
The president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York has a permanent spot on the Fed's rate-setting Open Market Committee. Four of the other 11 Reserve Bank presidents serve a one-year term on a rotating basis.
But the president of the United States gets to pick the other members of that powerful group.
And since Trump is likely to have the opportunity to appoint at least four, and perhaps five, of them, he'll have nobody to blame but himself if the Fed starts doing things in 2018 and 2019 that he doesn't like.
Spain's long-time dictator Francisco Franco moved the country's clocks forward an hour to Central European Time in the early 1940s to align with Nazi Germany. But the change has stuck for more than 70 years.
This long-lasting quirk means Spanish workers tend to wake up in the dark, take mid-day siestas -- aka naps -- and eat late dinners. Bedtime for Spaniards can be well after midnight -- which means less sleep and lower productivity.
 Wild weather means world will have less wine to drink
A 2013 government report said the status quo doesn't give people enough evening time with their families.
Báñez wants Spain to revert one hour to Greenwich Mean Time -- in line with the U.K.
The latest push is part of a wider move to overhaul the Spanish labor market.
The country's unemployment rate is currently just above 19%, the second worst in Europe behind Greece.
Still, that's an improvement from 2013, when the rate surpassed 25%. Since then, well over 1.5 million new jobs have been created.
The International Monetary Fund has warned that even though Spanish growth has zoomed higher, more work needs to be done. It expects the economy to be held back in 2017 by "feeble productivity growth and high structural unemployment."
-- Samuel Burke contributed to this report.
The vast majority of BA flights, however, wouldn't be affected by a strike. Fewer than one in five BA cabin crew staffers are members part of this particular union.
Unite argues that its members are not paid a decent salary and roughly half of the cabin crew take second jobs to pay the bills. Members have rejected a proposed pay raise of 2%.
"A massive 84% [of workers] said they had experienced stress and depression since joining BA due to their financial circumstances," the union said in a statement.
 Lufthansa makes new offer to pilots after strike grounds 4,450 flights
British Airways -- which is owned by IAG (ICAGY) -- said it hopes to resolve this conflict and avoid any disruption.
"We have proposed a fair and reasonable pay increase," it said in a statement.
It was just the second time in a decade that the Fed has raised rates. The first was in December 2015.
"Economic growth has picked up since the middle of the year," said Janet Yellen, the Fed's chair. "We expect the economy will continue to perform well."
The Fed slashed rates to zero in 2008 in the midst of the financial crisis and kept it there during the Great Recession and beyond.
 What a Fed rate hike means for you
The rate increase indicates that the U.S. economy no longer needs the Fed's crutches and consumers and businesses can afford to pay more to borrow. America has added jobs for 74 consecutive months and the country's unemployment rate has fallen to 4.6%, its lowest level since 2007. The U.S. economy has expanded for seven years, even though the pace of growth has been slow.
The Fed's rate hike "should be viewed essentially as good news -- the Fed sees enough strength" in the economy, says Vincent Reinhart, chief economist at Standish, an investment firm in Boston.
The Fed hinted that it could raise rates at a faster pace next year. Most Fed officials now project three or more rate hikes in 2017. In September, Fed officials predicted they would only raise rates once or twice next year.
The stock market fell after the decision was announced and Yellen's news conference was underway. The Dow fell over 100 points.
Yellen indicated that the Fed's role in the economy is starting to recede and that Congress will start taking over that job of helping stimulate the economy.
Fiscal policy is "not obviously needed to provide stimulus," she said.
Yellen clarified that it didn't mean she was "trying to provide advice to the new administration or Congress," but said that her staff has been in touch with transition team of President-elect Donald Trump.
 Janet Yellen to Donald Trump: I'm not going anywhere
Wednesday's move could be the first of more. Some economists believe the Fed will need to raise rates more often -- and perhaps at higher levels -- if President-elect Donald Trump spends big on infrastructure.
"With the economy much closer to full employment now and a strong likelihood of a fiscal stimulus next year...we expect the Fed to accelerate the pace of [rate hikes] next year," says Paul Ashworth, chief U.S. economist at Capital Economics.
A big spending plan would spark demand for many goods, which could cause inflation to accelerate from its low levels. The Fed will have to fight inflation by raising rates.
However, nothing is certain with the Fed. That truth bore out this year. Fed leaders originally projected raising rates four times in 2016. But after a slew of setbacks, such as low oil prices earlier in the year, Fed officials only felt comfortable with this one rate hike for the entire year.
The Fed released a new forecast Wednesday and it projects U.S. economic growth this year to be 1.9% and next year to be 2.1%, both slightly better than the Fed's previous projection in September.
Overall, the Fed's rate increase reflects its confidence in the economy, experts say.
"The Fed is clearly comfortable with how the U.S. economy is currently performing," says Scott Anderson, chief economist at Bank of the West in San Francisco.
Trump's lawyers and transition team are scrambling to resolve the conflict issues surrounding the hotel before Trump takes office.
The lease, signed by Trump two years before he launched his campaign, says that no elected official can be party to the agreement. Because Trump will oversee the GSA as president, his election puts him in the extraordinary position of being both landlord and tenant.
Representative Elijah Cummings of Maryland, the top Democrat on the committee, said the Democrats were told last week by a GSA deputy commissioner that "Mr. Trump must divest himself not only of managerial control, but of all ownership interest as well."
He said Democrats had been assured that the GSA will consider Trump in breach of the lease the moment he is sworn in on January 20.
The GSA said later Wednesday that it had no official position on the matter.
"We can make no definitive statement at this time about what would constitute a breach of the agreement, and to do so now would be premature," the agency said in a statement. It said it would make no determination until Trump has assumed office.
Cummings said in response to the GSA statement that Democrats know any lease breach is "officially viewed as a 'hypothetical issue'" until the inauguration.
Cummings issued a statement saying "the simple fact is that GSA informed our staffs that they interpret this lease provision as prohibiting any elected official from having any ownership interest in the lease, and we stand 100% behind our letter."
 Trump Washington hotel could become ethical headache
One source familiar with the discussions told CNN that Democrats "are cherry picking" an errant comment from the briefing, noting that representatives of Trump's organization have been working with GSA since the election to determine an arrangement to resolve the issue.
"The reality is it remains in everyone's best interest -- the government's and the Trump organization's -- to resolve any potential conflicts in advance of January 20," the source said. "Reaching a 'breach' scenario just isn't something that will happen."
The exact language in the lease is: "No member or delegate to Congress or elected official of the Government of the United States ... shall be admitted to any share of part of this Lease."
Trump's ownership of the hotel, blocks from the White House, is already raising concerns that foreign governments and American business leaders will seek to curry favor with the new president by booking rooms and holding events there.
On December 7, the Embassy of Bahrain hosted a reception at the hotel to mark a national holiday.
The embassy later put out a statement saying that the hotel simply provided "an exceptional hall" at a reasonable cost.
Trump initially planned to lay out how he will separate himself from his multiple business interests this week, but the work of building his Cabinet and figuring out detailed legal issues on the D.C. hotel and his other business interests are taking more time.
Jason Miller, a Trump spokesman, told reporters the matter would be addressed at a press conference the president-elect promises to hold in January. Trump, who has not held a press conference since July, promised one for this week but postponed it.
A legal dispute over a breach of the lease would probably go before the U.S. Civilian Board of Contract Appeals, an administrative tribunal independent from the GSA.
 Trump says he's turning away 'billions' but has 'the right' to do deals
The hotel is a prominent example of the unprecedented potential for conflicts between Trump's business holdings around the world and his responsibility as president.
The president-elect has said he will turn over managerial responsibility to his two adult sons, Donald Jr. and Eric, but he has given no indication that he will sell his stake in any property.
Experts on government ethics have said that selling everything, and putting the money in the hands of a trustee who can manage it without Trump's knowledge, is the only way to be sure that personal profit motive is not coloring his decisions about U.S. policy.
 How Trump could violate his own hotel lease
Trump's daughter Ivanka was the GSA's main contact during negotations on the lease for the Washington hotel, according to the Democrats.
"In other words," the Democrats said in a press release, "Ms. Trump is all of the following -- the President-elect's daughter, a top presidential transition team official, a lessee under the contract the GSA oversees, and the primary contact for GSA on the lease. The conflicts of interest are obvious."
The GSA commissioner also said that Trump's transition team has not been in touch with the GSA about the conflict, the Democrats said.
Trump said on Twitter this week that Donald Trump Jr. and Eric Trump will manage the family business, along with other executives.
That would present a "profound challenge," said Norman Eisen, a visiting fellow at the Brookings Institution who led government ethics initiatives for President Barack Obama during his first term.
"The kids are used as a vehicle, a conduit to influence the parents all over the world," he said at a forum convened Wednesday by House Democrats. "This is why we have to go to the simple solution right away: Donald Trump needs to make a clean break, not just on operations, but on interest. He needs to turn it all over to a trustee."
Eisen and other experts on government ethics have said Trump, unless he divests, could violate the Emoluments Clause of the Constitution, which bars the president from accepting payments from foreign governments.
One way Trump could be challenged, Eisen said, is that competing hotels could bring a court case arguing that foreign money flowing to the Trump hotel from embassies puts them at a competitive disadvantage.
--CNN's Manu Raju contributed to this story.
In November, OPEC agreed to a production cut that had been promised for months. The supply cut is scheduled to begin Jan. 1.
Sticking to the deal is crucial if OPEC wants to see higher oil prices. A global glut of oil supply caused prices to crash over the past two years, as the world's biggest oil producers refused to cut production in order to defend their market share.
 Remember: OPEC almost always cheats
At the time, the group agreed to cuts using output from October as a benchmark. Because production has since increased, OPEC will have to execute deeper cuts to meet the agreed upon levels.
The group's latest data show that Nigeria and Libya increased production by a combined 110,000 barrels a day in November. Both are exempted from cuts because of armed conflict.
Venezuela, which is in the midst of an economic crisis, also pumped more. It had agreed to slash production by 95,000 barrels a day, but will now need to cut 125,000 barrels in order to reach its target.
 The global oil surplus will disappear in 2017
The stakes are high: Since striking the deal, OPEC has secured commitments from other major producers -- including Russia, Mexico, Kazakhstan and Oman -- to also slash output.
The collective action helped push prices to a new 2016 high above $53 per barrel on Monday. U.S. crude futures have since retreated to trade near $52.30.
SeaWorld has disputed points raised by the film, but announced this year that it will phase out killer whale shows and stop holding the animals in captivity.
The park in Abu Dhabi will have a marine life research and rehabilitation center -- a first for the UAE.
 SeaWorld Entertainment cuts jobs in wake of attendance drop
The latest addition to the company's portfolio of parks will be located on Abu Dhabi's Yas Island, home to an annual Formula One race, Ferrari World theme park, Yas Waterworld, and -- from 2018 -- a Warner Bros Theme Park.
"This announcement reflects the emirate's ambition to create a sustainable, diversified economy, with tourism as one of its core pillars," said Mohamed Al Mubarak, chairman of Miral, the government-backed company that manages Yas Island.
Oil rich Abu Dhabi has been looking at ways to diversify its economy and boost tourism numbers as part of a strategic plan looking ahead to 2030.
But it will have to compete with neighboring Dubai, which has its own ambitious plans to attract 20 million visitors a year by 2020.
Dubai is already home to the largest indoor theme park in the world, IMG Worlds of Adventure. And last week it announced plans to build an even bigger one.
It officially opens Dubai Parks and Resorts next week. That park -- built at a cost of more than $3 billion dollars -- includes LegoLand, a Bollywood-themed zone, and a water park.
President-elect Donald Trump has criticized Yellen for keeping interest rates low, raising questions about the central bank's political independence.
Paul Donovan, global chief economist of wealth management at UBS, said that investors will be closely monitoring Twitter (TWTR, Tech30).
"Will Trump retweet the Fed's Twitter feed? Will he comment? Will he stay silent? This could matter to market perceptions of the Fed's future direction and independence," he said.
2. Tech giants meet Trump - Top executives from Apple (AAPL, Tech30), Google (GOOGL, Tech30), Amazon (AMZN, Tech30), Facebook (FB, Tech30) and half a dozen other large tech companies are slated to meet with Trump at 2 p.m.
The focus of the meeting is supposed to be jobs, but it's also expected the executives will discuss trade, corporate tax reform and immigration, among other issues.
Tech leaders across Silicon Valley were broadly supportive of Hillary Clinton. Trump has repeatedly attacked tech companies.
Before the Bell newsletter: Key market news. In your inbox. Subscribe now!
3. Pharma deal falls through: American pharma giant Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) said it has ditched plans to buy the Swiss biotechnology firm, Actelion (ALIOY).
Actelion announced Wednesday it's begun talking with a different suitor.
Paris-based Sanofi (SNY) is reportedly the third party that's swooped in to woo Actelion.
Shares in Actelion are down about 9% in early trading because investors expect any takeover deal will be less lucrative than Johnson & Johnson's offer.
4. Post-election shopping?: Consumer confidence numbers surged following the tumultuous U.S. presidential election campaign. But did that lead Americans to actually spend more? November retail sales are due at 8:30 a.m.
5. Global market overview: Stock markets around the world are looking a bit weak and investors are bidding up sovereign bond prices.
The real action will likely happen when markets get to react to the Fed announcement and press conference.
U.S. stock futures also look soft despite all three major U.S. indexes closing at record highs on Tuesday. The Dow Jones industrial average is now less than 100 points away from the 20,000 mark.
European markets are slipping a bit in early trading. Asian markets ended the day with mixed results.
Download CNN MoneyStream for up-to-the-minute market data and news
6. Coming this week:
Wednesday - FOMC meeting finishes with a news conference; First rate hike in a year expected Thursday - Bank of England rate decision; Super Mario Run for the iPhone releases; Venezuela's new currency debuts Friday - "Star Wars Rogue One" nationwide release in the U.S.
"The world's leading operators regard Japan as a holy grail given the potential market size," analysts at brokerage CLSA said in a research note.
Big players such as Las Vegas Sands (LVS) and MGM Resorts (MGM) are strong contenders to enter the Japanese industry, experts say, but local firms could also have an important role.
 Is Macau's epic gambling slump over
Not everyone welcomes the change. There is little public support for legalizing casinos, and groups have warned of the potential social costs.
"The issue is not whether gambling facilities are allowed or not, it is about measures to deal with gambling addiction," Noriko Tanaka, the secretary general of campaign group Society Concerned about Gambling Addiction, said in a statement.

In an opinion poll this week by Japanese broadcaster NHK, 44% of those surveyed said they opposed the casino bill, while only 12% supported it. The rest were undecided.
Some forms of gambling are already permitted in Japan. They include government-controlled betting on horse races and the legal gray area of pachinko, a highly popular pinball-like game where people play for non-cash prizes but often exchange them for money off the premises.
Tanaka's group says Japan already has a higher rate of gambling addiction than many other countries.
 Japan's seniors turn to gambling to stay sharp
Prime Minister Shinzo Abe's government is touting the introduction of casinos as a way to lift tourism and deliver a boost to the economy. The aim is to combine the gambling venues with hotels, high-end shopping and entertainment complexes -- an approach that analysts say has proved successful in Singapore.
The casino industry's center of gravity has increasingly shifted to Asia, with gaming revenues in the Chinese territory of Macau dwarfing those of Las Vegas.
But it's likely to be years before any gamblers are sitting down at tables in Japanese casinos.
The new law passed Thursday will need to be followed by more legislation to determine key points like tax rates, the licensing process and entrance fees, experts say.
"We do not expect door-opening for the megaresorts until 2023 at the earliest," the CLSA analysts said.
-- Yoko Wakatsuki contributed to this report.
It's the latest legal trouble for Wells Fargo, which has been embroiled in a scandal for the past three months over the creation of millions of fake accounts and its treatment of workers.
Regulatory officials said the action has nothing to do with the sales practice problems that Wells Fargo has gone through.
The Federal Reserve and FDIC ruled that Wells Fargo "did not adequately remedy all of its deficiencies" that were raised by regulators back in April for the 2015 living will plan.
Regulators are punishing Wells Fargo by prohibiting the bank from establishing international bank entities or acquiring any non-bank businesses.
If Wells Fargo fails to address the questions raised by regulators by the end of March, more harsh penalties may be imposed. First, regulators said they would limit Wells Fargo's non-bank and broker-dealer assets at the levels they were at on September 30, 2016.
Regulators warned that if Wells Fargo fails to fix its living will within two years, they could require the bank to sell certain assets or operations "to facilitate an orderly resolution of the firm in bankruptcy."
 Wells Fargo scandal spreads to Prudential insurance
By comparison, Bank of America (BAC), JPMorgan Chase (JPM) and the other two financial institutions that didn't had shorfalls in their living will in April all passed the test on their second try.
In a statement, Wells Fargo said it's "disappointed" with the result, but is "dedicated to sound resolution planning and preparedness." The bank said it believes it will be able to "address the concerns" by the March deadline.
So far, investors seem mostly unfazed by the penalties. Wells Fargo shares dipped less than 1% in after-hours trading on Tuesday.
Specifically, regulators faulted Wells Fargo for failing to come up with a less complex legal structure that would make it easier to wind down the bank if it ever had to file for bankruptcy. That was one of the problems that made the 2008 Lehman Brothers collapse so troublesome.
The Fed and FDIC also said Wells Fargo didn't make enough progress toward identifying shared services and establishing contingency arrangements in case of a bankruptcy.
 Wells Fargo wants less regulation
"Regulators are looking at every nook and cranny to see what they can find on Wells Fargo," said Mike Mayo, a veteran bank analyst at CSLA.
Mayo said the Wells Fargo living will decision shows how the more subjective aspects of bank regulation have become "murkier and murkier." He complained that the letter regulators wrote to Wells Fargo over the living will problems is "like a language unto itself."
Wells Fargo has found itself in a legal penalty box since the September fake account settlement.
Last month, a Wells Fargo regulator placed new restrictions on the bank that allow the government to reject the hiring of senior executives and more closely review branch openings and closures. Wells Fargo also faces investigations from the Department of Justice, SEC, Congress and state authorities.
"Corporate tax cuts could easily add 5% to 7% to profits annually going forward," writes Jonathan Golub, chief equity strategist at RBC Capital Markets. He projects U.S. stocks will soar 10% from where they are now.
Business and consumers seem more optimistic. If that translates into more spending at stores and on new equipment, Golub argues that it will be an even bigger boost to the economy and profits.
The S&P 500, a key index of American stocks, is currently sitting at about 2,270. It's up over 11% this year, well above the historic average (and far better than most experts projected).
Here's a rundown of S&P 500 forecasts for next year from some big banks:
Royal Bank of Canada (RY): 2,500 (+10% from current levels) Deutsche Bank (DB): 2,350 (+3.5%) Citigroup (C): 2,325 (+2%) Bank of America (BAC): 2,300 (+1%) Goldman Sachs (GS): 2,300 (+1%)
At first glance, many of these projections look low, but most were made a week ago -- when the S&P 500 was barely at 2,200. The market has risen rapidly since, but experts say they're still bullish.
 What Trump tech slump? Microsoft at all-time high
The bullish case
"We think this rally can continue for the next six to 12 months," says Katie Nixon, chief investment officer at Northern Trust Wealth Management. There's been a "fundamental improvement" in earnings and the economy.
Savita Subramanian, head of U.S. equity strategy at Bank of America Merrill Lynch agrees that there's a chance the bullish case will play out and the market will end 2017 at a high of 2,700 -- almost a 20% jump from where the market is trading now.
To get there -- or anywhere close -- Subramanian argues the market needs two things: euphoria (investors buying stocks and ditching bonds) and the Trump administration delivering on policy.
"We need to have some clarity [from Washington] in first couple of quarters. We've penciled in tax reform package," says Subramanian.
But she worries the market has already priced in tax cuts AND a big infrastructure spending bill. Infrastructure already looks in doubt as some Republicans balk at so much spending that would add to the already large ($19 trillion) debt. That's why her team has priced in a much more conservative gain of just 2,300 for the S&P 500 next year -- for now.
 What a Fed rate hike means for you
Watch out for inflation
Goldman Sachs, which now has four alums in key posts in Trump's transition team and cabinet, forecasts the market will jump in the first quarter as investor continue to bank on high "hopes" for action. They see the U.S. markets easily hitting 2,400.
"But less-than-expected tax cuts combined with higher inflation and interest rates will limit both upward EPS revisions and P/E multiple expansion," the bank writes, which is why it only predicts a small uptick in the S&P 500 by the end of 2017.
While there's a lot of focus on the Trump team, the bigger wild card may turn out to be inflation next year. There are already signs it's picking up, especially American worker wages.
"Joe 6 pack gets a raise," said a recent Bank of America report.
Some inflation is a good sign that economy is picking up again, but like just about everything in life, the ideal is to get inflation in moderation.
"Margins are high and they will come under pressure from rising labor costs and the stronger dollar," warns Russell Investments, an asset management firm. It's telling investors to stay diversified, even though bonds don't look so great.
If inflation gets out of control, the Federal Reserve will have to hike interest rates quickly and the second-longest bull market in U.S. history could stall, if not end.
"The post-election optimism driving markets in late 2016 could quickly change," says Russell Investments, which predicts the S&P 500 will end the year at a mere 2,100. In other words, a negative return year.
Ammunition imports have been rising for some time, in tandem with increasing gun sales. This latest data shows that the increase in imports has accelerated.
"It's very unusual in an import industry like this to see such a big move," Panjiva research analyst Chris Rogers told CNNMoney. "It tells you that there's a customer demand that's not being met by U.S. manufacturers."
The top foreign manufacturer is the South Korean company Poongsan Corp., followed by bullet makers Fiocchi Munizioni of Italy and Prvi Partizan of Serbia, according to Panjiva. Poonsang's bullets are imported by a California company called Topth, but the U.S. importer handling the largest supply of ammo is Eurosport of Texas.
 Gun sales boom on Black Friday
Gun imports actually dipped 13% in November, compared to a year ago, while imports of gun parts increased nearly 29%, said Panjiva.
The dip in gun imports doesn't mean that Americans are buying fewer guns, because they're actually buying more. But U.S. gun manufacturers like Smith & Wesson (SWHC) and Sturm Ruger (RGR) have aggressively expanded their own production to meet the rising demand, resulting in double-digit sales spikes.
The new direction of the NFL's A Crucial Catch campaign will allow teams to pick one form of cancer for the long term, choose a new type of cancer each year, or support multiple forms in one season.
A Crucial Catch targets screenable cancers, which include breast, cervical, colorectal, lung, prostate and uterine cancer, according to guidelines from the American Cancer Society.
However, teams will be able to choose to highlight any form of cancer -- not just the ones that should be regularly screened for.
 Maybe the NFL really can blame Trump and Clinton for its bad ratings
The new campaign will also feature a tool created by ACS to help people determine what types of cancer they should be screened for. Through the tool, they'll be able to schedule testing with doctors.
The main part of the campaign would take place in October -- as it does now for breast cancer awareness. However, screenings would be promoted year round over social media and online to specific groups.
For example, messages would be targeted to women over 40 during October's Breast Cancer Awareness month, to adults over 50 during March's Colorectal Cancer Awareness month, to women 25 and under during January's Cervical Cancer Awareness month.
The program raises money through the sale of pink NFL gear, but it's received criticism from health watchdog groups for the percentage of that money that goes to ACS. Critics also complain that the money isn't used to fund cancer research.
 The NFL is now hiring
During the first year of the new campaign, there won't be specific changes to uniforms, according to the NFL. It's unclear whether teams and the league will abandon the neon pink gloves, cleats and penalty flags that have become synonymous with October.
While details are still being finalized, if teams are able to sport different colors for different cancers, we may see dark blue for colon cancer, peach for uterine cancer or even zebra stripe for carcinoid cancer.
The state legislature in 2011 passed a bill letting insurers sell any policies in Georgia that they offer in other states. The legislation was hailed by supporters and business groups as a way to skirt the state's required benefit coverages — such as screenings for cervical, prostate and colorectal cancer, along with mammograms — and thus lower the sticker price of insurance.
The law is still in effect. But since it was passed, no health insurer has taken advantage of it.
Graham Thompson, executive director of the Georgia Association of Health Plans said that one obstacle to insurers selling out-of-state policies in Georgia is that "all health care is local — and all health care costs are local." So insurers still have to strike contracts with local hospitals and other medical providers.
 Uncertain fate of Obamacare leaves health care industry reeling
Bill Custer, a health insurance expert at Georgia State University, said a handful of other states have passed interstate insurance laws similar to Georgia's, but the effect has been the same.
Each state has its own set of health insurance regulations, though large employers that self-insure (those that use their own funds to cover employees' health expenses) are exempt from these state rules.
Graham Thompson, executive director of the Georgia Association of Health Plans, an industry group, said Wednesday that the GOP proposals aimed at helping health insurers are "a positive change in tune'' after industry losses suffered under the Affordable Care Act.
A federal law allowing interstate sales across the country "could be different'' from the more limited Georgia experience, Thompson said. "We'll have to see the details."
Currently, the idea of eliminating barriers to interstate sales is drawing some opposition from state insurance regulators and insurance industry officials, The Wall Street Journal reported last week. "That sounds like a silver bullet to solve a major problem, and there are no silver bullets," said Louisiana Insurance Commissioner Jim Donelon. "There are no simple answers."
 Obamacare chaos: Insurers may flee before new plan is in place
State insurance regulators told the Journal that in states requiring locally licensed insurers to offer extensive coverage, healthy people might abandon those companies to buy bare bones policies from out of state. That, in turn, would leave local plans insuring mostly people with health problems, who need broader, more expensive coverage. As the locally registered insurance companies absorb the financial hit, the state might feel pressure to relax standards to give them a break.
But the proposals pushed by Price and House Speaker Paul Ryan would still require a minimum set of essential benefits at the federal level in order to qualify for tax credits, said Custer of Georgia State. So the effect of interstate insurance could be minimal, he said.
"It's unlikely to have a large effect on competition in any market,'' he said.
An industry trade group, America's Health Insurance Plans, said in a statement to Georgia Health News on Wednesday that "our first interest is in providing consumers with competition and choice, which empowers them to better health and financial stability. We want to work with lawmakers to bring our experience and lessons learned to the table, and we want to cooperate and collaborate to find solutions that work for consumers.''
Some health law supporters have voiced concerns about the erosion of state consumer protections.
 Trump's health secretary pick has long record of service -- to doctors
Cindy Zeldin, executive director of consumer group Georgians for a Healthy Future, said interstate sales "would erode rights and protections for health care consumers, complicate their efforts to find in-network providers, and do little to nothing to improve affordability.''
More than 500,000 Georgians are at risk of losing their coverage if the ACA is repealed without an adequate replacement, she said. "Buying a health insurance plan from Texas or Idaho isn't going to solve the problem, and would leave consumers in Georgia with little recourse if they were treated unfairly by an insurance company based in another state or in cases of fraud."
Georgia Health News is an independent, nonprofit news service dedicated to state health care issues.
If any American company stands to benefit big from lifting sanctions on Russia, it would be Exxon. And with Tillerson being nominated as Trump's secretary of state, the lifelong Exxon man may be in a prime position to make that case.
"It's in Exxon's best interests for sanctions to be lifted. Out of all the energy companies, Exxon would be the biggest beneficiary," said Brian Youngberg, senior energy analyst at Edward Jones who covers Exxon.
The deal with the state-run Russian oil company Rosneft was no ordinary one. It represented a massive wager on the next half-century of the oil industry, and Tillerson "bet his career" on it, according to Fadel Gheit, a veteran energy analyst at Oppenheimer.
"The Arctic is the new frontier because it's virgin territory. The amount of oil there could be staggering," said Gheit.
Exxon estimates it may have lost as much as $1 billion because of the sanctions. Plus, the sanctions posed a huge obstacle that stood in the way of Exxon developing prized assets at a time when the company's older oilfields are getting depleted.

 Behind the deep ties between Tillerson and Russia
Tillerson's previous comments have made clear he's no fan of sanctions. In May 2014, Tillerson said Exxon does "not support sanctions" because they aren't effective unless they're well implemented, and that's difficult to do.
The Exxon man also hasn't been shy about a desire to resume operations in Russia's Arctic.
"We are very anxious to get back to work there," Tillerson told industry analysts in March.
While Tillerson said sanctions forced Exxon to "dismantle all of the capability and infrastructure" in the Russian Arctic, the company hasn't lost its foothold there. He said that Russia has "done things to help us hang on to the rights we have."
 Big pay cut in store if Exxon CEO becomes secretary of state
Of course, Tillerson's direct financial links to Exxon will likely have to be severed if he is approved to head the State Department. The 600,000 shares he's sitting on can be sold or put in vanilla investment funds to avoid a conflict of interest.
However, CNNMoney reported that Tillerson has also been promised more than 2 million Exxon shares over the next decade. That nest egg, worth a stunning $184 million at current prices, poses ethical and legal questions given the tremendous impact the nation's chief diplomat has over Exxon's business.
Tillerson has also been at Exxon his entire career, making more than $240 million since 2006. And his role at Exxon is why Tillerson was even considered for such a prestigious cabinet post in the first place.
These issues could give pause to lawmakers as they deliberate confirming Tillerson's nomination. Republican Senator Marco Rubio has already said he has "serious concern" about Tillerson as the next secretary of state, who he said must be "free of conflicts of interest."
 The problem with Tillerson's Exxon nest egg
Some doubt that Exxon would be investing heavily in Russia's Arctic right now anyway. Today's low oil prices make it difficult to justify spending gobs of money to find and pump notoriously-elusive Arctic oil.
"It would be mind-boggling for anybody to invest in the Arctic at current oil prices," said Pavel Molchanov, a Raymond James analyst who covers Exxon. "The significance of Russia should not be exaggerated. It's not the end-all or be-all for Exxon."
But Oppenheimer's Gheit argues that Exxon is playing the long game in Russia, not looking at today's low (but rising) oil prices.
"You don't build wells looking at your watch. It will take two or three generations of Exxon CEOs to really reap the benefits," he said.
 Exxon's CEO would be U.S. emissary on climate change
Exact figures on how much Exxon planned to spend on the Rosneft venture are hard to come by. The initial cost at the time of the announcement was $3.2 billion, but Gheit believes the eventual investment over four or five decades may be in the "hundreds of billions."
The importance of Exxon finding the next great oil frontier should not be underestimated.
Oil companies are constantly depleting their own assets over time. Last quarter, Exxon pumped an incredible 2.2 million barrels of oil each day -- oil that eventually needs to be replaced with new finds somewhere.
"They need to acquire a company the size of Hess (HES) every year -- forever -- just to keep their production flat," said Gheit.
The Rosneft deal is also critical to Tillerson's personal legacy at Exxon. Besides the uncertain Rosneft venture, Tillerson's 10-year stint as Exxon CEO lacks the transformational deal that his predecessor Lee Raymond can claim with the 1999 merger with Mobil.
"Tillerson doesn't have a big mark left behind, except the Arctic. This is the crowning achievement of his career," said Gheit.
--CNNMoney's Chris Isidore, Julia Horowitz and Jill Disis contributed to this report.
On Tuesday, President-elect Donald Trump said he would nominate Tillerson to be the nation's top diplomat. The Senate debate over his confirmation is expected to focus on Tillerson's ties to Russia. Some Republicans have already voiced reservations.
But Exxon's history on gay rights also may come up.
When Exxon (XOM) merged with Mobil in 1999, it eliminated Mobil's domestic partner benefits for gay and lesbian employees and removed a policy preventing discrimination on the basis on sexual orientation, according to HRC. At the time, Tillerson was a senior executive responsible for the company's operations in Russia.
When the Human Rights Campaign launched its Corporate Equality Index in 2002, Exxon received a score of 14%. The survey rates companies on policies, benefits and practices for LGBTQ employees and their families.
Tillerson, now 64, became chief executive in 2006. That year, the index changed its criteria, and Exxon's score went down to 0%.
 Exxon's longtime CEO would be America's emissary on climate change
Since Tillerson took over, ExxonMobil has slowly made improvements -- though that may have more to do with federal policy changes than moral leadership.
In 2013, Exxon reintroduced health coverage for the same-sex spouses of its employees. The change came after the Treasury Department ruled that legally married same-sex couples should be considered married for federal tax purposes.
"The decision is consistent with the direction of most U.S. government agencies," ExxonMobil said in a statement at the time. "We have made no change in the definition of eligibility for our U.S. benefit plans. Spousal eligibility in our U.S. benefit plans has been and continues to be governed by the federal definition of marriage and spouse."
The company adjusted its anti-discrimination policy in 2015 to include protections based on sexual orientation and gender identity, according to the Human Rights Campaign. That revision followed President Obama's 2014 executive order requiring federal contractors to protect LGBTQ workers against discrimination. Exxon regularly contracts with the U.S. government.
Some shareholders had been pushing since 1999 for Exxon to expand the anti-discrimination policy. New York's retirement fund for state employees filed a request every year starting in 2001.
The company consistently opposed those proposals, calling them unnecessary. Shareholders voted them down until Exxon changed its policy to conform to the executive order in 2015.
 Behind Tillerson's deep ties to Russia
Exxon says it has always barred discrimination against LGBTQ individuals.
"ExxonMobil does not discriminate, will not discriminate, and has not discriminated against members of the LGBT community. Period," former vice president for public affairs Ken Cohen wrote in a 2014 company blog post.
The company did not respond to a request for comment on this story.
The Human Rights Campaign now gives ExxonMobil an 85% rating on its Corporate Equality Index. It's an improvement, but the company still falls behind Walmart, Chevron, Apple and the 514 other businesses that earned a 100% score in the 2017 report.
Exxon's score was docked because its guidelines on philanthropy permit donations to non-religious organizations that discriminate against LGBTQ people, and because its anti-discrimination policy only covers LGBTQ employees in the U.S.
 Democrats plotting to thwart Obamacare repeal
"While 20 million Americans have gained coverage directly as a result of the Affordable Care Act, tens of millions more have benefited from the ACA and have a stake in its future," said Kathryn Martin, acting assistant secretary at the Department of Health and Human Services. "With important health policy debates already underway, we think it's critical for people to have the information they need to understand the many different ways the ACA has affected Americans' lives."
The administration trotted out new talking points estimating the broad reach of the Affordable Care Act. They include:
--  Based on the results of the universal coverage effort in Massachusetts that preceded Obamacare, expanded coverage under the Affordable Care Act is preventing 24,000 deaths a years. This is largely because more people are going to the doctor and getting treatment, said Jason Furman, chairman of the White House Council of Economic Advisers, which released the report. The share of Americans reporting that they have forgone medical care due to cost has fallen by a third since 2010.
-- Some 125,000 deaths were avoided between 2010 and 2015 due to improved care in hospitals, fewer medication errors and lower rates of infection.
-- Obamacare has helped slow the increase in health care costs, which has benefited those with work-based coverage. The average family insured through their job is paying $4,400 less in premiums and out-of-pocket costs than they would have been without Obamacare. Medicare enrollees are spending $700 less in premiums and out-of-pocket due to slower growth.
 Elizabeth Warren warns Trump: Don't cut Medicare and Medicaid
The report noted that the 22% average hike in premiums for 2017 is a one-time correction, not an indication of future instability. The adjustment addressed initial underpricing and a phase out of a program meant to shield insurers with high-cost patients.
On Monday, House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi sent a note to her Democratic colleagues citing the initiatives the Obama administration is taking to "inform the American people of what is at stake."
"There will continue to be an aggressive campaign to mobilize and inform the American people about the ACA," Pelosi wrote. "To protect the Affordable Care Act and Medicare, Democrats must move quickly to define and expose the consequences of Republicans' deeply destructive repeal plan."
The reports come only a few days after President Obama listed the benefits the law has provided, not only for the the roughly 10 million who signed up for policies on the Obamacare exchanges but for all Americans, in his weekly address.
 Why Obamacare could be the messiest battle of 2017
These include: free preventative care, including mammograms and contraception; the end to annual and lifetime coverage limits; prescription discounts for seniors; the ability for children to stay on their parents' plan until age 26; the slowest health care price growth in 50 years, and a ban on discriminating against those with pre-existing conditions.
"Now Republicans in Congress want to repeal the whole thing and start from scratch -- but trying to undo some of it could undo all of it," Obama said in the Saturday address. "All those consumer protections -- whether you get your health insurance from Obamacare, or Medicare, or Medicaid, or on the job -- could go right out the window. So any partisan talk you hear about repealing or replacing it should be judged by whether they keep all those improvements that benefit you and your family right now."
Obama also made a video with actor Bill Murray, urging people to sign up for coverage at healthcare.gov and letting them know not to worry if they have a pre-existing condition.
 Insurers to GOP: Here's what to do after Obamacare repeal
While President-elect Donald Trump, House Speaker Paul Ryan and Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell have promised to make repealing Obamacare a top priority for 2017, industry groups and think tanks are warning of the damage that will cause.
The Kaiser Family Foundation released a report Monday that estimated 27% of adult Americans under the age of 65 have health conditions that would likely leave them uninsurable if they applied for individual coverage under the practices in effect prior to Obamacare.
Republicans have promised to protect people with pre-existing conditions and allow children to stay on their parents' plans. But they have yet to release a detailed replacement plan, leaving many advocates concerned the consumer protections won't be as robust as they were under Obamacare.
Yes, all of these stocks were down more in the first few days after Trump's victory and have bounced back since. But Microsoft is still the best performer since the election.
One possible reason? The likelihood of lower taxes thanks to a Trump administration and Republican-controlled Congress.
Trump's proposal to allow companies to bring back, or repatriate, cash currently sitting overseas at a much lower tax rate would benefit Microsoft. He has called for a one-time tax rate of 10% -- down from 35% -- to return foreign-held cash back to the U.S.
Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella is one of several tech leaders that is set to meet Trump on Wednesday to discuss job creation and other topics. But the issue of corporate taxes could come up as well.
 Nadella, Elon Musk. Jeff Bezos and other tech giants to meet with Trump
Microsoft, according to its most recent quarterly filing with the SEC, had $111.1 billion of its total cash hoard of $136.9 billion held overseas.
Other older tech companies like Apple (AAPL, Tech30) and Oracle (ORCL, Tech30) also hold a big chunk of cash in foreign accounts. And those two have outperformed the likes of Facebook and Amazon since the election too.
If Microsoft and other tech giants were able to bring back their cash to the U.S., the hope is that they can use some of it to do things that would help the economy.
They could hire more workers, invest more in research and development, and purchase start-ups, for example.
Along those lines, one fund manager noted that investors have become more enamored with Microsoft lately because of its increased exposure to the rapidly growing cloud computing market, where it competes with Amazon and Salesforce (CRM, Tech30).
"Investors crave any information that shows the company is successfully transitioning from a mature growth desktop software company to a full fledged cloud play," said Daniel Morgan, senior portfolio manager with Synovus Trust Company.
 VC Peter Thiel adds tech allies to Trump transition team
But Microsoft and other older tech giants would probably push to satisfy their shareholders, too, though. They could use cash that's brought back home to boost stock buybacks and increase dividends.
"Larger technology sector companies would benefit significantly from Trump's proposed tax policies," said CFRA Research analyst Scott Kessler in a report about the tech sector shortly after the election.
Hank Smith, chief investment officer at Haverford Trust, agreed.
Smith even used some of Trump's lingo, saying in a note after the election that "the ability to repatriate foreign earnings will hugely benefit old technology companies" like Microsoft, Apple and Cisco (CSCO, Tech30).
Another possible reason why Microsoft could be holding up better than other tech stocks?
While several tech executives haven't been shy of voicing their displeasure with Trump. particularly due to concerns about immigration and what Trump might do to the H1-B visa program, Microsoft has been a bit more cordial.
Microsoft president and chief legal officer Brad Smith said in a blog post that boosting job growth and increased investments in infrastructure were two key areas Microsoft felt were among the most important issues for Trump and other leaders to address.
And in a LinkedIn post after the election, Nadella congratulated Trump and said he looked forward towards working with him and other leaders in Washington.
Interestingly, Microsoft now owns LinkedIn -- and Nadella has been far more conciliatory than LinkedIn co-founder Reid Hoffman, who bashed Trump repeatedly on the campaign, even creating a card game that made fun of him.
 2016 has been a terrible year for tech IPOs
Trump also hasn't publicly attacked Microsoft the way he has other big tech companies, most notably Amazon.
Although Trump might want to talk to Nadella about the bio Microsoft has of him on its online store.
He's listed as an "actor" with a "no-nonsense glare and distinctive comb-over" who "began seeking publicity through stunts like affiliating himself with the conspiracy-theorist 'birther' movement, and dropping the f-bomb in public statements about gas prices."
The bio concludes by noting that Trump won the Republican nomination for president -- but hasn't yet been updated with the news of his victory in the general election.
The nation's chief diplomat could have a tremendous impact on Exxon's business, from negotiations over a climate change treaty and sanctions on Russia to the nuclear deal with Iran and general geopolitical unrest in the Middle East.
"There's too much the state department does that affects the oil industry," said Richard Painter, a former ethics lawyer for President George W. Bush. "It's not workable to have a secretary of state sitting on a bunch of oil company stock."
On top of the 2 million future shares in Exxon, Tillerson already has about 600,000 shares. Those would be relatively easy to dispense with. He can sell them and put the money in investments approved by the government, such as mutual funds. A federal tax provision even allows him to defer any potential capital gains taxes when he sells.
 Donald Trump's latest vague pledge - No 'new' business deals
The trickier part of Tillerson's case are the shares he has been promised. Under the company's rules, he's due to receive a chunk of stock every year for the next decade.
That's where the potential for conflicts comes in: Tillerson would know the schedule for when he is due to receive those shares, and his actions in office could influence their value.
"It's a crime to participate in any government action that has predictable effect on your investment holdings," Painter said.
To avoid that problem, or the prospect that Tillerson would forfeit the 2 million shares, Exxon (XOM) could change its rules and give Tillerson the stock when he leaves the company.
But that would be a tremendous favor for the future secretary of state, a move that in itself could raise ethical and conflict of interest questions. A spokesman for ExxonMobil wouldn't comment if the company is considering such a change.
Or Trump could grant Tillerson a waiver from having to follow the conflict of interest laws, a step he could legally do once he is in office. But that option too would just further arm critics concerned about potential conflicts.
Of course, Tillerson could walk away from the 2 million shares. He could still sell the 600,000 shares he already controls -- currently worth about $55.6 million. But he would be giving up a pot of money worth $184 million in today's prices.
But the stock has rebounded since then and is now trading a little bit higher than where it was before the election.
Rising oil prices could be great news for Tesla (TSLA).
 Musk, Bezos and other tech execs prepare to meet with Trump
If the trend continues, more consumers might be willing to spurn gas-guzzling cars and trucks for electric vehicles like Tesla's Model S, Model X crossover and the upcoming Model 3 -- which will be Tesla's most affordable car at a price of about $35,000.
Oil prices have spiked in the past few weeks mainly due to OPEC's agreement to cut production. But having a pro-oil leader in the White House can't hurt either.
Trump seemed to hint in an interview this past weekend with Fox News that he could restart the Keystone Pipeline and Dakota Pipeline oil projects that have recently been halted by the Obama administration.
In the same interview, Trump said he was keeping an open mind about climate change and refused to acknowledge the impact fossil fuels have had on global warming.
And Trump just nominated the biggest of Big Oil execs, ExxonMobil (XOM) CEO Rex Tillerson, to be his Secretary of State.
 Tillerson will be America's emissary on climate change
If oil prices continue to climb, and bring gas prices higher as well, that could be good for U.S. energy companies. It could also be good for Tesla.
Of course, there is a lot more going on with Tesla beyond what's going on in Washington.
Despite the recent rebound, shares are still down nearly 20% this year. Investors are skeptical about Tesla's purchase of SolarCity, the alternative energy company run by two of Musk's cousins. That deal just closed a few weeks ago.
Tesla also faces tough competition from other big automakers in the electric car market. GM (GM), for example, has beaten Tesla to the punch by getting its lower priced electric vehicle, the Chevrolet Bolt, to market first.
What's more, the Bolt can go for 238 miles before needing a charge, while the Model 3 is expected to need more juice after 215 miles.
So there are still many reasons for investors to be worried about Tesla even though higher oil prices could be good for electric car sales.
 Tesla shareholders approve SolarCity merger
Still, maybe Musk and Trump will hit it off at Wednesday's big meeting. Job creation is expected to be a key area of focus at the powwow.
And Trump hasn't exactly been friendly with Ford (F) and GM due to the fact that they make many cars in Mexico. Tesla, meanwhile, has been a big job creator.
Salesforce (CRM, Tech30) CEO Marc Benioff, a vocal Trump critic, even tweeted a link to a story in the New York Times last week about how Musk has helped create 35,000 manufacturing jobs in the U.S.
In the last decade @elonmusk has created 35,000 manufacturing jobs in the us. Inspiring. pic.twitter.com/XtVqHldQup
Musk and Trump may seem like strange bedfellows to be sure.
Remember the story earlier this year about Musk supposedly being part of a secret meeting with other tech leaders and politicians to try and take down Trump? Musk denied that the meeting was about Trump though.
But hey, who would have thought that the Dow would be near 20,000 one month after Trump's win? Nothing seems normal anymore on Wall Street, Silicon Valley or Washington.
The Fed put rates at zero in December 2008 to revive the collapsed housing market during the Great Recession. Now, America is no longer in crisis mode and the economy can bear paying higher rates. A rate hike is a sign that the U.S. economy is improving.
Here's how the Fed's rate hikes could affect you.
1. Savings accounts will pay more
American savers have struggled for years, earning next to nothing at the bank. Now they could be a step closer to light at the end of that tunnel and earn a little more interest on savings account deposits.
When the Fed raises short-term rates, banks pay customers higher interest on their deposits. But how much higher and how fast they will go up will depend on whether the Fed will keep raising rates.
To start seeing a real difference, it could take one to two years at least, experts say. After all, the Fed is expected to raise by just 0.25% on Wednesday. Officials may say they will raise rates two or three times next year, but that could change very quickly depending on the economy's performance.
Last December, the Fed said it would raise rates four times in 2016. But that didn't really happen. This week, if the Fed does raise rates, it will be the first one of the year.
Bottom line: if rates go up Wednesday, it's good news for savers but you still need to be patient.
2. Big ticket buyers: rates are rising but still low
Even though the Fed controls short-term interest rates, its decisions partially impact long-term interest rates for mortgages.
A rate hike does NOT guarantee that mortgage rates are going up. Last year, the Fed did one rate hike and mortgage rates went down this year.
However, the rate hike this time comes at a time when the interest on a 10-year U.S. Treasury bond is going up. And mortgage rates are very closely tied to the 10-year note, the yield on which has risen rapidly by about 0.7 percentage points since the election.

The typical fixed rate on a 30-year mortgage is currently around 4.1%. It's risen significantly since the election because President-elect Donald Trump's promises to cut taxes and increase government spending triggered volatility in U.S. bonds. Before the election, a typical 30-year fixed rate mortgage was 3.5%, according to Freddie Mac.
So rates have risen quickly but they are still low. During the last economic expansion -- 2001 to 2007 -- mortgage rates hovered between 5% and 7%. In the 1990s, rates were even higher, shifting between 7% and 9%.
Over time, as the Fed raises rates more, mortgage rates are expected to move up too.

3. Fed likely won't end the Trump market rally Wednesday
Stock markets used to tremble at the mere hint of a Fed rate hike. When the Fed raises rates, that increases borrowing costs for companies, strengthens the dollar and it can cool down spending plans. All those can factors can pinch profits.
But Trump's promise to rev up infrastructure spending and lower corporate tax rates has U.S. stock markets at all-time highs. And just about everyone -- 97% of investors -- believes a rate hike is coming Wednesday, so it won't be a shocker.
However, if the Fed starts raising rates faster than expected next year, the stock market's glory ride could hit some bumps as borrowing costs rise and the dollar gets stronger.
A strong dollar tends to make U.S. products like iPhones more expensive -- and less attractive -- to foreign buyers.
All to say: Investors won't be biting their nails on Wednesday unless Fed Chair Janet Yellen indicates rates may rise faster.
4. Trump could have to handle a hawkish Fed in 2017
The President-elect's big spending plans could drive up demand for all types of goods. Higher demand could increase the pace of inflation, which has been very sleepy the last few years and a big reason why wage growth has been low.
If inflation gets going, the Fed could raise rates faster to keep up with it.
Along with home mortgages, higher rates increase the interest on credit card payments and auto loans. That could cool spenders' appetite. Consumers make up the majority of economic activity in America.
Still, rates are historically very low. The Fed has tried to prop up the economy since the Great Recession with super low interest rates. Trump called it a "false economy" during his campaign.
In any case, the burden of sparking stronger economic growth is shifting to Trump from the Fed. The central bank's role will diminish as the government action will pick up. Trump promises to rebuild America's roads, bridges and tunnels.
But both sides are certainly looking at different crystal balls. Trump is promising 4% annual growth. The Fed is projecting 2% annual growth until 2019.
 Cuisinart slammed over China labor laws
The recall covers 22 models of food processor that were made in China and sold between 1996 and 2015. The blades in question have four rivets.
The cartel has agreed to cut its overall production by 1.2 million barrels a day starting in January. A group of non-OPEC nations -- including Russia, Mexico, Kazakhstan and Oman -- have also committed to slash output.
The collective action helped push prices to a new 2016 high above $53 per barrel on Monday.
Paris-based IEA said in its monthly report that if all parties stick to the agreement, "the market is likely to move into deficit in the first half of 2017 by an estimated 600,000 barrels a day."
 Remember: OPEC almost always cheats
But the IEA also warned that the oil market outlook remains uncertain in the longer term. That's because the production cuts were only agreed for six months, with a review due in May.
"This can be seen as prudent given the underlying uncertainties in the oil market and the global economy but also a warning that production restraint might not be extended," said the agency.
OPEC producers want to cut production in order to push prices higher -- but only within certain limits. If prices rise too far, high-cost producers including the U.S. shale industry could start pumping again.
 Oil prices leap after Russia and others agree to output cuts
But the IEA noted that some U.S. shale producers are already making new investments. The industry has put 161 rigs back in service since May, when the number of rigs dropped to just 316.
In November alone, the number of rigs in operation increased by 36 to 477.
"It is not the rate decision so much as the nuances around it that excite investors," noted Paul Donovan, global chief economist of wealth management at UBS. "Worrying about the Fed gives a reassuring -- perhaps false -- sense of being normal in an era of abnormalities."
2. 14,000 job cuts: Italy's UniCredit (UNCFF) has announced that job cuts at the bank will reach 14,000 by 2019, which is equivalent to about 10% of its workforce. It also plans to raise €13 billion ($13.8 billion).
This is the latest attempt by a major Italian bank to stabilize its finances.
Shares in UniCredit jumped 5% following the announcement, and helped lift the overall market index in Milan. But UniCredit shares are still down about 50% since the start of the year.
Competing bank Monte dei Paschi is also struggling to cobble together €5 billion ($5.3 billion) from private investors in an attempt to avoid a state bailout.
Before the Bell newsletter: Key market news. In your inbox. Subscribe now!
3. Deal hangover: Shares in Asahi Group fell 4.6% in Tokyo as investors reacted to the company's deal to buy beer businesses from Anheuser-Busch InBev (BUD).
The purchase will expand the Japanese drinks giant's operations into the Czech Republic, Slovak Republic, Poland, Hungary and Romania. Pilsner Urquell is included in the deal.
4. Monitoring Trump's moves: President-elect Donald Trump has nominated ExxonMobil (XOM) CEO Rex Tillerson to serve as secretary of state.
Tillerson, 64, has no formal foreign policy experience, but the oil man has built close relationships with many world leaders by closing big deals on behalf of his firm.
"His tenacity, broad experience and deep understanding of geopolitics make him an excellent choice for secretary of state," Trump said in a statement.
Trump also announced overnight that he is postponing an important press conference scheduled for Thursday. The real estate magnate had promised to discuss plans to avoid conflicts of interest in the White House.
Trump owns or has a position in more than 500 companies, according to a CNN analysis.
Download CNN MoneyStream for up-to-the-minute market data and news
5. Stock market overview: U.S. stock futures are pushing up, putting the Dow Jones industrial average on track to hit another all-time high when trading commences.
The Dow and S&P 500 each hit all-time highs on Monday.
European markets are mostly rising in early trading and the majority of Asian markets ended the day with gains.
6. Coming this week:
Tuesday - FOMC meeting starts Wednesday - FOMC meeting finishes with a news conference; First rate hike in a year expected Thursday - Bank of England rate decision; Super Mario Run for the iPhone releases; Venezuela's new currency debuts Friday - "Star Wars Rogue One" nationwide release in the U.S.
The bank plans to move €17.7 billion in bad loans off its balance sheet by packaging them and selling them to investors. And it will take a charge of €12.2 billion in the fourth quarter.
Unicredit (UNCFF) also sold a number of businesses as part of its rethink.
Shares in the bank jumped 5% in Milan. They have lost roughly 50% of their value so far this year.
Italy's banking sector has become a top worry for investors in recent months. The country has more bank branches than pizzerias, according to the OECD, and they struggle with high costs and low returns.
They're also struggling with a legacy of bad loans. The country's banks have accumulated $380 billion of non-performing loans during years of recession.
 Can the world's oldest bank survive Italy's upheaval?
The most dire case is Monte dei Paschi di Siena (BMDPF), the world's oldest operating bank. It's currently racing to raise €5 billion ($5.3 billion) after it failed an official test of its financial health earlier this year.
If the bank fails to convince investors to put up the cash, the state could be forced to bail it out.
 Italy's referendum risks pushing banks over the edge
Political and economic uncertainty following the resignation of Prime Minister Matteo Renzi appears to have kept investors from signing on the dotted line. Still, Monte dei Paschi is trying one more time to save itself.
Renzi stepped down after voters rejected constitutional reforms he had championed. His departure has plunged Italy's political system into disarray and raised the likelihood of early elections in which eurosceptic parties could make major gains.
-- Nina dos Santos contributed reporting.
But his assertion that "no new deals will be done during my term(s) in office" fails to address concerns about how his tangled web of existing holdings around the world might conflict with the job of presiding over the world's biggest economy and most powerful military.
Even though I am not mandated by law to do so, I will be leaving my busineses before January 20th so that I can focus full time on the......
Presidency. Two of my children, Don and Eric, plus executives, will manage them. No new deals will be done during my term(s) in office.

What's more, real estate companies require all kinds of "deals" to function, like loans from banks and leases with tenants.
"Even though I am not mandated by law to do so, I will be leaving my busineses before January 20th so that I can focus full time on the presidency," Trump wrote on Twitter, misspelling the word "businesses."
"Two of my children, Don and Eric, plus executives, will manage them," he said, referring to his adult sons. "No new deals will be done during my term(s) in office."
 Donald Trump postpones news conference until January
Trump owns or has a position in more than 500 companies, according to a CNN analysis. That includes about 150 that have done business in at least 25 foreign countries, including Turkey, Qatar and Saudi Arabia.
There have been growing questions about the potential conflicts of interest posed by Trump's continued business interests and his role as president. A poll by CNN last month found that 6 in 10 Americans believe Trump is not doing enough to address conflicts of interest.
 How Donald Trump might handle conflicts of interest
While details about his planned separation from the business are not yet known, many ethics experts have questioned whether simply turning his businesses over to his children does enough avoid conflicts of interest.
They point out that Trump's children would still be able to discuss business matters with him, potentially influencing his policy decisions.
Ethics lawyers say Trump should follow predecessors Jimmy Carter, Bill Clinton and George W. Bush and use a blind trust. That would involve selling his assets and putting the proceeds in the hands of a trustee with whom he has no previous business ties.
 Donald Trump vows to remove himself from business
Trump said Monday night that he would hold a press conference "in the near future to discuss the business, Cabinet picks and all other topics of interest."
Earlier Monday, his campaign said a press conference scheduled for Thursday, which would have been Trump's first since July, had been pushed back to next month.
His tweet about which of his children would run his businesses didn't mention his daughter Ivanka, who has been house hunting with her husband in Washington. Her husband, Jared Kushner, is expected to serve as an adviser to Trump and there's speculation Ivanka may also take a role in the administration.
-- Chris Isidore, Cristina Alesci and Jill Disis contributed to this report.
Walmart said it expects "no more than a few thousand" people to be eligible for the settlement.
Cote said she's happy the case has been settled.
"I'm pleased that Walmart was willing to resolve this issue for me and other associates who are married to someone of the same sex," Cote said in a statement. "It's a relief to bring this chapter of my life to a close."
Sally Welborn, Walmart's senior vice president of Global Benefits, said, "We're happy both sides could come together to reach a resolution."
Walmart began offering insurance benefits to same-sex couples at the start of 2014 after the Supreme Court overturned the Defense of Marriage Act.
"We feel a remedy that excludes a full recall of the uniform fails to adequately protect our members," the union said in a statement.
The union said the flight attendants have been reporting headaches, rashes, hives, burning skin, eye irritation, itching, and respiratory problems they said are related to the new uniforms.
'Passport Plum' and 'Groundspeed Graphite': Delta unveils new uniforms
An American Airlines (AAL) spokesman said the Fort Worth-based carrier has finished its third round of lab evaluations and has offered its employees dermatological testing to help establish what might be causing the reactions.
"We know some people are having reactions and we're looking into why," the spokesman said, but said it was not yet ready to issue a recall. "We have no doubt the uniforms are safe."
New uniforms were rolled out for 70,000 employees in September as part of an uniform overhaul for the airline, which merged with U.S. Airways in 2013.
The airline and the flight attendant union appear to be at odds over the cause of then reactions. So far 600 staff have ordered non-wool versions and 200 more are wearing the old uniforms. The union is concerned that the manufacturing, not the type of fabric, is the source of the problem.
Vendor In The Spotlight
American's uniform vendor, Twin Hill, has been at the center of airline staff complaints before. Alaska Airlines in 2011 selected Twin Hill for its new flight attendant uniforms, but quickly received complaints similar to those of American staff.
Alaska recalled the Twin Hill uniforms for its flight attendants by 2014.
"Ultimately we were looking for certain sourcing standards to ensure the safety of the garments," said an Alaska Airlines spokeswoman on Friday.
In 2012, 164 Alaska Airlines flight attendants, separately from their union, filed a class-action suit against Twin Hill claiming its uniforms caused allergic reactions as a result of a chemical called Disperse Orange 37/76. In October, Twin Hill won a court verdict that rejected those claims.
Tailored Brands (TLRD), Twin Hill's parent company, which also owns retailer Men's Warehouse, did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
Correction: An earlier version of this article incorrectly reported where American Airlines is based.
Carrier confirmed to CNNMoney on Friday that it never planned to move 300 administrative and engineering positions. Those jobs are at a different Indianapolis location, separate from the plant with the 1,400 factory worker jobs that has been in the headlines recently.
Under the deal with Trump, Carrier agreed to keep the furnace part of the plant open, saving 800 jobs in Indianapolis. But it's still moving 600 jobs to Mexico to make fan coils.
 How Donald Trump got Carrier to stay
The company laid out the moves in a letter to employees Thursday, saying it expects the move will be completed by the end of 2017.
Carrier also confirmed Friday that a second factory owned by Carrier corporate parent United Technologies (UTX) is also still moving to Mexico. That move will cost Indiana another 700 jobs.
The Trump transition team did not respond to a request for comment about the jobs moving to Mexico.
 Trump says he'll punish companies for leaving U.S.
In its letter to employees, Carrier said that laid-off workers will have the chance to transfer to open jobs at other United Technologies plants around the country. They'll also receive up to four years of tuition assistance to go back to school and train for another job.
It's also possible that the company will offer some Indianapolis factory workers a buyout.
Chuck Jones, president of the local unit of the United Steelworkers union which represents Carrier workers, said that he hopes the company will offer workers the chance to leave voluntarily with the severance package that was previously negotiated -- one week of pay for every year of service.
 1,000 jobs saved by Trump. Thousands more to go
Ideally, more senior workers at the plant would take the package and retire and save the jobs of younger workers. The plant has a large number of senior employees.
"For workers who have 40 years in and were getting close to retirement, that 40 weeks pay might look pretty good," Jones said. But severance talks have yet to start.
The OPEC decision marks a significant shift in the Saudi Arabia-led cartel's two-year price war against U.S. shale. Investors are betting OPEC's decision to stop flooding the world with oil will ease the supply glut that caused prices to collapse in the first place.
"OPEC made a very serious and very credible cut. The market got all it could have hoped for from OPEC," said Michael Wittner, global head of oil research at Societe Generale.
Doubts had been growing about OPEC's ability to reach a deal, causing oil prices to plunge just before Wednesday's meeting. In the end, oil spiked 12% on the week, the biggest weekly gain since 2011, leaving oil prices at nearly double their 13-year low of $26 a barrel from February.
The good news for drivers is prices at the pump remain low, at least so far. The average gallon of gasoline fetched $2.16 on Friday, up from $2.13 a week ago, according to AAA.
 OPEC raises the white flag in battle with U.S.
So how high will oil prices go?
Anthony Starkey, energy analysis manager at Bentek Energy, an analytics and forecasting unit of Platts, said crude could range between $50 to $60 a barrel in the first half of next year.
However, Starkey said the rally's "sustainability is sure to be questioned" as investors wait to see whether OPEC adheres to its own production limits. The cartel has a mixed track record, at best.
Even former Saudi oil minister Ali al-Naimi on Friday said, "We tend to cheat," according to Bloomberg.
Wittner put it this way: "We need to see OPEC deliver."
The other force that could limit oil's rise is the wall of American shale oil just waiting to be pumped now that prices are higher. In many ways, OPEC's decision to cut production reflects a recognition that this new competition from the U.S. can't be drowned with cheap oil.
In fact, U.S. producers have emerged stronger and leaner, allowing them to pump at prices that were once too low.
MLB currently partners with Majestic Athletic for its uniforms, but that deal is set to end in 2019.
If Under Armour is named as the league's new uniform provider, it would be the company's first major deal with one of the top four pro sports leagues in the U.S.
 Trump once trashed new team member's 'rotten job' with Cubs
Under Armour already has a deal to outfit athletes at the NFL combine, and has partnered with several universities to outfit their athletes.
The company also sponsors individual MLB athletes, including Dodgers ace Clayton Kershaw, Giants catcher Buster Posey, Dee Gordon of the Marlins and Bryce Harper of the Washington Nationals.
Under Armour is also a sponsor of several professional international soccer clubs, including England's Tottenham Hotspur club, Mexico's Cruz Azul and Japan's Omiya Ardija club.
That $3.2 trillion represents the combined amount spent on health care by all players, including the federal government, individuals, businesses, and state and local governments.
Total U.S. health spending reached nearly $10,000 per person last year, up 5% from the prior year. And as a share of the economy, it rose to 17.8% of GDP, up from 17.4% in 2014.
The increase is largely because of expanded health coverage under the ACA and greater use of health care services, the journal Health Affairs noted in an analysis of the CMS data. In 2013, 86% of the population was insured. By 2015, nearly 91% was.
Overall growth in health expenditures last year was driven largely by money spent on private health insurance (up 7.2%), hospital care (up 5.6%) and physician and clinical services (up 6.3%).
Meanwhile, out-of-pocket costs for individuals (e.g., copays, coinsurance, deductibles and money spent on non-covered services) rose 2.6% to $338.1 billion. That's up from a 1.4% growth rate in 2014.
For the second year in a row, the dubious award for fastest growth, however, goes to retail prescription drug spending, up 9%. "[That's] primarily due to increased spending on new medicines, price growth for existing brand-name drugs, increased spending on generics and a decrease in the number of expensive blockbuster drugs whose patents expired," according to Health Affairs.
 Obamacare critic is Trump's pick for health secretary
The rate of growth in national health care spending had been at record lows from 2009 through 2013, muted by the weak economy and some ACA measures meant to limit expenditures. But it began to grow again in 2014, as more Americans received coverage through the ACA exchanges and Medicaid expansion.
Republicans have long vowed to repeal and replace "Obamacare" as the ACA is known. Now that they will control the White House and both chambers of Congress in January, however, the party appears to be split on just how they'll go about doing that.
And nearly half of Americans (49%) say they don't want it repealed.
"It was a strong weekend for retailers, but an even better weekend for consumers, who took advantage of some really incredible deals," said NRF President and CEO Matthew Shay in a news release.
 America goes shopping: Crowds hit the stores for Black Friday 2016
NRF officials attributed the difference mostly to heavy discounting brought on by a "promotional environment" in stores. According to the organization, about 36% of shoppers this year said all of their purchases were on sale, compared to 32.5% last year.
And although Black Friday is still a big hit for brick-and-mortar deal seekers, shoppers are slowly but increasingly turning online.
The NRF data shows more than 108 million people shopped online over the weekend, about 5 million more than last year. Meanwhile, 99 million people said they shopped in stores, down 3 million from last year. The numbers, the organization noted, are not mutually exclusive.
 Gun sales boom on Black Friday
Online shopping during the holiday weekend is a multi-billion dollar business, according to Adobe, which tracks data from online purchases across the 100 biggest retailers. Shoppers spent $1.9 billion online on Thanksgiving Day and another $3.3 billion on Friday, according to Adobe.
Despite the big numbers over the weekend, there aren't too many shoppers who are finished making purchases this holiday season, according to NRF.
The NRF survey found that only 9% of consumers are done shopping, down from 11% last year. Nearly a quarter of those surveyed haven't done any shopping yet, the data showed.
The NRF survey asked 4,330 consumers about their Thanksgiving weekend shopping plans and was conducted Friday and Saturday. It did not report how much in total the 154 million shoppers spent. The survey has a 1.5% margin of error.
2. O'Hare airport strike: Hundreds of workers at Chicago O'Hare International Airport plan to strike on Tuesday. The airport is a hub for both American Airlines (AAL) and United Airlines (UAL).
Janitors, baggage handlers, cabin cleaners and wheelchair attendants are asking for a $15 hourly wage. The strike won't affect more critical workers, such as air traffic controllers and security screeners.
3. Trump appointments: President-elect Donald Trump could appoint key members of his economic team this week.
Billionaire investor Wilbur Ross is considered the leading contender for commerce secretary. Steven Mnuchin, a former Goldman Sachs (GS) exec turned Hollywood producer, is said to be the top pick for Treasury secretary. Jonathan Gray, who heads real estate for private equity firm Blackstone (BX), said last week that he was out of the running.
4. Jobs report: Trump, who says he'll spend $1 trillion on infrastructure projects to boost U.S. employment, and the rest of us will see an updated set of American jobs numbers on Friday.
In October, the U.S. economy added a solid 161,000 jobs. Unemployment edged down to 4.9% -- now half of what it was in 2009, when unemployment peaked at 10%.
5. Coming this week: Monday - Cyber Monday Tuesday - Report on GDP in the U.S.; Chicago O'Hare airport workers set to strike Wednesday - OPEC meeting, U.K. economic forecast  Thursday - Auto sales Friday - U.S. jobs report
Scheduled U.S. air links to Cuba have been growing rapidly. On Tuesday, United Airlines (UAL) starts flying to the island and on Thursday, Delta (DAL) Air Lines will begin commercial flights from the U.S. to Cuba for the first time in 55 years.
Jetblue Airways (JBLU), American Airlines (AAL), Southwest Airlines (LUV) and smaller carrier Silver Airways began regular flights to Cuba earlier this year and plan to expand their offerings in the coming weeks.
Frontier Airlines and Spirit Airlines will take off in December and Alaska Airlines (ALK) in January. The U.S. Transportation Department has also approved Minnesota-based Sun Country Airlines for flights.
 U.S. restores commercial flights to Cuba
While major airlines have praised the restored flights, you'll still face restrictions getting there.
U.S. tourism to Cuba is still illegal, so Americans need to fit one of 12 "authorized travel" categories to go. Those categories include travel for athletic competitions, educational research and family visits.
The regulations are very specific. For example, travelers from the U.S. are allowed to visit a "close relative." Rules define a close relative as someone connected to you "by blood, marriage, or adoption" no more than three generations removed from you or a common ancestor, according to the Treasury Department.
Once you've signed an affidavit swearing your trip falls under an approved category, you'll need to obtain a visa and travel insurance. All of those steps can be completed through your airline.
On Saturday morning, a roundtrip Delta ticket from New York's John F. Kennedy airport to Havana's José Martí International Airport cost as little as $204 for travel in mid-January. That same trip in mid-May will set you back around $300. Ticket prices, of course, can vary widely depending on the airline, travel dates, airports and travel agency.
 Cuban baseball smugglers used threats and 'kidnapping'
Delta spokesperson Anthony Black said many Americans are seizing the opportunity to visit Cuba.
"There's definitely interest," he told CNNMoney Saturday.
Delta hopes ticket sales will grow as more people become aware of ticket availability. Direct flights on Delta to Havana will be available from New York, Atlanta and Miami, with one flight from each city per day.
-- CNNMoney's Jon Ostrower contributed to this report.
Wells Fargo and other financial companies have frequently used this tactic to stop class action lawsuits. They point to the agreements customers sign that contains fine print requiring them to enter arbitration.
But these forced arbitration clauses are controversial because it helps hide misbehavior by companies in private mediation rather than opening it up to scrutiny in public court documents. And customers suing large corporations for small amounts of money may not be able to find lawyers willing to take on the case.
 Feds 'tightening the straitjacket' around Wells Fargo
Wells Fargo is being sued over the creation of as many as 2 million accounts that customers did not authorize. The overwhelming majority of those victims were already customers of the bank, which means they may have signed away their right to join class action lawsuits.
Still, angry politicians have asked Wells Fargo to waive this arbitration clause for customers claiming to have been hurt by the fake accounts. The scandal sparked a national outrage, congressional hearings, countless investigations and the sudden retirement of longtime CEO John Stumpf.
Wells Fargo has apologized for the wrongdoing and alleged mistreatment of workers. The bank launched a national TV advertising campaign that aired during the World Series and featured the company's iconic stagecoach. The ad pledged, "Wells Fargo is making changes to make things right."
However, Wells Fargo recently signaled it would continue to try to enforce these arbitration clauses. In response to questions from Senate Democrats over this issue, Wells Fargo said it "believes that the use of arbitration is a fair and efficient process that serves the needs of both parties."
 Dark clouds hover over big banks' Trump party
Zane Christensen, a lawyer representing customers in the class action, said that his firm is "saddened" by Wells Fargo's response and will "vigorously defend" against the bank's motion.
"Wells Fargo isn't concerned about making things right with their customers. Wells Fargo is worried about making things right in public relations," Christensen said.
In a statement, Wells Fargo said it is "working hard to rebuild trust in our company" and noted that it makes "every attempt" to resolve complaints directly with customers before going to arbitration.
The bank said it's offering "fast and free" mediation at no cost to customers through an impartial third-party.
Wells Fargo had come under fire during the presidential campaign for its use of forced arbitration clauses. Hillary Clinton said, "We can't let corporations like Wells Fargo use these fine print 'gotchas' to escape accountability."
While Clinton said she would call on Congress to give federal agencies the power to restrict the use of arbitration clauses, President-elect Donald Trump has not indicated his stance on the Wells Fargo lawsuits.
If they hold onto their gains when the markets open, we will see fresh record highs from the Dow Jones industrial average and S&P 500.
On Wednesday, the Dow and S&P 500 closed at their highest levels ever. Markets were closed on Thursday for Thanksgiving.
U.S. markets will close early on Friday because of the holiday. Trading stops at 1 p.m. ET.
2. Global stock market overview: European markets are mixed in early trading.
Asian markets ended the week with decent gains.
Before the Bell newsletter: Key market news. In your inbox. Subscribe now!
3. Oil prices slide: Crude oil futures are sliding a bit Friday, down roughly 1% to trade around $47.50 per barrel.
Traders are looking ahead to a major OPEC meeting next Wednesday when some of the largest oil-producing nations will try to formalize an agreement to cut production from record high levels.
Getting all major players to agree on a plan has been difficult in the past.
A significant cut in production should help taper supply and boost prices.
Download CNN MoneyStream for up-to-the-minute market data and news
4. U.K. GDP update: New official data confirm the U.K. economy grew 2.3% in the third quarter, despite forecasts that it would slump after the Brexit vote.
The data matched an earlier, preliminary GDP report.
"While the unchanged GPD figures could point to some economic stability, concerns still remain elevated over the Brexit outcome diminishing business investment and consequently pressuring the vulnerable pound further," said Lukman Otunuga, a research analyst at FXTM.
The pound is currently trading around $1.25. That's down 17% since the Brexit referendum in June.
5. Coming this week: Friday - Black Friday
The deals didn't last long at some stores. A Target in McAllen, Texas, quickly sold out of the Amazon Fire TV stick, on sale for $29.99. And at a nearby Walmart (WMT), the Nintendo 3DS, which was on sale for $99, was also reported out of stock.
At Macy's (M) flagship store in Manhattan, 16,000 people were waiting outside an hour before it opened its doors on Thanksgiving, CEO Terry Lundgren told CNN's Brooke Baldwin. He added that fragrances, technology like the Apple (AAPL, Tech30) Watch, and clothing are hot items this year.
"It's finally getting a little cold," he said. "It's been like a year since we've sold cold-weather apparel."
One thing shoppers won't find at Macy's: The Donald Trump line of menswear. Macy's dropped it last year, and Lundgren said Friday there are no plans to bring it back.
"You really cannot have the product of a political-oriented person in your store because 48% of the people aren't going to like that, right?" he said on CNN.
Macy's website was also popular on Black Friday. Some online shoppers were faced with a "temporary shopping jam!" notice during the day when trying to access the site.
Many shoppers are choosing to skip the crowds and shop online.
Shoppers spent $1.9 billion online on Thanksgiving Day and another $3.3 billion on Friday, according to data from Adobe, which tracks data about online purchases across the 100 biggest retailers. Mobile shopping has also picked up steam, with a record $1.2 billion coming from customers on their phones on Friday.
Target reported more than 60% of its online sales came from mobile customers, while Amazon reported mobile orders on Turkey Day exceeded Thanksgiving and Cyber Monday last year.
Despite the move toward online shopping, stores and malls were crowded with shoppers looking to snag bargains. A fight broke out in a mall in Modesto, California, but it was unclear what provoked it.
Black Friday is one of the biggest shopping days of the year, but it has expanded in recent years.
Several stores this year hyped additional savings online, some of which have been available since early this month. Amazon (AMZN, Tech30) launched a Black Friday Deals Store on Nov. 8. Stores like JCPenney and Kohl's began promoting Black Friday sales prices online earlier this week.
 Black Friday 2016: What time do the stores open?
The top-selling items, Adobe says, include a slew of electronics and toys, like Samsung 4K TVs, iPads, and drones. The biggest discounts were for tablets, TVs and toys.
Some of the best-selling deals on Amazon on Friday are the Instant Pot 7-in-1 Multi-functional Cooker, Hasbro's Pie Face Game and Sennheiser HD 598 Headphones.

While many stores opened on Thanksgiving this year, others held off on an early start. Mall of America suspended operations on the holiday. Only stores with exterior entrances were able to open on Thanksgiving Day.
--CNNMoney's Alison Kosik, Aaron Cooper and Sandra Gonzalez contributed to this report.
The group found that the bottom 10% of earners in developed countries saw their real incomes fall by 16.2% between 2007 and 2010. The incomes of the top 10% fell by only 4.6% over the same period.
The recovery has also produced unequal results. Between 2010 and 2014, the incomes of the bottom 10% have risen by only 1.6% compared to the 5.2% growth rate enjoyed by the highest earners.
The end result is more income inequality. The wages earned by the top 10% had recovered to pre-crisis levels by 2014, while the same year the poorest earned 14% less than they did before the crisis.
OECD data show that the U.S. is among the most unequal countries. Americans with incomes at the top 20% are earning 8.7 times more than those in the bottom 20%.
Nordic countries Iceland, Norway and Denmark have the lowest inequality among developed nations. There, the top 20% earn roughly 3.5 times more than the bottom 20%.
World leaders: We must tackle income inequality
World leaders agree that income inequality is a major problem. At the most recent G20 summit in China, the heads of the world's 20 biggest economies called for more action to make sure economic growth is inclusive.
In a separate study published on Thursday, the Institute of Fiscal Studies said that average earnings in the U.K. will not reach the pre-crisis levels before 2021.
A full recovery will be delayed further by the country's separation from the European Union.
"A 3% dip in the growth rate [for the current financial year] wouldn't surprise me," Pronab Sen, India's former chief statistician, told CNNMoney. Sen is country director for India at the International Growth Centre in London.
If that happens, India would almost certainly lose its crown to bigger rival China.
 How fast are India and China really growing?
"The impact on GDP growth is clearly going to be negative in the short run," said Thomas Rookmaaker of Fitch Ratings.
How big a hit the economy will suffer "depends to a large extent on how long the cash crunch is going to take," Rookmaaker added.
No end in sight
It doesn't show signs of ending anytime soon. According to the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), over 5 trillion rupees ($74 billion) in old cash has been sucked out of the economy since Prime Minister Narendra Modi's abrupt announcement on Nov. 8.
So far, only 1 trillion rupees ($15 billion) have been replaced by new 500 and 2,000 notes -- equivalent to just 7% of the value of the defunct cash. The new notes are too small for ATMs, and refitting the machines will take weeks.
The Indian government has given people 50 days -- until Dec. 30 -- to exchange old notes. But daily and weekly limits apply.
 5 key questions about India's cash crunch
In a country where close to 90% of transactions take place in cash, the shock will reverberate a while longer.
"Unavailability of notes and restrictions on withdrawals have made it difficult to carry out transactions, even for those who have legitimate wealth," Pranjul Bhandari, chief India economist for HSBC, said in a recent note.
Sectors such as retail, construction and real estate rely heavily on cash and contribute about 30% of GDP, according to the Institute of International Finance. It estimates that the hit to those areas of the economy could pull growth down by more than 2% over the next two quarters.
Rupee sinks to record low
The economic fallout helped push the rupee to a record low of 68.86 to the U.S. dollar on Thursday, despite reports that the RBI was selling dollars to stop the slide.
Modi is hoping the rupee note switch will reduce tax evasion and money laundering. It still appears to have solid support among Indian voters. And analysts say the long term impact, if coupled with further policy changes, could be good for the economy.
"The [negative] impact might well be mitigated once the supply of the new notes has improved," said Shilan Shah, India economist at Capital Economics.
"I think the impact over the longer term is probably going to be quite positive, given that it's a fairly strong reflection of the government's anti-corruption drive," he added.
Correction: An earlier version of this story misstated the potential negative impact to gross domestic product growth from the rupee ban.
Despite this positive news though, hunger stubbornly persists for more than 42 million Americans (including over 13 million children) -- more than the combined populations of Florida, Ohio and Wisconsin -- and for over 1.2 million individuals in New York City alone.

Additionally, at The Robin Hood Foundation, we've seen an uptick in demand at New York City's largest emergency food providers. Our research, known as the Poverty Tracker, which surveys the same New Yorkers every quarter, confirms that hunger is still a hardship for 38% of New Yorkers, 12% of whom face severe food hardship, which means a persistent shortage of food or the ability to afford food.
 14 million Americans live in extremely poor neighborhoods
Another surprising fact: nearly 15% of New Yorkers who indicated they were food insecure were also employed. This underscores the difficult challenges that the poorest New Yorkers face. Even with the continuing economic recovery, too many are struggling to survive even when they do have a job. And as the city grapples with an affordable housing crisis and rents continue to skyrocket, the rising cost of living is putting an even greater strain on low-income families.
In fact, nearly half of all New Yorkers are living at or near the poverty line and 56% of families are rent burdened, meaning more than a third of their monthly salary goes to rent. With more money being spent on rent, that leaves less and less for necessities like food.
This increase in demand comes at a particularly difficult time for emergency food providers who are severely underfunded. Many operate on shoestring budgets. In fact, in September, 50% of the city's food pantries and soup kitchens reported running out of food altogether.
Food insecurity is closely tied to income. And we know that the Supplemental Nutritional Assistance Program (SNAP) (commonly known as food stamps) is one of the most effective ways to combat hunger. Yet, nationwide SNAP participation levels are the lowest since 2010, and in New York City, participation has fallen almost 11% in the last five years.
 Wage gap between blacks and whites is worst in nearly 40 years
Most food pantries screen people for eligibility for SNAP and other important benefits. However, many who are eligible for these benefits aren't accessing them to their fullest potential. Ensuring the doors of the pantries remain open for the provision of food and to provide this key screening function is critical.
If you're going into this "giving" season asking: What can be done to keep hardworking New Yorkers and their children from going hungry? Get to know your local food pantry. (In New York, visit Feed NYC to look up the closest one to your home). Volunteer so that you can meet the clients they serve. Donate and help raise funds so that struggling food pantries and soup kitchens can purchase desperately needed food for their clients. Above all, do something.
It has never been more important to support the safety-net system in our own communities upon which so many depend.
Amanda Stern, a program officer at The Robin Hood Foundation, oversees the food portfolio. Robin Hood, the largest poverty-fighting organization in New York City, is the biggest private funder of NYC food, providing nearly $5 million a year.
"She told me she really wanted one for Christmas," said Zappa, who works in sales with a real estate firm in Phoenix, Arizona. He did a Google search and saw the buzz around Hatchimals. "I had a hunch it would be a big hit for the holidays," he said.
The next day, Zappa and his brother Stan drove to six nearby Barnes & Noble (BKS) stores, spent $5,000 (put on a credit card) and bought every Hatchimal toy in each store. (They stockpiled 100 of them.)
 14 coolest toys for the holidays
Fast forward to November and retailers are already selling out of Hatchimals a month before Christmas.
"We took a big risk with our money and we were right," said Mike. So far, they've sold 30 from their Hatchimals stash on eBay (EBAY) and have recouped their entire investment.
They list the start price on eBay at $60 (the toy's actual price) and let the market take over. "People are bidding as high as $190 to $200 for these," said Mike. "The market value will only go up closer to Christmas."
This all could have gone horribly wrong, too. "At the end of the day, $5,000 is a lot of money," said Mike, who's a single father of two. "We were hoping and praying that this was going to be the next big toy."
 4 shopping apps for finding the best deals
Their family and friends tried to dissuade them initially.
"Three weeks ago there wasn't one person we knew who thought this was a great idea," said Stan, who runs his own pest control business in Phoenix. "Even our father called us idiots. Now they can't believe it."
They've been spreading the word about their stash on social media. The brothers unsurprisingly have gotten backlash from frustrated parents having a hard time scoring a Hatchimal in stores.
"We were expecting this," said Mike. "But we also took a risk. We didn't break any laws. And we aren't dictating how the market is pricing the toys on eBay. What we are doing is capitalism at its best."
 Now you can design your own ugly sweater
While Stan has already used some of the money to invest in a new sofa, Mike said the extra money gives him breathing room over the holidays
"This is going to help my kids have a good Christmas," he said. Will they try this again next year?
"Chances are slim to none," said Mike. "You don't see something like this happen often."
Ivanka Trump is on her father's White House transition team and helped craft his policy on child care and maternity leave. She also sat in on Donald Trump's meeting with Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, his first with a foreign head of state as president-elect.
"As a private citizen, with full awareness of her heightened visibility, she will broaden her efforts to take a stance on issues of critical importance to American women and families," the post said.
Meanwhile, the company -- named simply Ivanka Trump -- will keep working to "inspire and empower women to create the lives they want to live."
As Donald Trump's presidential campaign alienated many women, Ivanka Trump's company faced a backlash from some of the women who make up its customer base.
An online campaign before the election called on shoppers to boycott all the family's products, including Ivanka Trump's clothing, shoe and jewelry lines. The #GrabYourWallet movement began after tape surfaced of Donald Trump boasting about groping women.
And Ivanka Trump's company drew criticism for promoting a $10,000 bracelet she wore on "60 Minutes" during the family's first interview after Election Day.
 Ivanka Trump company promotes $10,000 bracelet worn on '60 Minutes'
The company acknowledged Wednesday it has received complaints.
"We've been listening to the feedback we've received, both positive and not, and we've been taking it into consideration as we plan for the future. Keep the comments coming," it said.
This is now my personal feed. Follow @IvankaTrumpHQ to keep up with #TeamIvanka and the content we're creating: https://t.co/gb7nqdmLEK pic.twitter.com/GH4XnjzPyl
Ivanka Trump has spent nearly a decade building a fashion and retail empire. While revenue figures aren't available -- the company is private -- her products are stocked at more than 800 retailers, including Nordstrom, (JWN) Macy's (M) and Amazon (AMZN, Tech30).
The company also announced it had created separate accounts on Instagram, Facebook and Twitter, named @IvankaTrumpHQ. Ivanka Trump will keep @IvankaTrump for her personal feed.
--CNNMoney's Jill Disis contributed to this report.
So why are real estate investment trusts, or REITs as they are commonly known, struggling?
REITs pay big dividends. And with bond yields surging since the election, partly due to expectations that Trump will need to rack up debt to make his $1 trillion infrastructure spending plans a reality, high yielding stocks like REITs are no longer attractive.
Investors are betting REITs and other big dividend payers will be less attractive in an environment where bond rates are going up. That's why other big dividend payers, most notably utilities and consumer staples companies, have also lagged the market lately.
But is the market getting this wrong?
 Trump's family plan to cut business conflicts falls short
Yes, many investors have flocked to REITs solely for their dividends. But the market may be underestimating the possibility that Trump will look to take care of his own, so to speak.
Of course, Trump will need to be extra careful to avoid the appearance of any conflicts of interest. It doesn't help that his daughter Ivanka is married to real estate developer Jared Kushner. And both are on his transition team.
Trump has already faced criticism about what he plans to do with his massive real estate holdings. Some think Trump should sell his investments outright, but he is planning to place them in a trust to be controlled by his adult children.
These issues aside, REITs should benefit from Trump stimulus.
Karin Ford, senior real estate analyst for MUFG Securities Americas, met with several REIT executives at an industry conference in Phoenix just after the election. In a report to clients, she noted that real estate leaders were upbeat.
"REIT managements believe that a Trump presidency will be positive for fundamentals. They expect commercial real estate to benefit from rising business confidence, lower tax rates, and fiscal stimulus," Ford wrote.
Ford noted that executives at Camden Property Trust (CPT) were hopeful that Trump's plans will lead to more job growth, which should lead to higher demand for apartments.
 Trump's Washington hotel could become ethical headache
And executives at Alexandria Real Estate (ARE), a REIT that owns research labs used by drug and biotech companies, told Ford that their tenants should thrive under Trump since they believe that "drug pricing restrictions are not high on his agenda."
Managers at another healthcare REIT, Healthcare Trust of America (HTA), also told Ford they weren't worried about Trump unwinding the Affordable Care Act, or Obamacare.
"We even heard cautious optimism from a few healthcare REITs, the managements of which believe that changes to Obamacare may not be that harmful to their business," she wrote.
Ford noted that the Healthcare Trust of America executives said "lower-cost, outpatient trends are here to stay and that accelerating economic activity could boost medical office rent growth."
But what about other potential headwinds for REITs? Won't inflation hurt the sector? Not necessarily.
 Trump says selling his real estate holdings will be a tough task
Mitch Wasterlain, founder of CAPFUNDR, an investment firm focusing on real estate funds, said in a report after the election that inflation could lead to more pricing power for real estate companies. They'll be able to demand higher rents.
"Historically, real estate has done well in high interest rate, inflationary environments," Wasterlain wrote.
But the worst may be over given that REITs have been beaten up so much in the past few months due to fears that stimulus by either Trump or Clinton would drive up interest rates.
The Real Estate Select SPDR ETF has tumbled more than 10% since it was separated from S&P's financial sector and became its own sector in September.
"With the pullback in REITs, valuations are now attractive, as fundamentals remain solid and balance sheets are as strong as they have ever been," said William Lynch, director of investments at Hinsdale Associates, in a report.
So real estate may still wind up being a good investment during Trump's tenure.
Now Trump just needs to figure out what he'll do with all his real estate holdings to avoid any conflicts of interest.
Here is a list of the "other" markets that are on a bull run:

 Trump market euphoria forgets scary campaign promises
While each stock market is unique, there are some key factors that are contributing to the broad global rally:
Oil
Crude prices plunged to $26 per barrel in February, leading to a panic that dragged global indexes down. Plummeting prices hurt major oil companies, forced dozens of U.S. shale producers into bankruptcy and led to worries about banks that provide loans to the industry.
But oil prices have nearly doubled in recent months to $48 per barrel. Reassured investors have pushed markets higher, especially in major oil-producing nations such as Russia and Norway.

China
Concerns about China's economy contributed to the early 2016 sell-off and caused a major crash in Chinese shares. Now the country's main stock markets are bouncing back as domestic investors shift their money out of real estate and back into stocks.
Chinese government spending on infrastructure projects and lending by state banks have also helped stocks.
"China is driving growth again," said Ankit Gheedia, an equity strategist at BNP Paribas, who noted that Chinese spending is also boosting global commodity prices.
Iron ore prices in particular have roughly doubled since the start of the year. That's helped Australia's resource-dependent market rally by 43% since February.
President-elect Trump
Then there's the U.S. election. A major stock market rally in the U.S. has been sparked by hopes that President-elect Donald Trump will follow through on promises to slash taxes, roll back regulation and boost infrastructure.
His plan for $1 trillion in additional infrastructure investment has also supported commodity prices.
"The optimism around commodity prices has fueled the rally in markets such as Australia, Brazil and Canada," noted Naeem Aslam, chief market analyst at Think Forex.
Others had another message: We'll move on without you and strike alliances with other nations.
"Another agreement can take its place, but not with U.S. participation," Peru President Pablo Pedro Kuczynski told Russia's state-run news outlet RT on Nov. 11. "It would include China, and Russia as well."
Trade is a top priority for many world leaders, especially Kuczynski. Last weekend, he hosted the APEC conference, a trade summit that drew President Obama and China's President Xi Jingping, along with leaders from Latin America and the Asia Pacific.
A day after APEC ended, Trump announced he would withdraw from TPP the day he arrives at the White House. That's not going over well with the 21 world leaders of APEC.
 TPP is 'meaningless' after Trump pulls the plug
"We reaffirm our commitment to keep our markets open and to fight against all forms of protectionism," the leaders said in a joint statement.
As America under a new leader backpedals on doing business with other nations, China and Russia appear poised to fill the gap. China is already pushing its own trade deal known as the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP). It includes many countries, such as Japan and Australia, that would have been in TPP.
If RCEP succeeds, China would be in a stronger position to lead a bigger free trade area in the future. Already in Asia, some countries, like the Philippines, are aligning themselves with China.
Chinese officials are also welcoming Latin American nations to RCEP, a clear pick up from the rubble of TPP.
And it makes sense. China and even Russia are already vying to take away American influence from Latin America, a region once considered the U.S.' backyard according to experts.
China and Russia have made major investments in Latin America in recent years.
 China is ready to pounce on global trade
China's state banks have poured $120 billion in investments into Latin America since 2005, according to the Inter-American Dialogue, a think tank in Washington. Since 2008, Russia has sent military arms to Venezuela, Brazil and Bolivia, among other nations, while cutting an oil exploration deal with Mexico, according to R. Evan Ellis, a professor of Latin American studies at the U.S. Army War College.
Even though China's growing ties to Latin America have been rocky at times, Trump's withdrawal from TPP may smooth that out.
The path ahead remains unclear but the rest of TPP nations are willing to strengthen trade ties without America.
"Concrete damage to U.S. interests has already been done," Eric Farnsworth, vice president at Council of the Americas, said referring to two Asia-focused trade agreements: the RCEP and the Free Trade Area of the Asia-Pacific (FTAAP), another potential trade deal that would include nations in Latin America, southeast Asia and Australia.
"The U.S. retreat on TPP has breathed immediate life back into" those deals, says Farnsworth, who attended the APEC meet in Lima, Peru.
--Jethro Mullen contributed reporting to this article
Investors are optimistic that the worst is over for the hard-hit farming industry, which is in a recession due to low prices worldwide for most major agricultural commodities.
Deere's sales of farm equipment actually fell 5% during the quarter, but the company believes the slide will slow next year.
That outlook helped lift shares of rivals CNH Industrial (CNHI) and AGCO (AGCO) Wednesday morning as well. Both stocks were up about 4%.
Deere added that its construction equipment business, which also reported a drop in sales this year, should rebound and post slight levels of growth next year.
 CEO who voted for Trump expects construction boom
Shares of Deere are actually up more than 30% this year despite sluggish sales. And the stock had picked up steam in the past two weeks before its earnings report, rising more than 3% since Election Day.
That rally is likely due to Trump's victory. Trump has promised to make infrastructure spending a major priority of his administration.
Construction equipment giant Caterpillar (CAT) has surged as a result, as have shares of companies like U.S. Steel (X) and U.S.. Concrete (USCR).
Could Deere benefit from Trump's infrastructure plans? Perhaps. Trump even mentioned Deere by name in a speech on Super Tuesday back in March. Trump said he loves equipment from Deere and Caterpillar.
Those comments were about the wall that Trump talked about building on the border of Mexico on the campaign trail.
 Mexico's former president says global infrastructure needs an upgrade
Trump has backtracked from some of those comments since he was elected. And it's not really clear if Deere would even be a part of any plan to build such a wall.
A bigger concern for Deere and other multinational companies is Trump's tough talk about a metaphorical wall if you will by imposing steep tariffs on Mexico, China and other trade partners and ripping up the NAFTA trade agreement.
That could hurt Deere if other countries retaliate. Deere generates nearly 40% of its sales from outside of the United States, with a big bulk of the international revenue coming from China, Canada and Japan.
 Trump win is boost for infrastructure spending
With that in mind, Deere CEO Samuel Allen told CNBC in April that he was concerned by some of Trump's trade talk.
"We're all connected, and we're going to have to get some long-lasting polices that reinforce the need, and ... stimulate the growth in manufacturing," he said.
But Allen was also a bit coy when asked directly if he would help Trump build a wall on the border with Mexico.
"I would put it this way. If you're asking would I help, the answer is no. If the government wants to buy John Deere equipment, we'd love to have that happen," he said.
Trump is about to take over the executive branch of government and he clearly wants to spend on construction equipment.
Wall Street seems to betting that Allen is going to be getting a few calls from Trump over the next few months.
But it's worth noting that the most famous investor of all seems to have soured on Deere a bit.
Warren Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway (BRKB) sold some of its Deere stake in the third quarter. It's the second quarter in a row that Berkshire has dumped some of its Deere holdings.
"This could be colossal," said James Macsween, managing director of 60-year-old haggis business Macsween.
Scots have been battling the import ban since 1971, when the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) ruled that "livestock lungs shall not be saved for use as human food."
Then in 1997, the U.S. banned imports of British lamb following the announcement of a probable link between Variant Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (vCJD) and bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE) -- the human and cow forms of mad cow disease. That presented even more obstacles for exporting traditional haggis ingredients into the U.S.
Watch this: The vodka distilled in Scotland
After years of negotiation, though, the Scottish government recently said that a "significant milestone" had been reached with U.S. authorities. While discussions continue, it said it was "hopeful that the restrictions on the export of lamb and haggis will be lifted during the first half of next year."
The U.S. Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service recently issued a proposed rule which would allow entry of sheep products, but there is not a date for when the rule would come into effect.
While the ban on livestock lungs is likely to remain in place, the ban on British lamb may be lifted, according to the U.S. agency, and haggis exporters -- like Scottish meat brand Simon Howie the Scottish Butcher -- are already preparing to replace the lungs in their traditional recipes so they can break into the American market.

Third-generation family company Macsween says it will need to change its recipe, but its American haggis will taste much like its Scottish counterpart. "It'll be exactly the same, if not better," said James Macsween. "People aren't going to say 'I don't like that, it's too different.'"
It's estimated there are 5.3 million Scottish-Americans living in the U.S. Even if those families only eat haggis once a year for Burns Night (a celebration of the life of Scottish poet Robert Burns), "it's an export market worth exploiting." Macsween said.
Between 2010 and 2015, the UK exported $5.92 million worth of haggis -- significantly higher than previous years.
For Macsween, England is its biggest market, accounting for more than half of its haggis sales. The company also exports to fellow European countries.
"We've not ventured any further than Europe because we've been so busy feeding the domestic market," said Macsween. But he sees the potential of the U.S. market as too good to miss.
The company is working to find out what American regulatory standards will be so it can prepare to export haggis to the U.S., Macsween said.
Not only would a change in U.S. meat import laws be great for haggis, said Macsween, the ability to export lamb to American stores would be valuable for Scotland as a whole.
And while haggis may not sound like the most appealing food, Macsween said he was on a mission to convince everyone the dish isn't all about guts.
"There's no guts! It may be put into a piece of intestines like a sausage casing, but haggis is a really healthy, fulfilling and satisfying meat dish," he said. "It's unlike anything in the world."
The disparities make sense considering the vast racial wealth gap in the U.S. White families, on average, tend to have 13 times more wealth than black and Latino families, according to the Pew Research Center.
Blacks and Latinos also tend to be paid less than whites and they are also more likely to have higher rates of unemployment than whites do. They are also more likely to live below the poverty line than whites.
One study by the Economic Policy Institute showed that black employees with more experience and education were still paid less than their white counterparts. Another study by the Corporation for Economic Development and the Institute for Policy Studies said if current trends persist, it would take 228 years for black families and 84 years for Latino families to accumulate the same amount of wealth as whites.
 Blacks will take hundreds of years to catch up to white wealth
Yet, the focus remains on the problems of white working class Americans.
"In general there is a tendency to not talk about blacks as workers. This hurts the whole dialogue," said William Spriggs, chief economist for the AFL-CIO and an economics professor at Howard University. Instead, black and brown workers are considered "underclass" as opposed to working class and "lazy" instead of hardworking, said Spriggs. And yet, they too have worn overalls and lost factory jobs.
"The notion of the white working class implicitly embodies a view of white privilege," said Spriggs, "It implies that things are supposed to be different for them, that they aren't the same, that they aren't going to face the same pressures."
There is no official definition of the working class. Some define it by education level or job sector, others by income. John Hudak, a senior fellow in governance studies at the Brookings Institution calls these voters "economically marginalized" because they often fall somewhere between the poor and the middle class.
"The realities of race in our society and in our economy benefit white Americans over communities of color," Hudak said.
President-elect Donald Trump promised to address some of the economic issues facing black voters with his New Deal for Black America, which he released in October. The ten-point plan includes a series of economic proposals that some experts say fall short of their intended goal.
In it, Trump calls for tax reforms including lowering the business tax from 35% to 15% and imposing a "massive" middle class tax cut and child care tax deductions.
Assuming tax cuts will help communities of color is "foolish," said Hudak. "We didn't see massive employment creation in the 2000s following those tax cuts," Hudak said. "What we did see is massive wealth accumulation of the top earning of Americans, but we didn't see a trickle down effect."
 Civil rights groups biggest fears about a President Trump
Reverend Starsky Wilson, the president and chief executive of the Deaconess Foundation, a non-profit serving the children of St. Louis and a member of the Ferguson Commission, said a better way to spur economic growth would be through raising the minimum wage to $15 an hour. "Those aren't asset building strategies, those aren't income building strategies," Starsky said of the Trump's tax plan.
According to 2015 data from the Bureau of Labor statistics, 3% of white, Asian and Latino workers earned the federal minimum wage or less, compared to 4% of black workers.
Trump also called for a "tax holiday for inner city investment," which Melina Abdullah, a professor of Pan-African Studies at California State University, Los Angeles and an organizer for the Los Angeles Black Lives Matter chapter, called "code for gentrification." She said such tax holidays allow investors to build amenities that typically attract mostly wealthier, white residents, thereby pushing poorer, working class people of color further away from city centers.
In his plan, Trump also calls for financial reforms to expand credit and support new job creation, including making it easier for African-Americans to get credit to start businesses.
"Credit is debt," said Starsky. "The community is talking about building assets, you're talking about building more debt. Who benefits when you offer more credit? The banks. We've seen that story before," said Starsky, referring to the housing boom when blacks and Latinos were the prime targets of subprime loans.
Trump also called for new investments in infrastructure as a way to create jobs, something that Democrats have had on their agenda.
Hudak said Trump's proposal was "a very good idea that would have meaningful effects in both white and non-white communities," but he was concerned about the emphasis on public and private partnerships to achieve that goal. "Roads are not private, ports are not private," Hudak said. "I don't know if the President-elect would use tax incentives in order for private companies to take over public infrastructure."
 The next battle for Black Lives Matter: Economic justice
Abdullah was also concerned about this point. "Any time we see the term public-private partnership we should wake up. It means diverting public dollars to private corporations," she said.
Trump also proposed canceling "all wasteful climate change spending from Obama-Clinton, including all global warming payments to the United Nations," and using the estimated savings of $100 billion over 8 years to fund urban infrastructure.
"If you were interested in the water systems of the inner city you wouldn't be talking about dismantling the EPA," said Starsky of the Ferguson Commission. "The rebuilding of infrastructure is the responsibility of government."
Representatives for Trump did not return requests seeking comment.
Even Wells Fargo (WFC), just two months removed from its fake account scandal, is up 14% since Trump defeated Hillary Clinton.
The post-election bank euphoria suggests that investors have forgotten, or are willing to overlook, Trump's anti-Wall Street stance and populist tone on the campaign trail.
Few seem to recall that Trump advocated for breaking up big banks by reinstating the Depression era law Glass-Steagall.
And the President-elect has named as his top strategist Steve Bannon, a Wall Street critic, who has blamed the 2008 global financial crisis on greedy bankers. Bannon also took issue with the fact that none of the bank execs faced criminal charges.
"There is much more risk to the biggest banks than the market appears to appreciate," Jaret Seiberg, a Cowen & Co. analyst, wrote in a recent note.
 Trump market euphoria forgets scary campaign promises
Seiberg urged "caution" for those who assume Trump will be a friend to big banks. In fact, he said some reforms could help regional banks at the expense of mega banks.
"It remains unclear if the Trump administration will turn pro-big bank...or revert to its campaign stance of being anti-Wall Street," Seiberg wrote.
Wall Street seems to be banking on Trump's ability and willingness to repeal the Dodd-Frank financial overhaul. Doing that would relieve banks of rising regulatory burdens.
But Chuck Schumer, the incoming Senate minority leader, said on NBC's Meet the Press on Sunday that he's got the votes to block any attempt to repeal or roll back Dodd-Frank.
Others wonder if Trump wants to follow through on this promise, pointing to how unpopular it would be with the Rust Belt voters of Ohio and Pennsylvania who helped fuel the billionaire's rise.
"They didn't vote for Trump because he was going to kickstart the CDO market," Michael Block, chief market strategist at Rhino Trading, wrote in a recent note, referring to complex Wall Street securities that played a role in the financial crisis.
"They voted for him for quite the opposite reasons, frankly. How soon we forget," Block wrote.
 JPMorgan fined for hiring kids of China's elite
James Fotheringham, analyst at BMO Capital Markets, warned investors to "curb your enthusiasm" about bank stocks.
Fotheringham does believe big banks will face less regulation due to Trump's victory, but he warns in a report that "Trump's election promise to 'repeal Dodd-Frank' will prove an empty one."
BMO also warns that alternatives to Dodd-Frank could hurt big banks. For instance, Jeb Hensarling, chairman of the powerful House Financial Services Committee, has championed the Financial Choice Act. The legislation would be a "negative" for big banks because it would encourage them to bulk up on lots more capital than they currently have.
Targets in Hensarling's legislation suggest "significant capital shortfalls" for JPMorgan, Wells Fargo, Bank of America, Citigroup, Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley.
Sign up for CNNMoney's morning market newsletter: Before The Bell
The biggest wildcard of all would be if Trump carried out his campaign promise to bring back Glass-Steagall, the Great Depression-era law that bans banks from serving both Wall Street and Main Street. Such legislation, which the GOP included in its official platform at Trump's urging, would force mega banks like JPMorgan and Citi to shrink themselves.
The cries to shrink big banks may only grow louder after a new Financial Stability Board report this week concluded that Citi (C), Wells Fargo and Bank of America all pose a greater risk to the financial system than they did last year.
"Critics will argue this proves Dodd-Frank did not end too big to fail," Seiberg wrote. He added that it will fuel support for structural changes such as restoring the Glass-Steagall separation between commercial banking and trading.
Bannon, Trump's chief strategist and one of the architects of his election upset, appears to be in favor of just that.
Bannon told Buzzfeed two years ago, "You really need to go back and make banks do what they do: Commercial banks lend money, and investment banks invest in entrepreneurs and to get away from this trading."
Online check-in begins 24 hours before departure, and most airlines recommend you get to the airport no less than two hours before your scheduled departure. Bottom line: The more time you have, the more time to adjust if your plans are disrupted.
#TravelTip Increased passenger traffic projected for #LGA during the #thanksgiving travel period. Leave extra time. https://t.co/p3L8mzM77O pic.twitter.com/6CtwRxbeAS
The good news is that your chances of arriving on time are better than ever. According to the Department of Transportation, airlines canceled 0.3% of scheduled domestic flights in September, the lowest rate since 1995.
2. Know your rights on overbooking
U.S. airlines have been steadily increasing capacity, but that doesn't mean your flight won't be overbooked and you may get bumped. Department of Transportation has outlined the rules that airlines have to follow when bumping passengers. Know your rights as a traveler.
3. What happens if your plans are disrupted
Download your airline's app on your phone or tablet. Many will help you find alternate flights and rebookings. Ultimately you can skip waiting in line at the airport or hanging on hold over the phone.
You can call in outside help, too. Cranky Concierge, a service run by travel expert and airline blogger Brett Snyder, can monitor your travels, watching for delays and prepare alternate flight options.
4. Charge your batteries
Many airlines now offer in-seat power, but make sure your devices are charged before you fly. And if you want to be an airport superhero, pack a power strip.
Many older aircraft have also gotten new seats with power and in-flight entertainment screens.
5. Keep entertained
Wifi internet access is now available on most U.S. mainline flights for an added fee and free on airlines like JetBlue Airways (JBLU). While internet may cost you, airlines like American (AAL), Southwest (LUV), Delta (DAL) and United offer on-board servers that stream content to your devices for free.
You can typically get access to free -- or paid -- streaming content with an airline's app. Access to streaming services on airlines like American and Alaska Airlines are offered through the Gogo In-Flight Entertainment App.
If all else fails, raise that window shade and enjoy the view. Or strike up a conversation with your seatmate, just don't talk about politics.
6. Be good to each other
I'll leave you with this. Be good to your fellow travelers, airline and airport staff. While they, too, may be grumpy from a constant onslaught of travel madness, a smile goes a long, long way.
Safe travels.
Treasury chief Philip Hammond said growth would suffer because of greater uncertainty and higher inflation resulting from the drop in the value of the pound. Investment and consumer demand are also expected to weaken.
In total, potential growth over the next five years will be 2.4% lower than if voters had chosen to remain in the EU.

Brexit scorecard: How the U.K. economy is faring
The forecasts were announced Wednesday as part of the government's first set of spending and tax plans since the June Brexit vote. They assume that the U.K. will leave the EU by April 2019, migration controls will tighten and trade growth will slow.
Hammond also announced plans to hike the minimum wage, invest £1.4 billion ($1.7 billion) in new housing and prohibit real estate agents from charging renters certain fees.
The government said it would create a £23 billion fund to invest in innovation and infrastructure over the next five years.
But with the goal of a balanced budget having already been abandoned, Hammond was constrained by a growing gap between government revenue and spending.
"This is clearly a fragile situation," said Fiona Cincotta, a market analyst at City Index. "The level of spending is set to create a much bigger black hole than was previously considered."
There were some bright spots: Hammond said employment is expected to remain robust with 500,000 new jobs being added in the coming years, for example.
The vote to exit the EU has slammed the pound. The currency has slumped 17% against the dollar since June 23.
 Trump market euphoria forgets scary campaign promises
IndyMac was one of the nation's a leading subprime home loan lenders before it failed in July 2008. Mnuchin was not involved in making the risky loans that caused the bank to collapse. But his March 2009 purchase of IndyMac, which he renamed OneWest, made him and his fellow investors very, very wealthy. Mnuchin was lead investor of the group.
All together they put up $1.55 billion, according to the FDIC -- pennies on the dollar for the assets being acquired. Mnuchin eventually sold it for more than twice that amount in 2015. The fact that the FDIC agreed to cover the overwhelming majority of IndyMac's losses on bad loans when Mnunchin bought it helped make the bank very profitable during his ownership.
Also during his tenure, OneWest was charged by federal regulators with filing false documents during foreclosures. Employees also failed to make sure they had the correct loan documentation before the bank seized a home. The scandal, which became known as robo-signing, reached many other major backs as well. OneWest eventually admitted its wrongdoing in a consent decree with regulators.
As the housing market stabilized and rebounded, the bank grew to one of the largest in southern California, partly through the purchase of other smaller, failed banks. In 2015, CIT Group bought the bank for $3.4 billion in cash and stock. CIT itself received a government bailout worth $2.3 billion in 2008, and avoided repaying taxpayers when it filed for bankruptcy a year later.
 Businessman Wilbur Ross is a leading candidate for commerce
In addition, two fair housing groups in California recently filed new complaints with Department of Housing and Urban Development just this month accusing the bank, now known as CIT Bank, of discriminating against minority home buyers and neighborhoods.
One group charges that in 2014 and 2015, OneWest offered just two mortgage loans to African American borrowers in the area reviewed by the groups. The complaint also claims that the bank "has sited and maintained branches in a way that avoids neighborhoods of color and minority census tracts." Finally, it charges that foreclosed homes owned by the bank in minority neighborhoods were in a much greater state of disrepair compared to the foreclosures it owned in white neighborhoods.
CIT told CNNMoney that it "is committed to fair lending and works hard to meet the credit needs of all communities and neighborhoods we serve." Mnuchin could not be reached for comment.
--CNNMoney's Danielle Wiener-Bronner contributed to this story.
The Trump rally has been sparked by hopes that the President-elect will follow through on promises to slash taxes, roll back regulation and rebuild infrastructure. However, some of his campaign promises frighten investors, including talk about tearing up the NAFTA free trade agreement and slapping big tariffs on Chinese products.
In Europe, most of the main stock markets posted minor gains in early trading.
Asian markets ended the day with mixed results. Japanese markets were closed for a holiday.
Before the Bell newsletter: Key market news. In your inbox. Subscribe now!
2. Fed in focus: Federal Reserve chair Janet Yellen will be the center of attention at 2 p.m. ET when the central bank releases minutes from its October policy-setting meeting.
Economists and traders will be looking for more hints that a December interest rate hike is in the cards. Yellen said last week that the Fed could raise interest rates "relatively soon."
The Fed last raised its key interest rate in December 2015.
3. U.K. makes a move: The U.K. government's top finance official -- Chancellor Philip Hammond -- is set to make his first major budget announcements following the Brexit referendum in June.
Forecasts for the economy and government finances are expected to be downbeat.
Hammond is set to outline plans to hike the national minimum wage starting in April.
He will also move to prohibit real estate agents from charging excessive upfront fees on renters. Shares in the market-leading real estate agent group Foxtons plunged by as much as 13% on Wednesday.
4. Earnings and economics: Farming machinery manufacturer Deere & Co (DE) is among the key companies reporting earnings before the opening bell.
The Census Bureau is releasing data about durable goods orders from October at 8:30 a.m. ET and then publishing data on new home sales from October at 10 a.m.
Crude oil and natural gas inventory data will also be published at 10:30 a.m. and 12 p.m., respectively.
Download CNN MoneyStream for up-to-the-minute market data and news
5. Coming this week: Wednesday - U.K. Autumn Statement from Chancellor Philip Hammond; Disney's 'Moana' released Thursday - Thanksgiving (U.S. market closed)  Friday - Black Friday
The key data points were not pretty. Economic growth will slow to just 1.4% in 2017, the weakest pace since 2009. And the government will borrow an extra 58.7 billion pounds ($72.6 billion) over five years because of Brexit.
Here's a broad overview of where the U.K. stands:
Down goes the pound
The pound plunged to levels not seen in three decades following the Brexit vote on June 23. The currency has lost 17% of its value against the dollar and weakened 11% against the euro.
The pound's slump is boosting British exporters, but it's also hurting consumers at home. The price on everything from chocolate bars to imported wine and iPhones has risen by as much as 15%.
The Bank of England expects inflation to hit 2% next year and 2.75% in 2018. That's up from 1% in September and 0.5% in June.
Economists have warned that wages are unlikely to grow quickly enough to cover the rising prices.
 U.K. jacks up minimum wage to $9.30

Investment stalls
A third of British businesses have already delayed or canceled investments, putting at risk projects worth an estimated £65.5 billion ($82 billion), according to a survey commissioned by Hitachi Capital and the Centre for Economic and Business Research.
Meanwhile, a separate survey showed 76% of U.K. CEOs have considered moving their company headquarters or parts of their business out of the country. International firms that use Britain as a springboard for their European business are particularly nervous.
 Investors see danger in U.K.'s plan for Brexit
But others including Facebook (FB, Tech30) and Google (GOOGL, Tech30) say they will stay in the U.K. and even hire more workers. Japanese automaker Nissan (NSANF) recommitted itself to Britain after getting private reassurances from the government.
 Brexit exodus? Most big companies have thought about relocating
The wheels haven't fallen off -- yet
Despite the collapsing pound, the U.K. economy appears to be holding up fairly well. Consumer spending is stable, factory output is rising and the economy grew at a better-than-expected 2.3% in the third quarter.
But analysts say that's because nothing has changed yet.
Britain has voted to exit the EU, but its companies still have access to European markets. Banks still enjoy "passporting rights" that allow them to do business in Europe, and firms can still easily hire European workers.

Uncertainty in spades
There are still very few details about the kind of EU exit the government wants to negotiate.
Prime Minister Theresa May has so far limited her statements to saying she wants "the best possible" and a "bespoke" deal for the U.K.
 Court ruling throws Brexit process into doubt
Even the timing is unclear. May wants to start the formal withdrawal process by the end of March. But her schedule was thrown into doubt after a court ruled that parliament must be given a say in the Brexit process.
The government has appealed the ruling, and a Supreme Court verdict is expected in early January.
Meanwhile, public support for EU is ... up?
Do Britons have a case of buyer's remorse? A new opinion poll shows that 56% of Brits support the EU now, up from just 49% in March. Almost 52% voted against the EU in the June referendum.
The survey, conducted by The Bertelsmann Foundation, shows support for the bloc is growing across its six biggest member states.
"The looming Brexit seems to have been the best advertisement for the EU," said Aart De Geus, chairman and CEO of the Bertelsmann Foundation.
Brits have also become much more pessimistic since July about the long-term impact of Brexit on the economy. Over 49% consider the outlook for the next 10 years to have worsened due to the Brexit vote, while 31% think prospects have improved, according to a survey by Markit.
For some, Obamacare meant that they could get medical care that literally kept them alive. They had cancer, diabetes, depression or other conditions that left them uninsurable prior to health care reform.
 Obamacare under President Trump: What happens next?
Others took advantage of the Obamacare provision that let them keep their children on their health insurance plans until the kids turned 26. They feared their sons and daughters would be left uninsured or struggling to pay high premiums if they couldn't remain on their plans.
And still others said that Obamacare allowed them to become entrepreneurs or retire early while maintaining coverage for themselves and their families.
All were left wondering what President-elect Donald Trump and Republicans in Congress have in store. While they've heard a lot about the incoming administration's plans for "repeal," they don't know much about Trump's plans for "replace."
Take Barbara Boros, a 58-year old graphic designer who hasn't been able to find full-time work for several years. Having Obamacare meant she could see the doctors and get the tests she needed to keep her kidney disease in check. She pays less than $100 a month, after subsidies, far cheaper than the individual plan she bought after losing her job in 2011. That prior plan drained her savings, and she would have been forced to go without coverage if Obamacare were not enacted.
Boros' condition has now worsened, and she is expecting to have a kidney transplant in December. Without Obamacare, the Santa Barbara, California, resident fears she won't have insurance to get the follow-up care she needs.
"Obamacare saved my life without a doubt," she said. "I'm concerned about coverage after the transplant. It will be important to keep being monitored and be able to take any medication necessary to keep me alive."
 Obamacare sign-ups surge after Trump's election
Obamacare is equally as important to John Williams, a 39-year-old attorney with his own criminal defense and civil rights firm in New Orleans. Williams has multiple sclerosis and was uninsured for a time before Obamacare was passed because of his pre-existing condition.

Thanks to Obamacare, which costs him $250 a month, he is able to see his neurologist, get MRIs and take medication that costs $4,000 a month to keep his condition under control. What's more, he can remain at his private practice, which he says allows him to contribute to society in the best way he sees fit.
If Obamacare is repealed, Williams worries he'll have to dismantle his own four-year-old business and join a firm so he can get coverage.
 Obamacare architect: Replacing it won't be easy
"It's hard to organize my future if I can't plan how to get treatment for my disease," said Williams. "Health care is one thing I can't do without."
Even those who aren't sick depend on Obamacare.
For Ben Irwin, Obamacare has allowed him to take a job that he describes as "a life's calling." After he lost his job at a religious publishing firm in 2015, he took a job at a small nonprofit organization that provides food and water to refugees in Iraq and Syria. He couldn't have done this without Obamacare because he would have had to find work at a larger firm that would provide health insurance for him and his family. Now, they are covered by a plan that costs $350 a month.
"It seems cruel that people like me have to choose between doing constructive good in the world and providing health care for my family," said Irwin, 39, of Grand Rapids, Michigan.
Here's a look at five of the business executives advising Trump's transition:
Steve Bannon
Bannon, a former Goldman Sachs investment banker, has spent years as a conservative media executive.
He took leave from his position as chairman of the right wing Breitbart News in August to become the CEO of the Trump campaign.
During Bannon's tenure at Breitbart, the website advocated for Trump's populist, nationalist policy positions and touted conspiracies theories about Democrat Hillary Clinton's health.
A Bloomberg profile of Bannon, 62, last year described Breitbart as a "crusading right-wing populist website that's a lineal descendant of the Drudge Report (its late founder, Andrew Breitbart, spent years apprenticing with Matt Drudge) and a haven for people who think Fox News is too polite and restrained."
 Steve Bannon: The 'street fighter' who's now running Trump's campaign
Jared Kushner
Kushner. 35, is a real estate developer and publisher who is married to Trump's daughter, Ivanka. He's amassed billions of dollars in properties within the New York real estate market.
Kushner attracted attention this summer as a key political adviser to Trump's campaign. A source told CNN he was "intimately involved" with the decision to fire campaign manager Corey Lewandowski, who he and Trump's children repeatedly butted heads with.
Trump's son-in-law also owns the New York Observer, a weekly publication that ended its print edition Friday.
Steven Mnuchin
Mnuchin, 54, is a campaign fundraiser and ex-banker who has contributed to Republicans and Democratic candidates, including Hillary Clinton's Senate campaigns and 2008 presidential run.
The Trump campaign's finance chairman was formerly a partner at Goldman Sachs, working for the firm for 17 years until 2002. He reportedly earned $46 million.
Mnuchin and his brother are among those who profited from Bernie Madoff's ponzi scheme. They successfully fought off a court challenge to reclaim profits from the illegal scheme to help compensate victims of the scam.
He now works as a Hollywood producer, financing films like "Suicide Squad," "American Sniper" and "The Lego Movie."
Anthony Scaramucci
Scaramucci, 52, is a hedge-fund executive who joined Trump's national finance committee during the campaign.
Scaramucci founded and co-manages SkyBridge Capital, the firm that hosts a large, biannual investment conference called SkyBridge Alternatives, or SALT.
He previously supported former GOP presidential candidates Jeb Bush and Scott Walker.

Peter Thiel
Thiel, a PayPal cofounder and Facebook board member, broke from the rest of Silicon Valley by endorsing Trump during his campaign.
Thiel, who spoke at the Republican National Convention, also pledged to donate $1.25 million to elect Trump in the final weeks of the campaign when the candidate was under fire for multiple allegations of sexual assault.
 Silicon Valley wrestles with what to do about Peter Thiel
The 49-year-old libertarian has invested money to make people immortal, develop floating cities away from the reach of governments, and convince young people not to go to college, among other endeavors.
He notably bankrolled the Hulk Hogan sex tape lawsuit against Gawker that resulted in a $140.1 million judgment and forced Gawker into a bankrupcty auction.
-- CNN's Jeremy Diamond and CNNMoney's Matt Egan, Seth Fiegerman, Chris Isidore and Brian Stelter contributed to this story.
For some, Obamacare meant that they could get medical care that literally kept them alive. They had cancer, diabetes, depression or other conditions that left them uninsurable prior to health care reform.
 Obamacare under President Trump: What happens next?
Others took advantage of the Obamacare provision that let them keep their children on their health insurance plans until the kids turned 26. They feared their sons and daughters would be left uninsured or struggling to pay high premiums if they couldn't remain on their plans.
And still others said that Obamacare allowed them to become entrepreneurs or retire early while maintaining coverage for themselves and their families.
All were left wondering what President-elect Donald Trump and Republicans in Congress have in store. While they've heard a lot about the incoming administration's plans for "repeal," they don't know much about Trump's plans for "replace."
Take Barbara Boros, a 58-year old graphic designer who hasn't been able to find full-time work for several years. Having Obamacare meant she could see the doctors and get the tests she needed to keep her kidney disease in check. She pays less than $100 a month, after subsidies, far cheaper than the individual plan she bought after losing her job in 2011. That prior plan drained her savings, and she would have been forced to go without coverage if Obamacare were not enacted.
Boros' condition has now worsened, and she is expecting to have a kidney transplant in December. Without Obamacare, the Santa Barbara, California, resident fears she won't have insurance to get the follow-up care she needs.
"Obamacare saved my life without a doubt," she said. "I'm concerned about coverage after the transplant. It will be important to keep being monitored and be able to take any medication necessary to keep me alive."
 Obamacare sign-ups surge after Trump's election
Obamacare is equally as important to John Williams, a 39-year-old attorney with his own criminal defense and civil rights firm in New Orleans. Williams has multiple sclerosis and was uninsured for a time before Obamacare was passed because of his pre-existing condition.

Thanks to Obamacare, which costs him $250 a month, he is able to see his neurologist, get MRIs and take medication that costs $4,000 a month to keep his condition under control. What's more, he can remain at his private practice, which he says allows him to contribute to society in the best way he sees fit.
If Obamacare is repealed, Williams worries he'll have to dismantle his own four-year-old business and join a firm so he can get coverage.
 Obamacare architect: Replacing it won't be easy
"It's hard to organize my future if I can't plan how to get treatment for my disease," said Williams. "Health care is one thing I can't do without."
Even those who aren't sick depend on Obamacare.
For Ben Irwin, Obamacare has allowed him to take a job that he describes as "a life's calling." After he lost his job at a religious publishing firm in 2015, he took a job at a small nonprofit organization that provides food and water to refugees in Iraq and Syria. He couldn't have done this without Obamacare because he would have had to find work at a larger firm that would provide health insurance for him and his family. Now, they are covered by a plan that costs $350 a month.
"It seems cruel that people like me have to choose between doing constructive good in the world and providing health care for my family," said Irwin, 39, of Grand Rapids, Michigan.
Here's a look at five of the business executives advising Trump's transition:
Steve Bannon
Bannon, a former Goldman Sachs investment banker, has spent years as a conservative media executive.
He took leave from his position as chairman of the right wing Breitbart News in August to become the CEO of the Trump campaign.
During Bannon's tenure at Breitbart, the website advocated for Trump's populist, nationalist policy positions and touted conspiracies theories about Democrat Hillary Clinton's health.
A Bloomberg profile of Bannon, 62, last year described Breitbart as a "crusading right-wing populist website that's a lineal descendant of the Drudge Report (its late founder, Andrew Breitbart, spent years apprenticing with Matt Drudge) and a haven for people who think Fox News is too polite and restrained."
 Steve Bannon: The 'street fighter' who's now running Trump's campaign
Jared Kushner
Kushner. 35, is a real estate developer and publisher who is married to Trump's daughter, Ivanka. He's amassed billions of dollars in properties within the New York real estate market.
Kushner attracted attention this summer as a key political adviser to Trump's campaign. A source told CNN he was "intimately involved" with the decision to fire campaign manager Corey Lewandowski, who he and Trump's children repeatedly butted heads with.
Trump's son-in-law also owns the New York Observer, a weekly publication that ended its print edition Friday.
Steven Mnuchin
Mnuchin, 54, is a campaign fundraiser and ex-banker who has contributed to Republicans and Democratic candidates, including Hillary Clinton's Senate campaigns and 2008 presidential run.
The Trump campaign's finance chairman was formerly a partner at Goldman Sachs, working for the firm for 17 years until 2002. He reportedly earned $46 million.
Mnuchin and his brother are among those who profited from Bernie Madoff's ponzi scheme. They successfully fought off a court challenge to reclaim profits from the illegal scheme to help compensate victims of the scam.
He now works as a Hollywood producer, financing films like "Suicide Squad," "American Sniper" and "The Lego Movie."
Anthony Scaramucci
Scaramucci, 52, is a hedge-fund executive who joined Trump's national finance committee during the campaign.
Scaramucci founded and co-manages SkyBridge Capital, the firm that hosts a large, biannual investment conference called SkyBridge Alternatives, or SALT.
He previously supported former GOP presidential candidates Jeb Bush and Scott Walker.

Peter Thiel
Thiel, a PayPal cofounder and Facebook board member, broke from the rest of Silicon Valley by endorsing Trump during his campaign.
Thiel, who spoke at the Republican National Convention, also pledged to donate $1.25 million to elect Trump in the final weeks of the campaign when the candidate was under fire for multiple allegations of sexual assault.
 Silicon Valley wrestles with what to do about Peter Thiel
The 49-year-old libertarian has invested money to make people immortal, develop floating cities away from the reach of governments, and convince young people not to go to college, among other endeavors.
He notably bankrolled the Hulk Hogan sex tape lawsuit against Gawker that resulted in a $140.1 million judgment and forced Gawker into a bankrupcty auction.
-- CNN's Jeremy Diamond and CNNMoney's Matt Egan, Seth Fiegerman, Chris Isidore and Brian Stelter contributed to this story.
"I think regulation, all it does is make a bad banker probably worse, if you think about it," Trump said on Fox and Friends in May 2012. "I think the regulations are not good. Dodd-Frank stops — you try and go out if you're starting a business, you try and go to a bank and get money, they're afraid to loan it."
"They'll always talk about 'regulators, oh the regulators, they're watching.' Well, what are they watching? They're watching job creation," continued Trump. "If you have a lot of money, and you want to borrow money, you can borrow money, but you don't need the money. You can only borrow money today if you don't need the money. If you need money, and you want to build a business, and obviously there's risk, you can't borrow money at any rate."
In an interview with Fox News's "O'Reilly Factor" in April of 2011, Trump said regulations were making it tough to compete with the rest of the world.
"One of the reasons the recession hit us so hard is because weasels on Wall Street ginned up these real estate derivatives," asked host Bill O'Reilly. " You're a real estate guy. Would you crack down on Wall Street? Would you have more regulations on these people? More rules they have to follow over there?"
"I would not do that," Trump responded. "You're making it so tough for our companies and our Wall Street people -- let's use the word nicely -- our Wall Street people to compete with the rest of the world, because you have guys in London, guys in Switzerland, guys in Hong Kong that are giving very, very good deals, and they don't have the kind of regulation that we have here. I'm not a big regulation person. People find their ways around regulation very easily. These are super geniuses."
Speaking with CNBC in May of 2012 about J.P. Morgan Chase's massive 2012 trading loss due to the so-called London Whale, which led to criticism of the bank's internal controls and CEO James Dimon being dragged before Congress, Trump said the country's current "tremendous regulation" showed how regulation did not work.
"In theory we have tremendous regulation, probably more than any other country in the world as far as banking is concerned, and it didn't stop this $2 billion loss. Frankly, even before Dodd-Frank or any of the other various legislative mandates a long time ago. If you remember, only four years ago, there was plenty of legislation out there also. They've added to it and they've added to it in spades in you still had this. Now, they're talking about making more legislation. All that's going to do is stop people from making loans."
And, in March 2011, in an interview with CNBC host Larry Kudlow, Trump said the US needed to take away rules and regulations to make the country competitive.
"We have to take away some rules and regulations," stated Trump, saying friends who run big companies were afraid of being arrested for making the wrong decision.
"You wanna change the picture, and apparently, more went into the voting booth and decided that Trump was the answer," Buffett said.
 4 states just voted to hike their minimum wage
Later in the interview, when Harlow asked him who was winning in this economy, Buffett was blunt.
"The rich. Guys like me," he said.
But even though Buffett is doing well, he admitted the economy isn't in fantastic shape. And that probably helped fuel the rise of Trump, as well as Bernie Sanders, the Democratic senator from Vermont who challenged Clinton for the nomination.
"Bernie Sanders said to a good bit of American people, 'You're getting the short end of the stick. And it isn't your fault,'" Buffett said. But he added that he did not think Sanders would have a better shot of beating Trump than Clinton did.
He even cast doubt on recent numbers showing that the U.S. economy grew at a nearly 3% annualized pace in the third quarter.
 Are America's airports going to be great again
"It's softer than I think people think it is," Buffett said about the economy. "I don't mean it's weak, but it's softer than people think."
"The GDP, you know, comes out of the third quarter 2.9%. I don't think it was a 2.9% quarter," he added with a chuckle. "If I had to bet, if they end up revising the third quarter, you know, it'll get revised downward."
Still, Buffett remained optimistic that things will change for the better. He said the focus needs to be on improving incomes for average, working class Americans.
"Capitalism, the market system works," he said. "You want to keep a system where the goose lays more golden eggs every year. We've got that. Now, the question is: How do those eggs get distributed? And that is where the system needs some adjusting."
 Obamacare sign-ups surge after Trump win
But Buffett, as he has said in the past, does not think raising the minimum wage is the answer. He continued to stress that an earned income tax credit would do more to boost income than a minimum wage increase.
And Buffett continued to be hopeful that economic conditions will improve for all Americans -- and not just the wealthy.
"You don't have to worry about having more stuff. You do have to worry about whether people who are perfectly decent citizens working hard are getting enough of it," he said.
But Buffett stressed that the U.S. economy is not nearly in as bad shape as Trump and others have made it out to be. Here's his response when asked if America was already great, harping Trump's famous slogan.
"It's more than great," he said, laughing. "But it will become greater. But America is great."
"Those jobs are gone and they're not coming back," says Edward Alden, a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations. "Tariffs won't change that equation. Tariffs will make it worse."
Trump's economic adviser, Peter Navarro, emphasize that tariffs are more a threat than a first option in trade negotiations. Navarro said the tariffs can be used as a negotiating tool with Mexico and China to secure better trade terms. If they don't cooperate -- and China hasn't in the past -- Trump claims in his website that's when he'll apply tariffs.
 The future of global trade under Trump
When countries slap trade barriers on each other, that defines a trade war. And China, if not Mexico too, likely won't wait to retaliate with tariffs or sanctions of its own against America.
China "wouldn't take anything lying down, almost with guaranteed certainty," says Doug Irwin, a Dartmouth professor, who worked in Ronald Reagan's administration on trade.
To be clear, Trump can unilaterally hit Mexico and China with tariffs. He doesn't need input from Congress, especially under certain laws and circumstances that have broad interpretations.
The Constitution gives Congress the authority to use tariffs against other nations. However, a series of statutes enacted by Congress in the last 100 years have given the president power to use tariffs at his discretion.
For example, if Trump declares a "national emergency" over lost jobs, he can raise tariffs as high as he wants.
"Absolutely he can -- he has enormous powers," says Gary Hufbauer, senior fellow at Peterson Institute of International Economics, which outlined what Trump could do with trade. "He can impose tariffs."
 Mexican peso crashes to all-time low
But Hufbauer and other trade experts argue that tariffs won't bring jobs back.
More importantly, they will make things more expensive. All sorts of stuff -- from cars to clothes to electronics -- are mostly made abroad and companies don't pay a tax to bring them from China and Mexico to America. With a tariff, the price tag for many goods will go up dramatically.
And tariffs don't guarantee that the jobs in Mexico and China come back to America.
"It will encourage importers to switch to other countries -- Vietnam, Hong Kong, Malaysia," says Robert Scott, a trade economist at the Economic Policy Institute. Tariffs are "a very ineffective weapon. It would be very costly and it would not do a very good job of rebuilding manufacturing."
Trump's supporters believe the outcome will be different. Jock Buta runs Butech Bliss, a company that makes equipment for processing steel and employs 230 people in Salem, Ohio. He voted for Trump.
Buta realizes the risks of tariffs and believes Trump will need to put tariffs on more countries than just China and Mexico to bring jobs back. He's not convinced tariffs will make goods that much more expensive for Americans.
A trade war makes him nervous but says, "I don't know if that's the end of the world."
 Remember America's last trade war: Smoot-Hawley
"I know there's serious risks," says Buta, 46. "We have to be willing to take those risks...something needs to be done if we're going to grow and retain domestic jobs."
Three hours up the Rust Belt road from Buta is Alan Deardorff, a professor at the University of Michigan.
Deardorff hosted an event on Thursday about the future of a trade deal, the Trans-Pacific Partnership. The event had been scheduled before Trump won, and Deardorff saw the futility of it since a Trump win meant that TPP was likely dead.
But the possibility of a Trump trade war is very much alive.
"He has talked about doing things that would cause a trade war," says Deardorff. "Absolutely -- the possibility has been heightened."
However, Buffett said he has not sold a single share of the bank since Wells Fargo admitted in September to creating as many as 2 million fake accounts and firing 5,300 of its workers related to the scandal.
Berkshire Hathaway is Wells Fargo's biggest shareholder and Buffett personally owns 2 million shares.
Buffett said he continues to have faith in Wells Fargo as an "incredible institution." It was Buffett's first public comments on Wells Fargo since the fake account scandal rocked the bank.
 Who owns Wells Fargo anyway? You, me and Warren Buffett
In the weeks since the news first broke, Wells Fargo's name has been dragged through the mud. The bank's CEO was humiliated and taunted on the floor of both the House and Senate. Members of Congress called Wells Fargo a "criminal enterprise" and Senator Elizabeth Warren's epic takedown of the CEO went viral.
Within days, CEO John Stumpf resigned in disgrace. And the bank is being investigated by the Department of Justice and multiple federal, state and local agencies.
Wells Fargo has since abandoned the unrealistic sales goals that employees blame for the millions of fake accounts. The blind pursuit of these goals led to a "toxic" culture that employees said was rife with bullying, intimidation and even retaliation against whistleblowers.
 Inside Wells Fargo, workers say the mood is grim
Asked why he's sticking with Wells Fargo despite the controversy swirling around the bank, Buffett said he's sure this is not the only company he's invested in that has problems.
"It's not my job to run those companies," he said.
One of the reasons why there's been so much speculation over whether Buffett would continue to hold on to his Wells Fargo stock was the famous comments Buffett made 25 years ago to Congress. At that time there was a scandal rocking Salomon Brothers, an investment bank Berkshire had invested in, and Buffett was on the board of directors at Salomon.
"Lose money for my firm and I will be understanding; lose a shred of reputation for the firm, and I will be ruthless," Buffett testified before Congress in 1991.
Buffett was already an investing legend by then, but comments like this sealed his own reputation as an investor with values and integrity.
 Wells Fargo workers describe mental health nightmares
This time, Buffett is sticking by Wells Fargo. That doesn't mean he's shied away from criticizing the response by Wells Fargo and its former CEO.
Buffett described Stumpf as a "very decent man" who "made a hell of a mistake." But Buffett learned of the scandal only after he read media reports.
After seeing Stumpf downplay the situation during a CNBC interview in September, Buffett called him. "I said, 'I don't think you've gotten the gravity of the situation.'"
Asked if he felt misled by Stumpf, Buffett said that he didn't.
"I feel he made a hell of a mistake...and he didn't correct it," Buffett said.
Buffett said he didn't want to draw too much of a parallel between Stumpf's inaction and that of John Gutfreund who was the CEO of Salomon during its scandal.
"John Gutfreund didn't commit the act of Solomon that caused the problem, He sucked his thumb...when he learned about it," Buffett said. "And then it mushroomed, as problems do, out of control. And then, being behind the curve, he didn't know what to do exactly."
 5,300 Wells Fargo employees fired over 2 million fake accounts
Buffett said he did not tell Stumpf to step down. That's because he's not technically allowed to do so. Buffett had agreed to become a "passive" investor in Wells Fargo as part of an agreement with the Federal Reserve when Berkshire boosted its stake to 10%, or 490 million shares. Of course, Buffett did speak with Stumpf, who was chairman of the board at the time.
Buffett disagreed with critics who think Wells Fargo should have hired an outsider for the top job instead of Tim Sloan, a 29-year veteran of the bank, who replaced Stumpf.
"I think Tim Sloan's exactly right," Buffett said, adding that the two met in Omaha over lunch.
However, Buffett acknowledged Sloan has his job cut out for him.
"It takes time to restore trust," Buffett said.
The problem is that gun lovers are losing their biggest boogeyman: Hillary Clinton, who would have continued President Barack Obama's pursuit of gun control legislation.
She was so reviled by the industry that Ruger CEO Michael Fifer described her in August as "actively campaigning against the lawful commerce in arms." At the same time, his company reported a 19% spike in quarterly sales, fueled by fear of Clinton.
The same thing has happened regularly after mass shootings during the Obama administration. People rush to buy guns, fearing tighter gun control measures. Gun company stocks go higher, too.
Before the election, "there was a widespread expectation that Hillary would win and some gun retailers began to stock up, expecting strong demand surge from the prospect of tightening gun control under a Hillary Clinton administration," said Rommel Dionisio, a gun industry analyst for Wunderlich Securites.
"Obviously, that's not going to happen," he said. Now that Trump will be president and Republicans will control both houses of Congress, he said demand for guns will probably drop over the next year or two.
 Ruger CEO says Clinton was 'actively campaigning' against gun industry
Larry Keane, senior vice president and general counsel of the National Shooting Sports Foundation, a gun industry group, said "our industry will continue to grow" but in a "more normalized market with a more stable political environment."
He said the industry will experience "fewer spikes in demand that occur when the law abiding consumer perceives that anti-gun politicians will enact restrictions on their ability to purchase the products they want to buy."

Background checks conducted by the FBI, which roughly rise and fall with gun sales, surged after the mass shootings at a Newtown, Connecticut, elementary school in 2012, an office in San Bernardino, California, in 2015, and the Pulse nightclub in Orlando, Florida, this year.
AR-15s were used in all those shootings, so people rushed to buy the military-style semiautomatic rifles, fearing a return of the so-called assault weapons ban, which expired in 2004.
High-capacity magazines are also favored by mass shooters, so people rushed to buy those, too. They were also restricted under the expired ban.
One of the biggest surges in FBI background checks occurred after the Newtown shooting, when Obama proposed restricting assault weapons and expanding background checks. When the bill died in Congress, background checks dropped, temporarily.
 Smith & Wesson is changing its name
The pattern appears to be repeating itself now that Clinton has been defeated.
It's a tradeoff for gun manufacturers -- a decreased threat of gun control laws comes with lower sales. Marty Daniel, CEO and co-founder of Daniel Defense, a manufacturer that specializes in AR-15s, discussed it with CNNMoney at the NRA annual meeting in May.
"If Hillary's elected, we'll have the best four years that we could ever have, but I would not trade that for what's best for our country for anything in this world," he said.
That's a turnaround from what Buffett told Berkshire Hathaway (BRKB) shareholders before its annual meeting in Omaha in April.
When an investor asked him if he'd be worried about how his businesses would perform under a President Trump, Buffett quipped "that won't be the main problem," a remark that issued laughter from the crowd.
But Buffett took a more conciliatory tone Thursday -- even as he defended why he still thinks Clinton was the better candidate.
"You have to choose between two people and I chose Hillary," saying that her temperament was the number one reason why he endorsed and voted for her. He added that he has not spoken with her since the election.
 Buffett backed Clinton over Trump
Buffett said he understands why Trump won. Many Americans are resentful about the wealth gap in the country.
Can Trump fix that? Buffett said he was skeptical of some of Trump's claims about how fast he can grow the economy.
"Nobody can grow the economy 4% in real terms over time," Buffett said, referring to a Trump campaign promise. "The math is too extraordinary."
But Buffett thinks that even 2% annual growth over a period of a few years will lead to wage growth and gains in the stock market.
Speaking of stocks, Buffett said he was not surprised to see the market rally after Trump won. He thought concerns the market would tank due to Trump were "silly."
What's more, this week's rally has helped make Buffett even wealthier.
Berkshire stock has popped. The company owns and operates the big insurer Geico and railroad Burlington Northern Santa Fe. Berkshire also invests heavily in large financial firms and industrial giants. Those sectors have been big winners since the election.
 Railroads rally on Trump win -- except one with Mexico ties
Investors have been betting that Trump will seek to cut back on regulation of banks and other industries and also spend more to repair highways, bridges and other parts of the nation's infrastructure.
Buffett said he was buying stocks a few weeks ago when he thought Clinton would win -- and that he continued to do so this week after she lost.
He said stocks will be higher 10, 20 and 30 years from now and that would have been the case if Clinton won.
And he continued, as he has done for years, to stress that America is a "fantastic country."
At the end of the day, Buffett said he's not worried about Trump trying to enact some of the more controversial things that he talked about in his campaign, such as cracking down on immigration and enacting isolationist trade policies.
"There are a lot of things said in campaigns that don't happen after the election," he said.
Asked about Trump's proposal to impose 35% tariffs on goods imported to the U.S. -- Buffett said: "It's a bad idea, a very bad idea, but I'm not going to say it is going to cause a recession."
He also didn't seem worried about Trump's mixed track record as a businessman. Buffett even joked that President Harry Truman ran a failed haberdashery store and that "he turned out to be a terrific president."
Buffett said he thought Trump was very good at licensing and promoting his name. But he continued to argue that Trump didn't have a great track record of operating casinos and other Trump-branded businesses successfully.
That isn't Buffett's concern.
"I don't have to worry about him running a business anymore," he said.
But if President-elect Trump called Buffett asking for advice on the economy, would Buffett offer a hand?
"I would do that with any president. I've never called a president in my life. So I don't initiate 'em. But ... but if any president asks me for help in any way, I mean, that's part of being a citizen," Buffett said.
However, the move higher isn't enough to compensate for the painful losses suffered by Chinese investors in 2008 and 2015. The Shanghai Composite is still down 48% from its 2007 pre-financial crisis high, and 38% below another smaller peak set last June.
Chinese markets are extremely volatile because they're dominated by mom-and-pop investors who tend to follow trends, herd into stocks and then get skittish.
The country's second-largest index, the Shenzhen Composite, is prone to even wilder swings. It's up 30% from its January low.
Charlie Awdry, a fund manager at Henderson Global Investors who specializes in Chinese equities, said the new bull market resulted from a "stealth drift up" over the past few months rather than a sudden surge.
Trading volumes -- the number of shares traded each day -- are still pretty low, he said.

Chinese investors are getting back into the market and bidding shares higher as they divert their money away from an overheated housing market that's becoming less and less affordable.
The government recently moved to cool the market by introducing restrictions on purchases, and some investors have reacted by moving their money into stocks, said Awdry.
Government spending on infrastructure projects and lending by state banks have also played a part in the stock market recovery.
The stimulus measures are being taken to support China's slowing economy, which is growing by 6.7% annually. That may sound fast, but it's much slower than the double-digit growth seen in previous years.
 China's currency hits 6-year low after Trump win
The start of the bull market in China comes immediately after Donald Trump's election win in the U.S., which helped the Dow Jones Industrial Average hit an all-time high on Thursday.
But experts say there's no connection to the presidential election.
"[Chinese investors are] probably watching the fact that Trump [was elected to be] President... but that's really not occupying much mindshare as they're trading this market," said Awdry. "They are dancing to a different tune than everyone else."
No U.S. airport receives a five-star rating from SkyTrax, a respected airline and airport rating and review group. There are only three four-star airports: San Francisco, Houston-Hobby and Cincinnati.
The quality of U.S. airports receive low marks from both sides of the political aisle. Vice President Joe Biden also described LaGuardia Airport as "like a third world country." That airport is already undergoing a more than $5 billion modernization.
9 reasons travelers hate LaGuardia Airport
The U.S. "was built on a world class infrastructure system," said Roger Dow, president of the U.S. Travel Association. "We fell asleep in the '70 and '80s" as Asian airports were developed. The United States looks like it's falling behind, he said.
As part of his plan for his first 100 days, unveiled in October, Trump has proposed a $1 trillion investment in infrastructure and energy projects over a decade, focusing on U.S. roads, bridges and airports.
"We're going to rebuild our infrastructure, which will become, by the way, second to none. And we will put millions of our people to work as we rebuild it," he said in his victory speech in the early hours of Wednesday.
World's best airports for 2016 announced
Still, fixing American airports won't be easy. Improving the facilities is not as easy as directly committing new federal dollars and requires a change in how airports are funded in the U.S., say aviation experts.
Airport funding breaks down into three broad categories.
The first, the federally funded Airport Improvement Program, goes to safety- and operations-related improvements to runways, taxiways and aprons where aircraft park. This program funded the system that prevented Vice President-elect Mike Pence's plane from careening onto the highway near LaGuardia one night in late October.
Thanks to these kinds of investments -- totaling $3.2 billion this year -- America has among the safest airports in the world. That's critical to safe and seamless travel in the U.S., but cranky passengers don't see or feel the benefits in terms of their comfort.
Transforming airports won't be determined by federal funding at all, but rather a $4.50 fee on each leg of your ticket that goes directly to the airport. These fees make up the second category of funding.
How much an airport has available to spend depends on how many people are flying there.
These Passenger Facility Charges can be used for new terminals, gates, ticket counters, lobbies or ground transportation like the AirTrain system at New York's JFK.
The airport lounge: The new front line in the battle of the airlines
Airports collected $3 billion from these charges in 2015, though it's estimated that U.S. airports required $15 billion to support infrastructure improvements.
The fees haven't increased since 2000, and many of the trade associations for tourism and airports favor an increase to $8.50.
The Airports Council International North America last year identified 30 major projects that could be funded with an increase, but they are unglamorous jobs like terminal expansions and elevators.
Will you get to enjoy fancy restaurants, shops, modern parking or rental car facilities? Neither Trump nor traveler fees can help there. Those kinds of improvements are funded by the airlines and other businesses.
It's a mixed picture on global markets, too. Some European markets are pushing up in early trading while others are firmly in negative territory. It's the same story in Asia. The Hang Seng index in Hong Kong and India's Sensex index were under pressure.
In commodities, gold and oil prices are also slipping.
Before the Bell newsletter: Key market news. In your inbox. Subscribe now!
2. Singles Day in China: People are shopping till they drop in China to celebrate Singles Day, a huge annual online retail festival hosted by Alibaba (BABA, Tech30).
The tech giant has already broken last year's record of 91 billion yuan in sales ($13.4 billion), more than Black Friday and Cyber Monday combined.
Sales rocketed above $1 billion within the first five minutes, Alibaba said. Watch out for any reaction in its shares.
3. Stock market movers -- Nvidia, Nordstrom, Disney: Shares in tech firm Nvidia (NVDA, Tech30) and retailer Nordstrom (JWN) were rising premarket after both companies reported better-than-expected earnings on Thursday after the bell.
Disney (DIS) stock is also rising a bit after the company's management issued a sunny outlook.
Meanwhile, JC Penney (JCP) is set to release earnings before the open Friday.
4. Economics: Federal Reserve vice chair Stanley Fischer is speaking Friday. It's unlikely he'll comment on the U.S. election, but he may give some guidance on the possibility of a December rate hike.
Meanwhile, the University of Michigan consumer sentiment report for November is set for release at 10 a.m. ET.
Download CNN MoneyStream for up-to-the-minute market data and news
5. Coming this week: Friday - J C Penney (JCP) earnings, Singles Day wraps up in China
However, New Balance quickly issued a statement explaining what was meant by "in the right direction."
@SoleCollector @newbalance good to know. I made a little bonfire tonight :) pic.twitter.com/yOdCTbQgac

@SoleCollector @newbalance pic.twitter.com/6dROPnmYdm

@SoleCollector @newbalance pic.twitter.com/r3j6sXsdAP

 Trans-Pacific trade pact: Negotiators finally get it done
New Balance said that the comments were about the Trans Pacific Partnership, which would reduce tariffs and quotas on imported goods. Some opponents have warned that the trade deal would cost jobs in the U.S.
New Balance has been outspoken about its dislike of the TPP.
"New Balance publicly supported the trade positions of Hillary Clinton, Bernie Sanders and Donald Trump prior to election day that focused on American manufacturing job creation and we continue to support them today," the statement said.
"As the only major company that still makes athletic shoes in the United States, New Balance has a unique perspective on trade in that we want to make more shoes in the United States, not less."
On Thursday, after outrage continued to build on social media, New Balance tweeted another message.
pic.twitter.com/biUiwFkNzS
"We believe in community. We believe in humanity. From the people who make our shoes to the people who wear them, we believe in acting with the utmost integrity and we welcome all walks of life," the tweet said.
"That's an indication of the success of the program when you consider the intense demand that people have for these services and for these opportunities ... and [they] are only available because of the Affordable Care Act," said White House Press Secretary Josh Earnest.
Best day yet this Open Enrollment. Nov 9: Over 100K plan selections on https://t.co/VvaQqwzQu6. Consumers shopping & enrolling. #GetCovered

Throughout his campaign, Trump has promised to dismantle Obamacare as soon as he takes office. But it won't be easy to do and he has not provided many details on what he'd do to replace it.
Additional information about Obamacare sign-ups won't be available until next Wednesday. Some 11.4 million people are expected to enroll in 2017, according to Obama administration projections.
Next year's enrollment was seen as critical to bringing insurers back into the program and securing Obamacare's future, which was battered this year by skyrocketing premiums and insurer defections. However, it matters less now since Trump intends to eliminate the program.
 Obamacare under President Trump: What happens next?
Some states that run their own exchanges also released their sign up data. Nearly 22,000 Minnesota residents enrolled over the past nine days, while Connecticut saw nearly 4,000 people pick plans.
Those who sign up for policies are not officially enrolled until they pay their first month's premium.
 America's Brexit: What Trump means for world trade
But the union was a major advocate for Clinton, citing her longstanding support for labor. The UAW, which has a history of backing Democrats, reassured members that she also pledged to reject "unfair" trade agreements like the TPP.
"Secretary Clinton, as senator, actually voted to support the auto industry," Williams said.
Similar positions on trade, however, could help the UAW and Trump become allies. Williams said he favors Trump's pledge to impose a 35% tariff on cars made by U.S. companies in Mexico and imported to the U.S.
 Trump's 35% Mexico tax would cost Ford billions and hurt Americans
The UAW said it believes 28% of its members supported Trump based on internal data, though Williams acknowledged the actual number who cast a ballot for the Republican candidate may be higher.
That's slightly lower than the 31% of UAW members who supported Republican candidate John McCain in 2008, and the 33% of members who supported Mitt Romney in 2012. Williams said the organization put out more information to members this election than ever before.
The union represents more than 400,000 auto workers in the United States, Canada and Puerto Rico, including those employed by Ford, General Motors and Fiat Chrysler Automobiles. It also has more than 580,000 retired members. Many live in Rust Belt states that were key for Trump.
"We have a president-elect, and we're going to try to find some common ground," Williams said.
"I don't think anyone would want to pass a bill overnight that cost 20 million people their health insurance," said Michael Sparer, chair of health policy and management at Columbia University's School of Public Health. "The question is what does he really want to do."
Trump has yet to lay out a detailed plan on how he'd replace Obamacare. But it's unlikely he and Congress will do anything that kills Obamacare for those who sign up for coverage next year, experts say. Open enrollment has already started, and the Obama administration estimated more than 11.4 million people will be insured through the exchanges in 2017.
Any legislation will probably include a delayed shuttering of the exchanges -- and of the federal subsidies program that millions depend on to afford the policies -- to give enrollees time to find coverage elsewhere. The insurance industry will also need a period to adjust since any swift changes to the individual market could throw their businesses into turmoil.
 Repealing Obamacare? Here's how Congress could do it
Six years after President Obama's signature health reform law was passed, Obamacare has become an integral part of the nation's health care landscape. Some 20 million people are insured either through the individual health insurance exchanges, the expansion of Medicaid or the ability of children to stay on their parents' plans until age 26. The uninsured rate has plummeted, and stood at 8.9% in the first six months of 2016.
Wiping all this out faces hurdles both politically and procedurally, experts say.
Here's what could happen:
Congressional Republicans have passed dozens of bills to repeal Obamacare. Only one made it to the president's desk, and that legislation provides valuable insight into how Trump and GOP lawmakers may fulfill his campaign pledge, said Timothy Jost, an emeritus professor at Washington and Lee University School of Law.
Passing a bill to overturn Obamacare would require 60 votes in the Senate, and Republicans don't control enough seats to squash a filibuster by the Democrats. But GOP lawmakers, who will have 51 seats in the Senate, could use the budget reconciliation process that only needs approval of a simple majority. This process is limited to provisions that affect federal revenues and spending.
 Trump, Pence pitch Obamacare repeal a week from election
Last year, Congress passed a reconciliation bill that would have repealed the mandates that individuals have coverage and that companies with 50 or more employees provide workers with affordable insurance. Also, it would have done away with the federal subsidies by 2018, eliminated funding for Medicaid expansion and canceled a multitude of Obamacare-related taxes. And it would have given Congress two years to come up with a replacement.
Obama vetoed the bill.
With Republicans in control of both Congress and the White House, Trump and lawmakers can try once again to dismantle the core of the health reform law. Still, it could take several months, and going this route would likely prevent Congress from shedding insurance industry reforms, such as requiring carriers to cover those with pre-existing conditions or capping enrollees' annual out-of-pocket spending since they don't involve federal dollars.
Trump doesn't need to pass any laws to severely wound Obamacare, however, Jost pointed out. The President-elect likely already has hurt enrollment on the exchanges for 2017. Those who didn't really want to sign up probably won't and others may shy away thinking the system will be dismantled anyway.
"Will people continue to enroll or will they think things are so uncertain, they won't bother?" Jost said.
 Is Obamacare really affordable? Not for the middle class
He could do additional damage by limiting funding to promote sign-ups in the critical final days of open enrollment, which ends Jan 31.
A Trump administration could also stop implementing or enforcing some Obamacare regulations -- such as the restrictions on insurers' offering plans with limited benefits -- and grant waivers to allow states to opt out of parts of the law. And it could broaden the hardship exemption, which would allow more people to avoid the penalty for remaining uninsured.
The incoming administration could also stop defending the federal government in lawsuits, notably the one challenging the subsidies to help reduce low-income Americans' deductibles and out-of-pocket expenses. This would immediately throw insurers into a tailspin since more than half of enrollees receive these subsidies.
But the bigger question is what would replace Obamacare? Neither Trump nor Congress have provided a detailed plan.
Trump has generally said that freeing the insurance industry from Obamacare's grip would lead to more affordable and accessible coverage. His main proposal is to allow insurers to sell policies across state lines. He would promote Health Savings Accounts to let people sock away money tax-free for health care costs, and allow those who buy coverage outside their jobs to deduct the cost of their premiums on their taxes.
 Would Clinton or Trump make health care more affordable?
Also, he would turn Medicaid into a block grant program in which states would get a fixed amount of federal funds to cover low-income residents. Proponents say this would give states more flexibility to design programs to cover their residents. But advocates for the poor say block grants would limit funding and therefore reduce access to Medicaid, especially in times of economic stress when enrollment rises.
These measures, however, wouldn't do much to ensure all Americans have access to affordable coverage, experts said.
Among the leading questions is just how Trump would ensure those with pre-existing conditions have access to insurance.
Obamacare banned insurers from turning away those with cancer, diabetes or any other medical issues. But it seems Trump may alter that provision. Vice President-elect Mike Pence said last week that those with pre-existing conditions will not be charged more or denied coverage so long as they have paid their premiums consistently. And Trump's campaign website says he would work with states to establish high-risk pools to cover those with medical conditions. Such state-based pools existed before Obamacare and faced many problems in providing insurance to sick residents.
So just what a replacement plan looks like -- and how long it will take Trump and Congress to come up with one -- remains to be seen.
"Trump says he'll cover everybody," Jost said. "Let's see how he does it."
But while Wall Street was saying "all aboard!" for most of the sector, one railroad got left at the station. Shares of Kansas City Southern (KSU), which does about half of its business in Mexico, plunged more than 10% Wednesday and was down again Thursday.
If Trump is serious about building a wall on the border, ripping up the NAFTA trade agreement and essentially pretending that it's 1836 and remembering the Alamo, then Kansas City Southern could suffer.
Canadian railroads Canadian Pacific (CP) and Canadian National Railway (CNI) could also be hurt if Trump ramps up his anti-Mexico rhetoric. Those two stocks also run north-south rail lines. Shares of each fell on Wednesday but rebounded a bit on Thursday.
 The 'yuge' Donald Trump market rally continues
Trump's tough Mexico talk could be also bad news for big car companies like Ford (F) and GM (GM) that ship autos made in Mexico on Kansas City Southern trains back to the U.S.
Jim Corridore, equity analyst at CFRA Research, thinks it makes sense for investors to be wary of Kansas City Southern in light of Trump's win.
But he added that the worst of the selloff may be over, especially if Trump is more diplomatic as president than he was as a candidate.
"Business repercussions related to an assumed protectionist strategy remain to be seen," Corridore said in a report, adding that investors are now accurately pricing in risk that Trump's trade stances will actually hurt Kansas City Southern.
Still, there's one other big railroad in the U.S. that may benefit from Trump's win. Burlington Northern Santa Fe. It's part of a much bigger company though.
BNSF is now owned by Berkshire Hathaway (BRKB), the conglomerate run by Warren Buffett. And shares of Berkshire have risen along with the broader market and other railroad stocks since Trump won.
It's somewhat ironic that Buffett -- at least for the past two days -- is profiting from Trump's ascendancy. After all, Buffett was a vocal backer of Hillary Clinton.
 Mexican peso plunges to all-time low
And at Berkshire's annual shareholder meeting in Omaha back in April, Buffett said this when asked about whether or not he'd be concerned about what would happen to his investments if Trump wound up beating Clinton.
"That won't be the main problem," he quipped, a remark that issued laughter from the crowd.
But for now at least, investors feel that a Trump administration will be good news for Buffett's big railroad and many others.
Analysts at Wolfe Research, a boutique firm that focuses on the transportation sector, thinks Trump's win is a positive for railroads -- if for no other reason than that President Obama and Clinton were so against the coal industry.
"President Obama's anti-coal regulations have been painful for the rails the past several years, but Mr. Trump is much more pro-coal," the Wolfe analysts said. "Anti-coal regulations such as the Clean Power Plan are now less likely to be implemented."
And when Buffett bought BNSF seven years ago, he referred to the investment as an "all-in" bet on the American economy. It seems that wager is still paying off, even though the Oracle of Omaha's preferred presidential candidate lost.
When an anchor pointed out that Trump is no longer a candidate and that his children will manage the clothing company, Lundgren said: "You wouldn't want to have a product that was held by a prominent Republican or a prominent Democrat because 48% of the population doesn't think that's a good idea."
 Despite history, Bezos wishes Trump 'great success'
Ivanka Trump's line of clothing and accessories is still sold at Macy's. Lundgren did not mention any plans to stop selling it.
Trump urged his fans to boycott Macy's last year after his clothing was dropped.
Macy's (M) reported earnings on Thursday that fell short of Wall Street expectations, but it raised its outlook for sales.
Activists have warned that the policies will accelerate climate change and endanger the environment.
But investors appear to be confident that Trump will be able to implement his proposals.
"Right off the bat I believe he will roll back things like the Clean Power Plan," said Sarah Emerson, president of Energy Security Analysis, referring to an initiative launched by President Obama that aims to reduce carbon pollution and slow climate change.
Shares in major coal producers went crazy on Wednesday, making double digit gains on the back of the election results.
The biggest U.S. coal producer -- Peabody Energy (BTUUQ) -- saw shares rise 50% Wednesday and they're up again by more than 10% Thursday. The second and third biggest American producers -- Arch Coal (ARCH) and Cloud Peak Energy (CLD) -- have also rallied.
 Trump win is boost for infrastructure spending
Meanwhile, shares in the shale pioneer Chesapeake Energy (CHK) surged by nearly 9% Wednesday and are rallying again Thursday. Shares in Texas-based Cabot Oil & Gas (COG) and Valero Energy (VLO) also shot up Wednesday by 7.6% and 6.7%, respectively.
Oil pipeline operator Kinder Morgan (KMI) -- also based in Texas -- saw its shares climb 4.5%.

Trump could also be positive for Canada's energy sector.
TransCanada (TRP) has faced many setbacks in getting approval for its $5.4 billion Keystone XL pipeline, which is supposed to run between the U.S. and Canada. Obama would not give a presidential permit for the Keystone XL to proceed.
The company has already said it was "evaluating ways to engage the new administration," according to media reports.
Equity strategist Matthew Barasch at RBC Capital Markets said in a research note: "While we realize it may not be popular to say this, we would view President-elect Trump's environmental stance (especially as it pertains to energy policy) as positive for Canada."
 Oil producers face another year of 'relentless' pumping
Energy experts and market strategists caution that Trump's energy plans still aren't crystal clear.
"So far Trump's policies are heavy on headlines and light on details, so it remains to be seen whether he will follow through with his election campaign promises," said analysts at Accendo Markets.
But after eight years with Obama in the White House, businesses and environmentalists are expecting major change.
"It doesn't look positive for people who are moving to tackle climate change," said Aled Jones, director of the Global Sustainability Institute at Anglia Ruskin University in the U.K. "It's an interesting time to be an investor."
Gallery: Starbucks holiday cups through the years
Starbucks said at the time that it wanted a "purity of design that welcomes all of our stories." Critics called it a declaration of war on Christmas.
The new designs were culled from more than 1,000 submissions Starbucks received last December when it asked customers to share designs on Instagram.
Starbucks says it asked a small group of customers to mail in their cup so they could be reviewed for potential production.
 Starbucks' plain red holiday cups stir up controversy
The return of the red cup has been rumored for more than a week, after fans began noticing boxes at Starbucks stores labeled "no peeking" until Thursday.
Starbucks didn't comment on its red cup plans at the time, and instead unveiled a pre-election, limited edition green "unity" cup that CEO Howard Schultz called "a reminder of our shared values" during a "divisive time in our country."
"I'd love to see Dodd-Frank disappear," Greenspan told CNBC Thursday morning, adding that it is a "disastrous mistake."
Greenspan's comments stand at odds with his successors, former Fed Chair Ben Bernanke and current Chair Janet Yellen, both of whom have defended the need for Dodd-Frank.
 President Trump: a regulation killer and creator
"I think there's some big, important parts of Dodd-Frank...that are very helpful," Bernanke told Time in 2015 after his memoir, The Courage to Act, was released.
Dodd-Frank authorized the Fed to require Wall Street banks to hold more cash on hand than they previously had to. That has pinched bank's profits margins in recent years. Legal costs have also soared for big banks since Dodd-Frank became law.
The Fed also does annual "stress tests" of the banks to simulate whether the bank was strong enough financially to withstand another financial crisis.
All that regulation has triggered huge backlash from Wall Street and Republicans, including Trump.
In May, Trump told Reuters his regulation policy would be "close to dismantling Dodd-Frank."
Many investors worried that a Trump win would be bad for stocks. In case you haven't heard this before, the market hates uncertainty. And Trump is uncertainty on steroids.
What's more, stocks have historically gone down the day after Election Day. It hasn't mattered much if it was a Democrat or Republican winning, if the incumbent party (or president) was re-elected or if the outcome was considered an upset.
According to data from Jeff Hirsch, editor of the Stock Trader's Almanac, the average decline for the S&P 500 the day after Election Day between 1932 and 2012 was 1.1%. But the S&P 500 rose 1.1% on Wednesday.
The market only rallied on 6 of the past 21 post-Election Days.
Stocks even fell in 1980, after Ronald Reagan, the hero of the modern Republican Party, defeated Jimmy Carter. And the market dipped nearly 1% after Reagan's landslide win over Walter Mondale in 1984 as well.
Sign up for CNNMoney's morning market newsletter: Before The Bell
Stocks plunged 5.3% in 2008 after Barack Obama was elected. Of course, those were unusually tumultuous times for the market and economy. But the S&P 500 also fell 2.4% after he beat Mitt Romney in 2012.
The last post-Election Day rally prior to this year was in 2004. The S&P 500 rose more than 1% after President George W. Bush was re-elected, defeating John Kerry.
But stocks also rallied after Bill Clinton won a second term in 1996. They fell slightly when he beat the first President Bush in 1992 though.
The market usually gets over election jitters pretty quickly though.
The S&P 500 has risen an average of 0.2% in the first three days after Election Day going back to 1932. And the market is up more than 1%, historically, between Election Day and the end of the year.
 Trump win is boost for infrastructure spending
So can stocks keep rallying as Trump starts to make Cabinet picks and give more details about his economic and foreign policies?
Perhaps. Despite his mercurial nature during this long, nasty election cycle, Trump has already won raves from investors for his more measured acceptance speech.
Trump's remarks pleasantly surprised many since he dropped much of the bombast that was a hallmark of his throughout the campaign and pledged to be a president for the whole country.
Shares of many banks, drugmakers, oil companies and construction firms all rallied sharply Wednesday and rose Thursday as well.
Investors now seem to be betting that Trump, combined with a Republican-controlled House and Senate, may look to unwind some of the regulations on financial services companies put into place during the Obama administration.
 Trump will have major sway over the Fed's future
There are also hopes that Trump will propose plans to boost infrastructure spending, drill more for oil and also push back on some of the attacks against drug and biotech companies for price hikes on key medications.
But there are still questions about who Trump may appoint to slots on the Federal Reserve over his term. That will impact the markets. Who Trump may choose to add to the Supreme Court could also have an effect on stocks.
Tough talk from Trump about Mexico and China have also raised some worries that he could start a trade war which could be damaging to the markets, jobs and overall economy.
During the campaign, Trump said the deal "gave back to Iran $150 billion and gave us absolutely nothing -- it will go down in history as one of the worst deals ever negotiated."
Nobody wrote a check to Tehran for billions of dollars, but the U.S. did free up about $50 billion in previously frozen Iranian assets, according to a White House estimate.
The President-elect hasn't said much about what he plans to do about it. Here are three scenarios:
1. The U.S. pulls out of the deal
Officials in Iran have urged Trump to honor Obama's commitment. President Hassan Rouhani has said a single government cannot alter the nuclear deal.
Experts say the U.S. could withdraw, but unilateral action would create a huge rift with Europe, Russia and China.
"A Trump administration would be at liberty, theoretically at least, to revoke the participation of United States," said John Whittaker, a partner at law firm Clyde & Co in London.
"At a practical level, however, this would have severe consequences for the other signatories... in particular the European Union."
2. Trump keeps people guessing
After years of economic isolation, Iran has just begun to benefit from the easing of sanctions. Oil output has risen by nearly one million barrels per day, and Iran has agreed to buy airplanes from Airbus (EADSF) and Boeing (BA).
Just this week it clinched a $2 billion deal with France's Total (TOT) and China's CNPC to develop a huge gas field.
 Iran is back: Total signs $2 billion gas deal
Still, while many European companies have been eying opportunities in Iran, U.S. companies are very wary about doing business there. The U.S. still has restrictions in place that block most American firms from investing in Iran, and that's unlikely to change anytime soon.
By adding to the uncertainty over U.S. policy, Trump's election alone may have a chilling effect -- and not just for American companies such as Boeing or GE (GE), which has also been looking at opportunities in aviation and energy.
"There is uncertainty and so long as that remains, investment will be diminished not only by U.S. companies operating within the permitted U.S. sanction regime or under license, but also by European companies who are required to comply with U.S. sanctions," said Whittaker.
3. Congress gets involved again
Republicans in Congress are vehemently opposed to the deal with Iran. House Speaker Paul Ryan has pledged to do "everything possible" to prevent the longtime U.S. foe from obtaining nuclear weapons.
With a bigger majority in the House of Representative, and control of the Senate, they could try to undermine the deal by introducing new oversight measures on Iran, or even new sanctions, said Ellie Geranmayeh, policy fellow at the European Council on Foreign Relations.
"If Trump is unable or unwilling to veto such measures this will present a risk for the deal," she said.
For now, Tehran will have to wait and see which scenario plays out while strengthening ties with Europe, Russia and China, Geranmayeh added.
If the deal is undermined, there could be a sting in the tail.
"Iran is likely to consider all its options, including revamping its nuclear program and potentially swinging to a more conservative government...This is an option which would not be in the national security of Europe or the U.S.," Geranmayeh said.
"We will rebuild our infrastructure, which will become second to none," Trump reiterated in his big speech.
Wall Street and business leaders cheered then and are voting with their money now. Steel and construction company stocks jumped Wednesday. Many hope infrastructure is the first item on his economic "to do" list.
"We think the opportunity for a bipartisan bill on a multi-year infrastructure project is ripe for passage," says economist Joseph Brusuelas of RSM, an accounting and tax firm.
"We expect [Trump's] priorities will be infrastructure spending and tax cuts," echoed Janus Capital Group.
 What President Trump means for your pocketbook
In short, infrastructure is a win-win for Trump. It's a way to extend the olive branch to Congress as well as pump more money into the economy to create more jobs and stimulate growth.
The Business Roundtable, a business lobbying group, hailed Trump's "pro-growth policies" on Wednesday morning. The group said infrastructure spending and tax reform are two policies that business leaders "fully support."
"My guess is a $500 billion package," says David Kotok, chairman of Cumberland Advisors in Sarasota, Florida. "With a [Republican] Senate and House, he can get it passed."
Doing a bit more government spending on infrastructure is also likely to please the Federal Reserve. Trump slammed Fed chair Janet Yellen on the campaign trail, but Yellen and other Fed policymakers have been calling on Congress to do more fiscal stimulus since the Fed is nearly tapped out on ways it alone can try to increase growth and employment.
 Will President Trump get hit with a recession?
"We think the message of this election is that America demands stronger economic growth," wrote David Bianco of Deutsche Bank. He sees the election as a "'make growth priority one" mandate.
Whether infrastructure spending is able to double economic growth, as Trump wants, remains to be seen. Some like Doug Holtz-Eakin of the right-leaning American Action Forum warns that it is a just temporary infusion of cash into the economy. Finding true "shovel ready" projects was also a challenge in 2009 when President Obama and Congress tried to increase infrastructure spending during the Great Recession.
In the best case scenario, the infrastructure cash injection spurs more companies to spend. But it could also have the effect of lifting growth for a few quarters and then slip back to the mediocre growth of 1.5% to 2% that America has been stuck at lately.
But moving quickly on infrastructure would likely ease a lot of the business world's concerns about Trump's more extreme views on trade and immigration.
"Though Trump has been on the campaign trail for some two years, he still remains a staggeringly enigmatic person," writes Bernard Baumohl, chief global economist at The Economic Outlook Group.
OPEC agreed in principle to cut oil production at a meeting in September, and the group's experts are working on a deal that would allocate production targets to individual members ahead of its next gathering on Nov. 30.
The reductions will have to be significant. IEA data show that October was another record-breaking month for the cartel, with crude output increasing by 230,000 barrels a day to more than 33.8 million barrels a day.
The agency said all of the cartel's members except Saudi Arabia are now pumping close to their total production capacity.
Nigeria saw the biggest increase in output in October, while supply in Iraq reached the highest levels on record.
Oil prices have been hovering around $45 per barrel, but OPEC is hoping that they will rise to between $50 and $60 per barrel. Anything higher than that could encourage other producers -- like U.S. shale companies -- to restart operations.
 Why OPEC's oil deal won't mean a spike in gas prices
Even if OPEC agrees to the cut, however, prices may not go up as much as the group hopes. That's because the cartel is just one part of the equation. The IEA expects Russia, the world's biggest crude oil producer, to increase its output by 230,000 barrels a day this year and by an additional 200,000 barrels a day in 2017.
Brazil, Kazakhstan and Canada are also expected to ramp up production in the months to come.
At the same time, forecasts for slowing global growth give little hope that demand will rebound anytime soon.
A global glut of oil supply caused prices to crash over the past two years, and the world's biggest oil producers had refused to cut production in order to defend their market share.
One dollar now buys around 6.8 yuan, the weakest the Chinese currency has been since September 2010. It's fallen around 4.5% against the dollar so far this year after dropping a similar amount in 2015.
 What Trump means for world trade
On the face of it, the weakening yuan may seem to support Trump's accusations that Beijing is manipulating the currency to make its exports cheaper and more competitive. But China has in fact been waging an expensive war to stop the yuan from falling too fast too quickly. It's desperate to avoid a repeat of the sharp drops that panicked markets in August 2015 and January 2016.
China spends billions to support yuan
Beijing has burned through hundreds of billions of dollars since last year in efforts to prop up the yuan. Its foreign currency war chest, while still ample, has shrunk to its lowest level in five years.
A big factor in the yuan's recent decline has been the strengthening dollar, bolstered by expectations of a rate hike by the U.S. Federal Reserve next month. But China has its own problems, too, including slowing growth, an overheating property market and huge sums of money pouring out of the country.
Money still fleeing the country
More than $540 billion has flowed out of China so far this year, nearly 10% higher than during the same period in 2015, according to estimates from the Institute of International Finance.
 Jack Ma warns of 'disaster' if Trump doesn't work with China
Experts believe those pressures will persist -- and they expect the yuan will continue to slip lower against the dollar.
A major question is whether Trump will follow through with his threats against China. He's talked of slapping tariffs of as much as 45% on Chinese goods, a move that experts warn could trigger a trade war.
"A more conciliatory tone in his victory speech has raised hopes that he will back away from his most extreme campaign pledges," Capital Economics said in a research note. "Nonetheless, it remains possible that Trump will push for higher tariffs on Chinese goods and we expect a Trump presidency will waste little time in labeling China a currency manipulator."
"However, there are concerns that the financial markets are being somewhat short-sighted with yesterday's rebound," he said.
U.S. stock futures are pushing higher ahead of the opening bell, with pharma sector stocks leading the way up. Shares in Allergan (AGN) and Pfizer (PFE) are getting a boost on the expectation that Trump will not take action on rising drug prices.
Most European markets are higher by about 1% in early trading.
And Asian markets staged strong rebounds after rough sessions on Wednesday. The Nikkei in Tokyo was the biggest gainer, up 6.7% after falling by 5.4% in its previous session.
Before the Bell newsletter: Key market news. In your inbox. Subscribe now!
2. Yahoo deal in doubt: Shares in Yahoo (YHOO, Tech30) and Verizon (VZ, Tech30) could be on the move Thursday after Yahoo admitted in a new regulatory filing that there's "no assurance" that Verizon's planned takeover would actually go through.
Verizon might rescind its $4.8 billion offer because of damage from a colossal hack of Yahoo customer data.
The filing also revealed that Yahoo is "facing investigations by a number of federal, state, and foreign governmental officials and agencies" over the hack -- and these could result in "potential fines."
3. Yuan dips: The Chinese yuan hit a six-year low against the U.S. dollar on Thursday as investors weighed what a Trump presidency could mean for trade between the world's two largest economies.
The yuan has fallen around 4.5% against the dollar so far this year after dropping a similar amount in 2015.
Historically, China has kept tight control of the yuan and limited money flows in and out of the country.
4. Fed reaction to Trump?: The head of the U.S. Federal Reserve's St. Louis branch, James Bullard, is speaking Thursday morning. Traders will be watching to see whether he comments on Trump's victory.
5. Earnings: A range of retailers are reporting quarterly results Thursday.
Macy's (M), Kohl's (KSS) and Ralph Lauren (RL) are some of the key retailers releasing earnings before the open, while Dillard's (DDS) and Michael Kors (KORS) report after the close.
Some other big names are also jumping into the fray: AstraZeneca (AZN) is reporting Thursday morning and Disney (DIS) will release results after the close.
Download CNN MoneyStream for up-to-the-minute market data and news
6. Coming this week:
Thursday - Macy's (M) and Disney (DIS) earnings, Singles Day begins in China on Friday morning
Friday - J C Penney (JCP) earnings
He never committed to selling any of them if he became president. Nor would he have to, according to federal code.
"The law didn't contemplate having someone with these types of financial entanglements," said Kenneth Gross, a partner at the law firm Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom who has provided legal assistance to several presidential campaigns.
 Why Trump may never release his tax returns
While the U.S. Financial Conflict of Interest Statute prohibits officials of the executive branch from holding assets that would clash with their official duties, Congress chose to exempt the president and vice president. Trump is only required to disclose financial interests, including assets and liabilities.
The president and vice president are also exempt from a clause barring executive branch officials from earning income from their businesses.
Trump said many times that he would let his children and executives manage his holdings if he were elected. But government watchdogs are not convinced that he could conduct official business without weighing how presidential decisions would affect his and his family's financial interests.
Past presidents have put their assets into blind trusts, managed without their consent or knowledge. But Gross said those "have a political benefit more than any legal benefit."
Many of Trump's properties are physical entities, like golf courses or hotels. Even if he turned over management or put them in a trust, it would be impossible for him to separate his decisions from his interests, Gross said.
Creating a national park or closing a federal prison near a Trump property would make money for Trump, no matter who was running the property.
"If you own the Empire State Building and you put it in a blind trust," Gross said, "you're not going to forget that you own the Empire State Building."
 Trump will have huge sway over Fed's future
Richard Painter, a law professor at the University of Minnesota and former ethics lawyer for President George W. Bush, said Trump may need to be wary of other rules, however. He pointed to a clause in the Constitution barring anyone holding federal office from accepting a "present, emolument, office or title" from a foreign country.
"He does need to think very seriously about any dealings with foreign governments or corporations controlled by foreign governments," Painter said.
It's not difficult to see how that could come into play. If a sovereign wealth fund owned by the Chinese government wanted to invest in a Trump-branded hotel, for example, that could be considered a constitutional violation, said Norman Eisen, a visiting fellow at the Brookings Institution who led government ethics initiatives for President Barack Obama during his first term.
"He needs to take strong measures to address that," Eisen said. "Otherwise, the American people are going to hold him accountable."
Ideally, Eisen said Trump should impose ethical restrictions on his own business interests.
"I think he's shown that he can be very, very shrewd," Eisen said, "and the shrewd, smart, wise thing to do now would be to put in tough, tough ethics rules around all this stuff."
 What President Trump means for your pocketbook
But should Trump pursue such a partnership, it's not clear whether there's any practical recourse. The Justice Department would answer to Trump himself. Outside organizations could try legal action, but Eisen said he didn't know exactly what that would look like.
Gross was not sure such remedies even exist.
"If he doesn't care, then I think there's very little that can be done legally" outside of that one constitutional clause, he said. "There's no precedent. I don't know. There's no precedent as to how you would enforce that."
--CNNMoney's David Goldman contributed to this story.
Nike also has "lifetime" deals with NBA greats Michael Jordan and LeBron James. Details about Ronaldo's deal were not released, but the partnership will remain in effect even after he retires.
Nike has paid Jordan over $473 million since 1993, even though he retired in 2003.
 LeBron James gets lifetime Nike deal
"I look at this new contract [as something] for life," Ronaldo said in a video about the deal.
Ronaldo has been sponsored by Nike since 2003, and has worn more than 60 different versions of Nike's Mercurial soccer cleats.
He was already ranked #1 on the Forbes 2016 list of the world's highest paid athletes. The new contract with Real Madrid and the lifetime endorsement from Nike will surely help secure his spot at the top.
Of course, the unspecified bet has already paid off for Icahn, an early and vocal Trump supporter who said he's "thrilled" at the election outcome.
Dow futures had been down nearly 900 points overnight as investors initially freaked out over the inherent uncertainty of a Trump presidency. But calm was soon restored and U.S. stocks are actually in rally mode on Wednesday, with the Dow up almost 300 points.
"I personally don't believe that Trump is bad for the market necessarily," Icahn said.
 Don't panic! Trump win may not be bad for stocks
In fact, Icahn said he believes Trump's anti-establishment mindset and promise to get rid of unneeded regulation could unshackle the U.S. economy. "Now is the first time that I think there is a chance for our economy to come out of this," he said.
Trump had mentioned Icahn's name early in his campaign as a potential Treasury secretary. But Icahn said he's not the "right guy" for the job even though he is enthusiastic about the incoming Trump administration. "I've never worked for anyone in my life," Icahn said, adding that he has a business of his own to focus on.
Icahn, a frequent critic of overregulation, warned against the idea of completely getting rid of new rules placed on Wall Street. For instance, he said he would not support rolling back the post-crisis regulatory framework for banks known as Dodd-Frank.
"You can't let the regulators start running the country," Icahn said. "But you can't have a market that runs amok either. Wall Street ran amok in '08. You need regulation."
Each plant will continue to operate two shifts a day to make the same cars they do now -- but fewer of them.
The company currently has 97,000 U.S. employees, having added about 20,000 jobs since its 2009 bankruptcy reorganization.
The Lordstown plant makes the Cruze sedan. GM also makes a hatchback version of the Cruze at a plant just over the border in Mexico. GM started selling that Mexican-made version of the car in the U.S market with the 2017 model.
 For automakers, 7-year winning streak is coming to an end
President-elect Donald Trump has repeatedly told automakers that, if elected, he intends to impose a 35% tax on cars they build in Mexico for the U.S. market.
GM spokesman Tom Wickham said that the timing of the company's announcement had nothing to do with Tuesday's election, but was instead aimed at giving affected workers the 60-day notice they are legally entitled to.
He added that the company did not announce the layoffs before the election because it did not want to be accused of trying to affect the election results.
 The rich are still buying lots of cars
"There is no connection between the two issues," he said. "Lordstown production adjustment is being made based on the softening car market and outlook for 2017."
Cruze sales are down nearly 20% so far this year in the U.S., primarily because GM decided to cut back on less profitable sales to rental car companies, Wickham said.
Most small car models have seen slumping sales in recent years thanks to low gasoline prices. Sales of the compact Cadillac ATS and the midsize CTS are both off 16% this year, while sales are down 8% the Camaro, which is made at the affected Michigan plant, are down 8%.
But while sales of these models are down for GM, pickup trucks and SUVs, which produce much bigger profits than small cars, continue to sell briskly.
That's an unusually large number of appointees for Trump to nominate. Most presidents usually only get to nominate two Fed leaders because of the way terms are scheduled at the Fed.
Yellen is not expected to step down early, even though she has had to defend herself against Trump's criticism that the Fed is political.
"We do not discuss politics at our meetings, and we do not take politics into account in our decisions," Yellen also said in September.
 Markets welcome Trump's surprising win
All of Trump's four future nominees will have permanent votes on the Fed's powerful, 12-person committee.
"The next president will have an unusual degree of influence over the future composition of the" Fed's committee, Zach Pandl, an economist at Goldman Sachs, wrote in a research note on Monday.
The Fed's committee is considered one of the most influential financial institutions in the world because it takes decisions on America's key interest rates. Those affect global markets, U.S. mortgage rates, credit card debt and bank savings accounts.
Although the Fed is independent, its top positions require presidential nominations, giving Trump immense influence over the direction of the central bank and monetary policy, which in turn impact the U.S. economy.
 Mexican peso hits all-time low
In fact, Trump could have an impact on the Fed's interest rate decision at its next meeting in December, before he even takes over as president. But he can't actually tell Yellen what to do.
However, if markets are roiled over the next few weeks due to the uncertainty surrounding Trump's economic policies, the cautious Fed might nix its projected plans to raise rates in December.
"With this level of uncertainty and this dovish a Fed, I think it would be out of character for the Fed to raise in December," says David Lafferty, chief market strategist at Natixis Global Asset Management.
For now, much of Wall Street -- 71% -- is still betting on a December rate hike.
"We continue to expect the Fed to move rate higher in December," says Drew Matus, an economist at UBS. But "the odds [of a rate hike] are lower as uncertainty is higher."
Construction stocks were widely believed to be potential market winners regardless of who won the election. Clinton and Trump each promised to do more to repair highways and other critical infrastructure.
Caterpillar shares are now up nearly 35% this year, making it the Dow's top gainer for 2016.
But it's not the only Bob the Builder type stock that was rallying Wednesday. (Yes, we can. Didn't President Obama say that too?)
Shares of U.S. Steel (X) skyrocketed nearly 20%, adding to big gains it has enjoyed during the past week and all year long. Nucor (NUE), Steel Dynamics (STLD) and AK Steel (AKS) were all up about 10% as well.
Other companies that could get a boost from potential federal construction contracts also popped on Wednesday.
 Why Donald Trump is wrong about Caterpillar
Construction services firms Emcor (EME) and Jacobs Engineering (JEC) were each up about 7%. Fluor (FLR) and Granite Construction (GVA) both surged around 8%.
Matt Schreiber, president of WBI, a money management firm, said that infrastructure spending could be a hallmark of Trump's administration.
"This would be great for the country, good for markets and good for American workers," he said. "Of course, the question is how to spend for it."
There's the rub. Concerns about how to pay for infrastructure improvements may be one of the main reasons why yields for U.S. Treasury bonds rose Wednesday. Bond rates rise when prices fall -- i.e. when investors are selling bonds.
Bond rating agency Fitch warned in a report Wednesday that concerns about higher infrastructure spending was one reason why Trump's victory could be a negative for the creditworthiness of the United States over the next few years.
But investors in construction equipment stocks paid no mind to those concerns. Still, there was one notable loser in the group -- Mexican cement giant Cemex (CX). Shares of Cemex fell nearly 10%.
The plunge in the Mexican peso after Trump's victory is clearly a big problem for the company.
The harsh reception for Clinton is the latest chapter in the bitter campaign for the White House.
The stock market offered a much warmer welcome on Wednesday for Trump. Shaking off panic selling that rocked global markets overnight, U.S. stocks opened calmly, avoiding the crash many feared. The Dow even rose as much as 200 points after Clinton conceded.
"Despite broad political division in the country, cannabis seems to be the one factor that has drawn universal support," said John Kagia, executive vice president for industry analytics at New Frontier Data. "This has exceeded the expectations of even the most Pollyanna-ish industry participants."
California, Massachusetts, and Nevada approved recreational pot on Tuesday. Maine voters also supported legalization by a slim margin, though opponents have called for a recount. Recreational marijuana is already legal in Colorado, Oregon, Washington, Alaska and Washington, D.C.
Three more states -- Arkansas, Florida and North Dakota -- approved medical marijuana, and voters in Montana removed restrictions blocking the creation of a market there. Medical marijuana was already legal in 26 states.
The four states that legalized recreational weed stand to reap big benefits in sales and taxes.
 How much tax revenue do states get from legal weed?
California alone, the most populous state in the union, could bring in more than $1 billion in annual tax revenue, based on a forecast from the Tax Foundation. But it would take several years to get to that point.
Annual sales of weed in California could reach $7.6 billion by 2020, according to New Frontier Data --$4.3 billion for recreational and $3.3 billion for medical. That matches the $4.3 billion recreational sales estimate from the Tax Foundation.
Medical marijuana has been legal in California for 20 years, and generates about $50 million in annual tax revenue.
In addition, Kagia said legalization will create "income opportunities for businesses that do not touch the plant but serve the needs of the industry," like financial services, security, accounting, transportation and marketing.
 The business of pot
It takes time to establish a market after voters approve marijuana. Colorado voters were the first to legalize recreational marijuana in 2012, but the dispensaries only opened in 2014.
Marijuana is still illegal in the eyes of the federal government. The Drug Enforcement Agency classifies marijuana as a Schedule 1 controlled substance, the same as heroin.
--Correction: An earlier version of this story incorrectly described the relationship between New Frontier Data and Arcview.
Drug and biotech companies have been under attack on Capitol Hill for the past year due to price increases for live-saving drugs like Mylan's EpiPen and Daraprim, an HIV treatment owned by the company that was once run by Pharma Bad Boy Martin Shkreli.
After Trump won, Shkreli even released some previously unreleased tracks from the Wu-Tang Clan album he bought a few years ago.
Many market strategists believe that Trump will not focus as much on high drug prices. Instead, he may seek to undo much of the Affordable Care Act -- aka Obamacare.
"Controlling drug prices won't be a priority for Trump. So his election is a positive for pharma stocks and biotechs. He's more likely to look to make changes to Obamacare," said Amy Kong, senior portfolio manager with Fiduciary Trust Company International.
That's probably the reason why several hospital stocks were plunging Wednesday. HCA (HCA) fell nearly 15%. Tenet Healthcare (THC) and Community Health Systems (CYH) each lost a quarter of their value.
Kong said that a sell-off of this magnitude may be unwarranted though. She thinks it is too soon to tell just what changes are made to the ACA.
Bob Phillips, managing principal of Spectrum Management Group, added that investors may be underestimating the possibility of Trump being critical of drug companies too.
 No Trump crash. Stocks recover from overnight scare and move higher
He noted that Trump is, by his very nature, a populist. And one thing that Democrats and Republicans can both agree on is that increasing the price of a drug by more than 5,000% isn't exactly something to just write off as capitalism at work.
"There will still be a lot of scrutiny on drug prices under Trump since health care costs are rising faster than many other parts of the economy. I'm surprised at this big move higher for pharma and biotech stocks," Phillips said.
Phillips added that controlling health care prices will still be a focus under Trump and that talk of the ACA being completely undone may be more rhetoric than reality.
But David Lafferty, chief market strategist with Natixis Global Asset Management, added that the threat of Clinton cracking down aggressively on drug prices was significant.
That's why he thinks many health care stocks were soaring Wednesday.
"Pharma and bitoech stocks were so beaten up due to political fears. The worries about Clinton are now gone," Lafferty said.
--CNNMoney's Alanna Petroff contributed to this story.
"Whatever the past differences, America has spoken, congratulations & best wishes for your presidency," tweeted the Saudi billionaire, who has several high profile U.S. investments including New York's Plaza Hotel and 5% of Twitter (TWTR, Tech30).
Qatar Airways CEO Akbar Al Baker, who had also criticized Trump for his comments on banning Muslims, congratulated the president-elect on his "well-deserved new leadership position."
 First Hyperloop could be built in Dubai
The U.S. and the Gulf countries have a long history of strong political and economic ties.
"We've dealt with Trump before. He's a very smart businessman and business create jobs," said Sultan Bin Sulayem, chairman and CEO of DP World, one of the world's largest port operators.
"I've never seen him be racist towards Arabs or Muslims in our discussions with him on business."
President elect @realDonaldTrump whatever the past differences, America has spoken, congratulations & best wishes for your presidency.

Setting aside his campaign remarks about Muslims, a Trump presidency carries other risks for the region.
Iran is just beginning to emerge from years of sanctions, and has started to do deals with Western firms. It has contracts to buy Airbus (EADSF) and Boeing (BA) airplanes, and just this week clinched a $2 billion deal with France's Total (TOT) and China's CNPC to develop a huge natural gas field.
 Russia barges in on Iran's oil bromance with India
Tehran is worried that Trump may seek to undermine a 2015 international agreement on its nuclear industry that paved the way for sanctions to be eased significantly earlier this year.
"The U.S. needs to implement what it has agreed to as a multilateral international agreement," Iranian foreign minister Javad Zarif said on Wednesday.
Despite his repeated criticism of the deal with Iran, Trump hasn't given a detailed takedown of its shortcomings or offered an alternative approach.
Global markets were thrown into confusion by Trump's victory. Analysts worry about that he may follow through with campaign promises to ditch global trade deals and impose tariffs on imports from China and Mexico.
Markets in the Middle East were calm, however, with many indexes ending flat. Saudi Arabia and Egypt saw modest gains.
"We will be eager to see how the whole system will work because the leader has sometimes views that are unpredictable from the rest of the world," said Hamad Buamim, the president of the Dubai Chamber and Commerce. "The first six months will be very important... Will he stick with what he promised or will he be more rational."
-- John Defterios contributed to this report.
But it's worth noting that the market was mostly flat Wednesday morning. By way of comparison, major indexes fell about 2% four years ago after President Obama was re-elected.
Global markets are also, for the most part, acting calmly. Japan's Nikkei, one of the first to open as the election results rolled in, did plunge 5%. But market losses in China and Europe were far more muted.
So investors should take a deep breath, relax and put things in perspective.
If any long-term investor panicked and sold after the Black Monday crash in 1987, they'd have missed out on "yuge" gains since then.
Ditto for when stocks cratered in 2000 after the tech bubble imploded.
And they also would have not participated in the big rally that has occurred since March 2009 -- just a few months after Lehman Brothers collapsed and it seemed that the financial word was ending.
John Canally, chief economic strategist with LPL Financial, conceded the Trump win will mean more uncertainty until it becomes clear what he will try to do with regards to trade policies, government spending and future appointees for the Federal Reserve.
 Voters trust Donald Trump to fix the economy
But Canally stressed that long-term investors should not make any significant changes to their portfolio due to the election.
"Don't get your political views twisted with your economic and market views," Canally said. "If Brexit was a 10 on the earthquake scale, this is a 5 or 6. If you remove the names, Republicans winning the White House and Congress is generally market friendly."
Canally said the biggest worry for investors around the world should be just how antagonistic President Trump winds up being to trade partners like Mexico and China.
"Will Trump really rip up trade deals? That is a big concern and it could slow economic growth around the globe," he said.
 America's Brexit? What Trump means for world trade
Canally noted that there could be plenty of potential economic positives from a Trump presidency, such as less regulation, tax cuts and increased infrastructure spending.
And the worst-case scenario for investors has been avoided. This election is truly over. We don't have a repeat of 2000.
"The result is known, and that is great," Canally said.
David Jilek, chief investment strategist at Gateway Investment Advisers, added that Trump's positive tone during his acceptance speech also may have helped to reassure investors.
"We have a robust enough economic system that any continued uncertainty surrounding this election can be tolerated. There is nothing long-term investors should really do differently now that Trump has won," Jilek said.
"Almost all markets have recovered from bigger sell-offs Tuesday night except Mexico," Jilek added, alluding to continued concerns about Trump's stance on immigration and his call to build a wall on the Mexican border of the United States.
So it appears that many investors may be willing to give Trump the benefit of the doubt. He may not be as bombastic as Commander-in-Chief as he was as a candidate.
Along those lines, Thomas Wilson, senior investment manager at Brinker Capital, said the reaction he was getting from clients Tuesday night as election returns were coming in was one of hope and not fear. People were looking for opportunities.
"This is interesting. All the texts and calls I got were about putting cash on the sidelines back to work," Wilson said.
"If Trump is pragmatic and can effectively work with Congress, then that should lead to better growth and higher stock prices," he added. "But that is not a foregone conclusion though."
Trump has praised Vladimir Putin as a strong leader, and the Russian president made it clear that he preferred the Republican candidate over rival Hillary Clinton.
With Trump in the White House, Russian investors are betting that sanctions imposed on Russia over its role in the conflict in Ukraine might be eased.
"Today's market reaction may partly reflect hopes for sanctions to be lifted," said William Jackson, senior emerging markets economist at Capital Economics. "The impact would depend on the extent to which sanctions were removed and whether other major economies followed suit."
 Global markets drop as U.S. election results shock investors

The sanctions, combined with low oil prices, have sent the Russian economy into a tailspin.
The U.S., the EU and other western countries have cut some of Russia's biggest banks and energy firms off from financing. They've also placed an embargo on Russian defense companies and banned some officials from traveling to the U.S.
U.S. officials have also accused Moscow of meddling in the presidential election by leaking hacked Democratic campaign emails to undermine Clinton's candidacy.
Putin was among the first world leaders to congratulate Trump on his victory. Putin said he hopes the pair can "work together to lift Russian-U.S. relations out of the current crisis."
"He [Trump] spoke about resuming and restoring relation with Russia. We understand ... that will be difficult taking into account the current state of degradation of relations between the U.S. and Russia," Putin said on state television.
America's Brexit: What Trump means for world trade

Kirill Dmitriev, the head of Russia's sovereign wealth fund, was also upbeat about Trump's victory. He said a that a Trump presidency "offers more opportunity for global growth."
"We believe that election of President Trump will be positive not only for the Russian market but that worldwide markets will restore quickly and will appreciate pragmatic, growth oriented approach of President Trump," he said.
-- Matthew Chance contributed reporting.
But a sense of relative calm returned to the markets by morning. The rally gathered momentum midday after Hillary Clinton, Wall Street's favored candidate, officially conceded.
Market strategists said the upbeat mood in the markets is due in part to Trump's victory speech, which raised hopes that he will focus on policies that can help the economy and not follow through on some of his extreme campaign positions.
"The selloff last night was an hysterical reaction," said David Bianco, chief U.S. equity strategist at Deutsche Bank. "There are a lot of potentially damaging policies that could be introduced, but we think sober minds will prevail."
Peter Kenny, an independent market strategist, admitted that the market has "greeted Trump with a far more positive footing than I expected. He's receiving a very warm welcome."
 Global markets drop as election results shock investors
Still, it's clear that global markets are on edge. Asian stocks fell sharply, led by a 5% plunge for the Nikkei 225 in Tokyo amid concerns about how Japan's trade-centric economy would weather Trump's anti-trade rhetoric. European markets also slumped initially, before recovering and are mostly in the green now.
The Mexican peso plummeted over 11% at one point to a new all-time low against the U.S. dollar. Top Mexican finance officials said they would take steps to shore up the peso, but failed to lay out concrete details.
Trump's tough talk on trade with Mexico is seen as a direct threat to the Mexican economy, which depends heavily on trade with the U.S.
 Mexican peso plunges to all-time low
Gold, which tends to do well when investors are scared, surged 3% overnight. However, the precious metal eased back ended the day flat, confounding those who predicted a dramatic surge if Trump won.
"This is a bit like Brexit," said Ed Yardeni, president of investment advisory Yardeni Research. "The polls indicated a victory for the status quo. Instead, the vote came out with a radical alternative scenario."
Indeed, just a day before the election, the Dow had roared nearly 400 points after the FBI again cleared Clinton in the email investigation. It was the latest evidence that investors were anticipating a victory from Clinton, who represented more stability than Trump.
"People were not positioned for this and that's going to have some aftershocks," said Michael Block, chief market strategist at Rhino Trading.
That explains the dramatic moves for stocks that were seen as big winners or losers in a Clinton White House. For instance, Wall Street raced on Wednesday to buy up shares of biotech and prison companies -- two industries Clinton had singled out for attack. The iShares Nasdaq Biotechnology ETF  (IBB)soared 9% and drug makers like Shire (SHPG) spiked 9%.
 What President Trump means for your pocketbook
Big banks are also rising amid an uptick in interest rates and on hopes that Trump will follow through with promises to dial back the Dodd-Frank regulatory reform. JPMorgan Chase (JPM) soared nearly 5% and hit a new lifetime high, while Morgan Stanley (MS) surged 7%. Of course, Trump has also called to break up the big banks by bringing back the Glass-Steagall Act.
Defense stocks like Lockheed Martin (LMT) and Raytheon (RTN) are flying high as well, a sign that Wall Street is betting Trump and the GOP-led Congress will ramp up military spending.
Likewise, Trump has promised to spend heavily on rebuilding America's infrastructure. That's great news for construction and materials companies like Caterpillar (CAT) and U.S. Steel (X), both of which enjoyed big market rallies.
Hospital stocks plummeted amid fears Trump will scale back or even repeal Obamacare, which had provided hospitals with a steady stream of customers. Hospital operators HCA Holdings (HCA) and Tenet Healthcare (THC) plunged 11% and 25%, respectively.
Sign up for CNNMoney's morning market newsletter: Before The Bell
Yardeni said Wall Street is anxiously awaiting more clarity on Trump's policy goals, including ones like tax cuts and cutting regulation that could help the economy. He said others like tariffs, trade deals and mass deportation are "harebrained, and hopefully will be scrapped along the way."
The bond markets were also experiencing volatility as Wall Street fretted about how Trump's spending programs could run up the U.S. debt load.
The 10-year Treasury yield, which would normally fall during nervous times in a flight to safety, rose dramatically to a 10-month high of 2.04%. The closely-watched bond rate had been sitting at just 1.85% on Election Day. Longer-term bonds sold off even more, driving the yield of the 30-year up to 2.83%, compared with 2.58% on Election Day.
In another sign of concerns about U.S. debt, Fitch warned on Wednesday that the medium-term impact of Trump's policies "would be negative" for U.S. creditworthiness if implemented in full.
"The rhetoric that was talked about on the campaign trail was pretty scary. The nationalism and protectionism," said Art Hogan, chief market strategist at Wunderlich Securities.
"But there's a big difference between what you say campaigning and what you do as president," Hogan said.
Some 36% think the economy is in excellent or good shape. Hillary Clinton secured 77% of voters who feel this way, compared to 18% for Trump.

When it comes to who would handle the economy better, voters flocked to Trump.
Some 49% of those who went to the polls said he'd do a better job, while 46% selected Clinton.
Trade: America's trade deals were a major issue throughout the campaign, with Trump hammering home that the U.S. has entered into bad agreements that have cost Americans their jobs.
 Trump's 'incredibly misleading' claim on Mexico
And more of the electorate believed him than didn't. Some 42% said trade hurts employment, compared to 38% who said it creates more jobs. Trump secured the support of those who feel negatively about trade by a 65% to 31% divide.
Trade was an important issue for voters in the key Rust Belt states, where Trump campaigned heavily and promised to bring jobs back.
 Trump check: Has NAFTA 'destroyed our country'?
Half of Michigan's electorate feel trade takes away jobs, and these folks supported Trump by a 59% to 36% split. The 31% who think trade creates jobs strongly backed Clinton.
In Ohio, 48% of voters say trade hurts workers, and they lined up for Trump by a more than 2-to-1 margin. The 45% who think it creates jobs or has no effect lined up behind Clinton.
And in Pennsylvania, 53% of the electorate agree that trade is bad for jobs. They heavily favored Trump. Among the 34% who feel trade is a job creator, the reverse was true.
Trump won Pennsylvania and Ohio and is leading in Michigan.
 CNN Election Center
When it comes to their own family's financial situation, only 27% said they are in worse shape compared to four years ago. Not surprisingly, these voters cast their ballots for Trump by a 78% to 19% split.
About four in 10 said their family's finances are in about the same shape. They split evenly between Trump and Clinton. Of the 31% who said their situation is better, 72% voted for Clinton and 24% for Trump.
Obamacare: Nearly half of voters said Obamacare went too far, and these folks flocked to Trump by an 83% to 13% split. Of those who feel it was about right or didn't go far enough, Clinton was the heavy favorite.
Income: Trump's strongest supporters were among those earning $50,000 to $100,000. Half cast ballots for him, compared to 46% who backed Clinton.
Higher income Americans generally favored Trump. Those who earn $100,000 or more were slightly more likely to vote for the Republican candidate, whose tax plan would lower their levies. Voters earning less than $50,000 threw their support to Clinton.
 Trump's tax plan could raise taxes on millions of low- and middle-income families
Not all of the polling data, however, showed Trump on top when it comes to economic issues.
The economy was by far the most important issue for voters when compared to foreign policy, immigration and terrorism. But those who picked the economy as Issue #1 favored Clinton by a 52% to 42% margin.
Here's a rundown on what exactly he said he would do for Americans' pocketbooks. But keep in mind most changes will need an approving nod from Congress.
Taxes: Many people's tax bills are likely to fall under Trump. He plans to lower rates for businesses and individuals, although low-income families may end up paying more. His proposal calls for just three tax rates for people: 12%, 25% and 33%. He would slash businesses taxes to 15% (down from a high of 35%).
The question remains how Trump will pay for his tax cuts. Otherwise, America's debt will grow substantially.
Jobs: Trump has vowed to bring jobs back from Mexico and China. He wants to renegotiate trade deals and use tariffs to force companies like Ford (F) to make more products in the U.S. Experts are skeptical that Trump -- or anyone -- can bring back manufacturing jobs. One study predicted his plans would end up cutting millions of jobs.
Much may depend on Trump's ability to work with Congress to enact tax cuts and increase spending to repair America's roads and bridges. Those measures could boost growth and jobs.
"We will rebuild our infrastructure, which will become second to none," Trump said in his victory address.
 A Trump presidency would benefit these businesses
Stocks: U.S. stocks are down, but it's not a huge selloff. Since World War II, the stock market has performed better when a Democrat is in the White House (9.7% average annual gain) versus a Republican (6.7% average annual gain), although Trump isn't typical.
Trump himself has warned the stock market is in a "big, fat, ugly bubble," and he has been ardent that he wants to replace Janet Yellen as the head of the Federal Reserve.
Health care: Goodbye, Obamacare. Trump campaigned to scrap it and replace it with a more "free market" plan that allows insurers to sell policies across state lines. He says he'll work with a Republican Congress to finalize details, but he wants to allow those who buy health coverage outside of their jobs to deduct their premium costs.
College: Trump vows to hold colleges accountable if they don't lower tuition. He has threatened to take away the tax-exempt status of college endowments. He also wants to forgive student loan debt after 15 years of full payments instead of 20.
 Global markets tank as U.S. election results shock investors
Child care: Making child care affordable was a big pledge of both Trump and Clinton. Trump has proposed letting parents deduct child care costs up to the average in their state for their children's age. He also wants to let new mothers six weeks of maternity leave where they can collect unemployment payments.
Retirement: Don't expect Social Security to change under President Trump. He didn't call for any tweaks on the campaign trail.
Growth: Trump's main proposals to hypercharge economic growth are large tax cuts, scaling back regulations (including Obamacare) and changing U.S. trade relationships. His economic team argues these policies will stimulate growth, but the vast majority of Wall Street experts and independent economists think they could lead to a recession. Much will depend on how far Trump goes on curtailing foreign trade.
--CNNMoney's Jeanne Sahadi, Tami Luhby, Katie Lobosco and Patrick Gillespie contributed to this report.
Even before the vote, about half of the economists surveyed by CNNMoney last week said they believed there will be a recession at some point in the next four years.
The nation's gross domestic product, the broad measure of its economic health, grew only 2% or less in four of the last five quarters. That doesn't leave much room for error in a slowdown. The job market is healthy but is haunted by challenges like a large number of part-time workers and too many people who have been out of work for six months or more.
"Such slow growth necessarily raises the probability of recession," said John Ryding of RDQ Economics, "because the economy is flying much closer to the tree tops."
And now there's Trump. He promises to erect trade barriers and deport millions of immigrants -- policies that could hurt the American economy. Trump has vowed to deliver 4% growth and give a giant boost to jobs. But many economists are deeply skeptical.
 Yes, this is the slowest U.S. recovery since World War II
Beyond those criticisms of Trump's policies, economists worried about how well positioned the U.S. economy was to avoid a downturn in the next four years.
For example, productivity is barely growing, and neither is the size of the population that is working age. Both of those factors have been critical engines of economic growth in the past.
"That's the reason we're having below-trend growth," said Lakshman Achuthan of the Economic Cycle Research Institute. "That (slow productivity and population growth) gives you 1% real growth, and that is basically what the economy is capable of doing over several years."
The good news is that economists interviewed before the election don't see a recession in the immediate future. Nor did they think a downturn would necessarily be as severe as the Great Recession, which lasted from 2007 to 2009 and cost about 9 million jobs.
"It will be milder," said Mark Zandi, chief economist of Moody's Analytics "It won't be the cataclysmic, near-death experience."
 Are you better off than eight years ago?
Conventional wisdom has been that the business cycle prevents expansions from continuing year after year. Indeed, if President-elect Trump avoids a recession for the next four years, it will mark the longest period of sustained growth in the nation's history.
But Zandi, Achuthan and other economists say that an economic expansion doesn't necessarily have a limited shelf life. After all, it's been 25 years since Australia had its last recession.
"I think it's a myth that expansions die of old age," said Fed Chairman Janet Yellin at a press conference late last year. "The fact that this has been quite a long expansion doesn't lead me to believe ... its days are numbered."
But even Yellin concedes that with every year that goes by, the odds that the economy will experience the kind of shock or market imbalance that can start a recession increase.
That's one reason why only two of the 12 postwar presidents -- Lyndon Johnson and Bill Clinton -- avoided a recession at any point during their tenure.
Global trade is stuck in a deep malaise and may even be suffering from "cardiac arrest," researchers at the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development warned recently. The volume of trade between nations even declined in the first quarter of this year.
Britain's vote in June to exit the European Union, its biggest trading partner, delivered a shock to global business. Trump, who said his victory would be "Brexit plus plus plus," could make matters worse on a number of fronts.
 Trump win sparks global market turmoil
Canada and Mexico
Trump has repeatedly blasted NAFTA -- the free trade deal between Canada, Mexico and the U.S. -- claiming it "has destroyed our country." He says he will entirely renegotiate or "terminate" the agreement.
Experts say tearing up NAFTA would be hugely disruptive for all three economies, and it's unclear what the U.S. would gain from doing so.
 'Without NAFTA, we would be out of business'
"It is hard to know what he hopes to achieve," said Paul Ashworth, chief U.S. economist at Capital Economics. He described Trump's main objections as "economic gobbledygook."

 Donald Trump check -- Has NAFTA 'destroyed our country?'
The Pacific and Europe
Two other huge international trade deals negotiated under President Barack Obama are in even greater danger.
Trump has made no secret of his scorn for agreements like the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) and the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership (TTIP).
"TPP and TTIP are dead," Ashworth said.
 Trump myths vs. reality on trade
The TPP -- a deal between the U.S. and 11 other nations dotted around the Pacific Rim -- still hasn't been ratified by Congress. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell said in September the deal has "serious flaws" and "will not be acted upon this year."

There appears to be little chance it will be revived: Trump has called it "terrible" and a "rape" of American workers.
 Has 2016 killed the TPP?
Officials say negotiations are still underway over the TTIP, a planned deal between the U.S. and the 28 members of the EU. But a German official said recently that talks were "de facto dead." France has called for them to be halted.
Experts say it's very unlikely Trump would seek to pursue the deal.
"The election victory of Trump could exacerbate what so far has been a rather restrained trend towards more protectionism in the Western world," said Holger Schmieding, chief economist at Berenberg, a German bank. "The result will be slower potential growth."
China
China, the world's second largest economy, has been a frequent punchbag for Trump.
"We can't continue to allow China to rape our country, and that's what they're doing," he said in May, referring to the fact that China exports much more to the U.S. than the other way round.
Trump has repeatedly accused Beijing of manipulating its currency to make its exports more competitive and has said he wants to hit Chinese goods with a 45% tariff, a move experts warn could start a trade war.
 How China doesn't play fair on trade
"Tariffs are possible further down the line, but won't be the first option," Ashworth said. Trump could lodge a series of complaints against China at the World Trade Organization first.

If Trump does impose high tariffs on merchandise from China, the biggest source of U.S. imports, the impact would be significant.
"I don't think there's any way he can find a replacement," said Jianguang Shen, chief economist at Mizuho Securities Asia. "The replacement must be more expensive -- then inflation will be higher."
 Billionaire: Chinese real estate is 'biggest bubble in history'
Still, some experts think Trump may hold back from some of the threats he made on the campaign trail.
"It is plausible that the new administration will not ramp up tariffs on Mexican and Chinese imports, content instead to bury the prospect of new trade agreements and make more use of enforcement clauses in existing agreements," Standard Life Investments said in a note to clients Wednesday.
 India scraps its two largest rupee notes
"Everyone is facing a difficulty right now," said Pravin, an Uber driver. He was searching for a bank or store that would exchange his three 1,000 and four 500 rupee notes for smaller bills.
"If I don't get money, I won't work today," he said.

The currency move is an attempt to combat corruption and recover "black money," billions in illegal funds often stashed overseas by tax evaders.
For now, it means an incredible 23 billion notes (more than 80% of those in circulation) are now just "pieces of paper," as Modi put it during his speech Tuesday. They will either have to be deposited or exchanged.
That will have to wait till banks reopen on Nov.10, which is when the Reserve Bank of India says it will roll out new higher security 500 and 2,000 rupee notes. The shutdown should allow banks to stock up on the new notes, although ATMs will only have them a day later.
 India's tax dodgers still hiding hundreds of billions
Many were confused by the announcement and the bank closure, even if they recognized Modi's decision could be good for the country.
"It's very difficult, I need to buy food for my kids," said Vijay Kumar, a security guard and father of three. "I need to change these notes, but we don't know what to do. Not everyone has a TV in their homes."
The news went down badly on India's financial markets, which also suffered from the global sell-off triggered by Donald Trump's surprise victory in the U.S. presidential election. The main SENSEX index fell more than 5%.
Modi also faced criticism from P Chidambaram, the country's former finance minister and a member of the opposition Congress Party. In a Wednesday afternoon press conference, Chidambaram expressed "support" for the removal of black money, but questioned the effectiveness of the currency ban.
"Introduction of a new series of notes is estimated to cost between [$2.2 billion] and [$3 billion]," he said. "The economic gains should be equal to that amount."
But Arun Jaitley, the current finance minister, downplayed that figure, calling it "highly exaggerated."
"Once the entire currency is printed the cost would be known," he said.
Dow futures are now off by only about 300 points.
Investors are concerned about Trump's unpredictable nature and anti-trade stance, which could result in global turmoil during his presidency. But there are hopes that President Trump will be different than candidate Trump.
"The first speech by President elect Trump has had a calming effect on the markets," said Kathleen Brooks, a research director at City Index in London. "Trump definitely sounded more presidential than he has done at any stage during the election campaign."
It's worth noting that regardless of which candidate wins, stocks typically sell off the day following an election. Case in point: The S&P 500 dropped just over 5% the day after President Obama was elected in 2008.
Looking abroad, most European markets posted minor declines Wednesday.
Asian markets closed out the day in the red. Tokyo's Nikkei led the declines with a 5.4% loss.
The main Middle Eastern markets also declined by about 1%.
Russia was one of the few winners. Its main market index was rising about 1.5% as investors expect Trump and Russian President Vladimir Putin to form a close relationship.
Before the Bell newsletter: Key market news. In your inbox. Subscribe now!
2. Peso plunge: The Mexican peso is getting clobbered in reaction to the U.S. election results.
At one point overnight, the peso was down as much as 11% versus the U.S. dollar, hitting an all-time low. It's since recovered a bit, but is still down by about 9% in early morning trading.
Mexico's largest trade partner is the U.S. But Trump has attacked Mexico from Day 1 of his campaign and threatened to build a wall between the two countries. The peso is falling hard as traders fret about deteriorating relations between the countries.
3. Seeking a safe haven: Investors typically rush to invest in gold during times of market uncertainty. Today is no exception.
Gold prices rose by 3% as investors bought into the so-called safe haven asset.
The Swiss franc and Japanese yen also got a boost because they are viewed as steady rocks during times of turmoil.
Mining and pharmaceutical stocks were also performing well in Europe.
5. Earnings: The election isn't the only thing that traders will be watching Wednesday.
Viacom (VIA), Energizer (ENR), Tribune Media (TRCO) and Wendy's (WEN) are releasing earnings before the open Wednesday.
Epipen-maker Mylan (MYL) and restaurant chain Shake Shack (SHAK) are set to release earnings after the close.
Download CNN MoneyStream for up-to-the-minute market data and news
6. Coming this week: Wednesday - Viacom (VIAB), Sunoco  (SUN)earnings, Megyn Kelly guest hosts with Kelly Ripa Thursday - Macy's (M) and Disney (DIS) earnings, Singles Day in China Friday - J C Penney (JCP) earnings
 Markets tanks as election results shock world
But the night ended in tears of disbelief.
"What?" students and alumnae shouted at the television screen as Donald Trump took the lead in several key swing states around midnight.
Among the crowd, many women were wearing Clinton's trademark white pantsuits or t-shirts with Clinton's logo or image. One woman came in a full suffragette outfit. Her four-year-old daughter was dressed as Clinton. "Love Trumps Hate" shirts were also popular.
"Nothing comes easy for women. Everything that is worth doing takes work," said Madeleine Albright, former Secretary of State, via Skype to the Wellesley crowd. Albright is a 1959 Wellesley alum and was the first woman to become Secretary of State. Clinton graduated a decade later in 1969.
Women from different generations hugged and comforted each other as the party ended at 1:30 am. Some students talked about looking for jobs abroad when they graduate.
"I'm stunned. I can't believe this is happening," said Roshni Madhu-Sudan, a first-year student. "I had no doubt walking into this room tonight we were going to have the first female president."
Beyond the shock, some were already worried.
"It's crazy we might have a president who validates being racist and being exclusive. And that being hateful is ok," said first year Meha Ahluwalia. Her family is Sikh and she is concerned for their safety, especially the men in her family who wear turbans.
 Women in pantsuits send a message on Election Day
Clinton was college government president at Wellesley. Her graduation speech made headlines when she rebutted a sitting Republican senator who had spoken just before her.
We must strive to make "the art of what appears to be impossible...possible," Clinton said in 1969.
But it wasn't meant to be in 2016.

"The election may not turn out the way we had hoped," said Wellesley President Paula Johnson as the evening ended. But "whatever the result, we stand for justice. We stand for equity."
Win or lose, Clinton's historic run has likely encouraged more young women to enter politics.
"Hillary has been an inspiration to me for my entire life," said Emily Moss, a sophomore who campaigned almost every weekend this fall for Clinton in New Hampshire. "Her resilience is incredibly inspiring."

The Japanese yen, a currency that's seen as a safe haven in times of uncertainty, surged more than 2% against the dollar.
 Global markets tank as U.S. election results shock investors
A strengthening yen is bad news for many Japanese companies and the economy. It hurts exporters by making goods produced in Japan more expensive overseas. And as imports get cheaper, it makes it much harder for Japan to tackle deflation, which has plagued the world's third biggest economy for decades.
The yen is still below the highs against the dollar it reached in the aftermath of Britain's vote in June to leave the European Union. But the emergency meeting suggests Japanese officials are worried it could climb further.
Japan wasn't the only country hit by the election fallout. Other Asian markets dropped, and U.S. stock futures plunged.
Mexico's peso fell more than 10% to its lowest ever level against the dollar. Some of Trump's proposals -- including a wall along the Mexican border and the renegotiation of NAFTA, a key regional trade deal -- have caused particular concerns for the Mexican economy.
-- Yoko Wakatsuki contributed to this report.
"We will take the necessary measures," to support the economy, Mexico's finance minister Jose Antonio Meade, said Wednesday morning. "Mexico is in a position of strength."
The peso declined further against the dollar after the press conference. Mexico's central bank governor, Agustin Carstens, had said last week he had a "contingency plan" in place if Trump won, but his detail-void attempt to reassure markets didn't work.
Economists expect the Bank of Mexico, also known as Banxico, to either hike interest rates or to buy large amounts of pesos to stop the currency from plunging further.
 Live election results and coverage
"The Mexican peso has been hit hardest, it's been the biggest casualty," Neil Shearing, chief emerging market economist at Capital Economics, said of the post-election market reaction.
On Wednesday morning, $1 was worth just more than 20 pesos -- a territory it had never traded at before.
Despite the lack of immediate action, Mexican officials aren't going to wait long, experts say.
"They will react immediately. They won't be sitting on the sidelines for two or three days," said Alberto Ramos, head of Latin America economic research at Goldman Sachs.
Stock markets in Japan and China fell overnight. Trump's anti-trade talk and his unpredictability has led to a great deal of apprehensiveness in the global markets.
 Global markets tank as election shocks investors
But the U.S. is Mexico's largest trade partner. And Trump has attacked Mexico from Day 1 of his campaign.
Trump has proposed slapping tariffs on goods made in Mexico, ending the free trade agreement NAFTA, taxing cash remittances from America to Mexico, and building a wall along the border, which he says Mexico would pay for.
About 30% of Mexico's economy consists of its exports, and almost all of those are sent across the border. Plus, the Mexican economy is already dealing with a litany of headwinds, such as low oil prices and government spending cuts.
Dow futures were down about 300 points early Wednesday morning, or about 1.5%. At their low point on Tuesday night, Dow futures were down more than 900 points.
Nervous investors may have been soothed after Trump called for Americans to unite after the brutal election campaign.
"Trump definitely sounded more presidential than he has done at any stage during the election campaign," Kathleen Brooks, a research director at City Index in London, said of his speech. "In fact, one could argue that this outsider has delivered an establishment-style victory speech."
Most European stock markets are declining, but the losses are not huge. Russia was one of the few winners. Its main market index was rising about 1.5% as investors expect Trump and Russian President Vladimir Putin to form a closer relationship.
Stock indexes across Asia closed the day in the red. Japan's Nikkei plummeted 5.4% and the Hang Seng in Hong Kong fell by 2.2%.
 Live election results
Stock futures began tumbling after 9 p.m. ET as it became clear that Hillary Clinton's chances of winning crucial states such as Florida, North Carolina and Ohio were in serious doubt. She would later lose all three to Trump.
"It is looking like another Brexit-type surprise," said Ryan Detrick, senior market strategist at LPL Financial.
By comparison, the Dow fell 610 points, or 3.4% on June 24 after Britain's shocking vote to leave the European Union.
The U.K.'s FTSE 100 dropped 3.2% the day after the vote. The British pound had one of its biggest one-day declines on record, falling 9% to $1.33, then the lowest it had been since 1985.
Markets have rebounded since then, partially because the weak pound helped support the economy.
The U.S. dollar hasn't been hit as hard as the pound was -- it dropped sharply but then recovered most of its losses Wednesday morning.
While Wall Street is on track for post-election losses, they are not nearly as bad on a percentage basis as those experienced during the 2008 financial crisis when several plunges of greater than 6% occurred.
Wall Street appears to have been caught leaning in the wrong direction before the vote. The Dow raced nearly 400 points on Monday as investors bet that Clinton's chances of winning improved after the FBI cleared her in the email investigation.
Looking south of the border, the Mexican peso has plunged about 9%, though earlier in the night it had crashed by more than 11% to an all-time low.
Trump's anti-Mexico rhetoric has affected the value of the peso for weeks. Trump has talked about renegotiating or even ending NAFTA, the free trade deal between the U.S., Mexico and Canada.
"The Mexican economy is most tied to Donald Trump's criticism of global trade. It really is ground zero of this discussion economically," said Nicholas Colas, chief market strategist at brokerage firm ConvergEx.
Investors are turning to assets that are seen as safer bets in times of uncertainty. For example, gold is surging 2% and the Japanese yen is climbing against all other major currencies.
Crude oil prices were down nearly 4%, but have since recovered nearly all their losses.
-- Alanna Petroff contributed to this report.
Warren draws big crowds and she has heavily campaigned for Hillary Clinton in the weeks leading up to the election. If Clinton wins, and the Democrats win enough seats to control the Senate, Warren's influence is only expected to increase.
 Control of Congress up for grabs Tuesday
She hasn't been shy about taking on big banks and has even ripped into the SEC chief for being ineffective.
Wall Street fears she would have a much bigger say on who gets to run powerful institutions like the Federal Reserve, Treasury Department and the SEC.
"You could very well see a tug to the left on appointments," said Kristina Hooper, U.S. investment strategist at Allianz Global Investors. "Senator Sanders and Senator Warren aren't campaigning for Secretary Clinton for the hell of it. They want to extract their pound of flesh if she is elected."

 Elizabeth Warren's star is rising. Wall Street is worried
That's why Jaret Seiberg, analyst at Cowen & Co., argues that the "fight for control of the Senate may be even more important for financials" than the outcome of the presidential election.
Seiberg argues this is very important for those concerned about overregulation of big banks. He pointed to the immense power wielded by Daniel Tarullo, a Federal Reserve governor, who has pushed for more aggressive regulation on big banks. Seiberg warns that if the GOP loses the Senate, Clinton may be pushed to "nominate those on the more progressive side of Tarullo."
Warren didn't even wait for Election Day to pass before making her negative opinion on SEC boss Mary Jo White clear. Last month, Warren urged Obama to replace White as chairwoman of the powerful SEC and accused her of "ignoring the SEC's core mission of investor protection."
"She hates our industry," Greg Valliere, chief global strategist at Horizon Investments, warned in a recent note. He called Warren a "genuine threat," and cited the fact that she is "electrifying" and "has an army of supporters."
If Trump wins the White House, a Democratic Senate would limit the Republicans' ability to dismantle the Dodd-Frank regulatory regime. Yet a Democratic Senate could also help Trump if he tried to break up the big banks, as the GOP formally endorsed in its 2016 platform under Trump.
 These stocks may be in trouble if Clinton wins
All of this explains why some market strategists believe the U.S. stock market could enjoy only limited gains if Clinton wins but Republicans lose control of the Senate.
Beyond banks, the drug industry is also nervously watching to see the outcome of the Senate race.
First, a Democratic Senate would be more supportive of Clinton's proposals to allow prescription drug importation and let Medicare negotiate directly with pharmaceutical companies. Of course, those proposals would face opposition in the House, if it's still controlled by Republicans as many expect.
However, Wall Street is also worried about the impact on drug prices.
UBS said that many think a Democratic-controlled Senate will "investigate the industry, and push harder for legislation to curtail rapid drug list price inflation."
Drug prices have been a lightning rod for criticism in recent months, especially from the likes of Sanders and other liberal lawmakers. Outrage was on full display earlier this year during the controversy over dramatic price hikes for EpiPens.
"We are clearly disappointed with our performance this year," Thomas Kennedy, Hertz's CFO said on a call with analysts Monday.
 Guaranteed Election Day winner: Steel
Investors were worried about what this meant for other car rental companies. Avis' stock also dropped as much as 18% Tuesday morning, though it didn't report any results.
The gloomy day for car rental companies, particularly Hertz (HTZ), comes amid speculation that ride-sharing services like Uber and Lyft are eating into their business. Ride-sharing serves the same role for some travelers that renting a car would. It can also sometimes be cheaper and be less of a hassle for people who don't want to spend time looking for parking.
Late last year, Uber and Lyft surpassed car rental companies' market share of ground transportation for business travelers, according to a study by Certify, a business expense management company.
Sign up for CNNMoney's morning market newsletter: Before The Bell
Hertz recognizes the power of ride-sharing. It even inked a deal with Uber and Lyft this year to provide rental cars to drivers who don't own a car. It's unclear how effective the collaboration has been.
As for Hertz, the company's stock soared between 2009 and 2014 -- along with many U.S. stocks -- but it's gradually slid down since.
So far this year, Hertz's sales are off about 3% and the company has recorded a net loss of $51 million. At this point last year, it had a net profit of $203 million. Its quarterly profits widely missed analysts' expectations on Monday -- one of the key reasons why Hertz plunged.
The biggest problem for CVS appears to be increased competition from rival Walgreens (WBA), which now owns European pharmacy giant Boots and is also in the process of buying Rite Aid (RAD).
CVS said that it expects to lose more than 40 million prescriptions.
 Canada's top pharmacy chain prepares to sell medical marijuana
CEO Larry Merlo said that some prescriptions have begun "migrating out of our pharmacies this quarter" and that the company is "currently experiencing slowing prescription growth in the overall market."
CVS bought pharmacy benefits manager Caremark a few years ago, a deal that may be backfiring on the company. CVS may be alienating some companies who are worried about how much power it holds in the prescription drug business.
Walgreens has sought to take advantage of those fears. It has partnered with Caremark rival Optum Rx, which is owned by insurance giant UnitedHealth (UNH).
Walgreens also has a strategic alliance with Prime Therapeutics, the mail order unit of more than a dozen Blue Cross and Blue Shield health plans.
Another pharmacy benefits manager, Express Scripts (ESRX), announced at the end of September that Walgreens will replace CVS as the drug store of choice for Tricare, a prescription plan that Express Scripts runs for members of the U.S. military.
 Target misses the mark, warns of weak sales ahead
CVS is trying to diversify its business to deal with these competitive threats. The company has also bought Omnicare, a company that runs pharmacies for nursing homes. CVS also now runs in-store pharmacies at Target. (TGT)
But many analysts believe that CVS has paid too much attention to its pharmacy benefits and mail order businesses -- at the expense of improving its own stores.
CVS said same-store sales at the front end of its pharmacies fell 1% in the quarter. The company blamed weak traffic.
Meanwhile, Walgreens has won raves for investing more in the front end of the store, i.e. beauty care, food, toys and other items.
"CVS is missing out on growth that could be easily attained by a slightly more imaginative approach to its front of store business," said Neil Saunders, CEO of retail research firm Conlumino, in a report.
"We continue to be disappointed that the group cannot see the front of house opportunity," he added.
It's a problem that CVS needs to quickly address before the problem gets worse. Customers aren't the only ones that are unhappy. Investors are annoyed too. The stock is now down more than 25% this year.
It's a great sign that employers want to hire. However, this huge number of openings also signals that employers can't find the workers with the right skills for the open jobs that they have.
The so-called "job skills gap" is a major problem plaguing the U.S. economy, and it's a key issue that the next president will have to tackle. It's one of the many reasons why the economy has been beset by slow growth for years.
It also helps to explain why there are still high numbers of discouraged workers and people working part-time even though they want full-time jobs. Part-time workers are much more likely to live in poverty and live without benefits like health insurance or paid sick leave.
 Guaranteed Election Day winner? Steel
The skills gap is also one of the reasons why U.S. worker productivity has slowed. Experts across the board say job training programs and apprenticeships are a key ingredient to fix the problem.
President Obama has spent a record amount on apprenticeships during his tenure in an attempt to reverse the long-term trend of a decline in apprenticeship programs. White House officials like to call apprenticeships "the other college, except without the debt."
The good news: Both candidates vying for the job opening at the White House have promised to spend more on building new roads, bridges and highways -- jobs that can help plug the skills gap and boost growth.
But those potential savings won't be anywhere near enough to cover for the drop in revenue.
 What happens next after shock court ruling
Britain was facing a budget challenge even before the June referendum on EU membership. But the IFS expects things to get much worse as a result of the Brexit vote, which has created a huge degree of uncertainty about the country's future ties with its biggest trading partner.
The Bank of England, as well as most other economic forecasters, predict growth to be slower and inflation higher than before the U.K. voted to leave the EU.
Tony Blair: U.K. may need a second vote on Brexit
The government will unveil its spending plans in just over two weeks. It has already abandoned its goal of achieving a budget surplus by 2019.
There are still very few details about how the government plans to approach the Brexit negotiations and what kind of trade deal it wants with the EU.
Prime Minister Theresa May said formal talks with the EU will begin before March 2017. That could mean the U.K. will leave the EU in early 2019. But that plan was put in doubt last week, when a high court ruled that members of parliament must be given a say in the process.
Modi said that policy changes had largely failed to root out corruption. Two years ago, he said, India was ranked 100th in terms of global corruption perception, and the country has only improved to 76th.
 India's tax dodgers still hiding hundreds of billions
The idea is that Indians who have stockpiled undeclared income will now be forced to come out of the shadows.
"This step will strengthen the hands of the common man in the fight against corruption, black money and fake currency," said Modi, who leads the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party.
Brilliant Move by @PMOIndia on Demonetisation of current Rs.500 and Rs.1000 notes. Biggest Crackdown on BlackMoney in any Nation's History

But the ban could also spark a mad scramble as ordinary Indians seek to exchange or deposit their cash. Modi said citizens have 50 days to deposit at banks and post offices. Hospitals will be allowed to accept the banned notes for another three days, until Nov. 11.
That transition will not be an easy task. The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) estimates that there are 16.5 billion 500 rupee notes and 6.7 billion 1000 rupee notes currently in circulation. ATMs will be shut on Nov. 9 and 10 to help implement the change.
 India's new central banker serves up surprise interest rate cut
The central bank is also preparing to issue a new series of 500 and 2,000 rupee notes, which are slated to enter circulation by Nov. 10.
Until then, the largest legal bill in circulation will be the 100 rupee note, which is worth only $1.50.
RBI issues ₹2000 note in new series pic.twitter.com/7Ob2j1t6Ab

In a country where taxi drivers and shopkeepers are already reluctant to part with small bills, the sudden policy change could complicate business transactions in the short term.
Indian social media users widely praised the decision, calling it a "bold move." There were also, inevitably, plenty of jokes.
Two Minutes Of Silence For People Who Are Standing In Queue At ATMs Right Now, Having No Clue About The Ban On Rs 500 And Rs 1000 Notes. ;)

Don't worry folks.. winter is coming.. people with rs 500 and rs 1000 notes black money can burn it and stay warm.#IndiaAgainstCorruption

India is believed to have lost out on over $100 billion in uncollected tax, a large percentage of which is illegally stashed offshore.
Only 2% of Indians pay any income tax at all because most people work in the economy's informal sector that includes jobs such as construction laborers and road side food sellers.
Modi also touted the move as an anti-terrorism measure, saying that "enemies across the border have run their operations using fake currency notes," a reference to neighboring Pakistan.
"The 500 and 1,000 rupee notes hoarded by anti-national and anti-social elements will become just worthless pieces of paper," he said.
The gains follow a turbulent stretch for Wall Street.
Market analysts blamed Trump's rising poll numbers for the market's first nine-day losing streak since 1980. But that trend reversed on Monday, with the Dow roaring nearly 400 points after the FBI once again cleared Clinton in the email investigation.
Monday's dramatic rally was the clearest evidence yet that Wall Street feels more comfortable with the idea of Clinton winning than Trump.
It's not a political statement. Rather, the market reaction is a reflection of investors' disdain for uncertainty -- and many fear Trump's unpredictable style and tough talk on trade would bring lots of just that.
"Obviously, stock investors and traders favor Hillary Clinton over Donald Trump because they prefer the known status quo rather than the alternative," Ed Yardeni, president of investment advisory Yardeni Research, wrote in a note on Tuesday.
 Trump win could send gold up 10%
The battle for the White House has also played out in the gold markets. Gold prices, which tend to go up when investors are nervous, rallied last week as Trump's odds of winning the White House seemed to improve. However, gold declined 2% on Monday and dipped 0.4% on Election Day.
No matter what the polls show, history shows that Election Day tends to be a bullish day on Wall Street. The S&P 500 has closed in the green seven of the nine times the markets were open on a presidential Election Day since 1928, according to Bespoke Investment Group. (From 1932 through 1980, the markets were closed on Election Day).
On the other hand, the immediate post-election period is often more nerve-wracking for investors. The S&P 500 has suffered an average decline of nearly 1% the day after the election, according to Bespoke. That includes plunges of 5.3% and 2.4% following President Obama's victories in 2008 and 2012, respectively.
U.S. Steel (X) has surged nearly 160% this year. It's up 7% in just the past week, despite reporting sales and earnings that missed forecasts on November 1. (Cue the obligatory "The Godfather: Part II" reference. "Michael, we're bigger than U.S. Steel.")
Rivals have soared too. AK Steel (AKS) is up 160% as well in 2016. And ArcelorMittal (MT) has nearly doubled this year -- even after factoring in a 7% drop Tuesday because it too reported weaker than expected earnings and lowered its outlook.
Nucor (NUE) and Steel Dynamics (STLD) have also been big hits on Wall Street this year, gaining nearly 30% and 60% respectively.
Investors are betting on stronger demand for steel in the United States for various infrastructure projects -- even though the sector has fallen on hard times over the past few years.
Follow all the election results on CNN
Sales at U.S. Steel have fallen 14% a year, on average, over the past three years. Sales are down at Nucor and ArcelorMittal as well.
Cheaper steel from China has been a problem. Increased competition has hurt profits.
And it's a big reason why some top American steel makers want the Commerce Department to investigate reports of illegal dumping by Chinese steel companies as well as talk that China is avoiding import tariffs by shipping steel through Vietnam.
The issue of Chinese steel has even come up during the election, with Clinton ribbing Trump for using Chinese steel in the construction of some of his many buildings.
 Will Trump bring back jobs? Pennsylvanians aren't so sure
To that end, the United Steelworkers (USW) union endorsed Clinton for president in June.
But Trump has campaigned extensively in states like Pennsylvania, where the steel industry was once king. And his message has resonated with many blue collar workers.
"When I'm president, guess what? Steel is coming back to Pittsburgh!" he told supporters in that city back in April.
Will either Clinton or Trump actually be able to lead a renaissance for steel? That remains to be seen.
But profits for U.S. Steel are expected to rise 8% a year for the next few years. Wall Street doesn't seem to care if voters are "with her" or want to "make America great again." They are clearly betting on a rebound for America's steel giants.
Total (TOT) will operate the South Pars project with a stake of 50.1%. CNPC will own 30% and Iran's Petropars 19.9%.
The first phase will consist of 30 wells and two platforms connected to existing onshore treatment facilities by two pipelines at a cost of about $2 billion.
 Boeing and Airbus get green light to sell planes to Iran
Total's commitment represents the first Western investment in Iran's oil and gas industry since international sanctions were eased at the start of this year. The company said its investment was "in strict compliance with national and international laws."
The lifting of sanctions in January has allowed Iran to pump up its oil output. So far this year, it has increased oil production by about 900,000 barrels per day to 3.7 million.
Its immediate aim is to produce four million barrels per day and it has clear potential to become a much bigger player. The country sits on 9% of the world's proven oil reserves and claims nearly a fifth of the planet's natural gas.
 Inside Iran's giant natural gas complex
The new South Pars project will have production capacity of 1.8 billion cubic feet per day, or 370,000 barrels of oil equivalent. The produced gas will be fed into Iran's gas network.

Years of sanctions left Iran short of the cash it needs to develop its potential. It's hoping to raise $185 billion dollars in investment in the energy sector alone within five years.
But efforts to lure foreign partners had stuttered since the sanctions were lifted.
The U.S. still has restrictions in place that block most American companies from investing in Iran. And Western companies have been reluctant to jump in given doubts over the financing of U.S. dollar-based transactions.
A number of banks outside the U.S. were fined billions of dollars by the U.S. government for breaching guidelines on doing business with Iran before the sanctions were lifted.
Unlike American oil majors, Total is not restricted from signing contracts with Iran, where its operations date back to 1990.
Either way, stocks typically sell off the day following an election -- no matter which candidate wins.
For now, U.S. stock futures are holding steady and trading in European markets is muted.
Asian markets are mostly closing out the day with gains, taking their cue from a standout rally on Monday in the U.S.
Before the Bell newsletter: Key market news. In your inbox. Subscribe now!
2. Stock market movers -- Priceline, ArcelorMittal: Shares in Priceline (PCLN, Tech30) are set to pop when markets open after the company reported better-than-expected earnings on Monday.
Shares in steelmaker ArcelorMittal (AMSYF) are dropping by about 6% in Europe after investors were disappointed by the latest quarterly numbers. The company noted that anti-competitive behavior in the market was a continued concern.
3. Total's energy deal in Iran: French energy giant Total (TOT) has signed a deal with Iran's national oil company to develop the giant South Pars field, the world's largest gas deposit.
Total will have a 50.1% interest in the project. Three other partners are also taking a stake.
The first phase of the project is expected to cost $2 billion.
Iran has ramped up its energy production since the U.S. and other world powers lifted sanctions on the country. But many businesses have been skittish about doing deals with Iran because some sanctions still remain.
Shares in Total are holding steady in European trading.
Download CNN MoneyStream for up-to-the-minute market data and news
4. Earnings: CVS Health (CVS), SeaWorld Entertainment (SEAS) and Valeant Pharmaceuticals (VRX) are releasing their earnings before the open Tuesday, while TripAdvisor (TRIP) is reporting after the close.
5. Coming this week: Tuesday - U.S. presidential election  Wednesday - Viacom (VIAB), Sunoco  (SUN)earnings, Megyn Kelly guest hosts with Kelly Ripa Thursday - Macy's (M) and Disney (DIS) earnings, Singles Day in China Friday - J C Penney (JCP) earnings
Regardless of what's said on the campaign trail, though, many Americans report they are feeling flusher than they did several years ago.
Some 42% of Americans say now is a good time to find a quality job, according to an October Gallup poll. This is a vast improvement from 2011, when it hit a low of 8%. The measure is now just below where it was in the boom times of 2007.
 Trump says 94 million people aren't working - the truth about that number

These sentiments are in line with an upward swing in the job market -- unemployment fell to 4.9% in October, compared to 7.8% when President Obama took office in January, 2009. A total of 10.9 million jobs have been created during his tenure.
So while the economy still ranks as voters' top concern, unemployment has fallen to 7th place, with just 6% citing it as the nation's number one problem, down from a high of 39% in the fall of 2011.
Several Gallup reports point to Americans' improving attitudes about their finances and the economy. Consumer confidence, investor optimism and small business owner confidence have all improved since Obama took office in 2008, said Frank Newport, Gallup's editor-in-chief.
"Americans are overwhelmingly better off than they were eight years ago," Newport said. "There's no question about it."
Of course, the nation was in the midst of a major recession when people went to the polls in 2008, and it was still healing during the 2012 election. Most of Gallup's measures have climbed since then, though they have leveled over the past year or two, Newport said.
 Clinton vs. Trump: Who's better for stocks and jobs?
The economic recovery has put many Americans in a better place. More than two-thirds say they are making more than they were five years ago and only 20% say they are making less, according to an August poll from Gallup.
In 2013, only 58% said they were earning more, and 28% said they were bringing home less.
Median household income had remained fairly flat until 2015, when it jumped 5.2% to $56,516. It marked the first increase in median income since 2007, the year before the Great Recession started.
 What Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton want to do to your tax bill
Workers are also pretty pleased with their jobs, with few saying they feel underemployed. Some 70% said their job is a good match for their skills and training, while only 23% said their position doesn't take advantage of their abilities and knowledge.
More Americans are reporting that they are better off now than they were a year ago, compared to those who felt this way in 2013, according to the New York Federal Reserve's Survey of Consumer Expectations. More also have a positive attitude about the coming year.
The stock market has also soared in recent years, with the S&P 500 Index now above 2100, after plummeting to 735 in February 2009. This has revived many Americans' fortunes.
 Clinton, Trump ... and your cash
Take Ken Dukes, 57. In 2008 and 2009, the freelance computer programmer saw his investments shrink by 50%. But he didn't panic and sell. Instead, he added to his portfolio, which he says has more than doubled since then.
The strong market recovery allowed the Kissimmee, Florida, resident to retire two years ago. He now devotes himself to teaching Sunday school and hobbies, such as programming video games.
"It's nice that my investments and retirement savings are doing well enough so I can retire and do the things I want to do," Dukes said.
According to Smith & Wesson (SWHC), the renaming will not affect the gun's brand, which will remain untouched.
But it does reflect a major shift in the company's priorities.
"We believe that changing our corporate name to American Outdoor Brands Corporation will better reflect our strategic focus on the shooting, hunting, and rugged outdoor markets," Smith & Wesson said.
In other words, the company is shooting to be known for more than just its guns. It also owns other consumer brands like Hooyman and M&P, which manufacture outdoor tools and accessories. But the company insists it's not abandoning its namesake gun unit.
"Changing our name is not intended to diminish the importance of the Smith & Wesson brand in our portfolio," it said in its statement. "Rather, our new name will represent a broader and more inclusive platform."
If stockholders approve the change, the corporation's stock ticker will change from SWHC to AOBC.
There's a "pretty fierce campaign for this" order from Singapore, said one of the people.
At the moment, the Boeing (BA) and Airbus planes exist largely as PowerPoint presentations that are being evaluated by engineers at Singapore Airlines.
Both planes would be the longest twin-aisle jets ever built and the biggest with just two engines. Nose to tail, they'll be nearly the length of a football field.
Airbus' A350-2000 would be nearly 258 feet long and seat 400 passengers. Boeing's 777-10X would be 263 feet and hold 450, in standard arrangements. That's about 30 and 50 passengers more, respectively, than the current largest A350 and 777X jets.
While both jets may earn the title of world's longest, they won't carry the most passengers. The four-engine Airbus A380 has the distinction of being able to hold more passengers than any other airliner, carrying about 550 people on two decks.
Boeing's new design would put it within striking distance of the A380 and even its own iconic 747 jumbo jet. Both have suffered from slow sales and declining production.
Airbus cuts production of A380 super jumbo
And the new 777X would also have the advantage of being able to fit into airports that can't accommodate the A380 and its gargantuan wingspan, while carrying nearly as many passengers.
The 777X wingtips will fold upwards after landing, so the plane will fit into the same gates and use the same taxiways as today's 777s. The wingspan on the A350 is slightly smaller than the 777X. The first model in Boeing's 777X lineup begins flying passengers in 2020. The A350 entered service in 2015.
Additionally, both designs would stretch the fuselages to make room in the cabin for more seats, and move galleys used for food preparation to under the passenger cabin floor.
The current versions of these Airbus and Boeing planes are priced at $355 million and $400 million, respectively, and the new, bigger jets will undoubtedly be more expensive. However, airlines get steep discounts from those published prices.
Singapore is weighing all the attributes of each jet as it decides on which to back. The tricky part for designers at both manufacturers is to make sure that the jets don't get so long that they require more runway to takeoff and land, which would limit where they can fly and how much they can carry.
The longer a jet gets, the more engineers have to account for the increased weight and length. Without more thrust from the engines or added lift from the wings, pilots will require more runway as they accelerate for takeoff.
It might be harder for Airbus to provide enough thrust from its Rolls-Royce engines to accommodate the longer and heavier jet, said Richard Aboulafia, vice president of analysis for the Teal Group consultancy. Airbus and Rolls have already revised the A350's engine once, and the Boeing 777X may already hold an inherent design advantage with the new General Electric engines and larger wingspan, he said.
"We are always working in partnership with Airbus to ensure that the A350...continues to address all airline requirements," a Rolls-Royce spokesman said in a statement.
However, Aboulafia said Airbus does not have big new development plans for after 2017 and could bring the A350-2000 to market sooner than Boeing, which has its lineup planned through 2021.
Airbus CEO vows to to retake jet production crown from Boeing by 2020
Singapore's decision to back one plane or the other doesn't guarantee that either the Boeing or Airbus design will be developed. But an endorsement from Singapore will give the model the credibility a new product needs to help win deals with other airlines. Boeing and Airbus must demonstrate to their boards of directors that they have enough buyer interest before they can begin manufacturing.
"We discuss fleet requirements with manufacturers on a regular basis, and any such discussions are confidential," said Nicholas Ionides, Singapore Airlines vice president of public affairs.
A Boeing spokesman said, "we will continue to study 777X derivatives and seek customer input to develop products that provide the most value for customers," but stressed that no decisions have yet been made.
An Airbus spokesman declined to discuss any ongoing sales campaigns.
Both plane makers have been rolling out the red carpet for Singapore. A year ago, Airbus launched an ultra-long range version of the A350 for Singapore for non-stop flights to New York, and in October, Singapore got Airbus's 10,000th delivery. The airline already has ordered more than 65 A350s. Boeing is set to hand over its even-larger 787-10 Dreamliner first to the carrier in 2018.
The peso could fall as much as 30% Wednesday if Trump wins, according to research firm Capital Economics. The firm says such a steep plunge would force Mexico's central bank to call an emergency meeting the same day.
Trump has already weighed down the peso several times this year, and his restrictive trade policies are expected to hit Mexico hard. On Monday, however, the peso surged after the FBI cleared Hillary Clinton one more time of wrongdoing.
 Mexico has 'contingency plan' if Trump wins
That news hasn't stopped regular Mexicans from worrying about what Trump could mean for their country.
Karla Gasca of Mexico City went to the U.S. embassy on Monday to apply for a travel visa. She believes such visas could be in peril for Mexicans if Trump becomes president.
"He would affect us more -- the economy, the free trade agreements," says Gasca, who works in marketing. "The dollar -- we think it's going to shoot up even more than it already has."
Indeed, Trump has proposed slapping tariffs on goods made in Mexico, ending the free trade agreement NAFTA, taxing cash remittances from America to Mexico, and building a wall along the border, which he says Mexico would pay for.
All those threats have experts forecasting a gloomy outcome for Mexico.
"If he has the ability to implement even 50% of what he's said, it would have a significant impact on the Mexican economy," says Ihab Salib, head of international fixed income at Federated Investors. "With a Trump win, you have all Mexican assets go down."
Mexican officials admitted last week that they have a "contingency plan" for a Trump win, but they haven't released any details.
 Mexico's economy posts worst growth in 2 years
"If the adverse scenario manifests itself, it's possible that Mexican authorities will respond in some way," Mexico's central bank governor Agustin Carstens, told Milenio TV in Mexico last week. "It's a contingency plan that we're talking with the finance minister about."
Experts say that Carstens has two main options if Trump wins: Raising interest rates or selling some of Mexico's U.S. dollar reserves to buy pesos, both of which, in theory, would help ease the peso's fall.
The unease over the outcome of Tuesday's election has spilled into the streets.
"Hopefully, hopefully, [the next U.S. president] improves bilateral relations with our country," Miguel Carrillo, a 30-year old nurse in Mexico City, said with nervous laughter. "The decision that the American people are taking -- hopefully it's the right one so that we can all be beneficiaries."
Is that projection realistic? Other states that have approved non-medical marijuana offer some clues.
 Five states consider legalizing marijuana
Colorado is probably the best example. Voters approved recreational weed there in 2012, the earliest of any state that still has it. And, like California, it already had legal medical marijuana, so there was already a network of medical dispensaries and growers.
Legal recreational weed went on sale in Colorado in 2014, and state economists had great expectations. Analysts projected that the first full fiscal year, through June 2015, would bring in $70 million in tax revenue.
"It was a brand new industry with new challenges, so any estimate was going to be educated guesswork," said Joe Henchman, vice president of state and legal affairs for the Tax Foundation, a nonpartisan tax research group.
But just a few months after legal sales began, tax flow was disappointing, and economists decided they had been too optimistic. So they lowered that estimate to $54.7 million.
They should have waited. Sales picked up. Colorado wound up with $106 million in tax revenue from recreational weed from the first full fiscal year that it was legal.
As it turns out, the market was just getting started. The next year, the state pulled in $163 million.
"It took a little bit longer for the market to fully establish itself than originally projected," said Taylor West, deputy director of the National Cannabis Industry Association.
Colorado is off to an even stronger start in its current fiscal year, which began July 1. The state reported $17.6 million for July and $19 million for August, its two strongest months so far.
Colorado charges a 10% sales tax on pot on top of its regular sales tax. Sellers cover a 15% excise tax, plus application and license fees.
In California, $1 billion a year is the high end of the estimate from the state Legislative Analyst's Office. The low end is the high hundreds of millions.
That forecast is written right into Proposition 64, the ballot item that voters will consider. It's based on cultivation taxes of $9.25 per ounce of buds and $2.75 per ounce of leaves, plus a 15% excise tax.
A billion dollars may seem small compared with California's overall budget of $170 billion. But the revenue is earmarked for a slew of projects, including substance abuse prevention and treatment, cleanup of environmental damage from illegal pot growth, and programs to reduce drunken and stoned driving.
"I'm not trying to scoff at a billion dollars," said Adam Orens, co-founder of the Marijuana Policy Group. "A lot can be done with it. Voters should take that into consideration."

 The business of pot
Recreational marijuana is also on the ballot in Massachusetts, Maine, Arizona and Nevada.
It is already legal in Washington, Oregon, Alaska and Washington, D.C. Two of those states, Washington and Oregon, have been selling legal weed long enough to provide reliable data.
Washington collected $77 million in taxes during its first full fiscal year of recreational legalization, which ended on June 30, according to the Tax Foundation. The current year is projected to bring in at least $270 million in taxes.
 Tourists flock to Colorado to smoke legal weed
Voters were told that legalization would bring in as much as $1.9 billion over five years, said the Tax Foundation, with 40% going to the general fund and the rest going to substance abuse prevention, research education and health care. It remains to be seen whether tax revenue will match that forecast.
Oregon started selling recreational marijuana in late 2015. In the most recent month available, January 2016, it collected about $3.5 million in tax revenue -- triple the expectation, according to the Tax Foundation.
Four states -- Florida, Missouri, Arkansas and North Dakota -- are voting on whether to legalize medical marijuana, which is taxed, but not nearly so much as recreational pot. California brings in about $50 million in annual tax revenue from medical marijuana.
--Correction: An earlier version of this story misspelled the last name of Adam Orens, co-founder of the Marijuana Policy Group.
Actually, it's long been the safe asset to turn to during times of financial stress. And many investors fear a Trump presidency because of his unpredictable nature and the effect he could have on the global economy.
Trump has been a staunch critic of global trade deals. It's one of the reasons why Citigroup warned that U.S. stocks could plunge 3% to 5% immediately following a Trump victory, and Deutsche Bank says European markets could plummet 10%.
 Dow soars 300 points after FBI clears Clinton again
PredictIt, a political betting platform, ran the numbers and found a very strong correlation of 0.81 between Trump's odds of winning and gold prices over the past 60 days. (The closer a correlation is to 1, the tighter the relationship.)
All of this explains why investment bank Societe Generale believes gold prices could enjoy a "knee-jerk rally" to $1,400 an ounce if Trump wins.
"Even higher, is entirely possible," Robin Bhar, head of metals research at SocGen, wrote in a recent report.
Bhar argues that if Trump wins, gold prices would continue to rally, ending the year between $1,450 and $1,500 an ounce.
He pointed to the fact that "Candidate Trump is a wildcard" and the "high possibility of radical change" brought about by a Trump victory. Bhar also cited Trump's promises to ramp up government spending as well as protectionist and isolationist policies that could increase political uncertainty in "global hotspots" like Eastern Europe and Southeast Asia.
Bespoke Investment Group too says that gold would serve as a safe haven if Trump pulls off a win. Gold prices "should surge if Trump wins," Bespoke wrote in a recent report, because a "Trump presidency strikes fear in a large percentage of investors."

Sign up for CNNMoney's morning market newsletter: Before The Bell
Election Day could have an even more pronounced impact on gold miners, which tend to be very sensitive to prices for the yellow metal. Last week, gold miner Newmont Mining (NEM) zoomed 7% higher on Clinton's slumping poll numbers. On Monday, Newmont stock dropped 5% as gold prices reversed course on the latest FBI developments.
Of course, all of this suggests gold could be in trouble late Tuesday or early Wednesday if Trump is deemed the loser.
That's why Helima Croft, RBC Capital's head of commodity strategy, warned in a recent note that gold's recent rise is on "fragile footing."
The lifting of sanctions in January has allowed Iran to pump up its oil output. So far this year, it has increased oil production by about 900,000 barrels per day to 3.7 million.
Its immediate aim is to produce four million barrels per day and it has clear potential to become a much bigger player. The country sits on 9% of the world's proven oil reserve and claims nearly a fifth of the planet's natural gas.

But years of sanctions left it without the cash it needs to develop that potential. It wants to raise $185 billion dollars in investment in the energy sector alone within five years.
Efforts to lure foreign investment dollars have stuttered since the sanctions were lifted.
 Boeing and Airbus get green light to sell planes to Iran
The U.S. still has restrictions in place that block most American companies from investing in Iran. And Western companies have also been reluctant to jump in with doubts lingering over the financing of U.S. dollar-based transactions.
 Iran emerges from the shadows with huge untapped potential
A number of banks outside the U.S. were fined billions of dollars by the U.S. government for breaching guidelines on doing business with Iran before the sanctions were lifted.
Unlike American oil majors, Total is not restricted from signing contracts with Iran, where its operations date back to 1990.

The French company is reportedly close to finaIizing a partnership with China's CNPC and Iran's Petropars to develop the giant South Pars field, the largest gas deposit in the world which Iran shares with Qatar.
Pouyanne said the value of the deal Total is discussing is closer to $2 billion.
 Inside Iran's giant natural gas complex
-- Matt Egan contributed to this article.
I wasn't the only Delhi-walla looking for protection.
When I arrived at Nirvana Being, a small shop in the city's upscale Khan Market that sells anti-pollution products, there were at least 15 people in line to buy face masks. By the time I made my purchase, there were around 20 more.
In depth: Delhi's fight for clean air
"When we opened that store people thought I was nuts," said Jai Dhar Gupta, who heads the store's parent company. "Now we have lines for 10 hours a day."
Gupta declined to share exact sales figures, but he claims to have sold more masks in the past 10 days than he sold all of last year.
It's a scene playing out all over the city -- in pharmacies, electronics stores and anywhere else that sells masks and air filters that might provide relief.

Already notorious because of its toxic air, pollution in Delhi has skyrocketed over the past week. Measurements of dangerous particles taken at the U.S. Embassy in Delhi put the city's Air Quality Index (AQI) at 999 on Monday, off the standard chart, which finishes at the "hazardous" level of 500.
The suffocating smog has reduced visibility in the city to just a few meters, and the Delhi government has closed schools for at least three days.

The dire situation has taken anti-pollution devices and attire from niche to mainstream, with a report by research firm TechSci predicting that the air purifier market in India will go from 40,000 units to 100,000 units over the next year and generate over $200 million in revenue by 2021.
"In all of October, we sold about 50 purifiers," said Jay Kannaiyan, the CEO of Smart Air Filters. "Within the first week of November, we've already sold 500."
Kannaiyan apologized for not getting back to me sooner because his phone has been ringing off the hook. The low-cost masks that he sells for $1 to $3 are also flying off the shelves. In one three-month period last year, he sold 2,000 masks; last week he sold 5,000.
Those who aren't standing in line are going online, with Amazon (AMZN, Tech30) India confirming that it sold three times as many purifiers in October as it did in September, and four times as many compared to the same period last year. For masks, the demand is thirteen times what it was in 2015.
 I live in the world's most polluted city
People are literally lining up to buy masks in Khan Market. #Delhi #pollution pic.twitter.com/Zo4DVsOsC6

Even if business is good for Kannaiyan and Gupta, they're not happy. Both say their main objective is the public good.
"I kind of feel like yelling at these people, because we've been telling you for ages that pollution is a problem in Delhi," said Kannaiyan. "No one's taking any action until it's so severe that now there's an emergency for everyone."

Gupta, who says he's more activist than entrepreneur, bemoaned the "stubborn" and "reactive" political culture that has created the current situation. He said the government's emergency measures feel like far too little, far too late.
"They need to call a curfew and get all the cars off the road," Gupta said. "Nobody knows that we're in a crisis."
My mom, meanwhile, is glad I got my hands on a mask. But she hasn't stopped worrying.
The latest FBI bombshell is clearly being interpreted on Wall Street as a boost to Clinton, the favored candidate of investors.
Investors are essentially "voting" with their money about which candidate they think would be better for the market.
And it's not that investors love Clinton. Markets just hate uncertainty -- and many believe Donald Trump's unpredictability and anti-trade stance could bring lots of uncertainty.
"There's no doubt that the day after the election, there will be less uncertainty if Hillary Clinton wins than if Donald Trump does," said David Kelly, chief global strategist at JPMorgan Funds.
Monday's rally allowed the S&P 500 to recover nearly three-quarters of the ground the market lost during the previous nine-day losing streak, according to Howard Silverblatt of S&P Dow Jones Indices.
 These stocks may be in trouble if Clinton wins
U.S. markets weren't the only ones in rally mode. Asian markets began rising Sunday evening in the hours after the FBI letter was released. European markets closed up by nearly 2% across the board.
In fact, there's a new Deutsche Bank research that predicts the opposite -- a 10% plunge for European stocks if Trump wins on Tuesday.
The Mexican peso, a key proxy for Trump's odds of winning, soared 2% against the U.S. dollar. A Trump win is expected to throw a wrench into U.S.-Mexico trade relations. The candidate has promised to impose tariffs on goods coming in from Mexico and also renegotiate NAFTA, the free trade deal between the two countries and Canada.
 How good were the 10.9 million jobs created under Obama
On the other hand, the latest political turbulence was bad news for gold, which tends to rise when investors are fearful. Gold tumbled 1.8% to $1,279 an ounce, giving back some of its recent Trump-fueled gains. Newmont Mining (NEM), a major gold miner, fell 3% and was one of just 14 stocks in the S&P 500 that lost ground on Monday.
The better mood on Wall Street also caused the closely-watched VIX volatility index to plunge 17% on Monday, its biggest decline since late June.
All of this is a reverse from last week, when nervousness crept back onto Wall Street due to polls suggesting Trump's chances of winning had improved.
"Markets have clearly favored Clinton and feared Trump," Jason Pride, director of investment strategy at Glenmede, wrote in a note to clients.
Sign up for CNNMoney's morning market newsletter: Before The Bell
So why are markets rooting for Clinton?
One big concern is that Trump's anti-trade rhetoric with China, Mexico and others could spark a tit-for-tat rise in tariffs that would rock the fragile global economy.
"If Trump wins and really starts a trade war, even attacking U.S. companies that import goods they manufacture abroad, the consequence could be a recession," Ed Yardeni, president of investment advisory Yardeni Research, wrote in a note on Monday.
That's one reason Citigroup warned clients last week the S&P 500 could plunge 3% to 5% immediately if Trump is elected.
Another big fear: the wildcard nature of Trump himself. Trump's unpredictability may have helped fuel his rise as a politician, but investors worry what it would translate to if he becomes president.
"When push comes to shove, the devil that we know (Clinton) is still preferable to the devil we can't begin to fathom," Michael Block, chief market strategist at Rhino Trading, explained recently.
Of course, Brexit showed that investors don't always read the political tea leaves correctly. Global markets rallied in the days before the U.K. referendum in June amid polls that suggested Britain would vote to remain in the European Union. Yet stocks plummeted around the world after the shocking U.K. vote to leave.
"A lot of assumptions were made going into Brexit -- and they all turned out to be wrong," said Kelly.
European energy companies, in particular, could take a hit from a Trump victory. The Republican nominee has pledged boost both U.S. crude and coal production.
And if Hillary Clinton wins? Deutsche Bank said a Democratic victory could boost European markets by as much as 5%.
"Given that Clinton's policies are much less radical than Trump's and have been communicated more consistently, we expect the current uncertainty premium to be removed from markets in case of a Clinton victory," analysts wrote in the research note.
 A Trump win would sink stocks. What about Clinton?
Recently, stocks have posted gains when the chances of a Clinton win have increased. Monday is just the latest example of this -- stocks around the world jumped up after FBI said Hillary Clinton should not face criminal charges over her personal email server.
Citi said last week it expects the S&P 500 will fall by 3% to 5% immediately if Trump is elected.
"For Indian nationals who frequently come to the U.K., and who fuel growth in both our countries, the entry process will become significantly easier," May said during an official visit to New Delhi.
The new measures should make travel to the U.K. much easier for a small number of Indians. But they will do little to satisfy campaigners who had called for a broad relaxation of limits on the number of visas granted to citizens of India.
 What happens after shock Brexit ruling
Restrictions on foreign students have resulted in a 50% decrease in Indian applications to British universities in recent years, and new eligibility criteria for overseas workers have placed further barriers in front of Indian companies.
May, who helped bring in the rules for students while Home Secretary, does not appear ready to further alter her country's immigration policies, saying that "nine out of 10 visa applications from India are already accepted so I believe we have a good system."
May is trying to ensure that allies like India — the third-largest foreign investor in the U.K. — remain in her corner after Britain voted to leave the European Union in June.
But her reluctance to relax the visa rules could dampen enthusiasm for a potential trade deal between India and a post-Brexit Britain.
 What Brexit Britain wants from India
Even if May does let more Indians into the U.K., it'll only be in exchange for individuals who have overstayed their visas.
"The U.K. will consider further improvements to our visa offer if at the same time we can step up the speed and volume of returns of Indians with no right to remain in the U.K.," she said.
Investors are selling out of government bonds, with U.S. and Australian bonds feeling the biggest impact. And the Mexican peso is surging.
Comey said more than a week ago that the FBI was looking into new emails as part of its investigation into Clinton's personal server. This contributed to a nine-day losing streak for the S&P 500 -- its longest since 1980.
Before the Bell newsletter: Key market news. In your inbox. Subscribe now!
2. China's finance minister gets booted: China has removed a top official who played an important role in trying to reform the country's debt-laden economy for the past three years.
In a statement, the government said Finance Minister Lou Jiwei will be replaced by Xiao Jie, a former tax chief. No reason was given for the change, and the statement didn't say what Lou might do next.
Lou, 65, held the job during a turbulent period for China's economy, which is growing at its slowest pace in 25 years. He is credited with helping efforts to tackle the mountain of debt accumulated by local governments in China.
3. More trouble for Volkswagen: German prosecutors have expanded an investigation into the Volkswagen (VLKAY) emissions cheating scandal to include the automaker's chairman, Hans Dieter Potsch.
Potsch was the company's chief financial officer when the scandal erupted late last year. He became chairman soon afterward.
The German carmaker has admitted that it fitted as many as 11 million diesel vehicles worldwide with software that could cheat nitrogen oxide emissions tests. But it only came forward after the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency alerted the world to the issue.
Shares in Volkswagen are rising a bit Monday, but the gains are not enough to keep up with the rest of the market.
4. Market movers -- Crude oil, HSBC, Ryanair: Crude oil futures are rising by about 2% to trade around $45 per barrel. Traders expect the world's biggest oil producers -- including Russia -- will keep a lid on their production to ensure the market isn't flooded with excess crude.
Shares in HSBC (HSBC) and Ryanair (RYAAY) are soaring in London trading after both companies reported well received quarterly results.
5. Earnings: Ferrari (RACE) and Sotheby's (BID) are the key companies reporting quarterly results before the open.
Marriott (MAR), News Corp (NWS) and Priceline (PCLN, Tech30) are reporting after trading closes.
Download CNN MoneyStream for up-to-the-minute market data and news
6. Coming this week:  Monday - News Corp (NWS) and Marriott (MAR) earnings Tuesday - U.S. presidential election  Wednesday - Viacom (VIAB), Sunoco  (SUN)earnings, Megyn Kelly guest hosts with Kelly Ripa Thursday - Macy's (M) and Disney (DIS) earnings, Happy Singles Day in China! Friday - J C Penney (JCP) earnings
His replacement, Xiao, is believed to have close ties to Chinese Premier Li Keqiang, whose job has significant influence on how the economy is run.

There has been speculation this year that China's powerful president, Xi Jinping, has reduced Li's role in economic management.
But this appointment "dispels the idea that Xi Jinping is trying to sideline the influence of Li Keqiang," said Julian Evans-Pritchard, China economist at Capital Economics.
Economists say Xiao, 59, isn't expected to usher in a major policy shift.
 Chinese finance minister says Donald Trump 'is an irrational type'
"He was leading up tax reform, and was also involved with fiscal reform that Lou Jiwei was pushing for," Evans-Pritchard said.
Xiao is also linked to President Xi's widely publicized push to raise national housing taxes, said Brian Jackson, senior economist with IHS Markit.
Only two trial areas, Shanghai and Chongqing, currently pay national housing taxes. Xiao implemented both of those trials when he was China's tax chief.
 China's economy holds steady -- but for how long?
As finance minister, he will play a bigger role on the international stage. Lou locked horns earlier this year with U.S. Treasury Secretary Jack Lew on the thorny issue of Chinese steel production.
He also got drawn into commenting on the U.S. presidential election, telling the Wall Street Journal in April that Donald Trump is "an irrational type."
-- Yuli Yang contributed to this report.
The German carmaker has admitted that it fitted as many as 11 million diesel vehicles worldwide with software that could cheat nitrogen oxide emissions tests. But it only came forward after the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency alerted the world to the issue.
About 40% of the company's market value was wiped out when the scandal broke.
 Volkswagen faces $9 billion legal headache
In June, German prosecutors said they were investigating former Volkswagen CEO Martin Winterkorn on suspicion of manipulating the market in the company's shares. They said they were probing claims that the company should have come clean sooner about the possible financial costs of the scandal.
Now Potsch and another supervisory board member, who was not identified by name, are also under scrutiny in the investigation, Volkswagen said in a statement Sunday.
"The company reaffirms its belief that the Volkswagen board of management duly fulfilled its disclosure obligation under German capital markets law," it said, adding that Potsch and the automaker "will continue to give the inquiries by the public prosecutor's office their full support."
The German probe is just one of several legal headaches facing the carmaker, which reached a $14.7 billion settlement with U.S. authorities in June. Investors are demanding more than $9 billion in damages for the losses they sustained as a result of the scandal.
The affected Volkswagen cars had software installed that strictly limited emissions when the cars were being tested, then dumped up to 40 times the allowable levels of some pollutants when on the road.
 S&P 500 falls for 9th straight day
Investors have generally been worried about the prospect of a Donald Trump victory. They are concerned about his restrictive stance on trade policies and his unpredictability. Clinton is seen as less of a risk.
Stocks, a risky asset, had suffered recently in favor of safer holdings as polls showed a tightening presidential race.
The mood changed after the new FBI announcement.
"Safe havens had attracted inflows for the bulk of last week, and today saw a quick reversal of those trends," Matt Simpson, a senior market analyst for ThinkMarkets, said Monday.
The Japanese yen, which is seen as a low risk investment in times of uncertainty, plunged more than 1% against the dollar Monday. Gold also dropped.
 Citigroup says a Trump win would cause immediate stock drop
Riskier assets surged. Japan's Nikkei rose 1.6% and Australian stocks added 1.3%.
In Europe, major stock markets began the day with similar gains. And U.S. stock futures also indicated a positive start, with the S&P and Dow both expected to open up 1.3%.
Citigroup on Friday predicted that a victory for Trump could send the S&P 500 plunging 3% to 5%. A Clinton win wouldn't move stocks significantly, it said.
The Mexican peso, which acts as a key indicator of how markets think Trump is faring, leaped 2%. In recent weeks, the peso has been moving in the opposite direction to Trump's poll numbers.
Trump's proposals -- including a wall along the Mexican border and the renegotiation of NAFTA, a key regional trade deal -- have caused particular concerns for the Mexican economy.
"Let's each embrace the universal virtues of respect and dignity, refusing to allow the hatred on cable news, the ugliness of our politics, and the lack of political role models for our kids to define us and to dictate how we treat each other," Schultz wrote.
 Starbucks CEO Howard Schultz endorses Hillary Clinton
Schultz, who calls himself a "life-long Democrat," endorsed Clinton during an interview with CNN's Poppy Harlow in September. The executive had previously endorsed Barack Obama in 2008 and 2012.
Online records show he has only donated to Democrats, except for a donation to Republican Senator John McCain in the late 1990s.
Schultz also did not discount the possibility of his own presidential run. He told CNN in September that he would "never say never, but this is not the right time."
Starbucks (SBUX) recently launched a new initiative countering the "divisiveness and cynicism currently fueling our national discourse."
The company released a series of videos and stories this year called "Upstanders" that focuses on moments of humanity in the country.
And last week, Starbucks rolled out a limited edition green "unity" cup to its stores.
"Like the drawing of so many faces with a single, unbroken line on this season's green unity cup," Schultz wrote in his Sunday letter, "we are all connected."
-- CNNMoney's Poppy Harlow and Heather Long contributed to this story.
But Wanderer is part of a secret weapon for Clinton. She isn't just a supporter, she's known Clinton personally for 50 years. They were classmates at Wellesley College, an all-women's college outside Boston with numerous glass-ceiling breakers among its graduates: Former Secretary of State Madeleine Albright; newscaster Diane Sawyer; the first female partner of Goldman Sachs (GS), Jeanette Loeb; and Apple (AAPL, Tech30) board member Susan Wagner.
"I've heard a lot of people say they were on the fence about Clinton, but when they heard from someone who really knew her, they were willing to go with it," Wanderer told CNNMoney.
There are about 6,000 members of the Wellesley Women for Hillary group. They don't just see Clinton as a candidate -- she's their friend and "sister." They refer to her as "Hillary." When they talk to undecided voters, they push back on the idea that Clinton is cold or aloof.

'Hillary unfiltered'
"When you see Hillary unfiltered, then you have a sense of her compassion, her genuineness and her convictions," says Susan Esserman, one of the co-founders of Wellesley Women for Hillary and a member of the class of 1974.
Clinton's fellow Wellesley alums have organized numerous "action days" where hundreds of women register voters, knock on doors, make calls and donate. Laurelle Cheng, a 2015 Wellesley graduate, designed and sold about 1,000 t-shirts that say "Wellesley for Hillary" and "Hillary 2016." All proceeds go to the campaign.
But their biggest contribution is talking to voters about the "Hillary I know." Esserman, a partner at a law firm, hosted a fundraiser for Clinton at her home in Bethesda, Maryland, in September 2015.
"Some skeptical men came to this event. It blew them away seeing her in person," Esserman recalls. Clinton "took time and said hello to each person," including children.
 In Florida, it's retirees versus Latinos
Clinton's Wellesley strength
The Wellesley campaigners have become such a force that Clinton regularly acknowledges them on the campaign trail. Last month, she wrote a "long personal note" to her Wellesley political science professor and mentor Alan Schechter.
"The reason why Hillary is so loyal to Wellesley is because she feels the college did so much for her," says Schechter, now 80. "She always thanks me for my continuing support."
On a call with her Wellesley supports on October 20, she said: "I am proud to be one of you."
Two days later, at a rally in Philadelphia, her running mater Tim Kaine joked he was tired and losing his voice after only 100 days on the campaign trail. But Clinton is standing strong, he said, "because she's a Wellesley woman."

Clinton's famous 1969 speech
When people ask about Clinton, Wanderer often tells the story of their Wellesley graduation day in the spring of 1969. America was in the midst of the Vietnam War and the Civil Rights movement.
She and Clinton both served on student government (Clinton as president). They pushed for many changes on campus, including ending curfews, allowing men to set foot in the dorms (beyond Sunday afternoons) and having a student speaker at graduation.
Hillary Rodham, as she was known then, became the first student speaker. Her speech made headlines across the country, including a mention in Life Magazine because she rebuked the remarks of a Republican senator who spoke just before her. He had tried to dissuade students from protests.
"We feel that for too long our leaders have viewed politics as the art of the possible. And the challenge now is to practice politics as the art of making what appears to be impossible possible," Clinton said.

"She threw away her prepared remarks and took on a sitting U.S. senator," says Betty Hutcheon, another 1969 classmate, who has been canvassing for Clinton every weekend since September. "It was awe inspiring for someone my age."
Wanderer recalls the class of 1969 giving Clinton a standing ovation lasting for minutes. Her grandfather met her after the ceremony and immediately said, "Who was that?"
"Out of my mouth came these words, 'Take a look at her. She's going to be president of the United States one day,'" says Wanderer.
2. A big day for marijuana: Five states will be voting on whether to legalize marijuana for recreational purposes, while four states will be voting on legalization for medical purposes.
As of right now, Alaska, Colorado, Oregon and Washington have legalized medical and recreational marijuana. But on Tuesday, Arizona, California, Maine, Massachusetts and Nevada will be voting on legalizing for recreational use while Florida, Missouri, Arkansas and North Dakota will be voting for medial purposes.
Even if more states legalize pot, there's a chance banks will push back on handling finances from marijuana businesses due to current federal banking laws.
3. Megyn Kelly guest hosts 'Live with Kelly': On Wednesday, Megyn Kelly will appear on the morning show hosted by Kelly Ripa to discuss how movies have portrayed women as presidents.
The Fox News anchor has challenged Trump on his comments about women and is now on the market as her contract nears the end. She also has an upcoming book that will include details about Ailes' repeated sexual advances towards her.
4. Web Summit 2016 held in Lisbon: The annual event on Monday is a conference where all the biggest startups will talk about the changing tech space.
Representatives from Square, Tinder, Cisco and Facebook will attend.
5. Coming this week:
Monday - HSBC (HSBC), News Corp (NWS) earnings
Tuesday - U.S. presidential election
Wednesday - Viacom (VIAB), Sunoco  (SUN)earnings, Megyn Kelly guest hosts with Kelly Ripa
Thursday - Macy's (M) and Disney (DIS) earnings, Happy Singles Day in China!
Friday - J C Penney (JCP) earnings
While there is no federal law requiring workers get time off to vote, state laws vary on what's required. For instance, some offer paid leave for a set amount of time to vote. Others offer unpaid leave and some require workers give adequate notice before taking leave to vote.
Local laws can also regulate time off on Election Day.
 Civil rights groups brace for 'chaotic election'
A campaign started earlier this year called "Take Off Election Day" has encouraged companies to give workers time off to cast their ballots.
Ford sent out an email to workers on Thursday encouraging them to vote and telling them: "Every. Vote. Counts."
San Francisco-based Square said it is closing for the day because it believes voting should be "inclusive, easy, and accessible"
"We're hopeful that Election Day will soon be a national holiday," a company spokesperson said in an email to CNNMoney.
 Extreme fear is back on Wall Street. Blame the election
Publishing giant Hearst is offering the day off to workers in its non-news operations -- a tradition that goes back more than 100 years.
"WR Hearst, who won election to the U.S. House of Representatives in 1902 and 1904, began the tradition of encouraging his employees to exercise their right to vote with a day off beginning in the early days of our company," a company spokesman said in an email to CNNMoney. "After 129 years, we continue the tradition of our founder and on Tuesday, we will get out the vote."
This is the first year that Thrillist will be closed on Election Day. "It has certainty raised more awareness within our employees that voting is really important," said Marjorie Ajero, vice president of Human Resources. "I think a lot of employees are proud we have the day off."
 Starbucks says whole world is nervous about election
Outdoor clothing company Patagonia is closing all its retail stores, its headquarters in California and distribution center in Nevada to allow all U.S. workers to get out and vote and volunteer.
Signs in store windows on Tuesday will explain the closure, and online shoppers will get a note encouraging them to vote and let them know they can still place orders, but they won't be filled until the next day.
"As a business, we have a unique ability to take a stand and choose to prioritize the health of the planet over profit, and I think it's important we take that opportunity when it truly matters," said Patagonia CEO Rose Marcario in a statement posted last month.
Other companies are remaining open, but will be more flexible with their paid leave to allow adequate time to vote.
Organizing app Evernote will have a "meeting free morning" on Election Day to give workers time to vote, and TaskRabbit is giving workers two hours of paid leave to vote.
Food delivery company DoorDash is giving its 250 full-time workers, "as much time off as they need to go and vote," according to company spokesman Eitan Bencuya. That means workers could take an hour off or the entire day off if they want to volunteer at the polls.
"People have been excited about it. Obviously this election is an important one and something a lot of people are thinking about," said Bencuya. "People want to participate in the democratic process and make their voices heard."
No details of the contingency plan have been announced, but it's clear that Trump is seen as a major threat to Mexico.
He has threatened to slap a 35% tariff on goods made by U.S. companies in Mexico and sold in the United States. Exports make up one third of Mexico's economy and almost all of them go to America.
Trump claims he will tear up NAFTA, the free trade deal between Canada, Mexico and America if it isn't renegotiated. And he wants to build a wall on the U.S.-Mexico border that he claims Mexico will pay for. (Mexico's president says Mexico won't pay for it).
"It's a lose-lose proposition," Arturo Sarukhan, the former Mexican ambassador to the U.S., told CNN Friday. "The only losers will be the American and the Mexican peoples."
Trump's negative rhetoric is already hurting Mexico's currency, the peso. It's down 9% this year, partially due to Trump. Whenever Trump's poll numbers have improved this year, the peso has gone down.
 Mexico posts worst growth in 2 years
A weakening currency is not all bad news: it makes Mexico's exports more affordable -- and attractive -- to foreign buyers, and when Mexicans send money home to loved ones, they're getting more and more pesos.
Still, Mexico's economy is slowing down for other reasons right now. Low oil prices and government spending cuts were major reasons why Mexico posted its worst quarter of annual growth in two years on Monday.
And the peso's downturn is a sign that things would get much worse if Trump wins on Tuesday. Analysts predict that if Trump wins there would be a major sell-off in the peso, which would deeply hurt the country's struggling economy.
Ending NAFTA or slapping tariffs on Ford cars wouldn't be good for America either, trade experts say. According to the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, 6 million U.S. jobs depend on trade with Mexico.
Now Mexican officials endure the calm before a potential storm.
"We hope we don't have to use," the contingency plan, Carstens told Milenio TV.
Short answer is, Yes, but it's not nearly as bad as it sounds. To see how it all breaks down, CNNMoney got the numbers for the most recent quarter from the Atlanta Federal Reserve.
All Americans 16 years old and up: 253.9 million
Americans in the labor force with a job: 152.1 million
Americans in the labor force without a job: 8.0 million
That leaves 93.8 million Americans not in the labor force. But a lot of them are not in the labor force for understandable reasons.
44.0 million are retired.
15.3 million are disabled.
13.3 million are taking care of a family member.
13.2 million are in college or job training.
So: of the 93.8 million Americans not working, 85.8 million are retired, disabled, taking care of a loved one, or in school.
That leaves 8 million people - what about them?
5.9 million Americans have looked for a job in the past year OR want a job but have given up searching for over a year.
2.1 million Americans are in the shadows. We don't know why they are not in the work force.
Gulfstream's new $54 million jet: Here's what you get
When it begins flying  in the second half of 2018, it will cruise as high as 51,000 feet and dash at 92.5% of the speed of sound and seat up to 17. Each one costs $72.8 million.
Bombardier says the jet will fly as far as 7,400 nautical miles at a slower speed in a single stretch with eight passengers and four crew aboard. That's enough to connect New York with Shanghai or London with Buenos Aires, and it's as far as a much-larger Boeing or Airbus airliner can fly with 300 passengers.
The current-generation of Global jets that Bombardier makes is the company's single biggest revenue generator for its aerospace division. However, production in its factories and at its rivals have been falling amid political and economic woes in Russia, China, the Middle East and South America.
Bombardier hopes the Global 7000 will stimulate demand and represent a cash-cow for the plane maker.
Bombardier, U.S. rival Gulfstream and France's Dassault are fighting for well-heeled buyers of the biggest business jets.
Dassault delivered its first Falcon 8X last month and Savannah, Georgia-based Gulfstream has been pumping out its G650 since 2012. That model and an extended range sibling can fly 7,500 nautical miles non-stop. Both compete with Bombardier's Global.
In fact, over the nine-day period, the S&P 500 only fell by 3.07%.
Compared with that, the S&P 500 fell a lot more in December 1980 -- 9.4% -- over the course of nine days, according to Howard Silverblatt, senior index analyst at S&P Dow Jones Indices.
Silverblatt said "the slow downward momentum is due to uncertainty."
 Brokers crack down on risky trades ahead of election
The market has been reacting to a tightening presidential race. CNN's latest electoral map still shows Clinton as the likely winner, but is slightly more favorable to Trump than earlier projections.
A report from Bespoke Investment Group noted that "a Trump presidency strikes fear in a large percentage of investors" because of the unpredictability of the candidate. And Citigroup on Friday predicted that a victory for Trump could send the S&P 500 plunging 3% to 5%.
 These stocks may be trouble if Clinton wins
But fear of a Trump presidency isn't the only thing putting investors on edge. A UBS report found that certain industries, including banking, pharmaceuticals and energy, could take a hit if Clinton is elected.
--CNNMoney's Matt Egan and Heather Long contributed to this report.
But a recent UBS report warns that the first female U.S. president could also spell trouble, specifically for the following industries:
Pharma/Biotech: Clinton has long been a thorn in the side of the healthcare industry. The biggest concern among investors is Clinton's promise to crack down on rising drug prices, especially the recent instances that have caught public attention (see: Daraprim, EpiPen). Clinton has also proposed allowing Medicare to negotiate directly with drug makers because it would likely cut into profits.
Food, beverage & tobacco: Watch out for tougher rules if the Democrats have a very good night on Tuesday. UBS warns that a Clinton White House backed by a Democratic Congress could fuel more aggressive regulation of tobacco, food and beverage companies due to health concerns.
Energy: Not only have Democrats pushed to help cleaner energy alternatives like solar and wind, but there's the threat of tougher regulation, especially compared with Trump's promise to roll back rules. Some fear a ban or threatened ban of fracking. Clinton also infamously said, "We're going to put a lot of coal miners and coal companies out of business."
Banks: The worst-case scenario would be a Democratic sweep, which UBS said would allow liberals to "push for bank break-ups" and more regulation. Even if the Democrats only win the Senate, that would still give big-bank critic Elizabeth Warren a say on appointments to lead powerful watchdogs like the SEC and Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.
For each of these industries, UBS said that the biggest caveat is if the Republicans retain control Congress. Then the effect would be "neutral," because it would offer more of the status quo.

 Extreme fear is back on Wall Street. Blame the election
A Trump victory also leaves some specific industries more vulnerable to Republican policy proposals.
Medical insurers: A President Trump means that struggling Obamacare would not receive support like the Medicaid expansion Clinton has called for. Already-hurting insurers could be pressured further if Trump and the Republicans are able to repeal Obamacare or even eliminate the health exchanges and/or limit Medicaid coverage.
Drug retailers: All of the Obamacare uncertainty would be bad news for drugstores. UBS said it would be a "negative" for this group if Obamacare is repealed and no substitute coverage is provided.
Autos: Trump has promised to slap a 35% tax on Ford's (F) cars that are made in Mexico and sold in the U.S. UBS warns that such tariffs would be bad news for auto makers that "source some vehicles sold in the U.S. from Mexico."
The same is true of Trump's plans to renegotiate or terminate NAFTA, the free trade deal that allows Ford and others to ship cars duty-free across borders. These concerns have already put downward pressure on shares of Kansas City Southern (KSU), a railroad company that ships lots of goods (including cars) between the U.S. and Mexico.
The U.S. has had the longest streak of job growth under Obama. For 73 straight months, the U.S. has added jobs. But as CNNMoney has pointed out before, the total job gains under Obama are far fewer than under Presidents Reagan and Clinton. The question is, how good are those jobs?
All the net job gains under President Obama have been in the private sector. Government jobs have actually declined by 341,000 since February 2009 (the first full month Obama was in office). That said, the government jobs that were lost were all at the state and local level.
 President Obama is taking credit for creating 15 million jobs
Disappearing manufacturing jobs have been a dominant issue on the campaign trail. Overall, manufacturing jobs have declined 122,000 since February 2009. But some blue collar jobs are growing, such as construction.
The bottom line is: Almost all of the job gains under President Obama have been in so-called service jobs, such as those in Silicon Valley and consulting. Others are the low-end jobs, toiling in stores and restaurants.
 This stock market test points to a Trump win
President Obama has been great for the health care sector. Nearly 2.9 million job gains have come in the health care sector alone. It's a mixed bag in terms of "good jobs." Doctors, dentists and nurses are typically paid well, but home health aides aren't.
A scan across the other big job creators reveals a similar story: There's been a 1.4 million surge in "professional services" (aka white-collar jobs in offices) that pay well. On the other hand, administrative assistants and restaurant jobs that tend to pay poorly have also grown a lot.
 Key model predicts big election win for Clinton
The industries that shed jobs under President Obama read like a who's who list of sectors in decline because of the Internet and smartphone era. Department stores have lost 151,000 jobs as people move to shop more online. The U.S. postal service has also seen a 112,000 employment drop.
State and local governments shed 361,000 jobs, and manufacturing and telephone related jobs have also been on the decline.
The typical middle class income in the U.S. is just over $56,000 a year. Economist Joseph Brusuelas of RSM, an accounting and audit firm, has taken a close look at jobs added in the Obama economy. He defines "high wage" as a job that has a median salary of $58,000 or more a year (so just above the median income).
Yes, there are a lot of assumptions that go into a calculation like this. For example, earning $58,000 in Cleveland takes you a lot further than earning the same amount in New York or San Francisco. But it's a reasonable assessment of how good the jobs are are under the Obama economy.
Brusuelas found that 47% of the jobs created since January 2010 (he argues that's when you start to see the effects of Obama's policies) have been in the high-wage category.
Karex hopes to raise production to 7 billion per year by the end of 2017. Its products are in more demand than ever, says Goh, amid government campaigns encouraging birth control and preventing the spread of the Zika virus and HIV/AIDS.
"Today the younger generations are a lot more [open to using] condoms than the generation before," said Goh, now the company's CEO.

Karex's products bring in $82 million annually and reach 120 countries.
China, Brazil, Nigeria and the U.S. are its biggest markets, but exporting 90% of its product worldwide also creates problems. Different countries have different regulatory bodies that monitor and approve condoms, so Karex must maintain multiple licenses and accreditations.
Starting out in 1989, Karex built its business around manufacturing condoms for consumer brands, health ministries and health NGOs, as well as making condoms for its own brands, Carex and INNO, which are mainly exported to the Middle East. This year, it's been on something of a shopping spree, buying U.K. condom-maker Pasante, U.S. brand ONE, and custom-fit condom manufacturer TheyFit.

Karex also designs and develops its own manufacturing machines, which Goh said allows the company to better customize its products.
"I always say that condoms are like jeans," said Goh. "You have your skinny fit ... your straight cut [and] relaxed cuts."
Customer concerns have changed a lot in 100 years, Goh added.
The condom "started as a medical contraceptive," he said. "In the '80s and '90s, it was more of a safety device."
Now, consumers take for granted that condoms are effective, and the marketing emphasis has evolved to enhancing sex.
"Now when people use them they don't ask if they are safe anymore -- it's just about how much pleasure a condom gives them," said Goh. "So I think that's how we have progressed, from safety to pleasure."
Schultz said he and other executives were recently in China and Japan and that the race between Clinton and Trump is all anyone can talk about there as well.
"We don't want to use the uncertainty in the election as an excuse. But nevertheless, we are all trying to navigate through a difficult time," he said. "I would label this time as just a high degree of uncertainty that obviously is domestically driven, but has affected the rest of the world."
Neither Schultz or other executives on the call mentioned Trump or Clinton by name.
 What's with the new green Starbucks holiday cups?
But it is somewhat telling that Starbucks thinks customers outside of the U.S. are this nervous about the election outcome.
Starbucks CFO Scott Harlan Maw said election uncertainty "continues to weigh on our customers around the globe." And sales growth in China, Japan and Europe was lower than it was in the U.S.
Schultz expressed confidence that this will be a temporary phenomenon. Things may go back to normal once this long and increasingly nasty presidential race is finally over. You could argue the campaign is more bitter than a cup of French Roast.
"I think everyone is hoping that post the election, there will be a return to a natural state of affairs in terms of the consumer behavior," Schultz said.
Starbucks is not the only major restaurant company to cite the election as a problem this quarter.
Starbucks rival Dunkin' Brands (DNKN) did as well. McDonald's (MCD), Taco Bell owner Yum! Brands (YUM) and Popeyes Louisiana Kitchen (PLKI) have also said the election was having an impact on their traffic and sales.
But the good news for Starbucks is that the company's most loyal customers don't appear to be the ones who are cutting back.
The king of coffee's overall earnings and sales topped Wall Street's forecasts. The stock rose 3% on the news Friday.
The solid sales may help allay concerns of any backlash from Trump supporters to Starbucks because of Schultz's support of Clinton.
Starbucks also announced it was boosting its dividend to shareholders by a more than Venti-sized 25%. So that probably helped.
 Starbucks CEO says Hillary Clinton will win the election
Shares are still down 11% this year though. There have been concerns, outside of any election impact, about whether more consumers are giving up their caffeine fix.
To that end, Starbucks noted that traffic at locations open at least a year was down 1% in the U.S. during the quarter. But sales still rose 4% despite the fewer visits.
Why?
The average order rose 6% in the quarter, partly a reflection of a recent price hike for some products due to the rising cost of coffee on the commodities markets.
But it's also an indication that the company's biggest Frappuccino addicts are buying even more when they stop at Starbucks.
The somewhat controversial change in the company's loyalty program also may be having an impact on how often they go to Starbucks and what they buy there.
Starbucks is now rewarding customers for how much they spend instead of how many times they visit a store.
 Corporate America's bogus blame the election excuse
That gives loyalty customers incentive to buy more -- and perhaps make purchases for coworkers to bring back to the office -- as opposed to just simply going two or three times a day to buy one beverage.
Wall Street analysts also continue to be impressed by the company's use of technology to make ordering more efficient.
Nomura analyst Mark Kalinowski noted that mobile ordering now accounts for 25% of all orders, up from 20% a year ago. BTIG's Peter Saleh said in a report that Starbucks has "digital adoption that is hard to match right now."
Starbucks clearly gets technology -- more so than many other restaurant chains.
That isn't expected to change anytime soon. The company's COO Kevin Johnson is a former exec with Microsoft  (MSFT, Tech30)and Juniper Networks (JNPR). And he is widely viewed on Wall Street to be the most likely successor for Schultz if he ever decides to step down.
Johann Rupert, the firm's founder and billionaire chairman, will stay on and may consolidate his power. Rupert has denied he'll take on more work and noted that younger executives will be elevated.
"My role is really just here to smooth over the generation skip," he said on a call with investors and analysts on Friday. "Now it's time for us to start looking at another generation."
He also praised the outgoing CEO, Richard Lepeu, a 38-year veteran of the firm.
"I don't know how Richard did it," Rupert said. "I can't expect anybody to fulfil that role again, in that way."
Richemont employs about 30,000 people. It also owns the brands Chloe and Van Cleef & Arpels.
 This duo made Gucci cool again
The shake-up was announced as the company reported a double-digit sales slump in the six months ending September 30. The results were better than expected, though, and investors bid up shares by as much as 10%.
Luxury companies are struggling to maintain sales levels. Tourism has taken a hit in Europe after a series of high-profile terrorist attacks. And the strengthening yen in Japan has also dissuaded tourists there from making flashy purchases.
A recent report from consulting firm Bain & Company predicts global spending on luxury goods will dip 1% this year to €249 billion ($276 billion).
But brands that have captured the imagination of younger generations with fresh designs are beating the pack.
Gucci, which is owned by Kering, recently reported a huge surge in sales as customers snapped up new designs by creative director Alessandro Michele.
Richemont told investors it will strive to adapt and is confident in the "long term prospects for high quality products."
"Everything is changing," Rupert said, "and we want to stay ahead of that curve."
"Our September client survey showed that the Street convincingly believes that Hillary Clinton will be the next American president," wrote Tobias Levkovich, Citi's chief U.S. equity analyst. "However, if Donald Trump were to win, that outcome would have been unexpected and thereby may cause a jump in the equity risk premium."
A Trump win also poses a big risk to stocks in the long term, according to the bank, which cites concerns about his policies that aim to restrict international trade.
"We have viewed protectionism as a key threat to profit margins for many years, as companies have taken advantage of global sourcing and transparent pricing via technology," Lekovich wrote. "Any interference could erode not just profits but also the benefits that have accrued to consumers from lower-priced goods and services." There is also a risk to U.S. companies if other countries raise tariffs in response to Trump's policies.
 Clinton vs. Trump - Who's better for stocks and jobs?
Citi's forecast is that Clinton still has a 75% chance to win, despite the announcement from FBI Director James Comey that the bureau discovered additional emails that could be related to the bureau's investigation into how Clinton handled classified information.
"Heightened polarization does not bode well for governance, regardless of who wins the election," wrote Tina Fordham, Citi's chief political analyst. "The FBI announcement could increase the risk that if Trump loses he does not accept the result. If a Clinton victory transpires and she presides over a Republican-controlled or divided Congress, the risk of continuous investigations and possible future impeachment is non-negligible."
The Citi forecast is one of the first to come out since the FBI revealed the emails and the polls tightened. The research firm Macroeconomic Advisers forecast in early October that a Trump win would result in an 8% drop in U.S. stocks due to uncertainty about his economic and trade policies. The Brookings Institute projects a 10% to 15% plunge in stocks if Trump wins.
No matter who wins, the day after the election usually tends to be rough for stocks. Bespoke Investments found that the average selloff the next day is about 1%.
-- CNNMoney's Patrick Gillespie and Heather Long contributed to this report
There were about 150 billion transactions last year, according to a separate study by the Federal Reserve and Census figures.
"We still see significant cash preference despite rumors that everyone is switching over to cards," says Claire Wang, a policy analyst at the San Francisco Fed.
 U.S. dollar zooms to 7-month high
And all those Milllennials, who seemingly never have cash in their wallets, actually use it more than everyone else.
Americans aged 18 to 24 used cash in 38% of their payments last year, more than any other age group.
Low-income households -- people who earn less than $25,000 a year -- tend to prefer cash over other payment methods more than households with a high income.
When it comes to small payments, cash rules across all demographics. For payments of $10 or less, Americans used cash 66% of the time. While companies like Square (SQ) make small credit and debt payments easier, they still haven't overtaken the greenback.
The flip side to the story is that the other forms of payments are inching in and cash's lead is waning. In 2012, the last time the San Francisco Fed did the report, cash was used in 40% of transactions. Now it's 32% -- still top of the payment chain but by a smaller lead.
And there could be plenty more to come, especially as the South Asian nation opens up further and cements its place as the world's fastest-growing economy.
 U.K. begins hunt for new business after dumping EU
"Britain will need very strong trading ties with some of the large markets, and I believe India, along with China, [is] probably the most sought after market," said Mihir Kapadia, CEO of London-based firm Sun Global Investments.
Finance and technology are two areas where the countries will likely be looking to deepen their cooperation, Kapadia added. Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi needs investors to help boost local manufacturing.
"India is looking for a huge amount of investments, especially in the infrastructure sector," Kapadia said.
India has a lot at stake too -- 1.5 million Indians live in Britain, and Indian companies (like the Tata Group, which owns Jaguar Land Rover and Tetley Tea) employ over 100,000 people in the U.K.
Keeping that link alive will figure high up the Indian government's agenda in its talks with May. Visa rule changes that make it harder for foreign students to work in the U.K. after graduation resulted in a 50% drop in Indian applications to British universities over the past year.
And May's government has just issued new visa restrictions that make it even harder for companies to transfer foreign workers to the U.K.
"Indian students and people-to-people relations are important pillars of India-U.K. ties," Vikas Swarup, spokesperson for India's foreign ministry, said Thursday. "We expect mobility issues to be raised during the visit."
 Brexit is becoming a big fat mess
The main thrust of the visit, however, will be setting up a framework for future bilateral trade.
Any free trade agreement between the two countries will have to wait until the U.K. formally leaves the EU. That is still at least two years away, and potentially much longer after Thursday's court ruling that May will need parliamentary approval for Brexit.
"There will be so many areas where new partners will be needed" once Brexit happens, said Kapadia. "India, of course, will be right on the top of that priority list."
Samsung was hit with a class action lawsuit over the machines in August. A customer in Texas said her washer "exploded with such ferocity that it penetrated the interior wall of her garage," according to court documents.
The South Korean company is already dealing with the recall of 1 million Galaxy Note 7 smartphones, which can burst into flames while charging.
In September, the CPSC told customers to "immediately stop using and power down" the Galaxy Note 7. The FAA told travelers to turn off their phones when flying, and the New York City transit system said to turn them off on trains and buses.

 Samsung warns that washing machines could explode
Samsung declined further comment about the washing machines.
The company is offering customers free in-home repair, with a one-year warranty extension, or a rebate to buy a new washer, from Samsung or another company, with free installation and removal of the old one. Customers who stick with Samsung get $150 toward their next washer.
"The middle class are getting squeezed," said Larry Levitt, senior vice president at the Kaiser Family Foundation. "They aren't getting subsidies and these deductibles are hard to afford."
This schism is turning Obamacare into another government benefit program for lower- and moderate-income Americans. The typical enrollee has an income of only 165% of the federal poverty level, or $40,000 for a family of four.
The real problem is that health care is very expensive, Levitt said. But most Americans don't realize the true cost because they are shielded by their employers.
Some 150 million people have insurance through work, paying only about $440 a month for a family plan, while employers cover the rest, or about $1,075.
 Employers push health care costs onto workers
For the 10.5 million enrollees on the Obamamcare exchanges, health insurance costs are more transparent. And more of the burden falls on the consumers. That is leaving an untold number of Americans opting to remain uninsured, rather than shell out thousands a year for premiums and deductibles. In 2015, 46% of uninsured adults said that they tried to get coverage but did not because it was too expensive, a Kaiser study found.
The big price spikes for 2017 have some current Obamacare enrollees wondering whether they'll renew their plans next year or opt to pay the penalty of $695 per person, or 2.5% of income, whichever is larger.
 Obamacare: Sick - but not in death spiral
Take Irene Solesky of Towson, Maryland. A mortgage underwriter, Solesky and her husband earn too much to receive a subsidy. So next year, they will have to pay $1,351 a month for a CareFirst Bronze plan for themselves and their two sons. On top of that, they face a $13,100 family deductible.
"It's a catastrophic policy as far as I'm concerned," said Solesky, 55, noting her Obamacare policy costs twice as much as her mortgage. "Medical insurance was meant to keep medical expenses from driving you in financial ruin, not for the medical insurance to drive you in financial ruin."

Before the Obamacare exchanges opened in 2014, Solesky had an individual insurance plan that cost her $215 a month to cover herself and her two sons. The deductible was $5,000. But the carrier wouldn't cover her husband because he had high blood pressure.
Initially, Solesky was looking forward to Obamacare because it did not allow insurers to exclude those with pre-existing conditions, like her husband. But she did not expect the prices to be so high. She's now considering dropping her plan and paying the penalty, especially since the only medical care the family received this year beyond an annual check-up was a mammogram for Solesky.
While costs vary widely across states and carriers, the average national prices give some insight into just how steep Obamacare premiums and deductibles can be for the non-subsidized. A 30-year-old will pay an average of $311 a month for the lowest-level bronze plan for 2017, while a 60-year-old will pay an average of $744, according to a review by HealthPocket, which analyzes insurance plans. Both rose 21% from this year. And the average deductible on a bronze plan will top $6,000 next year for an individual and come in at nearly $12,400 for a family.

Health Department officials acknowledge that Obamacare premiums and deductibles can be pricey, especially for those who don't qualify for subsidies.
"These costs are largely a symptom of the fact that medical costs in this country are extraordinarily high," said Kevin Counihan, CEO of the federal exchange, healthcare.gov. "We have an 800-lb gorilla here, which is exploding health care costs."
In the short term, officials are trying to make sure enrollees know about the services they can receive that aren't subject to the deductible. These include an annual check-up, various preventative screenings and, depending on the plan, additional doctor visits and some medications. They are also working with insurers to expand the services they provide outside the deductible.
Longer term, Obamacare has several provisions designed to slow the growth of health care costs, such as rewarding doctors for delivering more efficient, coordinated care of patients and penalizing hospitals with high readmission rates.
For lower- and moderate-income Americans, federal subsidies take out some of the sting. They can reduce premiums to just under 10% of a family's household income ... or even lower depending on the policy one picks. Some 72% of all enrollees can find a plan for less than $75 a month. Still, many of these folks have to contend with deductibles of thousands of dollars.
 Obamacare premiums to soar 22%
Those who earn less than $30,000 a year, or $48,000 for a family of four, are also eligible for so called "cost-sharing" subsidies that lower the deductibles and co-pays, as well. Some 57% of Obamacare enrollees receive these additional subsidies.
A 30-year-old Houston man earning $22,000 a year could find a plan for $100 a month with a $500 deductible next year, thanks to both subsidies. But that same plan would cost $251 a month and come with a $2,400 deductible if he earned $35,000, making him ineligible for any government help.
"The subsidized are insulated from market realities," said Kev Coleman, head of research and data for HealthPocket. "For the unsubsidized, how attractive are these plans going to be?"
 Obamacare enrollment projected to grow 9% in 2017
For Michael Horbal, 49, the premium subsidies allows him to select a silver plan rather than a bronze one that would mean higher out-of-pocket costs. Horbal, who is married with four children, paid about $600 a month this year for a policy that originally cost $1,200. The plan has a $4,500 deductible.
"Having that subsidy ... has allowed us to buy a better plan that we could not otherwise afford," said Horbal, a Newtown, Pennsylvania resident who owns LifeInsuranceAdvisors.com. "It's a huge benefit."
But the reality is very different for Clare Lee, 62. The Midland, Michigan, resident finds himself skimping on care even though he has coverage through Obamacare. Since he and his wife don't qualify for subsidies, they pay $1,200 a month for a Blue Cross bronze plan that comes with a $12,000 deductible.
Lee, who is in retail sales, didn't go to the doctor when he had a cough in March. He didn't want to pay the full price since he hadn't met his deductible. The cough lasted a month.
"There were other times I should have gone, but all that comes out of my pocket," said Lee, who, prior to Obamacare, had a Blue Cross plan with a $532 monthly premium and $4,000 deductible. "So I see if I can just work through it."
The jobs report has become a divisive subject in the presidential election. Donald Trump has called the official unemployment rate a "hoax" and he's tried to discredit the Labor Department's official numbers.
2. Global stock market overview: U.S. stock futures are treading water right now. Virtually all international markets are declining. This follows a string of negative trading sessions in the U.S.
The S&P 500 has now declined for eight straight days, making this the longest losing streak since October 2008.
3. GoPro stock takes a dive: GoPro (GPRO, Tech30) stock just jumped off a cliff, dropping by about 20% in extended trading.
The action camera maker reported sales of $240.6 million for the third quarter, down nearly 40% from the same period a year earlier and well below Wall Street's estimates.
Before the Bell newsletter: Key market news. In your inbox. Subscribe now!
4. Takata in more trouble: Trading in shares of troubled airbag manufacturer Takata (TKTDY) was suspended temporarily Friday in Japan following reports that the company is considering filing for bankruptcy.
A spokesperson for the company told CNNMoney that nothing has been decided yet.
"We are aware that there is [a] news report saying we are considering voluntary liquidation, but it was not what we announced, and there is nothing that has been decided and disclosed," the spokesperson said.
Trading later resumed and the shares closed down 1.8% in Tokyo.
Takata's faulty airbags have been used by global automakers including Honda (HMC), General Motors (GM) and Volkswagen (VLKAF). The airbags have already been linked to at least 11 deaths in the U.S. and to hundreds of injuries globally.
The crisis has resulted in a massive global recall of tens of millions of vehicles.
Download CNN MoneyStream for up-to-the-minute market data and news
5. Berkshire's big night: Warren Buffett's company Berkshire Hathaway (BRKB) is reporting earnings after the close of trading.
Very few companies tend to report on Friday evening, but Berkshire has a habit of doing this.
6. Rate hike hints?: Three Federal Reserve members -- including vice chair Stanley Fischer -- are speaking publicly on Friday about various topics. Traders will be looking to see if they drop further hints about the Fed raising interest rates in December.
7. Coming this week:  Friday - Jobs report, Berkshire Hathaway (BRKB) earnings
Unemployment fell a tick to 4.9%. That's down by half since 2009, when unemployment peaked at 10%.
October's gains marked the 73rd consecutive month of job gains for the U.S. economy.
"We see so many examples in our data of an economy moving in the right direction," U.S. Labor Secretary Tom Perez told CNNMoney.
The September job gains were revised up to 191,000 jobs from the first read of 156,000.
Wage growth -- one of the last metrics to move in the right direction post-recession -- continued to show signs of accelerating. Wages grew 2.8% in October compared to a year ago, the fastest growth since June 2009.
"We're going to see stronger wage growth going forward as we see a labor market that's approaching full employment," says Jacob Duritsky, vice president at Team NEO, a nonprofit that focuses on economic development in northeast Ohio.
Sign up for CNNMoney's morning market newsletter: Before The Bell
The jobs report has become a divisive subject in the presidential election. Donald Trump has called the official unemployment rate a "hoax" and he's tried to discredit the Labor Department's official numbers.
Trump says the unemployment rate is closer to 10%, using a broader measure of unemployment, which also counts some part time workers as unemployed. The Bureau of Labor Statistics, a wing of the Labor Department, has never relied on this measure to describe the country's key unemployment rate.
"it's absurd to argue that the Bureau of Labor Statistics is shading the numbers in some way," says Robert Murphy, a professor at Boston College and former economist on the White House's Council of Economic Advisers. The BLS "has high integrity."
Trump campaign said in a statement that it was a "disastrous jobs report." He criticized the economy's performance during President Obama's tenure. He also noted the high poverty levels among young black Americans.
Overall, the black unemployment rate at the end of October stood at 8.6%, down from a peak of 16.6% in 2010.
Both candidates have promised to spend more on building new roads and bridges. Hillary Clinton wants to create a pathway to citizenship for undocumented workers, and Trump has proposed tax cuts and slashing business regulations. Clinton would add more jobs than Trump, according to analysis of both their policies by Moody's, Oxford Economics and UPenn's Wharton School Budget Model.
 U.S. economy posts best growth in two years
The solid job numbers on Friday come one week after America posted its best quarterly economic growth in two years of 2.9%. Overall, though, growth has been sluggish in the years since the Great Recession, and that trend has been a major issue on the campaign trail.
The job market is not free of problems either. There remain a high number of discouraged workers -- people who haven't been able to find jobs in the past year and have given up the hunt. And there's about six million Americans working part-time jobs who want full-time jobs. These trends are near the top of the worry list for policy makers.
The strong wage growth in October is a long-awaited and welcome sign for many workers. Stagnant wages have been a major reason why many Americans didn't feel the benefits of the recovery over the last seven years.
Solid job gains and wage growth also helps to clear the path for the Federal Reserve to raise rates at its next meeting in December. That would be a sign that America's economy is getting closer to full health.
"This will provide comfort to those at the Fed who are ready to increase the federal funds rate," says Joseph Brusuelas, chief economist at RSM, an accounting firm in New York.
The new section will be arranged at eight seats across each row, with two outermost seats separated by the aisles. Each 19-inch wide seat will feature a 13.3-inch in-flight entertainment screen, in-seat power ports and 38 inches of pitch, a measurement of the distance between the same point on two seats. That's about six to seven inches of additional legroom and an inch wider than standard economy seating.

In addition to the larger seat, passengers on-board will receive a beverage before departure, an amenity kit, premium blanket and noise canceling headphones. At the airport a Delta Premium ticket will get you faster check-in and security lines, as well as earlier boarding and expedited baggage return.
Delta's move follows American Airlines introduction of a premium economy class for its long-haul jetliners as well. Airlines around the world such as Lufthansa, Singapore Airlines, Cathay Pacific, Air New Zealand, Air France and Iberia have all added new premium economy sections to their planes.
American Airlines adds 'Premium Economy' seats
As opulent first class seats have faded from use, airlines have focused on courting high-value business travelers with fully lie-flat seat beds and other hotel-like amenities. Such tickets can run as much as a compact car, while an economy class seat has remained largely the same through the history of jet flying, wildly separating a passenger's experience.
Airlines are seeking to tap into a quickly growing market for more-frugal business travelers and economy fliers who are willing to value comfort and space over the price of a seat, said Henry Harteveldt, founder of the Atmosphere Research Group.
"As they develop these [premium economy] products there's a balance between the premium side and the economy side," said Harteveldt. "You want it attractive enough to attract someone from a standard economy fare...but you don't want it to be so good that someone who usually flies business class will trade down to premium economy."
Check out Delta's new all-suite business class
The Atlanta-based airline will first fit its new long-range A350s with 48 Delta Premium seats, and plans to deploy the new class on its Boeing 777s starting in 2018. Delta said its other jets may be added over time. Delta also plans to introduce an all-new business class seat with fully-closing door on its A350s.
American's own competing premium economy seating debuts on international flights starting with its new Boeing 787-9 Dreamliner on Thursday night, connecting Dallas-Fort Worth to Sao Paulo and Dallas-Fort Worth to Madrid Friday evening. The airline currently sells those seats under its Main Cabin Extra economy product rather than a distinct class, that begins next year.
Neither Delta nor American have said how much their new premium seats will cost compared to a standard economy fare.
The flagging growth in the number of undocumented workers is a sharp contrast to the decade prior to the recession. Between 1995 and 2005, the number of undocumented immigrants in the U.S. workforce more than doubled from 3.6 million to 7.3 million, Pew reported.
Mexico is a big part of the recent slowdown, said Mark Hugo Lopez, Pew's director of Hispanic research. "Not only is it harder to cross the border into the United States from Mexico, it's harder to cross into Mexico from Central America," he said.
How Latinos are saving this former Pennsylvania mining town
Mexico's stable economy has also helped stem the flow of undocumented immigrants coming into the U.S.
"Mexico hasn't experienced an economic crisis recently," Lopez said. "And now there's a growing number of Mexicans who feel like life in the U.S. isn't that much better than life in Mexico."
Even though undocumented workers represent just fraction of the overall U.S. workforce, there are industries where they figure prominently. In the agricultural and construction industries, for example, undocumented workers represent 17% and 13% of the labor force respectively, Pew reported.
As fewer migrant workers come into the country, specialty fruit and vegetable producers say they're experiencing a worker shortage that has forced them to pay higher wages. With a national average wage of roughly $12 an hour, most American workers don't want to do the work for that pay, industry sources said.
The worker shortage facing America's farmers
Pew also found that seven U.S. states saw their undocumented worker population increase significantly since 2009, while eight other states saw substantial declines.
The state with the highest proportion of undocumented workers is Nevada, where the leisure/hospitality and construction industries employ many undocumented workers. There, 10% of workers were undocumented in 2014. California and Texas follow, with 9% and 8.5%, respectively.
The undocumented worker population trend reflects that of the overall undocumented population, which has also held steady at 11 million since 2009, according to Pew.
How immigrants can revive America's blighted neighborhoods
Lopez noted that documented new-immigrant arrivals from Asia, mainly from China and India, outpaced undocumented and documented arrivals from Latin America. The increase in the number of foreign born people could be from an increase in refugees, family reunifications and H-1B visa holders, he said.
Some undocumented immigrants start out as documented but become undocumented when they overstay their visas, he added.
Using data primarily from the U.S. Census Bureau's American Community Survey for 2005 to 2014, Pew derived estimates for the undocumented immigrant population by subtracting the foreign-born population that are "documented" from the total foreign-born population. It then adjusted its figures to consider people that were omitted from the survey. Pew defined the labor force as those who are 16 or older and are currently working or who are looking for work.
1. American economy is good, but not great
The U.S. economy has recovered a lot since the Great Recession ended in 2009. The unemployment rate today is around 5%, half of the painful 10% rate it had hit in late 2009, when the country was hemorrhaging jobs. Since then, the economy has created 13.7 million jobs.
However, it has been a long and slow slog to dig out of the recession.
And lately, even job growth has slowed. It's expected, since the economy is at the point that many economists consider fully employed. It's hard to keep adding loads of jobs forever. Last year, America added 2.6 million jobs, one of the best years of gains since 1999.
For October, economists surveyed by CNNMoney forecast that 177,000 new jobs were added, slightly higher than 156,000 jobs that were added in September. They also see the unemployment rate falling a tick to 4.9% from 5%.
To keep the unemployment rate where it is now, economists estimate that America only needs to add 50,000 to 100,000 jobs a month. So October's gains should be healthy enough.
2. Trump says the jobs numbers are bogus
Trump has consistently tried to discredit the official jobs numbers published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, a wing of the Labor Department.
"The 5% [unemployment] figure is one the biggest hoaxes in American modern politics," Trump proclaimed in August.
Trump's team also likes to say the "overall unemployment rate" is 9.7%, not 5%. But what he cites is a different, broader measure of employment than what the Labor Department reports.
That measure, called the "U6 rate," has never been used to describe the country's overall unemployment rate and economists say it is misleading to characterize it as such.
A letter signed by 370 economists from around the nation this week urged voters not to vote for Trump and their first reason was that Trump has tried to discredit the country's fundamental institutions like the Labor Department.
 No Fed rate hike but one may come soon
3. Wage growth is picking up slowly
Americans' paychecks were one of the last things to turn in the right direction since the Great Recession.
Wage growth has been sluggish -- in the last four years, average wage growth was just above 2%.
Wages are expected to grow 2.6% in October, according to CNNMoney's survey, and so far this year wages have growth at an average of 2.5%. That's not huge, but it's better than what it has been.
Remember, as unemployment stays low, employers looking to hire have fewer available workers to choose from and are forced to offer competitive wages to recruit or retain employees.
 Truck drivers see best wage growth in October
4. People are jumping back into the job market
People who were laid off and disappeared from the labor force because they were disheartened about not finding one, are now coming back to give job searches another try. It's a positive shift.
Since the recession, there has been a high level of what economists call "discouraged workers." The participation rate, a key measure of whether people are coming back into the job market, has inched up this year. It's increased significantly for Americans between ages 25 and 54 years old -- the people who are generally supposed to be working.
The pick up in "working age" participation shows people feel more confident about finding work.
 Millions in gig economy can't find better work or pay
5. We've come a long way since the Great Recession but there's still plenty of problems
No doubt, the economy, especially the job market is in much better shape since the recession. America has added jobs for 72 consecutive months -- six years of gains.
But let's be real. Wage growth is still too low for too many Americans. Six million Americans work part-time jobs but want full-time work. And these part-time jobs can really hold people back and harm their careers.
Many workers, particularly in manufacturing and mining, feel left out of the recovery, as America's job creation has shifted towards services and away from production.
Many global businesses use London as a gateway to Europe's vast markets.
Under EU rules, they are allowed to operate across the block as long as they are based in one of the member countries.
If the U.K. leaves Europe's free trade area, businesses with headquarters in London, including many banks, could lose that right.
The Paris Region Developmental Agency is hoping it could provide a new home to some of them.
 Court ruling throws Brexit process into doubt
"I want France to appear as the natural choice for all those enterprises which are looking for a gateway into Europe," said Manuel Valls, the French Prime Minister.
La Defense, the Parisian finance district, launched its own campaign last month with a slogan "Tired of the fog? Try the Frogs!' It is hoping to convince banks to shift some of their operations there following Brexit.
 7 cities that could steal business from London
One obvious choice could be the banks' clearing services. Much of the global trade in euros currently takes place in London, despite the U.K. opting out of the currency used by 19 members of the EU.
The city handles transactions worth trillions of euros -- currencies, shares, bonds and other financial contracts. These might have to move elsewhere within Europe after Brexit.
"I have been saying it for months, the Brexit is a deeply regrettable decision but it is an historical one which is transforming the face of Europe and in front of which we cannot be idle nor naive," said Valerie Pecresse, president of the regional council of Ile de France, the Paris region.
Paris will face stiff competition from other European cities that are also hoping to steal business from London. Frankfurt, where the European Central Bank is based, is hoping to attract the banks. Dublin, home to the European headquarters of Google (GOOGL, Tech30) and Facebook (FB, Tech30), eyes London's tech sector.
None of those acronyms sound as cool as FANG -- a fitting moniker given how much bite the stocks have had this year.
Shares of Facebook are up 15% so far in 2016, even after factoring in Thursday's big drop. Amazon is up nearly 15% as well.
Netflix, which was in the red for much of the year due to concerns about its growth, is now up 7% following a stellar earnings report that showed big gains in international subscribers.
Amazon and Netflix even rallied Thursday while Facebook's stock was sinking. So it seems as if investors are no longer treating the four as if they should all rise and fall together. And that makes sense.
 Facebook's incredible ad sales machine is slowing down
The FANG stocks have some things in common, most notably the fact that they're betting big on video content. But that's about it.
Netflix has little in the way of commercials. Its money comes from subscriptions.
Google's lifeblood continues to be advertising dollars. Ditto for Facebook.
And even though Amazon is diversifying and now has a huge cloud business, it still gets the bulk of its revenue from selling stuff. That's why some would argue that it's really more a retailer that uses tech as opposed to a pure tech company.
And Google? It is the laggard of the group, up a mere 1% and about 7% below its all-time high.
Despite concerns about how much Google is investing on money losing, moonshot "other bets" like Fiber, Nest and health care units Verily and Calico, the core search, YouTube and Android businesses continue to churn out big profits.
Want more news about the titans of tech? Check out CNN's new MoneyStream app
Investors are still infatuated with these four tech companies.
Several Wall Street analysts think Facebook's drop is an overreaction.
Investors shouldn't be surprised that revenue growth will inevitably slow given how strong it has been this year. Nor should they be shocked to learn that CEO Mark Zuckerberg wants to invest more in the company, even if it hurts short-term profits.
 Google and Amazon are in a race to be $1,000 stocks
At the end of the day, Facebook and other tech stocks may continue to be stars on Wall Street as long as they keep proving that they have long-term momentum.
Zuckerberg, Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos, Netflix chief Reed Hastings and Google/Alphabet's Larry Page and Sergey Brin all know that you have to spend money to make money.
That philosophy may occasionally tick off myopically minded investors and traders who fret about how many pennies per share a company beats estimates by. But the focus on the future is the main reason why we talk about FANG in the first place.
None of these companies would be market leaders if their management teams rested on their laurels instead of constantly trying to figure out what's next so they can stay on top.
If an "unfavorable" resolution is reached in any of the investigations, Wells Fargo said it may be "material" to its business.
Wells Fargo didn't explain precisely what the SEC is investigating the bank for, other than that it relates to the "sales practices" that have landed it in hot water.
Senator Elizabeth Warren recently asked the SEC in a letter to look into whether Wells Fargo violated whistleblower protection laws. She cited CNNMoney's reporting on Wells Fargo employees who believe they were retaliated against for calling the bank's ethics hotline over the opening of fake accounts and similar issues.
 Inside Wells Fargo, workers say the mood is grim
Beyond the whistleblower scrutiny, Wells Fargo has been criticized for not alerting investors to the problems inside the retail bank until it reached a settlement with regulators on September 8. Former CEO John Stumpf has said he became aware of the issues in 2013. And CNNMoney obtained a 2007 letter addressed to Stumpf that warned of "widespread" fraud.
Warren, easily Wells Fargo's harshest critic in Washington, called on the SEC to investigate whether the bank committed securities fraud by "failing to disclose problems with fake accounts."
For instance, Wells Fargo did not mention the looming settlement or "sales practices" at all when the bank filed an SEC document on August 3, just weeks before the news broke. Known as a "10-Q," that filing requires public companies disclose relevant information about their business to investors.
Wells Fargo has previously defended its lack of disclosure. Stumpf told a Congressional hearing into the scandal that "the facts and circumstances, we believed, were not material."
Yet, the fake account scandal has clearly had a dramatic impact on Wells Fargo. Not only did Stumpf abruptly retire under pressure, but Wells Fargo's new account openings have plunged and its stock price slumped to a two-and-a-half-year low.
Sign up for CNNMoney's morning market newsletter: Before The Bell
Even on Thursday, Wells Fargo acknowledged to investors that the "negative publicity or public opinion" resulting from the scandal "may increase the risk of reputational harm to our business."
The SEC did not respond to a request for comment. Wells Fargo declined to comment on the specifics of what the SEC is investigating.
In an emailed statement to CNNMoney, Wells Fargo said it's "committed to restoring trust with customers and all of its key stakeholders" and listed a series of steps, including eliminating controversial sales goals and appointing new leadership.
Besides the SEC, Wells Fargo is grappling with investigations from the Department of Justice and multiple Congressional committees, state attorneys general and prosecutors' offices. Additionally, class action lawsuits have been launched by customers, employees and shareholders who believe they were harmed by the scandal.
Wells Fargo is also being investigated by the government over its mortgage tactics. Wells Fargo said on Thursday it's in discussions with the taskforce spearheading the investigation, which could increase the bank's legal costs even more than expected.
Get the latest Wells Fargo news on the CNN MoneyStream app
Bank of America (BAC) reached a settlement worth nearly $17 billion with this taskforce in 2014.
Trump responded with a threat.
"I hear the Rickets family, who own the Chicago Cubs, are secretly spending $'s against me," he tweeted in February. "They better be careful, they have a lot to hide!"
I hear the Rickets family, who own the Chicago Cubs, are secretly spending $'s against me. They better be careful, they have a lot to hide!
When the Washington Post editorial board asked him a month later what he meant, he said he would take out ads "telling them all what a rotten job they're doing with the Chicago Cubs."
"I mean, they are spending on me. I mean, so am I allowed to say that?" he said. "I'll start doing ads about their baseball team. That it's not properly run or that they haven't done a good job in the brokerage business lately."
The family has since started backing Trump through its Future45 super PAC. But the late conversion apparently wasn't enough for Trump to get on the Cubs bandwagon with a congratulatory tweet.
Joe Ricketts, the family patriarch, is the founder and former CEO of TD Ameritrade (AMTD). One son, Tom, is chairman of the Cubs; another, Pete, is governor of Nebraska. When Pete Ricketts endorsed Trump in May, Trump said he was warming to the team again.
"I like him so much, I'm starting to like the Chicago Cubs again," he said at a campaign rally in Omaha.
Laura Ricketts, the sister of Tom and Pete, is a member of the team's board of directors. She has bucked the family on politics and contributes to Democrats, including Hillary Clinton.
Trump's campaign did not respond to questions from CNNMoney on Thursday morning.
 Win or lose, the Chicago Cubs are a money making machine
Despite Trump's slam about how the Ricketts family runs the team, it was successful well before the championship.
The Cubs have been among the most profitable baseball teams even in their many losing years, and the franchise has more than tripled in value, from roughly $700 million to $2.2 billion, since the Ricketts family bought it in 2009.
 Here are the ads Clinton and Trump bought in Game 7
Other politicians were eager to congratulate the Cubs after their historic win. President Obama, a fan of the rival Chicago White Sox, invited the Cubs to the White House.
It happened: @Cubs win World Series. That's change even this South Sider can believe in. Want to come to the White House before I leave?
Hillary Clinton, a Cubs fan, also tweeted congratulations, which had 12,000 retweets and 43,000 likes by Thursday morning.
They did it! 108 years later and the drought is finally over. Way to make history, @Cubs. #FlyTheW -H
Illinois Republicans such as Senator Mark Kirk and Governor Bruce Rauner also were quick to congratulate the Cubs.
Get the latest sports news on the CNN MoneyStream app
"I just don't want Hillary in power," she told CNNMoney. "But Trump is not promising either."
For now, Garcia believes her best option is not to vote. It would be the first time in 40 years she would leave the presidential ballot blank.
Garcia's family is torn. Her husband, Miguel, plans to vote for Trump, despite his feelings that the GOP candidate "isn't a true Republican." Their two grown daughters are voting for Clinton.
CNNMoney interviewed over 80 voters in the key swing states of Florida, Ohio and Pennsylvania in September. We circled back with the undecided voters this week.
 Key model predicts big election win for Clinton
Why I'm leaning Trump
The vast majority of them have made up their minds about who they will NOT vote for on Nov. 8. Now it's down to whether they can hold their nose and push the button for the other candidate.
Bruce Davis lives in Pike County, Ohio, a place Mitt Romney won by a single vote in 2012. He was undecided in September. He's always been independent-minded, and drinks regularly with one buddy who supports Trump and another who is a Clinton supporter.
Davis voted for President Obama both times, but he can't stomach Clinton. He can't get past her many email issues.
"It really sticks in my craw. It seems like a general disregard [for protocol] and arrogancy," he told CNNMoney.
Davis isn't a fan of Trump, but he sees him as someone who will "shake up the status quo."
"Anything that makes the majority of the politicians uncomfortable in Washington may be a good thing," he says.
 Voters say this is the ultimate 'lesser of two evils' election
I might write in...
Scott Hammond also lives in Pike County. He's "disgusted" with the options this year, but he's made up his mind to be in the "Never Trump" camp. He compares the Trump campaign to a Jerry Springer special.

"More than likely, I will vote for Clinton. But right now, I wouldn't commit to that," Hammond, 49, told CNNMoney Wednesday. He's considering a write in.
A life-long union guy, Hammond is getting a lot of pressure to vote for Clinton. But he's the business manager of the Boilmakers Local 105 in southern Ohio. His livelihood -- and the jobs of everyone he helps represent -- depend on coal-fired power plants.
He's just not sure he can tick the box for Clinton after her remark in a CNN town hall earlier this year that, "We're going to put a lot of coal miners and coal companies out of business."
 Hillary Clinton might lose Ohio because she badmouthed coal
Why I'm leaning Clinton
Jeff Crosby of Cleveland, Ohio, says he doesn't trust either candidate. He thought about voting for Libertarian Gary Johnson, but after Johnson flubbed a question about war-torn Aleppo, Syria in an interview with MSNBC, he decided he couldn't do it.
It's down to Clinton or Trump.
"If I have to pick between a criminal and someone who's mentally unstable, I think I'm going for the criminal," Crosby says.
Get the latest election news on the CNN MoneyStream app
Crosby, age 38, works with at-risk youth in a mostly African-American neighborhood of east Cleveland. He did jail time himself and hugely regrets his earlier life choices when he was part of a gang.
"I'm voting for the best of two evils," Crosby says. It's a line so many have told CNNMoney this year.
 To win Ohio, Clinton courts Millennials
How women view Trump
For many American women, including Lizbeth Martell of Kissimmee, Florida, and Angie Shanks of Waverly, Ohio, the 2005 tape that surfaced of Trump making extremely lewd and sexually aggressive comments about women was shocking.
It was a deciding factor for Martell, who early on had been excited to see Trump jump in the race because of his business background. Martell's family owns a popular Puerto Rican restaurant in central Florida. They work every day of the year, except Thanksgiving Day.
"Then [Trump] opened his mouth and that was really unfortunate to see who he really is," she told CNNMoney. Martell voted early for Clinton in Florida.
Shanks is also a small business owner. She runs a real estate firm in southern Ohio, an area she describes as "struggling, but surviving." She voted for President Obama, but is upset that her health insurance has tripled since Obamacare took effect.
"Trump is a wild card," Shanks says. But as she looks around her town -- a place where businesses have closed and heroin addiction is rampant among the town's mostly white unemployed population -- she's willing to roll the dice.
"Things do need to change, especially for our little community here," she believes.
Egypt's central bank said the decision to float the currency was taken "to quell any distortions in the domestic foreign currency market... and allow market demand and supply dynamics to work effectively."
According to central bank data, one U.S. dollar now buys 13 Egyptian pounds, compared to 8.8 on Wednesday.
"This is a positive step to stop the disruption in the currency market," said Mohamed Abu Basha, economist at EFG Hermes in Cairo. "We now expect the black market activity to diminish."

The Middle Eastern economy has slumped since the Arab Spring in 2011. Foreign investors have been reluctant to put money into Egypt. Terror attacks and aviation disasters have also paralyzed its vital tourism sector.
And the IMF had indicated that a free-floating currency was key to securing a $12 billion emergency loan that was agreed in August.
The government is pushing through a series of reforms to boost growth and help the poor. It wants to introduce a sales tax and slash electricity subsidies. It plans to spend the money from the IMF on health and social programs.
In the market for more business news? Download the CNN MoneyStream app
Egypt's main stock market index got a boost from the news, rising 3.4% by the end of the trading day.
A Hershey bar today costs you three times as much -- $1.59 on Target's (TGT) web site. (Thanks to Food Timeline and Oregon State University political science professor Robert Sahr for the data! Official government inflation numbers only go back to 1914!)
A box of Kellogg's (K) Corn Flakes was only 10 cents, 108 years ago. That's $2.56 in today's dollars. A 24-ounce box now costs $3.45 on Jet.com, the e-commerce site being bought by Walmart (WMT). So it looks like cocoa has been a hotter commodity than corn!
Baseball players also weren't making nearly as much money in 1908 as they are now.
According to Baseball-Reference.com, the Cubs ace pitcher Mordecai "Three Finger" Brown took home an annual salary of $3,500 in 1908. That works out to only about $90,000.
A rookie in Major League Baseball today earns a minimum salary of $507,500. And World Series MVP Ben Zobrist made $10 million this year. That doesn't include his signing bonus, or any other incentives.
Fans didn't have to pay as much to see the game Wednesday night either.
A seat in the grandstands at Chicago's West Side Grounds (Wrigley Field didn't exist yet) cost just $1.50 for a World Series game in 1908.
 World Series Game 7 ticket prices spike to a record
The stock market looked a heck of a lot different in 1908 too. The Dow Jones Industrial Average was trading around 63. Yes, 63. Two digits. It's currently hovering around 18,000.
And the companies in the Dow were nothing like today's leaders in finance, technology and retail. No American Express (AXP), Apple (AAPL, Tech30) or Home Depot (HD) obviously.
 The eerie tweet that predicted the World Series
Amalgamated Copper, American Sugar, Colorado Fuel & Iron, National Lead and U.S. Rubber were some of the leading components.
So was U.S. Steel (X), which still exists today but is nowhere as big as it once was. (Or even as big as it was in the late 1950s when Hyman Roth told Michael Corleone in "The Godfather Part II" that the mafia was bigger than U.S. Steel.)
GE (GE) is the only Dow component that still is in the index today. And it only joined in 1907, replacing Tennessee Coal & Iron.
Bullish on news? Download the CNN MoneyStream app
Hopefully, Cubs fans won't have to wait until 2124 to celebrate their next championship. I can't even imagine what companies will be in the Dow then.
--CNNMoney's Chris Isidore, Richa Naik and Michael Tarson contributed to this story.
The post-scandal atmosphere has taken a huge toll, John said, because customers now assume "Wells is scamming them." Things have gotten so bad that John said he is taking Xanax to control his panic attacks.
"It's beyond embarrassing to admit I am a current employee these days. My family and friends think I'm a fraud for working at Wells," John said.
It's been just over seven weeks since Wells Fargo admitted to creating as many as 2 million unauthorized accounts and firing 5,300 workers since 2011. The scandal led to the abrupt retirement of longtime CEO John Stumpf.
New CEO Tim Sloan has vowed to make things right at Wells Fargo, but recent conversations with current employees suggest he has a long road ahead in fixing how workers in the trenches feel about top executives.
"They don't care about us. All they care about is money in their pocket," said Jane, a Wells Fargo collections worker, who said she is being treated for depression and anxiety due to the high-stress environment.
"Wells says they are there for us. I have not seen it," she said.
 Wells Fargo workers describe mental health nightmares
The anger at Wells Fargo leadership stems from attempts by the top brass in the immediate aftermath after the scandal broke to shift blame onto lower-level employees.
"We have been dragged through the mud. We have been outright blamed by our CEO," said Sandra, who works at a Wells Fargo call center.
The problem, according to Wells Fargo employees, is they have been criticized for trying to hit unrealistic sales goals set by executives far above their pay grades.
"I'm horrified by the blame being placed on retail staff," said Eve, a Wells Fargo private banker.
Even Sloan, Wells Fargo's new CEO, acknowledged in a recent speech that the bank bungled the initial response to the scandal. "Many felt we blamed our team members. That one still hurts, and I am committed to rectifying it," he said.
Wells Fargo scrapped the controversial sales goals on October 1, and Sloan said Wells Fargo plans to introduce a new performance plan for retail bankers based on "customer service, growth and risk management."
These efforts and the company's removal of the tough sales goals may be starting to make a difference.
One Wells Fargo fraud investigator, Sarah, who is a big critic of the bank, said things have started looking better for some of her colleagues. For instance, she said coworkers in the online customer service unit were less stressed due to the removal of sales goals. "They can just concentrate on assisting the customer instead of having to sell something every call," Sarah said.
 I called the Wells Fargo ethics line and was fired
CEO Sloan has also been more forthcoming than his predecessor about the problems at Wells Fargo. He admitted the culture has "weaknesses" that have caused a morale problem. He told analysts it would be an "understatement" to say Wells Fargo employees have been "put through the wringer" as a result of the scandal.
Hoping to make amends, Sloan has apologized to employees for the "pain you have experienced as team members as a result of our company's failures."
He added, "We are not in denial about our reality."
But if he wants to right this ship, Sloan may want to make sure his message is being heard by all managers, especially given the size of the bank.
Rebecca, a Wells Fargo employee who works in a California call center, said things have actually gotten worse recently. She said her group was recently told not to use the restroom outside of scheduled breaks without a doctor's note.
"The new CEO has no impact here in the trenches. People here are angry...feeling very dehumanized," Rebecca said. "Wells Fargo can give $120 million to a crooked CEO -- but won't allow us to pee."
Stumpf, the former CEO, left with an estimated $130 million in shares and other compensation based on his more than three decades at the company. (Wells Fargo clawed back $41 million of Stumpf's pay and more clawbacks are possible pending an investigation by the bank's independent directors.)
Sign up for CNNMoney's morning market newsletter: Before The Bell
The issue of workers being denied bathroom breaks is a troubling one that came up often during CNNMoney's conversations with employees. It's unclear how widespread the problem is now, but former and current employees say it's resulted in stomach-related ailments in the past.
Nathan Todd Davis, a former banker, publicly described the problem to a Wells Fargo executive at a recent California State Assembly meeting.
A Wells Fargo spokeswoman said the bank complies with all applicable state and local laws. She said Wells Fargo is "investigating" the new claim from the employee about being denied bathroom breaks. "If we find it to be true, it is completely unacceptable and we will take immediate action," she said.
Another problem: fear of retaliation. As CNNMoney previously reported, almost half a dozen Wells Fargo workers say they were fired prior to the settlement after calling the confidential ethics hotline.
Sloan has sought to address this problem, calling it "disturbing to hear claims of retaliation against our team members." He said Wells Fargo is doing a "thorough review" of its ethics line process.
But letting his rank and file employees feel comfortable about using that hotline will not come easily, given the alarming allegations. Several current Wells Fargo workers say they are still scared there will be negative repercussions if they blow the whistle.
Get the latest Wells Fargo news on the CNN MoneyStream app
"If and when we do speak up, it's disregarded," said Barbara, a Wells Fargo employee who works on auto loans. "They will twist what you say to make it seem like you're crazy."
The main opposition Labour Party has already said it won't try to block Brexit and instead will use the ruling to push for a Brexit "that works for Britain, putting jobs, living standards and the economy first."
The ruling is a defeat for the government. Prime Minister Theresa May wanted to trigger Article 50 by the end of March 2017, meaning the U.K. would most likely leave the EU two years later.
The government said it was disappointed by the judgment and would appeal.
"The country voted to leave the European Union in a referendum approved by Act of Parliament. And the Government is determined to respect the result of the referendum," a government spokesperson said.
Government lawyers had argued that May could give the EU formal notice of Britain's decision to leave without consulting parliament. They said the people who brought the case -- investment manager Gina Miller and hairdresser Deir dos Santos -- were trying to overturn the result of the Brexit referendum in June, in which 52% voted in favor of leaving the EU.
Three of Britain's most senior judges disagreed.
"We decide that the government does not have power ... to give notice pursuant to Article 50 for the U.K. to withdraw from the European Union," they said, according to a summary of the judgment.
Britain's Supreme Court is likely to hear the appeal in early December.
Fears that the government may pursue a "hard" break with the U.K.'s biggest trading partner have trashed the pound since the June 23 referendum.
 What happens after shock Brexit ruling
The currency rallied more than 1% after the ruling was announced, but has still lost nearly 17% against the U.S. dollar since the vote.
Brexit campaigners reacted angrily.
Nigel Farage, leader of the UK Independence Party, said he feared voters would be betrayed.
"I now fear that every attempt will be made to block or delay the triggering of Article 50," he said. "If this is so, they have no idea of the level of public anger they will provoke."
But Miller said she brought the case to uphold the "highest standards of transparency and democratic accountability."
Get the latest Europe news on the CNN MoneyStream app
"It's not about how anyone voted," she said. "Everyone of us voted for the best country and the best future. This case was about process, not politics."
Another tech company that's set to take a big fall Thursday is Fitbit (FIT). The wearable device maker's stock is down by about 30% in extended trading following a disappointing earnings report.
2. Extreme fear is back: CNNMoney's Fear and Greed index suggests investors are feeling extremely fearful right now as the U.S. election looms.
The market's key volatility gauge, the VIX (VIX), has crept up to the highest levels since the aftermath of the Brexit shock in June.
Veteran market observers blame politics for the fear on Wall Street, pointing to new polls that suggest Donald Trump's chances of winning the White House have risen.
"A Trump presidency strikes fear in a large percentage of investors," according to a report from Bespoke Investment Group. "As his odds have risen over the last few days, the market has sold off."
The S&P 500 fell on Wednesday for the seventh day in a row, hitting a four-month low. The Dow Jones industrial average and Nasdaq have also sustained a string of losses for the last few years.
However, U.S. stock futures are not looking too poorly right now. They're slipping a tad, but it's nothing dramatic.
Meanwhile, European and Asian markets are showing mixed results.
Before the Bell newsletter: Key market news. In your inbox. Subscribe now!
3. Earnings: Adidas (ADDYY), Avon Products (AVP), Chesapeake Energy (CHK), Hyatt Hotels (H) and Time (TIME) are some of the key companies releasing earnings before the opening bell.
Shares in Adidas are falling by about 4% in Europe as investors express their disappointment with the results.
Coming up, CBS (CBS), Kraft Heinz (KHC), Starbucks (SBUX), Weight Watchers (WTW), GoPro (GPRO, Tech30), FireEye (FEYE) and Fossil (FOSL) are set to release their earnings after the close.
And shares in Wynn Resorts (WYNN) are dropping premarket after the company reported earnings that missed Wall Street estimates.
4. Think of England: Britain's plans to leave the European Union were thrown into confusion Thursday after a court ruled that members of parliament must be given a say in the process. The government had been fighting in court to avoid having members of parliament meddle in the Brexit negotiations.
The case will now move to the Supreme Court where the government is challenging the decision.
The Bank of England is set to issue a decision on interest rates Thursday, though market watchers are expecting the central bank will hold rates steady.
If that's the case, it will be at least the fourth major central bank in a week to hold rates, following the Federal Reserve, Bank of Japan and Reserve Bank of Australia.
5. Economics: Many of the elements that feed into the U.S. GDP report will pop up this morning, including reports on factory orders and worker productivity.
The European Union is also publishing its autumn economic forecast Thursday along with releasing new data on September unemployment levels.
Download CNN MoneyStream for up-to-the-minute market data and news
6. Coming this week:  Thursday - Bank of England's rate decision, CBS (CBS) and Starbucks (SBUX) earnings Friday - Jobs report, Adidas (ADDDF) earnings, International trade report
Experts say that's a higher rate than in many other developed nations. And the reality of the situation could be far worse than the numbers suggest.
 Women -- Japan's hidden asset
A lot of Japanese single women, whether working or unemployed, still live with their parents. "In that way, their poverty is hidden," said Aya Abe, a professor at Tokyo Metropolitan University who specializes in poverty issues.
Faced with a shrinking workforce and stagnating economy, Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe has tried to boost the role of women in the labor market in recent years. But many experts say his approach is more talk than action.
"Abe has said he wants a society where women can blossom to their full potential, but single women are already working to full capacity," said Chieko Akaishi, director of the Single Mothers Forum, an advocacy group. "What more does Abe want?"
 Why Japan is failing its women
Sixty percent of working women have part-time or temporary jobs, which don't provide the same safety net as full-time positions. Temporary workers are typically paid nearly 40% less than regular workers and receive fewer benefits.
In the absence of government moves to support single moms, some organizations are providing other solutions.
Nonprofit group Waku Waku operates free after-school and evening programs in a low income Tokyo neighborhood. Roughly two nights a week, it feeds as many as 50 children in local homes or temples.

The programs are a vital helping hand for women like Noriko, 37, a single mother of a 10-year-old daughter.
"It is a struggle every month, especially since my daughter is growing so rapidly," said Noriko, who declined to give her full name to protect her privacy. "I want to buy her new shoes and underwear, but I can't always afford it."
 Japan's female lawmakers are way behind Saudi Arabia's
Currently unemployed, she struggled to hold down a variety of part-time jobs in clerical work and elderly care after divorcing her husband nearly a decade ago.
She said she was harassed in many of the jobs because of her single mother status and her childcare responsibilities. She had to stop working following a car accident five years ago and is now on welfare.
Divorce is becoming more socially accepted in Japan, but the way it works often leaves women at a disadvantage.
 The Japanese government is trying to find your perfect match
More than 80% of all divorces go through without legal advice, and many women end up not receiving child support, said Izumi Nishio of Tokyo Bright Law Firm.
Without a financial foundation, many women rely on monthly welfare payments to get by.

Experts have advocated for changes to Japan's employment system and culture of long working hours to support working mothers.
 Career women battle Japan's 'salaryman' culture
But it will "take too long for labor market improvement to trickle down to single mothers," poverty expert Abe said. Increasing the amount of welfare assistance and reducing education costs are two ideas she suggested could help.
Until things change, women like Noriko and Yamada will continue to struggle.
Get the latest Asia news on the CNN MoneyStream app
Earlier this year, Yamada and her son moved in with her mother to help save on costs. She feels lucky to have family support, she said, but "it's been a difficult time."
-- With reporting from Mari Yamamoto, Chie Kobayashi and Jake Adelstein.