
Trump's verbal punching bag
Trump blames NAFTA for millions of lost jobs and thousands of shuttered factories in America. Nonpartisan congressional research concluded in 2015 that NAFTA didn't cause a jobs exodus.
About 14 million American jobs depend on trade with Canada and Mexico, according to the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, a business advocacy group.
But roughly 800,000 jobs were lost to Mexico between 1997 and 2013, to the Economic Policy Institute, a research group.
Related: Remember NAFTA? Talks are coming soon
NAFTA has been one of Trump's favorite punching bags. He lambasted NAFTA and Mexico throughout his presidential campaign, and threatened to slap tariffs on Mexican goods or tax American companies that move jobs south of the border.
In January, Trump briefly flirted with the idea of a 20% tariff on all Mexican exports to the United States. He also once threatened to withdraw from NAFTA.
Trump even credited his tough talk on NAFTA with getting him to the White House. Trump voters have told CNNMoney they voted for him in part to see him renegotiate better deals.
It's not clear how exactly Trump plans to get that better deal. But when U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer outlined the administration's NAFTA objectives in July, he included a top goal: reduce the U.S. trade deficit with Mexico, which last year hit $63 billion.
The top challenge for NAFTA
Trump's ultimate aim is to increase the number of American factory jobs. One possible way to do that is to force companies to produce more parts in the United States.
There is a key part of NAFTA known as "rules of origin." It means a certain percentage of parts in a product, such as a car, have to originate from North America.
For example, 62% of the parts in a car sold in either Mexico, Canada or the United States must come from there. The Trump administration has hinted it could raise that percentage and that it plans to more strictly enforce the standards for rules of origin.
Related: Renegotiating NAFTA -- in 15 easy steps
However, trade experts caution that forcing more parts to be made in America could mean car prices go up.
Here is Trump's top challenge for NAFTA: broker a deal that creates more manufacturing jobs but doesn't force Americans to pay more. Experts say he'll be hard pressed to accomplish both tasks.
A looming contradiction
Trump's team also runs the risk of contradicting a trade deal Trump bashed. Experts say his administration's list of NAFTA objectives is nearly identical to key parts of the Trans-Pacific Partnership, or TPP. Trump withdrew from that deal before it became law.
But U.S. Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross says TPP's sections on labor and environmental standards are a "starting point" for NAFTA negotiations with Mexico and Canada.
Trump promised Americans he would bring together the best negotiators to get a new deal. He appointed Ross, Lighthizer, National Economic Council Director Gary Cohn, and White House trade adviser Peter Navarro to lead on trade policy.
Lighthizer tapped John Melle, a career USTR official who was not nominated by Trump, to lead the talks. Melle was on the original USTR staff in 1993 that helped get the deal across the finish line in Congress. NAFTA became law in 1994.
A tight deadline
Time to renegotiate NAFTA is short.
Wednesday is the first day the United States is legally allowed to begin talks after checking off a lengthy list of requirements under American law.
Mexican officials say they want a deal done by the end of the year. Mexico has presidential elections next year and Mexican President Enrique Peña Nieto can't run again due to term limits.
Related: Spurned by Trump, China and Mexico talk up trade deal
Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador, the leading presidential candidate, promised voters he would get tough on trade with the United States. Mexican officials say getting a trade deal approved during Mexico's campaign season would be difficult.
NAFTA took years to negotiate. Trade experts say negotiating a new and significantly different deal in five months -- August to December -- is wishful thinking.
About 14 million U.S. jobs depend on trade with Canada and Mexico, and over $1 billion of commerce crosses the northern and southern U.S. borders each day.
2. Retail earnings continue: It's another big week for retail. Home Depot (HD) will report its second quarter earnings on Tuesday. Target (TGT) reports on Wednesday, and Walmart (WMT) and Gap (GPS) both report on Thursday.
Walmart delivered good news for investors when it released its first-quarter earnings in May. The retailer's profit exceeded expectations, its same-store sales rose and most importantly, its digital sales shot up by 63% compared to last year.
Target raised its profit forecast last month after sales improved. The announcement helped boost retail stocks, which have been hurting as consumers continue to lose interest in brick and mortar stores.
3. July retail sales report: The Census Bureau will release its estimate for July retail sales on Tuesday.
It's been a slow summer so far. Retail sales dropped 0.2% from May to June, marking the second consecutive decline and the third one this year. Americans are spending less at gas stations, grocery stores, department stores, restaurants and bars.
If consumer spending stays low, it'll be hard for Trump to deliver on his promise to get U.S. growth up to 3%.
4. August consumer sentiment: On Friday, the University of Michigan will release preliminary data for consumer confidence in August. The closely monitored monthly survey gives a good sense of whether American consumers are willing to spend money.
In January, when Trump was inaugurated, consumer confidence reached 98.5 -- the highest level in more than a decade. Confidence soared on hopes that Trump would cut taxes, reduce regulations and spend on infrastructure. Those plans have stalled, and consumer confidence fell to 93.4 in July.
5. Coming this week:
Tuesday -- Home Depot earnings
Wednesday -- NAFTA talks begin; Target earnings; Cisco (CSCO, Tech30) earnings
Thursday -- Walmart earnings; Gap earnings
Friday -- Consumer confidence preliminary data for August
This year, the total annual cost of benefits was nearly $13,500. Employers paid about $9,300 in premiums and contributions to employees' health savings accounts. Workers shelled out about $2,750 in premiums and another $1,400 in out-of-pocket costs for care, the industry group found.
Costs would have risen more, but companies will adjust their benefits packages to rein in expenses, as they do every year. This is the fifth year in a row that employers are keeping the increase to 5%.
Employer benefits are often more generous and less costly than coverage purchased on the individual market. Many insurers are asking for double-digit premium hikes on their Obamacare policies for 2018.
Related: Health care is one of the nation's biggest problems: Polls
To keep costs under control, nearly 40% of companies will offer only high-deductible plans next year, compared to 35% this year. Some 90% of firms will offer a high-deductible plan as an option, but that figure is expected to rise to 97% by 2020.
Companies are also looking to make health care more accessible. Some 54% will offer health centers on or near their locations, and that number could grow to nearly two-thirds by 2020. Nearly all employers will offer telehealth services in states where it is allowed.
Employers will also offer more health-related tools and services for their workers, such as providing care management to those with diabetes and other chronic diseases, said Alisa Ray, vice president at the industry group. And companies will seek to direct employees to particular hospitals and doctors based on their cost and quality.
The move, which is not yet an official investigation, could lay the groundwork for one. Lighthizer will recommend whether an official investigation into trade practices is warranted.
Should an investigation find wrongdoing, Trump could impose tariffs against Chinese imports, which would mark a significant escalation in his efforts to reshape the trade relationship between the world's two largest economies.
Related: Trump is getting ready to go after China on trade
Trump's call with Xi and his potential plans to open the broad trade investigation come against the backdrop of rising tensions over North Korea's nuclear and ballistic missile programs.
Trump planned to launch the trade investigation more than a week ago, but he delayed the move in favor of securing China's support for expanded U.N. sanctions against North Korea, the senior administration official said.
Trump has been trying for months to get China to exert more pressure on North Korea, but has recently expressed frustration with the lack of progress.

The trade investigation could strain relations between the U.S. and China as the two countries wrestle with the unpredictable situation over North Korea. Pyongyang this week threatened to fire missiles near the U.S. territory of Guam during an exchange of bellicose rhetoric with Trump.
"The United States government can, and does, work with countries to address serious concerns such as North Korea while also pursuing measures to address economic concerns, such as the theft of U.S. intellectual property," a U.S. National Security Council official said.
Related: Trump and China could still fall out badly over trade
It wasn't immediately clear how China would react to the move.
When reports of the potential trade investigation first emerged more than a week ago, China's Commerce Ministry stressed the importance of U.S.-China trade ties and of resolving differences "through dialogue and consultation."
"We would like to emphasize that the Chinese government has always attached importance to intellectual property protection," a spokesman said. "The results are there for all to see."

Trump, who has been residing at his golf club in Bedminster, New Jersey, for the past week, plans to return to Washington on Monday to officially announce the trade investigation.
The decision will not only take action against alleged Chinese violations of U.S. companies' intellectual property rights, but could also be perceived as an attempt by the U.S. government to crank up the pressure on Beijing to rein in North Korea.
"I think China can do a lot more," Trump told reporters on Thursday. "And I think China will do a lot more."
But experts say China, which accounts for around 90% of North Korea's foreign trade, is unwilling to squeeze Kim's regime hard enough to make it give up on its nuclear program because that would risk the chaotic collapse of a state that Beijing wants to keep as a strategic buffer.
Related: 4 ways China could hurt North Korea's economy
The trade investigation is expected to be only one part of a multi-pronged push by the Trump administration to counter perceived Chinese trade abuses, which Trump frequently railed against as a candidate.
The administration has been eyeing other moves to rebalance the U.S.-China trading relationship. But analysts have cautioned that Trump faces a huge challenge in his desire to significantly reduce the U.S. trade deficit with China, which last year stood at more than $300 billion.
"Protection measures against some specific items, such as steel and aluminum, may gain political favors, but are not likely to be of much help to rebalance trade," economists at the Institute of International Finance wrote in a research note this week.
-- Jethro Mullen contributed to this report.
"Today, planning and pricing for ACA-compliant health plans has become increasingly difficult due to a shrinking and deteriorating individual market, as well as continual changes and uncertainty in federal operations, rules and guidance, including cost sharing reduction subsidies and the restoration of taxes on fully insured coverage," the company said in a statement.
Related: Anthem exits more Obamacare markets
Anthem, which also offers policies under the HealthKeepers name in Virginia, is one of the largest players in the Obamacare exchanges nationwide. It is in 14 states this year, but has already announced it is withdrawing fully from the exchanges in Ohio, Indiana and Wisconsin, in addition to Nevada and Virginia. And it is curtailing its presence in California and Georgia.
Anthem was in 130 out of Virginia's 134 counties or cities this year, said Cynthia Cox, an associate director at the Kaiser Family Foundation. But a smaller insurer, Optima, plans to expand to 124 counties next year, from 35 now. The remaining counties will have other insurers on their exchanges.
Nearly 10,000 residents in 17 counties nationwide are at risk for having no Obamacare options next year, according to the Kaiser Family Foundation -- many of them because of Anthem's exits.
Related: Insurers get more time to finalize 2018 Obamacare premiums requests
Anthem is the third publicly traded insurer to leave Virginia, which has a rather robust exchange. UnitedHealth (UNH) and Aetna (AET) pulled out earlier this year. Anthem had wanted to raise rates in Virginia by 38%, on average.
Other insurers are expected to downsize their involvement or to hike rates further in coming weeks. Carriers have until September 5 to revise their premium requests and until September 27 to sign contracts for 2018.
Contura's IPO filing mentioned "Trump" 13 times, mostly highlighting his administration's efforts to revive the coal industry by slashing Obama-era environmental regulations.
But Contura said in a brief statement its principal selling shareholders agreed it would be unwise to proceed with the IPO "under current market conditions." It declined to comment beyond the statement it released.
That reasoning is somewhat surprising because Contura coal prices are very high right now despite all the challenges the industry faces.
"It's disconcerting, to say the least," said Andrew Cosgrove, senior metals and mining analyst at Bloomberg Intelligence. "If you can't get a deal done now, then when can you?"
Related: Signs of fear creep back on Wall Street
Contura makes most of its money from metallurgical coal, which is used to make steel. "Met" coal prices spiked to a record earlier this year after a cyclone knocked production offline in Australia, one of the world's largest coal exporters. Today, met coal is trading for around $200 per ton, which is high historically.
Contura also produces thermal coal, the type that's used in power plants. Thermal coal has come under enormous pressure from cheap natural gas. Still, thermal coal prices are above $90 per ton, which is also high for recent history.
Kevin Crutchfield, Contura's CEO, said in the statement that the company will weigh "all strategic options and opportunities to maximize the potential of our young company."
It's not clear if Contura's IPO was impacted by market volatility on Wall Street this week. The Dow dropped 205 points on Thursday, the index's worst day in nearly three months.
Beijing on Saturday joined the other 14 members of the United Nations Security Council in voting unanimously to impose new sanctions on North Korea for its continued intercontinental ballistic missile (ICBM) testing. The sanctions will slash North Korea's annual export revenue of $3 billion by more than a third, U.S. officials say.
But China, which accounts for over 90% of North Korea's international trade, is likely to resist any measures that would put the rogue nation's economy at risk of collapse.
Still, it has show a willingness this year to take targeted actions that add to economic pressure on North Korea.
Here are a few additional levers that China could pull:
1. Energy
Kim Jong Un's regime is hugely dependent on its production and exports of coal -- the vast majority of which have traditionally been sold to China.
It's the country's biggest source of currency, accounting for about a third of official exports in 2015.
That income was thrown into doubt in February when China said it would halt all coal imports from North Korea for the rest of the year.
Chinese imports of North Korean coal fell by 75% in the first half of this year, according to Chinese government data.
Beijing could increase pressure further by limiting sales of fuel to North Korea.
2. Banking
The United States and its allies have tried to squeeze the North Korean government's supply of money and cut it off from the global banking system.
But the U.S. for years resisted sanctioning Chinese banks thought to be doing business with North Korea.
Related: More North Korea sanctions? They haven't worked so far
That changed in June, when the Treasury Department blocked a Chinese bank with alleged illicit financial ties to Pyongyang from accessing the U.S. banking system.
U.S. Treasury officials didn't rule out the possibility that other banks could face similar pressure from the U.S. and other international partners.
The goal is to deny North Korea access to global banks and prevent it from accessing money that will be used on its nuclear program.
Beijing could direct its regulators to fine or otherwise sanction any banks still doing business with Pyongyang.
3. Cash
North Korea is thought to have racked up hefty "rainy day" funds from coal sales to China.
John Park, director of the Korea Working Group at the Harvard Kennedy School, said earlier this year that he believes Pyongyang has kept "very large sums" in China that the regime can use to buy what it wants for its weapons programs.
North Korea needs to skirt sanctions in order to maintain access to the international banking system and to keep doing business abroad -- often in major currencies including the dollar and yuan.
Restricting Pyongyang's access to that cash "boils down to the political will of the Chinese authorities to use domestic law to track down these funds," Park said.

4. Labor
North Korea has a wealthy elite in the capital, but most of its citizens are impoverished and it has in the past been blighted by famine.
It's also one of the most closed economies in the world, but the regime still finds ways to squeeze money out of the people it rules.
One way is sending thousands of North Korean workers abroad to toil under forced labor conditions in places like China, Russia and the Middle East, according to a U.N. report from 2015. They are believed to work in industries like mining, logging, textiles and construction. The North Korean government seizes a sizable amount of their wages.
Related: How North Korea makes its money
The practice is on full display in the Chinese border city of Dandong, a major hub for trade with North Korea.
The local government says on its website that 20% of the 50,000 workers employed in its garment industry are from North Korea. It says they work 12 or 14-hour shifts and are paid a monthly salary of roughly $260.
"North Korean workers were all politically vetted before they left the country. They are disciplined and easy to manage," the website says.
Sending these workers across the border would deny Pyongyang access to a critical source of foreign currency.
Beijing's priorities

The new U.N. resolution targeted North Korea's primary exports, including coal, iron, iron ore, lead, lead ore and seafood. The sanctions also target other revenue streams, such as banks and joint ventures with foreign companies.
It's not clear how much more China is willing to do.
"Who is executing each resolution regarding North Korea by the UNSC? It is in fact China who is executing them. Who is taking on the relevant costs? It is China who is taking on those costs," Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi told reporters on Sunday.
The scenario Beijing hopes to avoid is a total collapse of the government in Pyongyang, an event that would destabilize the region and likely send millions of North Korean refugees streaming across the Yalu river into China.
"Chinese leaders have no love for Kim Jong-un's regime or its nuclear weapons, but it dislikes even more the prospect of North Korea's collapse and the unification of the Korean Peninsula with Seoul as the capital," Richard Haass, president of the Council on Foreign Relations, wrote in March.
-- Shen Lu contributed reporting.
Trump has recently threatened to cut off the payments for the cost-sharing subsidies, which reduce deductibles and co-pays for lower-income enrollees. These payments, which go directly to insurers, are the subject of a court battle between the House of Representatives and the Trump administration, which inherited the case from the Obama administration.
If a new HealthCare Bill is not approved quickly, BAILOUTS for Insurance Companies and BAILOUTS for Members of Congress will end very soon!
Carriers that assumed the cost-sharing subsidy payments would be discontinued added between 2% to 23% to their premium requests for next year, according to a Kaiser Family Foundation survey of 21 major cities released this week.
Insurers that assumed the individual mandate would not be enforced requested an additional 1.2% to 20%. The mandate requires nearly all Americans to get coverage or pay a penalty. It is key to drawing in younger and healthier consumers.
Related: Trump-fueled uncertainty spurs Obamacare insurers to leave, hike premiums
The two major industry lobbying groups either declined to comment or did not return an email requesting a response to the new deadline.
Insurers have until September 27 to commit to participating in the exchanges next year. Open enrollment starts November 1.
Bank officials cited Venezuela's "political climate" and recent events for its decision. That appears to refer to a vote on July 30 that many say turned Venezuela into a dictatorship.
"Credit Suisse does not want to be involved in any transaction or any action which could be perceived as enabling the current Venezuelan regime to continue to violate the Venezuelan people's human rights," according to an internal memo at Credit Suisse sent earlier this week.
Related: Trump sanctions 8 more Venezuelan leaders
Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro organized the vote, which most nations called a foregone conclusion. It allowed him to replace the opposition-held National Assembly with an entirely new legislature filled with Maduro supporters.
The new legislature, the Constituent Assembly, has already thrown out the Attorney General, a critic of Maduro, while the Supreme Court sentenced another political opponent to 15 months in prison.
Handling Venezuelan debt has become an extremely divisive issue. The country's bonds are highly profitable. Even as the government's revenues and reserves have plunged, it has made consistent payments and pays a high interest rate.
But many say those bond payments come at the expense of ordinary Venezuelans who are starving and dying from food and medical shortages.
Related: Venezuela is inching closer to default
Venezuelans opposed to Maduro's regime argue that banks buying the government's bonds are providing a lifeline of financing and support to a dictatorship. Months of clashes between Venezuela's national guard and protesters have left over 120 dead.
A Credit Suisse spokesperson said the bank banned the government bond because bank officials believed the cash to buy the bond would go directly to the government. Credit Suisse banned the PDVSA bond because Goldman Sachs purchased it in May - drawing the ire of Venezuelans.
At the time, Goldman said it invested in the bonds because it believes the situation in the South American nation will improve over time.
A Goldman spokesperson told CNNMoney Friday that "we do not support the Maduro regime and will not do business with it."
Related: Venezuela's hyperinflation is jaw-dropping
Harvard Professor and Venezuelan Ricardo Hausmann penned an Op-Ed in May calling on JPMorgan (JPM) to remove Venezuelan bonds from its Emerging Market Bond Index, a popular investment held by mutual fund managers who invest on behalf of millions of Americans with 401(k) plans.
Hausmann calls Venezuela's bonds "hunger bonds."
Removing Venezuelan bonds from the index "would allow you to root for higher returns on your savings without wishing for human misery," he said.
A JPMorgan spokesperson told CNNMoney that its bond index is a reflection of economic data and cash available in financial markets, not a country's policies. The spokesperson added that it allows clients to buy the bond index without Venezuelan bonds included, if a client requests that. JPMorgan does not hold the two specific bonds that Credit Suisse is banning.
Since late July, President Trump has slapped sanctions on 22 Venezuelan leaders, including Maduro. Most Latin American countries say they won't recognize Maduro's new legislature.
Investors have been focusing on red-hot corporate profits, but talk of "fire and fury" turned attention to the risk of a nuclear conflict with North Korea. Others worried about lofty market valuations and pockets of weakness like the mounting red ink at JCPenney (JCP) and Snap (SNAP), both of which crashed to record lows on Friday.
And several high-profile investors like Ray Dalio and Jeff Gundlach offered buzzkills by suggesting that the second-longest bull market in history at least needs to take a breather.
"This selloff could be more than just a North Korea induced blip on the screen," Peter Boockvar, chief market analyst at The Lindsey Group, wrote in a report on Friday.
Related: Is the bull run? Stocks get shellacked
The bears aren't exactly back in control. The Dow rose slightly on Friday after shedding 205 points the day before, its worst slide in nearly three months. The Nasdaq climbed about 0.6%, bouncing back from a drop of 2%.
That means at least some investors are betting this market retreat will prove fleeting, just as countless others have. The economy looks healthy. So do the bottom lines of many major companies. Most Americans are hoping the tough talk from President Trump and North Korean leader Kim Jong Un is just that.
"North Korea will blow over and given the sentiment, we could see a rally back to new highs" by the end of next week, Michael Block, chief market strategist at Rhino Trading Partners, wrote in a report on Friday.
Still, the past few days of turbulence mark a significant shift after an unusually long period of quiet on Wall Street.
Yes, the VIX (VIX) volatility index remains historically low at just 15.4. But it has skyrocketed 74% since an all-time low on July 26. It's experienced the biggest weekly rise since December 2015.
CNNMoney's Fear & Greed Index has also flipped back into "fear" territory after sitting solidly in "greed" just last week.

Cracks in the stock market rally led some investors to put their cash in havens like precious metals and ultra-safe government bonds. Gold has rallied 2.6% this week, while the 10-year Treasury yield touched a six-week low of 2.1%.
Gold got a boost from Dalio, the mercurial founder of the world's biggest hedge fund, Bridgewater Associates. The billionaire warned on LinkedIn that investors should have 5% to 10% of their assets in gold because "risks are rising."
Related: Millions of Americans can't feel record stock prices
North Korea could just be an excuse for people to cash in winning stocks, especially tech companies like Apple (AAPL, Tech30) and Facebook (FB, Tech30). But investors are paying close attention to Trump's North Korea warnings, including his tweet on Friday that "military solutions" are "locked and loaded."
"The prospect of war still remains remote in our view, but at what point do both sides heat up the rhetoric so much that they can't turn back?" Bespoke Investment Group asked in a report on Friday.
So is this week's market turbulence just a blip or the start of the first downturn in a very long time? The S&P 500 hasn't pulled back by 5% or more since June 2016. That's the longest streak since 1996.
If tensions with North Korea de-escalate and the U.S. economy remains on track, it's easy to see how stocks could quickly climb to new heights.
One potential obstacle is the world's central banks, which are providing less support for markets these days. The Federal Reserve could soon begin to shrink its balance sheet, and the European Central Bank could taper its bond purchases.
Central banks are "not your BFF anymore," and "market valuations are very high," Boockvar wrote. This leaves "no room for error."
JCPenney is the latest department store chain to announce dismal results. Macy's (M), Kohl's (KSS) and Dillard's (DDS) all reported a decline in same store sales on Thursday as they struggle to compete against Amazon (AMZN, Tech30) and Walmart (WMT).
The massive shift in the retail landscape has led many chains to shut down underperforming stores.
JCPenney is one of them, announcing earlier this year it would be closing 138 stores. JCPenney wound up delaying the closings by a month though after consumers rushed to many of the stores to take advantage of the massive liquidation sales.
But JCPenney CEO Marvin Ellison said the inventory liquidation is now largely complete and that the smaller and more focused company is actually off to a good start for the key back-to-school shopping season.
Ellison said sales of all apparel -- and kids' clothing in particular -- were doing well so far this month. As a result, the company said it is not changing its earnings outlook for the year. It still expects a profit, but same store sales are likely to be flat.
Related: Retail apocalypse continues at department stores
JCPenney is also looking to expand its online operations in order to be more competitive with Amazon and Walmart.
And Ellison said during a conference call with analysts that the company is continuing to focus on adding newer products, such as toys and appliances. The goal is to make JCPenney less reliant on clothing, shoes and furniture.
But turning around JCPenney won't be easy. The company's CFO stepped down in July -- never a good sign. He was replaced by the former finance chief of Olive Garden owner Darden Restaurants (DRI). (Maybe JCPenney should now start selling breadsticks?)
Ellison also said during the analyst call that JCPenney expects many retailers to ramp up promotions and discounts to try and lure shoppers into their stores. The CEO warned these sales may be even more aggressive than "what we've traditionally seen."
Ellison expressed confidence that JCPenney won't have to cut its earnings guidance as a result of tougher competition from its rivals. Wall Street remains skeptical.
Chuck Grom, an analyst for Gordon Haskett, wrote in a research report on Friday that being a JCPenney investor is "almost as depressing as being a NY Jets season ticketholder" -- a reference to the perennially bad football team.
It's hard to imagine how things could have gotten worse for JCPenney after hedge fund manager Bill Ackman tried and failed to shake the company up a few years ago.
But JCPenney's stock has fallen more than 50% so far in 2017 and has plummeted 85% over the past five years.
Remember the awkward JCPenney marketing slogan tried during the 2014 Winter Olympics? "When it fits, you feel it?" Well, investors aren't feeling it -- and neither are consumers.
The latest controversy centers on Wells Fargo Merchant Services, a joint venture that is 60% owned by Wells Fargo and 40% controlled by First Data (FDC).
A former employee of the Wells Fargo (WFC) business told CNNMoney that he was instructed to target these small businesses.
"We used to be told to go out and club the baby seals: mom-pop-shops that had no legal support," he said in an interview. The former Wells Fargo employee spoke on the condition of anonymity, but CNNMoney verified that he worked for Wells Fargo Merchant Services.
The former Wells Fargo employee told CNNMoney that when he worked there, from 2011 to 2013, it was nearly impossible for business owners to leave the merchant agreement. "God would have had a hard time" escaping the contract, he said. "It really was like a shady used car deal."
Related: Wells Fargo customer: It felt like my car was held as extortion
One of the plaintiffs in the suit, Queen City Tours, claims it was assessed a $500 early termination fee after trying to leave Wells Fargo Merchant Services.
The North Carolina company, which focuses on African-American themed tours in Charlotte and is owned by military veteran Juan Whipple, alleges in the lawsuit that Wells Fargo charged it monthly fees of $20 to $35 for failing to have a minimum number of transactions. That's despite the fact that the company claims the contract said there would be no such fees. The tour company says in the lawsuit that its business is seasonal, and that it has few sales during off-peak months.
The second plaintiff, the Pennsylvania restaurant Patti's Pitas, claims it was "pounded by excessive fees" -- even after it went out of business in May 2017. When Patti's Pitas tried to leave the contract, it was told it couldn't because of a three-year term that the owner wasn't aware of, the lawsuit said. Wells Fargo, which was already under heavy legal scrutiny regarding unauthorized bank and credit card accounts, eventually closed the account without a termination fee.
Regarding the lawsuit, the bank said, "We deny these claims and intend to defend against [it]." The company added that it believes its "negotiated pricing terms are fair and were administrated appropriately."
Wells Fargo declined to respond to the specific claims by the former employee.
First Data also declined to comment to CNNMoney.
Related: Wells Fargo is once again in hot water
The overbilling allegations are the latest black eye for Wells Fargo. Nearly a year ago, the bank admitted it created some two million potentially unauthorized bank and credit card accounts. Wells Fargo recently said an ongoing review of earlier accounts is likely to reveal many more fake accounts.
Wells Fargo has taken countless steps to try to fix its broken culture, including reforming the unrealistic sales goals that were at the heart of the scandal. The bank has also replaced its senior management and conducted an exhaustive internal investigation that uncovered red flags going back to 2004.
But Wells Fargo has landed back in hot water in recent weeks. Late last month, the company said it charged as many as 570,000 customers for car insurance they didn't need. About 20,000 of those customers may have had their vehicles repossessed in part because of those unnecessary insurance costs.
Wells Fargo has apologized for the auto insurance fiasco and promised to refund those customers affected. A New York regulator subpoenaed two Wells Fargo divisions last week demanding the bank turn over loan agreements and other documents, a person familiar with the matter told CNNMoney.
Samir Hanef, a clinical social worker from North Carolina, is one of the Wells Fargo customers who had his car repossessed.
"I was forced to pay for Wells Fargo's mistake," Hanef told CNNMoney.
But the strength of the agreement now appears to be fading.
The IEA, which monitors energy market trends for the world's richest countries, said that compliance by OPEC countries dropped to a new low of 75% in July. The rate for non-OPEC producers was even weaker at 67%.
Within OPEC, the United Arab Emirates and Iraq were among the worst offenders, while Kuwait and de-facto cartel leader Saudi Arabia pumped within the allocated limit. Mexico was the only non-OPEC signatory in full compliance.
In total, the group produced 470,000 barrels a day more than agreed.
Related: OPEC almost always cheats
Since 1989, OPEC has hammered out several production cuts just like the one it negotiated in 2016. And in that period, OPEC producers have pumped more oil than their quotas in all but a handful of months.
The effectiveness of the latest production cut has been hampered by increased output in the United States.
Related: Oil races back to $50 -- but can it stay there?
The IEA assessed Friday that stronger-than-expected demand is now helping to make the market more balanced. But it warned that producers need to work harder to convince investors of their resolve.
"If re-balancing is to be maintained, the producers that are committed to seeing the task through to March 2018 need to convince the market that they are in it together," the report said. "It is not entirely clear that this is the case today."
Investors are increasingly nervous: The VIX volatility index, a closely-watched "fear gauge," is up 70% since Tuesday. Meanwhile, the CNNMoney Fear & Greed Index has swung firmly into the fear zone.
President Trump took aim at North Korea again on Thursday, saying that his earlier threat to unleash "fire and fury" may not have gone far enough.
The latest rhetorical escalation comes after North Korean state media reported that the country's military leaders were working on a proposal to launch four intermediate-range missiles into the sea less than 25 miles off Guam's coast.
The Dow Jones industrial average closed 0.9% lower on Thursday, while the S&P 500 dropped 1.5% and the Nasdaq shed 2.1%.
2. Google cancels town hall: Google's (GOOGL, Tech30) diversity scandal took another awkward twist on Thursday when CEO Sundar Pichai canceled a scheduled all-hands staff meeting just moments before it was set to begin.
The town hall meeting was meant to address concerns over a controversial essay published by a former employee.
Pichai said that questions from employees had been leaked and that, in some cases, specific employees' identities were revealed, exposing them to harassment and threats.
3. Snap troubles: Shares in Snap (SNAP) fell sharply in extended trading after it reported a steep loss, disappointing sales and weak user growth.
Losses at the Snapchat parent ballooned to $443 million in the second quarter, a nearly fourfold increase from the same period last year.
The messaging service added just 7 million new daily active users in the quarter, falling short of estimates.
Before the Bell newsletter: Key market news. In your inbox. Subscribe now!
4. Stock market movers -- Nvidia: Shares in Nvidia (NVDA, Tech30) plunged 7% in extended trading despite releasing a strong earnings report that topped Wall Street's forecasts. The stock is up 54% so far this year.
5. Earnings and economics: J. C. Penney (JCP) is scheduled to release its earnings before the open Friday.
The Bureau of Labor Statistics will publish its July inflation report at 8:30 a.m. ET.
Download CNN MoneyStream for up-to-the-minute market data and news
6. Coming this week:
Friday -- U.S. inflation report; J. C. Penney
In a Gallup poll also released Thursday, 17% of Americans identified health care as the nation's biggest problem. While dissatisfaction with the government/poor leadership took the top spot, health care beat out unemployment and jobs by more than two-to-one and the economy by nearly three-to-one.
Republicans and Democrats were nearly tied in naming health care as the most important problem, with 21% of the GOP and 19% of Democrats mentioning it, Gallup found.
Related: CNN Poll: Nearly seven in 10 judge Congress a failure so far
The majority of Americans (56%) want the two parties to work together to make changes to health care policy, according to CNN's survey. The rest are divided: Just over one in five said the GOP should both stop trying to repeal Obamacare completely (21%), and the same share said Republicans should keep trying to repeal it anyway (21%).
CNN's Ryan Struyk and Jennifer Agiesta contributed to this report.
The Nasdaq, Wall Street's home to many high profile tech companies, finished the day down more than 2%. That's a much steeper drop than the ones experienced by the Dow and S&P 500.
Shares of Apple (AAPL, Tech30), Amazon (AMZN, Tech30) and Facebook (FB, Tech30) fell more than 2% Thursday.
Netflix (NFLX, Tech30) and red hot chip company Nvidia (NVDA, Tech30) dropped around 4%.
However these stocks -- along with tech giants Microsoft (MSFT, Tech30) and Alphabet (GOOGL, Tech30), Google's parent -- have been among the top performers all year. Apple is still up 35% for 2017 and hovers near a record high.
Nvidia soared 55% this year after notching the biggest gains in the S&P 500 in 2016. (But it fell further in after hours trading Thursday despite releasing a strong earnings report that topped Wall Street's forecasts.)
It makes sense that investors would start to cut their positions in some of their winners and look for other investments that might be better bets for a rockier period for the markets and global economy.
Related: Eerie quiet on Wall Street is finally broken
To that end, gold prices shot up to near $1,300 an ounce -- their highest level in several months.
The yield on the 10-year Treasury bond fell to 2.2% and is approaching its lowest level of the year. That is significant because yields fall when bond prices rise.
In other words, investors are dumping stocks and buying bonds, which many view as a safe haven in times of turmoil.
Defense companies look like a safe bet. Lockheed Martin (LMT), Northrop Grumman (NOC), Raytheon (RTN) and L3 Technologies (LLL) hit record highs for a second straight day. The strong performance of these companies is clearly related to the North Korea drama.
But in some respects, investors do seem more scared.
The VIX (VIX), a measure of Wall Street volatility, spiked more than 30% Thursday. CNNMoney's Fear & Greed Index, which looks at the VIX and six other gauges of market sentiment, tipped toward Fear.
The index was showing signs of Greed just two days ago while the Dow was in the midst of a winning streak that included nine straight record highs.
Still, the market has had several fits and starts over the past few months.
The Dow fell for eight straight days back in March. That was the longest losing streak since 2011. But the market quickly bounced back, led by many of the tech stocks that were sinking on Thursday.
So it looks like the new normal on Wall Street might be a return of volatility.
Investors are no longer ignoring headlines -- and their mood may turn on a dime.
It's yet another sign that the rise of Amazon (AMZN, Tech30) and resurgence of Walmart (WMT) have taken a toll on many traditional retailers.
Shares of Nordstrom (JWN), which will report its latest results after the closing bell Thursday, also fell. So did J.C. Penney (JCP), which will release its earnings Friday morning. Sears Holdings (SHLD) and Target (TGT) got whacked too.
All of these old-school retailers are grappling with how to get customers in the door. Many have resorted to big discounts and promotions -- and that has hurt their profits.
Dillard's CEO William Dillard said in the company's earnings release that "significant markdowns led to a disappointing loss" in the quarter, adding that sales of shoes, cosmetics and furniture were disappointing.
Related: Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos briefly dethroned Bill Gates as world's richest person
Retailers have had a tough time managing the transition to e-commerce while also making sure their brick-and-mortar stores keep foot traffic moving.
Macy's CEO Jeff Gennette, who replaced longtime CEO Terry Lundgren earlier this year, stressed in the earnings release that Macy's is continuing to invest in "accelerated growth in digital and mobile." But he added "there is still work ahead of us."
Simply put, retailers have to do a better job of offering products consumers want at affordable prices.
But Antony Karabus, CEO of consulting firm HRC Retail Advisory, said in a recent report that's easier said than done.
"Significant market share becoming available as a result of bankruptcies and store closures should have produced sales growth for traditional retailers -- but sadly this hasn't occurred," Karabus noted in his report.
That's because along with Amazon, discounters like Walmart and fast-fashion apparel brands such as H&M and Zara are stealing more market share. And that trend is unlikely to change anytime soon.
E*TRADE senior manager David Russell referred to the problems facing traditional stores as "the retail ice age" in a report Thursday. Sounds about right.
Toys 'R' Us left the the area in December 2015, just days after the Christmas holiday.
That 110,000 square-foot flagship location, which opened in 2001, drew streams of tourists with its over-the-top décor -- including an enormous T-Rex robot, life-size Barbie Dreamhouse and a 60-foot indoor Ferris wheel.
Related: Shoppers flock to Toys 'R' Us on final day in Times Square
When Toys 'R' Us shuttered that shop, it said that it chose not to renew its lease in order to "realize meaningful rent savings." The property owner said it would divide up the space previously occupied by the toy retailer to create multiple shops for new tenants.
Toys 'R' Us said its temporary return to Times Square -- just down the street from its old location -- comes "in response to customer demand."
The shop will stock all the fan-favorite toys, Toys 'R' Us says, and feature some of its trademark decorations, including a "scaled-down" version of its animatronic dinosaur. The enormous robotic T-Rex that stood in the old Times Square location could move its head and roar at visitors.
It's not clear if the company is planning to make a more permanent move back to Times Square. Joe Contrino, a spokesperson, said the lease for the temporary store will last "through at least the 2017 holiday season."
Step 1. Start with retirement accounts
Your company 401(k) plan is a good entry point. Financial planners advise you stash away at least 10% of every paycheck for retirement.
It may not sound like a lot, but the magic of compounding will surprise you.
"If a young professional, say she is 25, earns $50,000 per year, saves $5,000 each year, and places this money into her company's 401(k) balanced mutual fund or even an ETF, which earns 8% annually on average; she could end up with $1.3 million in retirement assets," said John Barnes, a certified financial planner with Barnes Financial.
That number assumes no company matches, additional contributions or salary increases.
The 5-minute 401(k) investment plan
But in reality, you'll probably earn more money over the course of your life.
A better strategy is to slowly increase your contributions over time as you get raises, until you reach the legal maximum -- currently $18,000 a year.
After that, you can invest any additional money in an IRA or a taxable mutual fund account.
Step 2. Figure out how comfortable you are with risk
Generally speaking, the younger you are, the more risk you can afford to take on.
The stock market can be volatile, but young people have a unique opportunity to take on risk because they have plenty of time to recover from market setbacks before retirement. So it's pretty common for people under age 30 to have 90% or even 100% of their savings in the stock market, said Pearce Landry-Wegener, a wealth management advisor at the Summit Place Financial Advisors.
But asset allocation -- or how you divide up your money between stocks, bonds, cash or other investments -- is a completely personal choice.
If you're not all that comfortable with risk or need money in the next few years, invest a larger chunk of your money in safer assets like bonds.
Step 3. Diversify, but keep it simple
So you know you want, say, 90% stocks and 10% bonds. Now what?
You can offset some of the stock market's risk by spreading your money around in a variety of different investments.
For newbies with a limited amount of money, investing in mutual funds or exchange-traded funds (ETFs) is the way to go. ETFs and mutual funds are securities that track a basket of stocks, bonds, commodities and indexes -- like the S&P 500 index, for instance. With just one fund, you're investing in a variety of different underlying investments.
Related: Millennials love these 10 ETF funds
And you don't need many funds to be diversified.
Mychal Eagleson, president of An Exceptional Life Financial, recommends a portfolio with just three funds: a total U.S. stock fund, and total international stock fund, and a total bond market fund.
In some cases, just one fund is enough.
For instance, some retirement accounts offer target-date mutual funds. Rather than selecting different funds to create the right mix of stocks and bonds yourself, a target-date fund will do it for you.
Pick one target-date fund around the time you plan to retire. The investment mix will change over time, transitioning into more conservative assets as you get closer to retirement.
"Set it and forget it! And don't try to get sexy with your money," said Randy Bruns, a certified financial planner with HighPoint Planning Partners. "Time in the market, not timing the market, is how you'll become a multi-millionaire."
Step 4. Keep fees as low as possible
When choosing what to invest in, don't forget to look at the fees each fund charges.
It's important to select funds with low fees to get the biggest bang for your buck, because the charges can eat away at your returns over the years.
Look for funds that are cheaper than average. The average ETF expense ratio (aka fee) is 0.24%, and the average for target-date funds is 0.71%, according to Morningstar.
"You can't control what the market as a whole does," Landry-Wedener said. "What you can control is how much of your return is taken away in fees."
The closure was reported earlier by The Dallas Morning News.
Related: Mice caught on tape at a Dallas Chipotle
Chipotle, which has more than 2,200 restaurants in the United States, has had a rough stretch.
A location in Virginia had to be closed last month when people contracted norovirus or a similar illness after eating there. And hundreds fell ill with E. coli and norovirus in 2015 at about a dozen restaurants.
Chipotle (CMG) stock has lost more than half its value in two years. It was down about 2% on Thursday.
"If you have fewer workers, we will have less economic growth," said Kimberly Burham, a managing director at the Penn Wharton Budget Model, a nonpartisan research team at UPenn.
Related: Trump immigration policy poses risk to job market
Economists say the U.S. economy depends on foreign workers to grow the labor force and maintain growth. Since 2000, Baby Boomers have been retiring at a much faster pace than the U.S. job market has been growing, according to data from the Atlanta Federal Reserve and Labor Department.
There were 27 million foreign-born workers in the United States last year, government figures show.
"Immigrants, especially new immigrants, are highly productive and if we decrease that number, that will harm economic growth in the short and long run," said Burham.
The White House claimed the Wharton study had "major methodological faults" and that the economic gains it assumes come "at the expense of American workers."
"The estimates show that the job 'losses' under their RAISE Act model are far smaller than the reduction of foreign workers - effectively meaning a net increase in available jobs for Americans. The passage of the RAISE Act would raise wages and increase economic opportunity for Americans who have been left behind under the failed policies of past administrations," a White House official told CNNMoney.
The RAISE Act seeks to limit the ability of immigrants to get permanent residency in the form of green cards, restricts immediate family members who can be sponsored for visas and eliminates the international diversity lottery. Instead of replacing those green cards, it would overhaul the employment-based visa system, switching over to a point-based system that places heavy emphasis on higher education, salary and English-language skills.
Another analysis, shared first with CNN, found that blocking low-skilled immigrants from entering or staying in the country could also have vast ramifications for small business creation in the U.S.
Low-skilled immigrants have started millions of small businesses in the U.S., despite having less than a bachelor's degree, according to New American Economy, an advocacy group founded by Michael Bloomberg.
According to the group's analysis of Census Bureau data, more than 2.1 million immigrant entrepreneurs in the U.S. don't have a bachelor's degree. Of those 2.1 million, 445,000 had businesses in construction and more than 100,000 were in landscaping or building services.
Under the RAISE Act's point system, it would be almost impossible for an immigrant with just a high school education to qualify for long-term residency in the U.S.
Related: How to earn 'points' to come to the U.S. under Trump's immigration plan
The group also pointed to past studies that have found that in 2010, one in 10 Americans in the private sector were employed by an immigrant-owned business, that immigrants are twice as likely as U.S.-born Americans to start their own business and that immigrants own more than one-quarter of Main Street businesses in the U.S., including over half of grocery stores and one-third of restaurants.
Supporters of the bill argue that it will raise wages for working Americans and increase the portion of college-educated immigrants who enter the country legally.
"We will build an immigration system that raises working wages, creates jobs, and gives every American a fair shot at creating wealth, whether your family came over on the Mayflower or just took the oath of citizenship," Cotton said when introducing the bill last week.
Despite the White House's support, the bill has little chance of passing in its current form. Many Republicans who support a merit-based system would prefer one that also values low-skilled immigrants, especially lawmakers with heavy agricultural constituencies.
When asked about the bill, Senate Majority Whip John Cornyn called it a conversation starter and a "beginning not the end."
Related: Trump moves to slap duties on Chinese aluminum foil
In a statement posted on its website Thursday, the Chinese Ministry of Commerce said the U.S. claims were "without foundation."
"China urges the U.S. to act cautiously and make a fair decision to avoid any negative impact on the normal economic and trade exchanges between China and the U.S.," the ministry said.
It also referenced an investigation ordered by President Trump in April into whether aluminum imported from foreign countries hurts U.S. national security.
The U.S. Commerce Department has said the move to impose duties on Chinese aluminum foil is separate from the national security investigation, the results of which haven't been announced.

Beijing complained that the U.S. decision to impose duties on aluminum foil ignored the "active cooperation" of the Chinese government and businesses.
The U.S. Commerce Department said in its statement this week that two Chinese companies participated in the process.
Related: Trump getting ready to go after China on trade
The complaint that started the process came from the Aluminum Association, a group of American aluminum foil producers.
Its petition identified more than 230 Chinese companies it said were involved in dumping aluminum on the U.S. market, according to the Commerce Department.
In 2016, imports of aluminum foil from China were worth roughly $389 million, the department said. It expects to announce its final decision in the case around October 23.
The Trump administration has given mixed messages on its trade stance toward China.
Last week, it appeared set to announce an investigation into whether Chinese trade practices are unfair, notably in terms of their impact on American intellectual property.
But the move so far hasn't happened. Some analysts say they believe Trump held off in return for Chinese cooperation on U.N. sanctions against North Korea.
-- Serenitie Wang contributed reporting.
Snap posted a whopping $2.2 billion loss in the first quarter.
2. Blue Apron earnings: Blue Apron (APRN) will publish its latest numbers before the opening bell.
The company's June IPO was a disappointment, and its stock has lost more than 35% of its value since then.
Competition in the fresh food and meal kit delivery market is already tough. It's only going to get tougher when Amazon's (AMZN, Tech30) purchase of Whole Foods (WFM) is completed.
3. Oil in focus: U.S. oil futures edged 0.5% higher as investors awaited the latest monthly oil market report from OPEC.
Oil was trading just below $50 per barrel.
Investors will look at the level of compliance with a production cut agreement that was struck last year and extended in May.
OPEC and other major producers hoped the deal would help end a supply glut and send prices higher.
4. Global market overview: Investors are still processing the war of words between the United States and North Korea.
The VIX volatility index surged 25% on Wednesday, and the CNNMoney Fear & Greed Index swung to neutral after days of sitting in the greed territory.
The Dow Jones industrial average closed 0.2% lower, while the Nasdaq shed 0.3%. The S&P 500 was flat.
U.S. stock futures were lower on Thursday. European markets were lower in early trade following a rough session in Asia.
Before the Bell newsletter: Key market news. In your inbox. Subscribe now!
5. Earnings and economics: Scores of companies are set to report earnings.
Canada Goose (GOOS), Kohl's (KSS) and Macy's (M) will publish their results before the open, while News Corp. (NWSA), Noodles & Co (NDLS), Nordstrom (JWN) and NVIDIA (NVDA, Tech30) will follow after the close.
The U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics will release its July producer prices report at 8:30 a.m. ET.
At the same time, the Department of Labor will release its weekly data on initial unemployment claims.
Mexico's central bank will announce an interest rates decision at 2 p.m. ET.
Download CNN MoneyStream for up-to-the-minute market data and news
6. Coming this week:
Thursday -- Snap (SNAP), Blue Apron (APRN), NVIDIA (NVDA, Tech30), Macy's (M), Nordstrom (JWN), News Corp (NWSA), and Kohl's (KSS) report earnings Friday -- U.S. inflation report; J. C. Penney
Insurers that assumed the individual mandate would not be enforced added between 1.2% to 20% to their premium requests. The mandate -- which requires nearly all Americans get coverage or pay a penalty -- is key to encouraging younger and healthier consumers to enroll.
Carriers that assumed the cost-sharing subsidy payments would be discontinued requested an additional 2% to 23%. The payments, which go directly to insurers, reduce the deductibles and co-pays of lower-income Obamacare enrollees. They are also at the center of a court battle between the House and the Trump administration, which inherited the lawsuit from the Obama administration.
"While the market was starting to stabilize this year, the uncertainty about how the Trump administration will approach the program is driving rate increases higher, and in some cases, pushing insurers to exit the market," said Larry Levitt, a senior vice president at the non-partisan research group.
Related: Pressure grows for Trump to fund Obamacare subsidies
The Trump administration said that insurers were hiking premiums and leaving the market before they took charge, which is why Obamacare must be repealed and replaced.
"Since Obamacare went into effect under the previous administration, skyrocketing healthcare costs and fewer choices have become the norm," said Alleigh Marré, national spokeswoman for the Department of Health and Human Services. "This analysis confirms what we already knew - Obamacare is flawed, failing, and harming the American people."
Kaiser, which looked at insurer filings in 21 major cities, warned that these findings may change. Insurers have until Aug. 16 to amend their rate requests and until Sept. 27 to commit to participating next year.
Some insurers said they would raise their rates by an additional 3% to 10% if the cost-sharing question remained unresolved or if the payments end by the filing deadline, Kaiser found.
Requested premium increases for the benchmark silver plan, upon which premium subsidies are based, vary widely by city. They range from a 5% decrease in Providence, Rhode Island, to a 49% spike in Wilmington, Delaware.
Related: Anthem exits more Obamacare markets
Most Obamacare enrollees, however, won't feel these rate hikes. Some 84% receive federal subsidies that reduce their premiums to less than 10% of their income. Next year, a single adult earning $30,000 a year will pay $201 a month for coverage regardless of the sticker price.
However, about 6.7 million people who buy coverage in the individual market could be hit by these premium spikes since they don't qualify for federal subsidies, according to a separate Kaiser analysis, which first appeared in Axios Thursday.
On Friday, Walmart spokesman Charles Crowson confirmed to CNNMoney that the company has determined that the incident was the result of mischief. He declined to elaborate, but he said the investigation was conducted by multiple employees who worked "many hours" to get to the bottom of the situation.
uhhhh @Walmart we need to talk pic.twitter.com/Fwb4UdXf1D

Last September, a Walmart in Panama City Beach put up stacked boxes of Coca-Cola to resemble the World Trade Center in an apparent attempt to commemorate 9/11. Walmart corporate said it didn't mean any disrespect and the display was quickly taken down.
In 2014, the company apologized for selling a "fat girl" costume on its website.
The new positions come after the NFL experienced a ratings slump last year caused by competition from the presidential election, poor match-ups and an oversaturation of games.
It also received complaints from coaches and players about missed or incorrect calls made by officials. That's despite their accuracy rate of over 97%.
Related: This NFL player's retirement is brought to you by Kingsford charcoal
The NFL and the NFL Referees Association announced the addition of 21-24 new positions on Wednesday. Currently the league has 124 part-time officials and those employees will be able to apply for the full-time positions. Most of the NFL officials this season will still be part-time workers.
The NFL and the NFLRA said in a joint press release that they'll be working to figure out how to use the new, full-time officials when they're not working games and during the off-season. As it stands now, officials are currently off from February after the Super Bowl until April when they have their health physicals.
Many officials already work about 40 hours a week, even though they're only part-time employees. They balance their NFL jobs with work as attorneys, insurance agents and teachers.
While it's unclear how much full-time officials will make, current officials earn between $75,000 and $200,000 for the season.
The new law takes aim at on-call scheduling, whereby employees are tapped to work on short notice. This often causes workers' schedules to fluctuate a great deal, and makes planning for child care and transportation more difficult.
It's a particularly common practice for workers in lower-wage industries, such as fast food and retail.
One in six Oregonians receive less than 24 hours of notice before their shifts, according to a survey the University of Oregon Labor Education and Research Center published in February.
Related: Does your employer offer these 5 key benefits?
Now, Oregon is mandating that the state's largest employers in the retail, hospitality and food service industries -- those with more than 500 workers -- give employees their schedules in writing at least a week ahead of time.
They'll also have to give workers a 10-hour break between shifts, or pay them extra.
The law goes into effect in July 2018.
Starting in 2020, affected employers will have to give workers their schedules two weeks in advance.
"It will lead to a happier and healthier workforce which is a victory all Oregonians," said state Sen. Tim Knopp, a Republican who backed the effort. "It is important that businesses can operate under one set of scheduling guidelines [statewide]."
Similar bills have become law in cities like Seattle, San Francisco and New York.
But Oregon is the first state to enact such a statute.
"This is a huge moment for labor rights in America," said Hannah Taube, a spokeswoman for the Oregon Working Families Party, which supported the bill. " ... We hope Oregon is the first of many states to expand scheduling protections for workers."
Investors aren't freaking out about North Korea, but there was a noticeable shift in sentiment nonetheless.
"I'm concerned. I can't predict a shooting war before it happens, but escalating rhetoric of this type is dangerous," David Kotok, chief investment officer at Cumberland Advisors, told CNNMoney.
The Dow fell as many as 88 points on Wednesday, before ending down just 37 points. The S&P 500 suffered its worst open since mid-June, but closed almost flat.
Of course, North Korea wasn't the only catalyst for the caution on Wall Street. Disney (DIS) shares slumped after it announced plans to pull its movies from Netflix. That news also sent Netflix (NFLX, Tech30) stock lower. There were also disappointing earnings reports from Fossil (FOSL) and Priceline (PCLN, Tech30).
But that corporate news doesn't account for the two-month high in the price of gold, which serves as a safe haven during times of worry. The closely-watched VIX volatility gauge remains low, but it's popped 21% since Monday's close. CNNMoney's Fear & Greed index of market sentiment flipped to "neutral" after previously sitting comfortably in "greed" mode.
"The world is getting more dangerous. You don't wait for the tornado. Seeing the cloud is enough to start moving," Kotok said.
Kotok said he's "glad" his asset management firm has been building cash reserves. He's also been buying shares of the VanEck Vectors Gold Miners ETF (GDX) as well as shares of defense contractors -- both of which rallied on Wednesday.
This summer's rally on Wall Street has left the market almost priced for perfection. The Dow is up nearly 12% this year, while the Nasdaq has soared 18%.
The relentless rise has been marked by unusual calm. Consider that the S&P 500 hasn't suffered a downturn of 5% or more in 408 days, the longest streak since May 1996. Two weeks ago, the VIX (VIX) touched an all-time intraday low.
North Korea worries sent Asian markets sinking overnight. Japan's Nikkei slumped 1.3%, while South Korea's KOSPI closed down 1.1%. The iShares MSCI South Korea Capped ETF (EWY) fell 2%. European markets also dipped modestly.
Investors are worried that the war of words could turn into a miscalculation that spirals out of control.
"The concern is about how this could devolve into a fairly messy state of affairs that would cause markets to sell first and ask questions later," said March Luschini, chief market strategist at Janney Capital Markets.
Related: Millions of Americans can't feel the stock market boom
Kotok said Trump's aggressive threats are a stark departure from Teddy Roosevelt's famous approach of "walk softly and carry a big stick."
"Now we have 'yell loudly and we don't know about the stick.' It's something that just adds to the uncertainty," said Kotok.
But Luschini warned investors not to overreact to the rising tensions with North Korea.
It's "premature to de-risk your portfolio" by dumping stocks, Luschini said, because this threat could fade away.
If there's ultimately no impact on the global economy and corporate profits, it shouldn't disrupt the stock market either.
Indeed, this is hardly the first time that North Korea has threatened stability in the region. And previous incidents had just a fleeting impact on global markets.
For decades, investors who were brave enough to "buy on the dips" caused by North Korea concerns ended up making money, according to Erin Browne, head of asset allocation at UBS Asset Management.
But the flipside to that, Browne said, is that a "general sense of complacency" has crept into global markets about the North Korea risk.
The members had paid between $35,000 to $210,000 for initiation fees to join the club but had begun the process of giving up their membership.
"As the owner of the club, I do not want them to utilize the club nor do I want their dues," Trump wrote to the club's members in December 2013, after buying the club, according to the suit. "In other words, we are committed to seeing Trump National Golf Club - Jupiter on the list of the best clubs in the world and if you choose to remain on the resignation list, you're out."
In their 2013 class action suit, the members said barring them from the course entitled them to an immediate refund of the fees. They claimed, under Ritz-Carlton rules, that members who had resigned were still able to access the club while waiting for other members to take their slots as long as they continued to pay dues.
Related: Trump business sues over tax assessment for Florida golf course ... again
In February, a federal judge agreed with the former members and ordered The Trump Organization to reimburse the membership fees, with interest. U.S. District Judge Kenneth Marra said in his ruling that because the club "revoked or canceled their memberships" they were entitled to refunds within 30 days.
On Monday, The Trump Organization filed arguments appealing that decision.
The appeal argues, that under the Ritz Carlton contract, members had to keep paying dues while they awaited refunds of their membership deposits but that the deposits would have been refunded once five new members joined.
It also says there was nothing in its agreement with members to suggest they'd continue to have full access to the club while waiting to leave.
Many country clubs use a "refundable" membership model where those who want to leave must continue to pay dues until new members join and take over payments.
Members who are waiting to leave a club are put on a "resigned" list until their membership is transferred.
Neither the Trump Organization nor the Ritz-Carlton immediately responded to requests for comment.
Related: The reason there are such long odds against winning Powerball
But the odds of winning both are absolutely staggering: A bit worse than 1 in 75.6 quadrillion, or 1 in 75,648,252,765,957,300 to be precise. On a percentage basis, you have only a 0.000000000000000013% chance of holding both winning tickets.
To put that in perspective, those odds are about 6,000 times worse than the odds experts have calculated of being killed by a meteorite strike -- at the same time you're being attacked by a shark.
Of course, it's pretty long odds to win just one of this week's drawings -- either Saturday night's $356 million Powerball game, or Friday's $382 Mega Millions drawing.
Related: How Powerball finds winning tickets
But that doesn't stop people from trying. Americans spent more than $80 billion on lottery tickets last year. That's more than they spend on movies, video games, music, sports tickets and books -- combined.
The odds of winning Powerball are 1 in 292 million. The Mega Million odds are slightly better -- only 1 in 259 million.
"If you buy both tickets, you've doubled your odds of winning," said Ben Auerbach, lead data strategist for Allstate, but they're still pretty close to zero.
Auerbach, who said he never buys lottery tickets himself, calculated the very long odds of a double win not for work but because "it's fun to do this rather than run numbers about premiums and insurance."
Maduro stripped his political opponents of power on July 30, when his party held a vote to create a new legislature, packed only with Maduro's supporters, that can rewrite the constitution. The new legislature, the Constituent Assembly, replaced the opposition-held National Assembly.
Related: U.S. slaps sanctions on Venezuela President Nicolas Maduro
The United States, along with Canada and several Latin American nations, labeled the vote fraudulent and a sign of a dictatorship. On Tuesday, several foreign ministers, including Brazil, Argentina, Mexico and Canada, convened in Lima, Peru, and announced they wouldn't recognize the Constituent Assembly.
Although the Trump administration is stepping up sanctions, it's not using its most powerful weapon -- a ban on Venezuelan oil. Maduro's regime relies solely on oil to power Venezuela's economy. Oil makes up over 95% of Venezuela's total exports.
Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said on July 31 that "all options are on the table" regarding broader sanctions against Venezuela.
Related: Venezuela inches closer to default
A broad ban on oil, the country's only source of cash, risks worsening Venezuela's already-severe shortages of food and medicine, which have crippled the nation's roughly 30 million people.
Maduro doesn't seem to be taking sanctions too seriously. When 13 of his surrogates were hit with sanctions two weeks ago, Maduro awarded them with the national sword, one of the highest honors. And U.S. sanctions against Maduro haven't stopped his agenda of consolidating power.
It's down from 62 out of every million passengers in the year-ago period. More than 177 million passengers flew on the 12 largest airlines during the most recent three months.
Related: Overbooked airlines are here to stay
Airlines have long sold more seats on flights than are actually available, in order to account for passengers who don't show up for flights. Swapping out one aircraft for a smaller one due to maintenance issues or weather can lead to bumping as well.
But in the wake of the April incident, United (UAL) announced changes in its procedure, including offering more money to passengers on overbooked flights to encourage volunteers to give up their seats. Delta Air Lines (DAL) also raised the amount of money its employees could offer. Meanwhile, Southwest Airlines (LUV) said that it will no longer overbook flights in an across the board policy change.
Related: Airline passengers are mad as hell
Southwest has the biggest decline, bumping about 1,500 fewer passengers in the second quarter than it did a year ago.
The next biggest drop was at JetBlue (JBLU), which has long had a policy against overbooking but sometimes has to bump passengers due to a switch to a smaller aircraft. The airline said in April it it changed its policy as to how it swaps planes, and that change apparently worked, at least as far as bumping is concerned. Only 42 passengers were involuntarily denied a flight in the quarter, compared to nearly 800 a year ago.
United CEO Oscar Munoz told investors last month that bumping overall at his airline is down 85% in recent months.
Data from flights on American (AAL), United and Delta are included in DOT's industrywide stats. But it's impossible to break out the specific bumping data at the nation's three largest airlines, because they also operate feeder flights which regional carriers that aren't included in those numbers.
"Probably one of the major reasons I'm here today -- trade," Trump said March 31. On January 23 he noted "I ran a campaign somewhat based on NAFTA."
Related: Trump's NAFTA could be a big win for Amazon, e-commerce
But after all the attention on NAFTA during Trump's campaign, all the tough talk of tariffs and the verbal warnings from Mexico and Canada, negotiations are set to begin on August 16 with little fanfare from the president.
That may reflect a reality that Trump's rhetoric once challenged: Trade can be boring.
"Trade negotiations are hard and complex and slow," says Edward Alden, a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations. "I think we're looking at a much longer negotiation than people think."
Trump hasn't tweeted specifically about NAFTA since April 27, though he has addressed other trade issues on Twitter, mostly in relation to China.
Trump himself won't be renegotiating NAFTA and he'll be on his working vacation for the first round of talks. The U.S. Trade Representative's office will be at the negotiating table for the discussions.
The lack of Trump talk on the pact's renegotiation is telling. He talked about it weekly, if not daily, at various times on his way to the White House. Rust Belt workers who helped seal his election victory frequently say they voted for Trump to get a new NAFTA that would be better for Americans workers.
Related: Trump's NAFTA goals
Last month, the Trump administration laid out its objectives for a renegotiated NAFTA, with the top priority being a reduced trade deficit with Mexico.
Trump's team also wants to end the use of a panel of judges that presides over NAFTA trade disputes in the region. That could allow Trump to apply tariffs more easily.
The U.S. trade team will be led by John Melle, a career trade official at USTR who was not nominated by Trump.
In fact, Melle was among the staff at the USTR that helped take the original NAFTA agreement, the one Trump hates, across the finish line in 1993, according to an administration official. NAFTA officially became law in 1994.
Related: Renegotiating NAFTA -- in 15 easy steps
Of course, many Americans are deeply invested in NAFTA. The USTR received hundreds of submissions during its public hearing on the issue. Several submissions focused on the need to update the agreement with e-commerce policies, which were left out of the original agreement.
Business associations and labor unions have also expressed great interest in the talks. Retailers and farmers want to maintain free trade, while manufacturers are mixed -- some want to make manufacturing in Mexico more expensive while others, such as car companies, insist that supply chains need to be kept in tact.
Still, experts acknowledge that with NAFTA talks set to start, the level of interest isn't what it once was.
"I don't think very many people are paying attention to this right now," says Alan Deardorff, a trade expert at the University of Michigan. "There's nothing exciting coming up."
The soups will retail for $4.99, the sides $4.49.
"I love healthy foods and eating from my garden," Winfrey said in a statement. She said she wanted to make "nutritious comfort foods more accessible to everyone."
Related: Oprah loses 40 pounds, gains big $ with Weight Watchers
Winfrey has already won big in the fitness world. She took a $43 million stake in Weight Watchers (WTW) two years ago, then appeared in ads marveling about eating bread every day while losing weight on the program. Membership soared, and Winfrey's stake grew to $294 million.
Kraft Heinz and Winfrey say the supermarket products come with "unexpected nutritious twists." A package of mashed potatoes includes mashed cauliflower in place of some of the potato. A broccoli cheddar soup recipe replaces some cheese with butternut squash.
Ten percent of the profits from the Winfrey and Kraft Heinz venture, Mealtime Stories, will be split between the charities Rise Against Hunger and Feeding America.
Kraft Heinz also says it plans to make annual donations to both nonprofits until the partnership with Winfrey becomes profitable.
The defense sector has been a big market winner during the past few months. The iShares U.S. Aerospace & Defense ETF (ITA) is up 30% since the election.
Many investors felt that defense stocks were great buys even before Trump's win.
Related: Global markets wobble after Trump issues warning to North Korea
That's because his challenger Hillary Clinton was also viewed as being "hawkish" on defense -- particularly when compared with President Obama -- and would have advocated for more defense spending.
But this new round of saber rattling from both North Korea and President Trump ups the ante.
Trump touted the modernization of America's own nuclear weapons in two tweets Wednesday morning but added that he hoped the U.S. would never need to use them.
My first order as President was to renovate and modernize our nuclear arsenal. It is now far stronger and more powerful than ever before....
...Hopefully we will never have to use this power, but there will never be a time that we are not the most powerful nation in the world!
Kevin Miller, CEO and portfolio manager of the E-Valuator Funds, said his firm has invested more heavily in mutual funds that have increased their investment in defense stocks lately. But, he said the decision wasn't tied to North Korea as much as the possibility of other global conflicts.
"We live in a troubled world. Don't doubt that Iran is watching how things play out with North Korea," Miller said. "There is always going to be some hot spot around the globe."
"The price of butter, while certainly volatile, has never reached such a level before," the group said in a statement. "Butter shortages appear to be a real threat by the end of the year."

There are multiple factors behind the skyrocketing prices: Consumption of butter is booming thanks to higher demand from countries including China, and some customers are returning to the dairy product after doubts were raised over its links to heart disease. Meanwhile, production has dipped in Europe.
Everyone's eating
Global butter consumption is rebounding after years of declines, when consumers ditched butter for margarine and other substitutes.
Raphael Moreau, food analyst at Euromonitor, said that consumers are increasingly opting for ingredients seen as natural and less processed, including butter.
The average European ate 8.4 pounds of butter in 2015, the most recent year available, compared to 7.9 pounds in 2010. The average American consumed 5.6 pounds of butter in 2015, up from 4.9 pounds in 2010, according to the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA).
At the same time, Chinese demand for foreign milk products is booming. The USDA predicts that Chinese milk imports are expected to jump by 38% this year, with almost all of it coming from the EU and New Zealand.
USDA predicts that global butter consumption will grow an additional 3% this year.
Health factors
Recent scientific studies have suggested that butter, which had been linked to heart disease and increased risk of death, might not be as unhealthy as previously thought.
One such study, published in 2016, indicated that butter actually has more of a neutral association with mortality.
"Health concerns are increasingly moving away from fats towards sugars," said Moreau.
Related: Qatar airlifts in cows after Arab embargo cuts milk supplies
Slow churn
The butter price collapse follows years of tumult in the continent's dairy industry.
In 2014, Russia slapped an embargo on European food products in retaliation for sanctions imposed over its annexation of Ukraine. Russia had accounted for 24% of EU butter exports.
The result was dramatically lower prices. In many EU countries, milk was cheaper than bottled water.
The EU would go on to intervene in the market, but many dairy farmers went out of business. Over 1,000 stopped production in the U.K. alone, according to Moreau.
The looming shortage
The next worry is a shortage of butter in Europe.
Butter production slumped 5% in the year to May 2017. Meanwhile, butter stockpiles have plunged 98% in a year, according to the European Commission's Milk Observatory.
"While supplies remain tight and demand has increased, there has been a shortage of butter in the EU, causing prices to soar as buyers try to lock into contracts to obtain stocks," said Michael Liberty, dairy market analyst at Mintec.
Peder Tuborgh, CEO of U.K. dairy giant Arla, warned the BBC last month that there might not be enough milk and cream to go around at Christmas.
The system chronologically threads together all your phone, email, SMS or Facebook Messenger conversations with JetBlue. Eventually the system will incorporate a new proprietary chat program and Twitter, as well.
Related: JetBlue considers new JFK terminal
Customers won't need to change how they interact with the airline, but JetBlue wants to help its customers more quickly. Littleford said that by giving customer service agents more information faster, each interaction can be more "personalized and empathetic."
JetBlue found that 71% of customers use a variety of channels to communicate with the airline, from Twitter to email -- and each method has its own team within the airline using different systems.
"All of the existing customer service platforms, they were never designed in the era of the iPhone and messaging and the way we communicate today," Joseph Ansanelli, CEO and co-founder of Gladly, said in an Interview Friday.
Related: JetBlue will test facial recognition for boarding
During a demo for CNNMoney, the Gladly interface displayed a unique record for each flier in the system. The system could offer stock responses from a database of frequent questions, but also be personalized with custom messages that humanize the interaction.
A mock customer asked in an email about upgrades for her upcoming honeymoon flight, in a demo example used by Ansanelli and Littleford. The message from JetBlue's email team instructed her to call the airline about seats with more legroom. Once she did, an agent over the phone immediately knew why the customer was calling.
JetBlue will roll out the technology to about 200 staff members by the end of the year. By the end of 2018 all 3,000 JetBlue customer service agents, each of whom work from home, will have the tech. JetBlue ultimately hopes to expand Gladly to flight attendants and gate agents.
Related: JetBlue just made WiFi free on all domestic flights
JetBlue Technology Ventures, the airline's venture capital arm, is also investing in Gladly, which bills itself as a customer service platform for the 21st century.
The airline won't say precisely how much they're putting into the Bay Area startup, but it is part of the company's latest $36 million funding round. Ansanelli said there's nothing in the terms of JetBlue's investment that stops Gladly from working with other airlines.
Other carriers are also buying equity stakes in new customer service technology, giving them first dibs and allowing them to deeply integrate customer service into their operations.
Delta Air Lines (DAL) in 2016 bought a 5% stake in Clear, a company that uses biometric data for clearing security at airports. Delta has expanded the system to use your fingerprints to access its lounges, board its flights and eventually check a bag.
Social Finance, the nonprofit behind the initiative, described it as the world's first "social impact bond."
The U.K. Ministry of Justice was required to repay investors only if the rehabilitation project reduced the share of ex-convicts committing another crime by at least 7.5%, compared to a control group.
If the threshold was not met the backers would lose their investment.
Caught in the crime loop
The rehabilitation was provided by a group called the One Service.
They faced a real challenge: In 2010, when the scheme began, the recidivism rate among U.K. prisoners who had served less than 12 months in jail was 60%, according to Social Finance.
Over five years, the One Service offered support to 2,000 male prisoners for a year following their release from Peterborough prison to help them settle back into the community and turn their lives around.
Many of the men were repeat offenders, and some suffered from mental health problems or substance abuse. The group offered them support to address those issues, as well as help finding a job and a place to live.

An independent evaluation found the Peterborough Social Impact Bond succeeded in reducing new convictions by an average of 9%.
David Hutchison, the chief executive of Social Finance, said the program was vital because there had been no statutory support for prisoners who served sentences of less than a year.
"There was a clear measurable failure in the system," said Hutchison. "We were looking to create an investment solution to that failure."
'Unambiguously positive'
The bond's supporters describe it as a win-win: prisoners received the support they need, taxpayers avoided paying for additional jail time and investors made a return.
Hutchison described the program as "unambiguously positive for everyone concerned." Investors were attracted to the program because unlike traditional grants, they were able to earn a return.
"They're drawn to the fact that they could re-use the funds," he said. "Over a period of 15 or 20 years they might recycle a fund three or four times."
A $1.3 billion market?
The Peterborough Social Impact Bond was terminated two years early, in 2015, when the government introduced statutory supervision for offenders serving shorter sentences.
A Ministry of Justice spokesperson said that the Peterborough pilot had "played a valuable role in informing our current approach to probation."
Social Finance now has 89 social impact bonds in 18 countries, with investments totaling more than $322 million.
Other organizations have issued their own social impact bonds, or similar "payment by results" social investments. In the U.S., the Nonprofit Finance Fund has helped build the field by providing training to interested parties.
But the bonds have proved particularly popular in the U.K.
Rob Wilson, the former minister for civil society, wrote in 2016 that the U.K. had more social impact bonds than the rest of the world put together. He said investments in the bonds could hit £1 billion ($1.3 billion) by 2020.
-- An earlier version of this story incorrectly stated that the Nonprofit Finance Fund had issued its own bonds.
U.S. stock futures were pointing to a weaker open on Wednesday.
Meanwhile, investors moved money into assets seen as safe havens. Gold prices increased 1% and the Swiss franc gained against all major currencies.
The moves come after President Trump ratcheted up the war of words with Kim Jong Un's regime, saying it will "face fire and fury like the world has never seen" if it keeps threatening the United States.
Pyongyang responded with threats to launch preemptive military strikes against the U.S., including targeting the Pacific island territory of Guam.
2. China aluminum duty: The Trump administration has taken the first steps to hit China with a duty on its aluminum foil exports.
The U.S. Commerce Department announced a preliminary decision Tuesday evening to tax aluminum foil from China at a rate of between 16.5% and 81%, based on the subsidies it says it receives from the Chinese government.
3. Payments takeover deal: British payment processing firm Worldpay (WPYGY) has agreed a £8 billion ($10.4 billion) takeover by the U.S. cards provider Vantiv (VNTV).
The two companies were negotiating for weeks and a deadline to reach the deal had to be extended twice.
The combined company, worth £22.2 billion ($28.8 billion), will be called Worldpay.
Shares in Worldpay gained 1% in London trading.
4. Murdoch's dream deal: A planned $15 billion takeover of British pay-TV provider Sky (SKYAY) by Rupert Murdoch's 21st Century Fox (FOX) could be delayed further.
The U.K. government has asked the country's media regulator to take another look at the implications of the deal.
21st Century Fox will report earnings after the market close in the U.S.
5. Disney breaks up with Netflix: Disney (DIS) said Tuesday that it will end its partnership with Netflix in 2019.
Disney also announced it will launch its own streaming services, and plans to acquire a majority stake in BAMTech, a major streaming and marketing service.
Shares in Netflix (NFLX, Tech30) were down 4% in premarket trading.
Before the Bell newsletter: Key market news. In your inbox. Subscribe now!
6. Stock market movers -- TripAdvisor; Priceline; Michael Kors: TripAdvisor (TRIP) dropped 8% in extended trading after earnings missed analyst expectations.
Priceline (PCLN, Tech30) shed 7% premarket after issuing disappointing guidance for the current quarter.
Shares in fashion retailer Michael Kors (KORS) were poised to gain after it reported better than expected sales.
7. Earnings and economics: Crocs (CROX), Mylan N.V. (MYL), Office Depot (ODP), Tribune Media (TRCO) and Wendy's (WEN) will release earnings before the open Wednesday, while Jack In The Box (JACK) and Live Nation (LYV) will follow after the close.
The U.S. weekly crude inventories report is set to be released at 10:30 a.m. ET.
Download CNN MoneyStream for up-to-the-minute market data and news
8. Coming this week:
Wednesday -- American crude inventories data; U.S. productivity report; Mylan (MYL), 21st Century Fox (FOX) earnings; Chinese inflation report Thursday -- Snap (SNAP), Blue Apron (APRN), NVIDIA (NVDA, Tech30), Macy's (M), Nordstrom (JWN), News Corp (NWSA), and Kohl's (KSS) report earnings Friday -- U.S. inflation report; J. C. Penney
Germany's DAX and France's CAC 40 dropped 0.7% in early trading, while London's FTSE 100 shed 0.5%.
Meanwhile, investors moved money into assets seen as safe havens. Gold prices increased 0.9% and the Swiss franc gained against all major currencies.
The U.S. dollar strengthened against the euro, but lost ground to the Japanese yen and British pound.
Traders in Asia said the confrontational language was weighing on markets -- although not too heavily.
"Regional sentiment was dented for sure," said Stephen Innes, a senior trader at online broker Oanda. But he added that the moves were "nothing I would panic too quickly about just yet," noting that they may have been exaggerated by the relatively light trading volumes that are typical in August.
Related: New North Korea sanctions are unlikely to make Kim blink
South Korea's benchmark Kospi index fell 1.1%, and the Nikkei in Tokyo sank 1.3%. Most other major Asian stock markets were in the red, although Australia bucked the trend with a 0.4% gain.
Asian markets have generally proved resilient to the heightened tensions between the U.S. and North Korea in recent months. South Korean stocks hit a record high earlier this summer.
"The North Korea issue has been ongoing for a few years, so I think investors seem not to be too bothered by this kind of development," said Pu Yonghao, chief investment officer at asset management firm Fountainhead Partners in Hong Kong.
Pu described Wednesday's declines as "a pullback" by investors using the North Korea tensions as an excuse to lock in recent gains.
"Nobody's freaking out yet," he said.
Magic Johnson Enterprises teamed up with Loop Capital Markets LLC and its CEO Jim Reynolds to become equity investors in LaGuardia Gateway Partners. They will design, build and maintain the airport as part of a 35-year lease with the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey.
Johnson has repeatedly expressed interest in investing in an infrastructure project, and created the JLC Infrastructure Fund with Reynolds.
In October 2016, he was part of a group that bid on the renovation of one of the terminals at Denver International Airport.
At a Bloomberg forum in April, Johnson said he was excited about infrastructure projects because "we will be rebuilding America."
Related: LeBron James to donate $2.5 million to Smithsonian Muhammad Ali exhibit
The news of his involvement in the renovation of LaGuardia came during a press conference on Tuesday -- the same day that developers broke ground on construction of the eastern part of the airport.
National Urban League CEO and President Marc Morial said it was the first time in New York state history that a governor had required that a minority or women-owned business enterprise be an equity partner in such a large project.
Related: Magic Johnson first to reserve Los Angeles Rams season tickets
In total, the renovation of LaGuardia will cost $8 billion. More than half of that money will come from the private sector.
It's the largest public-private partnership in the history of U.S. aviation, according to a release from Governor Andrew Cuomo. It will be the first new U.S. airport since Denver International opened in 1995.
Delta (DAL) invested $3.4 billion in LaGuardia -- its largest stake ever -- and will get exclusive use of the eastern part of the airport. It will begin using the terminal in 2021.
Johnson retired from basketball in 1996 and turned his eye to business. He currently serves as the president of basketball operations for the Los Angeles Lakers, the team that made him a household name.
Lower-income Americans, many of whom by definition don't have extra money to invest, can't feel that red-hot stock market. Stock ownership is just 21% among people with household income of less than $30,000 a year, according to Gallup.
The rally is very real for wealthier Americans: 89% of those who make at least $100,000 own stocks. And, incredibly, the richest 20% of Americans owned 92% of all stocks in 2013, according to research by NYU economist Edward Wolff.
One reason so few Americans are invested is that a third of workers don't have access to a 401(k) or other retirement plan.
"If you're a coal miner in West Virginia without a 401(k) or stock market exposure, you don't care about all-time highs," said Andres Garcia-Amaya, global market strategist at independent wealth management firm Zoe Financial.
"It's easy for us sitting in New York to look at the market and say everyone is doing well. The reality is that a huge portion of the population is not participating in this," he said.
You wouldn't know it from Trump's tweets. He regularly brags about stocks, which have soared since his election last fall.

Related: These charts show how the Trump economy is really doing
Of course, stocks aren't climbing just because of Trump. The economy is in good shape, which has lifted corporate profits. Unemployment is at a 16-year low, while job openings are the highest in 15 years. A stronger labor market helps even Americans who aren't invested.
And to be fair, President Obama and other presidents trumpeted the stock market, too. Obama mentioned the market in several State of the Union addresses, although he did it in the context of longer-term gains, not day-to-day records.
Younger people are less likely to benefit from the market's rise. Just 31% of people ages 18 to 29 owned stocks on average between 2009 and 2017, according to Gallup. That's down from 42% during the eight years before.
By comparison, nearly two-thirds of Americans between 30 and 64 years old own stocks.

Related: Trump is playing with fire by obsessing over stocks
It makes sense that younger Americans are less likely to have money in the market because they have accumulated less wealth early in their careers.
Millennials are also among the groups who tend to have less access to 401(k) or similar retirement plans, according to research from Pew Charitable Trusts.
Overall, more than a third of workers don't have access to either a defined benefit or defined contribution plan that is sponsored by their employers, the research found.
Young Americans' declining participation in the market may also reflect lingering scars from a formative experience of their youth: the 2008 financial crisis, which crushed countless innocent investors.
"Some younger Americans may look at what happened in 2008 and conclude, 'This isn't for me. It's too risky,'" said David Joy, chief market strategist at Ameriprise Financial.
Ironically, that same risk aversion has helped keep the market chugging higher. Persistent skepticism about the bull market has prevented the type of euphoria that in the past has inflated a bubble that ended in tears.
"It's one of the reasons this market has been able to carry one: There have been so many skeptics," said Garcia-Amaya.
Burrell has worked at several high-end New York restaurants, is an author of popular cookbooks and host of culinary shows, Chef Wanted, Worst Cooks in America and Secrets of a Restaurant Chef.
"As a long-time Cheetos fan, I'm thrilled to join forces with a snack brand that is truly an iconic American staple," Burrell said in a press release. "I had so much fun curating this specially crafted, one-of-a-kind menu for the first Cheetos restaurant -- I can't wait to see guests' reactions!"
The all-Cheetos menu will feature dishes that range from $8 to $22, such as Flamin' Hot and White Cheddar Mac n' Cheetos.
Cheetos fans in recent years have infused their innovation into Cheetos-inspired food and shared recipes online. It was their creativity that inspired the pop-up, according to Ryan Matiyow, senior director of marketing of Frito-Lay, the Pepsi (PEP) division that makes Cheetos.
"The Spotted Cheetah is a fun and delicious way for Cheetos to celebrate a variety of favorite flavors in an upscale and playful culinary setting that will wow our guests," Matiyow said.
Fast food restaurants have flirted with Cheetos-inspired menu items in the past. Burger King twice added "Mac n' Cheetos," deep-fried macaroni and cheese sticks covered with Cheetos flavoring, to its menu. Yum! Brands (YUM)' Taco Bell launched Cheetos Quesadillas in the Philippines, and was said to be testing out Cheetos burritos last year.
The Spotted Cheetah marks the first time an entire menu is based on the snack. Reservations for the New York pop up begin Tuesday. A cookbook that features the menu items from the restaurant will be available online.
According to an analysis of the transcripts by FactSet Research, Trump and his administration were mentioned only 44 times by executives of the 374 companies in the S&P 500 that held their second quarter conference calls through August 2.
During the first few weeks of 2017, there were 181 references to the president out of 371 calls by S&P 500 companies.
Companies weren't nearly as chatty about President Barack Obama after he was elected.
During the first few weeks of 2009, Obama and his administration were mentioned 88 times on earnings calls. That dropped to 57 by the second quarter, according to FactSet. Of course, there was a financial crisis going on back then.
Why are companies no longer talking much about Trump?
He proposed reforming the tax code, repealing Obamacare and deregulating Wall Street. But business leaders no longer seem convinced that meaningful economic policy changes are coming from Washington anytime soon.
The executives who did mention Trump during their most recent calls expressed worry that their businesses and the economy might suffer if nothing gets done.
"Investor psyche remains fragile," Morgan Stanley (MS) chief financial officer Jonathan Pruzan said on a call in July.
"The same questions that lingered around timing and achievability of the administration's policy initiatives at the end of the first quarter remain unresolved," Pruzan added.
John Wren, CEO of advertising giant Omnicom (OMC), said during his company's earnings call last month that, because of "gridlock," the Trump administration hasn't been able to accomplish even "the simple things that they said they were going to focus on."
Related: These 6 charts show how the Trump economy is really doing
And Pierre Nanterme, CEO of the consulting firm Accenture (ACN), said that companies, which expected big reforms "reasonably rapidly" that would "unleash more growth," are now just waiting.
Nonetheless, most S&P 500 companies are brushing off concerns about gridlock.
FactSet estimates that earnings growth for the second quarter will exceed 10%. What's more, 72% of the S&P companies that have reported their latest results posted profits that topped Wall Street forecasts.
That's what's driving the record rally in stocks. So even though some companies doubt what Trump can accomplish, they may be content with gridlock. After all, they've lived through this before. It's the proverbial devil they know.
On the downside, employers increasingly say they can't find skilled and available workers to fill their open positions.
A growing debate has emerged among economists: Some say American workers need better skills while others argue that employers need to offer higher wages to attract better talent.
Related: Job training saved her life
Regardless, job openings are abundant in several industries. There were 388,000 manufacturing job openings in June, 225,000 construction postings and even 23,000 unfilled mining jobs. Each of these industries was up compared to the previous month and compared to a year ago.
Schools and hospitals have the most job openings: There were 1.2 million postings in health and education services in June.
President Trump hopes to fill some of those open jobs by investing more in apprenticeship programs, which tend to be located at offices or factories. Administration officials announced in June they would put $200 million toward ApprenticeshipUSA, a grant program, using already-allocated Labor Department funds.
However, Trump's proposed budget seeks to significantly cut funding for job training programs that offer more classroom-based learning.
The budget would reduce funding for job training by $1.1 billion, or 40%. U.S. officials say job training programs have had checkered success. Some programs considered to be thriving are asking the administration to reconsider.
Hanef is a victim in the latest Wells Fargo scandal. He is one of up to 570,000 auto loan borrowers that Wells Fargo has said it may have enrolled and charged for car insurance without their knowledge. Wells Fargo has admitted that as many as 20,000 of those customers may have defaulted on their car loans or had their vehicles repossessed in part due to these unnecessary insurance costs.
Wells Fargo told CNNMoney that it plans to work directly with Hanef to give him a refund.
"We are truly sorry for any inconvenience this caused our customers," a Wells Fargo spokeswoman said in an email to CNNMoney.
Related: Wells Fargo may have forced 570,000 into unneeded auto insurance
Unlike most big banks, Wells Fargo's auto loan contracts allowed the lender to obtain collateral protection insurance on a customer's behalf if they failed to buy liability coverage themselves. Wells Fargo conceded that it bought insurance for some customers -- and charged them for it -- even when they had their own.
Lenders can impose collateral protection insurance on borrowers if their normal coverage lapses. It's designed to protect from a financial loss in the event the borrower gets hit with an insurance claim, such as for an accident, and doesn't have any coverage.
Wells Fargo told CNNMoney that it has discontinued this insurance program after "finding errors" that hurt some customers.
Most big banks don't force auto insurance on borrowers who don't have it. JPMorgan Chase (JPM), Bank of America (BAC), PNC Financial (PNC) and Santander Consumer USA told CNNMoney that they do not follow this practice.
This week, a New York regulator subpoenaed two Wells Fargo divisions, demanding the bank turn over loan agreements and other documents related to the auto insurance charges, a source told CNNMoney.
Related: Wells Fargo hit with subpoenas over auto insurance scandal
Wells Fargo's auto insurance scandal comes nearly a year after the bank said it had created about 2 million potentially unauthorized checking and credit card accounts.
Hanef, a Wells Fargo customer for 23 years, said he took out a Wells Fargo auto loan in June 2014 to purchase a used Honda Civic. To be safe, Hanef said he always paid $300 per month, even though the bill was only $280.
The problem was that starting around March 2016, Wells Fargo (WFC) raised his monthly bill to $374 because it added the collateral protection insurance. Hanef insists he had auto insurance, so there was no need for Wells Fargo to charge him for more.
"My insurance never lapsed," he said, echoing the claims of other customers. Wells Fargo told Hanef that it sent him notices about the insurance charges, but he never saw them.
Hanef said that he didn't notice the insurance charges added to the monthly invoices sent to his home. He admits he stopped looking at the bill closely because for almost two years the amount due never changed.
"It always stayed the same," Hanef said.
He didn't know there was a problem until it was too late. Hanef's Honda Civic was repossessed on December 27, 2016, according to a letter sent by Wells Fargo to Hanef and viewed by CNNMoney. Losing his car meant that Hanef missed work and inconvenienced his patients, many of whom have mental health and substance abuse problems.
Before he got his car back on January 10, 2017, Hanef said he was forced to pay the repo fee and get current on the loan -- or risk losing the car for good.
"They told me the car would be sold on auction if I didn't pay the ransom," Hanef said.
Wells Fargo wrote Hanef a letter on January 31 saying it removed the insurance surcharge after he proved he had insurance. But the bank refused to refund the repo fee because it said he would have been late on his payments in any case.
The worst part? Hanef said his credit score has been "decimated" by the Wells Fargo experience, dropping more than 100 points. Now he's not able to refinance his house.
Related: Wells Fargo ordered to rehire whistleblower
Wells Fargo said last week it's "extremely sorry" for the auto insurance debacle. The bank promised to pay $80 million in refunds and account adjustments. Wells Fargo said it will also work with credit bureaus to correct errors in customers' credit records.
Hanef is considering joining a class action lawsuit launched this week by the law firm Keller Rohrback over the auto insurance scandal. The firm reached a $142 million preliminary class action settlement with Wells Fargo earlier this year over the fake account scandal.
Senator Elizabeth Warren and some of her Democrat colleagues want to grill Wells Fargo CEO Tim Sloan and Chairman Stephen Sanger about the recent scandals. They wrote a letter on Tuesday to Mike Crapo, the Republican chairman of the Senate banking committee, requesting a September hearing. Crapo's committee did not respond to a request for comment from CNNMoney.
The record for consecutive records is 12. It was set in January 1987, months before the Black Monday crash, and tied in February, shortly after President Trump took office.
As impressive as that is, the Dow was only up about 400 points, or 1.8%, during its recent string of records. And the broader S&P 500 has lost ground on four of those record Dow days.
Related: The stock market hasn't been this calm since 1996
In other words, the market isn't exactly going straight up. CNNMoney's Fear & Greed Index is sitting in "greed" mode, which is actually down from "extreme greed" a year ago.
Nonetheless, the Dow has surged about 3,800 points since Trump's victory in November.
In recent months, Wall Street has managed to shrug off turmoil in the Trump administration and the president's failure to get his economic agenda through Congress. Instead, the market has been carried to new heights by strong corporate profits from the likes of Apple (AAPL, Tech30), Boeing (BA) and McDonald's (MCD).

Wall Street is also feeling good about the economy. The unemployment rate dipped in July to a 16-year low of 4.3%, and employers have added more than 1 million jobs since Trump took office. Economic growth doubled to 2.6% during the second quarter.
The Federal Reserve has promised to raise interest rates at just a gradual pace to avoid disrupting the recovery or the markets.
Evidently, many investors believe the market will do just fine even if Trump fails to deliver on his promise of "massive" tax cuts.
Still, it could be healthy for the market to take a breather after all these records. The S&P 500 hasn't suffered a downturn of 5% or more in 406 days, the longest streak since May 1996.
Challenges may loom for the market in the coming weeks. Congress needs to raise the debt ceiling to avoid a disastrous default. The Treasury Department has estimated it can meet its financial commitments for two more months.
It's a trend that could accelerate ahead of Britain's departure from the European Union.
"The parts of the economy most reliant on European workers are under even more pressure as many EU workers return home," said REC chief executive Kevin Green. "Employers are not just struggling to hire the brightest and the best but also people to fill roles such as chefs, drivers and warehouse workers."
British businesses have been pressing the government for reassurances about their ability to hire EU citizens after March 2019. They play a vital role across the economy, from tech firms to banks, the health service, farms and the hospitality industry.
Related: Bank of England slashes its growth forecast (again)
Green said that London was being hit particularly hard. Hiring is still on the upswing in the capital city, but growth is slower than in any other region.
"We can't ignore the importance of our relationship with the EU to employers," said Green. "If we want to keep our jobs market successful and vibrant, we must make it easier, not harder, for employers to access the people they need."
EU citizens living in the U.K. are stuck in a legal limbo, because the British government and the EU have not yet reached an agreement on their post-Brexit rights.
Many are not waiting for negotiations to conclude. The number of EU citizens leaving the U.K. jumped 36% in 2016, according to official government data.
Related: Brexit jobs tracker
Still, the labor market dynamics could be good news for some workers.
REC said the staff shortage was forcing some employers to offer higher starting salaries and wages.
They want the bank to admit guilt and make a commitment to provide more detailed information about climate change risks in future.
"The proceeding is the first legal action by shareholders against a bank anywhere in the world that will test how public companies should disclose information about climate change risks in their annual reports," Environmental Justice Australia, the Abrahams' law firm, said in a statement.
Commonwealth Bank is one of Australia's "Big Four" banks, and the country's largest by market capitalization.
In a statement emailed to CNNMoney, the bank rejected the claim that it had not complied with reporting requirements.
"Commonwealth Bank understands that climate change is a topic of public and shareholder interest and we are committed to playing our part in limiting climate change," the statement said.
The 2016 report outlines the bank's commitment to tackling climate change and helping to limit global warming. It also promises to "actively support businesses and technologies that... mitigate the effects of climate change."
Related: Australia's economic winning streak is epic, but it's not a record
The lawsuit singled out a particular project -- a controversial $12 billion coal mine by a large Indian conglomerate. The Adani Carmichael coal mine in Australia's Queensland region has faced widespread protests by environmental activists and politicians over climate change risks and the potential use of taxpayer money.
The investors want the Commonwealth Bank to say whether it plans to fund the Adani project, because to do so "continues to pose, material or major risks (including reputational risks) to its business."
Related: Indian billionaire to open huge new coal mine in Australia
Calls for companies to disclose business risks from climate change have grown louder in recent years. New York billionaire Michael Bloomberg has been leading a global task force of top executives to address the issue.
"Climate change is affecting companies through the direct impact of steadily rising global temperatures and the policies that governments around the world adopt in response," Graeme Pitkethly, chief financial officer at Unilever (UL) and the vice chair of the task force, wrote in an opinion piece for CNNMoney earlier this year.
"Public companies are already obliged to disclose material risk," Pitkethly added. "Climate change is exactly that."
-- Jethro Mullen contributed to this report
2. Disney earnings: Disney (DIS) will report second quarter earnings on Tuesday. Wall Street will be especially interested in the performance of ESPN.
The sports network has been dragging Disney down, offsetting the company's many wins in the box office. Declining subscriber numbers and lower ad revenue led to some layoffs in 2016.
Disney shares are flat this year despite a major rally in the broader market.
3. China trade slowdown: Chinese export growth slowed more than expected in July, with lower shipments to China's biggest trading partners -- the U.S. and EU, as well as many emerging markets.
"Looking ahead, we think further downside to export growth should be relatively limited given the positive outlook for China's main trading partners," said analysts at Capital Economics.
4. Global market overview: U.S. stock futures were flat early on Tuesday.
The Dow Jones industrial average added 0.1% on Monday to close at a record high for the ninth consecutive trading session. The S&P 500 gained 0.2% and the Nasdaq increased 0.5%.
European markets were mixed in early trading on Tuesday, while Asian markets ended the session mixed.
Before the Bell newsletter: Key market news. In your inbox. Subscribe now!
5. Stock market movers -- Marriott: Shares in Marriott International (MAR) were down 2% in extended trading after the company announced a new joint venture with Alibaba (BABA, Tech30) on Tuesday.
The service will allow Chinese travelers to book rooms at Marriott hotels on Fliggy, Alibaba's travel service platform.
6. Earnings and economics: CVS Health (CVS), Michael Kors (KORS), Norwegian Cruise Line (NCLH), Ralph Lauren (RL), SeaWorld Entertainment (SEAS) and Tesco (TESO) are set to release earnings before the open.
Fossil (FOSL), GoDaddy (GDDY), Hertz Global (HTZ), Priceline (PCLN, Tech30), Red Robin Gourmet (RRGB), Rosetta Stone (RST), TripAdvisor (TRIP) and Zillow (ZG) will follow after the close.
German and French trade data came in below analysts expectations on Tuesday.
Download CNN MoneyStream for up-to-the-minute market data and news
7. Coming this week:
Tuesday -- Disney (DIS), CVS (CVS), Michael Kors (KORS), Ralph Lauren (RL) report earnings; Chinese and German foreign trade data Wednesday -- American crude inventories data; U.S. productivity report; Mylan (MYL), 21st Century Fox (FOX) earnings; Chinese inflation report Thursday -- Snap (SNAP), Blue Apron (APRN), NVIDIA (NVDA, Tech30), Macy's (M), Nordstrom (JWN), News Corp (NWSA), and Kohl's (KSS) report earnings Friday -- U.S. inflation report; J. C. Penney
The company and its new business partners in China -- investment firms Citic and Carlyle Group -- are hoping the new outlets will help drive double-digit sales growth for the business every year for the next five years. They're targeting smaller Chinese cities in particular.
Related: McDonald's comeback kicks into high gear
The new plans come after McDonald's sold off most of the China business to Citic and Carlyle, saying they would bring a better understanding of the local market. Under the deal announced earlier this year, McDonald's still holds a 20% stake in the business.
The move was part of Easterbrook's ongoing efforts to overhaul the global burger chain. The company's latest financial results pleased investors, with a rise in U.S. sales providing more evidence that Americans are returning to the golden arches.
McDonald's isn't the only big U.S. company whose brand is moving deeper into China.
Starbucks (SBUX) announced plans last year to open more than one new store a day in China for the next five years. It aims to have 5,000 stores across China by 2021.
The post was sponsored by Kingsford charcoal and Wilfork attached a cheeky video to go along with the announcement.
The video highlighted Wilfork's accomplishments on the field before showing him hanging up his cleats and reaching for a hanging pair of grilling tongs.
"No more cleats," says Wilfork, who is wearing overalls. "I'm moving on to smoked meats, fellas. Peace out. I'm outta here. Later!"
Well y'all -- it's been a great run, but the time has come. @Kingsford #Sponsored pic.twitter.com/DXfDzholBi
Wilfork ends the ad by saying he'll be back "but not on that field."
Related: Tom Brady is the new face of Aston Martin
It's not the first commercial he's done for the charcoal company. In June, he made a Father's Day ad in honor of fathers who barbecue.
Wilfork was selected by the New England Patriots in the first round of the 2004 NFL Draft and most recently played for the Houston Texans.
Wall Street has focused more on strong corporate earnings and less on the turmoil in Washington during Trump's first 200 days in office. And that could continue.
"Investors are not worried about risks. The market is ignoring noise," said JJ Kinahan, chief market strategist with TD Ameritrade.
Related: These charts show how the Trump economy is really doing
Kinahan notes that it's hard to remember a period where so many people think stocks are due for a big pullback. Sometimes when people all expect the market to zig, it zags instead.
"It's the rally that nobody respects. People are just thinking about how bad things could get. There are lot of non-believers," Kinahan noted.
The rally has been fueled by mega-sized tech stocks Apple (AAPL, Tech30), Amazon (AMZN, Tech30), Facebook (FB, Tech30), Microsoft (MSFT, Tech30) and Google owner Alphabet (GOOGL, Tech30), plus other hot stocks like Netflix (NFLX, Tech30) and Tesla (TSLA).
It could be a bad sign for the broader economy if more companies don't start to participate in the rally. Experts usually prefer when a larger mix of companies are doing well. The rally could also be at risk if any of those market darlings start to founder.
Related: The market hasn't been this calm since 1996
"The market is not as healthy as it looks. A rising tide is only lifting the biggest boats," said David Lafferty, chief market strategist for Natixis Global Asset Management.
Lafferty is particularly concerned that the market may be ignoring the possibility of more debt ceiling drama later this year.
Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin has been trying to convince Congress that it must soon raise the debt ceiling so the U.S. can continue to pay its bills on time.
But none of that matters to investors right now. Healthy profits from big businesses have investors feeling giddy. CNNMoney's Fear & Greed Index, which looks at seven measures of market sentiment, is showing signs of greed.
That could mean that the market may make a run at this year's earlier record of records. Back in February, the Dow closed at a new high 12 days in a row.
Here's a more detailed look at the economy, 200 days into the Trump presidency.
1. Jobs
It's hard to find fault with the latest jobs numbers. The unemployment rate is 4.3%, a 16-year low. The economy has added more than 1 million jobs since Trump took office.
On the other hand, wage growth has yet to really pick up. Employers still don't feel pressure to offer big salaries to attract the workers they need. Average hourly earnings have increased only 2.5% over the past 12 months. The Federal Reserve would rather see 3% to 3.5%.
Still, because inflation is low, those wage gains are helping many Americans.
2. Housing prices
They're red hot.
The average price for an existing home in June was a record $263,800, or 6.5% higher than a year ago. June was the 64th consecutive month of gains compared with a year earlier.
And borrowing money to buy a house remains relatively affordable, despite recent interest rate hikes by the Federal Reserve. The average rate for a 30-year mortgage is just 3.93%, according to Freddie Mac, down from 4.02% three months ago.
3. Lending
Consumers aren't borrowing just to buy homes. They're taking on debt for cars and using credit cards for lots of other things.
Americans had $3.843 trillion in loans outstanding in May, up from $3.766 trillion at the end of last year, according to the Fed.
And businesses are borrowing more, reversing a trend from earlier this year. That could be a good sign for Trump and the economy. Consumers can't prop up the economy alone: Companies need to pull their weight and invest.
4. Consumer spending
Big stores including Macy's (M), Kohl's (KSS) and J.C. Penney (JCP) report earnings this week, and the results could be lousy.
The dominance of Amazon (AMZN, Tech30) is one reason. But Americans may also be spending less on clothes, toys and other smaller purchases -- even though they're taking out more loans.
Retail sales fell 0.2% in June. Economists were expecting a slight increase. And overall consumer spending was up just 0.1% in June.
Spending has increased 2.8% over the past 12 months, a bit below the 3% pace many experts feel is necessary to keep the economy on track.
5. Trade
Trump wants more consumers -- in the United States and around the globe -- to buy American. And it looks like that's starting to happen.
The trade deficit fell slightly in June from three months ago, to $43.6 billion. That's the lowest since just before the election.
America's suddenly vibrant oil industry is a big reason the balance is shifting. Thanks to technologies like fracking, the United States exported more crude in June and imported less.
Exports to Canada and Mexico rose in June, too, a possible sign that Trump's tough talk is working with America's two big North American trading partners.
China is still a sore spot. The U.S. trade deficit with China is up more than 6% this year.
6. Stocks
An undeniable win for the president. Fears of a market collapse under Trump have proved to be misguided.
The Dow keeps hitting records and is up 12% this year.
And the blue chips are lagging. The Nasdaq has surged nearly 20% thanks to big gains in Amazon, Apple (AAPL, Tech30), Google owner Alphabet (GOOGL, Tech30) and Facebook (FB, Tech30).
For now, Wall Street is willing to ignore the turmoil in the Trump administration. Investors are hoping for eventual changes to the tax code and deregulation of the financial industry.
Strong earnings don't hurt, either. Profits for the companies in the S&P 500 are up more than 10% from a year ago.
Carriers have until August 16 to revise their premium requests and until September 27 to sign contracts for 2018. They have grown increasingly jittery over participating in Obamacare amid the uncertainty emanating from Washington D.C., particularly as President Trump's threatens to stop paying a key set of subsidies.
The Affordable Care Act market remains too volatile for Anthem's liking, the company said. In particular, it is concerned about whether it will continue to receive the Obamacare subsidies that reduce out-of-pocket costs for lower-income consumers. Another factor is the return of a tax on health insurers that had been temporarily suspended.
Related: 3 key dates in the battle over Obamacare's subsidies
"Today, planning and pricing for ACA-compliant health plans has become increasingly difficult due to a shrinking and deteriorating individual market, as well as continual changes and uncertainty in federal operations, rules and guidance, including cost sharing reduction subsidies and the restoration of taxes on fully insured coverage," the company said in a statement.
No counties will be left without at least one other insurer. Anthem specifically notes that it is remaining in 85 mostly rural counties in Georgia where it is expected to be the sole carrier in 2018.
Anthem, which provides Obamacare polices in 14 states this year, already announced it is withdrawing from Ohio, Indiana and Wisconsin, as well as much of California.
Nearly 10,000 residents in 17 counties are at risk for having no Obamacare options next year, according to the Kaiser Family Foundation -- many of them because of Anthem's exit.
Anthem's move follows Aetna's decision not to enter the Nevada market. Aetna (AET) had filed to participate in the Silver State, but opted not to go through with it. The carrier announced earlier this year it was pulling out of its four remaining states.
Related: Ending 'bailouts' for insurers could cost millions their health insurance
In one bright spot for Obamacare, Blue Cross and Blue Shield of North Carolina announced it is reducing its requested 2018 premium increase to 14.1% because its policyholders filed lower-than-expected medical claims in June and July. The company had initially asked for a 22.9% rate hike, much of which is due to the uncertainty surrounding the cost-sharing subsidies.
"The individual market in North Carolina has become less volatile," the company said in a blog post last week.
"We're not begrudging anyone's success. But the success that many wealthy people have achieved has been because of government policies that favored them," de Blasio, a Democrat, said at a press conference in Brooklyn. "People should pay their fair share."
This has become known as the Summer of Hell in New York because of widespread repairs, delays and overcrowding on Amtrak, commuter rails and the New York subway, which is 113 years old and handles 6 million riders each weekday.
A city survey in June found that almost half of subway riders said service was slightly or far worse than last year. A subway derailment in June injured 39 people and brought the system to a halt.
Related: New York's 'Summer of Hell' spreads to subways
New York City would not be the first to use a so-called millionaires tax. A handful of states, including California, adopted them after the Great Recession to close budget holes, according to the Tax Foundation, a policy research group.
About $500 million per year from de Blasio's proposed tax increase would go toward signal improvements, new cars and track work. About $250 million would pay for half-priced transit cards for people who can't afford the full cost, about $121 per month.
A state authority controls the subway, and the tax increase would have to pass the state legislature, where Republicans control the Senate. The majority leader's office did not respond to a request for comment from CNNMoney, but a spokesman for Senate Republicans batted down the idea to The New York Times.
Related: New York commuters' 'summer of hell'
The chairman of the state authority, Joseph Lhota, has called for the city and state to split the bill for an $800 million rescue package. He said in a statement Monday that the subways need money "right now, not years from now."
Governor Andrew Cuomo, a fellow Democrat who has feuded with the mayor, said the city should match the state's money so Lhota's plan can begin right away. "We cannot ask New Yorkers to wait one year to start repairs," he said.
Experts anticipate that Venezuela will make the payment to bondholders. But it has other payments coming due in the near future and could fall short on those if the economy continues to tailspin and the United States hits it with heavy sanctions.
"This model is broken, and default is inevitable," says Siobhan Morden, an expert in Latin American bonds at Nomura Holdings. Oil "sanctions will probably arrive sooner and force default sooner."
Related: Venezuela quells 'paramilitary' attack at base; 2 dead
President Trump slapped sanctions on Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro following a July 30 vote that allowed Maduro to replace the opposition-held National Assembly with a new legislature filled with his supporters.
Most countries around the world have dubbed the vote fraudulent and say the new Constituent Assembly is a sign of a dictatorship.
The Trump administration says harsher sanctions could come if the political situation continues to deteriorate. The ousting of Attorney General Luisa Ortega, along with oppressive police tactics against protesters, quickly proved the new government went against the international community's demands to restore democracy.
Related: Venezuela's hyperinflation is jaw dropping. Just see for yourself.
Trump's big weapon to retaliate: A ban on Venezuelan oil, the country's only source of income. The government's cash pile would quickly dry up if it couldn't sell to the United States, one of its top customers.
But sanctions are a double-edged sword. They could make Venezuela's food and medical shortages even worse than they already are. They could also embolden Maduro's base.
Beyond sanctions, Venezuela's economy continues to spiral our of control. The unofficial exchange rate that most Venezuelans use has more than doubled since late July. Inflation is expected to soar 720% this year and and over 2,000% next year, according to the International Monetary Fund.
Related: U.S. slaps sanctions on Venezuela President Maduro
Venezuela owes about $5 billion to bondholders for the rest of this year, and it has only $10 billion in the bank. It also owes billions more to China, Russia, energy companies and U.S. airlines.
Against that backdrop, experts say more sanctions from the White House would give Venezuela few options but to dry up its cash pile and miss payments.
"The U.S. has so far refrained from taking measures that would harm Venezuela's oil industry. Such a move would likely hasten a default scenario," says Win Thin, head of emerging market currency strategy at Brown Brothers Harriman, a private bank.
Given that Republicans control the House, it appears likely that the effort to find him in contempt will pass now that there's a formal recommendation to do so. And such a finding may give Trump grounds to remove Cordray.
In a statement, CFPB spokeswoman Jen Howard said the consumer agency has been " working diligently to comply with the Committee's oversight on a number of fronts."
She said the agency has "produced thousands of pages of documents thus far, and by next week ... We will continue our efforts to understand how we can respond to the Committee in a satisfactory manner."
The head of the committee, Rep. Jeb Hensarling, was already on record at a hearing in April urging President Trump to remove Cordray.
"I believe the president is clearly justified in dismissing you and I call upon the president...to do just that, and to do it immediately," said Hensarling said to Cordray at a hearing in April.
Related: It just got easier to sue your bank and credit card company
Cordray was attorney general of Ohio before he was tapped to become the first head the CFPB by President Obama in 2012. It is widely believed he is preparing to run for governor of Ohio next year. Current Ohio Governor John Kasich, a Republican, is barred by term limits from running for reelection. Cordray's term at CFPB runs for another year, but if he wants to make a run for governor, he would have to resign before then to launch his campaign.
The Dodd-Frank legislation that created the CFPB and imposed a number of new regulations on the financial sector has long been under attack by Republicans and the banking industry.
The Trump administration's proposal to reform Dodd-Frank specifically calls for the president to have the power to remove the head of the agency at will. "The CFPB was created to pursue an important mission, but its unaccountable structure and unduly broad regulatory powers have led to predictable regulatory abuses and excesses," said Treasury's reform proposal.
"I'm really curious about that extra warrior princess that motherhood, that you just see brought out in women. The extra power, the extra layer," Cole said in a new Boss Files with Poppy Harlow podcast.
Cole oversees Focus Brands' North American operations, including Cinnabon, Moe's Southwest Grill, Carvel, Auntie Anne's, Schlotzsky's, and other restaurant chains. She credits her rise to the influence of her own mother, who raised Cole and her two siblings almost entirely by herself and fed the family on just $10 a week.
"She's the ultimate believer, always saying you could do anything, even though there weren't really examples of people [with] white collar jobs, with professional careers on either side of my family," Cole says.
Cole's mother didn't attend college and was also raised by a single parent. "She's just the type of woman that can figure things out and make it happen," Cole says. "She worked multiple jobs. That's the leadership example I grew up with."
Cole's mother never lets her forget her roots, regardless of her growing professional success. "Every year on my birthday card, she writes some version of, 'Don't forget where you came from, but don't you dare ever let it solely define you,'" says Cole.
Cole calls it a concept of "your fruits are in your roots" -- but that doesn't mean they are your anchor.
When Cole was just 19 and working as a Hooters waitress, corporate called and said they needed "a top employee to go to Australia and help open the first ever franchise there," Cole recounts. "I'd never been on a plane. I didn't have a passport."
But "there were early believers" at the company, she says. So she got a passport and went.
Related: Bobbi Brown on her new venture: 'I am a start up'
Watching her mother get by on such a tight budget also gave Cole a unique perspective on the minimum wage debate that she says has put so many fast food executives in a tricky spot.
"I think the world is different today than it was when my mom was raising three girls," says Cole. "The income gap, the income disparity was not as severe as it is today. Whether or not a living wage is the answer or some of the other solutions that have been thrown around, the layer I put on it is first that of care for our society, healthy people, do no harm."
Raising the minimum wage is a delicate balance for many of the company's franchisees, Cole says. "They are small business owners with food costs going up and down, health care expenses going up... They're saying, 'I'm going to go out of business,'" she says. "The conversation we are having is back to this compromise, what you can be comfortable with in the name of progress?"
Focus Brands said wages for hourly workers at its franchisees vary across its broad range of markets in the U.S. and that it strives to "find and keep the best talent and paying well for top workers is a best practice."
Just like her career path, Cole's approach to management is unconventional. She admits part of what helps her maintain such a keen eye on customer demands is digging through the trash at their franchised restaurants -- literally.
Related: Ursula Burns: Government needs to help lift up the poor
"One of the most important questions is, what are we giving away, what are we selling, what are we providing or creating or investing in that the guest or customer actually doesn't value? Said another way: What ends up in the trash?"
She also tells consumers not to eat the products daily. "When I took over Cinnabon, I went on national television and said, 'Do not eat it every day! Please, please don't eat it every day, but man when you're in the rare mood to be bad, come to us. It's made with real sugar and real fat.'"
Despite her rise, Cole says she checks herself monthly with what she calls the "hotshot rule."
It's a gut check of sorts. "[I] ask myself, if a hotshot took over my position today, what is one thing... that that person would do if they had my seat, and look at it and say, 'That's unacceptable. I'm fixing it immediately,'" says Cole. "I check in with my values and ask does my current situation, work, policies, demands, relationship, personal time, does it jive with my values? And if not, it's on me to make a change."
Constantly striving is an apt way to describe Cole's drive. So does she want to be a CEO one day? "Oh yeah!" she quickly replies.
"I've turned down a lot of CEO opportunities. Small, mid-size companies and some pretty high level opportunities for larger companies."
In the meantime -- she's embracing the challenges and rewards of her new role -- and gearing up for her next chapter: motherhood.
Listen to the full Kat Cole interview here on Boss Files with Poppy Harlow.
Penn Treaty's liquidation poses a "potential shock to the health marketplace" as the losses pile up, according to the A.M. Best credit rating firm. Industry analysts estimate the parent company has long-term claims liabilities approaching $4 billion, but only about $700 million in assets.
This is one of the largest insurance failures in U.S. history, said Joseph M. Belth, a professor emeritus of insurance at Indiana University.
"The impact of this situation on the insurance industry is huge," Belth said. "Companies will try to pass it on in some fashion to policyholders."
Related: California ready to add Obamacare surcharge amid Trump's subsidy threats
California may be hardest hit. Its guarantee association faces a liability of $400.6 million, according to estimates prepared by Long Term Care Group Inc. for the National Organization of Life & Health Insurance Guaranty Associations. Florida was next at $360.4 million, followed by Pennsylvania at $269.9 million.
Health insurers can pass along those unforeseen costs by imposing premium surcharges on customers or shift the burden to taxpayers by paying less in state premium taxes. The rules vary by state. In California, insurers can levy a surcharge on policyholders.
Insurers have lately begun offering up their initial cost estimates, often buried deep in company securities filings and financial statements.
Anthem Inc., the nation's second-largest health insurer, estimates it will pay $253.8 million to cover its portion of Penn Treaty claims. In a securities filing last month, Anthem said "payment of the assessments will be largely recovered through premium billing surcharges and premium tax credits over future years."
Aetna, the industry's third-largest insurer, expects to pay $231 million. And San Francisco-based insurer Blue Shield of California has booked a loss of nearly $41 million. Those numbers may rise as Penn Treaty's policyholders collect on their benefits.
Most state guarantee associations will provide up to $300,000 in benefits for each Penn Treaty policyholder, but the limits vary by state. In California, for instance, the coverage extends to about $560,000. Penn Treaty's insurance units have about 73,000 policyholders nationwide.
Related: Ending 'bailouts' for insurers could cost millions
The expenses related to Penn Treaty may be small compared to the underlying medical costs that continue to drive up Americans' health insurance premiums. Still, some insurers may impose surcharges of up to 2 percent annually over several years to cover Penn Treaty assessments -- one more unwelcome charge tacked onto the country's growing health tab.
The demise of Penn Treaty is yet another black eye for the long-term care industry. For years, long-term care insurers have been hit by higher-than-expected claims, low investment returns and poor pricing. As a result, many companies left the business or began sharply raising premiums for existing customers.
In California, more than 130,000 people who bought long-term care policies from the state workers' retirement system received 85 percent rate hikes in recent years. A consumer lawsuit against the California Public Employees' Retirement System over the legality of those rate increases won class-action status last year.
The state agency has defended the rate hikes as necessary and proper.
Penn Treaty's financial troubles date back to 2009. Years of legal wrangling culminated in a Pennsylvania judge's ruling that the company was insolvent. She ordered the insurance commissioner there to liquidate the firm.
"After a long and difficult eight-year legal process, the court's decision to approve the liquidation recognizes the companies' financial difficulties are too great to be remedied," Pennsylvania Insurance Commissioner Teresa Miller said in March.
Related: Obamacare crisis nearly fixed in Ohio
In these situations, long-term care coverage is treated as health insurance so health insurers are liable for assessments.
Some health insurers, such as UnitedHealth and Aetna, have challenged this classification and argued that long-term care is more like life insurance. Looking beyond Penn Treaty, Belth said, health insurers are concerned about other long-term care companies going under and saddling them with even more losses.
"Virtually all of the health insurance companies, especially the big ones, have never sold long-term care insurance," Belth said, "so they are not appreciative of being assessed."
"Probably not," said John Delury, a professor at Yonsei University in South Korea. "Because one thing [North Korea is] good at is taking pain."
The U.N. Security Council has hit North Korea with layer after layer of sanctions since 2006, but the moves have failed to thwart the country's nuclear ambitions. Last month, it carried out two ballistic missile tests, setting off fears that the U.S. mainland is now within its reach.
Related: North Korea's economy grew fast last year but slowdown looms
Sanctions have been ineffective
North Korea has "an impressive track record over its whole history, going back to the 1940s when it was founded, of being able to ... weather virtually any kind of economic pressure," Delury told CNN. "This is not the kind of regime that is easy to bring to its knees."
The new U.N. resolution goes further than previous sanctions by aiming to cut deeper into the wider North Korean economy. It received the backing of China, North Korea's main ally and economic partner, but some analysts are skeptical Beijing will fully comply in practice.
"The $1 billion number depends on China implementing the U.N. sanctions, we only have 11 years of evidence they will not do so," tweeted Anthony Ruggiero, a former official at the U.S. State and Treasury departments.
Related: More North Korea sanctions? They haven't worked so far
A U.N. report earlier this year warned that the enforcement of existing sanctions on North Korea by countries around the world "remains insufficient and highly inconsistent."
Secretary of State Rex Tillerson acknowledged the problem of enforcement on Monday, telling reporters that the U.S. would be "monitoring that carefully and certainly having conversations with any and all that we see who may not be fully embracing not just the spirit of those sanctions but the operational execution of those sanctions."
What will China do?
Beijing has found itself caught between Trump's demands to put greater pressure on Kim's regime and its own desire to keep North Korea as a strategic buffer against U.S. influence in the region.
By supporting the latest U.N. resolution, Beijing may have dodged -- for the time being -- U.S. sanctions against Chinese companies that are suspected of doing business with the North Korean regime.
Last week, Trump signed a new bill that gave him additional authority to punish such firms. Many analysts had expected him to use it soon -- but that was before China's backing of the new U.N. resolution.
"Elements of the Trump administration will now argue China and Russia need time to implement the resolution," said Ruggiero, now a senior fellow at the Foundation for Defense of Democracies in Washington. "That happens in every administration and is part of the failed N.K. sanctions policy that got us into this mess."
Related: Trump sanctions Chinese bank in bid to rein in North Korea
However, any breathing room China has gained isn't likely to last long, according to Tong Zhao, a fellow at the Carnegie-Tsinghua Center for Global Policy in Beijing.
Chinese President Xi Jinping wants to keep the U.S.-China relationship steady, especially with a key Chinese leadership meeting approaching in the fall. But he won't tolerate measures that risk pushing the North Korean economy toward collapse.
"It's a serious dilemma for China," Zhao said. "I don't see any sustainable solution going forward if they continue in this direction."
2. Consumers hit by Brexit: U.K. consumer spending fell for a third consecutive month in July, according to a new report by Markit for Visa.
Spending on transportation, communication, footwear and clothing took the biggest hit.
British consumers are feeling the squeeze of higher prices and uncertainty over the country's exit from the European Union.
Britain's impending departure the EU caused a steep drop in the value of the pound, leading to higher import prices and rising inflation.
The pound was trading at $1.30 early Monday morning, 13% lower than the day of the Brexit referendum in June 2016.
Before the Bell newsletter: Key market news. In your inbox. Subscribe now!
3. Global market overview: U.S. stock futures were higher on Monday, pointing to another day of gains on Wall Street.
CNNMoney's Fear & Greed Index is firmly in greed territory.
The Dow Jones industrial average closed up 0.3% on Friday, while the S&P 500 and the Nasdaq both gained 0.2%.
European markets were mixed early on Monday, while Asian markets ended the session mostly higher.
4. Earnings and economics: Marriott (MAR) is set to release earnings after the close on Monday. The stock is up 27% so far this year.
CBS (CBS) is also scheduled to report after the closing bell.
German industrial production fell 1.1% in June compared to the previous month, reversing almost all of the gains made in May. Still, the German economy is expected to grow strongly this year.
Download CNN MoneyStream for up-to-the-minute market data and news
5. Coming this week:
Monday -- Marriott (MAR) and CBS (CBS) earnings  Tuesday -- Disney (DIS), CVS (CVS), Michael Kors (KORS), Ralph Lauren (RL) report earnings; Chinese and German foreign trade data Wednesday -- American crude inventories data; U.S. productivity report; Mylan (MYL), 21st Century Fox (FOX) earnings; Chinese inflation report Thursday -- Snap (SNAP), Blue Apron (APRN), NVIDIA (NVDA, Tech30), Macy's (M), Nordstrom (JWN), News Corp (NWSA), and Kohl's (KSS) report earnings Friday -- U.S. inflation report; J. C. Penney earnings
That's why Republican proposals to reduce or eliminate key tax breaks for giving has charity experts a little concerned. Specifically, President Trump and House Republicans have proposed to nearly double the standard deduction, lower income tax rates and repeal the estate tax.
Though it's assumed the charitable deduction would remain in place, increasing the standard deduction would mean far fewer people would itemize and be able to claim the break, while lowering tax rates would make the deduction worth less for those who still take it.
Related: The deductions that could be killed by tax reform
The double whammy of doubling the standard deduction while lowering the top rate to 35% from 39.6% could reduce giving by between $5 billion and $13 billion a year, or up to 4.6%, according to a recent study by the Lilly Family School of Philanthropy at Indiana University.
Of those two changes, increasing the standard deduction has the greatest negative effect because it would reduce those who itemize to just 5% of filers, down from 30% today. That's because the only reason to itemize is if your deductions combined exceed the value of the standard deduction.
"The 25% who used to itemize will probably give some but not as much," said David Thompson, vice president of policy at the National Council of Nonprofits.
How much does it save
Here's how the charitable deduction works:
If you itemize deductions, how much you save in taxes from your contributions is determined by your top income tax rate. If, for example, you're in the 28% bracket, you'll save $28 in taxes for every $100 you donate.
And if you are fortunate enough to have an estate worth more than $5.5 million (or $11 million for married couples), anything above those amounts would be subject to the federal estate tax after you die. Whatever you give in your lifetime or bequeath to your heirs upon death can reduce that taxable portion.
Related: The most controversial tax reform proposal has been nixed
Many charity groups have urged lawmakers to make the charitable deduction "universal" -- meaning everyone can take it whether they itemize or not. "Our nation has a rich history of charitable giving. By making it a universal deduction we think that it recognizes this important value," said Sean Parnell of The Philanthropy Roundtable.
The Lilly Family School study estimates such a change would increase donations -- by between 0.4% and 4.3% -- depending on what other reforms are made.
While lawmakers are giving the proposal "very serious look," according to The Hill, a universal deduction would cost the federal government money -- between $191 billion to $515 billion in lost revenue over a decade, the Tax Foundation estimates. And Congress will be hard up for cash if they manage to pass even half of the tax cuts Republicans want.
Repealing the estate tax is also likely to hit giving, but it's unclear by how much. Various studies over the years have estimated that repeal could reduce bequests anywhere from 6% to 37%.
Still, some people might actually give more in the wake of repeal. Today, a very wealthy person engaged in estate planning has to decide how much he wants to give to family, how much to charity and how much to government, said economist Patrick Rooney, who worked on the Lilly study.
Once the government bucket is removed, it leaves more money for the other two. "If they have a larger estate because less is going to the government, then they may be inclined to gift more to charity," said Elda Di Re, a partner in private client services in the tax department at EY.
Either way, though, income tax rates will influence current behavior more than the estate tax repeal, Di Re added. "People don't know when they will die, and don't know what the rules will be [when they do], so they would be less inclined to change their estate plans."
2. Blue Apron earnings: Blue Apron (APRN) will also share its second quarter financial report on Thursday.
The company's June IPO was supposed to whet Wall Street's appetite for meal delivery services, but investors hardly took a bite. Its first day of trading was a bust.
It got worse. On Friday, Blue Apron's stock dipped by more than 6% following news that it is shutting down its operation in Jersey City and will move more than 1,200 employees to a new plant. The company's shares also fell earlier this month when it was reported that Amazon filed a trademark for its own meal-kit delivery service. Burgeoning competition from the likes of Hello Fresh, Plated, Purple Carrot, Sun Basket and other similar startups has always been a concern for Blue Apron. With Amazon (AMZN, Tech30) -- and, once Amazon's deal goes through, Whole Foods (WFM) -- in the mix, the landscape will only get tougher for the company.
3. Retail earnings: Macy's (M), Nordstrom (JWN) and Kohl's (KSS) are all reporting second quarter earnings on Thursday. Both Macy's and Kohl's reported lousy earnings in the first quarter -- yet another signal to investors that retailers are fighting for their lives.
Amazon and other online retailers like the Walmart (WMT)-owned Jet.com are posing the biggest threats to traditional brick and mortar stores, and Macy's CEO Jeff Gennette said the company plans to "aggressively grow our digital and mobile business."
But Kohl's was a rare bright spot for retail in the first quarter. It beat Wall Street forecasts, and Kohl's CEO Kevin Mansell said he was "encouraged by the significant improvement in sales and traffic."
Target (TGT) recently raised its profit forecast and JCPenney (JCP) announced a plan to increase foot traffic by installing specialty toy shops in its stores, raising investors' hopes for a less-disappointing quarter.
4. Disney earnings: The House of Mouse will report its second-quarter earnings on Tuesday, and Wall Street will be especially interested in ESPN. The struggling sports network has been dragging Disney down, despite the company's many wins in the box office over the past few years.
In 2016, Disney (DIS) shares remained flat, thanks in large part to ESPN's falling subscribers and lower ad revenue -- all of which led to some high-profile layoffs. In 2017, its stock has continued to struggle.
5. Coming this week:
Monday -- Marriott (MAR) earnings
Tuesday -- Disney earnings; CVS (CVS) earnings
Wednesday -- Mylan (MYL) earnings; 21st Century Fox  (FOX)
Thursday -- Snap, Blue Apron, Macy's, Nordstrom and Kohl's report earnings
The cars are particularly vulnerable to the issue when a driver performs low-speed turns, according to NHTSA.
More than 690,000 vehicles -- model year 2014 Chevrolet Silverados and GMC Sierra trucks -- are potentially affected by the issue.
GM (GM) is telling owners of the trucks involved in the recall to take their vehicles into a dealer, where they can receive free of charge a software update to fix the issue.
Drivers can check to see if their car is among the recalled vehicles on NHTSA's website.
Owners can also contact Chevrolet customer service at 1-800-222-1020 or GMC customer service at 1-800-432-8782.
"I'm in pain every day," she said, but "it's not bad enough to go into debt."
The concept behind high-deductible plans was to lower premiums and reduce overall health costs by ensuring that consumers shared the financial burden of their own health care decisions. But evidence is mounting: High deductibles have actually forced people to delay care that could prevent health emergencies later or improve their quality of life.
Related: Ending 'bailouts' for insurers could cost millions their health coverage
Regardless of what happens to the Affordable Care Act, such plans are likely to become more widespread as health care costs continue to rise. Just over half of people with health plans from their employers now have a deductible of $1,000 or more, up from 10% in 2006, according to the Kaiser Family Foundation. (Kaiser Health News, which produces California Healthline, is an editorially independent program of the foundation.)
"People who have medical problems that can be put off tend to do so much more now because of the high deductible," said Dr. Ted Mazer, a San-Diego based head and neck surgeon who is president-elect of the California Medical Association.
Annual deductibles can amount to many thousands of dollars on some plans. Covered California bronze plans, with the lowest premiums available on the exchange, carry deductibles of $6,300 for an individual and $12,600 for a family.
A Kaiser Family Foundation survey released this year showed that 43% of insured people reported having trouble paying their deductible, up from 34% in 2015.
In one study by the liberal advocacy group Families USA, more than a quarter of people in high-deductible plans delayed some type of medical service, such as a doctor visit or diagnostic test. And 44% of adults with high out-of-pocket expenses put off medical care, according to a nonpartisan Commonwealth Fund study.
Another recent study by researchers at the University of California-Berkeley and Harvard University found that people with high-deductible plans spent 42% less on health care before meeting their deductibles, primarily by reducing the amount of health care they received, not by shopping around for a better price.
Jonathan Kolstad, associate professor of economics at UC-Berkeley's business school and co-author of the study, said patients dropped both needed care, such as diabetes medication, and potentially unnecessary care, such as imaging for headaches.
Related: As Delaware's health insurance options shrink, families hold their breath
"Left to their own devices, people [in high-deductible plans] seem ill-equipped to make their own decisions" about what care they need, and what care they don't, Kolstad said.
Mazer said that, in his practice, people have delayed all kinds of treatment that may not save "life or limb" but involved medical conditions that interfered with breathing or sleeping.
He said he's had patients who needed a biopsy to determine if an abnormal vocal cord was cancerous, and they put it off because of the cost.
"I have to make the phone call and say, 'We're looking at a mass that may be malignant and if you put it off you're putting yourself at risk,'" Mazer said. "And I'll tell you, we've had people take that risk."
Recent Republican proposals to repeal Obamacare have promoted the use of high-deductible plans by allowing people to put away more tax-free dollars into the health savings accounts that consumers use in conjunction with those plans. And experts said the proposals would also spur the growth of these plans -- by cutting the subsidies available through exchanges, inducing customers to look for cheaper plans with higher deductibles.
Conservatives say insurance that promotes personal financial responsibility helps tamp down overall health costs. Hoover Institution analysts, for example, argue that high deductibles encourage patients to "choose wisely."
But new evidence suggests that putting off care can be dangerous and, eventually, more costly to patients.
A March 2017 Harvard study found that low-income patients with diabetes who had high-deductible plans delayed visits for complications such as skin infections and pneumonia. They wound up getting more expensive care later on.
Patients may try to treat their conditions at home, or hope they go away — but if that approach fails, "they then have to seek care at the emergency department," said Frank Wharam, a health policy researcher at Harvard Medical School and lead author of the study.
Related: In Texas, people with erratic incomes risk being cut off from Medicaid
Wharam said the middle-income earners he studied didn't suffer any adverse effects from health care choices they made in high-deductible plans, adding that more studies are needed on that group.
Sabrina Corlette, from the Georgetown University Center on Health Insurance Reforms, said that until national health policy addresses the "underlying costs of care," patients in high-deductible plans will likely be stuck with the difficult task of figuring out what medical attention they need or can afford.
Heck said the symptoms from her back injury have changed — the pain is in a different part of the body than it was right after the injury. But she's not even considering a trip to a nearby clinic for a new assessment. That would require another MRI, she said, which could cost at least $1,500, and it might not even help her. If her deductible weren't as high, she'd feel "freer" to explore other health care options, she said.
For now, she's taking a lot of ibuprofen and seeing a chiropractor.
"A lot of people get stuck in this place," she said.
Kaiser Health News, a nonprofit health newsroom whose stories appear in news outlets nationwide, is an editorially independent part of the Kaiser Family Foundation.