
BEIJING (Reuters) — China has never said its economy must grow 7 percent this year, Premier Li Keqiang said in comments reported by the government ahead of a key meeting this week that will set economic and social targets for the next five years. Li's comments coincide with remarks by a top central bank official, who said Saturday that China would be able to keep annual economic growth at around 6-7 percent over that period. The statements come at a time of growing concern in global financial markets over China's once-mighty economic juggernaut.
China cut interest rates for the sixth time in less than a year Friday. Monetary-policy easing in the world's second-largest economy is at its most aggressive since the 2008-2009 financial crisis, as growth looks set to slip to a 25-year-low this year of under 7 percent.
China's economy grew 6.9 percent in the July-to-September quarter from a year earlier, data showed last week.
Speaking Friday at the Central Party School, which trains rising officials, Li said the economic difficulties ahead for China should not be underestimated. His report to the annual meeting of parliament set this year's gross-domestic-product growth target at about 7 percent.
"We have never said that we should defend to the death any goal, but that the economy should operate within a reasonable range," the central government paraphrased Li as saying in a statement released on its website late Saturday.
Chinese leaders will signal that growth is their priority over reform by setting a growth target of around 7 percent in the next long-term plan, policy insiders say. The Communist Party of China's central committee will meet from Monday to Thursday to set out the 13th Five-Year plan.
The party's People's Daily listed on its microblog Sunday what it said were 10 focus areas for the Five-Year Plan, including maintaining economic growth, improving the industrial structure and pushing forward innovation. It gave no details.
Nevertheless, while the focus is on growth, China is still moving ahead on financial reforms.
Besides cutting interest rates Friday, the People's Bank of China (PBOC) said it was also freeing the interest-rate market by scrapping a ceiling on deposit rates. The change, which Beijing had promised to deliver for months, will in theory allow banks to price loans according to their risk, and remove a distortion to the price of credit that analysts say fuels wasteful investment in China. It should also offer some reassurance to financial markets after they were unsettled by the chaotic responses to the country's recent stock-market plunge and then a yuan devaluation.
The deposit-rate reform builds on the introduction of deposit insurance, creating space for smaller banks to compete with their larger rivals. It is seen as a long-term step toward a more market-driven banking sector, if smaller banks lend funds to parts of the economy shunned by larger banks.
'New Normal'
China's economic growth has not been bad over the last year considering the problems in the global economy, Li said. And there were reasons for optimism going forward, such as rising employment, more spending on tourism and a fast-growing service sector, he said.
"The hard work of people up and down the country and the enormous potential of China's economy gives us more confidence that we can overcome the various difficulties," Li said.
While the government has flagged a "new normal" of slower growth as it attempts to shift the economy to sustainable, consumption-led growth, official data show it has consistently at least met, and mostly exceeded, the growth targets it sets.
Beijing needs average growth of close to 7 percent over the next five years to hit a previously declared goal of doubling GDP and per capita income by 2020 from 2010.
But the stock-market turmoil and unexpected fallout from the modest yuan devaluation have raised fears among policymakers that an abrupt slowdown in growth could spark systemic risks and destabilize the economy.
(Reporting by Ben Blanchard and Meng Meng; Editing by Dean Yates)
USAA, one of the largest issuers of credit and debit cards in the United States, switched its portfolio to Visa Inc., ending a three-decade relationship with MasterCard Inc.
USAA, which primarily provides financial services to military personnel and their families, said in a statement on its website that most of the cards would be changed from MasterCard to Visa by next year.
“As our primary network, this provides us the opportunity to provide more benefits, including the elimination of foreign transaction fees for all USAA Visa credit cards in 2016,” the company said in the statement.
USAA is MasterCard’s biggest debit-card issuer with $26 billion of purchases made on its cards last year, the Wall Street Journal reported, citing the Nilson Report, a Carpinteria, California-based newsletter that tracks the industry.
MasterCard said it is disappointed with the decision. “While we pursued the business, we reached a point where the economics did not make sense for our company and shareholders,” MasterCard said in a statement, according to the Journal. 
The financial institution's move is the latest in an ongoing tussle for large portfolios that are sought-after by Visa, MasterCard and American Express Co. However, it is relatively rare for card issuers to drop a network after such a long partnership.
Earlier this year, American Express Co. reportedly ended its 16-year relationship with Costco Wholesale Corp. by switching to Citigroup Inc. as its new card issuer and Visa as its new card network.
Walgreens initially planned to use Theranos bloodwork centers in all 8,200 of its pharmacies across the United States, but an investigative report came out showing Theranos was having trouble with its much vaunted but proprietary and mysterious blood testing technology. Now, Walgreens has tabled its plans to implement the system nationwide.
Theranos' Edison blood testing machines supposedly were revolutionary in that they required only a few drops of blood for testing instead of the standard vial. But an investigation by the Wall Street Journal revealed in mid-October the company was using the device for only a tiny portion of the blood tests it handled, and it also allegedly failed to report instances of problems with the technology.
Executives from the two companies met Thursday after Walgreens requested a meeting, and Walgreens said Friday it would not open new Theranos centers until issues around its technology were resolved, the Wall Street Journal reported. By Saturday, the relationship was officially suspended, for now.
"We are currently in discussions about the next phase of our relationship. Plans to open more Theranos Wellness Centers are dependent upon both companies' ability to reach a mutually beneficial agreement," Markeisha Marshall, a spokesperson for Walgreens, told USA Today Saturday.    Elizabeth Holmes, founder and CEO of Theranos, speaks at the Wall Street Journal Digital Live conference at the Montage Hotel in Laguna Beach, California, Oct. 21, 2015.  Photo: Reuters/Mike Blake
Walgreens' plans to collaborate with Theranos date back to September 2013 when the companies established a long-term partnership to make Theranos' testing available throughout Walgreens pharmacies across the U.S. Theranos would provide customers with "less invasive and more affordable clinician-directed lab testing from a blood sample as small as a few drops," a press release on Theranos' website promised in November 2013 when a new center opened in Phoenix. Theranos' method would "[eliminate] the need for large needles and numerous vials of blood typically required for diagnostic lab testing," the release said.
Theranos' website still extols its technology more than a week after the revelations emerged. "Our tests, including venous draws, require smaller samples than traditional labs," Theranos' website read Saturday. "So whether it's a few drops collected with a finger-stick, or the smallest venous draw sample possible, Theranos tests mean less blood, an easier process, and a clear difference."
NEW YORK - A 5-3 defeat to the Boston Bruins on Friday night was particularly noteworthy for the New York Islanders. The Isles were looking to extend their four-game winning streak and avoid their first regulation home loss of the season at Barclays Center, but some costly turnovers may mean the Isles place extra emphasis on playing disciplined hockey. 
Fortunately for the Islanders, their head coach is aware of the poor execution, and had no problem voicing his displeasure. After the error-prone loss, Jack Capuano was quick to address the concerns of not playing "Islander hockey."
"When you don't manage the puck, you're not going to have success. That's not our style of hockey. We had too many turnovers, too many giveaways. That's going to tilt the ice. It's going to lead to more zone time for the opposition. And in the second period, you got the long changes, as well," Capuano said after the game. 
"You don't manage the puck, it's not going to work for you."
Capuano seemed to vent to reporters about the abundance of miscues against Boston.
"There's a few lines, for whatever reason tonight... the puck's in the middle of the ice, really just no discipline in our decision-making tonight with the puck. And that's really what it came down to. For parts of the second period, we were playing pond hockey. We didn't manage the puck. We didn't do anything. It doesn't surprise me that eventually [the Bruins] were going to get [a goal].
"You can't turn the puck over in this league. There are too many skilled guys, and they're going to take advantage of it."
For all the discussion about the Islanders move to Barclays, it was the team's lone poor showing after leaving the Nassau Coliseum. New York is 3-1-1 in their new arena and has generally played smart hockey in their new home. After opening the season with an overtime loss to the Stanley Cup champion Chicago Blackhawks, the Islanders have earned wins over the Winnipeg Jets, Nashville Predators, San Jose Sharks by a combined score of 16-8.
On Saturday, the Islanders face the St. Louis Blues at Scottrade Center. 
WASHINGTON (Reuters) -- Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen will appear at the Joint Economic Committee of the U.S. Congress on Dec. 3, a committee representative said Saturday. "Chair Yellen is scheduled to testify before the Joint Economic Committee the morning of Thursday, December 3," Kristine Michalson said in an email.
The Fed's policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee is meeting next week, but it is not expected to raise rates, which have been kept near zero for nearly seven years.
Economists see a December rate increase as more likely, but futures markets are not pointing to a move until next year.
(Reporting by David Chance; Writing by Mohammad Zargham; Editing by Hugh Lawson)
BEIJING (Reuters) -- China will be able to keep economic growth at around 6 to 7 percent annually over the next three to five years, a top People's Bank of China policymaker said Saturday, a day after the bank cut interest rates for the sixth time in less than a year. The comments by Yi Gang, vice governor of the PBOC, appeared to be aimed at reassuring investors this level of growth, the slowest pace in two decades but still faster than other major economies, is the Chinese economy's "new normal."
"China's future economic growth will still be relatively quick. Around seven, six-point-something -- these will all be very normal," Yi said at a conference in Beijing.
As well as cutting interest rates Friday, the PBOC lowered the amount of cash that banks must hold as reserves.
Both moves were bids to jump-start growth in China's slowing economy, a drag on global growth that has been of major concern in emerging markets and other leading economies.
Monetary-policy easing in the world's second-largest economy is at its most aggressive since the 2008-2009 financial crisis, as growth looks set to slip to a 25-year-low this year of under 7 percent.
China will lower the reserve requirement ratio -- the amount of cash that major banks need to keep on hand -- in the future at a "normal" pace, Yi said. The vice governor said the PBOC planned to keep interest rates at a reasonable level to reduce the corporate debt burden, and noted that interest-rate liberalization does not mean that the central bank would reduce regulation of rates. China will also continue to set benchmark lending and deposit rates for some time, he said, but these rates would not restrict market pricing.
Data released Monday showed China's economy grew 6.9 percent between July and September from a year earlier, dipping below 7 percent for the first time since the global financial crisis.
Yi noted that China's stock market, which has fallen sharply since June, had completed most of its adjustments and that the yuan, which was buffetted in the wake of a surprise devaluation in early August, has stabilized. The PBOC was looking into leverage levels in the debt market, he noted.
Yi also commented on China's debt levels. He said China did not have exceptionally high debt levels, and while the bank is not overly anxious about cutting the level of leverage in the economy, the overall strategy is to stabilize leverage levels.
(Reporting by Gui Qing Koh and Alexandra Harney; Editing by Jeremy Gaunt)
FRANKFURT (Reuters) - Volkswagen will freeze managerial promotions next year at its VW division as part of a savings drive to help meet the cost of a scandal over diesel emissions tests, a German business magazine reported on Saturday.
The German company also plans to re-use as many parts as possible in the next generation of its popular Golf model to save hundreds of millions of euros, according to the Manager Magazin report, which cited Volkswagen sources.
Europe's largest carmaker is battling the biggest business crisis in its 78-year history after admitting last month it installed software in diesel vehicles to deceive U.S. regulators about the true level of their toxic emissions.
Manager Magazin said Volkswagen now saw the costs of the scandal exceeding 30 billion euros ($33.1 billion), most of which new Chief Executive Matthias Mueller planned to record at the VW brand, sparing its more upmarket Audi and Porsche subsidiaries.
Volkswagen, which could not immediately be reached for comment on Saturday's report, has said it will cut investment plans at its VW division -- the largest by revenue -- and speed up cost cutting.
According to Manager Magazin, Volkswagen also aims to improve productivity and efficiency at VW plants as part of the savings drive, which could lead to job losses.
It cited company sources as saying no cuts to headcount had been agreed with workers' representatives so far.
The ride-hailing service Uber Technologies Inc. is planning to raise $1 billion in new venture capital, sources close to the matter told the New York Times Friday. The news comes barely three months after its last round of funding as Uber seems poised for a valuation of $60 billion to $70 billion, the report said.  
The latest round of funding, if successful, would make Uber the world’s most valuable private start-up , the Times said. Uber is valued at more than $50 billion at present. This would be the eighth round of financing that the company has sought over the last five years.
The report did not mention which investors were involved in the latest round. Uber's current investors include Goldman Sachs, Google Ventures and Chinese internet giant Baidu Inc. 
Uber has raised funds at a furious pace as it aims to dethrone the much-stronger Chinese ride-hailing service Didi Kuaidi in China.  The two have spent heavily on subsidies to get the best deal for users and drivers. Last week, Uber founder and CEO Travis Kalanick said that about 30 percent of trips on Uber now take place in China.
As it aggressively pushes its prospects in the Asia Pacific region and Europe, Uber faces stiff competition from local ride-hailing services and frequent clampdowns from government regulators. The company has earmarked more than $1 billion to face regulatory fights in Thailand, Singapore and Vietnam, over the last year.
However, swelling investor appetite for its growth plans has allowed Uber to gain foothold in new markets faster and offer cheaper rides to users. Earlier this year, the company said it was opening in a new location every other day.
Investors are pouring money into the US-based company at a rapid rate in what they see as huge potential in untapped opportunities like on-demand delivery services, according to the Times. Uber has made initial forays into widening its services pool with projects like Uber Eats, a food delivery service, and Uber Rush, a shopping delivery service in certain cities.
By Caroline Humer and Bill Berkrot
BOSTON/NEW YORK (Reuters) -- A panel of medical experts said on Friday the prices of prescription medicines in the United States need to be brought in line with the value they bring to patients instead of continuing to let drugmakers set any price they choose.
"Americans at the same time are getting tremendously ripped off with drugs and also getting tremendous value and we almost never know when we're getting ripped off and when we're getting real value and that has to change," said Steven Pearson, president of the Institute for Clinical and Economic Review (ICER), an independent non-profit group that evaluates clinical and cost effectiveness of new medicines.
Panelists taking part in Drug Pricing: Public Health Implications, presented by Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health in collaboration with Reuters, saw serious limitations in solutions being proposed by politicians to rein in prices that are vastly higher than what the rest of the world pays.
Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton recently proposed capping patient co-pays as a way to help people cope with rising out-of-pocket medical costs.
But Meredith Rosenthal, professor of Health Economics and Policy at Harvard, likened that to minor pain relief. "The patient is bleeding and now you've numbed it ... and you haven't gotten to the root of the problem."
Calls to allow the government Medicare program to negotiate drug prices as it does the cost of so many other aspects of medical care were deemed unrealistic or problematic.
"In this country we are millions of miles away from the idea that Medicare is going to have some kind of stamp to say here is the price of a drug," ICER's Pearson said.
New cancer treatments that can cost well over $100,000 a year, and far more when combination therapies are used, were of particular concern.
"I'm appalled at how many Americans are going into bankruptcy because of outrageous costs," said Dr. Lowell Schnipper, chairman of the American Society of Clinical Oncology's Value in Cancer Care Task Force.
He called for a systematic way to determine if a new cancer medicine is of low, medium or high value to patients, and suggested perhaps only paying for drugs when they work.
Schnipper was not in favor of solutions that remove incentives for drugmakers to spend money needed to develop important new medicines.
"As a doctor who treats patients I want new drugs," he said. "Some of these are nothing short of miraculous. We need to reward innovation in some way."
(Reporting by Bill Berkrot; Editing by Toni Reinhold)
By Rodrigo Campos
NEW YORK (Reuters) -- The Nasdaq 100 index, dominated by U.S. technology stocks, may set a record high next week, helped by good earnings from Apple Inc expected on Tuesday.
Technology shares led the U.S. stock market's recovery this week from its worst correction in four years in August, thanks to gains in Alphabet, Amazon and Microsoft, after the three companies reported better-than-expected earnings results.
The Dow Jones industrial average rose 0.9 percent to 17,646.70, the S&P 500 index.SPX recovered another 1.1 percent to 2,075.15, and the Nasdaq Composite closed the week up 2.27 percent at 5,031.86.
Shares across Asia, Europe and the Americas all climbed, boosted by Thursday's message from European Central Bank chief Mario Draghi that he was ready to increase the ECB's bond buying program, and by an interest rate cut by China's central bank. 
Factors this coming week that may provide further support for U.S. stocks include a Federal Reserve policy meeting, which is not expected to raise interest rates yet, a report on U.S. third-quarter economic growth, and earnings from Apple.
The Nasdaq 100 index, including Apple, is just 1.5 percent below its year high and 4.0 percent from its record high back in March 2000.
Intel and Microsoft have seen their stocks recover more than 30 percent each since Aug. 25, while Amazon and Facebook rose 28 percent and 23 percent, respectively.
But the "underperformer" among these companies has been Apple, up only 14.8 percent from its Aug. 25 close, less than the Nasdaq 100's 15.1 percent gain in that time.
In contrast to Microsoft, Facebook, Alphabet and Amazon, Apple shares did not post record or multi-year highs this week, even though it rose 7.2 percent, the largest weekly gain in a year.
On Tuesday, though, Apple is expected to report $51.1 billion in revenue, a 21.3 percent increase compared to the same quarter of last year. Earnings are seen at $1.879 per share.
"The bar has been raised a bit on its earnings report from where it was a week ago. The price action is telling you there's more optimism built into it," said Michael James, managing director of equities trading at Wedbush Securities in Los Angeles.
Options market action shows traders expect Apple shares to move roughly 5.0 percent by the end of next week. The average move for the stock the day after its report in the last eight quarters was 4.4 percent, up or down.
"Will an above-estimates from Apple and raised guidance help? Sure it will. But we could still get there without that happening," said James of the possibility of the Nasdaq 100 hitting a record.
"The power of the moves in some of these large cap tech stocks has been breathtaking," he said.
Chip makers were also among the top five percentage gainers in the Nasdaq 100 since the index closed at its 2015 low on Aug. 25, with SanDisk topping the list with a 70 percent jump on the back of a takeover bid from Western Digital.
The overwhelming leadership from established technology companies is a positive for this market move higher, according to Kim Forrest, senior equity research analyst at Fort Pitt Capital Group in Pittsburgh.
"The last time the Nasdaq 100 was the market leader a lot of it was speculative investments, but these (tech) companies actually return money to shareholders," she said.
"Tech deserves the leadership; the stock market is rewarding growth."
BIOTECH THE FLIP SIDE TO TECH STOCK LEADERSHIP
While technology stocks have led the market recovery, biotech stocks have been a drag on performance.
The Nasdaq Biotech Index is down 3.5 percent from its Aug. 25 close, and more than 20 percent below its year high. The three index components with the largest declines in market capitalization in the last eight weeks are Mylan, Illumina and Biogen.
"There has been a major rotation out of healthcare and into tech and it has continued after the recent earnings reports," said Wedbush's James, referring to strong results from Amazon, Microsoft and Alphabet.
Biotech stocks were shaken in September when U.S. presidential candidate Hillary Clinton first tweeted concerns about drug prices and the selling spread to other areas of the healthcare sector. Investors have been dumping shares of everything from hospitals to traditional pharmaceutical companies and insurers in recent weeks.
Since peaking in July, the Nasdaq Biotech Index has fallen 23 percent, the broad S&P Health Care Index has lost 12 percent and the S&P 500 Health Care Facilities index is down 31 percent.
Fund managers now say they expect regulatory threats on drug prices, disappointing earnings, higher interest rates that could hurt heavily indebted hospitals, and the loss of the initial Obamacare boost to business to all weigh on health sector stocks this year.
(Reporting by Rodrigo Campos; Editing by Clive McKeef)
DETROIT (Reuters) -- General Motors Co will cut 500 jobs as a shift is eliminated at a plant near Detroit that makes weak-selling small cars, the company said on Friday.
The decision comes a day after GM said it would add 1,200 jobs and a shift at the Detroit-Hamtramck plant.
The shift at the small-car Lake Orion plant near Detroit will end by early next year, and the new shift at the Detroit-Hamtramck plant will begin in the first quarter, GM said.
Most of the Lake Orion workers losing their jobs will be able to transfer to the Detroit-Hamtramck plant, said a GM spokesman.
The Lake Orion plant produces the Buick Verano sedan and the Chevrolet Sonic. Verano sales are down 27 percent this year and Sonic sales are off 35 percent, as low gasoline prices have helped boost demand for larger SUVs and pickup trucks.
GM has said it will make the electric small car Bolt at Lake Orion as well as a not-yet-named new product. Supplier sources have told Reuters that Verano production will cease at Lake Orion in late 2016, and shift to a plant in China.
In June, GM announced a $245 million investment at Lake Orion.
(Reporting by Bernie Woodall; Editing by Jeffrey Benkoe)
By Jeffrey Dastin
(Reuters) -- American Airlines Group Inc, the world's largest airline, on Friday said it will roll out bare-bones fares in 2016 to battle U.S. budget carriers, overshadowing a surge in its third-quarter profit.
American's stock fell nearly 1 percent.
American will match competitors' prices on any nonstop route, its president, Scott Kirby, said on an investor call.
The airline's move to sell cheap fares with more restrictions highlights how competition is intensifying between the largest U.S. airlines and low-cost rivals, such as Spirit Airlines Inc and Southwest Airlines Co.
Shares of Spirit, which has made its mark with ultra-low fares with heavy restrictions, fell more than 8 percent.
Some 87 percent of American's customers flew the airline just once last year, comprising more than 50 percent of revenue, according to Kirby. He said these are customers "for whom air travel is largely a commodity," meaning they will switch to a competitor if American charges more per ticket.
Sterne Agee CRT analyst Adam Hackel said American's vow to compete may have made investors jittery. He added that American may restrict the number of the cheapest fares it will roll out in 2016 so that some customers will buy higher-priced tickets.
Starting in 2014, Southwest and Spirit have ramped up service from two of American's hubs, Dallas and Chicago, at times exceeding demand and pushing down fares.
The budget phenomenon has mimicked competition in Europe, where low-cost airlines such as Ryanair Holdings PLC now carry the most passengers.
Next year American will sell a larger array of tickets that are priced according to certain restrictions, Kirby said.
The company waited to make the change until retiring the brand and bookings site of subsidiary US Airways, which it did on Oct. 17.
For the third quarter, American reported earnings jumped 80 percent to $1.7 billion, on lower fuel prices. The results topped analyst estimates.
American said passenger revenue, as a percentage of capacity, will fall between 5 and 7 percent in the current quarter from a year ago. The measure fell 6.8 percent third quarter.
The company said it expects pre-tax profit margin between 12 and 14 percent in the fourth quarter, up from 10.6 percent a year earlier.
For 2016, American plans to grow service 2 to 3 percent.
(Reporting by Jeffrey Dastin in New York; Editing by Leslie Adler)
The China central bank's decision to cut interest rates to try to mitigate the country's economic slowdown was the announcement heard around the world Friday. The change, which also lowered banks' reserve requirements, sparked optimism among investors who then abandoned United States Treasury bonds for stocks, the Wall Street Journal reported.
"It is a pretty good risk-on move," Federated Investors portfolio manager Donald Ellenberger told Reuters. "And ordinarily, in risk-on moves, risk-free Treasuries suffer."
Government bonds, which are debt securities largely regarded as low-risk and long-term investments, produce higher yields when prices decrease. The record slow growth of China's gross domestic product -- and the threat of international consequences -- has caused demand for them to rise in recent months. The 10-year yield hit a high of 2.5 percent in June.
But Friday, the People's Bank of China (PBOC) revealed it would lower its one-year lending rate from 4.6 percent to 4.35 percent and drop its one-year deposit rate from 1.75 percent to 1.5 percent, according to previous International Business Times reporting. The announcement was part of the most aggressive series of measures to relax policies in China in about six years. It was aimed at encouraging lending and supporting economic development. The changes were set to take effect Saturday.
Hours after the PBOC's decision Friday, Tradeweb recorded the 10-year yield for U.S. government bonds at 2.08 percent. The day before, it was 2.025 percent, according to the Journal. Essentially, the PBOC's announcement "reduces the probability of some of the more dire predictions" linked to China's economic crisis, BMO Capital Markets strategist Aaron Kohli told the newspaper.
In related news, the PBOC and other world banks have been selling off their U.S. government bonds recently in an effort to boost their currencies. Though this may sound bad, Charles Schwab analyst Kathy Jones wrote in a blog post last week, "large-scale 'dumping' of U.S. Treasuries is highly unlikely."
Commodities spiked Friday in the wake of a surprise move by the People’s Bank of China to cut benchmark interest rates by a quarter of a percentage point to 4.35 percent, effective Saturday. Brent crude rose 43 cents to $48.51 a barrel five minutes after the announcement, the Financial Times reported, while the prices of other commodities, like base metals, also rose – albeit briefly – after the news broke, leaving the possibility of long-term gains in question.
Copper and nickel reached one-week highs Friday in the wake of the cuts, Reuters reported Friday morning, but copper prices quickly backtracked. They rose 1.22 percent to trade at $5,319.50 a ton Friday on the London Metal Exchange, before backsliding one percent.
The price of nickel on the London Metal Exchange also rose 2.36 percent and aluminum 2.66 percent after China's announcement, and companies in the mining sector benefited as well. Swiss mining company Glencore’s stock jumped 9.3 percent, BHP Billiton, which mines copper, iron and other resources, grew 4 percent and Antofagasta, a Chile-based copper mining company, 3.2 percent, Bloomberg reported.
After its initial uptick in price, Brent crude fell to $47.80 per barrel by 11:10 a.m. EDT, Reuters reported. Analysts attributed Friday's short-lived surges to a strong U.S. dollar.
“The significant deterioration we have seen set in over the past half an hour after a rather sharp bounce is indicative of just how jittery the markets are," Edward Meir, an analyst at INTL FCStone, a commodities trading company, said, Reuters reported. "The surprising strength in the dollar should keep the rallies somewhat in check," he said.
China’s economic slowdown in the past several months has hurt commodities prices as the country aims to transition away from an industrial and manufacturing-based economy to a consumer-based one. It substantially reduced its imports of aluminum, zinc and copper the first half of 2015, although imports continue to vary by month. For instance, in September, China’s copper imports rose 22 percent over the previous year.
Amid the inevitably flux and uncertainty, many analysts have concluded that it’s far too soon to tell what could happen with metal prices and the commodities market in the long run, despite Friday's brief price spikes.
“The People’s Bank has delivered another jolt of stimulus,” analysts at Capital Economics, a macroeconomic research group, said, Fortune reported, but the analysts were “still waiting for clear evidence of an economic turnaround,” they said in a note to clients.
Although China’s surprise, middle-of-the-night move to cut benchmark interest and deposit rates Friday is yet another sign of weakness in the world’s second-largest economy, investors around the world are taking the news as a positive sign that Chinese central bankers are actively engaged in efforts meant to stimulate growth.
Markets in Europe and the U.S. rallied on the news. The FTSE index of European stocks climbed 1.1 percent on the day, and the S&P 500 erased the last of summer’s losses, bringing 2015 into the green again.
“This interest-rate cut is the latest card China’s government is playing in order to right its economic ship,” said Gregory Stoller, an expert on Chinese economics who is a senior lecturer at the Boston University Questrom School of Business.
The People’s Bank of China (PBOC) complements the rate cuts --- its sixth round in 11 months -- with measures easing bank reserve requirements.
Despite these repeated rounds of monetary-policy accommodation, strained Chinese businesses were still facing real interest rates on the rise, said Alessandro Theiss, a China economist at Oxford Economics. In its announcement, the PBOC said its moves were aimed “to create a favorable monetary and financial environment for economic structural adjustment.”
That means extending a helping hand to flagging industries. “The biggest downward pressures on growth are the downturn in real estate and the weakness in heavy industry,” Theiss said. “Most of the really highly indebted companies are in these sectors.”
Beijing’s official data show headwinds in the Chinese economy, with its growth in gross domestic product falling to a six-year low of 6.9 percent in the third quarter, compared with 7.3 percent in the same period in the previous year. And analysts point to evidence of a deeper funk. Chinese equity markets moved from correction to bear-market territory in the middle of this year. And the country’s producer price index fell to a historical low of -5.9 percent in September, signaling a steep decline in domestic demand.

China’s interest-rate cut came a day after European Central Bank President Mario Draghi opened the door for further monetary easing in the eurozone, citing continued economic unease and low growth.
The rate cut should appear on the radar screen of the U.S. Federal Reserve, whose chair, Janet Yellen, held onto expectations that the Fed’s rate-setting committee will opt to raise historically low benchmark interest rates by the end of the year. In the Fed’s September announcement that rates would remain near zero, Yellen cited falling demand from China as a potential economic hurdle in coming months.
For worried stateside investors, the prospect of cheaper Chinese credit could be welcome. “Internationally, the perception of these stimulative measures is generally positive,” Theiss said. “It shows that the Chinese authorities are aware of the weaknesses the economy is facing.”
But not everybody is sanguine about the move. Many analysts predict at least one more rate cut from China by the end of 2015, as growth continues to sag. “We’re still waiting for clear evidence of an economic turnaround,” analysts at Capital Economics wrote in a note to investors.
Others see evidence of China delaying the inevitable. Speculation in real estate followed by a rush into the stock market helped drive successive credit bubbles in China that have still not fully deflated. “We’re not close to the deleveraging,” Theiss said.
In a note Friday, economist David Levy took China’s rate cut as a sign of a coming global economic shakeup. He wrote, “China has been growing so long with huge overinvestment that it needs to slash investment so much that the other profit sources cannot make up the difference.”
Whether you're preparing for college or already in it, you know that higher education can break the bank. The average cost of one year of college at a public, in-state university cost more than $9,000 in 2014, and for private colleges it exceeded $31,000. But don't start selling your plasma just yet. There are thousands of scholarships linked to any topic you can imagine, and dozens of them have deadlines before the year is done. Below are 60 scholarships with applications due in October, November and December. Good luck!
20 scholarships with general requirements:
Unlimited Love Institute Scholarship -- $1,000 -- Oct. 30
Coca-Cola Scholars Program -- varies -- Oct. 31
Biannual MyProjectorLamps Scholarship -- $500 -- Oct. 31
No Essay Scholarship -- $2,000 -- Oct. 31
American Bullion Scholarship Program -- $500 -- Oct. 31
SaveOnEnergy.com® Education Scholarship -- $1,000 -- Nov. 8
Maryknoll Essay Contest -- varies -- Nov. 13
iMove College Moving Scholarship -- varies -- Nov. 15
Neil Burns Distracted Driver Awareness Scholarship -- $1,000 -- Nov. 15
Zumper Apartments Scholarship -- $1,000 -- Nov. 15
Bachus & Schanker, LLC Scholarship -- $2,000 -- Nov. 30
Get-Frontier.com Scholarship -- $1,000 -- Nov. 30
Lemberg Law Lemon Justice Scholarship -- $1,000 -- Nov. 30
DISHPromotions.com Scholarship -- $1,000 -- Nov. 30
Comcast Leaders and Achievers® Scholarship Program -- $1,000 -- Dec. 3
Stephen J. Brady Stop Hunger Scholarships -- $5,000 -- Dec. 5
Center for Alcohol Policy Essay Contest -- varies -- Dec. 5
Christopher Reeve Service Award -- $1,000 -- Dec. 15
AXA Achievement Scholarship -- $10,000 -- Dec. 15
Great Clips Cosmetology School Scholarships -- varies -- Dec. 31

20 scholarships that require creativity:
CARid Scholarship Program -- $1,000 -- Oct. 31
Voice of Democracy Scholarship Competition -- varies -- Nov. 1
Bluetooth Breakthrough Award -- $5,000 -- Nov. 2
I Am… Scholarship Slam -- $1,000 -- Nov. 6
TicketCity Annual College Scholarship Program -- $3,000 -- Nov. 11
Delphix Technology Scholarship for Women -- $5,000 -- Nov. 15
James Alan Cox Foundation for Student Photojournalists Scholarship -- $2,500 -- Nov. 15
Youth Noise Scholarship Program -- $1,000 -- Nov. 21
Fountain Magazine Scholarship -- varies -- Nov. 30
Design A Shirt Creative Excellence Scholarship -- $1,000 -- Nov. 30
DormBedding.com #FortOnFleek Challenge -- $1,000 -- Dec. 1
Doodle 4 Google -- $30,000 -- Dec. 7
Make It With Wool Competition -- varies  -- Dec. 31
CaptainU Scholarship -- $2,000 -- Dec. 31
Top Ten List Scholarship -- $1,500 -- Dec. 31
Zombie Apocalypse Scholarship -- $2,000 -- Oct. 31
Debt.com Scholarship For Aggressive Scholarship Applicants -- $500 -- Dec. 1
ThePennyHoarder’s $2,000 “Frugal Student” Scholarship -- $2,000 -- Dec. 31
Rolex Scholarship -- $25,000 -- Dec. 31
HeadsetPlus.com Annual College Scholarship -- $1,000 -- Dec. 31

20 scholarships for niche applicants:
Veterans United Foundation Scholarship -- $2,000 -- Oct. 31
Berrien Fragos Thorn Arts Scholarships for Migrant Farmworkers -- varies -- Nov. 1
HubShout Internet Marketing Scholarship -- $1,000 -- Nov. 1
AGC Education and Research Foundation -- $2,500 -- Nov. 2
Dairy Council of Arizona Scholarship -- $12,000 -- Nov. 9
Live Your Dream Awards -- varies -- Nov. 15
Floyd Mayweather Jr. Foundation Scholarship -- $1,000 -- Nov. 15
Institute of Industrial Engineers Scholarships -- varies -- Nov. 15
GEM Fellowship Program -- varies -- Nov. 15
American Copy Editors Society Scholarship -- varies -- Nov. 16
Goldman Sachs MBA Fellowship -- $25,000 -- Nov. 16
Best Hospitality Degrees Scholarship -- $1,500 -- Nov. 30
Science, Mathematics And Research for Transformation Scholarship -- varies -- Dec. 1
Walmart Associate Scholarship -- varies -- Dec. 2
“Business Plan” Scholarship For Students With Disabilities -- $1,000 -- Dec. 4
Foot Locker Scholar Athletes Program -- $20,000 -- Dec. 11
Burger King McLamore Scholarship -- $1,000 -- Dec. 15
Chick and Sophie Major Memorial Duck Calling Contest -- varies -- Nov. 27
United States Bowling Congress Earl Anthony Memorial Scholarship -- $5,000 -- Dec. 1
National Field Archery Association Foundation Scholarship -- varies -- Dec. 31
European stocks surged Friday afternoon local time following China's central bank cutting interest rates for the sixth time since last November. The news out of China further extended gains the European market had already taken on from the prospect this week of additional stimulus via the European Central Bank, Market Watch reported.
The Stoxx Europe 600, a stock index, shot up more than 2 percent on the day to around 378, eyeing its highest close since the beginning of the week. Prior to the afternoon boost sparked by China, investor sentiment had been buoyed by the European Central Bank's indication that it was willing to extend its bond-buying program. European Central Bank President Mario Draghi said the policy would need to be "re-examined" in December, indicating the quantitative easing program could continue past September 2016, CNBC reported.
The Chinese central bank said Friday it would lower its one-year lending rate from 4.6 percent to 4.35 percent and cut the one-year deposit rate from 1.75 percent to 1.5 percent. It also eased reserve requirements for banks. The rippling effects were felt in Europe, boosting confidence that China was committed to resolving its continued economic slowdown.
"The People’s Bank has delivered another jolt of stimulus," said Mark Williams, chief Asia economist at Capital Economics, in a note via Market Watch. "The key point is that we shouldn’t take today’s announcement as evidence that policy makers have grown more concerned about the economy. Instead, this is a controlled easing cycle that underlines how China’s policy makers, unlike many of their peers elsewhere, still have room for policy maneuver."
The People's Bank of China's last rate cut in August caused tumult in the international markets as it was combined with a 2 percent reduction in the value of the yuan, China's currency. But Friday brought early gains for U.S., Asian and European markets. Ahead of the markets closing, Germany's DAX was up 2.67 percent, France's CAC gained 2.28 percent, Spain's IBEX was up 1.25 percent and the United Kingdom's FTSE 100 index UKX was up 1.05 percent.
While some gained confidence from China's decision to cut interest rates, other analysts saw it as a sign that the country is concerned about a lack of growth.
“The Chinese decision indicates that the authorities are clearly worried about the slowdown in the pace of economic growth and have decide to engage in more pre-emptive action," said Sanjiv Shah, chief investment officer of Sun Global Investments, according to the Guardian.
Opponents of the Obama administration’s landmark climate change policy filed lawsuits Friday to stall and overturn the rule. The legal challenges from coal-dependent states and mining companies were widely expected, as these forces have repeatedly attempted to dismantle the Clean Power Plan in the past year.
A coalition of 24 states and Murray Energy Corp., the third-largest U.S. coal producer, filed separate lawsuits with the Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit. The litigants asked the court to strike down the rule and delay its implementation until the court cases are resolved, The Hill reported. The National Mining Association also filed for an immediate pause to the rule’s implementation.
“The Clean Power Plan is one of the most far-reaching energy regulations in this nation’s history,” West Virginia Attorney General Patrick Morrisey, a Republican who is leading the 24-state coalition, said in a Friday statement. “EPA claims to have sweeping power to enact such regulations ... but such legal authority simply does not exist.”
Under the rule, the Environmental Protection Agency will require states to slash carbon pollution from power plants to 32 percent below 2005 levels by 2030. The goal is to encourage states and utilities to invest in solar, wind and other lower-carbon energy supplies while reducing reliance on higher-polluting sources -- namely coal-fired power plants. The electricity sector accounts for nearly one-third of total U.S. greenhouse gas emissions, the EPA estimated.
This figure shows greenhouse gas emissions and sinks (negative values) by source in the United States from 1990 to 2013. Photo: U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
President Barack Obama proposed a draft version of the plan in June 2014 and unveiled the final version in August. West Virginia and Murray Energy led a similar coalition in two lawsuits against the Clean Power Plan, but a D.C. court deemed those efforts premature. The first suit was filed before the final rule was announced, and the second came in August, before the rule was published in the Federal Register. According to the Clean Air Act, lawsuits can only be filed within 60 days after a rule is published.
The latest round of challenges Friday came immediately after the Federal Register published the Clean Power Plan, which officially puts the rule into effect, though there are many years before compliance is required.
Opponents claimed the EPA wrongly interpreted the Clean Air Act in establishing limits on power-sector carbon emissions. Critics said the rule would sound the death knell for America’s struggling coal industry, which has seen a string of bankruptcies and widespread layoffs in recent months. Cheap natural gas and the sluggish Chinese economy are driving down demand for coal; the carbon regulations are expected to further reduce coal’s role in the U.S. energy mix.
The number of new and reactivated coal mines that began production in 2013 fell to the lowest level in at least the past 10 years, federal analysts reported in September. Photo: U.S. Energy Information Administration
The EPA and environmental groups said they are confident the Clean Power Plan can withstand the legal attacks. They insisted the federal government does have the legal authority to rein in power plant emissions, and they note the U.S. Supreme Court has historically ruled in the EPA’s favor on carbon-related regulations.
“It’s one thing to sue, and it’s another thing to win,” David Doniger, who directs the climate and clean air program at the Natural Resources Defense Council, said on a Thursday press call. “The Clean Power Plan rests on a strong legal foundation. Despite their rhetoric, the [plan’s] foes are unlikely to get a stay in the short run or to overturn the rule.”
States will have until 2022 to start complying with the rule, although many states are expected to start curbing emissions ahead of schedule.
Israel’s trade deficit hit 1.8 billion shekels, or about $462 million, in September, according to a report by the  Israeli Central Bureau of Statistics released this week. The trade deficit from January to September of this year was 2.7 billion shekels ($693 million) compared to a 32.2 billion shekel ($8.3 billion) deficit over the same period last year.
A recent surge in violence in Israel has raised concerns that the country’s economy could end up in a recession,  Reuters reported Monday. Tourism, which accounts for 7 percent of Israel’s economy, is always vulnerable to attacks in the region, and the industry is still recovering from the 2014 conflict in Gaza.
Imports to Israel totaled about $4.05 billion in September while exports totaled $3.6 billion, according to the Central Bureau of Statistics report. Raw materials made up 46 percent of imports, consumer goods made up 20 percent, machinery and equipment accounted for 12 percent and the last 22 percent included diamonds, fuels ships and aircraft.
The large majority of Israel’s exports (85 percent) included goods from manufacturing, mining and quarrying. Exports of diamonds constituted 14 percent of the total, and 1 percent was agriculture, forestry and fishing exports. Exports across the board decreased from last year, according to the report.
However, a  separate report by the Central Bureau of Statistics released Sunday showed that Israel’s economy is set to grow 2.5 percent in 2015. This would be slower than the 2.6 percent growth the country saw last year, which is largely due to the decline in exports. The country’s economy has seen some growth in private spending, but if violence continues that could be in jeopardy for the end of the year.
The Bank of Israel last month cut its 2015 growth estimate from 3.0 percent to 2.6 percent,  according to Reuters. The Finance Ministry also decreased its GDP forecast for this year to 2.6 percent from 2.9 percent. The country expects more growth in 2016.
This story was updated at 4 p.m. EDT.
U.S. stocks ended the week up on Friday after China’s surprise interest-rate cut added to optimism that central bankers are taking the proper steps to stimulate growth amid a slowdown of the world's second-largest economy. At the same time, U.S. markets responded to strong quarterly results from tech giants Microsoft, Amazon.com and Google-parent Alphabet. Friday's close came a day after the European Central Bank said it was prepared to extend an economic stimulus plan that began in March.
The earnings season that kicked off earlier this month began with low expectations due to an economic slowdown in China, a battered energy sector and a 10 percent correction in the markets in late August. But this week has given investors reasons to be more optimistic than they’ve been since China shocked global markets with a yuan devaluation on Aug. 11.
“There was downbeat sentiment going into the earnings season, so some of the good earnings results we’ve seen are based on lower expectations,” said Brad McMillan, chief investment officer for Commonwealth Financial Network. “But we’re seeing some genuine positive surprises, like in the tech sector yesterday and this morning with Procter & Gamble.”
China’s central bank cut rates and reduced the amount of money the country’s banks needed on reserve in a bid to revive economic growth, a move that lifted Asian and European stocks — sentiment that carried over to U.S. markets.The Dow Jones Industrial Average (INDEXDJX:.DJI) ended the day up 157.81 points, or 0.90 percent, to 17,647. The S&P 500 Index (INDEXSP:.INX) advanced 22.65 points, or 1.10 percent, to 2,075. The Nasdaq composite (INDEXNASDAQ:.IXIC) rose 111.81 points, or 2.27 percent, to 5,032.
Seven out of 10 S&P 500 sectors ended Friday up, led by strong performances in information technology stocks. Shares in Alphabet Inc. (NASDAQ:GOOG) and Microsoft Corporation (NASDAQ:MSFT) closed the day up 7.7 percent and 10.1 percent, respectively. Facebook Inc. (NASDAQ:FB) shares touched their all-time high of $102.85 before retreatign slightly by teh end of the day. Amazon.com Inc. (NASDAQ:AMZN) stock shot up 6.23 percent to $599.03 after reporting surprise profit for the second quarter in a row. Consumer staples, energy and utilities stocks dropped. 
Dow component Procter & Gamble Co. (NYSE:PG) reported better-than-expected quarterly profits Friday morning and ended the day up 2.91 percent to $77.03. The Ohio maker of Gillette razors and Tide detergent said net income rose nearly 31 percent to $2.6 billion, or 98 cents per share, for the July-September quarter despite lower-than-expected revenue due largely to a stronger dollar impacting sales earned in foreign currencies. Shares jumped on the news as investors embraced the company’s ongoing turnaround efforts to spin off brands and focus on its most successful products.
American Airlines Group Inc. (NASDAQ:AAL) said it beat Wall Street estimates with an 80 percent jump in net profit, to $1.7 billion due largely to the steep drop in fuel prices. Shares in the world’s largest carrier gained 2.18 percent to $609.90.
Royal Caribbean Cruises Ltd. (NYSE:RCL) also reported better-than-expected third-quarter profit on higher demand for its Caribbean and European cruises and increased revenue in on-board spending. The Miami-based cruise operator increased its full-year profit forecast, which lifted the company’s share price by 3.47 percent to $97.99 Friday. 
It was as recently as August that analysts were making doomsday predictions about Brazil’s economy, pointing to recent consecutive quarters of contractions, soaring unemployment and a plunging currency. So it was a surprise, at least to some, when it turned out that in the first 20 days of October foreign investors had spent $4.2 billion in the country’s stock market, as Bloomberg reported Friday, even as some have predicted that lower prices offered in Brazil’s lagging economy were precisely what could lure investors.
“Anyone buying a selective portfolio at current levels will make money,” Guilherme Ache, a partner at Squadra Investimentos, an investment firm based in Rio de Janeiro, told Bloomberg, even as he warned that investors would need to be savvy in selections. “There’s no bell that rings when you reach a turning point in a bear market,” he added.
Just five years ago, Brazil had been one of the darlings of the developing world, an emerging economy extolled for the rapid growth of its middle class and robust employment rates. But in 2013, hints began to emerge that Petrobras, Brazil’s state oil company, was struggling, as it reported mounting losses and debt. In 2014, reports that corrupt practices might have been taking place began to emerge. By January, the country and Petrobras were embroiled in a full-fledged scandal – Petrobras admitted to losing $2 billion in bribes – that implicated Brazilian President Dilma Rousseff.
By August, Brazil’s economy had posted two successive quarters of contraction. A recession was officially under way, not only fueled by the political crisis but also suffering from fallout from China’s recent economic downturn and the dropping prices of commodities that are vital to Brazil’s economy, including oil, sugar and coffee. The economy appeared headed into its longest recession in some 80 years.
Brazil, of All Places, Is Now a Hot Spot for Many Stock Pickers https://t.co/5cd09OiOuI via @denysegodoy pic.twitter.com/bvlqRDLJBn
&mdash; Emerging Markets (@BloombergEM) October 23, 2015

But as some analysts have pointed out, if Brazil’s economy could not sink much lower, investors might have incentive to buy in now, while prices are low.
“Get ready for a stock market rally in Brazil,” predicted the headline for an article published on MarketWatch in mid-September. “Bear market rallies can be a great way to make money,” the author of the article, Michael Brush, wrote, suggesting that investors “identify stocks or asset classes where sentiment has sunk to such an extreme low, things can’t get much worse.”
Many still are wary of entering Brazil’s markets, especially given the political instability – Rousseff faces more than two dozen petitions calling for her impeachment, for instance. But for those who see potential payoffs, now is a golden opportunity. “This is the best time to buy in years,” James Gulbrandsen, a partner at NCH Capital in Rio de Janeiro, told Bloomberg.
China’s economic slowdown has continued to reverberate across the globe, with Germany becoming its latest victim. German manufacturing slowed in October, giving that sector its least amount of growth in five months, Bloomberg reported Friday. The newest purchasing managers’ index, which shows the health of the manufacturing sector, fell to 51.6 from 52.3 in September.
“Today’s numbers signal a note of caution for German manufacturers,” said Oliver Kolodseike, an economist with Markit, the financial service group that released the numbers Friday. “Moreover, the combination of rising stocks-of-finished-goods levels and slower new-order growth suggests that companies may scale down their production in coming months.”
Chinese demand for new orders has fallen following the country’s currency devaluation in August, which triggered global market sell-offs. In addition to China, Russian demand for manufactured goods has also declined, with the Russian economy reeling from low oil prices and sanctions imposed by Western states on it following the annexation of Crimea from Ukraine in March 2014.
Job creation in manufacturing hit an eight-month low. However, the service sector hit a five-month high, then say it hit a 7-month high, helping the eurozone’s expansion in October, Markit said in its report.
“Looking ahead, the forward-looking indicators point to a risk of growth slowing in November,” the Markit release said. “Service-sector expectations of activity in the year ahead hit a 10-month low, while the manufacturing orders-to-inventory ratio dipped to its weakest for nine months.”
The European Central Bank has already warned that another stimulus may come in December as the slowdown has affected the union’s weaker economies as well.
The manufacturing slowdown comes at a moment of high political tensions in Germany and the EU as the 28-member union attempts to find a cohesive policy solution to the ongoing refugee crisis. Thousands of refugees fleeing wars and repressive states in the Middle East and North Africa have continued arriving in Europe daily for the past several months. German Chancellor Angela Merkel’s open-door migration policy has driven her approval rating to a four-year low.
For the first time in more than a decade, Argentines casting their vote for president Sunday will find one familiar name missing from their ballots. Sunday's election will close the curtain on the era of the Kirchners, the power couple that secured the presidency with landslide victories in the last three elections, first with the late President Néstor Kirchner and then two terms with his wife, current President Cristina Fernández de Kirchner, who is constitutionally barred from running again. With a new slate of candidates, the vote will come down to the numbers as the margin of victory will determine whether it could go to a runoff.
Clinching the win will be the easiest part, however. Whoever eventually ascends to the presidency will inherit what economists say are the consequences of 12 years of Kirchner policies: double-digit inflation, an overvalued currency, slumping exports and critically low foreign reserves, all of which threaten to send the country careening into financial chaos if left unaddressed.
The presidential front-runners are Daniel Scioli, a member of Kirchner’s center-left Justicialist party, who is currently leading the polls, and Mauricio Macri, a business-friendly challenger from the opposition alliance We Can Change and outgoing mayor of Buenos Aires. A third candidate, Sergio Massa, who was once allied with the president’s party but since defected to form his own, is also in the running at third place in the polls.
The winner will be tasked with pushing forward unpopular measures to put the ailing economy back on solid footing. That could include spending cuts and a painful currency devaluation that would depress wages, spelling tough times ahead for Argentina’s public.
An even bigger challenge will be negotiating the government’s decade-old debt impasse that has effectively blocked it from foreign capital markets, which it needs as its foreign reserves have shrunk to around $27 billion, only half of which is estimated to be readily accessible. The government has been mired in a protracted battle with a group of U.S.-based hedge funds over a share of its remaining sovereign debt, which Argentina defaulted on in 2001. The hedge funds have refused to accept a restructured debt, and the ensuing legal fight has prevented Argentina from being able to borrow funds without taking on high interest rates.
Argentine President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner casts her vote in primary elections at a polling station in Rio Gallegos, Aug. 9, 2015.  Photo: Argentine Presidency/Handout via Reuters
Analysts say all these measures are necessary to bring Argentina back from the brink as heavy state interventionism and high public spending, hallmarks of Kirchner’s economic policies, have set the country on an unsustainable path. The budget deficit now makes up around 7 percent of Argentina’s GDP, and inflation has climbed to around 25 percent, according to some independent calculations, as the government implemented tight currency exchange controls to prevent capital flight, which resulted in a thriving black market for foreign currency.
Economic slowdowns in Brazil and China, Argentina’s top two export destinations, have only compounded the pain. Dwindling revenues have left the country on track for  just 0.4 percent growth for 2015, with a recession predicted for next year, according to recent projections by the International Monetary Fund.
Kirchner has drawn public support for expanding social programs and benefits for low-income Argentines. But critics say she avoided making hard choices during her presidency, such as lifting price ceilings and cutting generous energy subsidies or benefits for public-sector workers, all of which might have helped stem current financial problems but would have drawn backlash from supporters.
Scioli belongs to Kirchner’s party, but his economic advisers have advocated for more business-friendly policies, including a gradual easing of currency controls to rein in inflation, said Ignacio Labaqui, an Argentina-based senior analyst at international consulting firm Global Medley Advisors. But there’s still heavy uncertainty about how much change Scioli would bring about once in office. “[Investors] don’t know if he will move away from current policies, or do it willingly,” he said.
In public, Scioli has remained vague on his economic approach in a bid to court both the government’s supporters, who want reassurance that he won’t reduce social benefits, and the business community, which seeks a more market-friendly alternative to Kirchner’s policies.
Opposition presidential candidate and Buenos Aires Mayor Mauricio Macri speaks at a campaign event, Aug. 9, 2015.  Photo: Reuters/Marcos Brindicci
“Effectively, the message Scioli has been sending to Cristina Fernández’s supporters is: ‘I’m not going to change much,’ and the message to centrists is, ‘Don’t worry, once I get in office I’m going to be my own man,’” said Mark P. Jones, an Argentina expert and political science fellow at the Baker Institute for Public Policy think tank at Rice University in Texas. “The real dilemma for observers is: Which Daniel Scioli is going to be president?”
Macri, on the other hand, has been a favorite of international investors, who anticipate he would be more agreeable than Scioli on a deal with the debt holdouts, and pursue a faster, more aggressive approach in weaning Argentina off the currency controls. But he would face a legislature dominated by opposing parties, which have prompted criticisms that a Macri presidency would be plagued by gridlock. 
Macri has been trailing Scioli by around 10 percentage points, but Sunday’s numbers will make all the difference in who emerges triumphant. By Argentine law, a presidential candidate has to get 45 percent of the vote in the first round to win outright, or else get at least 40 percent of the vote with a 10-point lead over the runner-up. If not, the vote will go to a runoff, which would be in late November.
Scioli is not expected to get the needed 45 percent for a sweeping win, and his lead over Macri is hovering around the minimum he needs. If he can’t pull up enough support in the first round of elections, Macri is expected to form an alliance with the third-place candidate, Massa, to challenge Scioli in the runoff, and that partnership could tip the scale back in Macri’s favor.
In the meantime, Kirchner, who will be eligible to run for the presidency again in 2019, is leaving office with her popularity largely intact. She still enjoys strong support from rural and working-class Argentines who have seen their wages and standards of living rise during her presidency. Her approval rating stood at around 38 percent in August, which is an “unprecedented” high compared to previous outgoing presidents, Jones said.
“All the things [she] has been doing have been digging a deeper and deeper hole for Argentines to climb out of,” he said. “But she’s not the one that will have to make Argentina take its medicine. That will be her successor.”
China's central bank said Friday it is cutting interest rates for the sixth time since last November in a bid to slow the contraction of its economy and maintain stable credit growth. In addition, the People's Bank of China (PBOC) is cutting its one-year lending rate from 4.6 percent to 4.35 percent and lowering the one-year deposit rate from 1.75 percent to 1.5 percent, the Wall Street Journal reported.
Reuters reported that the past year has seen the most aggressive series of actions loosening policies in China since the 2008 international economic crisis. All measures, including eliminating a cap on deposit rates, are to take effect Saturday and reflect the government's determination to lower the cost to businesses of borrowing and make it easier for banks to lend.
"Chinese officials are stepping on the gas," Frederic Neumann, co-head of Asia Economics Research at HSBC Holdings PLC, told Bloomberg. "The joint move on interest rates and the reserve-requirement ratio shows that Beijing is determined to get the car out of the mud and get things moving again."
The PBOC will reduce commercial banks' so-called reserve requirement ratio by 0.5 percent percentage points. The upshot for big banks will be a reserve ratio of 17.5 percent. That ratio, which has been cut four times so far this year, is the minimum fraction of customer deposits and notes that must be held as reserves. Lowering that ratio frees up bank reserves for lending.
Friday was the sixth time in the past year that the Bank of China has lowered its rates, Reuters reported.
The moves, which are similar to measures being taken by the European Central Bank, are part of the PBOC's efforts to raise a troublingly low inflation rate and keep growth in the world's second-biggest economy from slowing. China said Monday that the increase in its gross domestic product for the three months ended last month fell to 6.9 percent -- the weakest such expansion in six years.
"At present, the domestic and international situation is still complex," the PBOC wrote in Chinese on its website, noting that downward pressure on China's economic growth remained. It noted a "need to continue the flexible use of monetary policy tools to strengthen preset tuning, to create a favorable monetary and financial environment for economic structural adjustment and stable and healthy economic development."
European and Asian stocks rallied higher Friday as the European Central Bank (ECB) said it would consider more stimulus to revive Europe’s flagging economy. 
Sentiment in major world markets improved after ECB Chief Mario Draghi's comments Thursday that the central bank was ready to adjust "the size, composition and duration" of its quantitative easing program, reports said.
European stocks carried their forward momentum for the second day on the ECB news. France's CAC 40 rose 2.8 percent and Germany's DAX gained 3 percent. Britain's FTSE 100 climbed 1.6 percent. The pan-European STOXX 600 was up 2.31 percent.
German manufacturing grew the least in five months in October, with companies citing lower demand in Russia and China, according to Bloomberg. The latest Purchasing Managers’ Index from Markit Economics showed a factory index fell to 51.6 from 52.3 in September.
U.S. stock futures were up after tech majors Amazon Inc., Alphabet Inc. (Google) and Microsoft Corp. posted strong quarterly results on Thursday. Futures on the S&P 500 and Dow Jones were trading up at about 0.9 percent. The tech-heavy Nasdaq index was trading higher at 1.5 percent.
South Korea’s Kospi grew 0.9 percent after preliminary estimates showed that South Korea's economy had grown at its fastest clip in five years, with GDP up 1.2 percent in the third quarter.
Asian stocks closed sharply higher Friday, with shares in Japan leading the region. The Nikkei 225 rose 2.11 percent while Hong Kong's Hang Seng index was up 1.34 percent and China's Shanghai Composite closed 1.3 percent higher. India’s benchmark S&P BSE Sensex was also up 0.67 percent.
Oil services company Halliburton Co.’s proposed takeover of Baker Hughes Inc. was further delayed Friday as Australia’s competition regulator Australian Competition & Consumer Commission (ACCC) raised concerns that the deal would reduce the number of suppliers in the oilfield goods and services in Australia.
Postponing its decision until Dec. 17, the ACCC asked for further comments from market participants, another setback for a deal that is already facing antitrust scrutiny in the United States. In August, the two companies had agreed with the U.S. Department of Justice to extend its review of the deal until Dec. 15.
Terming Halliburton and Baker Hughes as the “second and third largest oilfield services providers, both globally and in Australia,” ACCC Chairman Rod Sims said in a statement Friday that the proposed merger would "facilitate coordinated behavior in the market.”
The deal, worth about $35 billion, is currently facing regulatory scrutiny in several countries due to overlapping businesses in the U.S., Asia and Europe.
Regulatory minefield
Halliburton proposed to buy out smaller rival Baker Hughes in November 2014, in a deal designed to make it a stronger competitor to industry leader Schlumberger Ltd. The company is counting on the purchase to cut costs as lower oil prices have forced oil companies to cut down on exploration and development spending.
However, due to the overlapping nature of the two companies' businesses, global regulatory bodies have been less than enthusiastic in their scrutiny of the deal.
To appease competition watchdogs world over, Halliburton said last year it would shed as much as $7.5 billion in annual revenue. The Houston-based company is selling off its drilling parts business, along with additional businesses, as it attempts to close the deal by end of 2015 but concedes that the deadline may be extended into 2016. Baker Hughes is also set to divest units in Australia, Brazil, the Gulf of Mexico, Norway and the U.K.
Merger experts say the wide spread of assets, businesses and operations of the two oil services leaders means the market remains less confident the deal will be completed this year. "[The agreement] does not remove any regulatory risk as the approval has still not yet been received," Roy Behren, portfolio manager at Westchester Capital Management, told Reuters. 
Twitter Inc. Chief Executive Jack Dorsey is giving a third of his stock in the company, about 1 percent, to the employee equity pool, Dorsey announced on his Twitter account late Thursday. 
The move, which is worth $197 million as of July 28, according to Reuters, will help "reinvest directly in our people," he said. Dorsey, who owns about 3.2 percent stake in the social media company, was named its permanent CEO earlier this month.
Dorsey’s shares will go into a staff pool from which employees are rewarded depending on performance and promotions, the Financial Times reported.
“As for me: I’d rather have a smaller part of something big than a bigger part of something small. I’m confident we can make Twitter big!” said the Twitter co-founder, who is also the CEO and stakeholder of payments services start-up Square Inc.
Twitter has seen big changes after a recent round of layoffs and a spate of high-level exits over the past several months. The unusual move comes as Dorsey works to boost morale and transform the company, according to reports.
Former Microsoft Corp. CEO Steve Ballmer said he owns a 4 percent stake in Twitter, making him the company's third-biggest individual shareholder, according to Reuters.
Twitter had appointed Dorsey as interim chief executive in July. The previous CEO Dick Costello stepped down over investor concerns regarding Twitter’s slow user growth.
(Reuters) - McDonald's Corp. shares hit an all-time high on Thursday after Chief Executive Steve Easterbrook said a rebound in quarterly restaurant sales showed that his turnaround plan is starting to work.
Global sales at established restaurants were up a much better-than-expected 4 percent in the third quarter, ending six straight quarters of flat or falling results. And, Easterbrook said, the trend would continue in the current quarter.
Shares of the world's biggest restaurant chain by sales jumped more than 8 percent to a record $110.88 in early trading as a renewed focus on value and service helped business around the world.
"The progress we have made in a short amount of time gives me confidence we're making the right moves to turn around our business and reposition McDonald's as a modern, progressive burger company," Easterbrook said on a conference call with analysts and investors.
The United States, McDonald's No. 1 market for profit, reported a surprise 0.9 percent increase in sales at restaurants open at least 13 months. McDonald's said a new Premium Buttermilk Crispy Chicken Deluxe sandwich and its decision to swap butter for margarine on its Egg McMuffins helped the division break a two-year streak of quarterly sales declines.
China's same-restaurant sales, which had plummeted after a food safety scandal in July 2014, were up a whopping 26.8 percent for the quarter, helped by a focus on value and breakfast.
Australia, the United Kingdom and Canada also contributed to the quarterly rise in sales at restaurants open at least 13 months, after McDonald's tweaked menus, improved service and refined its offering of inexpensive food.
Easterbrook, now eight months into his tenure as CEO, has announced plans to speed up service, simplify menus and boost food quality.
In the United States, he rolled out all-day breakfast, began switching to chicken from birds raised without important antibiotics and raised wages for workers in restaurants run by the corporation.
On Thursday, Easterbrook said winning back customers remains a top priority in the United States, where competition is fierce and speed is key.
All-day breakfast, launched Oct. 6, is part of that effort.
While that move appears to have boosted traffic, some domestic franchisees complain that all-day breakfast and the company's plans to customize sandwiches is complicating operations and slowing service.
Easterbrook said restaurant operators have embraced all-day breakfast, and that an early read suggests it is "an incremental profitable business" wooing new and existing customers.
On the other hand, McDonald's said its decision to raise wages and improve benefits for 90,000 workers in U.S. company-operated restaurants took a bite out of operating income.
Third-quarter net income was up 23 percent to $1.31 billion, or $1.40 per share. Revenue fell 5 percent to $6.62 billion.
Chief Financial Officer Kevin Ozan said the strong U.S. dollar would ding fourth-quarter earnings per share by 8 to 10 cents. McDonald's gets about one-third of revenue and more than half of its operating income from outside the United States.
At midday, McDonald's shares were up 7.5 percent to $110.20.
By Lisa Twaronite
TOKYO (Reuters) -- Asia extended a global stocks rally on Friday after the European Central Bank signaled its readiness to inject more stimulus, helping the dollar scale a fresh two-month peak against the euro.
MSCI's broadest index of Asia-Pacific shares outside Japan was up 0.6 percent, on track for a modest weekly loss of about 0.1 percent.
Japan's Nikkei stock index was up 2.3 percent, poised to gain more than 3 percent for the week.
After the ECB held policy steady at its meeting on Thursday as widely expected, central bank chief Mario Draghi told a news conference that ECB policymakers were "open to the full menu of monetary policy" to stoke the euro zone economy as needed.
"This raises further questions about the policy outlook for the Federal Reserve and Bank of Japan, both of which have meetings next week," said Sean Callow, senior strategist at Westpac in Sydney, who called it "surprising" that markets were still pricing in a 30 percent chance that the Fed will hike by December.
"How likely is it that the Fed will be optimistic enough about the emerging market outlook that worried them in September to raise rates in December, less than 2 weeks after the ECB seems set to expand QE, blaming emerging market weakness?" Callow wrote in a note to clients on Friday.
The Fed will meet on Tuesday and Wednesday next week, after its policymakers opted to hold interest rates steady last month, amid concerns that a slowing global economy, particularly in China, could pose risks to the U.S. economic outlook.
The euro continued to slip after marking its largest one-day percentage drop against the dollar in nine months on Thursday.
The common currency was down 0.3 percent at $1.1076 after falling to a two-month nadir of $1.1072.
The euro's plunge helped lift the dollar index to a one-month high. It was last at 96.543, up about 0.2 percent on the day and more than 2 percent for the week, after it rose as high as 96.579 in early Asian trade.
Against the yen, the dollar added about 0.2 percent to 120.92, after touching a one-month high of 120.99 yen earlier.
Crude oil prices edged up, taking heart from the improved risk sentiment but still pressured by concern about high U.S. crude inventories and the stronger dollar.
Brent added 0.4 percent to $48.28 a barrel, but was on track for a weekly loss of more than 4 percent. U.S. crude added about 0.1 percent to $45.44 but was down nearly 4 percent for the week.
The stronger greenback also weighed on spot gold prices. Gold was slightly lower at $1,165.36 an ounce after touching a nine-day low overnight, and was down nearly 1 percent for the week.
(Editing by Shri Navaratnam)
By Lucia Mutikani
WASHINGTON (Reuters) -- U.S. home resales rebounded strongly in September and new applications for unemployment benefits hovered around 42-year lows last week, pointing at solid domestic fundamentals even as the global economy falters.
Thursday's upbeat housing and labor market reports could keep the door open to an interest rate hike from the Federal Reserve by the end of the year.
"The market has been a little bit quick to price out a December Fed rate hike. What you are seeing in the data is that the domestic picture looks strong and I think that's what the Fed is going to be looking at closely," said Thomas Costerg, a U.S. economist at Standard Chartered Bank in New York.
The National Association of Realtors said existing home sales increased 4.7 percent to an annual rate of 5.55 million units last month, almost erasing August's decline.
A firming housing market is boosting household wealth, driving a robust pace of consumer spending. In turn, strong domestic demand is helping to cushion the blow on the economy from softening global growth, a strong dollar and weak capital spending in the energy sector.
Growth has also been squeezed by efforts by businesses to reduce an inventory bulge, leaving gross domestic product growth estimates for the third quarter running below a 1.5 percent annualized rate. The economy grew at a 3.9 percent rate in the second quarter.
Housing, however, remains constrained by a dearth of properties available for sale. But rising house prices could encourage homeowners to put their houses on the market.
The median price for a previously owned home rose 6.1 percent in September from a year ago. Realtors and economists say insufficient equity has contributed to the tight housing inventories.
The stock of houses on the market fell 2.6 percent in September from August. At September's sales pace, it would take 4.8 months to clear houses from the market, down from 5.1 months in August. A six-months supply is viewed as a healthy balance between supply and demand.
The housing index fell 0.43 percent, underperforming a broadly firmer stock market. Shares in D.R. Horton, the largest U.S. homebuilder, declined 1.59 percent. Lennar Corp slipped 0.90 percent.
The dollar rallied against the euro on the data and dovish comments from the European Central Bank. Prices for longer-dated U.S. government bonds fell.
FIRMING JOBS MARKET
In a separate report, the Labor Department said initial claims for state jobless benefits rose 3,000 to a seasonally adjusted 259,000 for the week ended Oct. 17.
Still, they remained not too far from levels last seen in late 1973 and it was the 33rd straight week that claims were below the 300,000 threshold, which is normally associated with a firming jobs market.
At current levels, there is not much scope for claims to fall further and the very low level of layoffs suggests the labor market remains in good shape, despite a recent abrupt slowdown in job growth.
"These data signal that companies remain extremely unwilling to let go of labor and that the number of short-term unemployed remains very low," said John Ryding, chief economist at RDQ Economics in New York. 
The four-week moving average of claims, considered a better measure of labor market trends as it strips out week-to-week volatility, slipped 2,000 to 263,250 last week, the lowest level since December 1973.
The claims report covered the period during which the government surveyed employers for the payrolls portion of October's unemployment report. The four-week moving average of claims fell 9,250 between the September and October survey periods. That suggested a pick-up in job gains this month.
Nonfarm payroll gains in August and September averaged 139,000, the weakest two-month rise since January last year. The claims report showed the number of people still receiving benefits after an initial week of aid rose 6,000 to 2.17 million in the week ended Oct. 10.
The four-week moving average of continuing claims was the lowest since late 2000, suggesting a further decline in the unemployment rate from 5.1 percent in September.
"With August and September being notorious for initially under-reporting job gains, today's data add to the case that employment growth will pick up in October and the unemployment rate will continue to grind lower," said Ryding.
(Reporting By Lucia Mutikani; Editing by Andrea Ricci)
By Jeffrey Dastin
NEW YORK (Reuters) -- United Airlines on Thursday tried to dismiss concerns that executive shake-ups have left an amateur team running its business, promising better service for travelers and moderate expansion in 2016 for investors worried about weak demand.
Shares of parent United Continental Holdings Inc rose more than 2 percent after it forecast a pre-tax profit margin of up to 11.5 percent in the fourth quarter, compared with 5 percent a year earlier. The forecast surprised analysts who expected higher costs would keep margins lower.
The forecast follows two rocky months at United. Its CEO of five years Jeff Smisek resigned in September after a probe into the airline's relationship with the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey. A week ago, his successor Oscar Munoz suffered a heart attack, and it remains unclear if Munoz will return.
United's general counsel Brett Hart now serves as acting CEO.
"At its core, this is a team that has been here through the first quarter, which resulted in record results; the second quarter, which resulted in record results; and the third quarter which resulted in record results," Hart told investors on a call to discuss earnings.
This week, S&P Capital IQ cut its rating on the company's stock to "Buy" from "Strong Buy." It cited Hart's "limited experience in finance, operations or customer service, the areas that (United) is most in need of improving."
Hart said his agenda does not differ "at all" from the one set by Munoz, who met with workers to rebuild morale after years of strained labor relations.
He said United will announce changes in upcoming weeks to service on board the second-largest U.S. airline by capacity.
For the just-ended third quarter, United reported adjusted profit of $1.7 billion, up 58 percent from a year earlier thanks to lower fuel costs.
United forecast unit revenue will decline between 4 and 6 percent in the fourth quarter, in line with analysts' expectations. Rival Delta Air Lines Inc expects a drop in the same measure between 2.5 and 4.5 percent.
A strong U.S. dollar has dented sales to foreign travelers, and the tumbling price of oil has reduced revenue from energy clients by 35 percent for United, which has a Houston hub.
United said capacity will rise between 1.5 and 2.5 percent in 2016, more than 2015's expansion. This includes a new route to China, where United sees demand and competition growing.
(Reporting by Jeffrey Dastin in New York; Editing by Jeffrey Benkoe, W Simon and Marguerita Choy)
By David Ingram
NEW YORK (Reuters) -- Manhattan's top federal prosecutor abandoned a high-profile insider trading case against Michael Steinberg, formerly a top portfolio manager at SAC Capital Advisors, and six others on Thursday, saying the case was no longer consistent with the law.
U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara in a statement said his decision was based on a December ruling from a federal appeals court that more narrowly defined what constitutes insider trading. The U.S. Supreme Court this month declined to review that decision.
Steinberg had been sentenced to 3-1/2 years in prison after his 2013 conviction at trial, and his defense lawyer welcomed the decision to drop charges.
"Michael Steinberg did not commit any crime and is an innocent man. We hope that his vindication will receive as much attention as his wrongful prosecution," Barry Berke, his lawyer, said in a statement.
Last year, the 2nd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals curtailed prosecutors' ability to pursue insider-trading cases.
The appeals court threw out the 2012 convictions of hedge fund managers Todd Newman and Anthony Chiasson, who like Steinberg were convicted for trading on inside information about Dell Inc and Nvidia Corp, saying the government had over-reached.
"These prosecutions were all undertaken in good faith reliance on what this office and others, including able defense counsel for all those who pled guilty, understood to be the well-settled law before Newman," Bharara said.
SAC Capital last year rebranded itself Point72 Asset Management as it shifted toward being a family office managing the fortune of SAC founder Steven A. Cohen. Prosecutors never charged Cohen with a crime.
Bharara also said it "would not be in the interests of justice" to insist on maintaining the convictions of six cooperating witnesses, even though they pleaded guilty as part of the same alleged scheme.
The six cooperators were Spyridon Adondakis, Sandeep Goyal, Jon Horvath, Danny Kuo, Hyung Lim and Jesse Tortora.
Kuo's lawyer Roland Riopelle said Bharara's office "chose to do the right thing, even if doing so was not the politically easy thing to do. With this matter behind him, Mr. Kuo looks forward to getting on with the rest of his life."
(Reporting by David Ingram; Additional reporting by Nate Raymond; Editing by Meredith Mazzilli)
Amazon.com Inc (AMZN) reported third-quarter earnings Thursday with $25.4 billion in revenue, up by 23 percent year-over-year with $0.17 per share. That milestone sent shares up past $620 in after-hours trading.
The e-commerce giant credited the growth to its Prime services, declining to breakdown numbers. Amazon has been crushing analysts' expectations, beating estimates in three of the last four quarters. It's especially notable for the company given that its third quarter has traditionally been sour.
Amazon CEO and founder Jeff Bezos touted his company's new Fire tablet and Fire TV system. “For the first time, we’re recommending you bring home a six-pack for the whole family,” Bezos said in a statement. “At a price of $50 for one or $250 for a six-pack, Fire sets a new bar for what customers should expect from a low-cost tablet."
Analysts were expecting $24.9 billion in revenue, up by 21 percent year-over-year, and with losses per share at $0.12, according to Thomson Reuters. Most notably, Amazon turned a profit, earning 19 cents per share while expectations had pegged a loss of 14 cents. Last quarter, revenue was boasted by Amazon Web Services, the company's cloud storage and enterprise services unit, and more Amazon Prime services. 
Amazon Web Services continued to impress. Bank of America Merrill Lynch predicted $2.08 billion in revenue for that division, up by 78 percent from the third-quarter of 2014.
Igniting Fire 
Amazon made several moves to drive revenue. In July, it held its first Prime Day that offered deals for all Prime subscribers.
Prime Day had helped boost Amazon's Fire product sales. Prime subscribers ordered a reported "tens of thousands" of Fire TV Sticks in one hour, which positioned it as the fastest deal of an Amazon-exclusive device ever.
"This is one more step in our mission to bring customers premium products at non-premium prices. Fire is the #1 best-selling product on Amazon.com since launch, and based on the strength of the customer response, we are building millions more than we’d already planned," Bezos said in a statement. 
The e-commerce industry is expected to grow to $1.67 trillion in 2015, up by 20.9 percent, eMarketer estimates.
”Unlike eBay, Amazon has quite a loyal customer base. They have grown their mobile user base to over 118 million, though the service is still mainly used online via PCs," Hannu Verkasalo, CEO of Verto Analytics, wrote in a research note. 
Blowing Up Prime
Amazon has invested into other initiatives, such as original content and mobile-driven features that will be available exclusively to Prime subscribers. The company is releasing six pilot children shows, including “If You Give a Mouse a Cookie,” in November.
Prime Now, a one-day delivery service accessible via a mobile app, has expanded from a test market in New York City to adding eight cities over the last quarter to a total of 17 locations. 
"These fast options add us up to consideration in a couple items that a customer might be interested in purchasing," said Phil Hardin, Amazon's director of investor relations. "We continue to work on the network around the world." 
Other Prime benefits have been tested exclusively in international market. This quarter, Amazon launched "Amazon Pantry," a market for daily essentials delivered for a flat-rate fee. Amazon also expanded Prime Music to UK customers. 

 
AT&T Inc. (NYSE:T) on Thursday unveiled lower-than-expected third-quarter revenue of $39.1 billion. But the revenue shortfall may be due to accounting changes that occurred in conjunction with its acquisition of DirecTV.
AT&T Inc. posted earnings of $3 billion profit on $39.1 billion in revenue, falling short of analyst estimates of $4.1 billion in profit on $40.7 billion in revenue. This compares to earnings of $3 billion in profit and $33 billion in revenue during the same period last year. Adjusted earnings per share came in at 74 cents, up 14 percent from 65 cents in the same period last year.
“We now have integrated solutions that are unlike any competitor in the market,” Randall Stephenson, AT&T chairman and CEO, said in a press statement. “With our national wireless and video capabilities, as well as our extensive broadband network, we now have assets that make us a unique competitor and the first scaled, fully-integrated U.S. service provider.”
AT&T warned of the revenue miss on Wednesday, due to analysts not properly factoring in the company’s acquisition of DirecTV in July. "It is clear many revenue estimates for DirecTV include the full month of July,” AT&T spokesman Brad Burns told Reuters. “Under [generally accepted accounting principles] we are only allowed to include revenue beginning July 25.”
AT&T further clarified the effect of DirecTV's acquisition during its conference call. “Consolidated revenues grew to $39.1 billion," said CFO John Stephens. "That's up nearly 19 percent year-over-year mostly due to our acquisition of DirecTV. But we grew revenues even if you exclude DirecTV.  And again, this number does not include the first 24 days of DirecTV revenue as we are reporting under GAAP accounting. If you add those revenues to our GAAP number, consolidated revenues for the quarter would have been more than $41.2 billion.”
On the wireless side of its business, AT&T saw subscribers rise by 2.5 million users, bringing its total wireless subscriber base to 126.4 million subscribers. Smartphone equipment revenue grew 11 percent to $3.2 billion in part due to its shift away from two-year subsidized contracts to its AT&T Next equipment installment plans, which allows the carrier to report higher device revenue.
AT&T’s U-Verse broadband business saw subscribers slightly fall to 14.3 million users, down from 14.5 million users during the same period last year.
AT&T in September said it intended to change the methodology on how DirecTV counts commercial accounts, which brought down its subscriber base by 918,600, according to filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. However, the acquisition of the satellite company tacked on an additional 19.6 million subscribers, bringing AT&T video user base to 25.4 million users.
Valeant Pharmaceuticals International Inc. (VRX) attempted to calm nerves after a spate of critical reports shaved nearly 30 percent off the company’s stock price in two days. In response to a sensational report from short seller Citron Research that helped spark the free fall, Valeant announced a special call with analysts on Monday to address allegations of fraud.
The Canadian pharmaceutical giant has faced scrutiny since chief executive Michael Pearson informed shareholders Monday about the company’s previously undisclosed financial relationship with Philidor Rx, a publicity-shy specialty pharmacy that distributes drugs and bills clients for Valeant.
Valeant folds Philidor’s financials into its own, Pearson told analysts, and in late 2014 acquired a then-undisclosed option to acquire Philidor.
Investors weren’t satisfied. Markets have grown suspicious over Valeant’s reliance on specialty pharmacies like Philidor, which maintain exclusive relationships with drug manufacturers hoping to sidestep retail pharmacies and ship directly to customers. The use of specialty pharmacies has led Citron and others to question whether sales figures were inflated.
Last week it was revealed that Valeant was under federal investigation over its drug distribution policy and patient assistance programs, which cover patients’ co-pays in order to increase sales.
Despite the disclosures by the company, investors have grown only more confused by the details of tangled relationships between Valeant, Philidor and what Valeant calls “pharmacies in the Philidor pharmacy network.”
A lengthy investigation by the Southern Investigative Reporting Foundation published Monday revealed that Valeant had been sued by one member of that network, R&O Pharmacy. R&O had contested an invoice from Valeant that claimed the pharmacy owed it nearly $70 million. R&O denied that it ever had a direct relationship with Valeant.
As it turns out, it was Philidor that stood between Valeant and the small pharmacy. Philidor said it provided Web and call services for R&O, and it maintains an option to acquire the company. As multiple reports have documented, the two shared infrastructure and boards of directors.
But why Valeant and R&O are at odds over $70 million remains a mystery. All but one analyst maintained their ratings of the company, rejecting the most explosive -- and unproven -- insinuations that Valeant used specialty pharmacies in order to book fake revenue. 
Andrew Left, author of the scathing Citron report, stood by his criticisms of Valeant’s opaque business practices Thursday. Appearing on Bloomberg Live, Left called into question Valeant’s business model, which until recently relied on big acquisitions and controversial price hikes. Left said he was “more confused” Thursday than the day before.
“Look at what the market is telling you. That's Wall Street saying, ‘Hey, we don't trust your answer,’ ” Left said, referring to Valeant’s precipitous fall in price.
In a Wednesday statement, Valeant said, “Citron's false and misleading statements about Valeant appear to be an attempt to manipulate the market in an effort to drive down Valeant's stock price.”
Valeant’s champions have also gone on the defensive. Hedge fund star Bill Ackman doubled down on his support for Valeant, scooping up another 2 million shares Wednesday. Still, Valeant was down 8.5 percent Thursday afternoon.
For millions of consumers, the Apple iPhone 6 is synonymous with convenience and comfort. Life at a Chinese factory that churns out the smartphone units is an entirely different matter.
Workers at a major Apple supplier in Shanghai often toil in excess of the tech giant’s self-imposed 60-hour limit per week, putting in 12-hour shifts six days a week. They earn the Chinese minimum of less than $2 an hour before overtime and share crowded, lugubrious dormitories -- spaces where mold thrives, working toilets are rare and bedbugs common. Relying on research from an undercover worker, the findings were released Thursday in a report from China Labor Watch, a nonprofit in New York City, and Future in Our Hands, a Norwegian environmental group.
Apple did not respond to a request for comment.
The research cited a number of other unsafe and apparently illegal labor practices at the Shanghai factory, which is operated by the Taiwanese electronics company Pegatron.
According to the report, the undercover worker was never informed of emergency exits and never participated in an emergency drill. Pegatron employees are forced to sign forms that certify they’ve undergone at least 20 hours of pre-job safety training -- Chinese law requires 24 hours -- but the undercover investigator received only eight hours. Meanwhile, workers are informed that iPhone 6s production involves a number of toxic chemicals -- including cadmium, mercury and arsenic -- but they are not told when and where the substances are present in the production process or how they should protect themselves.
Chinese law mandates employers contribute to health insurance, but factory workers cannot verify Pegatron pays its share into the system, according to the report. The company does not provide mandatory contributions to workers’ housing funds. Researchers also said the long workweeks violate the nation’s overtime laws, which prohibit no more than 36 hours of overtime a month. Even Apple’s self-imposed limit of 60 hours a week, which the report says is regularly ignored, equates to about 85 hours of overtime a month -- well above the legal maximum.  
China Labor Watch published a study that documented many of the same problems at the factory in 2013. Many of the issues identified two years ago, it said, “have not seen meaningful change.”
Pegatron assembles about a quarter of iPhones, according to Nomura Holdings. During the busy season, according to China Labor Watch, the Shanghai factory employs 100,000 people.
The labor practices of Apple’s suppliers in China came under intense scrutiny in 2010, when more than a dozen workers at a Foxconn factory in Shenzhen committed suicide.
Automakers are getting a failing grade for their record on replacing flawed air bag inflators in millions of cars on U.S. roads, and the federal auto safety watchdog is debating whether to invoke its power to help speed up the process. The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration announced at a public meeting in Washington Thursday that it would decide by Thanksgiving if it will flex its regulatory muscle in the largest auto safety recall in U.S. history.
The air bag inflators, made by Japanese auto parts supplier Takata Corp., can explode when they’re deployed, spewing fragments into the bodies of drivers and passengers. The deadly flaw has been linked to at least eight deaths and about 100 injuries worldwide. (The number could be higher since the causes of death and injury could be misdiagnosed at accident scenes.) At least 11 automakers and dozens of models dating back more than a decade are covered by the recall in the U.S. Millions more are affected worldwide.
More than two years after automakers began telling customers to bring their cars in for repair, the NHTSA still hasn’t invoked a little-known power it has to accelerate remedies in product safety recalls. Administrator Mark Rosekind said in a presentation Thursday that only 4.4 million of 23.4 million air bag inflators in the U.S. have been replaced, or about 18 percent. At least 19.2 million vehicles on U.S. roads have one or two flawed inflators, which means most cars are still carrying safety parts that behave like fragmentation grenades.
The power, known informally as the accelerated remedy provision, allows the NHTSA to take over when it feels manufacturers are taking too long to fix dangerous flaws. In May, the NHTSA announced it would consider implementing its power. But on Thursday, Rosekind said his agency was still mulling the move.
“It allows them to do certain things, like force manufacturers to use one or more suppliers to speed up the process,” said Michael Brooks, staff attorney at the Center for Auto Safety. “It’s something that’s rarely done, but NHTSA could step in and do that.”
Part of the agency’s hesitancy could be that there’s little it can really do except confirm what manufacturers are already saying: that they’re fixing the cars as quickly as the supply of air bag parts are available.
“It’s like filling a tub with the drain open,” Honda USA spokesman Chris Martin told International Business Times in May. “We’re refilling the tub constantly.”
The NHTSA said Takata is making 2.8 million units in October using parts supplied by air-bag makers Autoliv Inc., Daicel Corp. and TRW Automotive Inc.
But if the agency takes over, it could consolidate and streamline efforts, as well as ensure that manufacturers are doing everything possible to repair cars as quickly as possible.
The air bag inflators contain ammonium nitrate, a common ingredient used in controlled explosions, such as building demolitions. The compound’s reaction with water – and humidity – is believed to be the cause of the problem. Over time, the chemical can change to explode with more force than needed to rapidly inflate the air bag. Takata has said vehicles bought or registered in humid states like Florida and Louisiana are at greater risk.
If the NHTSA decides to initiate control over the recall, which involves at least a dozen companies (Takata and the 11 involved automakers), it could, among other things, allow independent car repair shops, not just manufacturers, to make the fix when the parts become available, order Takata and automakers to perform additional tests on replacement parts and expand the air bag recall to include more cars in the future without waiting for automakers to make those decisions.
The following is a list of affected cars in the U.S. compiled by the NHTSA. The list was last updated on Sept. 16, 2015. U.S. vehicle owners can also plug their Vehicle Identification Number into the NHTSA recall database to check on this and other recalls. In April, Cars.com discovered that NHTSA’s recall website was incomplete, so owners should also check with their automaker’s online recall tools. Click on the links below to go to those sites for U.S.-specific recalls.
BMW:2000 - 328i2001-2006 - M32002-2003 - M52000 - 323i 2002-2006 - 325Ci2002-2006 - 330Ci2002-2003 - 325iT2002-2003 - 325XiT2001-2006 - 325i2001-2005 - 325Xi2001-2006 - 330i 2001-2005 - 330Xi2002-2003 - 525i 2002-2003 - 530i 2002-2003 - 540i 2003-2004 - X5 3.0i 2003-2004 - X5 4.4i
Fiat Chrysler Automobiles:2007-2008 Chrysler Aspen2005-2010 Chrysler 3002005-2010 Chrysler 300C2005-2010 Chrysler SRT82008-2010 Dodge Challenger2005-2010 Dodge Charger2005-2011 Dodge Dakota2004-2008 Dodge Durango 2005-2010 Dodge Magnum 2003-2008 Dodge Ram 1500 2003-2009 Dodge Ram 2500 2003-2009 Dodge Ram 3500 2008-2010 Dodge Ram 4500 2008-2010 Dodge Ram 5500
Ford Motor:2004-2006 Ranger 2005-2006 GT2005-2014 Mustang
General Motors:2007-2008 Chevrolet Silverado 2500 2007-2008 Chevrolet Silverado 3500 2007-2008 GMC Sierra 2500 2007-2008 GMC Sierra 35002003-2007 Pontiac Vibe2005 Saab 9-2x
Honda:2001-2007 Accord 2001-2005 Civic2003-2005 Civic Hybrid 2002-2006 CR-V 2003-2011 Element2002-2004 Odyssey 2003-2008 Pilot2006 Ridgeline2003 Acura CL 2002-2003 Acura TL2003-2006 Acura MDX2005 Acura RL
Mazda:2004-2006 B-Series Truck2003-2008 Mazda6 2006-2007 Mazda Mazdaspeed62004-2005 MPV 2004-2008 RX-8
Mitsubishi:2004-2006 Lancer 2004-2006 Lancer Evolution 2004 Lancer Sportback2006-2009 Mitsubishi Raider
Nissan:2001-2003 Nissan Maxima2002-2006 Nissan Sentra 2002-2004 Nissan Pathfinder2001 Infiniti I302003-2005 Infiniti FX35 2003-2005 Infiniti FX452002-2004 Infiniti I35 2006 Infiniti M35 2006 Infiniti M452002-2003 Infiniti QX4
Subaru:2003-2005 Baja2004-2005 Impreza 2003-2005 Legacy 2003-2005 Outback
Toyota:2003-2007 Corolla 2003-2007 Corolla Matrix 2004-2005 Rav42002-2007 Sequoia 2003-2006 Tundra 2002-2007 Lexus SC
Daimler Trucks North America:2008-2009 Sterling Bullet 45002008-2009 Sterling Bullet 5500
Daimler Vans USA LLC: 2006-2008 Dodge Sprinter 2500 2006-2008 Dodge Sprinter 35002007-2008 Freightliner Sprinter 25002007-2008 Freightliner Sprinter 3500
U.S. Rep. Paul Ryan, R-Wis., is prepared to run for speaker of the House, but, like any good negotiator, he has a list of demands. One is that he not sacrifice any of his cherished time off the job.
“I cannot and will not give up my family time,” Ryan, who is known for spending weekends in Janesville, Wisconsin, with his wife and three children, told reporters this week.
It remains unclear what sort of arrangement Ryan’s bargaining will produce. But as critics have noted, millions of other working Americans do not have the luxury of paid time off, and the former vice presidential candidate has blocked efforts to change this fact.
The United States remains the only industrialized country without any form of guaranteed paid family leave. (Papua New Guinea and Suriname are the only other countries without such a statutory requirement.) Under the current system, some American workers can take a limited amount of unpaid time off, but the law is riddled with exemptions: It does not apply to small businesses, and employees have to spend at least a year on their jobs and rack up enough hours to qualify.
Advocacy groups have repeatedly called on Congress to bring U.S. policy in line with the rest of the developed world, and President Barack Obama said as much in his most recent State of the Union address. Ryan has rejected these demands.
In fact, as Politico’s Marianne LeVine notes, “when it comes to federal policies on family leave, Ryan has opposed virtually every measure proposed over the past several years.”
Along with his fellow Republicans, Ryan has not signed on to a bill that would guarantee up to seven days of paid sick leave for workers at businesses with 15 or more employees. Likewise, he has not lent his support to legislation that would create a federally operated paid family and medical leave insurance program. The latter was referred to the powerful House and Ways Committee, which is chaired by Ryan, but legislators have not taken up the bill.
The apparent double standard has triggered the scorn of paid leave advocates.
“Very few Americans have the resources Ryan does to demand that their jobs allow for family time,” Ellen Bravo, executive director of the pro-paid leave group Family Values @ Work, said in a statement. “Instead of taking steps to ensure that every person can manage the demands of work and family, Rep. Ryan has repeatedly opposed progress on that front.”
When asked about the charges of hypocrisy, a Ryan spokesman pointed to the congressman’s support for the Working Families Flexibility Act. Opposed by paid leave advocates, the bill would give employers the ability to swap paid time off with overtime pay obligations.
As the liberal site ThinkProgress notes, Ryan has maintained a similarly tough stance toward child care subsidies. His famously hawkish budget proposals have proposed cuts to a major source of federal funding to these programs. Worker advocates consider these subsidies to be a critically important boost to the working poor.
Last Christmas, Tiffany Belk had a mild breakdown. She always knew she wanted to put her creative writing degree to use by helping her grandfather pen his biography. So, a few years ago, she gave notice at the New York branding agency where she had worked since graduating college. 
“Grandpa, I’m coming home to write your book,” she told him. The work wouldn’t pay the bills, but she planned to find a flexible job to make ends meet. To save money, Belk, 29, began living rent-free with her sister and closest friend, Lauren Hodgkins, in the home she owns on 2 ½ acres in Georgetown, Texas. A married mother of two, 30-year-old Hodgkins earned a master’s degree before landing a job as a physician assistant making $85,000 a year. That’s in addition to her husband’s oil industry job.
The vast gap between the sisters’ financial status didn’t become an issue until the holidays. Hodgkins and her husband love giving gifts and spared no expense putting presents under the tree. That’s when it hit Belk.
“I was trying to keep up and failing because I didn't have the ability to buy the big gifts,” Belk says. "Of course, they said not to worry, but it still made me feel a little insecure and inadequate that even though I wasn't paying rent, I didn't have enough saved to be able to afford high-ticket items."
Lauren and Tiffany in the 1980s. Photo: Lauren Hodgkins
The income divide between Tiffany and Lauren is striking but not unusual for people their age. Wealth inequality among millennials is more pronounced than in any other American generation. Engineering majors fresh out of college command lavish Silicon Valley salaries designing apps that feature “content” written by their poorly paid peers who studied literature. Graduates of law and business schools walk into six-figure incomes while friends struggle to make their way in nonprofit or government jobs. Teachers and social workers watch as former classmates launch venture-backed startups or climb the ranks at companies like Google. 
For a select few millennials, career paths are already paved with gold. One-third of Americans who earn over $500,000 a year are under the age of 35, according to market research firm FutureCast. They exist in an income bracket dominated by lawyers, executives, engineers and entrepreneurs. 
Still, the vast majority of millennials, 90 percent, make less than $60,000 a year. Slower wage growth is part of the problem, particularly among those with a bachelor's degree or less. College graduates who entered the workforce in the mid-1990s saw their incomes increase by 50 percent over their first five working years, according to data from the U.S. Census Bureau’s Current Population Survey. Millennials who graduated in 2008 have seen their incomes rise by less than 25 percent in the same time frame. 
Although wage growth among college graduates is lackluster, census data suggests it’s still better to be a millennial with a degree. The unemployment rate for millennials with a bachelor’s degree was 3.7 percent in 2013, compared to 13.5 percent for those who did not complete high school. 
Among high earners, salaries and savings grow exponentially, leading to an even wider gap over time. While Hodgkins saves for the future and decides how to spend her disposable income, Belk watches every penny. “I’ve always had what I call the Walmart lifestyle, where I thought $50 purchases were extravagant,” she says. 
Recently, Belk began working three days a week as a dog adoption counselor for an animal shelter. At $13 an hour, it’s a far cry from her days as a big-city professional.
Hodgkins was happy to have her sister crash in the guest bedroom, even if Belk couldn’t contribute much financially. She went grocery shopping and helped out with the child care when Hodgkins and her husband were working. Belk valued the family time but knew she needed her own place. “I felt more like a baby sitter at some points than a fellow roommate in the household,” she says. She now shares a two-bedroom apartment with a friend in nearby Austin, Texas.
For friends and family members, navigating the wealth divide can be difficult. Irene S. Levine, a psychologist and friendship expert, says that when financial differences exist between friends, it’s important to avoid money talk. That is, asking about salaries or the cost of large purchases. Allowing the income disparity to fade into the background is the best way to maintain the relationship in the long run. 
“If you became friends because you shared an interest in exercise, you can take walks together or go for a hike,” says Levine. “You don’t necessarily have to climb Mount Kilimanjaro.” 
Donny Gamble, a 30-year-old entrepreneur who aims to bridge the gap between the middle class and the wealthy with his investor education website, PersonalIncome.org, says making friends is important, especially if you want to follow a different path. “Hang around who you want to become. Your mind will be expanded with the things that can be accomplished,” he says.
Millennials raised on economic uncertainty may place less value on money than previous generations. “If the financial markets are going to be volatile, the most secure thing you can do is find a life and work that you love,” says Megan Hellerer, 31, a personal and executive coach in New York City and a former Google executive. “Take one action every day toward something that lights you up, even if you can't see where it is leading you,” she says.
For now, writing does that for Belk, but she wonders if she’ll feel the same way in five or 10 years. Even if she did want to change paths, she doesn’t see many options. “Sometimes it’s hard because you look at the generations before us who stayed in their jobs for 40 years and now there aren’t as many jobs where you have that stability,” she says.
Now that Belk lives on her own, she gravitates toward people who share her beliefs about money. Many of her co-workers have become close friends. Like Belk, they spend their free time focusing on artistic pursuits. Most of them do not picture a house or kids in their future. 
"In a way, it’s freeing because I’ve found people taking a similar financial path to me," Belk says. "When you have money, it’s hard to comprehend the reality of living with financial constraints or that a person may be happy not making as much. This is a lifestyle choice." 
This fall has been a chaotic one for Congress. Amid the ongoing drama of a House of Representatives leadership struggle and federal budget negotiations, the U.S. government has yet another bureaucratic issue to contend with: whether or not it will increase its debt limit, something that has turned into a burgeoning economic crisis for the country.
The Treasury Department estimates the federal government will run out of money by Nov. 3, and with that deadline less than two weeks away, Republicans and Democrats are facing intense political pressure to lift the legal cap on government borrowing as soon as possible. If Congress does not take action in time, the government could default on its loans for the first time in  modern U.S. history, which economists say would be catastrophic and have serious, long-lasting financial implications.
The debt limit, or debt ceiling, is the maximum amount of money the federal government is allowed to borrow from itself and from other countries around the world. The current limit is $18.1 trillion, which might sound like a lot, but is still not enough for the government to operate. The U.S. government spends more money than it takes in every year, prompting it to seek alternate means of funding.

Congress used to vote every time the Treasury Department wanted to borrow money, but when this became too cumbersome leading up to World War I, lawmakers created the debt limit in 1917. Now, whenever the government gets close to hitting the debt ceiling, Congress votes to allow the government to continue spending money and then votes again to raise the amount the Treasury Department can borrow.
The U.S. federal debt has increased over time; and in recent years, Congress has frequently had to raise the debt limit. Since 1960, it has acted 78 times to permanently raise, temporarily extend or revise the debt ceiling, according to the  Treasury Department. Of those occasions, 49 have happened under Republican presidents and 29 have taken place under Democratic presidents.
Like most things in Congress, the debt ceiling has become politicized over time. This means that whenever the government needs to borrow more money, Congress now tries to use the opportunity to force the president, or whichever party is in the minority, to agree to legislation they would otherwise be reluctant to pass.
Debt Limit Q&amp;A: Does raising the debt ceiling approve new spending? https://t.co/i1JNzUxVYZ pic.twitter.com/wMPnKGDDoI
&mdash; Real Time Economics (@WSJecon) October 22, 2015
Over the past few months, Republicans have said they want to attach large spending cuts or entitlement reforms to the debt limit increase, and the right wing of the party is pushing for the leadership to take a stand. Rep. Mick Mulvaney, R-S.C., told the Huffington Post Monday that the conservative House Freedom Caucus may  refuse to vote for an increase that doesn’t include cuts.

All of this has been complicated by House Speaker John Boehner’s announcement last month that he will resign at the end of October. When House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy unexpectedly dropped out of the race to replace Boehner, he  set off a scramble to find a new speaker. While Rep. Paul Ryan, R-Wis., has now said he will run to replace Boehner and has the support of a majority of the House Freedom Caucus, those votes are taking place Oct. 28 and 29 -- right before the debt limit deadline.
Congress also drew close to causing a government shutdown last month when tense negotiations between Republicans and Democrats over the federal budget led the House to pass a continuing resolution just hours before federal agencies ran out of money. The continuing resolution preserves last year's funding levels until Dec. 11, at which time Congress will need to deal with budget appropriations again.
This will be the  fifth time Congress has acted to increase the debt ceiling since Boehner became speaker in 2010, and the fights over these increases are part of what has contributed to his declining popularity. Both Boehner and Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., have said they will not allow a default, but so far, McConnell is waiting to see what the House does before he acts.
The House could vote Friday on a bill from Texas Rep. Bill Flores, who heads the conservative Republican Study Committee, that would provide conditions for increasing the ceiling such as freezing all major rules until 2017. However, the Obama administration has said it would only accept a “clean” raise without strings attached, and Congressional Democrats are similarly not willing to negotiate.
“The consequences of brinkmanship and waiting until the 11th hour are already upon us,” Charles Schumer of New York, the third-ranking Senate Democrat,  told reporters Tuesday. “The yield on Treasury bills is already gone up. People have to pay more for mortgages, people have to pay more for car loans, people have to pay more for student loans.”
Treasury Secretary Jack Lew has also been urging lawmakers to cooperate and act sooner rather than later. While the Treasury Department has given a deadline of Nov. 3, this is subject to cash fluctuations, and Lew has warned the damage done by even flirting with a default could be permanent.
Upcoming Debt Ceiling Fight Could Get Really Ugly http://t.co/mMADIILHhK pic.twitter.com/rdslZRRU1c
&mdash; ValueWalk (@valuewalk) October 14, 2015
"We have learned from the past that failing to act until the last minute can cause serious harm to business and consumer confidence, raise short-term borrowing costs for taxpayers and negatively impact the credit rating of the United States,"  he said last week.
If the U.S. did default, it would cause other countries to lose confidence in U.S. Treasury securities, leading to higher interest rates on U.S. debt because of the perceived riskiness of funding the government. This could cause the stock market to crash and the dollar to depreciate in value -- all bad outcomes for the U.S. In 2011, then-Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke said that even failing to meet the debt payment deadline  for 20 minutes would cause a huge problem for the United States.
All of these apocalyptic warnings mean that no one in Congress wants to let the country default. But as they scramble to figure out a solution in the coming days, it seems that may be the only factor they agree on as of yet.
"Paul Ryan, who I hope can be the next speaker, very reasonably said last week, 'If the United States missed a bond payment, it would shake the confidence of the world economy,'" Senate Minority Leader  Harry Reid said, according to the Huffington Post. "I hope Republicans will come to their senses and pass a clean bill."
Ford Motor Co. is steadily tightening the taps at its car-producing plants around the globe. The U.S. auto giant has more than halved its water use over the last decade through fixes as simple as repairing leaky pipes to complex upgrades in its painting and metal-cutting systems. The Detroit automaker says its ultimate aim is to completely eliminate water from its production. And while water-free assembly lines are still years away, Ford says it’s chasing the lofty goal to spare the company future pain as global supplies reach critical lows and regulators clamp down on water permits.
“We want to find ways that totally reduce our footprint, that -- to the extent we can -- do not use water,” said Andy Hobbs, who directs Ford’s environmental quality office in Detroit. “We don’t know how to get to a full zero yet, but we’re getting close.”
Ford is among the rare handful of global companies that see an economic incentive in drastically curbing water use from operations and supply chains. They’re doing so as water crises -- from droughts and depleted aquifers to polluted drinking water -- increasingly threaten to undercut global economic growth. The World Economic Forum this year ranked water issues as the greatest risk to economies and people in the next decade. Yet the majority of the world’s businesses aren’t preparing for a water-scarce future. As populations rise, demand for energy grows and climate change accelerates, those firms might find themselves scrambling for the remaining drops of clean water, the Swiss organization said.
Major businesses say they’re already feeling the pressures of a water-constrained world, both to their bottom lines and from sustainability-focused shareholders. In a survey released Thursday, nearly two-thirds of companies said they expected water concerns to affect their operations or financials in the coming years, according to CDP, a climate advocacy group in London. About one-fourth of firms said they’ve recently experienced “detrimental” water-related impacts, including lack of adequate supplies or regulatory curbs on operations. CDP surveyed 405 publicly listed companies for its annual Global Water Report, although hundreds more businesses did not respond to survey requests.
“We’re seeing more strongly than ever that … water security is a business imperative,” said Marcus Norton, chief partnerships officer for CDP and its former water programs director. “We want companies to be changing their behaviors and becoming part of the solution.”
New Ford vehicles are seen at a parking lot of the Ford factory in Sao Bernardo do Campo, Brazil, on Feb. 12, 2015.  Photo: Reuters/Paulo Whitaker
Hobbs said Ford began working in earnest to slash water use around 2000, when the Big Three automaker created its environmental quality office and adopted a broader corporate sustainability agenda. “When we looked at the company globally, 20 to 30 percent of our facilities were in extremely water-stressed areas,” including in northern Mexico, southern Spain and in parts of the U.K., he said.
Ford’s first water-related fixes were relatively low-hanging fruit: Seal dripping faucets and leaking fire hydrants, upgrade building equipment to water-conserving models. Ford also recycled and reused more water where it could in place of potable water.
The more dramatic changes arrived on Ford’s factory floors, particularly during the painting process. The conventional way to paint vehicles requires dousing cars with water after each coat, resulting in a thick sludge that has to be treated. But with the “3-wet” system, Ford immediately applies the primer, base coat and clear top coat while they’re still wet, reducing the need to hose down vehicles and cutting energy costs. General Motors and other automakers are adopting similar approaches at some of their plants.
Ford is also cutting water use from the manufacturing of metal products, such as engines, transmissions and components. Typically, metal-cutting tools are frequently flooded with water and fluids to keep tools from overheating or jamming up. With “dry-machining” -- also called Minimum Quantity Lubrication -- mechanics apply tiny amounts of water and oil to precise points on the tools. Ford estimates the dry approach can save more than 280,000 gallons of water per year on a typical production line.
The U.S. auto giant incorporated all these approaches when expanding its assembly plant in Hermosillo, Mexico, where it makes the Fusion sedan and Lincoln MKZ luxury car. Ford boosted production volume by 40 percent without raising its water use, Hobbs said. The company  has since replicated this approach at its plants in India and China.
Overall, Ford says it has cut total total water consumption by 62 percent from 2000 to 2014, avoiding roughly 10 billion gallons of water. Hobbs acknowledged the higher costs of upgrading equipment and repairing facilities to be more water efficient. But he said Ford ultimately would’ve spent more money to use all that H20, given that procuring and treating water is become more expensive globally.
“When we started down this path, water was inexpensive,” he said. “But because we reduced by that much, our costs are actually flat, because the cost of water has gone up so high.”
A general view of the assembly line of the new Ford Fiesta in Cologne, Germany, on Feb. 4, 2013.  Photo: Reuters/Wolfgang Rattay
Ford reported $135.8 billion in automotive revenues in 2014, with U.S. auto sales totaling nearly 2.5 million that year.
CDP, the environmental organization, listed Ford as one of the eight “A List” companies for water conservation in its Thursday report. The other water-saving corporations include Japan’s Toyota Motor Corp., two South African mining companies -- Harmony Gold Mining Co. and Kumbra Iron Ore -- as well as Colgate Palmolive Company, the U.S. consumer products manufacturer. 
Still, the CDP survey suggested the A-list companies were the exception, not the norm, when it comes to corporate water sustainability. More than 60 percent of the public companies that CDP approached for the survey, or nearly 700 companies, ignored or declined the request, which CDP typically takes to be a sign that executives aren’t interested in the topic. “That’s clearly a significant concern,” said Norton, the CDP executive. “There’s a real gap between the leaders and laggards.”
The oil and gas sector -- one of the world’s most water-intensive industries -- had the lowest turnout in the CDP survey, with only a 22 percent response rate. But of the firms that did respond, 85 percent said their operations are exposed to “substantive” water risks, including the risk of oil spills, limited freshwater supplies and even reputational risks associated with guzzling water in water-stressed regions.
A separate report in May found a similarly lackluster showing from 37 major U.S. and global food companies. Ceres, a coalition of environmentally focused investors, found that while most companies acknowledge the risks they face from a lack of water, only a handful are actively working to slash water consumption and protect the rivers and watersheds that sustain their fields and livestock. 
Yet food companies are seeing their profits squeezed and investments stymied because of water-related challenges. Agribusiness giant Cargill Inc. closed a beef-harvest facility in Milwaukee in 2014 and is shuttering a corn-milling feed facility in Tennessee due to drought-related declines in the U.S. beef-cattle herd. This spring, Coca-Cola Co. scrapped plans for an $81 million bottling plant in southern India because of opposition by local farmers, who feared the facility would strain groundwater supplies.    Nearly two-thirds of companies responding to CDP's survey said they expected water concerns to affect their operations or financials in coming years. Photo: CDP Global Water Report 2015
In CDP’s latest water survey, companies reported more than $2.5 billion in water-related impacts in the last year. The figure doesn’t include proactive expenses, like the $3 billion that BHP Billiton Ltd. and Rio Tinto Plc are planning to spend for a seawater desalination plant at one of Chile’s largest copper mines in the Atacama desert. “Something that’s often missed in this space is that the true value of water to a business comes in terms of its license to operate, brand value and business resilience,” Norton said. “Those things are very difficult to quantify.”
Back in Detroit, Hobbs said Ford is still pushing to find the technologies and techniques that will help it eliminate water from production lines. Their mission is growing more urgent, he said, pointing to the brutal four-year drought in California and significant supply constraints in China and India. “The environments in which we operate are changing,” he added. “The water-stressed areas are really becoming more water-stressed.”
Story was updated at 4 p.m. EDT.
U.S. stocks closed higher Thursday after the European Central Bank (ECB) left open the possibility of further monetary easing. Meanwhile, Wall Street took in the latest batch of earnings, including surprises from McDonald’s and Dow Chemical, and reacted positively to U.S. economic data on jobless claims.
The Dow Jones Industrial Average (INDEXDJX:.DJI) gained 320.55 points, or 1.87 percent, to 17,489. The S&P 500 index (INDEXSP:.INX) advanced 33.57 points, or 1.66 percent, to 2,053. The Nasdaq composite (INDEXNASDAQ:.IXIC) rose 79.93  points, or 1.65 percent, to 4,920. Nine out of 10 S&P 500 sectors closed up Thursday morning, led by industrial and raw materials.
McDonald's Corporation (NYSE:MCD) closed up 8.12 percent to $110.87 after hitting its 52-week high in intraday trading. The world’s biggest restaurant chain reported a surprising jump in third quarter sales, its first increase in more than a year.
European stocks got a boost after ECB President Mario Draghi said at a news conference that inflation in the eurozone remained unchanged since central bank's last meeting, which means the quantitative easing program the ECB began in March would likely continue. Draghi’s remarks pushed the euro down more than 1.5 percent against the dollar.
Meanwhile, the number of Americans filing for unemployment benefits increased less than expected last week, according to Labor Department data released Thursday. Jobless claims increased by 3,000 to a seasonally adjusted 259,000 for the week ended Oct. 17. It was the 33rd consecutive week that claims remained below the 300,000 threshold, considered a sign of a strengthening jobs market.
Optimism on the state of corporate America rose after a slew of earnings were announced before markets opened Thursday.
McDonald's said third-quarter, same-store global sales jumped 4 percent, much higher than Wall Street’s estimated 1.9 percent. The Illinois-based company said demand recovered in China after last year’s food-safety scandal touched a Shanghai food processing factory. U.S. sales improved on a breakfast-all-day menu change.
Higher franchise fees and Baskin Robbins ice cream sales helped Dunkin Brands Group Inc. (NASDAQ:DNKN) report better-than-expected third-quarter revenue and profit. The Massachusetts-based coffee chain has been struggling with tepid U.S. sales.
Dow Chemical Co. (NYSE:DOW) surprised Wall Street with higher-than-expected profit and a quarterly dividends increase. The Michigan-based science and technology company said it would restructure its Kuwait joint ventures and review options for its struggling agro-sciences business.
Caterpillar Inc. (NYSE:CAT) said net profit tumbled in its third quarter as worldwide construction, oil and gas drilling and mining activity retreated. Net income for the Illinois-based heavy machinery maker plummeted to $368 million from $1.02 billion in the same quarter last year.
United Continental Holdings Inc. (NYSE:UAL) reported lower-than-expected earnings in the third quarter and said it expects significantly lower revenue in the fourth quarter as a strong dollar impacted global sales for the Chicago-based parent of United Airlines.
Raytheon Company (NYSE:RTN) reported 13 percent lower earnings, to $448 million, due to its $1.9 billion acquisition of cybersecurity firm Websense, but the Massachusetts-based weapons manufacturer raised its full-year revenue forecast on expectations of strong Patriot and TOW missile sales.
The Treasury Department postponed the sale of 2-year notes originally scheduled for an Oct. 27 auction over concerns that Congress will fail to raise the national borrowing limit in time to settle the debts. The news comes as a warning signal ahead of a looming Nov. 3 deadline, after which the Treasury Department will struggle to meet national obligations. 
Auctions for 5-year and 7-year Treasurys will go as planned, the department said, noting that the 2-year notes pose "less risk for market functioning" than those offerings. 
On Wednesday, Treasury Department Secretary Jack Lew said failure to raise the borrowing limit in time could lead to an economic "accident." Failures to promptly raise the debt ceiling in previous years have cost the U.S. billions of dollars in increased borrowing costs, the Government Accountability Office has estimated. 
The Treasury Department has warned that it will have only $30 billion by Nov. 3. All eyes are on congressional Republicans, who have been embroiled in a leadership struggle over the past several weeks. 
SHANGHAI -- For Chinese President Xi Jinping, receiving such a warm and lavish welcome from Britain's royalty, political and business elite is, some observers have noted, almost as important as the trade deals signed on this week's state visit to London.
China's state-controlled media has downplayed criticisms and protests in the U.K. in coverage of the visit, highlighting instead the rare level of courtesy shown to the Chinese president by the royal family: Xi is staying three nights at Buckingham Palace and has held individual meetings with all major members of the royal family, which also held a state banquet in his honor.
Chinese officials know that such pageantry and gestures of respect are a boost to the president’s credibility at home at a time of pressure on the economy. And Thursday's Chinese newspapers and websites continued the theme: There was Xi laughing with Prince Andrew, his wife Peng Liyuan chatting with Queen Elizabeth, and the two of them smiling with the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge. TV screens on the Shanghai subway on Thursday were still showing images of Xi inspecting the honor guard with Prince Philip at his official welcoming ceremony on Tuesday – which also filled the front page of the influential Southern Weekly. And many front pages carried pictures of Xi standing with Prime Minister David Cameron on the steps of 10 Downing St., where the prime minister resides.
For many papers, including the Shanghai Morning Post, the top headline on Thursday was “Xi meets Cameron, announces a new golden era of bilateral relations.” Others hailed the two countries’ relationship as a “A global comprehensive strategic partnership for the 21st century”, as Caixin magazine put it. The Global Times also highlighted this phrase - first used by the two countries a decade ago -- saying it implied an “enduring, inclusive and win-win relationship” for Britain and China.
China's President Xi Jinping views satellite coverage screens in the Network Operation Centre control room with Rupert Pearce (right), CEO of Inmarsat, during his visit to Inmarsat in London, Thursday, Oct. 22, 2015. Xi and his wife Peng Liyuan are on a four-day state visit to Britain. Photo: Reuters/Anthony Devlin
But, as in the British media coverage, the sealing of a $9 billion investment by state-owned China General Nuclear Corp. in the Hinkley Point C nuclear reactor in the southwest of England, in partnership with French company EDF, was a focal point. Many Chinese reports stressed the symbolic significance of this first major nuclear project for China in a developed country: “Our own third-generation nuclear power station arrives in Britain!” proclaimed Shanghai news website the Paper, with more than a hint of pride. It said this was “a milestone in the international expansion of China’s nuclear industry.” The Global Times quoted Xi's comment that this was “a flagship project," along with an expert who said this “symbolic step” would “open more doors for Chinese nuclear companies in the future.”
There was little reference to the criticisms of the project in Britain, where environmentalists such as former Friends of the Earth head Jonathan Porritt have described it as a “white elephant ... [one of the] most expensive power stations in the world” that risks having its planned 2025 start date delayed by technological issues. Nor was there any reference to other complaints about China’s nuclear safety record, and the dangers of allowing an authoritarian state to influence a key part of Britain’s infrastructure.
Instead there has been continuing good news about what the China Daily called “record-breaking trade deals,” with some media headlining the fact that “150 projects” were to be approved, with a total worth of some $60 billion. Chinese media gave a breakdown of the deals, which included billion pounds ($3 billion) in healthcare trade deals and collaborations – with the U.K. to train Chinese doctors and nurses, and build hospitals in China, and universities from the two countries to cooperate on developing cancer treatments. Chinese funding for iconic car brand Aston Martin, British Petroleum cooperating with China National Petroleum Corp. in Iraq and Angola, and plans to build a British-backed Legoland theme park in Shanghai were also highlighted. A Chinese company is also reported to be buying the major British toy retailer Hamleys. 
But for one Shanghai newspaper the trade deals came second: the Oriental Morning Post headlined the announcement of a “relaxation of visas for Chinese tourists” -- while the Shanghai Morning Post highlighted the “beautiful women and jewelry” on display at the state banquet at Buckingham Palace.
Chinese media this week praised Britain for what the president called its "wisdom" in putting differences over human rights and security issues to one side to forge ahead with economic ties. It’s a contrast to the approach of the U.S., which, during Xi's visit last month, focused on issues including cybersecurity, and tensions over China’s construction on islands in disputed waters in the South China Sea. For its part, China is unhappy about U.S. restrictions on transfers of high technology. Chinese media emphasized the U.K.'s cooperation with Chinese telecommunications company Huawei, which has been excluded from infrastructure projects in the U.S. for security reasons. 
A plan for Huawei and the University of Surrey to cooperate on a 5G innovation center “sets an example for the U.S., with a more open attitude toward cooperation with China,” said an opinion piece in the Global Times. It added, “U.S. firms may lose out if U.S. authorities refuse to follow in the footsteps of the U.K. in opening high-tech markets to Chinese investment.”
There has been little coverage in the Chinese media of any kind of protest against the Chinese President's state visit to the U.K. Photo: Getty Images  And the Paper revealed another first – the appointment of e-commerce giant Alibaba’s founder Jack Ma as a special economic adviser to Cameron. Ma is “the first Chinese entrepreneur ever to have this title,” the Paper noted, quoting Cameron as saying Alibaba was a business from a “new world and a new economy, and was one of the most eye-catching companies” of recent years.
There were brief references to Xi’s assurance to U.K. investors that the slowing Chinese economy will not face a “hard landing,” and to his comments about respecting the rule of law and human rights.
But there was little comment on some of the bitter British criticisms of the government’s warm embrace of China -- Cameron’s friend and former adviser Steve Hilton, for example, wrote a blistering attack on Britain’s “kowtow” to China’s “cruel, corrupt Communist dictators.”
Street protests in London against Xi's visit were not mentioned either, with Chinese media focusing on the crowds of Chinese students who greeted the president with flags and banners at many of his events in London -- although British media have suggested that at least some of those taking part were pushed to do so by the Chinese Embassy. 
The Global Times did acknowledge reports that Prince Charles did not attend the state banquet at Buckingham Palace on Tuesday evening as a gesture of solidarity with his friend, the exiled Tibetan spiritual leader the Dalai Lama, whom China denounces as a separatist. But it brushed the reports aside, saying they were speculation by a biased Western media, and such "chatter" would not affect the “historical significance” of Xi’s visit.
There were also few references to the controversy in the U.K. about whether Chinese steel-dumping had contributed to the closure of several steelworks, with the loss of thousands of jobs, in Britain over the past week. One commentator who did touch on the topic, on an official English-language website, said U.K. steel companies were blaming China in order to “lobby for state subsidies and protectionism." He also attacked the BBC for “hysterical … propaganda” in its reporting of China -- adding that “a big job remains to be done to educate the British public about the reality of Chinese society, politics and economics.”
In general, however, China's media, tightly controlled by the state, is clearly under instruction not to let whispers of dissent tarnish the new "Golden Era."
The Obama administration issued Wednesday its most vigorous call yet for intervention in Puerto Rico's debt crisis, which it says is unsustainable without congressional action. Although the Republican-controlled Congress has been devoted to limiting government spending, the Obama administration maintained the U.S. territory has been entrenched in a decadelong recession and urgently requires Congress' cooperation in preventing a financial disaster.
"Only Congress has the authority to provide Puerto Rico with the tools required to lay the foundation for the Commonwealth’s recovery, and Congress must act," read a joint statement released Wednesday evening by U.S. Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew, NEC Director Jeff Zients, and Health and Human Services Secretary Sylvia Mathews Burwel. "Without congressional action, Puerto Rico will face a long and difficult recovery that could have harmful consequences for the residents on the island and beyond."
The White House has previously worked with Puerto Rican officials on forming political solutions to its economic downturn, such as job creation investments, infrastructure projects and lowering energy costs. The territory is home to 3.5 million Americans, and has seen an exodus of approximately 300,000 people throughout the past decade amid a shrinking economy and high unemployment rates.
The Puerto Rican government is seeking Congress' help in restructuring its $72 million of debt, after the territory's Government Development Bank announced Wednesday it would end negotiations with a group of bondholders without reaching a debt restructuring deal.
In its statement, the White House laid out its four-step proposal to Congress, which includes providing Puerto Rico with a restructuring regime, providing independent fiscal oversight, reforming the Commonwealth's Medicaid program and providing access to the Earned Income Tax Credit (EITC).
The administration said it will present its plan to the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, the body that oversees Puerto Rico and other American territories.
German carmaker Volkswagen AG said Thursday that it was investigating if a software that falsified emissions data was installed in more vehicles than previously estimated. Meanwhile, a spokesman for the company told Bloomberg that nearly 3 million cars in Europe may need hardware fixes.
The latest announcement comes after Volkswagen admitted last month that nearly 11 million vehicles globally with EA 189 diesel engines may have been equipped with the illegal software. The company is now trying to find out if cars using the newer EA 288 diesel engines also had the cheat software.
With the illegal software, also known as "defeat device," vehicles, including models like Passat, Jetta, Beetle and Golf, were able to emit 40 times the nitrogen oxide than permissible limit when on the road. The "defeat device," however, would falsify the levels when it detected an emissions test. Nitrogen Oxide, a pollutant, can cause several lung ailments, the New York Times reported.
While a Volkswagen spokesman did not give an exact figure on the number of cars that could be affected by the latest announcement, the Times report said that the EA 288 has been installed in models like the Golf, which could take the number of affected cars to millions. However, the spokesman added that the latest versions of the engine don’t have the illegal software and are compliant with European diesel emissions standards.
Another spokesman for the company said, according to Bloomberg, that the cars with the 1.6-liter engines will need technical repairs. The EA 288 and EA 189 models both come with a 1.6-liter diesel engine. Last week, the company announced a recall of 8.5 million cars across Europe, adding that the fixes could drag on till 2017. The company has so far estimated the fallout of the emissions scandal at over 6.5 billion euros ($7.4 billion), which has already been set aside.
Moody’s Investors Service said, according Bloomberg, that the impact of the scandal, which led to the resignation of CEO Martin Winterkorn last month, could affect the company till 2017.
Albert Einstein died 60 years ago but still tweets every day. With the nearly 17 million Facebook fans he has amassed posthumously, his social media following is formidable even by living-person standards, surpassing "Jersey Shore" reality star Snooki, Patriots quarterback Tom Brady and U.S. Vice President Joe Biden — combined.
The famous scientist and quintessential genius published bold theories on relativity that shaped modern-day physics. But he has also become a modern brand, complete with a New York-based marketing team charged with preserving and promoting his reputation in the Internet age. That group, at Corbis Entertainment, hopes Einstein’s stellar social media performance will keep the public in touch with his scientific achievements and boost sales of products that feature his likeness.
Anthony Iliakostas, who runs Einstein’s social media for Corbis, says the responsibility requires him to think daily about what Einstein stands for and what he is not.
“He evoked wisdom, intellect, genius, creativity,” he says. “He's an icon and he goes beyond the science world.”
Albert Einstein won the Nobel Prize for Physics in 1921.  Photo: Corbis Entertainment
The monetary value of that genius adds up in today's dollars. At their NYC headquarters, the Corbis team has stacks of merchandise from companies that have paid to use Einstein’s image or quotes for their products—from board games, to educational kits to bobbleheads. Corbis wouldn’t say how much Einstein makes on these deals, but directed IBT to a Forbes article that states he is the fifth-highest-earning dead celebrity, raking in $20 million a year on average.
When Einstein died in 1955, he bequeathed his estate and the commercial rights to his image to The Hebrew University of Jerusalem. Einstein helped found the university and was a fervent supporter in his final years. The university hired the rights representation group at Corbis to manage the famous scientist's brand and image. Now, Corbis earns a percentage of the deals it secures.
A few years ago, Kevin Connelly, director of that group, pitched the idea of launching social media accounts for Einstein to the university. He wanted the accounts to serve as a funnel for questions from fans, which had previously been sent to the same email as licensing deals. His group receives at least one business inquiry and five to 10 requests for an autograph, teaching material or general information from fans every day.
Kevin Connelly directs the rights representation group at Corbis Entertainment in New York, which manages the commercial rights for Thomas Edison, Albert Einstein and the Wright Brothers.  Photo: Amy Nordrum/International Business Times
Roni Grosz, curator of the Albert Einstein Archives at Hebrew University, was skeptical at first. He didn’t think it was “fitting,” as he puts it, for Einstein to be on social media. But he agreed to let Corbis try it.
Now, Grosz is fond of the following that Einstein has amassed. He’s pleased at reaching the 18-to-35-year-old crowd, who make up the vast majority of Einstein’s fans, and to see how popular the Nobel Prize-winning scientist is in India and Brazil, which have both contributed more followers than the U.S.
Plus, the strategy has the potential to bring in new revenue if Einstein’s image becomes more popular through social media and leads to additional licensing deals. Revenue from Einstein’s brand is particularly useful to the university because, unlike donations, there are no strings attached.
“Einstein’s really our guy,” Grosz says. “That in the end generates income and international standing and ranking and so on.”

Meet Albert Einstein
So what’s it like to run the social media account of the world’s most famous scientist? There are a few hard and fast rules. Iliakostas is careful not to tweet as if he is actually Albert Einstein, preferring an objective voice. He does not respond to current events, promote emerging research or pontificate on developing news. He tries to keep it neutral and educational, while still lively and engaging. 
As a result, Einstein’s content ranges from the serious to the silly. No one on the Corbis team has any scientific expertise, so they rely on outside sources and experts as well as historical records to populate the accounts. In August, Iliakostas cross-posted articles from a recent Scientific American issue dedicated to Einstein’s theory of general relativity. On National Puppy Day in March, he uploaded an image to Facebook of Einstein with his dog.
“It’s not rocket science," Connelly says. "It's just a lot of common sense and it's fun." 
Albert Einstein surely enjoyed soaking some sun rays when he visited the beach. http://t.co/zWDYDKNvwf pic.twitter.com/PLV3E2vRVX
&mdash; Albert Einstein (@AlbertEinstein) October 16, 2015
Loyal followers will note that Einstein’s Twitter and Facebook pages are on something of a schedule. Every Thursday, Einstein participates in #tbt with one of hundreds of photos of the scientist that Corbis sells through the group’s image library. On Mondays, Iliakostas posts memes with verified Einstein quotes and proper attribution. These memes garner anywhere from 30,000 to a quarter million likes on Facebook.
Sometimes, Iliakostas uses Einstein's account to correct people who erroneously attribute quotes to Einstein. It happened recently with a Kardashian sister (though he can’t recall which one), and once with T-Pain. A gamer named @FaZe_Rain once gave Einstein’s Twitter page its single biggest daily jump in followers when he tweeted about it.
But Grosz still worries that social media is reducing Einstein’s image to that of a simplistic and celebrated scientist. He cares more about preserving Einstein’s full identity than picking and choosing the parts that look best on Instagram.
“In the last 30 years of his life, he was not very successful in the sciences,” he says. “He became an old, lonely man. He was a bad husband, he was a bad father. But he was only human.”
Look out for a tee w/ this Einstein design coming soon to commemorate 100 years of relativity. #ThanksEinstein pic.twitter.com/xOVKBvKojJ
&mdash; Albert Einstein (@AlbertEinstein) October 19, 2015
Einstein vs. Edison
Einstein’s remarkable social media success is inspiring. But most scientists seeking to commercialize their brilliance or posthumously preserve their image would struggle to achieve anything close to his popularity.
“This works with Einstein because I'd say he's one of the few scientists that most Americans really recognize,” Dominique Brossard, a marketing expert who specializes in life sciences at the University of Wisconsin-Madison, says. “I think for brand equity, he would be hard to beat.”
Take Thomas Edison, for example. He invented the light bulb, the telegraph and movies and held over 1,000 patents. To John Keegan, president and chairman of the Edison Innovation Foundation and Charles Edison Fund, Edison embodies innovation and entrepreneurship better than any other scientist, alive or dead.
“An inventor creates a single product or process and an innovator changes the world,” he says. “It wasn't good enough for Edison to invent the incandescent light bulb. In order to do that, he had to create the whole power industry with switches and generators and power lines.”
Edison’s contributions were widely celebrated by the public, which directly benefited from them while he was still alive. Time magazine may have named Einstein the “Person of the Century” but Life magazine dubbed Edison the “Man of the Millennium.”
“When he died in 1931, he was the most popular person in the world and everybody dimmed their lights for a minute,” Keegan says. But today, Edison’s social media presence is flailing. He has a measly 113,000 Facebook fans. 
Thomas Edison's former home is now part of the Thomas Edison National Historical Park in Newark, New Jersey. Approximately 51,000 visitors to the park generate about $3 million for the local economy each year.  Photo: Pixabay
His inventions and brand certainly have lasting financial value, if not heavy social media appeal. Each of Edison’s famous umbrella signatures is worth at least $1,500. Keegan estimates a letter to his son Charles that he keeps in his office is probably worth $50,000. The Thomas Edison National Historical Park in New Jersey, where the inventor’s home and laboratory remain, is valued at $4 billion. And while Corbis receives many more requests to use Einstein on products and merchandise, it's Edison who wins when it comes to advertising deals.
In fact, Keegan boils Edison’s principles down to four basic concepts and pitches them as highly relevant to companies and industries that value innovation: 1. Think outside the box, 2. Be entrepreneurial and open to risk, 3. Fail your way to success and 4. Success demands continual improvement.
“We’ve had more success in doing advertisements with Edison because companies are very attracted to what he says about innovation,” Connelly says. (Corbis manages commercial rights for Edison but does not run his social media accounts.)
Edison has been featured prominently in ads by Cree Lighting, Mazda, several banks and the Japanese patent office in recent years. He has appeared on the Super Bowl twice. Keegan wouldn’t reveal the size of these licensing deals but says, “It can be very substantial. Six figures is not unusual.”  
The Wright Brothers, another scientific personality managed by Corbis, pull in three to four licensing deals a year. Photo: Wikimedia Commons
Even Edison’s meager social media presence has helped the group to land more deals. “We find that when we get a call from someone interested in licensing from us, a corporation with a new electric vehicle, they have already been on our social media,” Tom Ungerland, a trustee of the Edison Innovation Fund and Charles Edison Fund, says. “To some extent, it drives our licensing.”
Similarly, Connelly says Corbis is exploring ways to directly monetize Einstein’s social media following. Of course, those plans hinge on the assumption that Einstein’s popularity on social media will continue to grow, even as his death drifts further into the past.
Iliakostas, at least, has no doubts. “There's always going to be a connection between Einstein and today’s scientific theories,” he says confidently.
Brossard agrees. “I think that's a brand that I can see lasting because after all, there’s only one Albert Einstein,” she says. “From a marketing perspective, there's no competition.” 
A former SpaceX employee has filed a class action lawsuit against the rocket company, saying hourly employees are regularly expected to work overtime hours without proper compensation. It's at least the fourth lawsuit alleging SpaceX violated California labor law to be filed since 2014.
The lead plaintiff in this case, Stan Saporito, worked as a structures technician at the Hawthorne, California-based company between June 2013 and February 2015. During that time he and other employees were forced to end their shift at the timekeeper and get back to work, according to allegations in the suit, which was first included in a Vice Motherboard report Wednesday.
“SpaceX required [Saporito] and [other hourly employees] to work off the clock without paying them for all the time they were under SpaceX's control performing post-shift duties, specifically by failing to provide enough labor hours to accomplish all the job tasks that SpaceX expected [them] to complete,” Saporito's attorney wrote in the suit. “[They] were required to clock out of SpaceX's timekeeping system in order to perform additional work for SpaceX as required to meet SpaceX's job requirements.”
SpaceX, founded by Elon Musk and based in Hawthorne, California, is notorious for overworking salaried employees, and dismissing them for minor infractions. One lawsuit filed last year also alleged that SpaceX managers pressured workers with schedules that prohibited time for meal and rests breaks required by California law (which stipulates that employees who work more than five hours have a 30-minute meal break, and a second 30 minutes if they work more than 10 hours). Another suit claimed SpaceX failed to give workers notice before a massive layoff in July. Each case is still pending.
“SpaceX denies the claims made in this complaint and will refute them in court,” a SpaceX spokesman told Motherboard in response to the latest class action.
Every time Joanne Jones picks up the phone to call her son in Texas, she cringes thinking about how much it will cost her. That’s because Jones’ son, Nate, is currently locked up in a Texas county jail -- and jail phone calls are notoriously expensive. A 15-minute call costs Jones $10, not including additional fees she’ll be charged. 
But that may soon change. Today, regulators at the Federal Communications Commission are expected to vote on new rules that will cap the phone rates and fees private prison companies are allowed to charge inmates and their families. The ruling will dismantle a lucrative partnership between U.S. prisons and the two private tech companies that dominate the prison calling business, Securus Technologies and Global Tel*Link (GTL).
[Update, 10/22: The FCC ruling passed.]
Since the early 1990s, when private companies took over jail and prison phones, the prices to keep in touch have soared. That's because cash-strapped jails have contracted with a few tech firms like Securus and GTL to provide calling services to inmates in deals where the jail gets a cut of the proceeds. Some prisons have eliminated old-fashioned phone calls altogether in favor of video calling.
Over the last year, for instance, Jones, who works as an occupational therapist, has spent well over $1,000 to speak with her son, who will face trial on robbery charges later this fall. “The rates are exorbitant,” she said. “People just can’t afford it.” 
The new regulations are historic in nature and will disrupt a highly profitable -- and controversial -- industry. They are also a long time coming. After more than a decade of deliberations, the FCC made its first pass at regulation in 2013 by reining in high rates for long-distance calls, but today’s rules far exceed any previous ones by addressing in-state calls and so-called site commissions. 

“The FCC has taken on the high rates, brought the hidden fees into the light, and imposed order on this market,” said Peter Wagner, executive director of the Prison Policy Initiative.
FCC Commissioner Mignon Clyburn, who has largely led the charge for more-affordable phone calls, spoke exclusively to International Business Times this past summer. “People should be treated with as much dignity and respect as possible, even if they are incarcerated,” Clyburn said. “They deserve that. I am committed to answer that call.” 
The new regulations will cap the average rate of a 15-minute phone call at $1.65, ban excessive ancillary fees and discourage the practice of companies paying site commissions, in which companies give local sheriffs a percentage of jail phone revenues. The rules are expected to go into effect early next year, but the FCC is already bracing for blowback from the companies that are directly impacted by the new rules. 
A Business-Ending Event?
For people who don’t regularly deal with the criminal justice system, it may come as a surprise that the prison phone business is so lucrative. But with 2.2 million inmates locked up nationwide, it’s not hard to understand what’s at stake. The industry collects about $1.2 billion in yearly revenues, and because contracts are monopolistic in nature and sell to a literal captive audience, many critics say price-gouging has become rampant. In some states, a 15-minute phone call costs $17.
The FCC regulations, not surprisingly, have the companies on edge. 
Recently, a lawyer for Securus Technologies called the incoming regulations a “business-ending” event and said the company will “litigate and appeal [the ruling] aggressively.” In fact, on Oct. 8, Standard & Poor’s placed Securus “on CreditWatch with negative implications” because of the impending regulations. 
Over the last year, IBT has been examining the ways in which the two major companies that compete in this market -- Securus and GTL -- have been reacting to the threat of regulations, particularly what would happen if the FCC abolishes site commissions.
The FCC has recognized that this incentive structure results in higher prices for inmates and their families. After all, if companies are giving away a large percentage of call revenues -- in some cases up to 96 percent -- they’ll ultimately need to raise prices on the customer. So, recently, GTL and Securus have gotten creative in their pitches to county jails. If they can't use commissions as a bargaining chip to win local business, it seems they're trying out new schemes. 
FCC Commissioner Mignon Clyburn is leading the fight on fair prison phone rates.  Photo: Mandel Ngan/Getty
As IBT reported in July, companies have begun offering million-dollar “signing bonuses” and free computer tablets to county jails in order to win contracts. They’re also diversifying how they make money. In April, IBT reported that Securus was requiring its county jails to remove in-person visitations in favor of its video visitation service, which costs $20 for a 20-minute phone call. (The FCC does not yet regulate video visitations.)
In some cases, contracts have been won using outright bribes. In August, a Mississippi contractor for GTL was indicted by the FBI and later pleaded guilty to charges that he handed over bags of cash to a Department of Corrections official on GTL's behalf. "I’ve been doing this stuff for a while,” Paul Wright, executive director of the Human Rights Defense Center, told IBT earlier this month. “There’s no transparency, and there’s no oversight. I’ve long suspected that there’s bribery to get these contracts.” (GTL claims it did not know about the bribes.)
Sheriffs Don’t Want The Regulations, Either
It’s not just companies and families who have a stake in the regulations; county sheriffs want them too. Right now, the FCC’s order is to “strongly discourage” the use of site commissions, which angers sheriffs, who argue that call revenue is used to offset the costs of providing jail and prison phones. 
In May, IBT reported that, should the FCC eliminate commissions, hundreds of wardens may rip the phones from the walls altogether. “It’s very possible that sheriffs could elect to eliminate the calls,” Jonathan Thompson, executive director of the National Sheriffs’ Association, told IBT. “They don’t have to provide a call service.”
Interestingly, the FCC order being voted on today does not explicitly deny the ability to offer commissions; it simply discourages it. This has companies outraged. 
In a joint statement submitted to the FCC on Oct. 16, several phone companies urged the FCC to consider the implications of forcing businesses to lower call rates but not explicitly terminating commissions. In essence, the companies know that sheriffs will continue to demand high commissions, but if the FCC reduces the rates they are allowed to charge customers, the companies argue their margins will be squeezed.
Families who spent thousands to keep in touch with loved ones are hardly bothered by the fact that the companies may lose out. 
“This is going to make a huge difference in people’s lives,” said Joanne Jones. Still, insiders are cautioning against any victory laps just yet.
“It’s great,” said Josh Gravens, a community activist in Texas. But, he added, “I think the phone companies will sue the minute the rule is made.”
French business confidence levels reached a four-year high Thursday, indicating possible signs of recovery, Bloomberg reported. The confidence was calculated using a sentiment index that measured the confidence of executives in services, retail, industry and construction.
The index rose to its highest mark since 2011, reaching 101 after months of hovering around 100. As a result of this index reading, French finance minister Michel Sapin said he was confident that Europe’s second largest economy was turning a corner following a 2008 recession that sunk the euro and damaged businesses across Europe. These numbers “show that the recovery is spreading,” Sapin told Bloomberg Thursday.
Despite its strong economy, France was not immune to the crisis in 2008, and the nation has continued to struggle with high levels of unemployment and stalling growth. Sapin said the French could expect to meet their growth goal of 1 percent by the end of the year.
Some finance experts had predicted earlier this year that France’s recovery would remain somewhat stagnant. “Business leaders are likely to continue with their wait-and-see attitude and will be little-inclined to accelerate their investment significantly,” read a statement from Insee, France’s bureau for statistics, as reported by the Wall Street Journal in April.
#France: Business confidence climbs to four-year high on services https://t.co/CVCjT0SeXU via @MarkDeen1 pic.twitter.com/U8qfqa2Pjv
— Zoe Schneeweiss (@ZSchneeweiss) October 22, 2015
News of French business confidence came as one of the country’s largest and most well-known companies, Air France, continued to see controversy play out on an international stage. Crisis broke for the airliner earlier this month after a negotiation with strikers turned violent. Several of Air France’s top executives were chased out of the meeting and forced to flee over fences, as strikers ripped their shirts and attacked them.
Local authorities saw the incident as a black mark on France’s reputation for labor relations, and an ensuing debate over French business culture has raged. After at first promising they would not cut more jobs, Air France executives continued to stall Thursday morning, Reuters reported. Employees had asked the company to limit the cost-saving job cuts to 2,900 through 2017.
The tallest building in Pittsburgh owes its title to the industrial giant that made the city famous. But instead of its floundering namesake, the U.S. Steel Tower now displays the initials of a different sort of employer: the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center, or UPMC.
When the signage went up eight years ago, it seemed, as the New York Times noted, to perfectly epitomize the evolution of a city and its labor force -- from an economy once world-renowned for its manufacturing might to one focused on “eds and meds”; a place where the working classes flock to booming research institutions and hospitals, not coke plants or blast furnaces.
In the old economy, steelworkers won pay raises and benefits that transformed what used to be a grueling, low-wage job into a virtual ticket to the middle class. But according to policymakers and labor advocates, too many workers in the new Pittsburgh are still struggling to make ends meet.
At hearings slated to kick off Thursday, a newly-formed, city council-backed wage committee plans to shed light on the problem -- and consider a potential remedy: Whether to follow the examples set by Seattle, San Francisco, and Los Angeles and adopt a $15 hourly minimum wage, more than double the current statewide minimum of $7.25. This is the core demand of the Fight For 15, the protest movement backed by the powerful Service Employees International Union (SEIU).
“We’ve been talking about the need to increase the minimum wage, but we’ve not really linked that to the benefits it can bring to the city or to workers and their families in a succinct way,” says Reverend Ricky Burgess, the committee’s architect and lone representative from city council. “What I want to do is provide some data.”
In addition to testimony from economists and poverty experts, the data will likely come first-hand from low-wage workers themselves -- people like Justin Sheldon, 34. He’s one of 62,000 people who work at the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center, the largest private employer in Pennsylvania, and by far, the largest employer of any kind in the Pittsburgh metropolitan area.
Medical residents at the hospitals tend to earn over $50,000 a year, according to the employee review site Glassdoor. But the more than 10,000 service workers -- the people who staff cafeterias, transport patients and sterilize equipment, among other things -- earn substantially less. They make an average of $12.81 an hour, UPMC said last year. The health care provider did not respond to request for comment.
“My reason [for supporting $15] is pretty simple,” says Sheldon, a housekeeper at the UPMC Presbyterian hospital. “I want to be able to support my family -- properly.”
Sheldon makes $12.52 an hour and works 48 hours a week, cleaning doctor’s offices, conference rooms and restrooms. He says he can barely pay the bills for his household, which includes two young children, ages six and four. His wife is visually impaired and receives Social Security disability payments, about $700 a month, he says. They pay $600 a month to rent a house in McKees Rocks, a blue-collar community that overlooks the Ohio River.
“Anything I save up usually ends up getting used” he says. Within a week of the next paycheck, “I’m usually down to $30 or less.”
The SEIU has been trying to unionize service workers at UPMC hospitals for years. A spokeswoman for the union’s local affiliate did not respond to requests for comment.
Matt Smith, president of the Greater Pittsburgh Chamber of Commerce, says his group “will monitor the hearings and will review the testimony as it develops a position.”
A Rocky Road Ahead?
Councilman Ricky Burgess says he drew inspiration for the wage committee from New York’s Fast Food Wage Board. Created by Gov. Andrew Cuomo -- under pressure from the Fight for 15 -- that panel recently approved a phased-in $15 minimum wage for fast food workers statewide. “On a smaller scale, this is a replica of that event,” Burgess says.
There are some key differences though.
Thanks to an arcane New Deal era law that allows the executive to mandate sector-specific pay hikes and bypass the state legislature, the findings of New York’s fast food wage board quickly became law. Pittsburgh’s wage committee lacks such authority.
But even more importantly, Pennsylvania bars individual cities from adopting their own minimum wages -- which means any minimum pay increases must come from the state legislature. Burgess hopes the hearings -- by “leveraging political support and goodwill” -- will pressure lawmakers in Harrisburg to consider a wage hike.
“I don’t think it’s just a state issue,” Burgess stresses. “It’s an employer-employee issue. I want everyone to embrace it.”
Labor groups, progressives and some economists have called for a $15 federal minimum wage. So has Democratic presidential contender Bernie Sanders (I-Vermont), who recently introduced a bill in Congress to that effect.
But the idea has also encountered pushback, including on the political left. Hillary Clinton, the Democratic front runner for 2016, has stopped short of backing a proposed $15 nationwide pay floor. The White House, too, has steered clear of $15, preferring a more modest $12 proposal instead. Princeton University economist Alan Krueger, former chairman of President Obama’s Council of Economic Advisers, recently penned a critical take in the New York Times.
“Although some high-wage cities and states could probably absorb a $15-an-hour minimum wage with little or no job loss,” he wrote, “it is far from clear that the same could be said for every state, city and town in the United States.”
UPDATE: 7:45 a.m. EDT -- The European Central Bank (ECB) has reportedly decided to keep interest rates unchanged, according to reports.
The central bank's 25-member governing council left the main refinancing rate at a record-low 0.05 percent Thursday, Bloomberg reported, adding that the deposit rate and the marginal lending rate also stayed at minus 0.2 percent and 0.3 percent, respectively.
Original story:
European stocks held steady Thursday as investors awaited the outcome of a European Central Bank meeting later in the day that could provide clarity on future stimulus measures.
"Watch out for hints of broader QE (quantitative easing) and whether further interest rate cuts may have been discussed," Commerzbank rates strategist Rainer Guntermann told Reuters. "Yet, the bar for a dovish surprise is high."
The pan-European STOXX 600 was up 0.3 percent after being down 0.11 percent while London’s FTSE 100 was down 0.06 percent. Germany’s DAX was up 0.29 percent, while France’s CAC 40 was down 0.04 percent.
Performance on the region's stock indexes was mixed ahead of the ECB's meeting despite uplifting economic data from France and Spain. While business confidence in France -- Europe’s second-largest economy -- climbed to a four-year high on growing demand for services and retail sales, unemployment in Spain fell to its lowest level since 2011 in the third quarter, Bloomberg reported.
In the U.S., rising stock futures pointed to a solid start to the day's trading. Futures on the S&P 500, Nasdaq and Dow Jones indexes were trading up between 0.3 percent and 0.4 percent as a number of major corporations are set to report quarterly earnings.
In China, the benchmark Shanghai Composite Index rose 1.45 percent, shrugging off Wednesday’s worst one-day fall in five weeks. The Nasdaq-style Chinext index was up 4.84 percent while the smaller Shenzhen Component Index was up 3.56 percent. The Shanghai Composite index has rebounded 10 percent in October, Bloomberg reported, amid expectations of stimulus measures from the Communist Party ahead of its fifth plenary session starting Oct. 26.
Elsewhere in Asia, markets were mostly down after disappointing U.S. earnings reports dented investor sentiment. Hong Kong's Hang Seng dropped 0.65 percent and Japan's Nikkei 225 was down 0.64 percent while South Korea's Kospi was down 0.98 percent. Australia's S&P/ASX 200 ended the day positive -- up 0.30 percent. India's BSE Sensex did not trade due to a state holiday.
LONDON -- Europe's top court has ruled that purchasing bitcoin through exchanges will not be subject to value added tax (VAT) in a decision that has far-reaching implications on the continent for the viability of the world's most popular cryptocurrency.
The European Court of Justice ruled Thursday that digital currencies like bitcoin should be treated in the same way as fiat currency and consumers should not be taxed when trying to buy or sell them. The Financial Times reports the ECJ said bitcoin transactions "are exempt from VAT under the provision concerning transactions relating to currency, bank notes and coins used as legal tender."
The ruling comes after its Advocate General Juliane Kokott published an opinion in July urging the court not to impose tax on bitcoin sales and purchases. "I therefore propose that the Court should reply...[that] these operations are exempt from tax under section 135, paragraph 1, point e) of the VAT Directive,” Kokott said.
The case was brought before the court after Swedish man David Hedqvist sought to set up a bitcoin exchange in his home country allowing people to buy and sell bitcoin using Swedish krona. The Swedish Tax Authority referred the issue of whether bitcoin exchanges should be tax exempt to the Court of Justice, asking clarification on two issues:
"Whether or not a service for remuneration rendered by a bitcoin (virtual currency) exchange can be treated as a VAT relevant service; and (2) in case the bitcoin (virtual currency) exchange service is VAT relevant, whether a VAT exemption can be applied.”
The second question has become a moot point after the court ruled that the bitcoin exchange is not a VAT-relevant service. The decision will be good news for the hundreds of bitcoin startups that have sprouted in Europe in the last couple of years. Until today, EU member states had come to their own decisions on the VAT-status of bitcoin, with Poland levying a 23 percent VAT and the UK making bitcoin trading exempt from VAT in a ruling in March.
Had the court decided bitcoin should be taxed, it could have had a negative impact on those companies' competitiveness. "From a strategic perspective, this decision, which appears to ensure virtual currencies will be seen as cash, should be an opportunity for emerging forms of financial services and FinTech to get a shot in the arm – bringing growth and consolidation" Jonathan Rogers, partner in the Financial Services Regulatory group at Taylor Wessing told International Business Times. 
Rogers added: "Greater clarity can now emerge in the debate about how to regulate virtual currencies, leading to increased credibility and consumer confidence; in turn, virtual currencies will have a much greater critical mass in the financial services system. This sector is always looking for greater certainty about how it should be treated for official purposes, so at first glance, this decision will probably be welcome."
Not everyone agrees with the ECJ ruling however. “Many with a vested interest in cryptocurrencies will be overjoyed by the ruling," Jens Bader, chief commercial officer of Secure Trading told International Business Times. "It is easy to see why an un-regulated currency not subject to sovereign states taxes is an enticing prospect. However, it is a shame to see the ECJ cave in on this issue, and for Bitcoin not to be held to universal VAT standards."
The problem, as Bader sees it, is that bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies are products not currencies, and should be taxed as such. "While we call it a 'currency', in fact bitcoin is a tradable commodity, like gold and silver. Where currencies come under a highly regulated framework, tradable goods do not, which means that their value is always in flux. The bottom line is that bitcoins are products attributed and traded for a value, and nothing more."
PARIS (Reuters) - Reforms carried out by the Greek government are on track and its creditors will disburse the next 3 billion euro ($3.4 billion) installment of its aid program, European Economics Commissioner Pierre Moscovici told French radio on Thursday.
"Greece has done a certain number of reforms, and we are going to give them money, 3 billion euros in all," Moscovici told Europe 1 radio.
"And in the course of November, December, we will deal with the issue of the recapitalization of Greek banks and Greek debt," he said.
"The Greek situation is on track as long as every one plays their part, which means carrying on with reforms for the Greek government, and having a constructive attitude for its partners,” Moscovici added.
Two former top executives at sports carmaker Porsche are set to go on trial Thursday in Stuttgart, Germany, on charges of market manipulation over their role in a failed takeover of Volkswagen (VW) in 2008, according to reports.
Prosecutors allege that former CEO Wendelin Wiedeking and former CFO Holger Haerter misled investors by denying a plan to take control of the much larger VW. Both men deny wrongdoing. If found guilty however, they may be fined or sentenced up to five years in jail, Bloomberg reported. 
The trial comes as VW, Porsche’s largest shareholder, faces massive penalties, global recalls and lawsuits over “defeat devices” that falsified emissions data in its diesel engine vehicles.
Plaintiffs in civil suits are seeking as much as 5 billion euros ($5.7 billion) in damages from Porsche, the Bloomberg report said. However, Porsche spokesman Frank Gaube said the allegations were unfounded.
Porsche’s ill-fated bid to buy VW
The trouble started seven years ago in Oct. 2008, when under Wiedeking, Porsche issued a statement saying that the company held 74.1 percent of VW and was seeking to acquire a 75 percent stake and control of the company. However, Porsche had allegedly secretly built up the stake in VW, using intermediaries to build up a controlling position.
The announcement caused VW’s stock to jump as short sellers raced to buy shares to repay borrowed stock in bets that VW would fall. As VW’s stock went up, profits from the manipulations soon exceeded Porsche's profits from carmaking, an unprecedented event in German business history, according to reports. 
However, in the fall of 2008, during the global financial crisis, banks refused Porsche further funds, drying up loans that Wiedeking and Haerter needed to finance the deal. The deal fell apart and VW ended up having to rescue Porsche, leaving behind only a holding company with the sports carmaker’s iconic name.
Porsche is still associated to the case as a related party and if the former executives are found guilty, it could have to forfeit any financial gains from the increased price of Volkswagen shares in 2008, Bloomberg said.
U.S. officials have launched an investigation to find out if Venezuela’s leaders used Petróleos de Venezuela (PdVSA), a state-owned oil and natural gas company, to embezzle billions of dollars through several schemes and kickbacks, the Wall Street Journal reported, citing sources familiar with the matter. The investigation comes despite Venezuelan officials repeatedly dismissing graft allegations as false claims from opposition parties working with the U.S. and other “foreign enemies” to overthrow the government.
The Journal report said that the authorities are also investigating if PdVSA and its foreign bank accounts were used for other illegal purposes, like black-market currency schemes and drug money laundering. No charges have been made public in the matter yet and the Journal stated there was a possibility of no charges being filed. Law enforcement officials in New York are reportedly talking to nearly six former senior officials to investigate the corruption allegations and are hoping to get cooperation from former Venezuelan energy minister Rafael Ramírez, who was ousted as president of PdVSA last year.
The Journal reported that earlier this month, a meeting to share witnesses and evidence, and to coordinate action, was held in Washington and it was attended in person or via teleconference by federal prosecutors from New York, Washington, Missouri and Texas. Officials from the Department of Homeland Security, the Drug Enforcement Administration, the Federal Bureau of Investigation and other agencies were also reportedly present at the meeting.
In 2006, the directors of a Spanish construction company secured a meeting with Ramírez to discuss plans to bid on an electric-power project by PdVSA. However, they were received by Diego Salazar, Ramírez’s cousin, who asked them to pay at least $150 million in kickbacks to be in the race, or “return to the airport.” The report added that while the Spanish company officials didn’t want the bid after the incident, several others were willing to pay.
The Journal report added that under Ramírez’s leadership, PdVSA transformed into an entity supporting former President Hugo Chávez’s socialist revolution from being one of the world’s most efficient oil companies. Sources who know Ramírez, currently Venezuela’s ambassador to the United Nations, told the Journal that he has collected massive amounts of wealth.
Venezuela's former energy minister Rafael Ramirez is seen attending 164th OPEC (Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries) meeting in Vienna, on Dec. 4, 2013. Photo: Getty Images/AFP/Alexander Klein
In March, the U.S. Treasury’s Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN) said that a bank called Banca Privada d’ Andorra (BPA) in Andorra, which lies between Spain and France, was being used as a hub for money-laundering by Venezuelan officials, and Russian and Chinese mobsters. The agency said that the bank had helped launder over $4 billion from Venezuela, of which $2 billion was “siphoned” from PdVSA. Andorran and Spanish authorities seized control over the bank and its Spanish counterpart, Banco Madrid, following the finding.
The report added that Ramírez, Salazar and others, who did business with PdVSA, are being investigated by Spanish authorities for possible money laundering. Controlling shareholders of BPA, meanwhile, sued FinCEN in Washington saying that there was no “legal or evidentiary basis to justify closing the bank.”
In May, Andorran authorities reportedly made an extensive document for the U.S. Justice Department and Venezuelan judicial authorities, asking them to help continue the probe into the BPA. The document, reviewed by the Journal, revealed suspicious transactions and Andorran authorities asked U.S. authorities to list out information on over a dozen people and companies, along with senior bankers from Venezuela, former officials from PdVSA, and the joint ventures that the oil giant had with foreign counterparts. The document also said that Salazar’s bank accounts in Andorra received hundreds of millions of dollars from many shell companies in Panama, Belize and the British Virgin Islands. The Journal cited the document to say that the money “presumably has a criminal origin in political corruption.” Salazar once allegedly bribed the Venezuelan police with $80,000 to ignore suspicious transactions.
The report alleged that in March 2012, Ramírez ordered PdVSA to take a bolivar-denominated credit line worth 17.9 billion bolivars, which was to be repaid in dollars, from a local firm that had hired one of his close acquaintances. The value of the credit line at the time of the loan was $4.16 billion with the exchange rate at 4.3 bolivars per dollar. But in a parallel market, the bolivars could be got for 9.3 per dollar. The lender could have obtained the loan for $1.92 billion, making a profit of over $2 billion. Investigators from Andorra had reportedly claimed that the loan was a “covert” foreign exchange deal, which helped his acquaintance make a commission of at least $70 million.
“I can tell you that there was a generalized system of corruption at the company,” a former PdVSA executive told the Journal, adding that investigators in New York “have everything—contracts and memos and emails.”
Apple Inc. aims to build 200 megawatts of solar power projects in China and work with local suppliers to cut its carbon footprint. The announcement is Apple’s second green initiative in six months as the company seeks to repair its image after harsh criticism over pollution from the company's Chinese supply chain. 
“Climate change is one of the great challenges of our time, and the time for action is now,” Apple CEO Tim Cook said in Beijing.
Apple said in April that it would build two 20 megawatts solar farms in Sichuan province, which is now complete, creating more than the total amount of electricity used by Apple’s offices and retail stores in China. 
As part of Wednesday's announcement, Apple’s largest Chinese supplier, Foxconn Technology Co. Ltd., said that it will build 400 megawatts of solar energy projects by 2018, starting in Henan province. Foxconn has committed to generate as much renewable energy as its Zhengzhou factory uses in final production of the iPhone, Apple said.
The program will avoid over 20 million tons of greenhouse gas emissions in China between now and 2020 and will significantly expand the company’s clean-energy investments in China. The new projects will collectively amount to a total of 2 gigawatts worth of solar power installations for Apple's Chinese factories, according to a company statement.
According to Reuters, the iPhone maker said it would buy about $850 million worth of power from a solar farm to cut its energy bill in its home state of California in February. Other Silicon Valley giants are also moving into renewable energy, including Google, which announced a new wind power investment in Kenya this week.
By Hideyuki Sano
TOKYO (Reuters) -- Asian shares were on the defensive on Thursday after a sharp fall in mainland Chinese shares rekindled worries about the health of China's economy while investors awaited word from the European Central Bank on its plans regarding additional stimulus.
MSCI's broadest index of Asia-Pacific shares outside Japan fell 0.3 percent in early trade while Japan's Nikkei dropped 0.5 percent.
Wall Street stocks also lost momentum, with the S&P 500 losing 0.6 percent despite earlier gains, failing to extend a rally since late last month beyond its 100-day moving average.
"I think the rebound in markets is coming to an end. From now, markets will be looking to policy events later this month as well as corporate earnings," said Hirokazu Kabeya, chief global strategist at Daiwa Securities.
The recovery in many share markets since last month has in fact been partly supported by hopes policymakers around the world may take steps to bolster their respective economies.
One such hope may be fulfilled in an event-packed period toward the end of month, starting with the European Central Bank holding its policy meeting later in the day.
ECB President Mario Draghi is widely expected to keep the door open for more monetary stimulus in the face of deflation risks, but is seen stopping short of taking new policy steps at Thursday's meeting.
The ECB meeting will be followed by central bank policy meetings in the U.S. and Japan, as well as four-day leadership meeting of China's Communist party, all planned for next week.
The Shanghai Composite stock index slumped 3 percent on Wednesday, its worst daily performance in five weeks after a relatively calm month, reminding investors that China's markets and economy are still far from stable.
That put fresh pressure on commodity-linked currencies and emerging market currencies.
Emerging market currencies from the Malaysian ringgit to the Chilean peso stepped back from recent highs.
Among major currencies, the Australian dollar tumbled to $0.7202 on Wednesday, its lowest in a week. The Canadian dollar fell to C$1.3149 per U.S. dollar on Thursday, its lowest in 2 1/2 weeks, as the Canadian central bank lowered its growth forecasts for 2016 and 2017.
The euro stood at $1.1342, barely moving this week ahead of the ECB's meeting. The yen was little changed at 119.88 to the dollar.
Oil prices fell to three-week lows as the U.S. government reported a bigger than expected build-up in crude oil stockpiles.
Brent futures dropped to a three-week low of $47.50 per barrel on Wednesday and last stood at $48.01.
U.S. crude futures fell to $44.86 a barrel, the lowest since Oct 2.
U.S. natural gas futures fell to a three-year low on Wednesday on forecasts for warmer weather over the next two weeks.
(Reporting by Hideyuki Sano; Editing by Eric Meijer)
A personal financial dispute was behind the shooting that left two Chinese consular officials dead and a Chinese consul general wounded Wednesday in Cebu, Phillipines, police said. The Chinese husband and wife arrested in connection with the crime have invoked diplomatic immunity, police said.
Li Qing Liang, the man identified as the gunman, and Guo Jing, his wife, who works in the consulate, remain under arrest until diplomatic immunity processes are completed, according to Senior Superintendent Rey Lyndon Lawas.
"Their fight was personal," Lawas told International Business Times in a phone interview. "They have a long-standing disagreement over money. It was clearly established it was financial." It wasn't clear if the dispute was with deputy consul Sun Shan or finance officer Li Hui, now both dead, or who allegedly owed money to whom, he said. Song Ronghua, the consul general in Cebu, was wounded but was in stable condition in a hospital, he said.The shooting occurred at a birthday lunch for a consular employees in a restaurant Wednesday afternoon. Li and Guo, who were identified by witnesses and through security camera footage, were arrested soon after.
Lawas said China's Manila consul general and a Philippine foreign affairs official met with the suspects Wednesday night and informed the police about their invoking special rights. Calls and an e-mail to Chinese officials in Manila and Cebu were unanswered. In a text message, Philippine foreign affairs spokesman Charles Jose said he was not authorized to comment "while consultations are ongoing.""They have invoked diplomatic immunity," Lawas said. "We prepared documents for the filing of the case but were informed by the consul general. We are awaiting final guidance. I was assured they will process at the soonest possible time."
Lawas said Li would have been charged with murder "because he already brought a gun. He had intentions."
By Barani Krishnan
NEW YORK (Reuters) -- Oil prices fell about 2 percent to three-week lows on Wednesday as the U.S. government reported a bigger build than expected in crude stockpiles, although significant drawdowns in gasoline and distillates prevented a steeper slide in crude futures.
U.S. crude oil inventories rose 8 million barrels last week, the government-run Energy Information Administration (EIA) said.
The build was more than double the 3.9 million barrels forecast by analysts in a Reuters poll. It was also above the 7.1 million build reported by industry group American Petroleum Institute.
Oil prices extended losses briefly on the build, but came off their lows on a drop of 1.5 million barrels in gasoline stocks also reported by the EIA. Stocks of distillates, which include diesel, fell by 2.6 million barrels.
The drop in gasoline and distillate stocks came despite a pickup in refinery runs, which should have translated to more products.
The Reuters poll had forecast an inventory decline of 900,000 barrels for gasoline and 1.3 million for distillates.
"The products draw is providing a bullish tilt to the market," said Matt Smith, analyst at energy consultancy and database Clipperdata.
U.S. crude settled down $1.09, or 2.4 percent, at $45.20 a barrel. It hit a three-week low of $44.86 earlier.
Global oil benchmark Brent finished down 86 cents, or 1.8 percent, at $47.85 a barrel, after hitting an early October low of $47.50.
Some analysts were skeptical of how much support gasoline could offer to crude. Gasoline prices settled up slightly after the EIA report.
"The bottom line is what's happening in products is more of a function of better cash markets, not a change in fundamentals," said Scott Shelton, energy broker and commodities specialist at ICAP.
Lagging oil demand from China was a bigger factor, veteran oil analyst Jim Ritterbusch said. "We still see a significant slowing in the Chinese growth path as a longer-term item that will eventually translate to a broad-based 'risk-off' environment."
Mercuria Chief Executive Marco Dunand said he expected only a modest price rise even if the oil market balanced or went into deficit in 2016 as non-OPEC producers reduced supply.
"By the end of next year, we might be more likely to be in a $55-type range, to $60 by 2017," Dunand told the Reuters Commodities Summit.
Torbjorn Tornqvist, chief executive at trading house Gunvor, said he did not expect the oil price to rise beyond normal volatility levels at least until mid-2016.
(Additional reporting by Amanda Cooper and Christopher Johnson in London and Keith Wallis in Singapore; Editing by Chris Reese, David Gregorio and Paul Simao)
In the lead-up to the historic United Nations Climate Change Conference in Paris in December, it’s not just national governments that have pledged to aim for a sustainable future -- 10 of the largest fossil fuel corporations in the world also have lined up behind the effort. Yet for the oil and gas industry, public acknowledgment of climate change hasn’t changed their rosy predictions of steadily rising demand for carbon-intensive energy.
In fact, companies like Exxon Mobil and Shell Oil have continued to project fossil fuel use that would push the world beyond the limits governments have pledged, and beyond what scientists predict the earth can handle. Now some are questioning whether these industry projections truly inform shareholders of future risks.
“They’re planning for a future of no action on climate change, which is not a reasonable assumption,” said Andrew Logan, director of the oil and gas program at the corporate sustainability nonprofit Ceres. “It’s a huge concern from the point of view of shareholders.”
According to a new report from U.K. energy finance group Carbon Tracker, industry projections may not account for possible shifts in fossil fuel demand arising from slower global growth, accelerating renewable technologies and political efforts to reduce emissions.
These projections rely on a straight-line approach to predicting future trends, the report said, while developments like innovation in solar energy could spark more dramatic systemwide transformations.
“They’re using the past to replicate the future,” said Luke Sussams, a co-author of the Carbon Tracker report.
Exxon Mobil, for instance, predicts that oil, gas and coal will predictably make up a smaller portion of world energy use by 2040 as renewable energy captures more of the market. But in aggregate terms, the company still sees demand surging 35 percent in the next 25 years, due largely to continued growth in emerging markets.
Demand estimates of companies like Exxon Mobil (orange line) far exceed projections that would keep the world from warming more than 2 degrees Celsius (green lines). Photo: Carbon Tracker
But if you factor in the commitments more than 100 nations have made to slash carbon dioxide output, Exxon Mobil easily overshoots predicted demand. The climate-action scenario would see humans emit 576 gigatons of carbon by 2030, a total that itself exceeds the 565-gigaton upper boundary scientists have set for staying below 2 degrees Celsius of warming.
By comparison, however, Exxon Mobil's predictions would see 596 gigatons of carbon emitted by 2030. For Shell Oil, those estimates range as high as 677 gigatons. In short, the companies haven’t treated emissions commitments as any sort of base case scenario.
“These companies aren’t challenging the status quo,” said Sussams.
But it’s not all about political challenges, the report said. Overall energy demand could fall short of expectations if global population fails to meet high-end estimates. Two leading projections of global population growth, for instance, see 900 million fewer people in the world by 2050 than the United Nations estimates.
Economic growth might also lag the sanguine expectations of energy companies. China has become a linchpin in energy companies’ growth predictions, but the country has sagged below growth projections in recent quarters and threatens to cool further.
“They are exceptionally dependent on China demand for oil and diesel,” Logan said. But with new traffic controls and anti-pollution measures to clean the smog-ridden urban areas, Logan said, “that just hasn’t come to pass.”
Renewable energies might also surge beyond fossil fuels faster than predictions have held. In a field where innovation comes in sudden bursts, it’s difficult to predict just when, or whether, electric cars and solar energy will become reliably cheaper than combustion engines and oil.
But already, renewable innovations have exceeded expectations. The International Energy Agency, for instance, has continually underestimated the future growth of installed solar panel capacity.
The International Energy Agency failed to predict the sharp rise in installed solar panel capacity. Photo: Carbon Tracker
And the cost of electric energy storage -- a crucial factor in renewable energy growth -- has also fallen far faster than industry estimates. Tesla’s release of its Powerwall storage system broke the $350-per-kilowatt price barrier for electricity storage that the broader fossil fuel industry thought wouldn't be reached for seven years.
Then there are the political headwinds to fossil fuel demand. World governments have been preparing for years for the upcoming COP21 climate conference in Paris. Climate negotiators and policy groups have thrown unprecedented weight behind the effort, seen as a last chance at keeping the earth from irreversible climate change.
Some oil companies have picked up on the momentum. Norway’s Statoil and the Anglo-Australian BHP Billiton have both produced scenarios by which the world could stay below 2 degrees Celsius of warming, and other companies have pledged to follow suit with similar models.
Yet no American companies have taken up the challenge.
In recent securities filings, Exxon Mobil has alerted shareholders of risks to future returns, including politically enforced emissions limits and the challenge posed by renewable energies. But in terms of its actions, Logan said, Exxon Mobil still shows an expectation of limitless demand, with recent forays deep into the Arctic and into pricey, carbon-intensive oil sands projects around the world.
Indeed, Exxon Mobil and its peers might have one historical constant on their side: the inability of bickering nations to make firm agreements on climate action.
“It’s reasonable for companies to think this may or may not come to pass because of the history of political inaction on the issue,” Logan said. “But planning on inaction seems like a bad bet.”
American Express Co, the world's largest credit card issuer, reported a quarterly profit that missed analysts' estimates as costs rose and a strong dollar ate into revenue from its international business. The company's net income attributable to common shareholders fell to $1.23 billion, or $1.24 per share, in the third quarter ended Sept. 30, from $1.47 billion, or $1.40 per share, a year earlier.
Analysts on average had expected earnings of $1.31 per share, according to Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S.
The New York company's shares fell about 2.6 percent to $74.50 in after-market trading on Wednesday.
Costs jumped 7 percent, adjusted for forex changes, due to higher customer rewards and increased spending on marketing and technology development ahead of the expiry of its contract with Costco Wholesale Corp in the United States next year, the company said.
The company's costs also rose due to the impact of certain previously renewed co-brand partnerships.
A strong dollar dragged down revenue from AmEx's international operations by about 11 percent to $1.24 billion, net of interest expense.
The average value of the dollar against a basket of currencies in the third quarter was about 17 percent higher than the same quarter last year.
Total revenue, net of interest expense, fell 1.3 percent to $8.19 billion.
Activist hedge fund ValueAct Capital Management LP has about a 1 percent stake in American Express. The fund played a key role in shaking up Microsoft Corp's management.
U.S. consumer spending grew briskly at 0.4 percent in August after an upwardly revised 0.4 percent rise in July, the Commerce Department said last month.
(Reporting By Sudarshan Varadhan in Bengaluru; Editing by Sriraj Kalluvila)
Shares of Tesla Motors Inc. (NASDAQ:TSLA) hit their lowest closing price in six months Wednesday, a day after Consumer Reports issued a sobering reliability report on the Model S electric car. In a bid to meet its 2015 sales goal of at least 50,000 vehicles, the Palo Alto, California, car company sweetened its referral program.
To deliver on its promise to Wall Street analysts, Tesla needs to deliver about 16,800 vehicles in the last three months of the year, up from its record 11,580 units sold in the July-September quarter.
Tesla announced on its website Wednesday that current vehicle owners who persuade five people to place orders by the end of October will get a Tesla Powerwall home energy-storage pack. The successful Tesla owners will also be invited to the ribbon-cutting ceremony of the battery “Gigafactory” east of Reno, Nevada. The date for the event has not been disclosed. Tesla will release its third-quarter earnings report on Nov. 3 after markets close.
The new incentive is part of the company’s referral program, announced in July, that offers discounts to new customers and the current Tesla car owners that refer them. Automakers boost incentives when they need to stimulate sales. But Tesla’s approach is characteristically unconventional. Instead of advertising low interest rates or rebates to customers, as seen in a typical car commercial, Tesla is recruiting its loyalists to act as unofficial sales reps.
The company’s stock closed down 1.38 percent Wednesday to $210.09, its lowest closing price since April 21, days before the company announced its new home and utility-scale batteries. Tesla’s shares are down by nearly 8 percent over the past 12 months. 

On Tuesday, Consumer Reports, a widely read U.S. product reviewer, said the Model S has “too many problems to recommend,” which led to one of the biggest selloffs in the company’s stock this year. 
Consumer Reports had given the Model S two stellar performance reviews, but in its follow-up on reliability it found a “worse-than-average” reliability rating. According to the report, owners have reported problems including leaky sunroofs, unresponsive windshield wipers and, more significantly, unreliable electric motors that have required replacement. On a lighter note, the review says Tesla customers have been very happy with the way the company has responded to these defects, fixing them quickly and at no charge.
Vehicle reliability over time is important to any automaker, but for Tesla it’s crucial.
The company offers a lease-buyback price guarantee through its financing program in partnership with US Bank and Wells Fargo. Under a complex accounting practice, Tesla’s future revenue is partially contingent on the resale value of the pre-owned cars the company takes back from lease customers.
“We are exposed to the risk that the vehicles’ resale value may be lower than our estimates and the volume of vehicles returned to us may be higher than our estimates, which could impact our future cash flows and/or profitability,” the company said in its last annual report on risks to its future revenue and profit.
Consumers are more likely to lease electric cars than buy them, according to a recent report from CNBC. If the Model S cars it has been selling turn out to have reliability problems, then Tesla could in the future be forced to sell its used cars at below expected prices.
Russia topped Saudi Arabia in sales of crude oil to China for the second time this year, Reuters reported Wednesday. But Saudi Arabia will still finish the year with more sales to China than Russia overall, as the two producers continue to compete for dominance in the emerging market.
China, with the largest economy in Asia and the second-largest in the world, is also the world's largest importer of crude oil, surpassing the United States in May. China bought a record 4.04 million metric tons, or approximately 988,000 barrels daily, from Russia in September, Bloomberg reported, up 42 percent from Russia's sales to China in September 2014. 
China has purchased record amounts of crude oil throughout the past year, as the price per barrel was kept low because of overproduction. Despite calls from some members hurt by low prices, the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries has refused to lower the oil ceiling in order to increase the price, saying demand will bounce back.
Russia races past Saudi Arabia to become biggest seller of crude to China https://t.co/XuRtxxQcaf pic.twitter.com/HTD04wS8jF
— Bloomberg Business (@business) October 21, 2015
The last time Russia beat Saudi Arabia in oil exports to China was in May, and a direct pipeline from Russia to China has contributed to the bump in sales, as transport was streamlined.
Saudi Arabia is one of the founding member states of OPEC, and it has competed with non-OPEC countries such as Russia for access to the world's emerging markets. “The biggest battle to supply oil to China is between Russia and Saudi,” Gao Jian, an analyst at Chinese energy consultant SCI International, told Bloomberg Wednesday. “Russia is gaining momentum with its pipeline and buying interest for its crude from teapot refineries.” 
UPDATE: 4:30 p.m. EDT: Valeant ended the day down more than 19 percent. The stock staged a rally following a mid-afternoon trading halt and a company statement rebutting allegations of impropriety. Hedge fund investor Bill Ackman, whose fund Pershing Square Capital holds a 5.7 percent stake in Valeant, doubled down on his long position with a 2 million share purchase, CNBC reported. 
In a subsequent statement, a Valeant spokesperson said, "Citron’s false and misleading statements about Valeant appear to be an attempt to manipulate the market in an effort to drive down Valeant’s stock price." The stock lost 19.37 percent, or $28.42, Wednesday to end the regular trading session at $118.32.
Original story:
Valeant Pharmaceuticals International Inc. took a beating in the markets early Wednesday after a short-selling firm released a report raising questions about the company's reported revenue and its ties to specialty pharmacies that sell its products. The firm, Citron, alleges that Valeant's supposed improprieties reach the level of "Enron Part Deux." As a short-seller, Citron has a financial interest in seeing Valeant's shares drop.
Trading of Valeant's stock was halted on the New York Stock Exchange after it fell nearly 40 percent Wednesday afternoon. Valeant issued a rebuttal to Citron, calling the accusations "erroneous."
The company, a darling to hedge fund investors like Bill Ackman, has come under withering scrutiny in recent months as politicians, including Hillary Clinton, have railed against skyrocketing drug prices. Last week, federal investigators subpoenaed the company over its distribution practices. 
At the heart of the recent allegations is the company's use of specialty pharmacies, which maintain distribution relationships with pharmaceuticals and streamline the process of charging high-priced drugs to insurance plans. Patients who are prescribed certain Valeant dermatological products, for instance, are directed to Philidor RX, a Philadelphia specialty pharmacy.
In a surprise to investors, Valeant CEO J. Michael Pearson revealed Monday that the company purchased an option to acquire Philidor last year. 
Citron found that Philidor shares nearly identical company documents with R&O, a pharmacy based in California. R&O recently sued Valeant over a $70 million invoice it received from the pharmaceutical giant. R&O claimed it had done no direct business with Valeant and that the company was "conspiring with other persons or entities to perpetuate a massive fraud against R&O and others."
In its report, Citron claimed the evidence indicated that Philidor RX owns R&O, both of which allegedly serve as "captive" companies in "a fraud to create invoices to deceive the auditors and book revenue."
In its statement, Valeant denied that it was using the companies to prop up its revenue. "Sales are recorded only when the product is dispensed to the patient," the statement read. "There is no sales benefit" from storing inventory at specialty pharmacies, the statement continued.
Among the irregularities raised by the Citron report were the nearly identical company privacy notices used by Philidor, R&O, and several other pharmacies. The companies also list the same telephone number for their respective privacy officers, and their websites were all created on May 12, 2015. 
The Citron allegations follow a report from journalist Roddy Boyd of the Southern Investigative Research Foundation, outlining the previously undisclosed relationship between Philidor and Valeant. The link between Valeant and R&O, the report asserted, was in fact Philidor. 
Citron's description of the alleged arrangement resembles the illegal practice of channel-stuffing, in which a corporations uses shell companies to receive shipments and book revenues, even if no real sales are occurring. On Wednesday, Valeant competitor Allergan --  issued a press release affirming that it "does not rely on specialty pharmacies." 
Adolfo Ich was killed because he didn't want Canadian mining companies to exploit his indigenous village in Guatemala, his wife claims. The school teacher and father of five was reportedly shot in 2009 while protesting outside a mine owned by Canadian mining giant HudBay Minerals.
"The days since my husband was killed have been very hard. There has been no justice. The man who killed Adolfo remains free. And the mining company has not been held accountable," Angelica Choc told human rights activists of the death. "We need justice for these losses."
Canada has for years grown its mighty mining empire in Latin America while largely ignoring global complaints of rampant violence, kidnapping, extortion and environmental damage at its lucrative gold, copper and coal mines. The harsh conditions have prompted rebukes from the United Nations, among other international organizations, which has slammed Canada for threatening indigenous people and economic development in nations including Guatemala, Peru, Mexico and Argentina.
But activists say they hope the surprise victory of the Liberal Party of Canada in the nation's hotly contested elections Monday will bring a new era of accountability for Canadian mining companies that have been accused of operating with immunity as Latin American governments have looked the other way. Prime Minister-elect Justin Trudeau has not directly addressed the alleged human rights violations associated with Canada's overseas mining activities, but he previously backed a 2010 anti-mining bill and his party has called for the creation of an independent ombudsman office to oversee Canadian companies operating abroad and investigate complaints made by indigenous communities.
A general view shows the open pit gold mine of Goldcorp in Penasquito Sept.18, 2012. Photo: REUTERS/MEXICO stringer
Canadian mining activity in Latin America has boomed in the past two decades, after the 1994 North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) paved the way for similar agreements to be forged with other countries for resource extraction. The companies now develop between 1,200 and 1,400 projects per year throughout Latin America, and Canadian overseas mining revenue in Latin America has been estimated at $18.7 billion. Overall, mining represented $54 billion of Canada’s $1.87 trillion gross domestic product in 2013.
But along with staggering profits, human rights complaints have also mounted as Canada has explored Latin America's resource-rich lands. Under the nearly decadelong tenure of Stephen Harper’s ruling Conservative government, Canadian mining corporations operating abroad, including in Argentina, Mexico and Guatemala, were accused of exploiting natural resources such as water, requiring workers to live in squalid conditions and work long hours with little pay, and stifling dissent from local indigenous communities. Global Witness, a Washington-based nonprofit that tracks natural resource exploitation, documented 760 killings of people involved in land and forest struggles in Latin America between 2002 and 2013. The Canadian government responded by encouraging companies to self-regulate and improve working conditions for their Latin American employees.
"They’re totally indifferent to what happens when the interests of the indigenous populations are infringed upon," said Larry Birn, director of the Council on Hemispheric Affairs, a Washington, D.C., think tank that has long been critical of Canadian mining companies such as Barrick Gold, Yamana Gold and Goldcorp for practices it's deemed exploitative and damaging to Latin American communities.
The controversy has threatened Canada's influential mining industry. Governments in Chile and El Salvador have vowed to limit or halt mining operations in recent years amid complaints of environmental damages, while parts of Argentina have banned open-pit mining due to pushback from organized communities. In Costa Rica, mining projects were also shut down because of complaints from indigenous communities. International and institutional investors, meanwhile, have warned that ongoing legal cases involving Canadian mines could expose investors to significant financial risks. Choc, for example, has sought $12 million from HudBay Minerals for employing the security guard accused of killing her husband.
“Latin America itself is under great pressure by the indigenous populations demanding that agreements and contracts be canceled because they border on violating environmental and traditional indigenous rights,” Birn said.
In this still image taken from video, a protester throws stones at a lorry containing mining production-related materials to passing through a road in Tinogasta, a mining district in the northern Argentine province of Catamarca Feb. 10, 2012. Police were dispersing the demonstrators who were marching in protest over the ecological impact of mining company La Alumbrera, the largest copper and gold deposit in Argentina and a joint venture between Canadian companies GoldCorp and Yamana Gold and Anglo-Swiss company Xstrata.  Photo: REUTERS/Reuters TV
Trudeau's Liberal party has expressed support for ensuring that Canadian mining, oil and gas corporations act according to international human rights standards, and included in its platform during the recent campaign a yearly $200 million commitment to supporting "innovation and the use of clean technologies" in the natural resource industry, including the mining sector. Trudeau also publicly touted the efforts of John McKay, a Liberal member of Parliament re-elected by his Toronto-area electoral district on Monday, in promoting a 2010 anti-mining bill that was ultimately defeated in the House of Commons.
McKay said this week he couldn't comment on the specifics of his party's plan to bring back a similar bill or otherwise address the mining companies abroad. But he expressed hope that the new government will help repair Canada's image abroad by more closely regulating mining operations.
"One of the clear takeaways from the election and the defeat of Mr. Harper was that Canadians had an almost cathartic reaction to [becoming free of ] Mr. Harper’s increasingly negative image of Canada," McKay said. "We have a herculean task to restore Canada’s international reputation."
Canadian Liberal Member of Parliament John McKay pictured in Ottawa, April 20, 2005. McKay has been lauded by the Liberals for his 2010 work on anti-mining bill C-300. Photo: REUTERS/Jim Young JY
Academics, too, have voiced their hope that the Liberal party's previous attempts to regulate extraction abroad will bode well for the incoming Trudeau government and its approach to mining in Latin America. Daviken Studnicki-Gizbert, a researcher at McGill University in Montreal investigating the ramifications of Canadian-based mining corporations throughout Latin America, said an independent, transparently run ombudsman office to ensure mining companies are held accountable for their operations is a crucial step forward in repairing Canadian-Latin American relations.
“Local rights, indigenous rights and just human rights are being violated,” he said. “I think it would benefit everyone in the industry, in the communities, our relationship with Latin America if we can turn to some organization and some office and say, ‘OK, what is the story here? Are there any violations happening?’ and have it actually be an independent and transparent office. I think that would do a huge amount of good."
A top regulator for U.S. markets is floating new rules for high-speed automated traders. In a speech Wednesday, Commodity Futures Trading Commission Chairman Timothy Massad laid out a raft of proposals that he said would reduce the risk that high-frequency trading poses to financial markets.
“In the near term, we are focused on looking at operational risks, and taking steps to minimize the potential for disruptions and other operational problems that may arise,” Massad said, indicating that he expects the agency to release proposals in the next month.
Massad cited financial disruptions that have shaken investors’ confidence in markets. On Oct. 15, 2014, for instance, the market for U.S. Treasury futures took a plunge so dramatic and unlikely that JPMorgan Chase CEO Jamie Dimon called it “an event that is supposed to happen only once in every 3 billion years or so.”
But it wasn’t just the that shock -- or the previous, marketwide “flash crash” of 2010 -- that have spurred regulators to action. In a study of five of the most deeply traded futures markets in the world, the CFTC found that 35 similar flash events had occurred in 2015, a higher rate than in years past.
Though market participants and researchers argue about how much responsibility high-frequency traders bear for such events, regulators have zeroed in on these lightning-fast computer-driven strategies as potential engines of disruption, especially when they malfunction. A Federal Reserve report after the 2014 events put automated trading at the top of the list of potential culprits.
Futures, regulated principally by the CFTC, are financial contracts that allow traders and speculators to hedge on the future prices of commodities and securities. Central to the operation of the financial system, futures markets provide big profits for the self-described market-makers that author Michael Lewis famously dubbed “Flash Boys.”
The proposal outlined Wednesday would create rules that mainly target “malfunctioning algorithms, inadequate testing of algos, errors and similar problems,” Massad said. “We are concerned about the potential for disruptive events and whether there are adequate measures to ensure effective compliance with risk controls and other requirements.”
He also mentioned the possibility of requiring “kill switches” that would shut off algorithms gone haywire, as well as limits to the size of orders traders can place.
Massad emphasized that the CFTC had not yet decided on a set of proposals. Should the agency release proposed rules, they would be subject to a monthslong comment period before possible adoption.
This story was updated at 4 p.m. EDT
U.S. stocks closed lower Wednesday, with the Dow Jones Industrial Average finishing lower for the second straight session as investors weighed a series of mixed corporate earnings. After seesawing in morning trading, the Dow gained roughly 90 points in afternoon trading as General Motors Company (NYSE:GM) rose nearly 6 percent after the automaker topped Wall Street's earnings forecasts.
However, equities turned lower after shares of Valeant Pharmaceuticals were halted after plunging nearly 40 percent, weighing on the Nasdaq’s biotech sector. Valeant’s stock tumbled following Citron Research’s report that questioned whether the company was the “Pharmaceutical Enron.” After being halted 1:30 p.m. EDT, the stock cut some of its losses after trading resumed about a half hour later, with shares dropping 19 percent to close at $118.32. 
Nine of the 10 sectors in the Standard & Poor's 500 index closed lower, led by losses in energy, material and healthcare stocks. 
The Dow Jones Industrial Average (INDEXDJX:.DJI) lost 49 points, or 0.3 percent, to close at 17,169. The Standard & Poor's 500 index (INDEXSP:.INX) edged down 12 points, or 0.6 percent, to end at 2,019. The Nasdaq composite (INDEXNASDAQ:.IXIC) fell 41 points, or 0.8 percent, to finish at 4,840.
Oil prices pared losses Wednesday after initially falling more than 2 percent on concerns of oversupply. West Texas Intermediate crude oil, the U.S. benchmark for oil prices, fell 2 percent to $45.30 per barrel for December delivery on the New York Mercantile Exchange. On the London ICE Futures Exchange, Brent crude, the global benchmark for oil prices, fell roughly 1.5 percent to $47.92.
The U.S. Energy Information Administration reported commercial crude inventories rose by 8 million barrels in the prior week to a total of 476.6 million barrels. The report contradicted a separate statement from American Petroleum Institute, which said Tuesday crude stockpiles rose 7.1 million barrels to 473 million barrels in the week to Oct. 16.
With no major economic releases scheduled for Wednesday, market professionals continued to eye third-quarter earnings from Boeing, Coca-Cola, General Motors and Baker Hughes.
Shares of General Motors Company (NYSE:GM) rose around 6 percent after the automaker topped Wall Street's earnings forecasts, saying it would achieve a 10 percent North American profit margin this year, a year faster than previously expected.
Meanwhile, Dow component The Coca-Cola Co. (NYSE:KO) traded mildly lower after the beverage company’s revenue fell short of forecasts, hurt by the effect of a strong U.S. dollar.
Yahoo! Inc. (NASDAQ:YHOO) announced Tuesday the company inked a search advertising deal with Google after reporting revenue and profit that fell short of estimates. The stock fell 5 percent in afternoon trading on Wednesday. 
David Vivero needed a doctor. The entrepreneur and former Zillow executive didn’t want just any doctor: He has hemochromatosis, a rare hereditary condition, and wanted to be sure the doctor he picked had the skills and experience to treat it.
But how, aside from patient reviews or the physician's stated specialties, would you know if the doctor specialized in genetic testing, for instance, or identifying gene mutations? Is there any way to find out how many procedures the doctor conducted in the past year? 
It’s in the insurance data.
So Vivero spent the past two years acquiring anonymized insurance claim data on 188 million patients and 900,000 doctors across the United States from at least a dozen public and private sources. On Tuesday he launched Amino, a free app meant to personalize the experience of finding a doctor. Users enter their location and their specific request and are shown a list of relevant doctors in the area, as well as the number of patients each doctor has treated for a certain injury or disease.
The records are primarily based on insurance claims, forms doctors fill out about each patient and send to the insurer for reimbursement. Claims may include demographic data (a patient's name, date of birth, sex, address and insurance plan number) along with the treating physician, the diagnosis, date of service, type of treatment, location of services and other sensitive information.
The ultimate goal, according to Vivero, is to replace the traditional method of asking friends and family to recommend a doctor.
“The trouble with that approach is that it's really about luck,” Amino said. “I had a condition and after 13 years I've still never had a conversation with anyone who has the same condition. Amino's role is to use a data-driven, personalized experience that's not encumbered by advertising.”
Amino maintains that its data is anonymized at the source, something Big Data companies do every day. It’s also possible the company is compiling records from public sources like clinical journals or academic research, according to Dennis Melamed, adjunct professor at Drexel University College of Medicine in Philadelphia and a longtime researcher on federal health regulation. 
"I am having trouble in seeing anything unusual in how data is being used once it's becoming available,” Melamed said. “Data is here, it's a new tool, and trying to identify doctors who are acquainted with what you have can be very difficult. I think the market for that is going to be huge.”
Privacy advocates are more concerned. It's incredibly difficult to re-identify data that has been anonymized, but it is possible, and only gets easier when a company obtains a larger dataset.
The problem, according to Dr. Deborah Peel, a physician and the founder of Patient Privacy Rights, is that Amino's business plan is based on a broken policy that makes it possible to sell and resell Americans' medical information without their authorization.
“We are paying them for a service (insurance to cover costs of health care) and 'give' them access to our health data to only pay claims - - i.e. we must sign 'blanket advance coerced consents' every year for all our health data to be released to the health insurer so that claims will be paid,” Peel said in an email. “Doctor's offices also require that we sign a release of all our records to pay claims – they want us to make sure they can send our data if it's required by the insurer to get paid.”
Amino has spent two years gathering data and raising $19.4 million from venture capital firms (Accel, CRV and others). The company would not disclose its data partners, but Vivero said Amino is the first service that will leverage the power of Big Data for the consumer's benefit.
Part of that benefit is no advertising. Around 900 medical conditions are listed on Amino, users don't need to pay to use it and it's impossible for doctors to boost their ranking by paying. Still, Vivero says the monetization strategy is still in development.
“The belief here at Amino is that information should be free,” he said. “We're going to be learning as we build our product, but our hope is to do what so many great Internet companies have done, which is to really understand and learn how people use or product and see if there are additional services that we can put on top that maybe consumers will be willing to pay for.”  
Global pledges to tackle climate change will drastically limit carbon emissions from the fuel and electricity sectors. The targets, put forth this year by more than 150 countries, could slow growth in energy related emissions to a relative crawl by 2030, the International Energy Agency said Wednesday.
Countries announced their climate plans as part of ongoing climate change negotiations. Each country’s Intended Nationally Determined Contributions (INDC) will form the backbone of a broader agreement that nations are expected to sign at the United Nations climate conference in Paris this December. The INDCs so far address nearly 90 percent of global greenhouse gas emissions, although several energy-producing nations, including Saudi Arabia and Nigeria, have yet to submit their own climate strategies for the conference.
“The fact that over 150 countries … have submitted pledges to reduce emissions is, in itself, remarkable,” Fatih Birol, executive director of the International Energy Agency, said in a Wednesday statement. The pledges, he added, “are helping to build the necessary political momentum around the globe to seal a successful agreement in Paris.”
If targets are met, then countries accounting for over half of global economic activity -- including the United States, China and European Union nations -- could see their energy-related emissions either plateau or begin to decline by 2030, the agency said in a Wednesday briefing. The electricity sector in particular could see emissions plateau at close to today’s levels, even as global electricity demand soars due to population increases and the world’s growing middle class.    Bubbles on this International Energy Agency map represent total energy-related carbon dioxide emissions, in gigatons (Gt). The share of these emissions covered by national climate pledges (INDCs) is shown in green; those that are not covered are shown in gray. Photo: International Energy Agency  Achieving these cuts will require energy companies and governments to invest roughly $13.5 trillion in energy efficiency and low-carbon technologies over the next 15 years, the energy organization estimated. In the power sector, 70 percent of new electricity generation by 2030 must come from low-carbon sources, including wind, solar, nuclear and hydropower.
Still, curbing energy-related emissions -- which account for about two-thirds of all emissions -- won’t be enough to prevent the world from experiencing potentially catastrophic levels of global warming, the International Energy Agency said in its report. U.N. negotiators are aiming to limit global average temperature rise to 2 degrees Celsius (3.6 degrees Fahrenheit) above pre-industrial levels, the point at which the most destructive effects of climate change -- including vanishing ice caps, major sea level rise and more extreme storms -- will be nearly inevitable, scientists say.
Yet some climate experts say reaching the 2-degree target shouldn’t be the only measure of success for the U.N. climate talks. Instead, the global agreement’s overarching purpose is to steer companies and governments toward a lower-carbon economy, Jennifer Morgan, global director of the World Resources Institute’s Climate Program, said during a panel discussion in early October. “Don’t load up the U.N. with solving a problem that can’t be solved by the U.N.,” she said.
Birol of the International Energy Agency similarly emphasized the role of negotiations in driving investments in low-carbon and efficient energy supplies.
“The energy industry needs a strong and clear signal from the Paris climate summit,” he said. “Failing to send this signal will push energy investments in the wrong direction, locking in unsustainable energy infrastructure for decades.”
San Francisco could become the largest city in the U.S. to pass an ordinance that allows bicyclists to roll through stop signs, if the coast is clear. That’s a controversial proposal being considered by leaders in a city that is the second most densely populated behind New York City.
The ordinance, if passed by the Board of Supervisors, would also present a significant wrinkle in San Francisco’s plan to reduce the number of fatal traffic-related accidents. The number of bicyclists killed in the city increased last year, even though traffic-related deaths were down overall, according to the Vision Zero Coalition, an national initiative to reduce injuries and deaths on city streets.
Cyclist groups in San Francisco overwhelmingly support the change in the bike law, which currently requires all bikers to halt at red lights and stop signs, according to the New York Times. Ahead of the proposed change, city law enforcement made good on a threat to crack down on cyclists who failed to stop at signs. Police issued 204 citations over two days in August, the Times reported.
In response, 100 cyclists showed up to a community meeting and officials agreed to suspend the crackdown. But supporters of the yield-to-stop signs law face another hurdle – the city’s mayor. Edwin Lee recently told the San Francisco Chronicle that he would veto the ordinance if the City Council adopted it. “I’m not willing to trade away safety for convenience,” Lee said.
City supervisors could override Lee’s veto, the Times reported. San Francisco would then join cities in Idaho and Colorado that already permit yield-to-stop signs.
“It feels like the Wild West because there are so many people in the city right now,” said Morgan Fitzgibbons, a San Francisco community activist who organized a bicyclist protest in support of the bike law. “People say, ‘You are so entitled,’” she said. “But if anyone is entitled, it is the drivers.”
 
Oil-rich Saudi Arabia could potentially run out the assets it needs to support spending if its government sticks with current policies, the International Monetary Fund said in a report released Wednesday. Gulf states have been hit hard with the plunge in oil prices and conflicts causing regional instability, prompting governments to evaluate their spending.
“Achieving fiscal stability over the medium term will be especially challenging given the need to create jobs for the more than 10 million people anticipated to be looking for work by 2020 in the region’s oil-exporting countries,” said IMF Middle East and Central Asia Department Director Masood Ahmed.
Bahrain and Oman, like Saudi Arabia, could also run out of financial assets needed to support spending. Kuwait, Qatar and the United Arab Emirates were better positioned for the next 20 years, the IMF said. Economic growth for the Middle East and Central Asia, which could pick up to 4 percent next year but would be contingent on regional conflicts and how sanctions on Iran are withdrawn, was projected to be low at 2.5 percent this year.
Conflicts in the region have caused large economic drops with Syria’s GDP falling between 45-60 percent and Yemen’s GDP down approximately 30 percent in the past year.
The IMF’s report pointed to the need for the region’s economic diversification away from oil as millions of people will enter the job market over the next few years.
“The key to resolving the challenge of absorbing millions of new job-market entrants expected over the next few years lies in accelerating economic diversification by creating incentives for private firms to expand activities that do not depend on government spending or oil,” Ahmed said.
Saudi officials have said they were planning spending cuts to address the country’s budget deficit, Bloomberg reported. The world’s largest oil exporter would survive the current plunge in oil prices as it had with past crises, they said. It was likely that Saudi Arabia would likely weather the storm, but if serious adjustments were not made in the next five to 10 years then the country could face great risk, experts warned.
The IMF, however, challenged whether the measures being considered by Gulf states would be adequate for the medium term.
Walmart’s website may now seem a little less patriotic than it has in recent years. An inquiry by the Federal Trade Commission has forced the retail giant to remove “Made in the U.S.A.” labels from much of its merchandise and from product descriptions on the site.
This is a big blow to the company’s image as an American workers-focused corporation, which it has been trying to bolster amid criticisms over its reputation as a responsible corporate citizen. Two years ago, Walmart began a 10-year plan to increase spending on products from U.S. factories by $250 billion, and it holds an  annual meeting on domestic manufacturing.
However, the watchdog nonprofit Truth in Advertising  issued a report in June saying it found more than 100 items that misled consumers with false “Made in the U.S.A.” labels. Some of the items were not actually made in the United States, and in other cases, the group said, it was not clear what the labels indicated.
After the report, the FTC launched an investigation, and on Tuesday the agency sent a letter to Walmart’s associate general counsel saying the inquiry was closed. This decision comes after Walmart removed the “Made in the U.S.A." logos from all product listings on its website, removed U.S.-origin claims in product descriptions and titles, removed country-of-origin information from all products except when required by law, and established a procedure to note and remove new U.S.-origin claims in ad copy submitted by suppliers.
The letter also says that, in response to the FTC investigation, Walmart redesigned the “Made in the U.S.A.” logos for its private-label items to include larger disclosures about how much of the product is made in the U.S. and that the U.S.-origin claim is self-certified by the manufacturing factory.
When the Truth in Advertising report came out over the summer, Walmart  told Fortune that “a small percentage of items” had incorrect “Made in the U.S.A.” labels due to coding errors. But the company sounds pretty happy with the FTC decision now.
"We are pleased with the FTC’s decision and appreciate its thorough review of our program," Walmart  said in a statement, according to the Washington Post. "We’re committed to reviewing and strengthening our processes to help ensure customers have a great experience on our website and can find the products and information they are looking for."
After 35 years, China’s one-child policy could soon change. The family planning policy, which has been relaxed in recent years, may be removed or replaced with a “two-child policy” in the country’s next five-year plan, which is due after a meeting of top officials later this month, according to Quartz.
Francis Cheung, head of China and Hong Kong strategy for brokerage firm CLSA, told Quartz the new plan will focus on several areas, including labor participation, investment and productivity, and it may include elimination of the one-child policy because of China’s aging population and waning work force. China’s top think tanks studied years of demographic data on the current fertility rate and recently released a report advising the government to “immediately drop” the one-child policy and implement a “two-child policy.” The advisers, which included the CASS Institute of Population and Labor Economy, the Population and Development Research Center of Renmin University of China and the China Population Development Research Center, expressed concerns over the nation’s low birth rate, employment profile and aging population, according to First Financial Daily newspaper in Shanghai.
China reached a population of 1.37 billion by the end of last year. If current trends continue, it is estimated to decline to 1.3 billion in 2050, according to Zhang Juwei, director of the Institute of Population and Labour Economics at the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences.
“These projections are part of the background reports we submitted for China’s leadership to consider when it designs its new national five-year plan,” Zhang told the Irish Times last week.
The birth rate on the mainland is 1.18 children for every couple, which is significantly lower than the global average of 2.5 children and the 1.7 average in developed countries. Several scholars have also called for the fertility restrictions to be relaxed.
"China has undergone a birth rate below the replacement level of 2.1 for 20 years straight. Its population will no doubt start to decrease in 10 years, even if the one-child policy is further relaxed immediately," Wang Feng, a demographer with the University of California, Irvine, and a guest professor at Fudan University, told the South China Morning Post of Hong Kong Wednesday.
In 1979, the Chinese government introduced the family planning policy requiring couples from China’s ethnic Han majority to have only one child. Ethnic minorities and some rural populations were largely exempt from the rule. The law was loosened slightly two years ago to allow more couples meeting certain requirements to have a second child. But the policy has remained largely unchanged for 35 years.
The German state of Lower Saxony has filed a criminal complaint against Volkswagen AG after it was discovered that a file, which included copies of internal government memos on the carmaker's ongoing emissions scandal, had gone missing. The file was last seen on Oct.9 and it was reported missing the following Monday by the company's staff, the Associated Press (AP) reported, citing Anke Poerksen, a spokeswoman for the state government.
Lower Saxony, whose governor is on the German automaker’s supervisory board, is reportedly a minority shareholder in the company, AP reported. Poerksen also reportedly said that the staff in the company had been questioned, but there were "no concrete results" to locate the file. A report by Reuters said that the file did not have any documents from the supervisory board, but had printouts and duplicates of documents along with in-house notes on legal questions surrounding the scandal.
The Volkswagen emissions scandal came to light after a research team from the University of West Virginia discovered that the diesel cars produced by the company were equipped with defeat devices, which could hide the actual amount of carbon emissions from the vehicle during emissions tests. The research team said that when the cars were on the road, they would emit up to 40 times the permissible limit.
Volkswagen has so far hired U.S. law firm Jones Day to conduct an internal investigation into the emissions scandal and has said that the process would take “at least several months.” The company also promised to create a new committee to handle the crisis.
Last month, the company admitted that nearly 11 million cars globally were affected due to the defeat devices. Police raided the company’s Paris headquarters were last Friday to probe the scandal. Other countries like Canada, China, Germany and the U.S. have also launched national probes into the crisis.
Analysts from Reuters suggested that the company could face fines and legal costs up to 35 billion euros ($40 billion) in the U.S. and Europe due to the scandal, which has led to the decline of a quarter of its market value.
The European Union said Wednesday Starbucks Corp. and Fiat Chrysler Automobiles NV received “illegal” selective tax advantages in the Netherlands and Luxembourg, respectively, and will have to pay back up to 30 million euros ($34 million) in taxes. The American coffee giant and the Italian automaker are the first two companies facing refund orders from the EU, which is cracking down on global companies evading taxes.
“Tax rulings that artificially reduce a company’s tax burden are not in line with EU state aid rules. They are illegal,” Margrethe Vestager, the EU competition commissioner, said in a statement. “All companies, big or small, multinational or not, should pay their fair share of tax.” 
The Netherlands and Luxembourg have been ordered to collect taxes from Starbucks and Fiat, respectively, in a bid to remove “unfair competitive advantage” and to “restore equal treatment” with companies in the same situations, the EU said in the statement.
Starbucks said it planned to appeal the decision, alleging that the union’s decision has errors -- an opinion shared by the Netherlands government, Bloomberg reported.
“The dispute between the European Commission and the Netherlands as to which OECD [Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development] rules we and others should follow could require us to pay about 20 million to 30 million euros on top of the $3 billion in global taxes we have paid over the seven years in question (2008-2014),” the company said, according to Bloomberg.
Fiat Chrysler denied receiving any tax benefit from Luxembourg and said a deal it reached with the country focused only on clarifying pricing rules and "did not result in any state aid."
However, the EU said Fiat's taxes would have been 20 times higher if calculations had been done at market conditions. It added that the commission was carrying out its inquiry into tax rulings practices in all EU member states.
“It cannot prejudge the opening of additional formal investigations into tax rulings if it has indications that EU state aid rules are not being complied with. Its existing formal investigations into tax rulings in Belgium, Ireland and Luxembourg are ongoing,” the European Commission said in the statement.
Profit-taking by traders hit Chinese markets Wednesday, dragging the Shanghai Composite Index down over 3 percent -- its biggest fall in over a month. Elsewhere in Asia, stock markets were mixed, and European bourses recovered from their early losses and traded slightly higher, while Wall Street was poised to open higher.
“The market has accumulated decent gains and faces resistance as the index approaches the 3,400 to 3,500 level,” Qian Qimin, an analyst at Shenwan Hongyuan Group Co. in Shanghai, told Bloomberg, referring to the drastic drop in the Shanghai Composite Index in afternoon trade. “Investors were waiting for opportunities to lock in profits and when there were signs of some profit-taking, others followed suit.”
The drop was much more pronounced in the smaller Shenzhen Composite Index, which slid nearly 6 percent. The rapid sell-off came just a day after the Shanghai Composite Index hit a two-month high, buoyed by hopes of fresh stimulus measures in Beijing.
Reports of the appointment of Fang Xinghai -- who has a reputation for being an advocate of opening China’s markets to foreign firms -- as vice chairman of China’s top securities watchdog also failed to calm investors, who pulled out of the technology and media sectors, which had gained steadily in recent days.
In Japan, the Nikkei 225 index finished 1.9 percent higher, as prospects of more stimulus from the Bank of Japan lifted investor sentiment. South Korea’s Kospi Composite Index ended the day up 0.2 percent, while India’s S&P BSE Sensex ended flat after a day of volatile trade.
In Europe, markets were dragged lower at the open Wednesday -- as investors exercised caution ahead of a European Central Bank meeting later this week -- before paring their losses and trading broadly higher.
The pan-European STOXX 600 was trading up 0.2 percent, London’s FTSE 100 rose 0.4 percent, while Germany’s DAX was up 0.8 percent and France’s CAC 40 rose 0.6 percent.
In the U.S., where the markets ended the previous day flat, Wall Street looked set to regain some momentum Wednesday. Futures for the S&P 500, Nasdaq and Dow Jones were all up nearly 0.4 percent.
HONG KONG -- All good things must come to an end: that's the lesson Bordeaux vintners are waking up to, with a heavy head. The 2000s were particularly fruitful for the makers of the world's most sought-after wines from the Bordeaux region of France. As China's economic growth exploded, the country's newly minted millionaires and billionaires took the conspicuous pursuit of luxury to new heights -- between 2001 and 2009, the market for Bordeaux and Bordeaux futures in China, Bordeaux’s largest export client, inflated to staggering proportions, as high-ranking Chinese government officials lubricated the passage of business deals with fine French wine.
But this decade of merrymaking has been followed by an epic hangover. China's recent economic decline, in conjunction with a government campaign against official corruption, has seen the Bordeaux bubble burst in spectacular style.
“Bordeaux futures is completely finished for the time being in China,” Tom Stopford-Sackville, of Hong Kong wine merchants Goedhuis & Co., told International Business Times.
A combination of a string of poor vintages between 2011 and 2013, mixed with high prices and the anti-corruption drive “pulled the rug from under the Chinese market," Justin Gibbs, sales and marketing director at Liv-Ex, an exchange for investment-grade wine, told IBT.
“[The drop in] Chinese demand was a major part of the shift in the market from 2009-2011 ... So while China was a big part of the drive up of the market, it has also been a major part of the collapse since,” he added.
The best example of the impact Chinese buyers had on the market during the boom was the 2008 Lafite Rothschild. The Lafite is regarded as a barometer of consumer sentiment in China by experts. According to Stopford-Sackville, “[The 2008 Lafite ] started life at GB£2,000 (U.S.$3,089) a case in 2009 and rose, in part because of the Chinese '8' symbol on the label, to GB£15,000 in 2011 (U.S.$23,167).”
In addition to buying wines for consumption, Chinese buyers were also market-making players in the world of Bordeaux En  Primeur, which is a form of futures contract allowing wine to be purchased while maturing in the barrel, and is commonly used by collectors and speculators to access wines that may never hit the open market.
Grapes growing in a vineyard owned by France's Domaine Barons de Rothschild (DBR), maker of the renowned Chateau Lafite reds, in Penglai, east China's Shandong province. Photo: Getty Images
Chinese demand for Bordeaux futures peaked with the release of the 2010 vintage in June 2011. While experts agreed the vintage was a particularly good one, astronomical prices meant that investors lost money, and those losses pushed many buyers out of the market.
En Primeur trading as a percentage of all Liv-Ex sales dropped from 15 percent when the 2009 vintage was released to 1 percent during the 2013 vintage campaign.
In addition, over the last two years, in-bottle prices for the finest Bordeaux vintages have continued to decline exponentially: The average price for Latour fell 22 percent, Lafite Rothschild fell 41 percent, Haut Brion 19 percent and Margaux 28 percent. On average, the top 64 Bordeaux wines declined in price by over 16 percent during the period, according to data from Liv-Ex.
While Liv-Ex data showed the 2014 En Primeur saw a doubling of demand on 2013, it is still 80 percent off peak by value, and experts told IBT there's no guarantee it will return for the 2015 vintage, which will be put up for sale next year.
Today, trade publications are reporting a modest growth in the volume of Bordeaux exports to China, in 2015, though they fell in value. Hong Kong wine merchants IBT spoke to, however, were skeptical and said that demand was steady, though at significantly reduced levels from the boom times. This can be attributed in part to increasing sophistication on the part of Chinese buyers and changes in consumer behavior resulting from the corruption crackdown.
“Consumption is far less conspicuous,” Sarah Heller, a Hong Kong-based journalist and independent wine commentator, explained. “[It is] generally restricted to private members' clubs rather than large banquets -- in fact, a number of businesses have popped up specifically to cater to the need for privacy and anonymity,” she added.
Ultimately, while Bordeaux's heritage will doubtless allow a certain level of Chinese demand to be maintained in the future, the market has changed utterly from just a few years ago. “The buyers have become more savvy, and one part of that is understanding what the prices are,” Stopford-Sackville said. “The reality is that wine buyers in China are diversifying their interests. There's an absolute broadening of demand outside the old favorites ... I think the younger buyers are keen to try out other parts of the wine rainbow.”
Goldman Sachs has sold its fund management unit in India to Reliance Capital Asset Management, joining a growing list of foreign fund managers streaming out of the country. Wednesday's 2.43 billion rupee ($37.5 million) all-cash deal would mark the sixth exit by a foreign fund manager from India since 2013. 
The news comes a day after the Economic Times reported that Japanese financial services major Nomura Holdings, Inc., intended to sell its stake in its mutual fund joint venture with Life Insurance Corporation, which runs India’s largest pension plan. Since 2013, top global banks and asset managers such as Morgan Stanley, Deutsche Bank, PineBridge, ING and Daiwa Capital Markets have moved out of the Indian mutual fund industry as they have struggled to make profits due to elevated costs of acquiring assets, according to the Economic Times.
"The problem with many foreign AMCs is their high cost structure and lower than expected returns," Jimmy Patel of Quantum Mutual Fund told the Economic Times. "The foreign AMCs have also failed to expand their reach and distribution." 
According to the Association of Mutual Funds in India (AMFI), an industry body, Goldman Sachs' mutual fund arm in India managed assets worth about 71 billion rupees (about $1.1 billion) in the July to September quarter. In comparison, the Reliance Capital mutual fund managed funds worth about 1.5 trillion rupees ($23.5 billion).
Challenges such as market volatility, new net-worth requirements and steep competition have put pressure on asset management companies in India’s 13 trillion rupee ($202 billion) mutual fund industry in recent years. Asset management companies in India are also required to invest their own money in all their open-ended plans in India, according to a report from Mint, a business daily.
UPDATE: 7 a.m. EDT -- Philippine police arrested a husband and wife for the shooting on Wednesday that left China's consul general to Cebu wounded and two members of his staff dead, Philippine Daily Inquirer reported. Now under custody are Li Qing Liang, whom security cameras showed exiting the crime scene after the shooting, and his wife, Gou Jing, the Inquirer said.
Original story: 
MANILA, Philippines -- China's consul general to Cebu, Philippines, was shot in a restaurant in the city Wednesday but appears to be out of danger, police said.
Song Ronghua is in "stable" condition in hospital, Police Colonel Marciano Batiancela told International Business Times in a phone interview. Two of his companions were killed in the shooting and the shooter is "under custody," he said.
Batiancela said the shooter is ethnic Chinese. The Philippine Daily Inquirer and other media identified him as Li Qing Ling. Batiancela said there is no known or suspected motive yet.
Toyota Motor Corp. announced Wednesday that it will recall about 6.5 million vehicles globally due to a power window malfunction that could potentially cause a fire. The models under recall include the Camry, Corolla, Highlander, Matrix, RAV4, Scion xB, Sequoia and Tundra.
About 2.7 million of the recalled vehicles were in North America, 1.2 million in Europe and 600,000 in Japan, the company said, according to Bloomberg. The vehicles were manufactured between January 2005 and August 2006, and August 2008 and June 2010 in Japan, Toyota reportedly said. Some of the recalled cars were also produced outside Japan between August 2005 and August 2006, and January 2009 and December 2010, the company added.
The power window glitch was a result of inconsistent lubrication on electrical contact points in the power window switch during the manufacturing process. The flaw can cause debris to accumulate, leading to short circuit, which can result in the switch assembly’s overheating and melting, possibly causing a fire, Toyota explained, according to Reuters.
An American customer complained to Toyota about a burn he sustained on the hand and the automaker also received 11 reports of the switch and door trim being burnt, Bloomberg reported. The company said its dealers will examine the switch and apply heat-resistant grease, a 45-minute process. The internal circuit board will then reportedly be replaced if the switch does not operate properly, the carmaker said.
Toyota officials in India could not be reached for comment when contacted by International Business Times.
Correction, Thursday,  12:30 a.m. EDT:   A previous version of this article said there are currently 7,500 users across all cab-hailing service providers in India during peak time. In actuality, Ola Cabs says it currently handles 7,500 users a minute in India during peak time.
BANGALORE, India -- Regulators in India's southern state of Karnataka, home to the country's technology hub of Bangalore, aim to regulate the fares charged by ride-hailing service providers such as Uber Technologies and local competitor Ola Cabs, according to a local media report Wednesday.
Transport authorities in the state see these fares -- which include peak-time surcharges that Uber calls surge pricing -- as "arbitrary," Bangalore Mirror reported, citing Ramegowda, Karnataka's commissioner for transport and road safety.
India's federal government recently released new guidelines that for the first time recognized the ride-hailing service providers as a marketplace that connects commuters with cabs. Both Uber and Ola welcomed the guidelines and said they were willing to work with India's many federal states on implementing them locally.
"Preparations are underway to issue an order monitoring app-based taxi aggregators," requiring the companies to register with the local transport authorities "as per the guidelines fixed by the central government," the transport commissioner told Bangalore Mirror.
The ride-hailing service companies will, however, be barred from charging fares other than those set by the local transport authorities, he added.
One of the main points of contention between the new-age service providers and government authorities in India -- as in many other parts of the world -- has been about the very nature of the business, in that they are not conventional taxi services. The cab-hailing service providers see themselves as a market-driven exchange where prices get decided on the basis of demand and supply.
Transport authorities in places like New York or Singapore have moved to encourage that model, but with some riders, Jaspal Singh, co-founder of Valoriser Consultants, a New Delhi-based independent transport sector consultancy, told International Business Times in a phone interview on Wednesday.
"These are not arbitrary prices, but a dynamic pricing mechanism that is an international practice," Singh said. "New York allows surge pricing, but not during emergencies -- like a snow storm -- and Singapore only regulates the quality of cab services," and not the pricing or the number of cabs on the road, he said.
"It will take some time for Indian authorities also to adopt some of these practices," he added. Conventional radio taxis, or even India's auto-rickshaws are allowed to charge night-time rates that are higher than regular rates as an incentive for them to operate during late hours.
"Ola has observed that during certain times of the day, when more traffic is on road, routine drivers tend to log out of the system to suit their convenience as there is no incentive for them to put in extra effort," the Bangalore-based ride-hailing company, India's biggest by far, says on its website. Similarly, when demand suddenly increases, not enough drivers might be available on the road, inconveniencing some customers, Ola says.
"Ola has observed that the drivers are very sensitive to a little extra earnings for their extra effort to stay logged in to our system."
Transport consultant Singh adds that such practices can be regulated, but in a manner that benefits both the users of the cab-hailing apps -- comprising the millions of Indian commuters who are beginning to rely on these services -- and the companies.
Five-year-old Ola has served over 150 million cumulative bookings on its platform to date, and sees over 1 million daily booking requests, the company said in a press release Monday. Ola Cabs says it currently handles 7,500 users a minute in India during peak time and expects to be able to handle 3 million booking requests a day by April 2016.
Uber, which sees India as one of its biggest and fastest-growing markets outside the U.S., projects it will reach a million requests a day by 2016.
Credit Suisse Group AG announced Wednesday that it will raise approximately 6 billion Swiss francs ($6.3 billion) in new capital as part of a massive strategic overhaul. The announcement was timed to coincide with the release of the company’s third-quarter results, which failed to meet analysts’ expectations.
The Zurich-based bank said it will sell 1.35 billion francs ($1.4 billion) of stock to select shareholders and offer 4.7 billion francs ($4.9 billion) to existing investors in a rights offer. Credit Suisse also plans to save 3.5 billion francs ($3.6 billion) by the end of 2018. Additionally, Credit Suisse also announced a raft of changes, including changes to the top management, naming six new board members, and a partial flotation of its Swiss Universal Bank by 2017.
“I am confident that today marks the beginning of an exciting chapter in the evolution of this historic and important institution for Switzerland,” Tidjane Thiam, who took over as the company’s CEO in July, said, in a statement. “The strengthening of our capital position today will allow us to be in control of our own destiny.”
Credit Suisse reported a decline in third-quarter profits of 24 percent from a year earlier -- a sharper-than-expected drop. Net income attributable to shareholders fell to 779 million Swiss francs ($815.3 million) in the quarter ending Sept. 30, from 1.025 billion francs ($1.07 billion) reported in the previous year. Earnings per share fell to 0.45 franc from 0.61 franc last year. Additionally, the company also reported a 31 percent decline in pre-tax profit at its private banking and wealth management unit.
Credit Suisse is just one of many global lenders facing the impact of adverse market conditions. Last week, several large U.S. banks posted a series of dismal results in the September quarter as uncertainties over the timing of a rate hike in the U.S. and the health of China’s economy hurt profits.
BANGALORE, India -- Indian drugmaker Biocon Ltd. reported a three-fold jump in second-quarter profit Tuesday, largely augmented by a one-time gain of 2.03 billion rupees ($31.15 million) from the public listing of its research services unit Syngene.
The company said consolidated revenue rose over 11 percent to 8.28 billion rupees (about $127 million) in the second quarter on higher demand for its research services from global pharmaceutical companies. Biocon’s contract research business accounts for about 26 percent of its annual revenue.
Terming it a “stable performance,” Chairman and Managing Director Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw said the company also continues to focus on developing biosimilars -- copies of biological medicines that involve costly genetic engineering, but are expected to have a large market in the coming years -- in emerging markets. The company is in the process of developing several biosimilar drugs, including for cancer and diabetes.
Mazumdar-Shaw said that five of the company’s biosimilars programs are on track for regulatory filings in the U.S. and Europe in the 2017 financial year. The expansion of its biosimilars facility in the southern Indian city of Bangalore is also on track for regulatory clearances in the 2018 financial year, Mazumdar-Shaw added in a statement Tuesday.  
Biocon, which is partnering with Mylan Inc. to develop four biosimilar molecules, said it made good clinical progress in the second quarter.
The global biosimilars market is predicted to reach sales of $25 billion by 2020, according to a 2014 Thomson Reuters report. However, the high cost of development and stringent regulatory processes have slowed the progress of Indian companies in lucrative Western markets. Only three Indian companies -- Biocon, Dr Reddy’s Laboratories Ltd. and Intas Pharamceuticals Ltd. -- are currently working on developing biosimilars.
"Biosimilars is a big opportunity," Sujay Shetty, leader of the life sciences practice at PricewaterhouseCoopers India told Reuters. "But unlike generics, it is not yet an opportunity (for Indian companies) in the U.S."
Japan exports stagnated in September as China's economy slowed, raising speculation of recession and a central bank move to boost growth when it meets next month. Japanese and other Asian stocks rose as investors bet on stimulus.
Japanese exports rose just 0.6 percent to 6.4 trillion yen ($53 billion) from the year before, according to the Ministry of Finance. That's the smallest increase since August 2014 and a fraction of the 3.4 percent gain economists had estimated, according to Reuters. Exports to China, Japan's second-biggest market after the United States, fell 3.5 percent to 1.1 trillion yen ($9 billion), the ministry said.
“Whenever we get negative economic news, hopes for additional monetary easing moves the market,” Takashi Aoki, a Tokyo-based fund manager at Mizuho Asset Management Co., told Bloomberg. “We’re starting to see hard evidence for our fears about the global economy being weak.”
Weak September exports may have resulted in a third-quarter economic contraction of an annualized 0.5 percent in July-September, Reuters cited Koya Miyamae, a senior economist at SMBC Nikko Securities, as saying. That would mean Japan is in recession, after the economy shrank 0.3 percent in the second quarter.
Additional stimulus in the Bank of Japan's Oct. 30 meeting isn't a sure bet: Governor Haruhiko Kuroda says the economy is healthy. The bank has kept policy steady since October last year, when it expanded its stimulus program. The third-quarter GDP report will only be released on Nov. 16.
The sports network ESPN will reportedly inform employees Wednesday about massive layoffs, according to a person with knowledge of the plan, CNNMoney reported Tuesday night. The cutbacks would come during a time of rising programming costs and loss of viewers for the network.  
The job cuts reportedly will affect as many as 350 employees, or 4.3 percent of the 8,000 positions at the network, Bloomberg reported. Walt Disney Co., the parent company of ESPN, had announced in August that its earnings won’t meet company forecasts due to subscriber losses and currency translation, and soon afterward layoff rumors began circulating.  
ESPN Layoffs Begin Tomorrow: 350 Employees, Six-Figure Earners https://t.co/tx8Xv0474W
&mdash; The Big Lead (@thebiglead) October 21, 2015

“ESPN has historically embraced evolving technology to smartly navigate our business,” the company said in a statement last month when plans for job cuts were reported by thebiglead.com, Bloomberg reported. “Any organizational changes will be announced directly to our employees if and when appropriate.”
Earlier this year, ESPN cut ties with on-air commentators Bill Simmons and Keith Olbermann.  
Russia is sending two amphibious water-bombing planes to help Indonesia fight forest fires that have spread a "haze" over neighboring countries.
The Beriev Be-200s were scheduled to arrive Wednesday in Palembang, a city on Sumatra island, the Jakarta Post reported, citing the National Disaster Mitigation Agency. The planes can scoop 12,000 liters of water from rivers, lakes or the sea and dump it over the fires.
Russia is taking over from Malaysia and Australia, which have ended their five-day missions, the Post said. Ten Indonesian aircraft and one from Singapore continue to conduct water-bombing and rain-inducing operations.
Malaysia and Singapore have had to cancel classes, sporting events and other activities because of the haze, which occurs every year as palm oil growers and paper manufacturers use fire to clear forests to plant more trees. It's blamed for respiratory illnesses and for harming tourism in beach resorts like Phuket. It's now reached the southern Philippines, the Rappler news website reported, citing that country's weather agency.
This year's haze could be among the worst, Time and other media have reported a NASA scientist as saying. Indonesian President Joko Widodo has said it could take three years before efforts to curtail the forest burning have an impact. After earlier refusing help, he asked Malaysia, South Korea, China, Australia, Japan and Russia this month for assistance.
SYDNEY (Reuters) -- Asian equities got off to a sluggish start on Wednesday as concerns about corporate earnings hobbled Wall Street while investors counted down to the European Central Bank's policy meeting later in the week.
MSCI's broadest index of Asia-Pacific shares outside Japan drifted off 0.07 percent. Australian stocks lost 0.2 percent as worries about China weighed on commodity prices.
There was little in the way of a lead from Wall Street where the Dow ended Tuesday 0.1 percent lower, while the S&P 500 eased 0.14 percent and the Nasdaq 0.5 percent.
The S&P healthcare sector shed 1.5 percent, dragged by Allergan and Pfizer, while a drop in IBM offset gains in companies that reported strong quarterly results such as Verizon and United Technologies.
Earnings for S&P 500 companies are expected to have fallen about 4 percent in the third quarter, while revenue is expected to have declined 3.8 percent, according to Thomson Reuters data.
Economic news from the United States was moderately upbeat as housing starts increased 6.5 percent in September to an annual pace of 1.21 million units, beating expectations for 1.15 million units.
There was also better news on bank lending in the euro zone as data from the ECB showed a further easing in credit conditions and improving demand for loans.
That might lessen the need for the ECB to immediately ramp up its 1 trillion euro asset purchase program.
The ECB's governing council meets on Thursday and markets expect it to highlight a willingness to act to boost inflation, but not just yet.
"The general consensus is that the ECB has been trying to moderate expectations this week, suggesting it's too early for discussion around extending the current QE program," said analysts at Citi.
The euro was steady at $1.1351, hemmed in by support at $1.3300 and resistance around $1.1386. The dollar index, which measures the greenback against a basket of six major currencies, was last down a shade at 94.855.
The New Zealand dollar hit a one-week low of $0.6737 after a disappointing global dairy auction saw prices for the country's single largest export fall 3.1 percent.
Oil prices softened on speculation U.S. inventory data would only underline the extent of oversupply in the world. The U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA) will report official inventory data on Wednesday.
U.S. crude was off 40 cents at $45.89 per barrel.
(Reporting by Wayne Cole; Editing by Eric Meijer)
By Meredith Davis
Motorcycle manufacturer Harley-Davidson Inc. on Tuesday posted lower quarterly earnings, reduced profit guidance and said it planned to eliminate jobs, sending the company's shares to a two-year low.
"The marketplace has thrown us some curveballs this year,"chief executive Matt Levatich, said after the company reported weaker sales and earnings that fell below analysts' guidance.
Harley-Davidson said it plans to incur a one-time charge of $30 million to $35 million in the fourth quarter for a reorganization and job cuts which would increase funding for marketing and product redevelopment.
The company's shares plummeted nearly 15 percent to their lowest since June 2013, as its earnings fell below analysts' forecasts.
Harley-Davidson also cut its 2015 operating profit margin to 16 percent to 17 percent for the motorcycles segment from 18 percent to 19 percent.
"We faced our own headwinds including limited product availability and voluntary recalls, Levatich said.
After experiencing two recalls in the middle of the quarter the company has seen $32 million in recall expenses so far this year, company executives said on the conference call.
Harley-Davidson is traditionally a market leader is the United States, but with domestic sales lagging the company has lost market share as foreign competitors lowered prices to entice new buyers. The company's U.S. market share fell by 3.9 percentage points to 52.4 percent in the third quarter compared with a year ago.
Global sales fell by more than 1 percent, hit by a 2.5 percent fall in the United States but cushioned by a 0.9 increase in foreign sales, and the company said its reorganization plans included opening up to 200 new dealerships abroad by 2020.
Additionally, the strong U.S. dollar has translated into softer overseas sales due to the unfavorable foreign exchange rate.
The Milwaukee, Wisconsin manufacturer revised its 2015 shipment outlook down to 265,000 to 270,000 which is flat to 2 percent lower than in 2014. The latest shipment projection was revised downward from previous guidance of 276,000 to 281,000.
The Milwaukee-based motorcycle maker reported a net income of $140.3 million, down about 6.5 percent from $150.1 million from a year earlier.
Diluted earnings per share were 69 cents per share in the third quarter, the same as a year earlier.
Analysts had expected earnings per share for the quarter of 78 cents per share.
(Reporting By Meredith Davis Editing by W Simon)
By Nate Raymond
(Reuters) -- Sony Pictures Entertainment Inc has agreed to pay up to $8 million to resolve a lawsuit by employees who claimed their personal data was stolen in a 2014 hacking tied to the studio's release of a comedy set in North Korea, "The Interview."
The settlement with the Sony Corp unit and current and former employees was disclosed in papers filed on Monday in federal court in Los Angeles.
Under the deal, Sony will pay up to $2.5 million, or $10,000 per person, to reimburse employees for identity theft losses and up to $2 million, or $1,000 per person, to reimburse them for protective measures they took after the cyber attack.
Sony has also agreed to pay up to $3.49 million to cover legal fees and costs, according to court papers. The settlement must be approved by U.S. District Judge Gary Klausner.
Neither Sony nor a lawyer for the plaintiffs immediately responded to requests for comment on Tuesday.
"The Interview" starred Seth Rogen and James Franco, and depicted the fictional assassination of North Korean leader Kim Jong Un.
Sony shelved the movie's wide theatrical release after the hacking, which surfaced in November and drew international attention. It later offered the movie through digital downloads.
The attack, for which U.S. officials blamed North Korean hackers, wiped out massive amounts of data and led to the online distribution of email, sensitive employee data and pirated copies of new movies.
The lawsuit was filed soon after by former employees who contended Sony's negligence caused them economic harm by forcing them to beef up credit monitoring to address their greater risk of identity theft.
They also said the data breach was an "epic nightmare" for them and thousands of former colleagues.
In June, Klausner rejected Sony's bid to dismiss the lawsuit, saying the employees could pursue their claims that Sony was negligent and violated a California confidentiality law.
The case is Corona et al v. Sony Pictures Entertainment Inc, U.S. District Court, Central District of California, No. 14-09600.
CHICAGO (Reuters) -- Sandwich chain Subway will start serving antibiotic-free chicken and turkey at its U.S. restaurants next year, and within the next nine years will stop selling any meat from animals given antibiotics, the company said on Tuesday.
Competitors such as Chipotle Mexican Grill Inc and McDonald's Corp have announced similar supply-chain shifts, adding pressure on U.S. livestock producers to cut human antibiotics from their beef, hogs and poultry production. Advocacy groups said they were about to present Subway with a petition demanding the company set a timeline for its restaurants to stop serving meat from animals that had been treated with antibiotics.
Subway said customers would be able to start buying chicken raised without antibiotics at its more than 27,000 fast-food restaurants starting in March. The company did not state when antibiotic-free turkey would become available.
By 2018 it expects to shift all chicken and turkey supplies to antibiotic-free meats. The company said that within six years after that, it would begin serving pork and beef only from animals raised without antibiotics.
"A change like this will take some time, particularly since the supply of beef raised without antibiotics in the U.S. is extremely limited and cattle take significantly longer to raise," said Dennis Clabby, executive vice president of Subway's independent purchasing cooperative. "But, we are working diligently with our suppliers to make it happen."
Subway's plan is one of the most aggressive by the food sector to reduce use of antibiotics in meat production. The Natural Resources Defense Council and U.S. Public Interest Research Group said they and other groups were about to deliver a petition with nearly 300,000 signatures calling for a concrete timeline for such action.
Subway said in an emailed response for comment that Tuesday's announcement was "the culmination of several months of intensive work with our suppliers."
Public health experts and federal regulators have long been concerned that routine feeding of antibiotics to animals could lead to antibiotic-resistant superbugs, a health hazard for humans. Finding enough protein raised in the United States without such drugs has been a challenge for food companies.
McDonald's Corp has said it plans to buy only chicken raised without antibiotics important to human medicine by 2017 for its U.S. restaurants. Dunkin' Donuts will prohibit suppliers from using medically important antibiotics or antimicrobials in healthy animals, but has given no timeline.
(Reporting by P.J. Huffstutter; editing by David Gregorio)
Canada's Prime Minister-designate Justin Trudeau is being hailed as someone who can change the country’s direction on environmental issues, which could spell trouble for supporters of the long-stalled Keystone XL pipeline. Although Trudeau’s Liberal Party supports the Keystone project, it wants more environmental oversight and has other priorities that might allow U.S. President Barack Obama to take control of the pipeline’s future.
“There is an opportunity for this Liberal majority to press a reset button and move forward on a more responsible path," Anthony Swift, director of the Natural Resources Defense Council’s Canada program, said. 
After a decade of rule by Stephen Harper of the Conservative Party, environmentalists in Canada are largely excited by the Liberal Party’s victory Monday night in the nation's closely watched elections. The Liberals have promised to reject the Northern Gateway Pipeline project in British Columbia, which faces strong opposition from local residents over environmental concerns, and to reform the regulatory processes that govern the approval of future pipelines and those currently in the works. Trudeau has talked about reducing carbon emissions -- something Harper rarely did -- and has said he will attend a global climate summit in Paris this winter. Liberals have also promised to review  environmental laws that were weakened under Harper’s government, with the goal of reinstating portions of the laws that were removed. 
Trudeau, however, does have a  history with Keystone XL. He traveled to Washington in 2013 to support legislation that would have approved the pipeline, and his campaign co-manager David Gagnier stepped down last week after it came out that he had written a letter to TransCanada, the company behind the Keystone XL pipeline, to give officials lobbying advice.
Still, some environmentalists who like Trudeau’s other policies hope he will change his mind about supporting Keystone XL. Trudeau said during his campaign that he hoped to have a better relationship with the president than Harper did, and this focus on playing nice could mark the death of the Keystone XL pipeline.
“We still expect an imminent rejection of Keystone XL by the U.S. president. I don’t think our new government would have too strong a reaction around the rejection,” said Adam Scott, climate and energy program manager for Environmental Defence Canada, an environmental action organization. “The Liberals did have some soft support for the pipeline in their platform, but that’s typically standard of most politicians in Canada because people want to support the oil industries.”
The Keystone pipeline would transport 830,000 barrels per day of diluted bitumen from Alberta, Canada, to U.S. oil refineries. Proponents of Keystone XL have said it would create thousands of jobs and provide energy security, while environmentalists are concerned that mining the tar sands requires a significant amount of energy and say the project would increase greenhouse gas emissions.
Demonstrators hold signs protesting the proposed Keystone XL pipeline, outside the White House in Washington, Jan. 28, 2015.  Photo: Nicholas Kamm/AFP/Getty Images
Harper has been a strong proponent of the Keystone XL pipeline and was known for ignoring environmental efforts during his tenure. He said he would not “take no for an answer” from Obama on Keystone XL, and  the tension was said to have hurt U.S.-Canada relations.
There have been signs for years that Obama is lukewarm at best on Keystone XL, and in recent months, many have expected the president to reject the pipeline any day. In 2013, he said he did not want the project to increase greenhouse gas emissions, the  Los Angeles Times reported, and this year, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency told the U.S. State Department that Keystone XL could lead to more greenhouse gases and that tar sands transported through the pipeline would represent “a significant increase in greenhouse gas emissions” over traditional crude oil.
U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry said Tuesday that the U.S. will make a decision on the pipeline independent of Canada. “The decision on Keystone is being based on the merits and on the countervailing balance of all the input that has come from a very exhaustive agency review,” he said at a forum on climate and clean energy in Washington. “It’ll get done in its appropriate moment, but I would like to see it done as fast as possible.”
While many Canadian politicians support Keystone, that support is split along ideological lines in the U.S. Republicans  strongly favor building the pipeline as a way to secure national energy resources, while the leading Democratic presidential candidates, Hillary Clinton and Sen. Bernie Sanders, have come out against it.
Generally, Canadians are less opposed to the Keystone XL project than those in the U.S. because in Canada, it would go through more industrialized areas than it would in the States. For example, TransCanada has had trouble with a  Nebraska state law it wanted to use to take property by eminent domain. The company decided last month to apply for a permit through a different process with the Nebraska Public Service Commission.

For those in Canada who have long opposed the pipeline project, however, Trudeau’s openness to considering new environmental policy ideas is a sign of a broader change in Canada’s environmental future.
“The policies in the Liberal Party are vastly different from Stephen Harper,” said Kate Neville, an assistant professor of political science who focuses on environmental policy at the University of Toronto. “If Liberals are true to their word in working across party lines, we could see major improvement.”
The third quarter of 2015 erased the greatest amount of wealth from hedge fund industry accounts since the financial crisis hit in 2008. Total capital under hedge fund management shrank by $95 billion amid global market turmoil stemming from a slowdown in China and continued uneasiness over U.S. interest rates, Hedge Fund Research said. 
Worldwide, the industry still holds nearly $2.9 trillion in assets for rich investors, pension funds and university endowments hoping for an edge in financial markets. The decline in total assets during the July-September period was driven principally by the sagging values of hedge fund investments. The HFR index of hedge fund performance fell 3.9 percent in the quarter, compared with a 6.4 percent decline in the S&P 500 in the same period. 
In the three-month period of market volatility, investors pulled $42 billion out of hedge fund holdings, but the outflows were more than offset by $48 billion of inflows. Unlike mutual funds and other investments, most hedge funds restrict when an investor can cash out. 
Particularly hard-hit were hedge funds focused on energy and emerging markets strategies. Funds trading in Chinese assets fell nearly 16 percent in the quarter, buffeted by wild swings in China's equity markets. Funds with a short-selling focus, which bet on certain assets to fall in price, survived the quarter as the only strategy group with significant positive gains.
Some leading names in the hedge fund industry have reported big losses. Pershing Square Capital Management, run by activist investor William Ackman, has fallen 12.6 percent since the start of 2015. Larry Robbins' Glenview Capital Management has slid 13.5 percent this year. 
SAN FRANCISCO -- Despite missing on revenue and earnings per share estimates, Yahoo was able to largely calm shareholders following the release of its third-quarter earnings Tuesday by announcing a search advertising partnership with Google. The deal could allow the Sunnyvale, California, company to boost its search revenue in the future. 
Yahoo posted revenue of $1.23 billion for the period ending in September along with earnings of 15 cents per share. Both results fell below analysts expectations of $1.26 billion in revenue and 17 cents earnings per share for the quarter, dropping Yahoo's share price more than 1 percent in after-hours trading. By comparison, the company posted $1.15 billion in revenue and posted earnings of 52 cents per share during the third quarter of 2014. 
The results come shortly after a report by Re/code highlighting that a number of key hires by CEO Marissa Mayer have left the company in recent months, which some interpret as a sign that members of the chief executive's hand-picked team have begun to give up on her efforts. 
Buffering the blow was news of Yahoo's alliance with Google. Through the partnership, Yahoo will be able to show Google AdSense ads for mobile search results as well as some desktop results. The majority of Yahoo Search ads must still come from Bing, per the company's partnership with Microsoft.
"We believe that by establishing partnerships with both leaders in the search space we can achieve a competitive search dynamic that will provide a better experience for our users and advertisers and improve our monetization," Mayer said during the company's earnings call. 
Yahoo's deal with Google will began after it receives regulatory approval and will expire at the end of 2018, according to a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Google will pay Yahoo a percentage of each ad, depending on where in the world it is displayed and on what type of device. Yahoo, meanwhile, will pay Google fees for requests to use its text and image search results.
Though the deal is a good step forward for Yahoo and allows it to decrease its reliance on Microsoft, it's impact may not be much, said eMarketer analyst Martin Utreras. “In terms of their bottom line, those search deals are revenue-sharing deals, which are not going to significantly impact their capacity to generate profits," Utreras said.
Additionally, Yahoo stressed that in the short term the top priority is to move forward with its plans to spin out its 15 percent stake in Alibaba, the Chinese e-commerce giant, into its own company, returning that value to shareholders. This plan hit a snag recently when the Internal Revenue Service declined to pre-approve the spinoff as tax-free, but Yahoo has said it will continue to go forward with the process. 
Yahoo was also able to show modest growth for its overall revenue (up 7 percent year to year), mobile advertising revenue (up 31 percent) and desktop revenue (up 3.6 percent), but shareholders continue to be disappointed by the sluggish growth the company has seen throughout Mayer's three-year tenure. 
"Yahoo has a real problem and needs to figure out how to grow their business and revitalize their brand," said Sean Bower, chief editor of the Wall Street Informer. "The competition is fierce and the clock is ticking for Marissa Mayer. The honeymoon period is over and investors want results."
Crédit Agricole will pay nearly $800 million to settle charges related to business dealings in Iran, Sudan, Myanmar and other sanctioned countries between 2003 and 2008. Over that period, U.S. financial regulators say the French bank's New York branch processed more than $32 billion in illegal payments routed through global branches from Hong Kong to Paris. 
In Sudan, the bank's client called the Darfur crisis "an exaggeration in the media" and dangled the prospect of newly discovered Sudanese oil riches as an inducement to sidestep American sanctions, according to the settlement with New York's Department of Financial Services. The bank's anti-money-laundering division allegedly gave a green light to the dealings, citing a maneuver dubbed internally as the "Sudanese U-turn exception" -- a complete fabrication, according to regulators.
For its Iran dealings, the bank allegedly had written policies requiring employees to wipe away any indications that the money passing through the bank's New York branch had originated in a sanctioned country. "The method for [U.S. dollar] payments is as follows: no mention of Iran is made on this instruction," one internal memo read, according to the settlement. 
In addition to the $787 million monetary penalty, the settlement required Crédit Agricole to install a monitor over its anti-money-laundering department. Four other U.S. regulatory and law enforcement agencies joined in on the settlement, including the Treasury Department and the Federal Reserve. 
Crédit Agricole, the third-largest bank in Europe, became the 11th lender to settle with U.S. authorities over lapses in its money-laundering controls in the mid-2000s. The bank's French rival BNP Paribas settled for $8.9 billion -- more than 10 times Crédit Agricole's settlement -- in 2014 over similar alleged violations. 
Though most of the employees involved in the alleged wrongdoing had left the bank, the settlement mandated the termination of a managing director who reportedly wrote a 2005 memo titled "Special Treatment of Iranian Related Payments." 
CAMBRIDGE, Massachusetts -- Mark Findeis surveys a grassy field where the company he co-founded once rented lab space. It was in the corner of a one-story factory that has since been torn down. Findeis hasn’t returned here since the last time he walked out the front door of Satori, the biotech company where he served as head of research for eight years.
“My office was right about the third telephone pole,” he said, pointing. 
But there is nothing much left to see. A woman tosses a ball to a dog. Passersby cut across the field on their way to desks and workbenches at other companies in the throes of fundraising and drug discovery.
Satori sought to develop an Alzheimer’s treatment based on a plant extract whose rights Findeis licensed from the Mayo Clinic. A few molecules derived from the extract lowered the level of the brain's beta amyloid peptide, which builds up into a harmful plaque called amyloid and which is known to accumulate in the brains of Alzheimer’s patients. The company raised $47 million from investors from 2008 to 2012. But monkeys that took the drug in early trials suffered impaired function of their adrenal glands, which are key in regulating hormones. In the spring of 2013, Satori closed forever.
Failure is an unwelcome but necessary force that shapes the industry. Biotech executives often lure early stage investors with visions of blockbuster medicines but -- statistically speaking -- failure is far more likely. There were 34,523 biotech firms dedicated to research, drugs or medical devices in 2012, according to the latest figures from the industry group BIO. The organization doesn’t maintain statistics on bankruptcies or closures but acknowledges only a fraction of companies ever will generate a Food and Drug Administration-approved treatment or product. Only one in 10 drugs that start the first of three phases of clinical trials required by the FDA eventually will complete all three stages and earn the agency's final approval.
Still, daily headlines shout progress and company valuations surge. Findeis' field of dashed dreams is less than a mile from Kendall Square, the beating heart of the nation’s biotech industry. Behind him, a new building filled with office and lab space awaits tenants. Even so, the amount of available lab space in the city hit an all-time low in September. Just a block away, a man power-washed the facade of the shiny headquarters of Alnylam Pharmaceuticals, a company focused on finding new treatments by altering gene expression through ribonucleic acid, or RNA.
But it's companies like Satori -- as they burst loudly or slip away quietly -- that reveal a more nuanced portrait of innovation while challenging more traditional ways of looking at failure. To outsiders, a company's collapse is a failure and the loss of $47 million seems an egregious waste. Industry insiders, however, embrace failure as a guiding light. Every discarded drug candidate brings researchers one step closer to a cure; every business closure redistributes employees to companies with the strongest ideas, and every bankruptcy frees up valuable real estate. 
“I think the essential part of failure is it's part of this creative destruction process that is alive and very thriving in this industry,” said Bernard Munos, a biotech analyst and consultant at InnoThink Research for Biomedical Innovation. “It basically helps redeploy resources, whether it's financial resources or assets or people from failed attempts, to more promising opportunities.”
The Kendall Square area of Cambridge, Massachusetts, is a hub for biotech.  Photo: Amy Nordrum/International Business Times
The Rewards Of Risk
Strangers to Findeis or biotech would reasonably assume the demise of a business can lead to a marred reputation for the founder and perhaps even the death of a career. Max Jacobs, a biotech analyst at Edison Investment Research, said that’s not the case.
“It doesn't leave a permanent black mark with most people in the industry,” he said. “I think compared with other industries, you learn a lot more with failure.”
In some cases, failure may even be worn as a badge of honor.
“If they do good science, there's no stigma,” Munos said. “In fact, they'll probably attract sympathy because they went out on a limb, and they pursued a really interesting idea. It didn’t work out in the lab but at least they had the guts to do it.”
After Satori, a former co-worker introduced Findeis to Agenus Inc., a Lexington, Massachusetts, company that focuses on immunotherapy. He began consulting for the company and it eventually hired him as a strategic adviser. He now also consults for two other biotech companies in addition to his work at Agenus. 
During a recent panel on the campus of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Peter Parker, director of a nearby biotech launch facility called LabCentral, said employees of failed firms have little trouble landing new jobs in the area. He suggested failure is a subjective concept that takes on new meaning within biotech.
“These people tend to get recycled. The demand for high-quality people is really high,” he said. “There is no failure. You sort of get the experience and move on.” 
Michelle Dipp, CEO of the fertility startup OvaScience in Kendall Square, agreed. She spoke of lab and clinical failures that characterize the exhilarating and frustrating process of drug development. “If you don’t fail, you won’t succeed,” she said. “You actually incentivize people to fail but you incentivize them to fail quickly and completely.” 
Findeis is reasonably certain all but one of Satori’s other employees found employment in biotech within a few months in the Boston area after the firm collapsed (the one who didn’t took an academic appointment elsewhere). And people within the Cambridge biotech scene still think fondly of Satori.
“Even in its later stages, maybe even after it had folded, I was talking with our patent attorney,” Findeis said. “And she told me: 'You know, Satori is considered a really good story in town even though it didn't work out. A lot of people were really interested in it.' ”
A sculpture titled “Alchemist” by Spanish artist Jaume Plensa on the campus of Massachusetts Institute of Technology in Cambridge. The university provides a wealth of highly qualified candidates to area biotech companies.  Photo: Amy Nordrum/International Business Times
The Unlucky Ones
A failure in biotech can mean an official proclamation of bankruptcy, but it can also mean a company simply closes its doors and its assets evaporate. Often, businesses simply transform. If a clinical trial for a leading drug candidate fails, a company’s stakeholders pick up another idea and morph into something new or shift focus to a backup molecule and quietly revise their website.
To be sure, employees sometimes lose out. The nation’s biotech and biomedical companies employ slightly more than 1 million people. The industry may profess a fondness for failure, but just like other areas of business, a company’s downfall can dramatically affect workers' lives. This is particularly true if they don’t have enough notice to plan their next steps, or if they weren’t getting paid in the first place.
That happened to Ian McRury. In 2009, he joined NuOrtho Surgical Inc. formerly based in Fall River, Massachusetts, as chief scientific officer. A year later, the company won FDA approval for a surgical instrument that uses low radio frequencies to minimize damage to healthy tissue while repairing damaged cartilage during knee surgery.
“I thought the company had a good chance to succeed, or at least, the product did,” McRury said. “We had very good scientific backings. We had all of the ingredients -- peer-reviewed papers, surgeons who liked the product. These are typically indicators that you have a successful product.”
But NuOrtho struggled to sell the instrument nationwide. The company had only raised about $2 million up to that point, and the product's launch was throttled by insufficient funds and poor management. McRury realized he was in trouble. He had been working for free or minimum wage for more than a year, buoyed by his belief in the instrument’s value to surgeons. When he resigned from the company in 2012, he left behind “close to six figures” of unpaid salary.
After NuOrtho, McRury, who is 45, struggled to make ends meet. He accepted a position with a medical device distribution company he didn’t expect would advance his career, but could pay the bills. “It left me in a bad state,” he said. “I needed cash.”
Construction near Kendall Square in Cambridge, Massachusetts.  Photo: Amy Nordrum/International Business Times
He said his expertise worked against him. Younger employees may have a better chance of rising from the ashes of a fallen startup either because employers assume they carried less responsibility for the experiment gone wrong or because they are more versatile.
“If you’re an entry level engineer, you can leave a startup pretty quickly and get another job,” he said. “At my level when you’re a midlevel manager, it's harder to pick back up where you were prior to that.”
NuOrtho filed for bankruptcy earlier this year, and ex-employees have filed claims for $2.1 million in unpaid wages. McRury is not optimistic about his chances of recovering the money he lost. The company only lists $280,000 in assets and last year sold just $41,600 in product.
Investors weigh risks when they choose to back a company, but employees also make a gamble when they accept a position. They can be lured by equity and the promise of a large payout if a drug is approved by the FDA and becomes a blockbuster. But even here in the nation’s gleaming capital of biotech, where the world’s top medical minds are supported by seasoned CEOs and savvy investors, most companies do fail. McRury said CEOs and boards of directors should always offer standard pay and benefits, and be transparent with workers when the writing is on the wall.
“There's a tendency for CEOs and other management to try to keep morale up and they try to hide some of the issues. The problem is -- you're influencing people’s lives,” he said. “And when the end comes, there's nothing there. There’s no funds to give someone when they walk out the door. You're just gone and there’s no check coming.”
After his experience with NuOrtho, McRury is wary of working at another biotech with fewer than 40 or 50 people on staff. That’s a sign to him a company is too early in the process. But Findeis said it is exhilarating to launch a company with a small team and is nostalgic about his days at Satori. He remains up front about the risks in advising others.  
“When I'm hiring people, I give them a speech that says, when you look at the average biotech, it takes about five years to kill one,” he said. “If you come to a place that is starting out, it'll be around for long enough for you to get ready for your next job. You'll be able to show something for your time and that you've grown personally and professionally.”
UPDATE, 9:55 p.m. EDT: Tesla's stock price closed down 6.6 percent Tuesday, to $213.03, Reuters reported.
Original story:
Tesla (NASDAQ:TSLA) stock fell more than 10 percent in afternoon trading Tuesday after Consumer Reports withdrew its recommendation for the company's Model S car, citing reliability concerns. Tesla stock was at $202.05 at 2:20 p.m. EDT, down from an opening price of $227.72.
Consumer Reports said in a statement that owners had reported a variety of issues. "This year, with a below-average rating, we are no longer recommending the Model S,” said Jake Fisher, director of automotive testing. “In terms of owner satisfaction, customers would buy it again -- they love it.”
The publication only recommends vehicles with an above average reliability rating. Issues like an electric motor that needed replacing and the onboard charging system failing to charge up the battery meant Consumer Reports had to withdraw its rating. The vehicle was first introduced in 2012, but Consumer Reports noted that even on newer vehicles, the door handles and sun roof still pose problems.
Tesla spokesman Ricardo Reyes told the Los Angeles Times that the company works to fix issues with over-the-air software updates. "In instances when hardware needs to be fixed, we strive to make it painless,” Reyes said. “Consumer Reports also found that customers rate Tesla service as the best in the world.”
In August, Consumer Reports gave a new version of the Model S rave reviews. The P85D was so good the publication gave it a score of 103 out of 100, citing the car's "exceptionally strong performance." 
It has not been a good month for Tesla. On Oct. 9, it was reported that Tesla had lost over $3.5 billion market valuation since the debut of the Model X sports utility vehicle. The car was a lot more expensive than analysts were expecting. Adam Jonas, chief automotive analyst at Morgan Stanley, said the price was almost $15,000 higher than expected.
Tesla plans to introduce a smaller, cheaper car in 2017, called the Model 3. The model is part of a long-term plan to reach the goal of selling 500,000 vehicles per year by 2020.
As unions crumble, the United States' embattled middle class may be brought to its knees. A working paper published this week by the National Bureau of Economic Research suggests a “strong, though not necessarily causal” link between the power of labor unions, the well-being of the middle class and income mobility between generations.
“If there is a causal component to the strong correlations we have found, the natural implication is that the U.S. will find it harder to address the problem of the diminishing middle-income group than if trade unions were as strong and viable as they were 30, 40 or 50 years ago,” researchers Richard Freeman, Eunice Han, David Madland and Brendan V. Duke found. “A strong union movement is not simply sufficient for high levels of intergenerational mobility and middle-class membership, but it could be necessary.”

Union members are disproportionately middle class -- that is, they earn incomes between 0.5 and 1.5 times the median income level. And as researchers noted, both groups have seen their ranks steadily diminish in the last few decades. From 1979 to 2012, union membership slid by more than one half, from 24 percent of all workers to 11 percent. Over that same time, the size of the middle class shrank by more than 10 percentage points, to 45 percent of the population.
Researchers also showed the offspring of union parents earn higher incomes than those from nonunion parents. That difference is especially pronounced among the children of parents who didn’t go to college: Those with a union parent earned, on average, $6,300 or 16 percent more than those with nonunion parents: “This suggests that unions increase opportunity for children who need it most.”
The paper also shed light on the positive “spillover” effect unions have on communities, finding that “unionism is highly correlated with the well-being of all children in area, not just children of union parents”: Children who grow up in communities with higher union density earn greater incomes relative to their parents compared to children from communities with lower union density.
The apparent connection between the declining middle class and the withering labor movement has increasingly proven fodder for debate among economists -- not to mention other professors, pundits and politicians. Conservative critics argue the trends are not necessarily causally related.
The world of pro sports long ago recognized how “Moneyball” tactics can transform a franchise -- like baseball's Chicago Cubs rising from lovable losers to hosts of a National League Championship game Wednesday -- but they're a relatively new trend in the business world. A growing number of companies and executives are using nontraditional methods of data analysis to cut costs, improve employee performance and attract new customers.
“Moneyball,” known in baseball circles as “sabermetrics,” centers on the use of advanced stats to more accurately gauge on-field performance and identify undervalued players. The concept exploded in popularity with the 2003 release of Michael Lewis’ book, which documented how Oakland Athletics general manager Billy Beane used statistics like on-base percentage, rather than more traditional measures of success like home runs, to turn his underfunded team into a perennial contender. Since then, advanced analytics have caught on in the NBA and other major American sports leagues, as well as in international soccer and tennis.
With the uncertainty of today's financial landscape, statistics that can help companies eliminate waste or identify new customers are hugely valuable. Employees at online retailer Amazon are parsing data sets such as customer "click rates" and email-open rates to improve their marketing and decide which products to keep in stock, with $88 billion in revenue to show for its efforts in 2014. Organizations like Teach For America apply advanced metrics to target the best job candidates, while medical professionals use real-time biodata to improve how they monitor patients. The possibilities, quite literally, are endless, and companies are still learning how to sift through mountains of information.
“We don’t have a data problem anymore. We have a ‘too much data’ problem,” said Fred Feinberg, a professor of marketing and statistics at the University of Michigan’s Ross School of Business. “Data is not information. The key is, when information is coming in so fast you can’t even store it for more than a few days, you have to decide what to retain.”
Expansion In Sports
Data of every kind is more abundant than ever, and executives can apply their research in any number of different ways. For Beane, whose Athletics had the third-lowest payroll in baseball in 2002, that meant finding player like catcher-turned-first baseman Scott Hatteberg, who could produce at a high rate on the field at a bargain salary.
In the National Basketball Association, Houston Rockets general manager Daryl Morey spearheaded a statistics-based approach that has changed the way teams play the sport. With the backing of computing systems that can quickly parse large data sets, teams have eschewed the traditional two-point jump shot in favor of three-point shots and layups, which are seen as more efficient. Players who can perform within that new system have seen their earning potential increase exponentially.
“Moneyball” is starting to catch on internationally, too. Tennis players use big data to streamline their on-court movements and identify weaknesses in their games that can’t be seen from basic statistics like unforced errors. Sabermetrics are still in their infancy in soccer, but efforts are underway to integrate them.
Business Applications
It’s taken just a few years for companies to realize data analysis can be a versatile, powerful tool, with all sorts of potential applications. The “Moneyball” concept is now essential to the hiring process, as companies seek to identify strong job candidates, maximize employee work output and retain workers who prove to be valuable assets.
Companies are parsing job boards and resumes for attributes found most often in their best employees. For example, an international accounting firm could determine that applicants who went to a certain school or possessed certain foreign-language skills tend to be particularly productive, just as a baseball team would target players with a high on-base percentage. If a statistical analysis shows employees are leaving a company because a competitor is offering more money, that company can restructure compensation and perks to keep workers happy.
Investment banking firms Goldman Sachs and Credit Suisse, tech front-runners like Google and Microsoft and nonprofits like Teach For America are just a few organizations that have embraced this sort of employee analysis, said Cade Massey, professor of operations, information and decisions at the University of Pennsylvania’s Wharton Business School and host of “Wharton Moneyball” on Sirius XM radio.
“Many organizations are trying to better understand what really predicts employee success. People are more and more aware that the traditional resume-and-interview approach leaves a lot to be desired,” Massey said.
As consumers increasingly turn to Internet outlets to do their shopping, advanced metrics help online retailers eliminate waste from the supply chain and reduce expenses. By analyzing product reviews, search histories and previous purchases, companies like Amazon can tailor the marketplace to suit an individual customer’s preferences.
Most online retailers have developed algorithms that provide “recommended products” after checkout, in hopes of luring customers into spending more money. But Amazon employees also make extensive manual use of stats like "click rate" and "opt-out" rate, or how often customers unsubscribe from email lists. If a particular customer buys a lot of books and video games, Amazon determines which product purchases will yield more revenue and alter its email lists to match, an employee told Fortune in 2012.
“Amazon is a company that is built fundamentally on data-driven decision-making. It’s because of the trove of information that they have accumulated about consumer behavior based on consumer purchases on that platform,” said Ben Ryan Shields, a data analytics expert and lecturer at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology’s Sloan Management school.
This sort of data-driven analysis can also yield massive dividends from a marketing and advertising perspective. Google, which has embraced advanced analytics from the start, can help potential partners identify how and when to advertise their products based on real-time search data. For a company that generates as much Web traffic as Google, the potential for targeted advertisements is staggering.
In one case, Google determined which regions of the country were most affected by the seasonal flu based on where residents were doing online searches for symptoms. The company identified outbreak sites even before the Centers for Disease Control did, said Feinberg, the University of Michigan professor. That information could be very valuable to a company selling over-the-counter flu medication. 
“If you want to talk about clever data usage, they are absolutely number-one in the world,” said Feinberg. “They can find out minute-to-minute how people are interested in new products and what they’re looking for.”
The rise of advanced data analytics has also had a perceptible effect on the medical industry – particularly in terms of how doctors treat their patients. More and more healthcare providers are switching to electronic medical records or “EMRS,” which place a patient’s treatment history and notable traits in an easy-to-read digital format. It’s a development that “could be a massive revolution for the way the healthcare industry is run,” said Shields, the MIT lecturer.
Wearable technology, such as the FitBit, provide users and doctors with real-time health data on everything from heart rate to sleep patterns. Doctors can now monitor health statistics on a constant basis, rather than during an hours-long visit or a hospital stay. Andre Iguodala, the Golden State Warriors shooting guard and 2015 NBA Finals Most Valuable Player, credited wearable technology with helping team doctors keep players healthy and well-rested.
A Work In Progress
While new data analysis methods are revolutionizing the way many companies do business, it’s still a relatively new concept that occasionally presents flaws. The usefulness of statistical research is in the eye of the beholder, and plenty of executives are still figuring out how to turn troves of information into actionable strategy. Companies that are using data most effectively tend to conduct proactive marketing experiments, rather than simply staring at shopping data in the hope that a solution presents itself.
Data is also easy to misinterpret, which leads some companies to employ ineffective strategies or waste resources based on faulty logic. Analysts often mistake correlation and causation, said Joel Shapiro, executive director of the data analytics program at Northwestern University’s Kellogg School of Management in Illinois. For example, a clothing company could theorize that customers who received a lot of store emails were more likely to buy products, but those customers might only be on the email list because they bought something in the past.
As companies like Google and Amazon turn data-driven research into tangible cash, smaller firms might try to adopt the same tactics. But too much reliance on statistics might also lead business leaders to adjust their perception of the “Moneyball” approach.
“Too many people think that data analysis and analytics is a panacea for all their problems,” Shapiro said. “I think analytics, while very powerful, is a bit overhyped. People are going to soon realize that analytics can’t solve everything.”
In the meantime, every tech startup and investing juggernaut will try to use “Moneyball” to beat their competitors. Especially if the Cubs win the World Series.
This story was updated at 4 p.m. EDT
U.S. stocks closed lower Tuesday, with the Dow Jones Industrial Average snapping a three-day winning streak, as Wall Street continued to weigh mixed corporate earnings in the technology sector. Shares of Dow component International Business Machines Corp. (NYSE:IBM) dropped nearly 6 percent Tuesday, a day after the technology company posted a 14 percent decline in revenue, driven by a strong U.S. dollar and weakness in hardware sales.
After falling roughly 80 points following the opening bell, the Dow reversed and gained as much as 36 points in morning trading after United Technologies Corporation (NYSE:UTX) jumped 4 percent, helping push the blue-chip index higher. The U.S. aerospace and building systems conglomerate beat earnings forecasts and announced plans to restructure company before the end of the year.
However, the Dow reversed again in afternoon trading to trade flat.
Four of the 10 sectors in the Standard & Poor's 500 index traded lower, led by a 1.5 percent decline in healthcare stocks. The telecom sector rose roughly 1 percent after Verizon Communications Inc. (NYSE:VZ) topped Wall Street's earnings estimates. 
The Dow Jones Industrial Average (INDEXDJX:.DJI) lost 13.36 points, or 0.08 percent, to close at 17,217.18. The Standard & Poor's 500 index (INDEXSP:.INX) edged down 2.89 points, or 0.14 percent, to end at 2,030.77. The Nasdaq composite (INDEXNASDAQ:.IXIC) fell 24.5 points, or 0.5 percent, to finish at 4,880.97.
Market professionals awaited a speech from Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen, searching for more clues on the timing of the U.S. central bank’s looming interest rate increase. However, Yellen, who spoke Tuesday at the Labor Hall of Honor Induction Ceremony in Washington, D.C., made no mention about current U.S. economic conditions in her prepared remarks. 
Meanwhile, Fed Governor Jerome Powell also spoke Tuesday at the New York Fed to a conference on the evolving structure of the Treasury market, saying investors are concerned about less liquidity in the bond market.
"Most market participants perceive some reduction in liquidity," Powell said in prepared remarks. "Views on the severity of the situation seem to be more mixed."
The Fed is scheduled to hold its next two-day meeting on Oct. 27-28. In September, the central bank left interest rates unchanged but remained open to a hike as soon as October.
Shares of Verizon Communications Inc. (NYSE:VZ) rose 1.5 percent after the largest U.S. wireless service provider turned in stronger-than-expected quarterly revenue and profit, driven by increased postpaid subscribers in the third quarter.
In the quarter ended Sept. 30, net income attributable to Verizon rose to $4.04 billion, or 99 cents per share, on revenue of$33.16 billion, up from $3.70 billion, or 89 cents per share, on sales of $31.59 billion a year earlier.
Yum! Brands Inc. (NYSE:YUM), the parent of KFC, Pizza Hut and Taco Bell, announced Tuesday it plans to spin off its China unit into a separate publicly traded company. Following the announcement, shares of Yum! Brands rose 4 percent on the New York Stock Exchange.
Notable companies reporting quarterly results after the closing bell include Yahoo! Inc. (NASDAQ:YHOO) and Chipotle Mexican Grill Inc. (NYSE:CMG).
U.S. housing starts rose more than expected in September, marking the sixth straight month the metric remained above 1 million units, signaling a stable housing recovery. Groundbreaking on new homes rose 6.5 percent to a seasonally adjusted annual pace of 1.21 million units, up from the 1.13 million-unit rate in August, the Commerce Department said Tuesday.
The data also showed the number of building permits issued in September fell by 5 percent from the prior month to its lowest level since March, signaling there appear to be some signs of caution from homebuilders. However, separate data issued Monday showed homebuilder confidence rose to its highest level in a decade in September, suggesting the outlook for housing starts is positive.
“While the number of building permits issued dropped back to a six-month low, the fact that homebuilder confidence is at its highest level in a decade suggests that the upward trend in housing starts is set to continue,” Stephen Brown, property economist at Capital Economics, said in a research note Tuesday.
After the Treasury Department invested $45 billion in Citigroup during the throes of the financial crisis in 2008, the bank received an additional gift from the Internal Revenue Service in the form of a special tax exemption. Now an economist from Indiana is suing the bank, arguing that the state of New York is still owed $800 million in unpaid taxes, despite the exemption. 
The economist dredging up the crisis-era decision, Professor Eric Rasmusen of Indiana University, told the Buffalo News that while the federal government might have been justified in allowing the tax exemption, New York didn't need to follow suit. “Maybe the IRS had some good policy reasons for going against what the law said, but it isn’t clear why New York taxpayers have to forfeit revenues in pursuit of some federal policy objective of the Obama administration,” he told the newspaper. 
New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman reportedly declined to pursue the case, which was moved from state court to a federal court in Manhattan at Citigroup's behest. 
According to the complaint, Citigroup was able to write off $800 million in state taxes that would have been off-limits had the IRS not issued the special tax ruling. In normal times, companies can take net operating losses from a down year and use them to reduce tax liabilities in future years when business picks up. That privilege does not apply, however, when a company is acquired, a rule meant to prevent companies from buying one another simply to write off past losses. 
As the federal government bailed out Citigroup, General Motors and others, the IRS ruled that the companies had not undergone a change in ownership, and therefore their losses could be applied to future tax bills. In total, the special treatment saved the companies an estimated $35 billion. 
But Rasmusen's lawsuit argues that the taxpayers of New York ended up the losers as Citigroup applied big deductions to its state taxes. Under New York's False Claims Act, the complaint said, Citigroup would owe a total of $2.4 billion in taxes and penalties.
The False Claims Act would also entitle Rasmusen to a hefty monetary award should the lawsuit prevail, a windfall he has promised to donate. Citigroup has said the lawsuit's claims lack merit.
Oil prices dropped Tuesday ahead of a meeting of OPEC on Wednesday, the Wall Street Journal reported. Leaders in the industry said they did not expect to see much recovery in 2016 if current production levels continue.
Overproduction of oil, coupled with reduced demand from several emerging markets, has seen oil prices plummet since June 2014, sinking to just $39 per barrel in August. OPEC leaders have refused to lower the oil production ceiling, as producers have continued to struggle under some of the lowest prices in years.
The price of crude oil leveled out overnight Monday, and then began steadily dropping in the morning. West Texas Intermediate crude oil, the U.S. benchmark, was at $46.33, and Brent crude, the global standard, was at $48.88 Tuesday.
Despite the initial plateau, one industry leader told Reuters he was not optimistic for the future of crude oil in 2016. "If we are above $60 by the end of 2016, I will be a little bit surprised," said Ian Taylor, a chief executive at Vitol, a major global energy and commodity trading company.
Oil nations feel the strain of ?Opec's continuing price war http://t.co/Fa7Lo6FqTm pic.twitter.com/3JnP5O9nXY
— Telegraph News (@TelegraphNews) October 18, 2015
Dips in the price per barrel came just weeks after the secretary-general of OPEC said producers could expect to see a recovery in prices in 2016. "I remain confident that our industry's best days are yet to come," Abdalla Salem El-Badri said Oct. 11, as reported by Reuters. El-Badri cited a reduction of non-OPEC oil production as the driving force behind a recovery for prices. 
Major oil producers have continued to urge OPEC to cut production. Iran's oil minister said Monday it should be slashed enough to raise the price per barrel to the $70-$80 range, Bloomberg reported. The current price is around $48.53.
Few analysts expect much from the OPEC meeting in Vienna Tuesday, while saying the prices would not sink dramatically. “Although there is little chance of any concrete steps to reduce the oversupply being agreed, the vague prospect of a minimal consensus should at least discourage market participants from betting on further falling prices,” said analysts from Commerzbank, as reported by the Wall Street Journal.
China Mobile Ltd., the world’s largest telecommunications carrier, is reporting lower profits than expected as new subscribers rose at a slower rate, Bloomberg reported Tuesday. The state-owned company said its third-quarter net income, ending in September, was up 13 percent to 28.2 billion yuan ($4.4 billion).
Although the third quarter had the highest quarterly growth seen in several years, it was lower than expected by analysts who predicted revenue at 176 billion instead of 172 billion yuan. The disappointing revenue was due in part to a less than 1 percent rise in new subscribers in September as well as the costs associated with building a high-speed network. New subscribers rose to 822.9 million while 4G customers increased to 247.6 million people.
The third-quarter results come after China’s wireless carriers reorganized and merged approximately $36 billion in assets, Bloomberg reported last week. The merger was part of a government plan to aid state enterprises as mobile carriers face competition from messaging applications. Analysts say the merger could help companies as they expand into China’s rural regions.
“The completion of the long-awaited tower asset injection should help to level the competitive ground for the smaller operators,” said Cynthia Meng, an analyst at Jefferies Group LLC, according to Bloomberg. “However, due to the magnitude of the scale, we believe China Mobile will remain the dominant telecom market leader by far.”
The third-quarter results come at moment of continued economic uncertainty following China’s market turmoil that spread across the globe in late August. China’s economic growth slowed in the third quarter, growing by 6.9 percent, a weak rate not seen since the global financial crisis of 2008, the BBC reported Monday.
Manufacturing data has shown continued contraction as China reorients toward a service-focused economy away from an export-dependent one.
"In order to restructure, the economy will face some downward pressure," said Sheng Laiyun, a spokesman for the country’s statistics agency. "All this indicates the restructuring and upgrading of the Chinese economy are going steadily."
Tata Steel announced Tuesday that it will cut around 1,200 jobs in the U.K., mainly at its plants in Scunthorpe in North Lincolnshire and Lanarkshire in Scotland. The company blamed inexpensive Chinese imports for the falling prices of steel.
The steel industry in the U.K. is reportedly grappling with falling prices, high energy costs, inexpensive imports and the strength of the pound, which has led to exports becoming heavier on the pocket. 
About 900 jobs will be cut at the India-based company’s plant in Scunthorpe and 270 jobs will be cut in Scotland, along with job cuts across the U.K. The confirmation of the job cuts came from the company after days of speculation about its plans. Union leaders and staff leaving the Scunthorpe plant said, according to the Guardian, that they were “devastated” by the news and added that it would not be clear who would be affected in the job cuts until the consultation period was over. The Scunthorpe plant employs 4,000 people, according to the BBC.
“I realize how distressing this news will be for all those affected. We have looked at all other options before proposing these changes,” Karl Köhler, chief executive of Tata Steel’s European operations, said in the statement, adding: “The UK steel industry is struggling for survival in the face of extremely challenging market conditions. This industry has a crucial role to play in rebalancing the UK economy, but we need a fairer system to encourage growth. The European commission needs to do much more to deal with unfairly traded imports – inaction threatens the future of the entire European steel industry.”
British Prime Minister David Cameron has so far promised to take up the issue of the country's ailing steel industry amid inexpensive Chinese imports with Chinese President Xi Jinping, who is currently on a four-day-visit to the U.K., BBC reported.
Tata Steel reportedly tried to sell the division undergoing job cuts, but failed. The company also said in the statement that plate mills in Scunthorpe, Dalzell and Clydebridge would be “mothballed” and two coke ovens at the Scunthorpe steelworks will be closed down.
“In the past two years, imports of steel plate into Europe have doubled and imports from China have quadrupled, causing steel prices to fall steeply. At the same time, a stronger pound has undermined the competitiveness of the business’s Europe-bound exports, and encouraged more imports,” the statement said.
The company also said that it will begin consultations Tuesday with Tata Steel employees and trade unions, which will last over 90 days. Tata employs about 17,000 people in the U.K., and its news follows the announcement that SSI, the Thai owner of the Redcar steelworks in northeastern England, was going into liquidation, cutting 2,200 jobs, the Guardian reported.
"The significance of this is that it could be the end of steel production in Scotland,” John Park, assistant general secretary of trade union Community, said, according to the BBC, adding: "Tata Steel have to be persuaded to mothball the site rather than close it and the Scottish government has to have a role in keeping the infrastructure secure and supporting short-time work until a future can be secured."
Paul McBean, from the Community union, said, according to the Guardian: "We knew it was coming but it doesn’t make it any easier. I’ve worked here for 40 years and I don’t know my future. It’s the same for a lot of people in there."
Following an appeal from Zambian President Edgar Lungu, citizens across the southern African country partook in a national day of prayer and fasting Sunday, seeking divine intervention in the nation’s economic crisis. But Lungu’s plea has been met with skepticism; and Zambia, which has seen its kwacha currency fall to record lows this year, will need more than prayers to reverse the country’s fortunes.
Amid a collapse in global commodity prices and slowing demand from China, Zambia’s copper-dependent economy is expected to grow by less than 5 percent this year, down from an earlier projection of about 6 percent. Rather than seek God’s help, the Zambian government should cut spending and rigorously pursue diversification programs over the coming years to reduce reliance on commodities and China, international analysts said. Either way, Zambians can expect tough times ahead.
“In a way, it’s ironic that they’re praying,” said Anna Rosenberg, practice leader for sub-Saharan Africa at Frontier Strategy Group, a global research and advisory firm that specializes in doing business in emerging markets. “If anything, it shows that the government is desperate and at a loss of what to do.”
Thousands of Zambians rally to pray against the depreciation of the country's currency and economic crisis in the capital city Lusaka on Oct. 18, 2015. Photo: Salim Dawood/AFP/Getty Images
Zambia is the second-largest copper producer within continental Africa and one of the top 10 producers in the world. The red metal accounts for almost 70 percent of export earnings and employs more than 60,000 people in the landlocked country. China accounts for almost half of global copper consumption and is Zambia’s top trading partner.
Zambia-China relations stretch back to Zambia’s independence from British colonial rule in 1964. Enhanced Chinese engagement in the past two decades has shown promise in the southern African country, where 68 percent of the population lives below the poverty line and unemployment is rampant. Seeking natural resources to feed its growing economy and expanding population, China’s accumulated investment in Zambia reached more than $2.5 billion in 2013, mostly in mining and metal refining in the northwest Copperbelt region.
The latest census data shows some 100,000 Chinese live in Zambia, a country of 14.5 million people, and more than 500 Chinese companies are involved in agriculture, retail trade, hospitals, pharmacies, information and communication technologies, as well as road construction, mining and manufacturing. China is responsible for many major infrastructure projects in Zambia, including a $2 billion hydropower plant that helped the country amid electricity shortages last year.
“Zambia is very dependent on China, more so than other African countries,” Rosenberg said in a telephone interview Monday. “It has relied on commodities more than anything. It should have diversified its economy a long time ago and it didn’t do that.”
Successive Zambian governments have pledged to diversify the copper-dependent economy. There has been some modest progress over the years in developing non-commodity sectors like retail trade and manufacturing, experts said, but the economy has continued to overwhelmingly rely on copper with China as its chief customer.
Now, Zambia is strapped for cash as global copper prices hit a six-year low in late August and neared those levels again in September. Copper futures closed Friday at $2.307 per pound on the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange, down 15 percent this year, according to the Wall Street Journal. Consequently, food prices in Zambia have soared and mining revenues have fallen from 3.2 percent of GDP in 2012 to a projected 2.3 percent of GDP in 2015, CNBC reported. These volatile conditions will make diversification more challenging, experts said.
“The perennial statement when it comes to Zambia is, ‘We have to diversify.’ The time to diversify is when you’re in a position of strength, not when you’re in a position of weakness,” Scott Taylor, associate professor and director of the African Studies Program at Georgetown University in Washington, D.C., said.
Copper prices plunged as China’s benchmark Shanghai Composite Index recorded its steepest single-day slump in eight years this summer. The country’s devalued yuan has ricocheted across commodity-linked African currencies, but Zambia’s reliance on China has made it particularly vulnerable to the Asian economic giant’s downturn. Zambia’s kwacha currency tumbled nearly 50 percent against the U.S. dollar this year. And the worst is yet to come, experts said. The U.S. Federal Reserve, the world’s most influential central bank, is widely expected to raise interest rates before the end of the year amid uncertainties surrounding China’s economy, which will diminish the kwacha even further.
“That slide is not yet over,” Rosenberg at Frontier Strategy Group warned. “Once U.S. interest rates hike next year, the currency will slide even more.”
An aerial view of an Equinox copper mine is seen in Lumwana, Zambia, in this undated handout photo. Photo: Reuters/Equinox-Tim Lofthouse/Handout
Zambia is also suffering from internal factors like heavy debt and public spending deficits, which led Moody’s Investors Service in New York to cut the country’s credit rating last month. While Zambia can’t change the global economic climate, experts said the government should curb spending and stick to long-term diversification programs to instill confidence in foreign investors.
“First thing, the government should boost investor confidence by being proactive and clear about reforms, spending less than they have been and emphasizing economic diversification dramatically,” Rosenberg said. “They have got to send a very clear message that they are open for business and they understand the economic troubles.”
With his ruling Patriotic Front party facing an election next year, Lungu is keen to appear optimistic about Zambia’s economic outlook. His government announced Friday a budget that showed a growth rate of 5 percent this year and a reduction in the budget deficit to 3.8 percent from 6.9 percent, CNBC reported, which contradicts external estimates and raises questions about Lungu's seriousness to addressing Zambia's fiscal woes. While the Zambian leader may have briefly appealed to the country's Christian majoriy by prescribing prayer, Taylor, the Georgetown professor who has previously lived in Zambia, said it revealed the corner in which Lungu's government is boxed.
“To be perfectly candid, I didn’t know whether to laugh or cry,” he said in a telephone interview Monday. “They really don’t have a lot of short-term alternatives other than prayer.”
Yum! Brands Inc., the parent company of Pizza Hut and Kentucky Fried Chicken, began making preparations Tuesday to split its China division from the rest of the U.S.-based company, Bloomberg news reported. The decision came following a series of health scares in China franchises as well as a general slowdown of sales in the region.
“What we wanted to do was a thorough and rigorous review of the options available to us and we tried to get down to one option we all felt would unlock the most shareholder value,” Yum chief executive Greg Creed told the Wall Street Journal Tuesday.
The lagging sales in China franchises followed from an overall Chinese slow-down, the Wall Street Journal reported. Chinese franchises made an effort to win over customers by adding more healthy options to the menu, but many customers chose to eat at one of many other franchises in the country, including McDonald’s and Starbucks, and menu changes did not bring customers back.
The China division used to be one of the most lucrative branches of the company, earning $5.6 billion in 2011, accounting for nearly half of the company’s revenue that year. Revenues have dropped overall since 2011, though the China division did account for 57 percent of revenue and 54 percent of profits in the last quarter, Reuters reported.
BREAKING: Yum! Brands, owner of KFC and Pizza Hut, to split into 2 publicly traded companies https://t.co/GKARRdPV7r pic.twitter.com/PKapq4egq5
— Bloomberg Business (@business) October 20, 2015
Another motivating factor in the decision to separate the China division was a series of health scares. An avian flu outbreak spread in the company's fast food restaurants in 2012, and reports surfaced this past summer that one of the company’s Chinese suppliers was selling expired meat to the restaurants.
Yum Brands last week hired activist investor Keith Meister to be on its board of executives, spurring rumors that a U.S.-China split was already in the works, and Meister was reportedly the catalyst for the break.
Micky Pant, recently named executive of the China division, will lead the new spin-off company.
BANGALORE, India -- Some Indian buyers are willing to brave the risks attached to buying the expensive iPhone 6S on the gray market, available at some discount, driving business away from authorized retail chains and other channels selling Apple Inc.'s latest smartphone, the Economic Times reported Tuesday, citing industry executives.
The "gray market for the new iPhone is booming," the chief executive of a large mobile phone store chain told the newspaper, which didn't name him. Unless Apple steps in to bring down the official price of the iPhone 6S in India, some consumers will risk the gray market or simply wait for the eventual discounts online, the newspaper cited the executive as saying.
Over the last three years, Apple has moved from selling a negligible number of its smartphones in India to projecting sales of around 1.3 million handsets in the three months since the Oct. 16 launch of the iPhone 6S in the country. The launch was preceded by a blitzkrieg of ads on television, radio, hoardings at strategic positions in many cities, and offers by carriers.
"After Apple announced the prices for the new iPhones in India, it was pretty much expected that the gray phone market will boom considering the price difference from not just last year’s iPhones but also the prices being significantly higher than other countries," Kiranjeet Kaur, a Singapore-based research manager at market research company IDC said in an email to International Business Times.
For example, in Singapore the launch price of the 16GB version of iPhone 6 was 988 Singapore dollars ($715) a year ago, and the iPhone 6S is priced at 1,048 Singapore dollars ($758). For India, the corresponding prices are 53,500 rupees ($825) and 62,000 rupees ($956). "The gap is wider when we compare against U.S. prices," Kaur pointed out.
From May 2014, when India saw a new government sworn in, the Indian rupee has fallen about 11.4 percent to Tuesday's closing price of 64.96 rupees to a dollar. In its budget for the current fiscal year, the new government also raised excise duty on mobile handsets to 12.5 percent from 6 percent, in a move to promote local manufacturing.
The new iPhones could be more expensive than last year’s variants because of the more higher-end components, but the rupee depreciation and the higher taxes would definitely have a role to play, Kaur said.
Kaur expects Apple to "maintain a healthy double digit year-on-year growth rate, as Apple continues to be an aspirational brand." Moreover, the fact that Samsung's Galaxy S6 didn't perform as well as expected, has also helped Apple retain its brand image as one of the most premium smartphone sellers, she said.
In India, Apple has followed a strategy of officially lowering the price of older models once it launches the latest one. Analysts believe that many first-time buyers will be quite content to buy an iPhone 6, which has the same screen size as the 6S. In some cases those who might be just as happy with the smaller screen of the iPhone 5S, which too will offer the iOS 9 experience, will see that phone as a bargain.
As to the iPhone 6S, many deals are also available on eBay Inc.'s India site, offering "new, imported, undamaged" units for prices that are significantly lower than the official price. That these handsets are sold only with the seller's warranty -- typically for six months -- and not Apple's manufacturer's warranty, usually for one year, is also clearly listed.
E-commerce giant Amazon.com Inc. said it aims to increase seasonal hiring by 25 percent across its network of distribution centers in the United States, even as rival retailers remained cautious, holding temporary hiring at last year levels. Amazon said it would hire 100,000 seasonal employees, up from 80,000 last year.
The Seattle-based retailer has hired more than 25,000 full-time employees since August to prepare for the 2015 holiday season, the company said in a statement Tuesday.
Holiday hiring for retailers is expected to remain virtually unchanged from a year ago according to a report by global outplacement firm Challenger Gray & Christmas Inc. Wal-Mart will hire 60,000 seasonal employees this year, Target aims to hire 70,000 workers while Macy’s will take in about 85,000. The numbers are all about the same as the previous year's, the Wall Street Journal said. 
"Changes in the way consumers shop are making it possible for stores to meet increased holiday demand with fewer extra workers," Challenger said in the report. As retailers transition to selling more merchandise online, they don’t need as many employees in traditional roles to man stores.   
By hiring more employees than last year, Amazon is bucking a trend, along with gaming retailer Gamestop, which plans to hire 12 percent more part-time employees this year. Some retailers like J.C. Penney and Toys R Us plan to hire fewer employees than last year.
Asian markets were mixed Tuesday, while European equities traded mostly lower as renewed fears about the global economy pulled investors away from high-yielding, risky assets. Also weighing on investor sentiments were comments by a top U.S. Federal Reserve official Monday, suggesting that a rate hike was likely “in the near future.”
While Chinese equities rose on hopes that Beijing will ease monetary policy to address slowing growth, markets in Hong Kong were dragged down, largely due to a drop in oil prices. The Shanghai Composite Index closed up 1.1 percent, while the Hang Seng ended the day down 0.4 percent.
In Europe, the pan-European STOXX 600 fell 0.7 percent -- down from a two-month high -- while London’s FTSE 100 dropped 0.4 percent. Germany’s DAX was down 0.56 percent, while France’s CAC 40 fell 0.9 percent. Energy and mining shares also dragged down European markets Tuesday, with major energy stocks such as BP plc and Total SA also trading in the red.
U.S. stock futures also pointed to a bleak day on Wall Street, with S&P 500, Nasdaq and Dow Jones futures all down 0.3 percent.
Elsewhere in Asia, markets were mostly mixed. India’s S&P BSE Sensex closed down 0.2 percent after fluctuating between marginal gains and losses through the day, while Japan’s Nikkei 225 and South Korea’s Kospi Composite Index both closed up 0.4 percent.
“Markets are mixed because investors are broadly still uncertain about how the Chinese government is going to react in the fourth quarter, while some investors are anticipating more easing coming out,” Bernard Aw, a market strategist at brokerage IG, reportedly said. "There are two sides of the coin in China."
In Australia, however, minutes of a central bank board meeting -- which indicated that it was in no hurry to ease interest rates -- pulled markets down. The S&P ASX 200 declined 0.65 percent, led by energy and resources stocks, which fell as commodity prices reacted to weak Chinese data.
“They [traders] are waiting for things to happen, and then reacting as best they can,” Chris Conway, head of research at the Australian Stock Report, said. “Until the macro storm clouds that are hanging over the market -- China, US Federal Reserve and global growth -- begin to dissipate, expect more of the same.”
On Monday, John Williams, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, told Bloomberg in an interview that he believed that the "economy is still on a good trajectory," and that he expected inflation and growth to stabilize, and allow policy makers to make a decision on interest rates soon.
When Manhattan Running Co. decided to buy a building in the northeastern Kansas college town it has called home for seven years, the owners were confronted with a $120,000 renovation. It was hardly a small sum for a new business with just 10 employees, and included in the expense was about $20,000 to make the building wheelchair accessible and compliant with the federal Americans with Disabilities Act building regulations. 
“In a business like ours, we don’t get a lot of people in wheelchairs,” Manhattan Running co-founder Trey Vernon, a former Oklahoma State University runner, said. “We totally support ADA, but it can be difficult for a business of our size to cover the costs. Any kind of break on investments we’re forced to make would help.”
Vernon said his and other small businesses could benefit if state economic development programs paid closer attention to the rewards they bring to communities. Vernon and his business partner Ben Sigle, for instance, participate in dozens of footraces every year in the Kansas-Missouri region. Over the years they’ve helped raise about $250,000 for local charities, according to Vernon.
Vernon and Sigle, both avid runners, are among the millions of U.S. small-business owners who are largely shut out of state economic incentive programs that have a strong bias toward large companies, according to a study released Wednesday by Good Jobs First, a government accountability group that tracks business development incentive programs.
The report analyzed more than 4,200 economic development awards granted to companies in 14 states from 2007 to 2014. The analysis found that 90 percent of the $3.2 billion in economic development grants, tax credits and refunds, property tax abatements and job creation tax credits went to larger companies -- businesses with more than 100 employees, companies with 10 or more establishments, or firms that were not independently and locally owned.
“Given that we found such lopsided favoritism for big business, we recommend that states narrow their eligibility rules and exclude larger companies -- or at the least cap the dollars per company, or dollars per job created,” Greg LeRoy, executive director of Good Jobs First, said. “If you’re a local business, you’re more likely to bank locally, invest locally and be involved in local charity.”

Crucially, the study looked only at programs in which small businesses were eligible. By doing so, it was able to weed out the megadeals states typically offer multinationals like aerospace giant Boeing and German automaker Daimler. The research focused on programs ostensibly available to independently owned businesses with 100 employees or fewer and with nine or fewer establishments.
The analysis found most states favor big businesses over small in programs designed to help small businesses. According to the U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA), 60 percent of all jobs created since the end of the 2009 Great Recession were created by companies with between 20 and 499 employees.
Topping the list of big-business bias was Indiana’s Hoosier Business Investment Tax Credit, a corporate income tax incentive, and Nevada’s Personal Property Tax Abatement, a 50 percent property tax reduction. In both programs, 96 percent of the total $136.6 million went to businesses with more than 100 employees.
Out of the 14 states, more than half of the economic development funds granted more than 90 percent of their incentive deals to big companies. New York City’s Industrial Development Agencies and Wisconsin’s Economic Development Tax Credit were the most generous to small businesses, granting about 20 percent of their combined $214.7 million to such companies.
Vernon said programs are too focused on job creation and don’t take into account other economic benefits that small businesses like his running shop bring to communities.
“When we first started out, we looked at an SBA loan, but they only looked specifically at how many jobs we would create,” he said. “That’s a big hurdle for small-business loans -- they want to you to create a certain number of jobs, and they ignore other impacts small businesses have on communities.”
British bank Barclays PLC agreed to pay $325 million to resolve two lawsuits related to the sale of residential mortgage-backed securities (RMBS) to now-defunct credit unions in the United States. The bank said it continues to face litigation from similar claims in the U.S.
Barclays said Monday it will include a provision for the settlement in its third-quarter results, which the bank will report Oct. 29. According to the National Credit Union Agency (NCUA), Barclays is settling without admitting any wrongdoing. Monday’s settlements will bring the agency’s recoveries linked to RMBS sales by various banks to $2.2 billion.
"The agency has a statutory obligation to secure recoveries for credit unions and ensure that consumers remain protected, and we take that responsibility very seriously,” Debbie Matz, NCUA chairwoman, said in a news release, according to the New York Times.
Barclays underwrote about $39 billion in mortgage securities in the U.S. between 2005 and 2008, according to a company statement in July.
NCUA, which regulates federal credit unions, has brought several lawsuits against companies over securities sold to credit unions that failed during the financial crisis, according to Reuters. 
U.S. bank Wachovia, now part of Wells Fargo & Co, also reached a settlement of $53 million with the credit union regulator over RMBS sales to credit unions, the New York Times reported.
The NCUA had sued Barclays Capital, the bank's U.S. unit, in 2012, accusing it of making false statements in offering documents for mortgage-backed securities sold to U.S. credit unions. Wachovia was accused of similar practices in a 2011 lawsuit by the NCUA, which has accused other banks of underwriting securities that misled the buyers, the Telegraph reported.
The NCUA said it continues to pursue lawsuits against other banks, according to Reuters, including Goldman Sachs Group, Credit Suisse and Morgan Stanley. Banks like JPMorgan Chase & Co, Citigroup and Bank of America have already paid settlements to the regulator.
Barclays stock closed 1.54 percent up on the London Stock Exchange Monday.
Germany's largest lender Deutsche Bank AG mistakenly sent $6 billion to an American hedge fund client in June, Financial Times reported Monday. The error, which was resolved in a day, brought the investment bank’s operational and risk-control deficiencies under the scanner.
The incident happened at the bank’s London-based foreign exchange team where a junior member carried out the $6 billion trade while his boss was on holiday, Financial Times reported, quoting two people familiar with the matter. Rather than trading a net value, the worker incorrectly processed a gross amount, the report added. That meant the trade had “too many zeroes,” one of the people told the newspaper.
Deutsche Bank reportedly declined to comment on the issue.
Bank errors between $50,000 and $100,000 happen at times, a former senior trader at Deutsche Bank’s rival bank told the Wall Street Journal. These lapses can impact the market. However, it remained unclear whether the bank’s June error affected any currency prices.
The error has come to the public eye when the Frankfurt-based bank is marred with scandals that have triggered high-level management changes. Deutsche Bank said its investment bank will be divided into two units, and its asset and wealth management division will be split into separate entities.
In June, the bank’s two co-chief executives Anshu Jain and Juergen Fitschen resigned following missed profit targets and slip-ups, and were replaced by new co-CEO John Cryan. The bank is reportedly surrounded in about 6,000 legal cases and received a record $2.5 billion fine in May for its role in manipulating interest rates.
About 100 mostly elderly South Koreans will be in the North today through Thursday for a reunion with relatives they haven't seen since the Korean War in the 1950s in the first such meeting since 2010. The South Koreans are traveling by bus to Mount Kumgang for what will likely be the last time the relatives meet because there are more than 65,000 on the waiting list, Agence France-Presse reported.
For some, it is their first time to meet. Others are meeting relatives they thought were dead. Reuters says there will be 90 from the South and 96 from the North.
Some of the South Koreans use wheelchairs and their convoy is accompanied by ambulances, as many of them are in their 80s and 90s. They will meet their relatives for just two hours twice a day, bringing gifts, clothes, medicine, food and cash -- items that illustrate how rich South Korea has become while North Korea struggles.
The first such reunion happened in 1985 and became more regular after 2000, with 18 held between then and 2010, according to the South Korean government's official website. North Korea canceled a 2013 meeting just days before it was scheduled, to protest South Korean media coverage of the North, according to the Wall Street Journal.
This year's reunion was arranged as part of a deal to end a confrontation in August and was almost canceled after South Korean President Park Geun-hye called on the North to stop developing nuclear weapons and to improve human rights, the Journal said.
North Korean leader Kim Jong Un has used the reunions as leverage to demand South Korea cancel military exercises, and to get economic concessions as exports to China, its biggest trading partner, fall amid China's slowing growth, the Journal said.
BY Greg Roumeliotis
(Reuters) -- Blackstone Group LP is nearing a deal to acquire Manhattan's Stuyvesant Town-Peter Cooper Village apartment complex for around $5.3 billion, according to a person familiar with the matter who was not authorized to discuss it publicly.
The deal would put Manhattan's biggest apartment complex in the hands of the world's largest private equity firm, and end five years of squabbling and litigation that have held up a sale of the property. 
Stuyvesant Town, a sprawling complex of 56 high-rise brick buildings with a private park on 80 acres on Manhattan's East Side, was at the center of a $3 billion default five years ago.
CWCapital Asset Management LLC, a special servicer representing bondholders, took control of the complex in 2010 after its owners missed a debt payment.
The roughly 11,000-apartment complex was sold by MetLife Inc to Tishman Speyer Properties L.P. and an affiliate of BlackRock Inc for a record $5.4 billion at the top of the commercial real estate market in 2007.
Blackstone declined to comment on Monday. CWCapital was not immediately available for comment.
(Reporting by Gregory Roumeliotis in New York and Rishika Sadam in Bengaluru; Editing by Richard Chang, Bernard Orr)
By Caroline Humer
(Reuters) -- Valeant Pharmaceuticals International Inc, which has been criticized for raising drug prices and is being investigated by the U.S. government, predicted on Monday that lower price increases are ahead for the whole industry.
Valeant Chief Executive J. Michael Pearson told investors the company's 2016 outlook is based on expectations for a new pricing environment where none of its drugs have an actual price increase of more than 10 percent.
Valeant shares fell 7.7 percent, or $13.73, to close at $163.83 on the New York Stock Exchange.
Concerns about drug pricing have loomed over pharmaceutical stocks since last year and the sector's shares have fallen sharply in the past few weeks since Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton criticized the price rises on the campaign trail.
"The pharmaceutical industry is being aggressively sort of attacked for past pricing actions," Pearson said. "I do think, given that environment, the pricing that pharmaceutical companies will take in the future will be more modest."
Valeant, which has become one of the world's largest drug companies through a steady stream of acquisitions, and others have been criticized for acquiring companies and raising the prices of drugs in order to boost profits. Federal prosecutors in New York and Massachusetts opened investigations into the company, asking for information about price increases as well as the workings of its patient assistance programs for poor people to access its drugs.
Pearson said Valeant was unlikely to look for acquisitions based on what he called mispriced assets, or drugs with prices that can be significantly increased because of their value to health care.
"Given the evolution of our product mix, coupled with the recent events, it is likely that we will pursue fewer, if any, transactions that are focused on mispriced products," he said.
Valeant is also considering selling, spinning off or taking private its neurological and other pharmaceutical business, a move one Wall Street analyst described as paving the way for Valeant's business model to be less controversial.
The neurological business accounts for most of Valeant's price actions and realized price increases on average of more than 30 percent, JP Morgan analyst Chris Schott wrote in a research note. He estimated it to make up about 10 percent of the company's revenues.
The move would fit into a strategy that Pearson said has already been underway. Valeant has begun during the past two years to increase sales volumes as a percentage of growth compared with price increases.
"We'll just be pragmatic and why focus on areas of the business that is just going to create a lot of media stir," he added, referring to the recent wave of negative publicity over steep price increases for older medicines.
Pearson said the company would begin to focus more on research and development, on which it historically has spent little. Last year the company spent $100 million on R&D and it sees that growing to $400 million to $500 million in 2016, with a focus on dermatology, contact lenses and surgical sectors.
Pearson indicated Valeant is scaling back on acquisitions, saying that while it continues to look at them, buying back shares may make more sense with the company's stock at its current price.
Valeant reported unexpectedly better quarterly profits earlier on Monday.
(Additional reporting by Bill Bekrot in New York and Ankur Banerjee in Bengaluru; editing by Paul Simao and Grant McCool)
By Shinici Saoshiro
TOKYO (Reuters) -- Asian equities dipped early on Tuesday after commodity prices slid in wake of China growth woes and dampened risk sentiment, while the euro hovered near a 10-day low ahead of a European Central Bank meeting that could open the door for more monetary easing.
MSCI's broadest index of Asia-Pacific shares outside Japan shed 0.3 percent. Australian stocks lost 0.2 percent as worries about China weighed on mining and energy stocks following Monday's China GDP data.
"The official GDP figures (released on Monday) show growth slowed to 6.9% y/y in Q3, down from 7.0% y/y in both Q1 and Q2. Unfortunately, these figures need to be taken with a pinch of salt," economists at Capita Economics wrote.
"Flaws with how the GDP deflator is calculated, along with political pressure to meet growth targets that have become increasingly at risk, have meant that official growth rates have not slowed as quickly as most third party measures of growth in recent years."
Three-month copper on the London Metal Exchange was 1.5 percent down at $5,206 a ton, while Brent crude oil sank 3 percent overnight as the China GDP added to concerns toward the world's second largest economy.
The slide in crude weighed on commodity currencies such as the Canadian dollar, which faced extra pressure as voters in Canada appeared set to elect a candidate as prime minister who plans to run deficits to increase infrastructure spending.
The loonie stood little changed at C$1.3024 to the dollar after slumping 0.9 percent overnight.
Elsewhere in currencies, the euro struggled as investors braced for the ECB potentially flagging additional easing measures when its policymakers meet on Thursday.
The common currency was little changed at $1.1327 after reaching a 10-day trough of $1.1306.
The dollar was nearly flat at 119.54 yen while the dollar index also held steady at 94.942 after a 0.2 percent gain overnight.
Following a 2-day surge, the S&P 500 and the Dow .DJI ended nearly flat on Monday as advances in top tech and biotech names were offset by caution at the start of a heavy week of earnings.
(Reporting by Shinichi Saoshiro; Editing by Eric Meijer)
(Reuters) -- United Continental Holdings Inc. said late Monday that its general counsel Brett Hart would take over as acting chief executive officer while CEO Oscar Munoz goes on medical leave, following a heart attack he suffered last week.
United, the second-largest U.S. airline by capacity, said the change was effective immediately. It said it is too soon to know the course of treatment Munoz will take or the timing of his recovery.
In a news release, Hart vowed to continue an agenda Munoz has set to improve customer service, employee teamwork and innovation. Munoz, 56, assumed the top job at United last month and met with workers and air travelers across the United States for input on how to improve the airline.
Hart, who joined United in 2010, was responsible for government and regulatory affairs, corporate real estate, security and customer experience in his prior role of executive vice president and general counsel, United said.
The news marks the second leadership transition at United in the past two months. Munoz became CEO in September after Jeff Smisek resigned from the job in relation to internal and federal probes into United's relationship with the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey.
The news also marks the first acknowledgement by the company that Munoz suffered a heart attack on Thursday.
(Reporting by Ankit Ajmera in Bengaluru and Jeffrey Dastin in New York; Additional reporting by Ross Kerber; Editing by Jeffrey Benkoe, Christian Plumb and Bernard Orr)
UPDATE: 1 a.m. EDT -- The death toll from Koppu rose to 22 as more reports came in from northern Philippines, Agence France-Presse reported. 
Meanwhile, the one-time supertyphoon, now classified as a tropical storm, weakened further, with winds of 85 kilometers per hour, according to the national weather agency.
Original story:
Koppu weakened from typhoon to tropical storm even as some areas of northern Philippines remained flooded, and authorities warned flooding and landslides could worsen. As of 4 a.m., local time Tuesday, Koppu's winds slowed to 95 kilometers per hour (59 mph) as its center left the main Philippine island of Luzon, the Philippine Atmospheric, Geophysical and Astronomical Services Administration said. Its winds were as strong as 185 kph (115 mph) just before hitting land Sunday.
Aside from weakening, it is now forecast to turn east into the Pacific Ocean in the next few days, sparing Taiwan, the U.S. Navy Joint Typhoon Warning Center predicted.
Sixteen people were dead and more than 60,000 forced to evacuate, Agence France-Presse reported. The worst single incident reported so far was the drowning of seven people on a ferry that capsized off the island of Guimaras Sunday. The casualty report may climb as information comes in from remote areas, or areas where transport and communication have been cut off.
Authorities warned people in evacuation centers not to return to their homes, saying even if rains have abated, the water they left in the mountains will flow down for days, ABS-CBN News said.
Rice and other crops were destroyed, and farm animals were killed by the wind, rains and floods, the Philippine Daily Inquirer and other media reported. The typhoon hit regions considered among the country's biggest sources of rice, the country's staple. That could revive inflation, which is low, or even increase world prices. The Philippines is one of the world's biggest importers of the grain.
By Sneha Banerjee and Kanika Sikka
(Reuters) -- Halliburton Co, the world's No.2 oilfield services provider, reported a bigger-than-expected 36 percent drop in quarterly revenue, hurt by weak drilling and pricing in North America.
Halliburton and bigger rival Schlumberger Ltd's disappointing results highlight the struggles of the oil and gas industry, which is seeing little hope of a rebound in crude oil prices.
The outlook for the battered industry continues to look gloomy even as Venezuela, an OPEC partner, plans to set a price band of $70 per barrel to stabilize the oil market.
Analysts have said the plan would be doomed from the start as Saudi Arabia, the group's de facto leader, has so far shown zero interest in returning to a strategy of supporting prices.
Brent oil was down 3.1 percent at $48.87 per barrel on Monday.
Halliburton further cut its 2015 capital budget by $200 million to $2.4 billion and said it had reduced global headcount by 21 percent since the beginning of the year.
The company also said fourth-quarter revenue and margins were likely to be flat to modestly low compared with the prior quarter.
"In North America, the prospects of reduced borrowing capacity for operators in a prolonged holiday season make the fourth quarter challenging and difficult to predict," Halliburton's acting CFO Christian Garcia, said.
Chief Executive David Lesar said he expected customer budgets to reload in the first quarter, leading to a recovery in the second half of 2016.
However, industry leader Schlumberger, which posted a 33 percent drop in quarterly revenue last week, said it did not expect a recovery in demand before 2017.
Halliburton's revenue in North America almost halved to $2.49 billion in the third quarter. The region accounts for about half of the company's total revenue.
The company said it was working on getting regulatory approvals for its acquisition of smaller rival Baker Hughes Inc (BHI.N).
Halliburton's revenue fell to $5.58 billion from $8.70 billion.
Net loss was $54 million, or 6 cents per share, attributable to the company, compared with a year-earlier profit, as it took charges related to asset write-offs and severance costs.
Excluding items, Halliburton earned 31 cents per share.
Analysts on average had expected a profit of 27 cents per share and revenue of $5.64 billion, according to Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S.
Halliburton's shares were down nearly 2 percent at $37.05 in morning trading on the New York Stock Exchange.
(Reporting by Sneha Banerjee and Kanika Sikka, additional reporting by Amrutha Gayathri in Bengaluru; Editing by Anil D'Silva and Kirti Pandey)
SAN FRANCISCO (Reuters) -- Despite strong headwinds from overseas that are holding down U.S. inflation, the Federal Reserve should soon begin to raise interest rates to slow down economic growth before it becomes unsustainable, a top Fed official said on Monday.
"I do see the time to start raising rates in the near future, from my perspective," San Francisco Fed President John Williams said in an interview on Bloomberg TV.
The U.S. economy will probably grow about 2 percent or 2.25 percent next year, he forecast, fast enough to push the unemployment rate "well below" 5 percent and begin to push inflation back up toward the Fed's 2-percent goal.
Although rate rises should be gradual so as to continue to pull more sidelined workers back into the labor force and push up lackluster wage growth, he said, "we don't want to run a high-pressure economy forever, because we've seen in the '90s and 2000s, that when you get an unsustainable economy, that eventually things go wrong, so we want to avoid that."
Investors worldwide have expressed frustration over the mixed messages from the U.S. central bank in recent weeks. Fed Chair Janet Yellen and other officials have said they expect a rate hike will be needed by the end of this year, but two Fed governors last week urged caution. The Fed has kept interest rates near zero for nearly seven years.
Asked if Yellen has a mutiny on her hands over the rate hike decision, Williams said "absolutely not." The decision, he said, will be based on the economic data, which has lately been "all over the map." With good arguments both for and against raising rates, he said, the decision has been, and remains, a "close call."
Williams declined to say when he personally would like to see the Fed begin to normalize policy, although he did appear more cautious than supportive about keeping rates low for much longer.
"As the economy gets stronger, has gotten stronger, we don’t really need all that accommodation going forward, and I think that there are some costs to having very low interest rates," he said.
Williams, who is a voter on the Fed's policy-setting panel through the end of the year, refused to rule out next week's meeting for a rate hike, saying he would listen to his colleagues' views when they meet in Washington next Tuesday and Wednesday.
(Reporting by Ann Saphir; Editing by Chizu Nomiyama)
Tech bellwether IBM, which is struggling to transform itself from a manufacturer of old-line hardware for corporate data centers to a provider of cloud and analytics services, on Monday reported lower-than-expected sales for the third quarter, but earnings beat analysts’ forecasts. The company was hard hit by the economic slowdown in Asia and plummeting demand for its server products.
Revenue for the period came in at $19.28 billion, down 1 percent year over year and below analysts’ expectations of $19.62 billion. Net income fell 11 percent to $3.3 billion, while earnings per share were off 9 percent, to $3.34 billion. Analysts surveyed by Thomson Financial were expecting EPS of $3.30.
“IBM faces a painful, multiyear turnaround, which leads to a prolonged period of underperformance,” said Credit Suisse analyst Kulbinder Garcha in a note to clients.
IBM in recent years has been selling off low-margin hardware businesses, including PCs and Intel-based servers, to emphasize products and services that support new-wave IT architectures like the cloud, social networks, analytics and Watson-based cognitive computing. The company’s hope is that clients in industries ranging from healthcare to banking are willing to spend more on products and services that help them make sense of vast troves of customer data.
The good news for Big Blue is that those efforts are starting to pay off. Revenue from what the company calls its “strategic imperatives” grew 27 percent.
“In the third quarter we again made progress in the transformation of our business to higher value, with strong growth in our strategic imperatives and expanded operating margins,” said CEO Ginni Rometty, in a statement.
Those parts of the business, however, are not growing fast enough to offset declines in IBM’s traditional product lines. Sales of server hardware fell 39 percent year over year, to $1.5 billion. Software sales were down 10 percent, to $5.1 billion, while services revenues were off 10 percent, to $4.2 billion.
IBM also is facing geographic headwinds. Sales from the Asia-Pacific region fell 19 percent in the quarter. Revenue from the so-called BRIC countries (Brazil, Russia, India and China) were down 30 percent.
IBM said it expects earnings per share for the full, 2015 calendar year to come in at between $14.75 and $15.75. IBM shares (NYSE:IBM) were down 3.5 percent in after-hours trading.
Ahmed Mohamed, the Texas teenager who became a household name following his arrest last month over a supposed homemade clock he brought to his school, was expected to take up President Barack Obama’s invitation to visit the White House Monday night. Mohamed, who is not expected to meet with the commander-in-chief personally, will be among the participants in the White House’s second Astronomy Night, which brings together students, scientists and educators to talk about space.
The 14-year-old Mohamed, who was arrested while wearing a NASA T-shirt, wasn't expected to have his clock in tow for the evening event on the White House lawn. He might have dashed any hopes of meeting the president after he met last week with Sudanese dictator and accused war criminal Omar al-Bashir in Khartoum.
"We think Ahmed will fit right in [at the event]," D.J. Patil, chief data scientist for the White House, said in September, according to an AOL.com report. More than 100 teens from around the country have been invited to attend the stargazing event, which has in previous years been hosted on the nearby National Mall.
 
Obama will not meet Ahmed Mohamed when he comes to the White House reveals @pressec but still reporter asks if there are &quot;security concerns&quot;
&mdash; Dan Roberts (@RobertsDan) October 19, 2015

 
The trip to the nation's capital won’t be all educational for the aspiring engineer, as Mohamed was also scheduled to meet Tuesday with U.S. Rep. Mike Honda, a Democrat who represents part of California’s Silicon Valley high-tech hub. Honda wrote to U.S. Attorney General Loretta Lynch following Mohamed’s Sept. 14 arrest, asking that she investigate its circumstances.
Mohamed, a freshman, brought a briefcase containing a digital clock that had been disassembled and rearranged to MacArthur High School in the Dallas suburb of Irving, Texas, according to authorities. The device caught the attention of the teen’s English teacher, who confiscated the briefcase and phoned police.
Mohamed endured hours of questioning at a nearby juvenile detention facility, during which he was asked if he attempted to make a bomb and intentionally cause alarm at his school. The teen was released to his parents and was not charged with any crime. But Muslim rights activists said the incident was another case of Islamophobia, in which Mohamed’s Muslim faith and his name influenced school officials’ assumptions about the teen’s actions.
Honda and Mohamed were expected to hold a press conference Tuesday morning to discuss their concerns about the teen's arrest, representatives for the congressman said in a statement. Since his story emerged, Mohamed has received invitations to visit or intern with some of the country’s top tech companies in California, including Twitter and Facebook.
 
American women who have lost their desire for sex can now walk into a doctor’s office and ask for a pink pill called Addyi to resurrect it. But despite all the hype around the drug's market introduction, women won’t be bombarded with television, radio, print or digital advertising from the drug's maker for at least 18 months. The company, Sprout Pharmaceuticals, has pledged to postpone all paid advertising for more than a year to temper the U.S. Food and Drug Administration's concerns about the drug’s safety.
Sales of Addyi launched nationwide on Saturday. Sprout, based in Raleigh, N.C., said the highly anticipated medicine is meant to help the estimated 16 million American women who suffer from a form of low sexual desire known as hypoactive sexual desire disorder (HSDD). Supporters have applauded the drug’s arrival as the dawn of a new era for women’s sexual health, and execu`ives at Canadian pharmaceutical giant Valeant Pharmaceuticals found it intriguing enough in August to pay $1 billion for Sprout.
The company's promise to regulators does not prohibit it from getting the word out about Addyi through other popular channels, however, and Sprout’s willingness to engage potential customers through social media, interviews with media outlets and key influencers signals the upending of traditional pharmaceutical marketing strategy.
“I think what they’re doing is pretty clever, actually,” Dan Leinweber, president at a boutique PR firm called Leinweber Associates, said. “This is a much less costly way to get their word out in a much more credible way.”
Sprout won FDA approval of Addyi in August after a long and hard fight following two previous rejections. Selling a drug it cannot advertise in a brand new market is the company’s next big challenge. Addyi is meant for women who struggle with HSDD, characterized by a sudden loss of sexual desire that cannot be explained by other factors such as anxiety or relationship problems. The drug is similar to an antidepressant in that it adjusts brain chemicals including serotonin that are thought to be associated with sexual drive.
Since Addyi is the first pill to treat any form of low sexual desire, most women don’t know that such treatment is available. Viagra was also a brand new drug in a new class of sexual medicine when it debuted in 1998. Since then, Viagra has been one of the most heavily advertised drugs in the world and earned handsome profits for Pfizer. The company spent $232 million on advertising Viagra in 2014 alone. At its peak, Viagra brought in $2 billion in revenue in 2012.  
Other pharmaceutical companies are spending more and more on consumer advertising as Sprout holds back. The U.S. and New Zealand remain the only two countries in the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), a coalition of 34 advanced and emerging nations, to permit pharmaceutical companies to advertise medicine to consumers. Globally, drug companies spent $4.53 billion on such advertising efforts in 2014, up 18 percent from the year before.
Addyi hit pharmacy shelves nationwide Saturday, but Sprout Pharmaceuticals has pledged not to advertise it to consumers for at least 18 months. Photo: Sprout Pharmaceuticals
New Age Of Marketing
Sprout can still find creative ways to spread the word about Addyi without relying on traditional media buys. The company has already demonstrated its skill at drumming up grassroots support among potential customers. It sponsors a nonprofit called Even the Score that sent women to testify before the FDA and accuse the agency of sexism for failing to give Addyi a green light after approving drugs to treat common sexual problems in men such as erectile dysfunction.
Sprout will continue to promote Addyi through partnerships with groups such as Even the Score, though the group is careful to say it does not support one treatment over another. A day before the drug’s first sales, Even the Score posted a flashback photo of women who spoke out in support of the drug to its Facebook page. It also published a YouTube video that does not mention Addyi by name but mimics a Viagra advertisement soon after the new drug’s approval.
Leinweber also says granting interviews to major media outlets over the course of the next 18 months could help the company spread the message about Addyi without spending a penny on radio or television ads.
“It'll get people talking about the brand, not just consumers but key influencers like physicians and people who would prescribe it,” he said. “In effect, this sort of online word of mouth will effectively function as nonpaid advertising and drive traffic to their website and then stimulate customer engagement and sentiment with Addyi.” 
Sprout CEO Cindy Whitehead appeared on many morning shows and news broadcasts in the days after Addyi's approval in August. Sprout also maintains a website for the drug and runs several social media accounts though there was no mention of Addyi’s launch on the company’s Facebook page or sparingly used Twitter account.
Addyi is the first drug to treat any form of low sexual desire in men or women, and is thought to work by adjusting levels of the neurotransmitter serotonin in the brain. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration approved it on Aug. 18, 2015.  Photo: Sprout Pharmaceuticals
News of the new drug can also effectively spread by word of mouth -- particularly with the help of outspoken supporters, of which Sprout has plenty. Amanda Parrish, 52, of Nashville, Tennessee, participated in a clinical trial for Addyi and was so satisfied with her results, she began speaking widely about her experience with help from Sprout’s media team. She posted an update Saturday titled “ADDYI is AVAILABLE” to her personal blog, which read “I’ve got mine -- do you have yours??”
However, word of mouth could backfire if those who try the drug find it to be underwhelming. In clinical trials, the daily pill boosted the number of sexually satisfying experiences that women had by 1.6 to 2.5 per month. There was a strong placebo effect detected in the trial, and only 9 percent to 15 percent of women experienced improvement in three outcomes above and beyond what could be explained by a placebo.
“I think a lot of people will maybe try it once and be like, ‘OK, I don't feel anything,’ ” said Max Jacobs, a biotech analyst at Edison Investment Research. “That’s bad word of mouth.”
Physician Outreach
Since women can also learn about the medicine through their doctors, Sprout has hired and trained around 150 sales representatives, which is common practice within the pharmaceutical industry. This group will visit doctors’ offices nationwide and walk prescribers through a brief online course about Addyi's risks that the FDA requires as an extra measure of caution for this medicine. Monday was the first day the sales force hit the road. Representatives initially are to reach out to obstetrician-gynecologists before expanding to psychiatrists.
Still, Jacobs said he wouldn’t count on Addyi generating more than $50 million in annual sales, which is far below some early projections that topped $1 billion. He said Sprout faces an uphill battle in not only spreading the word to potential patients, but also in persuading doctors the drug is safe and effective. The FDA issued a black box warning for the drug, cautioning patients not to consume alcohol while on it because some patients who drank alcohol and took the drug during clinical trials experienced a drop in blood pressure and fainted. 
“I think it’s going to be very difficult for a physician to say, ‘Hey, I think you should try this’ because there are all the safety risks, and it's probably not going to work and the data just aren’t very impressive,” he said.
Chinese President Xi Jinping was set to arrive in London Monday as Britain prepared to welcome him with a lavish visit, complete with ceremonial parades, lodging at Buckingham Palace and a state dinner hosted by Queen Elizabeth. Amid the pomp of Xi’s visit, British economic authorities were set to push for increased foreign investment and trade with China, looking to become the Asian market's "best partner in the West," according to one member of the British treasury.
Despite China's economic slowdown, British authorities have continued to seek stronger economic ties with the Asian nation, noting that it represents nearly a quarter of the world's growth. The strategic move comes as U.S. officials have warned of Chinese human rights violations; as Latin American and African nations struggle to recover after leaning heavily on investment from Beijing; and as other European nations, particularly wealthy Switzerland, compete for China's attention. Still, increased trade in China is likely a safe investment for Britain, experts said, as China remains strong despite slow growth, charging ahead as the world’s second-largest economy.
Economic relations between the U.K. and China have skyrocketed over the past 10 years, with Chinese investment in the U.K. increasing to $8.5 billion in 2014, up from just $510 million in 2011. The U.K. attracted $12 billion in Chinese investment in 2013, more than France and Germany combined. Much of that money has been put to work in public works projects, with high investments from China in railroads and nuclear power in particular. China, in turn, became the U.K.'s sixth-largest goods export market in 2014, up from 14th in 2003, with London largely exporting to Beijing agricultural products, and services, particularly in the financial sector. 
The Chinese president said in an interview with Reuters Saturday he looks forward to solidifying his nation's growing trade relationship with the U.K. during his upcoming visit. “I hope this will chart the course for the future growth of China-U.K. relations, inject new impetus in practical cooperation between our two countries in all fields and enable us to jointly usher in a ‘golden time,’” Xi said in a written statement.
Chinese President Xi Jingping said in an interview Saturday with Reuters he looks forward to a "golden era" of relations with the U.K. Photo: Getty Images
China transformed from a relatively isolationist country throughout the second half of the 20th century into the second-largest economy in the world by 2010 through rapid industrialization. China represents more than 16 percent of the world’s GDP, making it a powerhouse of industry and an attractive trading partner.
As a result of this breakneck growth pace, Chinese companies and individuals have been able to invest more easily in both the public and private sector of foreign countries, including in the U.K., where the public sector has struggled to recover from a continentwide recession in 2008 that sank the euro and plummeted foreign investment. Though the U.K. has recovered more rapidly than debt-ridden Greece or Italy, for instance, London's public deficit remains high.
After China expressed an interest in investing in the U.K.’s infrastructure, particularly in the transportation and power sectors, economic relations between the two nations has steadily grown in the past five years. Britain is now China’s second-largest trading partner, after the United States, and Chinese investment in the U.K. has increased by an average of 71.7 percent each year over the past three years.
Warming relations between the two countries could become a point of contention for several of the U.K.’s close allies, such as the United States, that have criticized the Chinese government's abuses of human rights, including torture and imprisonment of political dissenters.
“[There are] worries of doing business with a totalitarian, expansionist government,” Steve Coulter, an expert in political economy at the London School of Economics, said. He added that the trade relationship raises the question: Is this going to constrain our foreign policy in the future? 
The U.K. has looked to increase trade with China, particularly in terms of financial services. Pictured: the London Stock Exchange in 2013. Photo: AFP/Getty Images
The U.K. is not the only country in Europe attempting to woo Chinese investors. Switzerland has also tried to position itself as an attractive financial partner for China. The Alpine nation is well-known for its banking regulations, which are particularly beneficial to private wealth investment, and China is also a large importer of Swiss luxury goods such as watches and Swiss pharmaceuticals.
Switzerland may be wealthy, but because of its small size, it does not have the financial clout the U.K. does, according to one expert. “I don’t see Switzerland taking over London as a financial hub,” Alessio Terzi, a macroeconomist for the Brussels-based think tank Bruegel, said. 
The U.K. has faced other obstacles to its financial future with China, including a Chinese economic slowdown in August that sent shockwaves through international markets, including in London. Countries in  Africa and  South America were hit particularly hard. China was the No. 1 trading partner for the majority of African economies and several countries in South America, most notably Chile, which lost billions of dollars when the Chinese market tumbled.
Britain has a far more diversified and stable economy than those of South American or African countries, said Terzi, who criticized the short-term thinking of analysts who panicked following the Chinese slowdown.
“One has to look at longer-term dynamics," he said. "We have to forget for one second the recent months of slowdown in China and look at the bigger picture."
Investors will be watching this week as several major tech players, including IBM, Alphabet (formerly known as Google) and Microsoft, release their latest earnings reports. A slowing economy in China, a strong U.S. dollar, and weakening demand for hardware are among the factors that could hit revenue and profits for these technology giants. Although Twitter has cut jobs to maintain its bottom line, analysts say we're not likely to see other companies follow suit. But for the economy as a whole, the reports for the three months ended Sept. 30 could help show whether a global slowdown is taking hold.
China's malaise will be most important to Apple, explained Dan Ives, a technology analyst at FBR Capital. That's because Apple's growth is so dependent on the People's Republic that any movement in its economy will impact the Cupertino, California, gadget maker. "It's more of a focus for Apple investors, because of how China is fuel in the engine for iPhone growth," he said. 
Forrester analyst Andrew Bartels highlighted a secondary impact of a China slowdown, where growth is expected to come in at less than 7 percent this year. "If China slows, that has very negative consequences for countries that export to China," he said. That includes the U.S. and Germany.
The other issue likely to hit revenues is the strong U.S. dollar. This will affect companies that are dependent on exports for a significant chunk of sales as a strong greenback makes U.S. vendors' products more expensive for consumers abroad.
Companies that earn a third or more of their revenue from overseas will be the ones hit here. While Microsoft and select cloud vendors could suffer, Bartels highlighted IBM as a company particularly likely to be stung by a strong dollar.
But that doesn't mean there'll be many unpleasant shocks. Ives said that at this stage, currency headwinds have already been factored in, meaning that a strong dollar is unlikely to produce any major surprises in terms of revenue. "That said, it's a great excuse," he said.
Companies are unlikely to follow in the footsteps of Twitter and make layoffs, however, according to Bartels. Twitter has struggled to work out how to generate revenue, and its issues are somewhat unique. Ives said it's unlikely we'll see any broad cost-cutting measures until 2016, as tech companies look to see whether retail sales will boost revenue in the fourth quarter.
These tech earnings reports will also paint a better picture of how the overall economy is doing, with bellwether IBM, which sells to a broad range of businesses, providing particular insight. The U.S. GDP report is due out at the end of next week. We are likely to be seeing a slight global economic slowdown, said Bartels, but not a major one. "Not a recession, but not a boom," he said.
As U.S. President Barack Obama directed his administration Sunday to prepare to roll back nuclear-related U.S. sanctions on Iran, a similar but separate and potentially far more momentous step was underway nearly 4,000 miles away from the White House. In Brussels, the European Union adopted a legal framework the same day in preparation for lifting its own sanctions that have blocked the Islamic Republic from using a tool vital for anyone hoping to participate in the global economy: the Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunication, better known as Swift.
Iran could see certain sanctions removed as early as a few months from now, following 20 months of negotiations with the group known as the P5+1 – the U.S., Britain, France, Germany, Russia and China – that culminated in the recent historic nuclear accord. But even as Iran begins to head down the path to regaining access to a key part of doing business with the West and perhaps eventually reviving its own economy, its recovery and integration with the global economy is likely to be gradual, if not painstaking.
“One of the most crucial elements that made dealing with Iran very difficult for its trading partners was the inability to use the international banking system,” Farhad Alavi, a Washington, D.C., lawyer and an expert in sanctions law, said. “As Iran gradually enters into the Swift system again, this will grease the wheels of Iran’s trade with the rest of the world, to some extent,” he said.
Swift, a cooperative based in Belgium that is essentially the international system for bank transfers, is required by law to abide by these sanctions. EU regulations passed in March 2012 banned financial messaging providers, the dominant one being Swift, from serving the 30 Iranian banks that had been sanctioned in an effort to choke Iran’s oil industry amid concerns that the country was developing a nuclear weapons program.
A general view of the Arak heavy-water project, 120 miles southwest of Tehran, Jan. 15, 2011.  Photo: Reuters/ISNA/Hamid Forootan
The nuclear accord, reached in July, stipulated that certain sanctions the U.S. and the EU had imposed on Iran would be rolled back if Iran dismantled its nuclear weapons program per the terms of the deal. The process is not an instant one; Sunday marked “Adoption Day,” where EU and U.S. officials took steps to prepare to lift those sanctions, even though they won’t actually be reversed for at least several months, on the day dubbed Implementation Day.
It has been set for whenever the International Atomic Energy Agency, the global nuclear watchdog, verifies the fact that Iran is no longer pursuing a nuclear weapons program. The agency has said it aims to release a report by Dec. 15 that will detail the status of Iran’s alleged attempts to covertly build a nuclear weapon. Some estimates hold that sanctions could remain in place until December or January. Under the nuclear deal, if Iran is suspected to be in violation by attempting to develop nuclear weapons, sanctions would "snap back" into place 30 days after the initial suspicion.
“For the time being, all the current EU sanctions remain in place, including measures prohibiting companies such as Swift from providing specialized financial messaging services to EU-sanctioned Iranian banks,” Swift noted in a statement on its website in July after the accord was reached.
How will lifting sanctions on Iran impact the global economy? @WorldBank take on oil &amp; beyond: http://t.co/sl9BlNT3o1 pic.twitter.com/5TSSwDsX2g
&mdash; Jaana Remes (@JaanaRemes) August 14, 2015
Banking transactions are crucial in several ways. Not only can they hamper what, in countries with access to Swift, would be a relatively straightforward transaction, they can also forcefully deter countries from doing business with Iran in the first place. After EU sanctions fell into place in 2012, imports to the EU from Iran fell from more than 17 billion euros in 2011 to 1.2 billion euros in 2014, Bloomberg has reported, citing the EU statistics office.
A hypothetical transaction might involve the following: Because funds cannot be wired out of Iran, in order to get paid, a business trying to move money out of Iran would have to find a company with branches in Iran and outside the country. The non-Iranian branch could be used to settle accounts, albeit for transactions in Iran.
Even under sanctions, it is, in fact, legal to do business, in certain sectors, such as pharmaceuticals, with Iran. But when companies choose to do legal business with Iran, they are forced to adopt roundabout approaches to settle accounts that also appear suspiciously opaque, Alawi explained.
“Financing and logistics are at the crux of all business,” Alavi said. “You could have no limitation on anything, but if you have limitations on banking, and shipping and insurance, that will be a huge damper on trade.”
Persian carpet dealers were among those hit hard by sanctions against Iran, including the banning of Iranian banks from the world's largest electronic payments system, SWIFT. Pictured: The showroom of an Iranian seller in the historical district of "Speicherstadt" (warehouse depot), in Hamburg, April 17, 2012.  Photo: Reuters
That logistical nightmare alone is enough to deter companies from doing legal business with entities in Iran. There’s also the rules regarding what constitutes legal -- confusing enough to companies and banks that they would prefer not to deal with Iran altogether, Alavi said.
For businesses and financial institutions that don’t get it right, the consequences can be severe. In 2014, the U.S. fined BNP Paribas SA, the French bank, $9 billion for violating international sanctions, including those against Iran.
“Banks don’t want to comb through every transaction and say, ‘This is legal, this is not,’” Alavi said. “They just say, ‘We don’t want to do it.’” That uncertainty won't likely dissipate the moment Adoption Day arrives, he added, and banks won’t dive headfirst into doing business with Iranian counterparts.
Nevertheless, Iran still has the second-largest GDP in the Middle East as well as the second-largest population. If sanctions relief is ultimately implemented, Iran has a great deal of attractions Western banks and companies, from its thriving middle-class consumers to a potentially booming tourism industry, and gaining Swift access is a crucial first step for companies that want in. 
U.S. regulators are hitting Chicago trader Igor Oystacher and his firm 3Red Trading LLC with charges of manipulating several futures markets. The charges follow a yearslong Commodity Futures Trading Commission investigation of Oystacher's alleged use of a disruptive trading technique known as spoofing.
The alleged manipulation is outlined in a criminal complaint unsealed Monday by the CFTC, which describes the firm placing large numbers of orders on one side of a futures trade to the extent that the price moves, then canceling the orders and quickly trading on the artificial price difference. 
According to the complaint, Oystacher was often the single largest trader in contracts for Standard & Poor's 500 futures, natural gas futures and copper futures, among other contracts, "despite the presence of thousands of other traders in these markets." The complaint describes 3Red carrying out more than 5,000 spoof orders from December 2011 to January 2014, involving nearly 360,000 underlying contracts -- orders that were usually canceled in less than a second.
Regulators have put increasing effort into cracking down on spoofing in futures markets, an activity that raises regular complaints among other market participants. Though the practice goes back decades, new technologies have given traders the power to engage in high-intensity spoofing that has the potential to shake markets. The CFTC claimed the effects of Oystacher's alleged trading strategies "pose a serious threat to the integrity of the markets for these futures contracts." 
In April the U.S. Justice Department charged Navinder Sarao, an obscure British trader, with spoofing S&P 500 futures on the day of the so-called flash crash, a market disturbance that saw $1 trillion of value disappear in a matter of minutes. Federal regulators, including the CFTC, suggested Sarao's alleged trading that day helped trigger the market gyrations, a contention that some have criticized. Sarao is just one of a handful of traders to have been charged over the practice.
The exchanges where spoofing occurs most frequently also are attempting to root out the practice. Oystacher had previously paid fines totaling more than $250,000 to the Chicago Mercantile Exchange and Intercontinental Exchange Inc. over disruptive trading allegations. The firm also is embroiled in a lawsuit with a former minority owner.
In a statement, 3Red compliance officer Greg O’Connor said: "The charges are completely without merit.  The CFTC has over-simplified complex trading and is now trying to classify legitimate trading and risk management as a market infraction.  We stand behind the trading at issue as it does not contradict available guidance nor violate the law.  Our firm cooperated with the CFTC throughout its four-year review with the belief that a fair evaluation of the facts would convince the Commission that no charges should be filed. We now look forward to presenting our case before the Court."
The Chinese economy may be slowing, but one bright spot in third-quarter data released Monday is that consumers spent more on retail purchases in September than expected, and this effect was seen in last month’s new-car sales data. Led by demand for Chinese-brand SUVs and minivans, Chinese car buyers ended four consecutive months of pulling back from vehicle purchases.
"Chinese brands have taken the lead in China's SUV market,” Wu Song, general manager of GAC Motor Co., told China Daily. Wu, whose company has joint ventures with Honda, Toyota and Fiat, said consumers in China’s less-developed areas are emerging as a major car market. “The central and western regions, and the counties in [the] eastern region, are the new sources of growth.”
September China new-auto sales totaled 1.75 million units, up 3.3 percent compared to the same month last year. Sales dropped an average of 4.5 percent in the three months that ended in August, after growing at nearly 9 percent a month for the three months that ended in March.

The Chinese auto industry has been hit this year by a slowdown in economic activity and a massive sell-off in mainland stocks, which have lost a third of their value since early June. Lower growth has led to a price war among foreign and domestic automakers. This month, the central government instituted a 50 percent sales tax reduction for small-engine vehicles to spur consumer spending, which should give a boost to small-sedan sales in the coming months.
The best-selling model for the first nine months of the year is the Haval H6 sport utility vehicle made by Great Wall Motors, the privately owned automaker headed by Chinese billionaire Wei Jianjun and the country’s largest domestic SUV maker, according to the China Association of Automobile Manufacturers.
The second-most-popular model so far this year is the Volkswagen Lavida, a compact made specifically for the Chinese market under the German automaker’s joint venture with SAIC Motor, China’s largest domestic car company. In third place is the Wuling Hong Guang, a compact minivan produced under a three-way joint venture among SAIC, Wuling Motors and General Motors.
UPDATE: 1:15 p.m. EDT - The New York Times' executive editor Dean Baquet responded to Carney's post on Medium on Monday afternoon. He defended the paper's reporting and walked through each of Carney's individual criticisms --including the charge of Bo Olson's alleged fraud, which Olson denied to the Times -- concluding that "this story was based on dozens of interviews. And any reading of the responses leaves no doubt that this was an accurate portrait."
Original story:
Jay Carney, senior vice president for global corporate affairs at Amazon.com Inc. and onetime White House press secretary, published on Monday a lengthy rebuttal to a New York Times exposé from August, months after the story kicked off a debate about the reportedly exhausting working conditions for employees at the company.
"When the story came out, we knew it misrepresented Amazon," Carney, who spent years as a reporter for Time magazine, wrote in the piece, posted on Medium. "Once we could look into the most sensational anecdotes, we realized why. We presented the Times with our findings several weeks ago, hoping they might take action to correct the record. They haven’t, which is why we decided to write about it ourselves."
Carney included an email from the lead reporter of the story, Jodi Kantor, complaining that she had misled Amazon about the purpose and angle of the article. "The article she specifically said they were not writing became the article that we all read," he wrote.
In the piece, "Inside Amazon: Wrestling Big Ideas in a Bruising Workplace," the New York Times reported that employees could be seen crying in the office, that they were penalized for taking medical leave or basic vacation days, and that they were unable to disconnect from their work email in their personal lives.
In his Medium post, Carney alleged that Bo Olson, the named employee who produced the quote about workers crying on the job, was discovered as a fraudster.
"[H]is brief tenure at Amazon ended after an investigation revealed he had attempted to defraud vendors and conceal it by falsifying business records. When confronted with the evidence, he admitted it and resigned immediately," Carney wrote. "Why weren’t readers given that information?"
Carney did not mention any further details on Olson, like whether the company reported the alleged crime.
The rebuttal disputed other details in the piece, particularly the portrayal of employees' dissatisfaction despite, according to Amazon, their continuing employment and promotions within the company.
"[H]ad the reporters checked their facts, the story they published would have been a lot less sensational, a lot more balanced, and, let's be honest, a lot more boring," Carney wrote. "It might not have merited the front page, but it would have been closer to the truth."
The share of workers covered by union contracts has fallen worldwide since the Great Recession. Across a sample of 48 nations -- including the United States and countries in Europe, South America and Asia -- collective bargaining coverage dropped 4.6 percent from 2008 to 2013, according to research from the International Labor Organization (ILO), a United Nations agency that sets and monitors global labor standards.
The data is the latest sign of the deep impact of the recent crisis on global labor markets -- so far, most visible in the form of waning public sector employment in much of the industrialized West. The declining reach of collective bargaining agreements -- contracts that tend to generate relatively high wages and benefits -- highlights a closely linked feature of the post-recession turn toward austerity. When confronted with tough economic conditions and mounting government debt, employers have responded by tightening their belts and trimming labor costs.
The steepest declines took place in countries hit hardest by the economic crisis. In Greece, the proportion of workers covered by union-negotiated contracts slid from 85 percent to 40 percent. In Portugal, the rate fell from 82 percent to 67 percent. In Ireland, that number dropped from 39 percent to 32 percent. And in Romania, it fell from 98 percent to 35 percent.
ILO researchers attribute these drops to the shift from nationwide labor agreements to smaller contracts. They also point to the decline in public policies that previously encouraged large bargaining agreements. Greece, for instance, has enacted controversial reforms that weaken sectorwide bargaining as part of its economic bailout packages.
The ILO generally supports union-backed contract negotiations as a means of boosting labor’s share of income.
“Collective bargaining can play a key role in translating growth into social progress,” Philippe Marcadent, an official with the ILO, said Monday.
In many other countries, the share of employees covered by union-negotiated contracts held steady: France and Austria maintained rates of more than 95 percent; the United States slid by a percentage point, to roughly 12 percent; Japan and Argentina both maintained rates near 2008 levels.
The International Labor Organization did not include data from China, which does not allow independent unions.
This story was updated at 4 p.m. EDT
U.S. stocks closed flat Monday as investor sentiment waned amid global growth concerns after China’s economy grew at its slowest pace since the financial crisis. Meanwhile, market professionals continued to weigh mixed corporate earnings after Morgan Stanley posted a 42 percent drop in quarterly profit.
Wall Street is looking ahead to a speech from Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen this week, searching for further clues on the timing of the U.S. central bank’s looming interest rate increase. Yellen is scheduled to speak Tuesday at the Labor Hall of Honor Induction Ceremony in Washington, D.C., at 11 a.m. EDT.
After falling roughly 80 points following the opening bell, the blue-chip Dow traded in a tight range in afternoon trading.  
The Dow Jones Industrial Average (INDEXDJX:.DJI) added 15 points, or 0.08 percent, to close at 17,231. The Standard & Poor's 500 index (INDEXSP:.INX) edged up 0.6 points, or 0.03 percent, to finish at 2,034. The Nasdaq composite (INDEXNASDAQ:.IXIC) rose 19 points, or 0.4 percent, to end at 4,905.
Five of the 10 sectors in the Standard & Poor's 500 index closed lower, led by a 2 percent drop in energy stocks after oil prices fell as much as 3 percent on concerns over the pace of economic growth in China. 
West Texas Intermediate crude, the benchmark for U.S. oil prices, lost 2.9 percent to $45.89 per barrel for November delivery on the New York Mercantile Exchange. On the London ICE Futures Exchange, Brent crude, the global benchmark for oil prices, fell 3.2 percent to $48.80.
Data issued Monday revealed that China decelerated to its slowest pace since the global financial crisis last quarter, raising questions whether the world’s second-largest economy can meet its annual gross domestic product target of about 7 percent.
China’s economy expanded by 6.9 percent in the July-September quarter, down from 7 percent in the prior quarter. But the figure still beat expectations slightly as economists had forecast GDP would grow 6.8 percent in July-September period from a year earlier, according to analysts polled by Thomson Reuters.
The continued steadiness of China’s official GDP figures will further raise concerns over the data’s credibility.
“These figures need to be taken with a grain of salt as official GDP growth appears to have become a poor gauge of the performance of China’s economy,” Julian Evans-Pritchard, China economist at Capital Economics, said in a research note Monday. “We do think the official figures are currently overstating growth by a wide margin; we nonetheless have reason to think that actual growth was indeed broadly stable last quarter.”
Shares of Morgan Stanley (NYSE:MS) sank 5 percent Monday after the sixth-biggest U.S. bank by assets posted third-quarter earnings and revenue that missed Wall Street forecasts, driven by a 17 percent decline in trading revenue. The decline in the bank’s trading unite contributed to a 42 percent drop in profit last quarter.
Notable companies reporting quarterly results after the closing bell include technology company International Business Machines Corp. (NYSE:IBM), which beat estimates in the prior quarter, while revenue fell short of expectations. The company continues to shed unprofitable businesses, such as its chip segment, to focus on cloud-computing initiatives.
The drive to ramp up Apple’s electric car project came at the cost of one electric vehicle startup. That company was Mission Motors, a maker of electric motorcycles, according to Reuters.
In 2013, the company appeared to be on the upswing, with its Mission R motorcycle named one of the 25 best inventions of the year by Time Magazine. But its fortune reversed two years later, with the San Francisco-based company filing for bankruptcy in September. In a letter to the courts, co-founder Mark Seeger admitted Mission Motors was so low in cash that it couldn’t afford to hire an attorney, according to Northjersey.com.
While finding funding for the company was a problem, the departure of several engineers to Apple and other companies accelerated its demise.
"Mission had a great group of engineers, specifically electric drive expertise," former Mission Motors chief executive Derek Kaufman told Reuters. "Apple knew that -- they wanted it, and they went and got it."
As a result of the hires, some investors backed out of a potential funding round.
Mission isn’t the only company that has butt heads with Apple in the electric vehicle space. In May, Apple and battery maker A123 Systems came to a settlement over a lawsuit alleging that Apple poached its battery engineers, violating non-compete agreements, according to the Wall Street Journal. Tesla Motors CEO Elon Musk has also taken pot shots at Apple, calling it the “Tesla Graveyard” in reference to its engineers that left for Apple.
Officially, Apple hasn’t said a word about its electric car project, dubbed “Project Titan.” But in the past year, it has hired a number of automotive and electric vehicle experts. In August, documents obtained by the Guardian also revealed that Apple was scouting locations in the San Francisco Bay area for a venue to test its vehicle.
Christine Gnecco, 28, has been sick at least seven times over the last couple of years -- “two rounds of pink eye, one round of stomach virus and probably four or five upper respiratory infections.” In each case, she’s gone to work, taking orders and serving food at Olive Garden restaurants in Erie and Greensburg, Pennsylvania.
“It’s very expensive to skip work, because we don’t get paid if we’re not at work,” says Gnecco. “I guess it feels like I’m walking away from $150.” (That's what she earns for a typical lunch or dinner shift.)
“You wash your hands constantly, you use hand sanitizer, you try to be very careful not to breathe on the food and of course, too, always avoid sneezing on the food or whatever, but it does feel like ‘I’m going to get someone sick by being at work today,’ and that’s definitely concerning.”
Last winter, an outbreak of pink eye spread quickly among Gnecco and her co-workers. It remains less clear whether she has passed along any of her recent maladies to patrons. “Not that I know of,” she says. “I haven’t gotten any feedback from customers.”
Gnecco’s conduct may seem alarming, gross, risky -- maybe even negligent. In fact, it is remarkably common. According to polling data provided to International Business Times, a majority of food service workers -- 51 percent -- say they go to work “always” or “frequently” when sick. The finding is part of a larger study conducted by the Center for Research and Public Policy for Alchemy Systems, a Texas-based company that consults major farming and food corporations on safety issues. The report echoes prior surveys on the topic.
Of course, the health risk posed by a sick worker depends on the illness. But in general, it’s a problem anytime someone with a contagious sickness is “handling ready-to-eat meals,” says Martin Bucknavage, a food safety expert at Pennsylvania State University.
Among the most serious are Hepatitis A, salmonella and norovirus, especially the latter. Just a handful of particles can spread the virus. All it takes is for a server with norovirus to not wash her hands correctly -- the food she touches can quickly become contaminated, spreading the infection to unsuspecting customers.
Restaurant workers have almost certainly triggered a number of recent high-profile outbreaks. In August, 80 customers and 18 employees at a Ventura County, California Chipotle restaurant fell ill with norovirus; in 2012, 90 people suffered from an outbreak at an Indiana Subway; and nearly a decade ago, nearly 400 patrons of an Olive Garden outside Indianapolis contracted the virus.
According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, infected food workers cause about 70 percent of reported norovirus outbreaks from contaminated food. About 20 million Americans fall sick from the virus every year.
Low Pay And No Paid Sick Leave
Jay Neal, a professor in the college of hotel and restaurant management at the University of Houston, says he isn’t surprised so many food service workers are showing up sick. “People in the food safety community have been talking about this for years,” he says.
That’s in large part because, like Christine Gnecco, many restaurant workers can't absorb the economic cost of staying home. According to the survey, forty-seven percent of those who work sick said they did so because they couldn’t afford to lose pay.
Food service workers are among the lowest paid in the country. Median annual earnings for “combined food preparation and serving workers, including fast food,” according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, are $18,540. Waiters and waitresses take home median pay of $18,680.
And as in other low-paid occupations, paid sick leave is exceedingly rare. McDonald’s Corporation raised eyebrows by unveiling a compensated leave plan earlier this year, but the benefits are meager: An employee working an average of 20 hours a week can accrue 20 hours of paid leave in a year; it applies only to corporate-owned locations, about a tenth of the total restaurants nationwide.
McDonald’s, Starbucks, Burger King, Darden, which owns Olive Garden, and Yum Brands, which owns KFC, Taco Bell and Pizza Hut, did not respond to requests for comment.

Neal also says the problem stems from tight scheduling practices. Restaurant managers often do not have another person who can easily replace an employee who catches something before a shift. And since many bosses don't take the safety hazards of a sick worker as seriously as they ought to, they don’t encourage that employee who feels a bit woozy to stay home.
Food workers also worry about the burden a potential absence puts on their fellow employees. According to the study, fifty percent said they showed up sick because they didn’t want to let co-workers down.
“A lot of them have a deep sense of loyalty to their job, not necessarily to the leadership, but to the team, their co-workers,” says Neal.
Bucknavage, the food safety expert at Pennsylvania State University, says restaurants should improve training programs to better communicate the hazards of working sick near food. He also says paid sick leave could be an option.
“It’s something that needs to be considered,” he says. “The question is how do you incentivize somebody to stay home when they’re ill? It’s certainly a strategy to do it.”
SHANGHAI -- Chinese President Xi Jinping will receive a warm welcome on this week's state visit to the U.K., with the British government saying it wants to be China’s “best partner” in the West. Concrete proof of a fast-improving relationship is expected to come with deals that may bring Chinese involvement to the construction of a British nuclear power station and a planned high-speed rail link.
Prime Minister David Cameron has hailed a “golden era” in relations between the two countries. Three weeks ago, on a state visit to China, British Chancellor George Osborne declared he wants China to become Britain’s second-biggest trade partner within a decade. 
But his government’s unambiguous tilt toward China is dividing opinion in the U.K. – and could lead to tensions between London and Washington. The Chinese president received a high-level welcome in Washington last month, but ties with the Obama administration remain cool, with tensions high over alleged Chinese cyberespionage, and China's reclamation of land in disputed waters in the South China Sea. 
A satellite image shows Chinese forces working on a runway on the disputed Subi reef in the South China Sea. Photo: The Diplomat / Digital Globe  And human rights activists in the U.K. have accused the country's Conservative leadership of being so “desperate for Chinese cash” that they are “prepared to abandon principle and endanger Britain’s national security” by downplaying human rights and giving “control of key infrastructure” to companies linked to a one-party Communist state. As President Xi and his wife, Peng Liyuan, ride to lunch at Buckingham Palace in a horse-drawn carriage on Tuesday, human rights groups will stage a protest in a nearby park at what they say is a worsening crackdown on civil society in China. Heir to the throne Prince Charles, meanwhile, is reported to be avoiding an official banquet for Xi due to his opposition to China’s policies in Tibet -- though he will greet the Chinese leader on Tuesday and will also hold a separate meeting with him. 
There’s no question Xi is receiving the warmest of official welcomes, however. He will address the U.K. parliament, speak at a state banquet and at another dinner in the City of London financial district, and travel with David Cameron and George Osborne to Manchester, where he will visit research institutions and Manchester City soccer club – Xi, a committed soccer fan, has announced a massive plan to help China qualify for and one day stage the soccer World Cup Finals, a topic he discussed with Britain’s Prince William in Beijing in March. Meanwhile the government is reported to have arranged a private meeting between Xi and the new leader of the opposition Labour Party, veteran socialist Jeremy Corbyn – in order to avoid the embarrassment of Corbyn criticizing China’s human rights record at the state banquet. 
Xi, in an interview with Reuters this week, praised Britain’s “visionary and strategic choice” to prioritize trade and investment over issues such as Tibet and human rights, which have been thorns in the relationship in the past. Indeed, the visit marks the culmination of painstaking efforts to rebuild the relationship by the U.K. since 2012, when David Cameron enraged Beijing by meeting the exiled Tibetan spiritual leader the Dalai Lama, whom Beijing describes as a separatist “pustule.” For the next 18 months, China, in its own words, “gave London the cold shoulder”: Ministerial visits were cancelled, and (though Britain remains the largest European investor in China) investment and trade deals were conspicuously given to other EU countries such as France and Germany. 
'Britain NEEDS us’ says China as Tories roll out red carpet for President to beg for cash http://t.co/VuGXLfo9zO pic.twitter.com/FnxGuvDsqH
— Daily Express (@Daily_Express) October 19, 2015
Since then, the U.K. government has changed its stance: The leadership has reportedly pledged not to meet the Dalai Lama again, and has apparently made little reference to human rights on subsequent visits to China. Earlier this year, Britain broke ranks with the U.S. to become the first western country to join the China-initiated Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank, which Washington warned might not live up to international criteria for sustainability and environmental impact controls. Last month U.K. Chancellor George Osborne set the seal on the warming when he became the first high level western politician to visit China’s north-western region of Xinjiang, scene of a vicious conflict between Chinese security forces and Islamist separatists. Osborne is said to have avoided sensitive topics and focused on trying to attract investment from the region to the U.K. 
Osborne also announced plans for London to become a center for trade in Chinese yuan-denominated debt, and proposed a direct trading link between the London stock exchange and its famously volatile Shanghai counterpart (which rose 150 percent in a year before plunging back some thirty percent since June). 
China, which has been calling without much success for the U.S. to formalize what it calls a “new great power relationship” with Beijing, is delighted by this volte-face. The official Global Times newspaper said while, as “An old empire, the UK has declined [in power]",  it had displayed “adept diplomatic skills” in recalibrating its relationship with China. It said that Britain's move suggested western countries were now “trying to redress their deep-rooted political prejudices” towards China. And it acknowledged that “China needs a Western country to set an example for a new China-west relationship.”
China’s economic growth slowed to 6.9 percent in the third quarter of the year, down from 7 percent in the first two quarters. Pictured: Pedestrians walk past a construction site in Beijing, April 1, 2015.  Photo: Wang Zhao/AFP/Getty Images  What this could mean in practice is more Chinese investment in Britain. Leading Chinese real estate companies, such as Dalian Wanda, have made significant investments in the UK, some of which are currently transforming the skyline of London. Some 150 deals ranging from health and aircraft manufacturing due to be signed during the visit, including a long-mooted deal in which a Chinese state-owned nuclear power station operator will invest and participate in the construction of a new nuclear plant at Hinkley Point, as part of a consortium with French nuclear giant EDF. Osborne is reported to be keen on the deal, despite what critics say is the influence this could give China over key UK infrastructure, and also concerns about safety standards: while China has never had a major nuclear accident, one of its own top nuclear scientists recently told the Guardian that China was not putting sufficient emphasis on safety at its nuclear plants. 
From Beijing’s point of view, the U.K. provides a useful point of entry to the European Union, and a good shop window for its products and its construction capacity- which Beijing is eager to export amid a slowdown in its own construction sector. Chinese companies are expected to play a role in a new high speed rail link from London to Birmingham, for example. 
The Financial Times newspaper said in an editorial that the U.K. government’s “uncritical charm offensive” toward China was a "gamble," since many concrete deals had yet to be finalized, and it acknowledged that this had opened a "chasm "between the U.K's "foreign policy imperatives" and those of the U.S. However it said that “the size of the potential commercial opportunity” meant the U.K. was right to roll out the red carpet for Xi Jinping.
#China's Xi Jinping warns Jeremy Corbyn he's not discussing #humanrights on #UK visit http://t.co/ETTbjWSgGb
— Jonathan Johns (@_jtj1333) October 19, 2015
However, others say the U.K. has gone too far. Exiled London-based novelist Ma Jian, a long-time critic of the Chinese government, said the U.K. government was welcoming “Big Brother” with “open arms and shameless sycophancy.” Pointing out that Xi’s government has pledged to eradicate Western values, including democracy, from the country’s education system and Internet, he said the U.K. was handing a “huge propaganda coup” to a leader who “craves the approval of the Western democracies he derides.” He said the message the visit would send to China’s people was that "if the queen of the U.K., the oldest democracy in the world, lavishes your president with such respect and approbation, then what right have you to criticize him?
Human rights groups say President Xi has overseen China’s most aggressive crackdown on civil society since the Tiananmen crackdown of 1989. Civil rights activists, NGOs, lawyers, journalists and bloggers have been targeted – in the most recent case, an award-winning journalist who exposed an alleged case of murder was arrested this month on charges of leaking state secrets. And in a widely publicized speech published in China's media last week, President Xi called for a “Marxist view of art and culture,” and accused some contemporary artists of “subverting history” and creating “cultural garbage.” 
And last week a planned public exhibition of a copy of the Magna Carta, the 13th century document seen as the foundation of Britain’s democracy, at a Beijing university, meanwhile, was suddenly moved to the British ambassador’s residence, where it was only visible for a few hours to people who made appointments in advance. The organizers did not give an explanation, but analysts said political sensitivities may have been to blame.
China’s ambassador to London Liu Xiaoming has also suggested Xi would feel “offended” if he were lectured on human rights during his visit, according to one report -- while Chinese media highlighted Liu's combative performance in an interview on the BBC’s "Newsnight" program last week.
A Chinese flag flutters at the headquarters of a commercial bank in the financial district of Beijing, on Nov. 24, 2014. Photo: Reuters/Kim Kyung-Hoon  However, despite these tensions, President Xi is seeking to send a more reassuring message to the U.K. on economic issues: he acknowledged to Reuters that China had “concerns” about its economy, which has slowed this year, and has been buffeted by stock market volatility. However he said China was addressing these issues – and he said Beijing would allow more foreign investment, something some foreign businesses have complained remains restricted to specific sectors of the economy.  
A Chinese film made by a government-backed studio, meanwhile, highlighted China's role in creating jobs in Britain, through deals such as the takeover of the company that makes London Taxis by a Chinese firm -- though critics in the U.K., as in the U.S., have also warned that China has undermined other sectors of British industry by what they say are unfair subsidies.
Against this backdrop, Xi's visit is set to be a potentially challenging test of the "golden era" in China's relations with the West. 
Michelle Obama announced Monday the launch of a new public awareness campaign under her Reach Higher initiative, which would motivate children to opt for studies after high school. The campaign called Better Make Room (BetterMakeRoom.org) will allow students to get information on forms required for higher studies, including federal aid forms and college applications.
The campaign will be supported by over 20 media, business and nonprofit groups, and the website would be useful for children between the ages of 14 and 19 to help them sign up for SAT and ACT exams. BetterMakeRoom.org will also allow students to share their goals, progress and their inspiration to enroll for higher studies, the Associated Press reported.
The first lady made the announcement about the new phase of her Reach Higher initiative on Monday during an event at the White House. Among the groups helping the campaign are Vine, Mashable, American Eagle Outfitters, Funny Or Die, the CW television network, AwesomenessTV and CollegeHumor.
The Reach Higher initiative was launched in May 2014 and aims to “encourage every student in America to take charge of their future by completing their education past high school, whether at a professional training program, a community college, or a four-year college or university,” according to the White House. The initiative is a means to achieve President Barack Obama’s "North Star" goal, through which he hopes that the U.S. would have the highest proportion of college graduates in the world by 2020.
“I believe that education is the single-most important civil rights issue that we face today. Because in the end, if we really want to solve issues like mass incarceration, poverty, racial profiling, voting rights, and the kinds of challenges that shocked so many of us over the past year, then we simply cannot afford to lose out on the potential of even one young person,” Michelle said in February, according to Reach Higher’s website.
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. engaged in suspected bribery worth millions of dollars in India, the Wall Street Journal reported Monday, citing a federal investigation into allegations of corruption in the company. Investigators discovered the suspected bribery while investigating alleged corruption at the American retail giant's operations in Mexico.
The report stated that Wal-Mart paid thousands of small payments to low-ranking Indian officials to help move goods through customs or acquire real-estate permits. In 2013, Wal-Mart dropped plans to open stores in the South Asian country in a joint venture with Bharti Enterprises Ltd. The retail chain instead chose to become a wholesaler in India, the Journal reported.
"The vast majority of the suspicious payments were less than $200, and some were as low as $5, the people said, but when added together they totaled millions of dollars," the newspaper stated.
However, it was highly unlikely that Wal-Mart would face penalty for bribery in India because its operation in the country was not a source of profit under the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), sources told the Journal. Penalties under the FCPA are mostly connected to profit generated through misconduct.
The probe also revealed that the retail giant’s Mexico operations were involved in few major offenses, potentially resulting in a much smaller case than investigators expected, according to the Journal. The investigators, who have been working on the case for three years, have nearly completed the probe and the case could potentially be resolved with a fine and no criminal charges against individual Wal-Mart executives, sourced told the Journal.
Wal-Mart spokesman Greg Hitt said the company was cooperating with the officials on the case. A Justice Department spokeswoman did not comment on the status of the investigation.
Authorities launched an investigation against Wal-Mart after the New York Times reported in 2012 that Wal-Mart de Mexico (Walmex) was engaged in a bribery campaign for several years in Mexico to build its business.
American investment banking giant Morgan Stanley reported quarterly earnings Monday, falling well short of analysts’ expectations. The company's stock dropped 5.7 percent in pre-market trading immediately after the announcement.
The firm posted net revenues of $7.8 billion for the third quarter ended Sept. 30, 2015 compared with $8.9 billion a year ago, and net income of $1.02 billion, or 48 cents a share, from $1.69 billion, or 83 cents, a year earlier. Analysts had expected earnings of 62 cents a share, and revenue of $8.54 billion. Moreover, excluding accounting gain, earnings slipped to 34 cents a share from 64 cents a year earlier.
“The volatility in global markets in the third quarter led to a difficult environment, impacting in particular our Fixed Income business and our Asia Merchant Banking business,” Chairman and CEO James P. Gorman said, in a statement. “The firm benefited from the stability of the Wealth Management business, our ongoing leadership in Equities and the continued strength of our Investment Banking franchise.”
The report is the latest in a series of dismal results posted by U.S. banks in the third quarter.
Last week, Goldman Sachs Group Inc, Citigroup Inc, Bank of America Corp and JPMorgan Chase & Co had all reported a drop in bond-trading revenue -- as uncertainties persisted over the timing of a rate hike in the U.S. and concerns over China’s slowing economy loomed large. 
Since the start of the year, Morgan Stanley’s shares have fallen 13 percent. 
Asian shares were mixed, while European stocks hit a five-week high Monday, as global investors weighed the potential impact of slowing growth in China. The world's second-largest economy grew by 6.9 percent in the July-September quarter -- narrowly ahead of analysts’ forecasts of 6.7 percent.
China’s benchmark Shanghai Composite Index fell 0.7 percent, before paring its losses and trading down 0.1 percent. Hong Kong’s Hang Seng traded mostly down during the day, before closing flat. Stocks were shielded from further falls by hopes that the government would step in with more stimulus measures to kickstart slowing growth.
“At this point in time, news that is not exceptionally bad or deteriorating is probably perceived as good,” Philippe Gijsels, head of research at BNP Paribas Fortis Global Markets, told Reuters. “Markets are in a more optimistic mood as more stimulus out of China is expected.”
The region’s largest market, Japan’s Nikkei 225 index, finished the day down 0.6 percent, while South Korea’s Kospi Composite Index was flat. In India, the S&P BSE Sensex ended the day up 0.55 percent and the larger CNX Nifty was up 0.4 percent. 
Further incremental stimulus measures would be needed in Beijing to ensure growth does not deviate too much from its official target of 7 percent in the subsequent quarters. The third-quarter growth of 6.9 percent, for instance, was the country’s slowest pace of growth since the peak of the global financial crisis in 2009.
In Australia, which counts China as its biggest export market, mining stocks were pulled down by slowing Chinese growth -- dragging down the benchmark S&P ASX 200 index from the day's highs to end the day flat.
However, in Europe, investors were encouraged by positive earnings reports and a gain in the shares of Deutsche Bank AG, which rose 3.3 percent after news that the German lender will split its investment bank into two separate units, and remove three of its eight top executives as part of a broad overhaul aimed at tackling shrinking profits.
The pan-European STOXX 600 rose sharply at the open, before paring its gains and trading up 0.4 percent. Germany’s DAX index was up 0.8 percent, while France’s CAC 40 rose 0.34 percent and Britain’s FTSE 100 index was down 0.2 percent.
Meanwhile, U.S. stock futures pointed to a flat open early Monday, after the Dow Jones Industrial Average ended the third straight week of gains Friday.
Infosys Ltd, India's second-largest software services provider, will acquire Noah Consulting LLC, a Texas-based oil and gas consultancy, in an all-cash deal worth $70 million, the Indian company said in a press release Monday.
This is the third acquisition in a little over a year at Infosys, where CEO Vishal Sikka is trying to refashion the Bangalore company into a provider of high-end business consulting and artificial intelligence-based automation to some of the world's biggest corporations. Sikka's drive is an attempt to move away from the conventional Indian outsourcing model based on supplying cheap English-speaking skilled labor that replaced information technology positions in the U.S.
The transaction is expected to close before the end of the current quarter subject to customary closing conditions.
With its proprietary data crunching software, Noah Consulting helps upstream oil and gas companies squeeze more out of their fields, Infosys said in the release. Noah also helps oil exploration and drilling companies better manage data compliance.
Oil exploration companies and those that provide related services account for a relatively small proportion of revenues at Infosys, which, however provides IT services to very large clients including BP PLC. The acquisition could help Infosys mine such customers for larger contracts and add new customers in the sector at a time when depressed oil prices make cutting costs a priority. 
“Our oil and gas clients are adjusting to a new normal of lower oil prices. There is an urgency to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of their operations in a safe and reliable manner," Sanjay Purohit, head of Infosys' consulting unit, said in the press release. "This acquisition is part of Infosys’ strategy to bring next generation data analytics solutions to the oil and gas industry."

Indonesian foreign-ownership laws may scuttle a $3 billion expansion plan by shipping giant Maersk Line, Jakarta Globe reported State-Owned Enterprise Minister Rini Soemarno as saying days before a visit by Danish Queen Margarethe II's visit to the country this week.
The Danish company wants to enter domestic shipping in Indonesia, but according to 2005 and 2008 laws, only companies majority owned by Indonesians can do so, the Globe said. 
"[Maersk] expressed interest to transports goods within our territory," the Globe reported Rini as saying. "But they stumbled upon our shipping law that requires majority shareholders to be locals. They wanted to be the majority."
The government is tweaking foreign-ownership laws in some industries, but Rini didn't say whether domestic shipping was included, the Globe said. If Indonesia relaxes the rules for domestic shipping, it will be following the footsteps of neighboring Philippines, which did so earlier this year.
Indonesia has recently stepped up its courting of foreign investment. It expanded income tax holidays and said it will lower corporate income taxes next year while working on new policies for economic zones, the Wall Street Journal reported in August.
As many as 150 companies have expressed interest in the $9.4 billion Singapore-Kuala Lumpur rail project, the latest development in the race to build Southeast Asia's first high-speed rail. 
The companies come from Malaysia, Singapore, the Asia-Pacific, Europe, Middle East and North America, Singapore's Land Transportation Authority said on its website. The companies are joining the so-called Request for Information exercise, where the government gets feedback to help it finalize the project. Companies can submit their feedback until Nov. 18, the LTA said.
About 50 Korean companies and agencies formed a group that joined the exercise, Channel News Asia reported on Sunday.
The 330 kilometer project was proposed as early as 2006, but Malaysia shelved it in 2008 due to high projected costs. 
Last month, Indonesia awarded its first high speed rail project to China, in a controversial process that Japan protested.
A small plane crashed into a residential area in Colombia’s capital city of Bogota Sunday killing five people and injuring seven. The aircraft, a Beechcraft 60 twin-engine plane, which took off from El Dorado airport, was headed to the town of Guaymaral, about 12 miles from Bogota.
The plane went down in the Engativa neighborhood just three minutes after takeoff, setting a bakery on fire, civil aviation officials told the Associated Press (AP). The pilot and three passengers on board the plane died in the crash, the city's police chief, Maj. Gen. Humberto Gatibonza Carreno, told the AP.
Authorities reportedly said one person was killed in the bakery and seven others, including a 12-year-old girl, suffered burns. Two of those injured in the crash were reportedly in critical condition.
Firefighters cordoned off the area of the accident and were searching for any possible missing people. An investigation is reportedly underway to determine the cause of the crash.
The latest incident marks the third crash of a small plane in the Colombian capital in as many months. In August, three people were killed when an aircraft crashed in the Cajica area in north Bogota. In October, another three people died after a plane crashed onto a highway.
WestBridge Capital, an India-focused venture capital and private equity firm, has raised $575 million more, taking the total to $2 billion, Times of India reported Monday. The report didn't specify when the fund raising round concluded.
Mauritius-based WestBridge typically invests money from investors, including university endowments and various wealthy foundations. The firm now has $1 billion in cash to back Indian companies, the newspaper reported, citing co-founder Sumir Chadha.
A WestBridge spokesman wasn't immediately available for comment.
Chadha and three other co-founders started the company's current avatar after leaving Sequoia Capital around February 2011. Sequoia had made its entry into India in 2006 by acquiring an investment firm -- also called WestBridge -- run by the same four co-founders. WestBridge had $1.2 billion invested in more than 60 Indian companies, and typically invests between $10 million and $80 million in return for a substantial minority stake, according to the firm's website and LinkedIn profile. It has a preference for medium-sized companies, and about 90 percent of the firm's portfolio comprises publicly listed companies, according to the newspaper report.
SHANGHAI -- China’s economic growth slowed to 6.9 percent in the third quarter of the year, down from 7 percent in the first two quarters. The figure is the country’s slowest growth rate since the global financial crisis of 2009, and analysts said it emphasizes the challenges facing the world’s second largest economy, which has been hit by an export slowdown and falls in its stock markets.
China’s total GDP for the first three quarters was 48.78 trillion yuan ($7.68 trillion), according to the country’s National Bureau of Statistics (NBS). The 6.9 percent growth rate was slightly better than the 6.8 percent predicted by many economists – and the NBS described it as evidence of steady growth. 
But it marks a sharp decline from last year’s 7.3 percent growth, and appears to back Chinese Premier Li Keqiang’s acknowledgment this weekend that it was “not easy” for the country to reach its target for the year of “about seven percent.”
China’s total GDP for the first three quarters was 48.78 trillion yuan ($7.68 trillion), according to the country’s National Bureau of Statistics (NBS). Pictured: Chinese workers weld at a construction site in heavy pollution, Nov. 29, 2014, in Beijing, China.  Photo: Kevin Frayer/Getty Images
Slowing global demand has played a part in a slump in exports, which were down 8.3 percent, 5.5 percent and 3.7 percent respectively, in dollar terms, over the past three months. The dramatic end of a year-long boom on China’s stock markets -- which have plunged some 30 percent over the past 4 months -- has also shaken business confidence. These factors have led to a decline in investment by businesses and falls in consumer confidence, which have contributed to a massive slowdown in China’s imports: these were down 20.4 percent year-on-year in September
The NBS said that China’s industrial output grew 6.2 percent in the first three quarters (though this figure also slowed to 5.7 percent in September). Property investment, a key engine of China’s growth that has cooled significantly in recent years, also grew slowly, at 2.6 percent. 
The main bright spots, analysts said, were growth in the service sector -- which was up more than 11 percent -- and in retail, which expanded by 10.9 percent year-on-year in September, up from 10.8 percent in August. Rural retail growth, seen as a potential growth area of domestic consumption, outstripped that of urban areas, while online sales continue to expand, and now account for 12 percent of China’s total retail sales.
The main bright spots were growth in the service sector and in retail, which expanded by 10.9 percent year-on-year in September. Photo: Greg Baker/AFP/Getty Images   However, China's consumer price index has remained low, with many producers cutting prices to maintain sales, in signs of continuing anxiety.
Premier Li said at the weekend that “continued strength in the labor market and services” were positive signs for China's economy, adding that as long as such factors persisted, “GDP [growth] a little higher or lower than 7 percent is acceptable.”
However President Xi Jinping acknowledged in an interview with Reuters on Saturday that there were “concerns about the Chinese economy.” And evidence that some sectors are being hurt by the slowdown has come with the sudden closure of a number of factories in labor-intensive manufacturing areas such as southern Guangdong province in recent weeks.
And debate also remains about the reliability of China’s economic data, though the authorities have recently adopted International Monetary Fund standards in an attempt to increase credibility of China's statistics.
China’s economic growth slowed to 6.9 percent in the third quarter of the year, down from 7 percent in the first two quarters. Pictured: Pedestrians walk past a construction site in Beijing, April 1, 2015.  Photo: Wang Zhao/AFP/Getty Images
What is clear is that the authorities are seeking to address the slowdown with an increase in infrastructure investment. Fixed-asset investment for the first three quarters was up 10.3 percent, with further increases predicted. China’s economic planners are stepping up spending on key sectors like railways, as they did during the global financial crisis in 2009, though officials have pledged to be more cautious in how they invest money this time around, and are seeking to attract more private investment for infrastructure projects.
A senior government official said over the weekend that “keeping relatively high growth of infrastructure investment is key to stabilizing economic growth.” Yu Bin, of the Development Research Center of China’s State Council or cabinet, said the country should speed up investment in hydropower, rural roads and improving agricultural land, and called for lowering the cost of financing for companies.
And a key meeting of China’s government to set economic policy for the next five years next week is expected to approve further infrastructure spending -- though some debate on the wisdom of such an approach remains. Zhu Yunlai, former head of the China International Capital Corporation, and son of former Premier Zhu Rongji, recently criticized plans to boost the economy through investment, saying many such projects were “inefficient” in market terms, the South China Morning Post reported. 
A key meeting of China’s government to set economic policy for the next five years is expected to approve further infrastructure spending. Pictured: Two cleaners have a rest on a bench at the Bund before the Huangpu River and the skyline of the Lujiazui Financial District in Shanghai, July 23, 2014. Photo: Johannes Eisele/AFP/Getty Images
Still some economists predict a gradual rebound in China's growth rate, as stimulus measures take effect.  The government recently reduced the down-payment requirement for first-time home buyers, for example, while Li-gang Liu, chief China economist at ANZ Bank, said in a research note sent to International Business Times that new loans were above expectations in the third quarter. He predicted that China's slowdown “will soon bottom out.”
However he and other analysts also predict that further rate cuts will be required, as the government seeks to boost the economy. China has already cut interest rates five times over the past year, and has reduced the reserve requirement ratio for banks, though ANZ's Liu said this was still high.
President Xi also pledged in his Reuters interview that China would continue to open up to foreign investment in the near future. However some observers say a need to maintain rapid growth may delay the implementation of further market-oriented reforms, something many foreign investors and analysts have called for.
BEIJING (Reuters) - China posted its weakest quarterly economic growth since the global financial crisis on Monday, raising pressure on policymakers to cut interest rates further and roll out other support measures to avert a sharper slowdown.
Chinese leaders have been trying to reassure jittery global markets for months that the economy is under control after a shock devaluation of the yuan and a summer stock market plunge fanned fears of a hard landing.
The world's second-largest economy grew 6.9 percent in the July-September quarter from a year ago, slightly better than analysts' estimate of 6.8 percent, but down from 7 percent in the second quarter.
That is the weakest reading since the first quarter of 2009, when growth tumbled to 6.2 percent. However, analysts still mostly believe China's slowdown will be gradual rather than more calamitous.
"Continued downward pressures from real estate and exports caused gross domestic product (GDP) growth to drop to 6.9 percent," said Louis Kuijs from Oxford Economics in Hong Kong.
"We think overall growth will soften more into 2016," he said. "In such a setting we expect more incremental monetary and fiscal measures."
Other September figures also released on Monday pointed to stubborn weakness in the Chinese economy.
Factory output rose 5.7 percent in September from a year ago, missing forecasts for a 6 percent rise, and fixed-asset investment (FAI), a key driver of the economy, climbed 10.3 percent in the first nine months of the year, below estimates of 10.8 percent.
Retail spending alone bucked the trend, growing at an annual rate of 10.9 percent, slightly better than forecasts for 10.8 percent growth.
"The GDP beat is surprising, given that the monthly FAI and industrial production figures slowed considerably, and much faster than expected," said Oliver Barron, a China policy researcher at NSBO inBeijing.
"The data would suggest that retail sales is holding up the data and there are other areas that the government is factoring in consumption and services data that are not picked up in the monthly figures."
There is also widespread skepticism about the reliability of official Chinese data. Some market watchers believe current growth is much weaker than government readings, though officials deny allegations that the numbers are inflated.
Despite weak exports and imports, factory overcapacity and a cooling property market, Beijing reported annual economic growth of 7.0 percent in the first two quarters, in line with its full-year target.
Indeed, some economists suspect government statistics may actually be underestimating strong consumption and service sector growth, leaving investors to focus on the undeniable cyclical and structural weaknesses in manufacturing.
POLICY SUPPORT
Many analysts say the third quarter could mark the low point for 2015, predicting a flurry of stimulus measures announced over the past year will gradually take effect. But few expect a significant rebound.
China's policymakers in turn think they can stem a rapid rundown of the country's foreign exchange reserves and ease pressure on the currency by pump-priming the economy to meet this year's growth target, sources involved in policy discussions say.
The latest Reuters quarterly poll showed economists expect the central bank will cut interest rates by another 25 basis points (bps) and lower the amount of cash that banks must hold as reserves by 50 bps by year-end.
The same poll predicted economic growth may hold steady at 6.8 percent in the fourth quarter before easing to 6.7 percent in the first quarter of 2016.
China's consumer inflation cooled more than expected in September, while producer prices extended their slide to a 43rd straight month, highlighting the urgency for the central bank to tackle deflationary pressures.
To stoke activity, the central bank has already cut interest rates five times since November and reduced banks' reserve requirement ratios, though analysts believe an increase in fiscal spending could be more effective in lifting growth.
The government has quickened spending on infrastructure and eased curbs on the ailing property sector, which have succeeded in reviving weak home sales and prices but have not yet reversed a sharp decline in new construction.
UPDATED 10:50 p.m. EDT: China reported its gross domestic product for the third quarter at 6.9 percent, down 0.1 percent from the first two quarters.
Original post:
Investors this week will focus on economic news out of China and Europe, trying to suss out whether China's economic slowdown signals a worldwide downturn. More earnings reports from the likes of General Motors (NYSE:GM), Yahoo (NASDAQ:YHOO), 3M (NYSE:MMM), Alphabet (NASDAQ:GOOG NASDAQ:GOOGL) and AT&T (NYSE:T) also are likely to set the tone, along with Verizon Communications (NYSE:VZ), Coca-Cola (NYSE:KO) and Boeing (NYSE:BA).
Asian Markets opened slightly lower Monday, after hitting two-month highs Friday. Markets were up 0.3 percent to off 1.1 percent as investors awaited Chinese data.
"Compared to some time ago, more people think things are starting to look up. Yet there remain concerns on the outlook of the global economy," Yoshinori Shigemi, global market strategist at JPMorgan Asset Management, told Reuters.
China’s central bank fixed the yuan Monday at 6.3527 to the U.S. dollar, its weakest level this month.
“You can’t look past China’s GDP today,” Evan Lucas, market analyst at brokerage IG, told the Wall Street Journal.
The Standard & Poor's 500 index rebounded last week, pushing up nearly a point and finishing higher in 11 of the past 14 weeks despite reports from major retailers like Wal-Mart (NYSE:WMT) reporting disappointing third-quarter earnings and continued announcements of workforce cutbacks. The Examiner predicted further disappointing earnings this week and the probability the situation will worsen before it gets better, with a possible retreat on the horizon and volatility a likely market characteristic.
General Motors will be trying to convince Wall Street it is worth more than its $33 IPO value when it issues its earnings report Wednesday, Reuters said. This month, GM predicted earnings of $5 to $5.50 a share for 2015. The Street also is waiting to see if Google can beat profit estimates again.
Morgan Stanley (NYSE:MS), the last big U.S. bank to release its results, is expected to report a sharp decline.
A businessman passes before a share prices board in Tokyo, Oct. 16, 2015.  Photo: Yoshikazu Tsuno/AFP/Getty Images
China releases its gross domestic product data Monday and will follow up Tuesday with import, export and trade balance figures. Economists predict the Chinese GDP will show a 6.8 percent expansion in the third quarter, compared with last year -- a slight dip from the 7 percent posted for the first and second quarters. Beijing has moved to shore up the economy in recent weeks, devaluing its currency in the wake of a stock market slump. Its central bank has cut interest rates five times since last November.
The European Central Bank Thursday is scheduled to release a monetary policy statement amid a slew of economic reports on unemployment, retail sales and consumer confidence, and Friday's Markit reports on the manufacturing purchasing managers index and industrial orders. The ECB must decide whether to cave in to pressure to ramp up its bond buying, known as quantitative easing.
In the United States, the homebuilders index comes out Monday and is expected to be flat. Tuesday's report on housing starts is expected to show a slight increase of 1.14 million units, compared with 1.13 million in the previous monthly assessment. Mortgage applications are due out Wednesday.
The Bank of Canada is expected to announce Wednesday it is keeping interest rates steady at 0.5 percent.
Mexico releases retail sales figures Wednesday, inflation results Thursday and the unemployment rate Friday.
President Barack Obama will meet Monday with the heads of 10 prominent U.S. companies to discuss efforts to tackle climate change at home and globally. The roundtable meeting is part of a broader White House strategy to enlist the private sector in developing technologies to slash greenhouse gas emissions and help the world adapt to rising sea levels, violent storms and deadly heatwaves.
Monday's discussion will include the CEOs of Fortune 500 companies Johnson & Johnson, Intel Corp., Berkshire Hathaway Energy Co., Hershey Co. and PG&E Corp., as well as five other companies that act as suppliers to those corporations, a White House official said, Bloomberg reported.
The meeting will "focus on how to further efforts around carbon mitigation, sustainability and resiliency, and how technologies are emerging to support and scale these efforts," according to a White House press bulletin.
Obama has vowed to make climate change a top priority in his second term. This summer, his administration finalized the landmark Clean Power Plan, which is expected to reduce emissions from electric power plants to 32 percent below 2005 levels by 2030. The White House has also targeted emissions from vehicle tailpipes, oil and gas operations and, most recently, refrigerators and air-conditioning units that deploy  "super" greenhouse gases called hydrofluorocarbons.
A bulldozer works a coal mound at the Appalachian Electric Power coal-fired Big Sandy Power Plant in Cattlettsburg, Kentucky, June 3, 2014.  Photo: Luke Sharrett/Getty Images
Along with public policies, Obama has unveiled a slew of initiatives to bring private companies into the climate fight. In July, executives from Apple Inc., The Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and 11 other major companies announced $140 billion in new investments to decrease their corporate carbon footprints. The White House announcement aimed to build support for United Nations-led climate negotiations in Paris this year. Nearly 200 nations have agreed to forge an agreement to reduce global greenhouse gas emissions at the December conference. Thousands of companies -- including major European oil and gas producers -- have backed the effort.
For a separate Obama-backed effort, the Climate Data Initiative, the president last year tapped the expertise of more than a dozen U.S. companies, universities and private groups, as well as the World Bank. As part of the effort, Google Inc. said it would develop high-resolution maps to show how the rise in sea levels, drought and other climate-related threats are occurring across the mainland U.S.
Google also signed up for another White House effort in April 2014 that underscores the link between climate change and the increased evidence of asthma attacks, allergy cases and weather-related injuries. The program combines the data-gathering prowess of Google and Microsoft Corp. with the vast expertise of top U.S. medical institutions in an effort to better prepare the nation's health systems for the effects of a warming planet.
Following Obama's roundtable Monday, Vice President Joe Biden and other senior administration officials will hold a separate meeting with business representatives, science and technology leaders, and environmental organizations to discuss the U.N. climate talks. Dozens of companies are expected to participate in the summit, the White House official told Bloomberg.
As Canada prepared for heavy voter turnout for Monday’s election, Uber announced it would offer new users free rides to and from polling stations in the Canadian cities where it operates. The limited-time offer will be available for first-time customers only, up to $15 each way, in Edmonton, Calgary, the Greater Toronto Area, Ottawa, London, Hamilton, the Waterloo Region, Quebec City and Montreal, the Canadian Press reported.
“Voting on election day is a big decision. We want you to think about what’s important to you -- not how you’re going to get to and from the polls,” Uber said in a statement Saturday. “That’s why we’re offering new Uber users rides to and from the polls for free up to $15 each way on Oct. 19 across the Canadian cities we operate in.”
The San Francisco company has not been without controversy since launching its ride-hailing service in 58 countries and 300 cities worldwide. Taxi drivers in Ontario, Canada, filed a class-action lawsuit against Uber Technologies Inc. in July, just as the company expanded its disputed UberX service, which allows ordinary drivers to use their personal vehicles to transport passengers. The suit claims Uber and its drivers knowingly violated parts of the Highway Traffic Act, causing the plaintiff and others in the Ontario’s taxi industry to suffer damages. The plaintiff alleged there is "a conspiracy to create a market for illegal transportation,” the Financial Post reported.
While taxi drivers around the world say Uber is an unfair competitor, some Uber drivers say working for the company isn’t easy. Uber drivers across America protested in a nationwide strike during the weekend, in which the employees were encouraged to turn off their Uber app. They are asking the company to add a tipping option to the mobile app and increase the minimum fare and cancellation fees to benefit drivers. The three-day strike began Friday and was slated to last until Sunday night, the Los Angeles Times reported.
"Uber has been treating their drivers worse and worse as time goes by," a co-worker petition reads. "Enough is enough. Just because they label drivers as independent contractors, doesn't mean they can take advantage of them and completely ignore labor laws."
Deutsche Bank AG, Germany’s biggest bank, announced Sunday several high-level management changes and anticipated restructuring plans to streamline its business. Deutsche Bank said its investment bank will be split in two, and its asset and wealth management division will be cleaved into separate units, CNBC reported.
Under new co-chief executive John Cryan, the banking giant said it will also dissolve its group executive committee, a body that includes the bank’s top executives as well as regional and other representatives, and place a representative of each of its four core operations on a newly created board. Meanwhile, 10 of the current 16 management board committees will be scrapped and several top managers will shift positions or leave.
At a meeting of the German lender’s directors in Frankfurt, Deutsche Bank said Sunday the changes are aimed "to reduce complexity of the bank's management structure, enabling it to better meet client demands and requirements of supervisory authorities,” the Associated Press reported.
As a result of the restructuring, Colin Fan, the investment-banking co-head responsible for securities trading, will resign Monday and Garth Ritchie, the current global equities head, will be promoted. Henry Ritchotte, the bank’s chief operating officer, will depart the management board and form a new digital bank for the company, the Wall Street Journal reported.
The changes marked the latest shake-up at Deutsche Bank since the arrival of Cryan, who took over July 1 after co-CEOs Anshu Jain and Juergen Fitschen announced their resignations. It was widely expected Cryan would move quickly to reorganize the bank since taking the reins after Jain left earlier this year. Fitschen will remain until May 2016 when Cryan becomes the bank’s sole CEO.
Deutsche Bank has been embroiled in investigations amid allegations it was one of the banks rigging global interest rate benchmark Libor, or the London interbank offered rate. The legal issues have dealt a blow to the company’s profits. Earlier this month, Deutsche Bank said it expects to report a third-quarter net loss of 6.2 billion euros ($7 billion)  due to write-downs and litigation costs, the AP said.
After Malaysia’s parliament returns from a four-month break this week, Prime Minister Najib Razak could face a series of no-confidence votes over a corruption controversy that's sapped investor confidence in the country. Foreigners pulled $4.7 billion from Malaysian stocks in the last quarter, helping make the ringgit the worst performer in Asia this year, according to Bloomberg News.
The controversy revolves around 1Malaysia Development Berhad (1MDB), a fund the prime minister chairs. Citing government investigations, opposition leaders allege the fund funneled $700 million into Najib’s pockets and they say the fund has $11 billion in debt because of this and other transactions they consider questionable, the Wall Street Journal reported. Najib and his spokesmen have said that $700 million is the total donations from a Middle East supporter he hasn’t identified and that he isn’t closely involved in 1MDB’s deals.
As early as August, former Prime Minister Mahatir Mohamad, who remains influential after having led the country for 22 years, called for Najib, a protégé, to step down. In a rare joint statement this month, Malaysia's nine sultans said a credible investigation is needed because the controversy may have "resulted in a crisis of confidence." And highly respected Bank Negara Malaysia Governor Zeti Akhtar Aziz has clamped down on 1MDB while other agencies are investigating the controversy.
But a no-confidence vote, not to mention winning such a vote, will be a challenge because the opposition is 25 votes short of a majority, Bloomberg said. Still, they can try to force it when parliament opens today, or when the budget or the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) come before legislators.
The TPP is the U.S.-led initiative for freer trade and investment among 12 countries. Negotiators for the 12 finalized the agreement earlier in October, sending it for ratification by Malaysia and other countries. Some observers say TPP, which doesn't include China, is a U.S. move to counter China's growing influence in Asia. Meanwhile, some say local businesses who will be hurt by the agreement could push some members of Najib’s Barisan Nasional party (BN) to vote with the opposition against it, an outcome that would weaken his government.
“The BN MPs will support the budget, but the vote of no confidence could come in against Najib’s promotion of the TPP agreement, as some of the government MPs are worried local business will be sidelined” by the Pacific trade pact, Bloomberg reported Wan Saiful Wan Jan, head of the Institute for Democracy and Economic Affairs, as saying.
The controvery is also a potential black eye for U.S. investment bank Goldman Sachs, with the U.S. Justice Department and Federal Bureau of Investigation gathering information on the bank's deals with 1MDB as part of a broader probe, the Wall Street Journal reported on Oct. 14. An FBI official said there is no decision yet about whether the relationship will be part of any investigation into 1MDB.
BEIJING -- Increased infrastructure investment is key to stabilizing China's economic growth, a top state adviser said Sunday, while calling on the central bank to lower the cost of financing for companies and increase overall credit. "Keeping relatively high growth of infrastructure investment is key to stabilizing economic growth" since property and manufacturing investment remains weak, said Yu Bin, head of the microeconomy-research department at the State Council's Development Research Cented.
China needs to speed up its 172 hydropower projects, develop 53 million hectares of high-standard agricultural land and increase investment in rural roads, Yu said. His comments came the day before the Chinese government is due to release third-quarter figures on growth in its gross domestic product (GDP), and his remarks were published in the government-owned Economic Daily Sunday.
Many economists expect China to report that economic growth last quarter dropped below 7 percent for the first time since the global financial crisis.
Premier Li Keqiang said Saturday that with the global economic recovery losing steam, achieving domestic growth of around 7 percent is "not easy."
President Xi Jinping also acknowledged "concerns about the Chinese economy," but he sought to allay them in a written interview with Reuters.
The Chinese government has taken several measures in recent months to accelerate construction investment, in part by attracting private financing through the increased used of public-private partnerships (PPP).
The Ministry of Finance (MOF) in September published details of 206 proposed PPP projects, including an expressway in Beijing, with a total value of 659 billion yuan ($104 billion). The MOF last month also launched a 180 billion yuan fund with China's biggest banks and financial institutions to invest in PPP projects.
Yu called on the central bank to be alert to macroeconomic adjustments, lowering the cost of finance for companies and allow for credit growth, while maintaining a prudent monetary policy. "Given the short-term rising downward pressure, it does not benefit China's structural adjustment if economic growth is too slow or too fast," he said.
China has launched a wave of measures to drive economic growth since late 2014, including cutting benchmark interest rates five times since November and lowering the reserve-requirement ratio for lenders. Many economists expect the central bank to further cut interest rates and the reserve requirement ratio by year-end.
Yu said China should implement fiscal, taxation and financial policies to encourage companies to merge and restructure, and allow bankruptcies to solve the problem of overcapacity.
(Reporting by Shu Zhang and Matthew Miller; Editing by Richard Pullin)
Police have searched Volkswagen France's headquarters near Paris, as local and international authorities continue to investigate the German automaker's software trickery, which made the emissions of certain diesel cars appear more environmentally friendly on tests than they actually are. The French raid -- carried out Friday but not reported until Sunday -- is the latest event in a scandal surrounding the parent company Volkswagen AG worldwide.
Authorities with France's environmental-protection agency assisted in conducting the search at the Volkswagen unit's headquarters at Villers-Cotterets, 52 miles north of Paris. Like countries such as Canada, China, Germany and the U.S., France has launched a national probe of VW's activities to determine whether the firm employed its defeat devices in its territory.
French police raid Volkswagen offices over emissions scandal http://t.co/KOABKSEbS9 pic.twitter.com/h12Vj9nG77
— FRANCE 24 (@FRANCE24) October 18, 2015
During the search of the Volkswagen unit's offices, investigators seized computers, according to the Paris prosecutor's office. A Volkswagen France representative said the group cooperated with the police "with full transparency."
Authorities probing Volkswagen have attempted to find out which, if any, international branches of the company were aware of the defeat devices.
The Volkswagen emissions-test scandal exploded after a research team at the University of West Virginia discovered that some of the company's diesel cars were outfitted with defeat devices that faked carbon emissions. The team tested the cars on the road and found the cars could emit as much as 40 times the legal limit. The scandal has since gone very wide, with Volkswagen leadership admitting last month that as many as 11 million cars may have been affected around the world.
News of the French raid came the day after Porsche Automobil Holding SE, the holding company that controls a majority stake in Volkswagen, said Hans Dieter Poetsch would succeed Martin Winterkorn as its CEO. Poetsch was designated the new chairman of the VW supervisory board this month, while Winterkorn resigned as the firm's chairman last month. Winterkorn has been at the center of coverage of the emissions-test scandal.
BEIJING -- China's Premier Li Keqiang has called for continued reform of the country's financial system, while admitting the government faces significant obstacles to achieving its economic targets. Li said the government should maintain prudent monetary and stable macroeconomic policies, as the economy continued to face "downward pressure."
Li was speaking to officials and financial professionals at a meeting to promote financial reform Friday. His comments, which were released Sunday, came a day before the Chinese government is due to release third-quarter figures on growth in its gross domestic product (GDP).
Many economists expect China to report that its economic growth last quarter dropped below 7 percent for the first time since the global financial crisis. Saturday, Li said meeting this year's growth target of around 7 percent was "not easy."
President Xi Jinping also acknowledged "concerns about the Chinese economy," but sought to allay them in a written interview with Reuters.
Li said the government needed to move forward with financial-market reforms while improving "the effectiveness of financial regulation" to prevent and resolve financial risks. That included creating friendly policies for financial institutions to write off bad debt.
China also needed to push forward interest-rate liberalization and complete the renminbi exchange-rate mechanism to keep the exchange rate basically stable on a reasonable level, Li said.
Li called on financial institutions to maintain sufficient liquidity and growth of total credit, while supporting new and restructuring companies, including advanced manufacturing and startups.
"There is enough money in the pool, but the transmission to the real economy faces many systematic obstacles," Li said. "We need to rely on reform and opening up to solve the problem."
Among those attending Friday's meeting were Vice Premiers Zhang Gaoli and Ma Kai, as well as central-bank governor Zhou Xiaochuan.
(Reporting by Matthew Miller and Shu Zhang; Editing by Jon Boyle)
BEIJING -- China could tailor its financial regulations to help boost poorer regions, as part of efforts to lift 70 million people out of poverty, a senior central-bank official said. The government could use differing reserve-requirement ratios, relending and rediscounting, as well as other differing regulations, to encourage financial institutions to increase support for poor areas, said Pan Gongsheng, vice governor of the People's Bank of China.
Pan's remarks were made Friday at a poverty-reduction forum jointly held by the central bank and the State Council, and they were carried in a statement published by the central bank Sunday.
Internet finance, industry investment funds, venture capital and private equity should also be directed toward poverty-elimination efforts, Pan said.
China's President Xi Jinping told the forum that the government wants to lift 70 million people out of poverty by 2020, according to state television. That averages out to a rate of a million people a month.
"To bridge the development gap between urban and rural areas is a difficult challenge for us. To build a moderately prosperous society in an all-around way is the goal of all Chinese people. None of them can be left behind," Xi said.
Those earning less than 2,300 yuan ($362) annually fall below the poverty line in China, according to its National Bureau of Statistics.
(Reporting By Shu Zhang and Matthew Miller; Editing by Richard Pullin)
PARIS (Reuters) -- Air France will cut less than a thousand jobs next year, under one-third of the 2,900 job losses in a plan for 2016-2017 that triggered clashes with some staff this month, the CEO of parent company Air France-KLM SA said Sunday.
The job cuts in 2016 will be voluntary redundancies, and job losses in 2017 can be avoided, assuming ongoing talks with unions lead to an agreement on alternative savings measures by the beginning of next year, Alexandre de Juniac said in a broadcast interview.
(Reporting by Gus Trompiz and Sophie Louet; Editing by Mark Potter)
JERUSALEM (Reuters) — Israel's economy is on track to grow 2.5 percent in 2015, slightly lower than a 2.6 percent pace last year, the Central Bureau of Statistics said Sunday. Citing seven to nine months of data, the bureau said the economy this year was boosted by higher private spending. Although a fall in investment in fixed assets was less than in 2014, the economy was hit by a decline in exports compared with an advance the previous year.
In its third estimate of second-quarter gross domestic product, the bureau left unchanged its growth estimate of an annualized 0.1 percent, but it revised first-quarter GDP growth to an annualized 2.0 percent from 1.8 percent.
The Bank of Israel last month cut its 2015 growth estimate to 2.6 percent from 3.0 percent, while the Finance Ministry lowered its forecast for GDP growth this year to 2.6 percent from 2.9 percent. They expect growth of between 3.3 and 3.7 percent in 2016.
(Reporting by Steven Scheer)
UPDATE: 4 a.m. EDT -- Some areas of northern Philippines are flooded half a day after Typhoon Koppu made landfall, the country's weather agency said. A few more areas may flood as high water levels force authorities to open three dams.
As of 4 p.m. local time, the typhoon's eye was over Santa Fe in Nueva Vizcaya province, more than 100 miles north of Manila. The rains have flooded some areas, while other areas may flood when high water in at least three dams force authorities to release water, the weather agency said.
Some areas have no power, either because of downed lines or because electricity was cut for safety reasons, ABS-CBN reported. Restoration has begun in some places.
Original story:
MANILA, Philippines -- Typhoon Koppu, the strongest cyclone to hit the main Philippine island of Luzon in five years, made landfall at around 1 a.m. local time (1 p.m. EDT), destroying homes, other structures and crops. Nearly 10,000 families have evacuated their homes but there are no casualty reports yet, the country's chief disaster official said.
"Initially, we are getting many houses were destroyed, power lines toppled and trees blocking major roads," said Alex Pama, head of the National Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Council, Reuters reported. It usually takes days before casualty reports come in from remote areas, or areas where power and communications have been cut.
Fishermen secure their boats during Typhoon Koppu at Baywalk in Manila on Oct. 18, 2015. Powerful Typhoon Koppu ploughed into the northeastern Philippines before dawn on Sunday destroying homes and displacing 10,000 people and whipping up coastal surges four meters (12 feet) high, disaster agency officials said. Photo: Reuters/Erik De Castro
Koppu, known as Lando in the Philippines, was momentarily upgraded to a supertyphoon. As of 10 a.m. local time Sunday, it was back to a typhoon, with 150 kilometer per hour winds (90 miles per hour), moving at 5 kilometers per hour, according to the Philippine weather agency. Its eye was over Pantabangan, Nueva Ecija, more than 100 miles north of Manila.
It's Koppu's slow pace, as much as its winds, which could result in much higher destruction and casualties: the typhoon is expected to bear down over northern Luzon until midweek, the agency said.
Fishermen paddle their boat in rough seas due to Typhoon Koppu in Manila Bay on Oct. 18, 2015. Photo: Reuters/Erik De Castro
Rice and corn crops "may suffer heavy losses" or "may be adversely affected" in provinces that are big suppliers of rice, the Philippine staple, the agency said. That could revive low local inflation or boost world prices. The Philippines is one of the world's biggest importers of the grain. Many coconut and banana trees, and even large trees are down. The winds are so strong that trees fell in areas as far as Manila, ABS-CBN News reported.
Most houses made of straw, which are occupied by the poorest farmers, would be destroyed or lose their roofs, the agency said. Old or medium-strength structures, including schoolhouses, could also lose their roofs. ABS-CBN News reported that some local governments have suspended Monday classes for safety reasons or because schools are used as evacuation centers.
A food vendor carries a sack containing food item as he evacuated due toTyphoon Koppu in Manila on Oct. 18, 2015. Photo: Reuters/Erik De Castro
The Philippines is hit by as many as 20 typhoons each year -- with two of the biggest ones being Ketsana in 2009 and Haiyan in 2013 -- prompting the national and local governments to enforce early evacuation more strictly, and civilians to comply, with the aim of reducing casualties.
 (Reuters) - Chinese President Xi Jinping heaped praise on Britain for what he called a "visionary and strategic choice" to strengthen commercial ties with China, as he prepared for a state visit to the United Kingdom that's expected to be richer in pomp and considerably warmer in tone than his recent trip to the United States.
The trip comes at a time of global anxiety about China's slowing growth. Xi himself acknowledged "concerns about the Chinese economy", but sought to allay them in a written interview with Reuters.
China itself is worried about the slowing of the broader global economy, Xi said, even while he expressed confidence that China would weather the current downturn as it reshapes its economy to be more resilient in the future.
That confidence will be on display when Xi arrives in London on Monday evening to kick off a four-day visit that is expected to cement ties between Britain and China, including through a host of business deals.
"The UK has stated that it will be the Western country that is most open to China. This is a visionary and strategic choice that fully meets Britain's own long-term interest," Xi said in a written response to questions from Reuters.
"China looks forward to engaging with the UK in a wider range, at a higher level and in greater depth."
Warmer Welcome
Xi's visit comes amid debate in Britain and many other Western countries over what is the best way to engage with a Communist-ruled China that has grown more influential economically and diplomatically, but which maintains stances in areas from human rights to the South China Sea that are often at odds with those widely held in the West.
Such tensions were on display when Xi visited the United States last month, with friction over issues from cyber theft to China's maritime disputes with its neighbors at the center of discussions.
Xi's visit to Britain, during which he and his wife Peng Liyuan will stay at Buckingham Palace as guests of Queen Elizabeth II, is expected to be much warmer, with Xi saying it could be the start of a "golden time" in bilateral relations.
Britain was the first Western nation to join the China-led Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank (AIIB) earlier this year, leading to a stampede of other countries signing up and marking an embarrassment for Washington, which had been pressing its allies not to join.
At the time, Britain said joining the AIIB at the founding stage would "create an unrivalled opportunity for the UK and Asia to invest and grow together".
British Finance Minister George Osborne set the tone with a preparatory visit to China last month, when he courted Chinese investment into Britain and won praise from Chinese state media for having the "etiquette" not to press human rights issues.
Still, Xi's visit, the first state visit by a Chinese president since 2005, will not be without potentially awkward moments. Newly installed opposition leader Jeremy Corbyn intends to bring up the issue of human rights when he meets Xi, his official spokesman has said.
"No Glass Doors"
Xi called on Britain and other countries to avoid what he characterized as bias against Chinese companies, as Beijing supports firms in fields from high-speed rail to nuclear technology in their efforts to compete for contracts overseas.
"Competition is necessary for a business to grow, and no one will give away a market to its rivals," Xi said in comments provided in English. "We hope that such competition is benign and market-based. There should be no swing doors or glass doors which are placed as non-economic or non-market-based barriers."
One deal expected to be inked during Xi's visit is a plan for two state-owned Chinese utilities to invest in a 16 billion pound ($25 billion) nuclear power project being built by French utility EDF at Hinkley Point in southwest England.
EDF Energy's head Vincent de Rivaz has described Xi's visit as a "timely opportunity" to seal the deal.
China has ambitions to sell its own nuclear technology overseas, including in Western nations. While critics have said that Chinese government support, including cheap financing, for companies in that and other sectors could amount to unfair competition, Xi defended China's approach.
"Even under market conditions, countries support the growth of their companies in various ways, and such measures should not be all labeled as government subsidy," Xi said.
His comments were prepared by Chinese government officials, but were reviewed and approved by Xi himself, the government said.
Xi also underscored China's readiness to strengthen financial cooperation with London, which aims to be an important hub for yuan trading and offshore yuan business and is set to be the first location outside China and Hong Kong to host the issuance of Chinese central bank and finance ministry debt.
"When conditions are in place, China is ready to consider strengthening the connectivity of the financial markets of the two countries," he said.
Worries Over Economy
Xi acknowledged that the Chinese economy's slowing was a concern.
"As an economy closely linked to international markets, China cannot stay immune to the lackluster performance of the global economy. We do have concerns about the Chinese economy, and we are working hard to address them. We also worry about the sluggish world economy, which affects all countries, especially developing ones," he said.
Economists polled by Reuters expect growth to have slowed to 6.8 percent from a year earlier in the third quarter, the weakest pace since the first quarter of 2009 and below the government's target of 7 percent for the year. GDP figures are due to be published on Monday.
Still, Xi added that the slowing was normal as a part of structural adjustments, as the government seeks to wean it off an over-reliance on investment in infrastructure and housing and to develop new drivers of growth, such as the services sector and high-tech industry.
Xi said the monetary easing steps China had taken to date, as well as its adjustment to the exchange rate mechanism for the yuan in August, which was accompanied by a devaluation of the currency, had helped to defuse risks.
"Going forward, we will deepen market-oriented financial reforms according to law to cultivate an open and transparent capital market that enjoys long-term, stable and sound development," he said.
U.S. and European businesses have complained about what they see as an increasingly restrictive environment for doing business, for example with new rules on technology sales forcing firms to choose between forgoing the market and handing potentially sensitive data to Chinese authorities.
Xi said China would continue to seek to attract foreign investment, improve the rule of law to enhance the business environment, protect intellectual property rights, and promote fair competition.
Footballing Ambition
China has rattled nerves around the region and prompted concern in Western capitals about its increasingly assertive moves to push its territorial claims in the South China Sea, including construction of artificial islands.
Xi was unequivocal in his defense of China's right to develop the areas it claims as its own.
"The islands and reefs in the South China Sea are Chinese territory since ancient times. They are left to us by our ancestors. The Chinese people will not allow anyone to infringe on China's sovereignty and related rights and interests in the South China Sea," he said.
But it is not in China's interests for there to be instability in the South China Sea, he added.
"China would not want any turbulence there, still less would it be the party to stir up chaos," Xi said, adding that China would work to manage disputes via talks and ensure freedom of navigation.
On a lighter note, Xi, a football fan, highlighted the potential for further UK-China cooperation on the sport. Xi will visit the Manchester City football club on Friday, accompanied by British Prime Minister David Cameron, according to a schedule of the trip provided by Buckingham Palace.
"My greatest expectation on Chinese football is for the Chinese team to be one of the best in the world and for football to play an important role in making people stronger in body and mind," Xi said.
Believe it or not, not everyone loves the idea of eating bacon, egg and cheese sandwiches all day. McDonald's franchise owners are frustrated with the company's Oct. 6 decision to make breakfast meal options an all day menu fixture.
A poll conducted by the Japanese finance company Nomura surveyed 29 franchise operators who own 226 restaurants throughout the U.S. They found while the original plan was to increase revenue, all-day breakfast has in fact been a nightmare. Increased demand has forced owners to hire new employees, and small stores have been overwhelmed by a lack of space.
“Unfortunately, with the current labor pool in our area, we are struggling to have enough people run the shift, much less add an extra person,” one franchisee said, as quoted by the New York Post. Another reported customers "are abandoning us in droves because we are either too slow, or sub-par quality.”
McDonald's has maintained all-day breakfast options was the most popular customer request. The fast food chain rolled out the changes to increase sales, which have been on the decline as customers have increasingly flocked to Chipotle, Panera and other more health-conscious food options.
Another poll, this one conducted by the polling company YouGov, found customers ages 18 and older see McDonald's more favorably than they have in two years, with “frequent breakfast eaters” saying they'll consider the chain next time they crave take-out.
Franchise owners in charge of about 90 percent of the 14,350 McDonald's in the U.S. voted to implement all-day breakfast earlier this year, a fact not lost on those unhappy with the change.
“It costs more money and their discounting is lowering our prices,” former McDonald's franchise owner Kathryn Slater-Carter told Fox News. “We are getting fewer dollars in and in the franchise system ... the dollars off the top go to the franchisor. So they make they money and then we are left with what's left to pay our bills and pay our crew.”
Europe's 2008 financial crisis may have resulted in some 50,000 horses to be sold and unwittingly eaten across the United Kingdom, the Telegraph reported Saturday. Food safety expert Chris Elliot gave a speech recently speculating families who couldn't afford to keep their horses likely turned them over to gangs running a black market for horsemeat.
"The idea that 50,000 horses could just disappear may seem incredible to some, but the scale at which some of these gangs can operate is huge,” Elliot said, according to Farmers Weekly. "Wherever there is money to be made -- and the sums involved in food fraud are in the billions -- criminals will find a way."
European authorities uncovered a widespread scandal in 2013 after food inspectors found horsemeat in frozen beef hamburgers, lasagnas and spaghetti sauces carried by stores like Tesco and Aldi. The food fraud discovery triggered a series of recalls and uncertainty over the source of several products, some of which also contained pork, BBC News reported.
The British government tapped Elliot to investigate, and his findings were not surprising, food policy professor Tim Lang told the Telegraph. "The scale might raise eyebrows," he said. "But there are a lot of horses and ponies out there, expensive to run both for pets and betting. And borders are permeable."
Time reported one of the major players in the horsemeat scandal, Dutch trader Willy Selten, was sent to jail in April for his involvement. Selten was sentenced to 2 1/2 years in prison for forging invoices and labels that indicated 330 tons of meat was 100 percent beef when in reality it was a mixture of beef and horsemeat.
American authorities recently carried out its largest animal cruelty bust in history in Loxahatchee, Florida, where owners of three slaughterhouses were found to be selling their meat illegally as well as torturing the animals. 
CARACAS, Venezuela (Reuters) — Venezuela signed an agreement Saturday with the government of Antigua and Barbuda to buy a 25 percent stake in the West Indies Oil Co. (WIOC), Venezuela's state petroleum company said in a statement. Petroleos de Venezuela (PDVSA) gave no financial details about the purchase of the stake in the refining and distribution company owned by the government of the Caribbean island nation.
A member of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, aka OPEC, Venezuela has been seeking greater storage space in the region.
Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro, Foreign Minister Delcy Rodriguez and Oil Minister Eulogio Del Pino, who is also PDVSA president, were in Antigua for the signing as part of a Caribbean tour.
"Under this agreement, PDVSA will obtain a 25 percent participation in WIOC, and it represents the start of joint investments for the benefit of both nations' peoples," the PDVSA statement said, without adding any details on investment plans.
(Writing by Andrew Cawthorne; Editing by Paul Simao)
BERLIN/LOS ANGELES/DETROIT -- Volkswagen made several versions of its "defeat device" software to rig diesel-emissions tests, three people familiar with the matter told Reuters, potentially suggesting a complex deception by the German carmaker. During seven years of self-confessed cheating, Volkswagen altered its illegal software for four engine types, said the sources, who include a VW manager with knowledge of the matter and a U.S. official close to an investigation into the company.
Representatives of VW in Europe and the U.S. declined to comment on whether it developed multiple defeat devices, citing ongoing investigations by the company and authorities in both regions. Asked about the number of people who might have known about the cheating, a representative at company headquarters in Wolfsburg, Germany, said, "We are working intensely to investigate who knew what and when, but it's far too early to tell."
Some industry experts and analysts said several versions of the defeat device raised the possibility that a range of employees were involved. Software technicians would have needed regular funding and knowledge of engine programs, they said.
The number of people involved is a key issue for investors because it could affect the size of potential fines and the extent of management change at the company, said Arndt Ellinghorst, an analyst at the banking-advisory firm Evercore ISI.
Brandon Garrett, a corporate-crime expert at the University of Virginia School of Law, said federal prosecution guidelines would call for the U.S. Justice Department to seek tougher penalties if numerous senior executives were found to have been involved in the cheating. "The more higher-ups that are involved, the more the company is considered blameworthy and deserving of more serious punishment," Garrett said.
Europe's biggest carmaker, VW has been criticized by some lawmakers and analysts for blaming a small number of individuals for the banned software installed in as many as 11 million vehicles worldwide, even while investigations continue.
Its U.S. chief, Michael Horn, told U.S. lawmakers this month that he believed "a couple of software engineers" were responsible, while a letter dated Oct. 8 from VW to the European Parliament blamed "the misconduct of a few people."
Many Changes
VW admitted publicly Sept. 18 to using software that could tell when a diesel vehicle was being tested and temporarily lower its toxic emissions to pass U.S. regulations.
The scandal has wiped around one-quarter off its stock-market value and forced out its longtime CEO.
When it started using defeat-device software in 2008, VW installed it with the EA189 diesel engine. The software was subsequently added to the newer EA288 engine.
"VW would have had to reconfigure the software for each generation of engines," said the U.S. official close to an ongoing investigation into VW.
A U.S.-based expert on diesel engines and testing said the defeat-device software also had to be altered when VW changed the emissions-control system in its engines.
In older diesel models, VW used so-called Lean NOx Traps designed to reduce toxic nitrogen oxides in engine exhaust. From around 2012, it introduced a more sophisticated and expensive system called Selective Catalytic Reduction.
VW's Horn told U.S. lawmakers Oct. 8 that different software was developed for Europe as well. "Since the standards are different, my understanding is that the defeat devices in those [European] cars are as well," he said, without elaborating. Horn added VW was withdrawing its application for regulatory certification of 2016 diesel models because it contained another software feature that had not been disclosed as required by the authorities.
(Reporting by Andreas Cremer, Bruce Wallace and Paul Lienert; Additional reporting by Laurence Frost, Joel Schectman, Gilles Guillaume and Joe White; Writing by Mark Potter; Editing by Janet McBride)
FRANKFURT, Germany (Reuters) -- Former Volkswagen CEO Martin Winterkorn is stepping down as head of Porsche Automobil Holding SE, the family-owned holding company that controls a majority stake in Volkswagen, Porsche SE said in a statement Saturday. Hans Dieter Poetsch, the chief financial officer of Porsche SE and designated new chairman of the VW supervisory board, was appointed to succeed Winterkorn as Porsche SE CEO, effective Nov. 1.
Several German media outlets have reported that Winterkorn, who quit at VW last month, would step down from his remaining posts related to the company in coming days.
Winterkorn resigned as CEO of Europe's largest carmaker after the group admitted cheating in diesel-emissions tests in the U.S., triggering the company's biggest business scandal in its 78-year history. Winterkorn is also chairman of VW's luxury brand Audi, its trucks division Scania  and its newly created Truck & Bus holding.
Lower Saxony, VW's second-biggest shareholder, as well as influential labor leaders at VW have been putting pressure on Winterkorn to resign from his remaining posts within the group, several people familiar with the matter have said.
Volkswagen is considering a reduction in temporary workers as part of efforts to offset the cost of the emissions scandal, the automaker's works council said Saturday.
(Reporting by Arno Schuetze; Editing by Kevin Liffey)
Miranda Lambert shared photos from her skating sessions during her Roadside Bars & Pink Guitars tour on Instagram Friday while rumors about her ex-husband Blake Shelton and Gwen Stefani’s romance heat up. Lambert has been enjoying her single life since announcing her split with the “Sangria” singer in July.
Is this how y'all roll Ft. Wayne, IN? #roadsidebarsandpinkguitars #batshitcrazytour #allskate #fridayfunday
A photo posted by Miranda Lambert (@mirandalambert) on Oct 16, 2015 at 11:35am PDT
Who's driving this train? #allskate #roadsidebarsandpinkguitars #batshitcrazytour #rollwithitbaby
A photo posted by Miranda Lambert (@mirandalambert) on Oct 16, 2015 at 2:44pm PDT
I got towed. #ponchorope #bandbonding #aprilislurking @albedamned1
A photo posted by Miranda Lambert (@mirandalambert) on Oct 16, 2015 at 3:34pm PDT
Lambert also posted a photo of the tours playlist on Apple music.
Thank you @applemusic for spotlighting all the girls on the #roadsidebarsandpinkguitars tour! @raelynnofficial @ashleymonroemusic @claredunnmusic @iamcourtneycole
A photo posted by Miranda Lambert (@mirandalambert) on Oct 16, 2015 at 2:16pm PDT
Amid the “Over You” singer’s focus on her music and friends, Shelton and Stefani’s dating rumors moved ahead with reports claiming that “The Voice” coaches are planning their wedding.
Recently, Life & Style magazine reported, citing a source, that Shelton and Stefani are “talking about a wedding less than four months after each of their marriages imploded.” 
“Blake would marry Gwen today if he could,” the source told the magazine, adding that “NBC would be thrilled if he proposed on the air.”
“It’s more than a hookup,” the source said, adding that the two are planning “an upcoming tropical getaway,” where Shelton will propose to Stefani.
However, Gossip Cop slammed the reports, saying that the two have not been planning a wedding.
Despite months of speculation over Stefani and Shelton’s alleged relationship, the pair has not directly addressed the rumors.
Last week, Shelton fired back on Twitter at rumors about his personal life. The 39-year-old country singer also has been concentrating on his appearance and career since his divorce. He has been showing off a thinner frame and, in an interview last month, said his skinnier physique is a result of what he calls the "divorce diet."
General Motors Co. has discovered a new ignition switch problem that has forced the company to recall thousands of its vehicles. The problem, which can cause engines to stall, was identified before anyone was hurt, a report said Friday.
The Detroit-based automotive company is recalling 3,300 big pickup trucks and SUVs, mostly in North America, to fix the issue that causes engines to turn off. The anomaly can also disable power steering, power brakes and possibly the air bags, the Associated Press (AP) reported.
The latest problem was discovered by an employee who owned one of the affected trucks, and informed senior officials of the company. GM, which quickly decided to recall the trucks, keeping the number relatively small, had five reports of engine shutdowns, but no crashes or injuries, company spokesman Alan Adler told the AP.
The recall reportedly involves some 2014 Chevrolet Silverado and GMC Sierra light-duty pickup trucks, 2015 heavy-duty pickup trucks and 2015 Chevy Suburban and Tahoe SUVs. Dealers will replace the ignition lock housing, GM said in a statement issued Friday, according to the AP.
The new ignition switch problem is similar to one discovered recently in older GM small cars that cost the company billions of dollars last year. The carmaker reportedly recalled 2.6 million cars worldwide to repair the defective switches that caused 169 deaths and hundreds of injuries.
GM also said earlier this month that it would recall 31,685 SUVs in North America to patch up a manufacturing defect in the windshield wiper motor that may overheat, Reuters reported.
Friday’s revelation came only a day after the company announced that it sold 7.2 million vehicles globally in the first nine months of 2015. GM also said it is preparing to launch more new trucks and crossovers in the coming months in North America and China.
By Guillermo Parra-Bernal
SAO PAULO (Reuters) -- A deterioration in the quality of corporate loan books poses the most obvious risk to Brazil's largest listed banks, which are wrestling with the nation's steepest recession in a quarter century, JPMorgan Securities said on Friday.
In a report, analysts led by Saúl Martínez said the nation's top banks are working actively with debt-laden borrowers to ease terms of their credit in order to improve loan affordability, while simultaneously asking for more guarantees. Their assessment was based on talks with industry players.
Such a move comes as banks seek to mitigate the earnings impact of worsening corporate balance sheets, with the country sinking into a recession, a corruption probe at state firms and plunging confidence magnifying the current crisis. At this point, Martínez said, "a small number of loans can have a big impact" on loan-related losses at banks.
"Unexpected losses can be greater for corporate loans given that average exposures to specific borrowers are much larger," the report said. "This is relevant as signs of financial strain in the Brazilian corporate sector are appearing."
His remarks underscore the uncertain outlook facing Brazilian banks. Brazil's economyshrank in recent quarters and is slated to contract this year and next, the first back-to-back annual declines since the 1930s.
Industrial output, retail sales and capital spending indicators have all tumbled over the past two years, with no sign of relief in the near term.
According to the analysts' estimates, if 10 percent of the loan balances of the top 100 borrowers were lowered from non-risk to risky categories, annual bank earnings would fall between 11 percent and 25 percent.
State-controlled Banco do Brasil SA (BBAS3.SA), the nation's largest by assets, appears more vulnerable to a turn in corporate credit quality than private-sector rivals Itaú Unibanco Holding SA (ITUB4.SA) and Banco Bradesco SA BBDC4.SA. Banco do Brasil also has a greater exposure to higher-risk industry groups than the latter banks, the report added.
However, while loan book quality in Latin America's largest economy could worsen and loan-loss provisions may rise, problematic industry cases are up slightly, indicating that the process of loan book deterioration may be in its early days, the report said.
Beyond corporate exposures, Bradesco appears to be more exposed to worsening conditions for small-sized firms, while Itaú's exposure is to unsecured personal credit, Martínez said.
Shares of Banco do Brasil fell 0.5 percent on Friday, while Bradesco shed 0.6 percent. Itaú gained 0.4 percent.
FRANKFURT , Germany (Reuters) -- Volkswagen named Daimler manager Christine Hohmann-Dennhardt on Friday to the newly created post of board member for integrity and legal affairs, as it strives to recover from the scandal over its cheating of diesel emissions tests.
Europe's biggest carmaker said Hohmann-Dennhardt, who has held the same position at German rival Daimler since 2011, would start her new job on Jan. 1, 2016.
VW also said group sales fell 1.5 percent in September from the same month last year. That marked an improvement from a 5.4 percent drop in August and would have seen little impact from the test-cheating scandal, which only came to light in the second half of September.
VW admitted on Sept. 18 it used illegal software to manipulate emissions tests on diesel vehicles in the United States, sparking the biggest business crisis in its history.
The admission has wiped about a quarter off its stock market value, forced out its long-time chief executive and sparked investigations and lawsuits across the world.
Daimler said it had agreed to release Hohmann-Dennhardt from her contract early.
"Daimler is helping VW rebuild trust in the German car industry," said Ferdinand Dudenhoeffer, head of the Center of Automotive Research at the University of Duisburg-Essen.
"It's an important step to help VW clean up the affair."
Though VW has recruited outsiders to senior jobs before, it has a strong tradition of promoting from within and has come under fire from some investors for appointing company veterans as its new CEO and chairman in the wake of the test-cheating scandal.
Before joining Daimler, Hohmann-Dennhardt, 65, was a judge of the federal constitutional court. Prior to that, she held position in the German state of Hesse including minister of science and the arts and minister of justice.
Earlier on Friday, VW promoted Lars-Henner Santelmann to be the new head of its finance arm, Volkswagen Financial Services.
Santelmann, who joined VW in 1988, succeeds Frank Witter who was recently appointed as VW's new chief financial officer.
Breaking down its September sales figures, VW said group sales rose 4.7 percent in western Europe and 7.3 percent in the United States, offset by a 0.8 percent decline inChina, a 26 percent drop in Russia and a 44 percent plunge in Brazil.
(Reporting by Georgina Prodhan and Arno Schuetze; Editing by Harro ten Wolde and Mark Potter)
By Andrea Shalal
WASHINGTON (Reuters) -- Lockheed Martin Corp, the Pentagon's No. 1 supplier, has launched a review aimed at cutting corporate overhead costs by as much as 30 percent, according to two sources familiar with the initiative.
Lockheed would already reduce overhead substantially as part of an announced plan to sell or spin off an array of services businesses with revenue of $6 billion. The move will eliminate one of the $45 billion company's five current business divisions.
Lockheed this week confirmed plans to reduce 250 jobs at its Missiles and Fire Control division, on top of 500 layoffs already announced for the Information Systems and Government Services division now under strategic review.
Lockheed is also analyzing other possible reductions and a range of combined goals, including a 30 percent cut in overhead costs. However, a cut of that magnitude is seen as a "high-end figure that isn't likely," said one of the sources, who asked not to be named since no decisions have been made.
"In a large company you have a lot of overhead and it's affecting more and more bid proposals in terms of cost," the source said. "You're competing against people who are really hungry and willing to offer much lower prices."
Lockheed representatives declined to comment.
Lockheed and other U.S. arms makers have been consolidating facilities, laying off workers and streamlining operations in recent years to cut costs due to a downturn in U.S. military spending. Continued budget uncertainty is driving executives to dig deeper and look for more savings.
Northrop Grumman Corp this week said it would streamline its business sectors from four to three to better align with the U.S. Defense Department's changing needs.
Howard Rubel, defense analyst with Jefferies Group, said Lockheed also faced pressure from the Pentagon to offer price concessions in several billion-dollar contracts it is negotiating: a five-year contract for up to 83 C-130J transport planes, and two separate deals for about 160 F-35 fighter jets.
"They might as well use the impetus of (those contracts) to cut cost and offset the concessions they're being asked to make," he said.
Lockheed is also restructuring the Lockheed Martin International division it first set up in July 2013 to help the company win more international orders, according to three sources familiar with the matter.
Final decisions have not been made, but the business is being converted to a support function to make it work more efficiently, said one of the sources.
(Reporting by Andrea Shalal; Editing by Dan Grebler)
By Lucia Mutikani
WASHINGTON (Reuters) -- U.S. consumer sentiment rebounded strongly in early October, suggesting that the economic recovery remained on track despite headwinds from a strong dollar and weak global demand that have weighed on the industrial sector, particularly manufacturing.
The snapback in sentiment reported on Friday underscored robust domestic demand and offered hope that consumer spending would remain solid enough to support economic growth, which has slowed significantly in recent months.
The University of Michigan said its consumer sentiment index rose to 92.1 in early October from a reading of 87.2 September. The survey's current conditions sub-index shot up to 106.7 this month from 101.2 in September.
The index at current levels has historically been consistent with roughly a 4 percent annualized rate of consumer spending growth, according to economists.
"This suggests that U.S. household sentiment has turned an important corner, and is a hopeful sign on the outlook for consumer spending activity going forward, given signs of weakness in other parts of the economy," said Millan Mulraine, deputy chief economist at TD Securities in New York.
The rise in sentiment, which likely reflected cheaper gasoline prices, suggested limited impact from recent stock market volatility. Consumers were the most optimistic about their personal financial expectations since 2007.
Their views toward purchases of long-lasting manufactured goods were equally bullish.
Consumer spending accounts for more than two-thirds of U.S. economic activity and has been the bright spot in the economy as the industrial sector wobbles under the onslaught of slowing global growth and the resurgent dollar, which have eroded demand for U.S. manufactured goods.
It is also being weighed down by lower energy oil prices that have undercut capital investment in the energy sector, as well as an effort by businesses to whittle down their inventories.
U.S. stocks were trading higher on Friday, while prices were U.S. Treasuries were mostly weaker. The U.S. dollar rose against a basket of currencies.
WEAK INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTION
In a separate report, the Federal Reserve said industrial output slipped 0.2 percent on renewed weakness in oil and gas drilling after dipping 0.1 percent in August. Industrial production rose at an annual rate of 1.8 percent in the third quarter.
"We do not expect the recent slowing to lead to a broader pullback in aggregate growth, as service sector activity remains solid," said Jesse Hurwitz, an economist at Barclays in New York.
Manufacturing accounts for about 12 percent of the U.S. economy. Still, the weak industrial production report added to soft trade, retail sales and employment data that have pointed to a significant slowdown in growth after the economy expanded at a 3.9 percent annual pace in the second quarter.
Third-quarter growth estimates are currently around a 1.5 percent rate. Slower growth and low inflation have diminished expectations of an interest rate hike from the Fed this year.
Manufacturing output fell 0.1 percent in September even though robust demand for automobiles lifted motor vehicle and parts production by 0.2 percent. Manufacturing output dropped by 0.4 percent in August. For the third quarter, manufacturing output increased at a rate of 2.5 percent.
There were declines in the production of computer and electronic products, as well as electronic equipment, appliances and components. Primary metals and machinery output increased.
Mining production fell 2.0 percent as oil and gas well drilling tumbled 4.0 percent after increasing for two straight months. An almost 60 percent plunge in oil prices since June 2014 has hurt the profits of oil-field companies like Schlumberger (SLB.N) and Halliburton Haling, leading to deep cuts in their capital spending budgets.
Utilities production increased 1.3 percent in September. With output declining, industrial capacity use fell to 77.5 percent from 77.8 percent in August. Officials at the Fed tend to look at capacity use as a signal of how much "slack" remains in the economy and how much room there is for growth to accelerate before it becomes inflationary.
The lackluster industrial production picture was reflected in a swathe of manufacturers' results on Friday, with General Electric Co (GE.N) and Honeywell International Inc (HON.N) reporting dips in revenue along with profits that were better than forecast.
(Reporting by Lucia Mutikani; Editing by Paul Simao)
By Ben Klayman
(Reuters) -- Fans of the New York Mets had bemoaned the negative impact of the Bernie Madoff financial scandal on the Major League Baseball team's payroll until Thursday night's series-clinching victory over the Los Angeles Dodgers.
With believers now dreaming of the team's first World Series appearance since 2000, the Mets have enjoyed a similar boost off the field with higher attendance and TV ratings. That leads analysts and bankers to believe the club could be at the start of a virtuous cycle, where winning begets higher revenue and even more winning for years to come.
Fresh off advancing to the National League Championship Series against the Chicago Cubs - another rising team with a compelling hard-luck history - the Mets have combined low-cost, young talent with the amenities of a relatively new home park, Citi Field, which opened in 2009.
The best-of-seven Mets-Cubs series begins on Saturday.
"The stadium, combined with aggressive marketing, combined with youth/hope are a great triple play," said Rick Horrow, sports lecturer at Harvard Law School.
That optimism seemed far away when owners Fred Wilpon and Saul Katz were caught up in Madoff's Ponzi scheme, which was uncovered in late 2008 and cost investors $17 billion in principal. While Wilpon denied it, analysts and bankers said the scandal certainly led to the team's lower payrolls.
The Mets in 2009 had the second-highest payroll in baseball at $142.2 million, but that fell to 21st last year at $84 million, according to Baseball Prospectus. This year it has risen to $101.3 million, which still ranks as 21st.
In 2010, the trustee in charge of recovering money for Madoff victims filed a $1 billion lawsuit against Wilpon, Katz and more than 100 other defendants, claiming they turned a blind eye to the fraud; a charge they denied. The figure was later limited to $386 million by a federal judge.
Wilpon and Katz settled that lawsuit in 2012 by agreeing to give up their claims to all but $16 million of the $178 million they lost in the Madoff fraud, though it is unlikely they will recover any funds.
In addition, the settlement calls for Wilpon and Katz to pay as much as $29 million over the next two years to help repay other Madoff customers who lost money in the scheme.
But the team and its finances are now on an upward trajectory.
“We were trending upward before the start of the season,” Mets chief revenue officer Lou DePaoli said, citing ticket sales and sponsorship deals. “Both have accelerated, particularly over the past two months ... and we are already in the process of working to grow all these elements for 2016.”
YOUTH-DRIVEN REBOUND
The Mets have racked up wins on the field relying on young, inexpensive star pitchers like Jacob deGrom and Noah Syndergaard, which allowed the team to also add Cuban slugger Yoenis Cespedes in July.
This week's playoff run glued some of the biggest names on Wall Street and finance to their TVs, laptops or smartphones for Thursday night's clinching divisional series win against the Dodgers.
Devin Wenig, CEO of eBay Inc, attended last weekend’s games in Los Angeles. "As a displaced New Yorker, I have carried my love of the Mets to Silicon Valley," he told Reuters. "There is a sense of renewal for a franchise long overdue for its moment in the spotlight."
Mohamed El-Erian, the chief economic adviser for financial services company Allianz SE and self-described "long-suffering fan," posted a congratulatory tweet. "@Mets-@Cubs!! Should be a great #NLCS. Congratulations #Mets, and #LetsGoMets!"
The team's winning this year has helped boost attendance and TV ratings, which translates to higher revenue, pushing the value of the franchise higher. Forbes magazine valued the team at $1.35 billion in March, the seventh-highest valuation in the sport and up 69 percent from the year before. Only three other teams had higher estimated growth.
Mets attendance totaled 2,569,753 people this season, an increase of 18 percent from last year. However, that still lags the more than 3.1 million the team drew in Citi Field's first year in 2009 and analysts said there is no excuse for a New York team not to draw at least 3 million fans.
"When you have teams like the Mets ... that have struggled for a few years, when the team starts to perform well it is really heartening for our business to see the fans flock back," MLB Commissioner Rob Manfred told Reuters.
REVENUE SWEET SPOT
While ticket prices at Citi Field rank only 18th in the 30-team league at an average of $25 apiece according to Team Marketing Report, there is risk with raising prices too fast and then having a possibly mediocre 2016, said Robert Tilliss, chief executive of sports banker Inner Circle Sports.
"You've generated a little bit more revenue in that case, but now you've agitated your fan base. It's definitely a delicate balance," he said.
One element in the team's favor is a wealthy fan base that has been waiting for a winner to return, which suggests huge upside for team revenue.
"It's kind of like cicadas," said Marc Ganis, president of consulting firm Sportscorp Ltd. "They stay dormant under the ground, but my goodness when they come out seven years later, they come out in force and are as loud as can be."
That is reflected in higher merchandise sales - almost double last year's levels compared with industry average growth of 5-6 percent.
Mets viewer ratings also spiked 68 percent this year on SportsNet New York, the regional sports TV network the team partly owns, and that translates to higher ad rates, analysts and bankers said. It was the most-watched season since 2010.
Meanwhile, Madoff, 77, the man blamed by many for the Mets' years of losing, is serving his 150-year prison term after pleading guilty in 2009 to masterminding the scheme. Listed under the register number 61727-054, he is not set to be released until Nov. 14, 2139, according to the Federal Bureau of Prisons website.
Madoff could not be reached for comment from the Federal Correctional Complex in Butner, North Carolina, where he is being held. But there is plenty of reason for him, along with Mets fans everywhere, to have hopes for better days ahead for the team.
(Reporting by Ben Klayman in Detroit; Additional reporting by Jennifer Ablan, Joseph Ax and Larry Fine in New York and Steve Ginsburg in Washington; Editing by Edward Tobin and Matthew Lewis)
Shares of United Continental Holdings Inc. (NYSE:UAL) fell 3 percent Friday after CEO Oscar Munoz suffered a heart attack a day earlier, the Wall Street Journal reported, citing a person familiar with the matter. The 56-year-old executive is being treated at a Chicago hospital.
United directors are “waiting to hear back from his family and his doctors" regarding further details about the heart attack, the Journal said. They hope to know within the next 24 hours whether the airline will need to appoint an interim leader, the Journal reported, citing a source.
We have been informed by Oscar’s family that he was admitted to the hospital on Thursday and we will provide further details as appropriate. In the meantime, we are continuing to operate normally. Our thoughts and prayers are with his family and we are respecting their privacy, the airline said in a statement Friday.
Following the announcement, shares of the second-largest U.S. airliner fell more than 3 percent, trading as low as $55.05.
Munoz was recently named president and chief executive officer of United Airlines on Sept. 8 after Jeff Smisek stepped down amid a federal investigation into the airline’s relationship with the former chairman of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey.
The company is scheduled to report its latest quarterly results next Thursday.
United Continental Holdings is forecast to report third-quarter earnings of $1.5 billion, or $4.38 per share, on revenue of $10.3 billion, according to analysts polled by Thomson Reuters. That compares with a profit of $924 million, or $2.37 per share, on sales of $10.6 billion for the same time last year.
In July, United Continental cut its domestic capacity growth outlook for the year amid soft revenue.
The carrier now expects domestic capacity, or the expansion in the supply of available U.S. seats this year, to grow in the range of 0 percent to 1 percent, down from an earlier forecast in April had called for growth of 0.2 percent to 1.2 percent.
Major oil and gas companies and coal mining giants this week expressed support for the global effort to confront climate change. But that doesn’t mean the energy firms will be keeping their fossil fuels in the ground to avoid harmful emissions. The public statements and CEO-signed letters largely reflect the companies’ interests in ramping up natural gas investments and smoothing competition among coal exporters, analysts say.
The heads of eight of the world’s largest oil companies met in Paris Friday to voice support for the United Nations’ goal to limit warming to 2 degrees Celsius above pre-industrial levels. The unusual gathering of oil firms, which doesn't include U.S. companies, arrives as more than 190 countries -- including the top three emitters, China, the U.S. and India -- are preparing to forge an agreement in December to cut greenhouse gas emissions and shift toward cleaner, more efficient energy supplies.
The group, called the Oil and Gas Climate Initiative, has emerged at a time when energy companies are increasingly expanding their interests in natural gas. Advances in hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, technologies have driven a surge of abundant, cheaper gas, which is increasingly replacing higher-carbon coal in U.S. and global power plants and industrial facilities. Oil company executives in Paris advocated for policies to accelerate that transition -- a move that would drive demand for their gas supplies.
“The availability of natural gas provides some underlying economic impetus for these companies to support reductions in greenhouse gases,” Steve Piper, director of energy research at SNL Energy in Boulder, Colorado, said. “A significant number of [fossil fuel companies] now want to get out in front of any limitations that might take place, so that they can preserve their share in the market to come.”
Oil and Gas Climate Initiative members are, from left to right: Helge Lund, BG Group; Bob Dudley, BP; Claudio Descalzi, Eni; Emilio Lozoya, Pemex; Josu Jon Imaz, Repsol; Amin Nasser, Saudi Aramco; Eldar Sætre, Statoil; and Patrick Pouyanné, Total. (CEOs not pictured: Mukesh Ambani, Reliance Industries; Ben van Beurden, Royal Dutch Shell.) Photo: Oil and Gas Climate Initiative  Members in the initiative include the heads of France’s Total SA, Britain’s BP PLC and BG Group, Italy’s Eni, Norway’s Statoil, Spain’s Repsol and the national oil companies of Saudi Arabia and Mexico. The CEOs of Royal Dutch Shell PLC and India’s Reliance Industries are also members.
In a separate effort Wednesday, 14 carbon-intensive companies, including mining giants BHP Billiton and Rio Tinto, jointly endorsed the U.N. climate negotiations and the ultimate aim of “progressively decarbonizing the global economy,” according to a statement organized by the Center for Climate and Energy Solutions in Washington.
Global production of natural gas has surged from roughly 1 trillion cubic meters in the early 1970s to nearly 3.5 trillion cubic meters in 2014, according to BP’s Statistical Review. Production is expected to surge in coming decades as power companies and energy-intensive industries shift from coal to lower-carbon natural gas and renewable energy supplies like wind and solar power. In the U.S. in April, electricity from natural gas overtook coal supplies for the first time since the 1970s, federal energy analysts found.
But the gas-focused push of some energy companies has drawn criticism from environmental groups and climate policy experts. While natural gas emits about half as much carbon dioxide pollution per energy produced as coal, the production of gas can cause substantial emissions of methane -- which is dozens of times more potent than CO2 as an agent of global warming. Researchers estimate that to achieve the target of 2 degrees Celsius, about two-thirds of the earth’s fossil fuel reserves will need to stay in the ground, including 50 percent of existing gas reserves, 80 percent of coal and 30 percent of oil.
Global production of natural gas has surged from roughly 1,000 billion cubic meters in the early 1970s to nearly 3,500 billion cubic meters in 2014. Photo: BP Statistical Review Of World Energy
Anthony Hobley, CEO of Carbon Tracker Initiative, said that while he “cautiously welcomed” the Oil and Gas Climate Initiative, he’s wary that a heavy push toward natural gas could “crowd out” investments in renewables and other low-carbon energy alternatives. He added that the 10 energy executives have yet to specify how their companies will aid in the shift away from high-carbon energy or help drive down greenhouse gas emissions.
“They really need to get to that extra step to convince people this is not a cynical ploy” to deflect scrutiny from the fossil fuel industry, he said. “You’ve got to give them due credit for stepping out. But now they need to demonstrate that this is real.”
For coal mining giants like Rio Tinto and BHP Billiton, the motivation for backing a global climate treaty has less to do with accelerating new production than leveling the playing field among competitors. As individual countries adopt strategies to reduce emissions, the companies operating in those markets will find themselves at an unfair advantage against those in unrestricted markets, Edgar van der Meer, a senior analyst with NRG Expert in Toronto, said in an email.
“There has to be a level playing field, and if [high-demand] countries such as China and Indonesia don’t sign on to these types of agreements, the market for the companies active in the countries that do will be skewed,” he said. So while a global carbon policy would affect the companies’ bottom lines, “this can be offset with charging higher prices. However, if not all players have to adhere to this, those players will have the competitive edge.”
U.S. stocks closed higher Friday after fluctuating during afternoon trading as investors weighed a series of mixed data and earnings reports, pointing to expectations the Federal Reserve will delay a rate hike this year. The likelihood of the Fed hiking borrowing costs before the end of 2015 diminished again this week after two top Fed officials came out strongly in favor of delaying a rate hike until next year, while mixed retail sales and inflation data triggered sizable downgrades to estimates of third-quarter gross domestic product growth.
The Dow Jones Industrial Average (INDEXDJX:.DJI) added 74.22 points, or 0.43 percent, to close at 17,215.97. The Standard & Poor's 500 index (INDEXSP:.INX) added 9.24 points, or 0.46 percent, to finish at 2,033.10. The Nasdaq composite (INDEXNASDAQ:.IXIC) rose 16.59 points, or 0.34 percent, to end at 4,886.69.
U.S. stocks closed higher for the third straight week, with the Dow adding 0.8 percent, or 133 points. The S&P 500 index added 0.9 percent, or 18 points and the Nasdaq rose 1.1 percent, or 56 points. 
Wall Street closed sharply higher a day earlier, with the blue-chip Dow leaping more than 200 points after William Dudley, the president of Federal Reserve Bank of New York, said recent data suggests the U.S. economy is slowing, pushing out market professionals' expectations for the central bank to raise rates this year.
Capital Economics forecasts third-quarter U.S. GDP growth to come in at a 1.5 percent annualized pace, and overall growth for the year close to 2.4 percent.
“Our view is that the Fed will now wait until next year, most probably March,” Paul Ashworth, chief U.S. economist at Capital Economics, said in a research note Friday. However, the longer the Fed waits, the faster it will eventually need to hike rates to combat what could now be a very rapid rise in inflation next year, Ashworth warned.
Oxford Economics also trimmed the odds for December rate lift-off to 50 percent from 55 percent this week.
“Our base case remains that domestic momentum and gradually firming inflation will lead the Fed to lift rates in December. However, there is a real risk that the headwinds of weak global growth, the strong dollar, and lower oil prices will delay lift-off until next year,” Gregory Daco, head of U.S. macroeconomics at Oxford Economics, said in a note.
Wall Street continued to eye third-quarter earnings season, an important measure as it provides an updated read on the pace of economic growth, both at home and abroad, as reflected by company releases.
"It is likely to impact near-term price swings of equities, impacting sentiment and perhaps weighing on the Fed’s looming rate lift-off date," U.S. Bank Wealth Management said in its weekly Market & Economics report.
Shares of Dow component General Electric Company (NYSE:GE) gained more than 2 percent after the multinational conglomerate turned in quarterly earnings above Wall Street forecasts, while revenues fell short of estimates.
Seven of the 10 sectors in the Standard & Poor's 500 index traded higher, led by a 1 percent gain in consumer staple stocks, while the energy sector was the largest laggard, down 0.5 percent.
The Dow Jones Transportation Average traded more than 1 percent lower, led by losses from regional U.S. railroad Kansas City Southern (NYSE:KSU), which sank 8.5 percent.
U.S. consumer sentiment came in higher than expected in October, rising to a three-month high, signaling a rebound in confidence amid recent concerns of a slowing global economy.
The University of Michigan's preliminary October reading came in at 92.1, higher than the previous month's reading of 87.2. Experts were forecasting for the reading to come in at 89, according to analysts polled by Thomson Reuters.
The rebound in the University of Michigan's consumer confidence survey in October reflects the sharp decline in gasoline prices over the past month and the fading turmoil in stock markets.
Separately, a decline in industrial production in September suggests the impact the stronger U.S. dollar is having on manufacturing and the effects the slump in energy prices is having on mining output. Industrial output fell 0.2 percent after a revised 0.1 percent decline in August, the Federal Reserve said Friday.
Prospects that the U.S. Federal Reserve will raise historically low interest rates in 2015 continue to crumble, following a week of downbeat messages from Fed officials and unconvincing economic data critical to the coming rate decision.
Market sentiment now indicates a mere 5 percent probability that the Fed will lift near-zero interest rates at its Oct. 28 meeting. Those odds rise to 30 percent for the meeting scheduled in December, despite Fed Chair Janet Yellen’s repeated assurances that she expects to lift rates by the end of the year.
Although banks are eager for higher interest earnings and markets have clamored for certainty around the timing of the inevitable decision, consumers might breathe a little easier. If the Fed opts against liftoff in 2015, borrowers will have another few months to refinance mortgages and pick up low-interest credit cards before rates rise. The tradeoff, of course: Savings accounts will continue to accrue infinitesimal interest income.
For global markets, the news carries even greater significance. European Central Bank Vice President Vitor Constancio said Thursday that a 2015 American rate rise could destabilize the world economy by attracting more capital into the U.S. during a particularly tenuous period for emerging markets. “The global economy has become more vulnerable than ever before to very large real and financial spillovers,” Constancio said.
Inharmonious Communications
Those fears are easing this week as Fed officials voice doubts that economic indicators support a rate hike. In a speech Monday, Fed Gov. Lael Brainard swore against making “calendar-based statements” -- of the sort that Yellen and others have made -- suggesting that lower-than-expected inflation data supports “continuing to carefully nurture the U.S. recovery” with low interest rates.
The next day, fellow Gov. Daniel Tarullo said he did not “expect that it would be appropriate” to lift rates in 2015, given the shaky economic situation.
The comments, which seemed to contradict the expectations of Yellen and Federal Reserve Vice Chairman Stanley Fischer, created the appearance of a rift. JPMorgan Chase economist Michael Feroli wrote that the Fed’s “communications may continue to sound inharmonious” up until December.
But William Dudley, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, downplayed the officials’ differences in a panel discussion Thursday. "We are all pretty much on the same page,” Dudley said, after raising concerns around the effects of the strong dollar and sliding global growth on U.S. economic expansion.
Economic data released Thursday proved unconvincing. Although monthly jobless claims of 255,000 surprised analysts with a drop to the lowest point since 1973, inflation remained muted. Overall, prices fell 0.2 percent for the month of September, while so-called core inflation, which excludes energy and food, picked up 1.9 percent for the year.

Before it lifts interest rates, the Fed is looking for an indication that inflation will hit a solid 2 percent, a level that has proved elusive as cheap energy puts a damper on price gains. Although unemployment has fallen to 5.1 percent from a 2010 high of 10 percent, the expected pickup in inflation still has not materialized.
Wage gains, meanwhile, remain “mostly subdued,” according to the Fed’s semi-regular Beige Book of economic commentary.
Global concerns are likely to remain paramount as the Fed prepares to reconvene. The late summer’s global market tumult, stemming largely from soft economic news and plummeting asset prices in China, weighed on the Fed’s decision to keep rates at virtually zero in its September meeting.
For the first time in years, the Fed’s official statement explicitly cited “global economic and financial developments” in its reasoning.
Incidentally, equity markets the world over have experienced a rebound in October, heartened by the vanishing prospects of a 2015 U.S. rate hike, which would draw capital out of emerging markets and drive some investors to cash out of stock positions.
If you’re having trouble wrapping your head around what it means that Alibaba Group will buy out the Chinese video website Youku Tudou for about $3.6 billion, think of it like this: China’s Amazon buying China’s YouTube, just six months after making a multimillion-dollar investment in China’s Paramount Pictures, all to head Netflix off at the pass.
It’s a bit of an oversimplification: Youku is one of several enormous video sites in China, and Alibaba doesn’t hold inventory the way Amazon does – but the takeaway is the same: Digital video is exploding in China, and Alibaba is making a big investment to ensure it get a major share of that growth.
“I’ve always admired what [Youku founder Victor Koo] has built,” Alibaba Group Executive Chairman Jack Ma said in a statement released Friday. “A closer partnership with Youku will give us the opportunity to support Victor and his leadership team to fulfill the dream of building the leading digital entertainment platform in China.”
The $3.6 billion Alibaba is laying out buys the portion of Youku that it didn’t own already; Alibaba partnered with private equity firm Yunfeng to buy an 18.5 percent stake in the video website last year. Alibaba’s offer of $26.60 a share is 5 percent higher than Youku’s Friday morning opening stock price of $25.10. Under the proposal, Youku founder Koo would continue as chairman and CEO of the video service.
Youku Tudou, which offers a mix of licensed, premium and user-generated content, attracts more than 500 million unique visitors monthly, according to company filings. But despite its large audience, Youku, like Google-owned YouTube, has had trouble turning a profit. Revenues for the company in its second quarter came in at 1.61 billion yuan ($259.6 million), up 57 percent from the previous quarter last year. But its losses doubled to 342 million yuan ($55.2 million).
YouTube may not be profitable, but it has a much bigger business: $4 billion in sales in 2014, primarily from advertising, according to the Wall Street Journal.
That red ink did not deter Alibaba, which has been looking for a platform for the entertainment content it intends to begin producing to head off competition from big Chinese rivals like the search engine Baidu and the social media giant Tencent, as well as American entries like Netflix, which has been probing for an in to the mushrooming Chinese digital video market. There are 649 million Internet users in China, most of them mobile, and 71 percent of them watch full-length videos on their mobile phones. Alibaba launched its own streaming video platform, Tmall Box Office, in September.
The Youku acquisition follows a string of Alibaba investments on the entertainment front, including a $382 million stake in production company Beijing Enlight Media, the third-largest film distributor in China, and an $804 million majority stake in ChinaVision, now renamed Alibaba Pictures Group, according to the South China Morning Post. Last year, Alibaba also paid $1.04 billion for a 20 percent stake in Wasu Media, a company that has also had discussions with Netflix about licensing some of the American streaming giant’s content, including “House of Cards."
Establishing a command position in this market will be vital for Alibaba as China continues its march toward a consumption economy. Its most recent earnings report showed that quarterly revenues grew 28 percent year over year, to $3.4 billion, a number that seemed to dissatisfy Wall Street; Alibaba’s stock price has slid nearly 19 percent over the past year. Being able to produce and distribute content that consumers will want to watch, either a la carte or on a subscription basis, could provide a vital revenue stream for decades to come.
"Digital products, especially video, are just as important as physical goods in e-commerce,” Ma said.
The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has rejected AstraZeneca PLC’s diabetes drug combination, the U.K. drugmaker said Friday. The FDA, in a complete response letter (CRL), told the company to provide more clinical data for the type 2 diabetes medication -- a combination of saxagliptin and dapagliflozin drugs.
The health administration’s move came as a setback for AstraZeneca, which has been trying to secure a place in the drug market by bringing newer treatments. The drugmaker’s rivals such as Paris-based Sanofi, Denmark’s Novo Nordisk A/S and Indianapolis-based Eli Lilly & Co. are stepping up to bring in new treatments amid the growing diabetes pandemic, according to Bloomberg.
“The CRL states that more clinical data are required to support the application. This includes clinical trial data from ongoing or completed studies and may require information from new studies. AstraZeneca will work closely with the FDA to determine the appropriate next steps for the NDA and remains committed to the development of the saxagliptin/ dapagliflozin fixed-dose combination,” AstraZeneca said in a statement.
The company, however, said the FDA’s decision did not “affect ongoing interactions with other health authorities as part of these individual application procedures.” AstraZeneca’s shares fell 1 percent in early trading on Friday, underperforming a 1 percent rise in the European drugs sector, Reuters reported.
Last year, AstraZeneca estimated that the saxagliptin and dapagliflozin drug combination for type 2 diabetes could generate top annual sales of $3 billion, out of total diabetes revenue of $8 billion expected by 2023, according to Reuters.
Saxagliptin, which is marketed under Onglyza brand name, is part of a class of drugs called DPP-4 inhibitors. Under saxagliptin's treatment, the body produces more insulin, which in turn removes sugar from the blood. Dapagliflozin, sold as Farxiga in the U.S., is an SGLT-2 inhibitor, a drug type that blocks sugar from being absorbed into the kidneys. In this process, excess sugar is removed from the body through urine, controlling diabetes.
Many close aides of Russian President Vladimir Putin may have benefited from so-called mirror trades worth $6 billion conducted by Deutsche Bank AG between 2011 and early 2015, Bloomberg reported, citing sources familiar to the issue. The U.S. Department of Justice is currently investigating if the bank conducted proper background checks on the transactions that could have covered up the flow of money from sanctions-hit Russian nationals.
Through the transactions known as mirror trades, which can be done legally, a client can use the money in one market to buy securities while getting out of similar securities in another market. American prosecutors are investigating if Deutsche Bank violated U.S. laws while conducting the transactions for entities between Moscow and London, and if it complied with U.S. money-laundering reporting practices. The sources reportedly said that the assets associated with several such accounts were linked to Putin’s aides, including two of his longtime friends, Arkady and Boris Rotenberg, who are currently under U.S. sanctions.
It was not clear if Arkady, Boris or other individuals linked to the accounts are being investigated for the trades. Deutsche Bank said, according to Bloomberg, that it was keeping American and European regulators informed of the findings through its own review, first reported about in June, while a spokesperson for the Rotenbergs denied any involvement in such transactions. Britain’s Financial Conduct Authority and New York State’s Department of Financial Services are also looking into the trades.
The Bloomberg report also said, citing a Russian official, that Putin is aware of the allegations about the involvement of the Rotenbergs, who have signed contracts with state-run firms. The source also reportedly added that officials are concerned that the investigation could grow into a controversy similar to one from over a decade ago, when Russian nationals held accounts at the Bank of New York Co., which later admitted to not disclosing billions of dollars in its accounts, and violating taxes and duties.
While sources said that a relative outside of Putin’s immediate family may have been involved, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov reportedly said: “No one has seen any serious information on this that can be attributed to any serious source.”
The report also said, citing sources, that business associates of Arkady had asked the Moscow office of UBS to do mirror trades for at least one of his brothers in 2011 but the Zurich-based bank denied the business. The allegation was also denied by Andrey Baturin, a spokesman for Arkady and Boris Rotenberg, who refuted allegations of any connection between the Rotenbergs and the mirror trades with Deutsche Bank, to move capital out of Russia.
The U.S. justice department’s investigation into the case became public in August and is one of the many active criminal investigations by the U.S. against the bank. Deutsche Bank said in September that it will close its investment banking operations in Russia to “reduce complexity, costs, risks and capital consumption.”
Nestlé SA is looking to bring its instant noodles, Maggi, back to store shelves in India, where it was banned in June for higher-than-permissible lead content. Maggi, on its part, has always challenged these findings.
The tests mandated by a court in India following the ban showed the samples fit for consumption and the company aims to reintroduce the product "at the earliest [possible time]," Nestlé said in a press release Friday.
India's federal food safety authorities ordered the packaged noodles off the shelves after finding they contained higher-than-permissible levels of lead and elevated levels of monosodium glutamate (MSG) -- findings which Nestlé disputed.
The Swiss company recalled its products, about 27,000 metric tons of them, but said at the time its own tests showed the noodles were safe and met India’s rules. Nestlé also went to court challenging the food safety authorities' order as well as how India's food safety rules were interpreted in a ban of its product in the western state of Maharashtra.
The state's Bombay High Court ruled in August to lift the ban, but mandated new tests to decide if Nestle could manufacture Maggi for sale in India again.
The company has received test results from the three laboratories mandated by the Bombay High Court to test Maggi noodles samples, and "all the 90 samples, covering 6 variants, tested by these laboratories are clear with lead much below the permissible limits," Nestlé said in the statement.
In compliance with the court's ruling, "we will now commence manufacture and will start selling only after the newly manufactured products are also cleared by the designated three laboratories," the company said.
Volkswagen AG’s market share in Europe slipped to its lowest levels in six months as the German carmaker reeled under a massive emissions scandal that has affected nearly 11 million of its diesel vehicles worldwide. According to data released Friday by the Brussels-based European Automobile Manufacturers’ Association (ACEA), the owner of the VW, Audi, Skoda, Seat and Porsche car brands accounted for 23.3 percent of the region’s auto sales last month, down from 23.6 percent a year earlier.
However, given that a bulk of Volkswagen’s sales occurred before the full extent of the diesel emissions scandal came to light, the company retained the lion’s share of the car market in the region. In the European Union (EU), for instance, the group’s overall sales were up 8.4 percent year-on-year in September, while the sales of the Volkswagen brand cars rose 6.6 percent.

The gain of 8.4 percent lagged behind the sector’s overall growth of 9.8 percent in the EU, according to data released by ACEA. Industry-wide registrations in Europe rose to 1.39 million vehicles in September from 1.27 million a year earlier, with nine-month sales increasing 8.8 percent to 10.8 million vehicles, the ACEA said.
Volkswagen’s use of “defeat devices” to cheat on emissions tests in the U.S. came to light last month, leading to the eventual resignation of former chief Martin Winterkorn and triggering widespread investigations into the carmaker’s practices.
The company could face up to 35 billion euros ($40 billion) in fines and legal costs in the U.S. and Europe. Additionally, the scandal has also wiped out a third of the company’s market value, making it the worst crisis in the automaker’s 78-year history.
The ACEA report comes just a day after the carmaker outlined plans to recall 8.5 million of its affected vehicles in the EU. Volkswagen's newly appointed CEO Matthias Mueller said Thursday that the company has “a good chance of shining again in two to three years.”
SHANGHAI -- China’s volatile stock markets have helped the number of dollar billionaires in the country outstrip that of the U.S. for the first time, despite the country’s economic slowdown, according to a new report. As of mid-August, the country had 596 billionaires, up 242 on 2014, and above the U.S. figure of 537, said Shanghai-based consultancy Hurun Report in its annual China Rich List.
The total wealth of the 1,877 people on the list, each of whom has a personal value of at least 2 billion yuan (around $310 million), exceeds the GDP of India, the report added. 
Real estate tycoon and AMC cinema chain owner Wang Jianlin is now China’s richest man, with $34.4 billion, wresting the title back from Jack Ma, founder of e-commerce giant Alibaba. However, the information technology sector saw the fastest growth overall, the report said, with Lei Jun, founder of smartphone maker Xiaomi, joining social media tycoon Pony Ma of Tencent in the top five.

“China’s wealthy are defying gravity. The country has created more wealth in the past year than any nation has ever done in such a short space of time,” Rupert Hoogewerf, Hurun’s founder, who has compiled the list for the past 17 years, told International Business Times.
Hoogewerf said the boom on China’s stock markets in the year to June, and a slew of new market listings, played a significant part in the growth in wealth. Since June the market has plunged -- including a further 14 percent fall since the cut-off date for compilation of the rich list in mid-August. However, share prices remain some 50 percent up on summer 2014, and Hoogewerf said the recent decline would not have a “major material impact” on the trends he identified.
“I don’t think we've seen the peak. I don't expect that we’ll maintain the same explosive growth next year -- the past year was unusual, with a pent-up unleashing of initial public offerings by Chinese companies,” he acknowledged. “Maybe we’ll see 100 more people becoming billionaires next year. But I think there’s no question that this year is a turning point -- a watershed for Chinese entrepreneurship.”
Noting that Chinese Web start-ups like group-purchasing site Meituan and restaurant review app Dazhong Dianping, which recently announced their merger, have "become $15 billion companies in about five years," Hoogewerf said many young Chinese people were showing imagination in "leveraging capital markets to apply to new business models."
“Most of the people on this list are self-made, more so than among U.S. billionaires,” he said. “Chinese people have clearly got the entrepreneurship bug -- and they have ideas that are worth studying. I think more of the world’s young people will turn their attention to China if they’re looking for role models in the future.”
Some of those on the list come from more traditional sectors of the economy, with four of the top 10 still gaining at least part of their wealth from real estate, which boomed in China from the late 1990s until slowing down over the past three years. Richest man Wang Jianlin, founder of the conglomerate Dalian Wanda, made much of his wealth from real estate, and has seen his valuation rise 52 percent in the past year due to the listing of his Chinese cinema chain on the stock market in January. Wang has been busy investing around the world, buying not only U.S. chain AMC, but also investing in prime real estate in Europe and the U.S., and buying sports marketing company Infront Sports and Media, as well as stakes in soccer club Atletico Madrid, and the World Triathlon Corporation.
The youngest person on the list, 29-year-old Yan Hao, meanwhile, gained his $14.2 billion wealth from his family’s road construction company, which he took over from his father.

However, Hoogewerf noted that the number of IT entrepreneurs on the list rose fastest, by 43 percent, in a sign that China was “moving up the value chain.” And while last year’s No. 1, Alibaba’s Jack Ma, saw his wealth drop 3 percent to $22.7 billion -- as the company’s stock price fell back after its U.S. market listing -- Hoogewerf said Ma could expect a significant boost from the planned listing of the company’s financial arm, Ant Financial, next year. He added that there were now 18 Alibaba employees on the rich list.
Others from the sector also rose fast. China’s wealthiest woman is now the “Touchscreen Queen” Zhou Qunfei of smartphone screen manufacturer Lens -- one of the women who make up around 21 percent of the list. Hurun said she and her husband were now worth $10 billion.
China’s "drone king," 35-year-old Frank Wang Tao of DJI-Innovations, also got on the list, with $3.4 billion. And Cheng Wei, founder of Didi Kuaidi, the country’s biggest ride-hailing app -- which last week announced it had got China’s first official ride-hailing license, for Shanghai -- also made the list, with wealth of just over $1 billion. Other up-and-coming young entrepreneurs include 30-year-old Zhang Xuhao, who founded the 020 restaurant delivery service while at university, and is valued at $310 million.
The rise of IT entrepreneurs is good news for the Chinese government, which has pledged to place more emphasis on creative industries and innovation as demand for manufacturing exports and raw materials slows down. Yet some skeptics still predict a bubble in China’s hi-tech industries. Hoogewerf acknowledged that while Xiaomi founder Lei Jun’s wealth doubled to $14 billion, “Xiaomi’s valuation of itself at $45 billion has been challenged by some in the media.” And Robin Li, founder of China’s main search engine Baidu, fell one place to seventh on the list -- amid what some reports said were worries over the scale of the company's spending on expanding its business, and speculation about the return of competitor Google to the Chinese market, from which it is currently banned.
Li Hejun, founder of solar power company Hanergy, meanwhile, has fallen back to 12th place following suspension of trading in his company's shares on Hong Kong’s stock market in May, amid an investigation into its dealings.
And there were other losers too, reflecting broader trends in China's economy: Hurun said it had been a “tough year” for energy and steel sectors, while retail tycoons made up only 16.1 percent of the list, the lowest proportion since it began.
However, despite China's export slowdown, the manufacturing sector still dominated the list, accounting for 28 percent of its members, 5 percent higher than last year.
And though, in its early years, being on the Hurun Rich List was once seen as putting entrepreneurs at risk of being investigated for tax evasion, Hoogewerf stressed that those on this year's list paid 4 percent of China's total tax revenues -- and added that, despite China's ongoing anti-corruption campaign, “only 16” of those on the list were “in varying degrees of trouble with the authorities,” two fewer than the previous year.
The list also shows the continuing value of political connections for Chinese entrepreneurs. More than 200 of those on the list are delegates to China’s legislature or its advisory body -- including retired NBA basketball star Yao Ming, one of several celebrities on the list, who is valued at $330 million.
Nestle, the world's largest packaged food company, lowered its full-year outlook on Friday, as a Maggi noodle recall in India knocked sales and undercalculated U.S. Skin Health rebates weighed on the Swiss company's profits.
Sales dropped 2.1 percent to 64.9 billion Swiss francs ($68 billion) in the nine months through September, missing analysts' average forecast of 65.9 billion in a Reuters poll.
Organic or underlying growth, adjusted for currency swings, acquisitions and divestitures, slowed to 4.2 percent in the period from 4.5 percent in the first half, sliding further behind its 5 percent target for 2015.
The company cut its 2015 outlook to around 4.5 percent, below its long-term model calling for 5 to 6 percent growth.
"The shortfall comes from pricing, as Nestle does not seem to have been able to pursue its pricing actions as hoped, and more importantly the issue seems to be again the Asia, Oceania, Australia region, with sales down in the third quarter," Barclays analysts wrote in a note.
Chief Executive Paul Bulcke said: "After a good performance in the first half of the year, we were impacted in the third quarter by exceptional events, with Maggi noodles in India and a rebate adjustment in Nestle Skin Health."
Maggi noodles were subject to a recall in India over safety concerns.
In the United States, frozen food sales began improving after a revamp of Nestle's Lean Cuisine brand, but this contrasted with lagging sales in China, which showed a slower sales recovery, Bulcke said.
SIGNIFICANT IMPACT
India's Maggi noodle recall continued to have a significant impact on growth in the South Asia Region, Nestle said.
In its Skin Health division, Nestle's U.S. prescription drug rebates exceeded what it had set aside for this purpose, resulting in an additional one-off charge in the third quarter.
Despite prospects that Europe's hot summer would have consumers grabbing ice cream out of freezers, sales at the group's milk products and ice cream unit fell 350 million francs year-on-year to 11 billion. Water, however, achieved 7.1 organic growth through September, second only to confectionery at 7.8 percent.
Nestle earlier this month confirmed it was in advanced talks to merge its international ice cream business with R&R Ice Cream, in its latest effort to refocus on other, higher-performing brands and advance its goal of becoming a "nutrition, health and wellness" company.
Unilever, the global number one in ice cream, on Thursday posted third-quarter underlying sales up 5.7 percent, thanks in part to a strong summer. But the Anglo-Dutch group said it expected sluggish global markets to keep weighing on performance.
Nestle stock trades at around 21.4 times 12-month forward earnings, above Danone and Unilever, according to StarMine, which weights analysts' estimates by their track record.
LONDON -- Uber, the world's largest ride-hailing app, has won a significant legal battle in Britain after the High Court in London decided that the company's app is not the same as a taximeter and is therefore not breaking the law. Under pressure from London's iconic black cab drivers and unions, Transport for London (TfL) brought the case against Uber claiming the app was being used as a taximeter and should therefore be subject to the same rules as taxi drivers.
Lord Justice Ouseley said: “A taximeter‎, for the purposes of section 11 of the Private Hire Vehicles Act 1998 does not include a device that receives GPS signals in the course of a journey, and forwards GPS data to a server located outside of the vehicle, which server calculates a fare that is partially or wholly determined by reference to distance travelled and time taken and sends the fare information back to the device."
Uber has welcomed the ruling, telling the Guardian: “Now the high court has ruled in favour of new technology, we hope Transport for London will think again on their bureaucratic proposals for apps like Uber.”
TfL is currently carrying out a consultation process on how ride-hailing apps like Uber and Hailo are used in the city. One of the proposals includes the introduction of a mandatory five-minute wait before a driver working for a ride-hailing app can pick up a customer.
London is one of Uber's biggest markets with 18,000 drivers and more than 1 million people living in the city signing up for the service so far. London is just one of the cities around the world where Uber is having issues with regulators as it continues to disrupt the taxi industry.
WASHINGTON/NEW YORK (Reuters) - Federal Reserve policymakers are not as divided as it may appear and are generally operating under the same framework for determining when to raise interest rates, one Fed official said on Thursday, while another said the differences of opinion reflect the countervailing economic data.
Many Fed watchers are exasperated by the mixed messages from the U.S. central bank in recent weeks. Fed Chair Janet Yellen and other officials have said they expect a rate hike will be needed by the end of this year, but two Fed governors this week urged caution.
New York Fed President William Dudley, who repeated his view that a rate hike was likely by year's end, acknowledged the central bank has not communicated well, but he downplayed the differences that existed among officials.
"At the end of the day people are exaggerating" the divisions, Dudley said in response to a question after a panel presentation in Washington on Thursday. "We are all pretty much on the same page."
The Fed surprised half of Wall Street in September by holding rates steady. The central bank was worried by turmoil in global financial markets and the possibility a China-led global economic slowdown could knock the United States off course.
Now investors and economists are confused over what it will take to get the Fed to pull the trigger.
"No one knows what you are doing," said John Taylor, a prominent economist on monetary theory who was on the panel with Dudley. "You can be out there talking all the time and thinking you're being transparent and just confusing things."
In an at-times heated debate at the Washington conference, Dudley said the Fed has made clear it needs to be more confident that inflation will rise toward its 2 percent target before raising rates.
He said it was reasonable for policymakers to come to different conclusions over where the economy is going.
"What's unclear is the economy," Dudley said.
Loretta Mester, president of the Cleveland Fed, said she is not surprised that conflicting views are emerging.
"We try to be as clear as possible about the rationale behind our decisions," she told a New York University audience on Thursday, calling Fed communications "a journey." "Given the cross currents in the economy, different people can have different views ... which is really reflective of what the committee's decision-making is," she said.
Mester, Dudley and the majority of the Fed's 17 policymakers expect to begin raising rates from near zero before year end.
While evidence is mounting that economic growth is cooling in America, Dudley said much of the slowdown appeared to be due to temporary factors. He said a strong dollar was also playing a role but that the economy still seemed to be growing at a healthy clip.
Moreover, falling unemployment will eventually lead to rising prices, Dudley said, adding that he does not need to see price increases to be confident that they will trend higher.
"I see a linkage between pressure on labor market resources and my confidence in inflation," he said.
By David Henry and Sweta Singh
(Reuters) -- Citigroup Inc reported a 51 percent jump in quarterly profit as lower costs more than made up for a fall in revenue amid increased market volatility and uncertainty about the timing of a U.S. interest rate hike.
Legal and related costs of the No.3 U.S. bank by assets nosedived from a year earlier, with the lender putting most of the problems stemming from the financial crisis behind it.
Operating expenses fell 18 percent as Chief Executive Michael Corbat works through his plan to exit businesses where profits and prospects are not worthwhile.
U.S. banks including Citi, JPMorgan Chase & Co and Bank of America Corp are cutting costs to boost earnings as overnight fund rates stay near zero and fixed-income trading, long a source of revenue growth, shows no sign of picking up.
Citi shares rose as much as 4.3 percent on Thursday.
Citi Holdings, "the bad bank" that holds assets marked for sale, saw the biggest plunge in revenue, a steep 32 percent, as assets in the unit shrank 20 percent.
The lender expects to close an additional $31 billion in Citi Holdings' asset sales in the fourth quarter, Corbat said on a conference call.
Revenue decline in Citicorp, Citi's largest unit that holds core businesses, was the smallest at 2 percent.
"It was a relatively straightforward quarter - a positive in our view considering both the complexity of Citi and the volatility experienced globally in the third quarter," Deutsche Bank analyst Matt O'Connor wrote in a note.
Citi's institutional clients group was the only unit to post a rise in revenue, helped by higher private banking and equity market income.
HEADWINDS
Citi is the most international of U.S. banks, with half of its revenue coming from markets outside North America.
The lender's revenue from Asia fell amid slowing economic growth in China.
Revenue from fixed income markets declined about 16 percent to $2.58 billion, reflecting a trend seen in the results of other big U.S. banks.
Goldman Sachs Group Inc, which also reported results on Thursday, said bond trading revenue fell 33 percent.
JPMorgan and BofA also reported a fall in third-quarter revenue this week, hurt by muted trading.
Citi's adjusted return-on-assets rose to 0.91 percent from 0.64 percent, meeting Corbat's target of at least 0.9 percent for the year.
Total revenue fell about 5 percent to $18.69 billion. Net income rose to $4.29 billion from $2.84 billion a year earlier.
Adjusting for some accounting items, profit rose nearly 38 percent to $1.31 per share, beating the average analyst estimate of $1.28 per share, according to Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S.
The results reflect Citi's success in winning approval from the Federal Reserve to buy back stock. The number of shares outstanding fell 2 percent from a year earlier, boosting earnings per share.
Citi will favor stock buybacks over dividends as long as its shares trade below their tangible book value, Corbat said.
Citi's shares were at $52.84 in afternoon trading, well below the stock's tangible book value, which rose to $60.07 in the third quarter from $57.41 a year earlier.
(Reporting by Sweta Singh in Bengaluru and David Henry in New York, additional reporting by Rachel Chitra; Editing by Kirti Pandey)
By Ransdell Pierson and Bill Berkrot
(Reuters) -- Valeant Pharmaceuticals International Inc, already under fire over steep price hikes for two heart drugs, said it had been subpoenaed by U.S. prosecutors seeking details on its patient assistance programs, drug pricing and distribution practices.
U.S.-listed shares of Valeant, which said it would cooperate with the investigations, closed down 4.7 percent at $168.87.
The Canadian company, which was rapped by Democratic lawmakers in late September over those price increases, said late Wednesday it was reviewing subpoenas from the U.S. Attorneys' Offices for the District of Massachusetts and the Southern District of New York.
Valeant tripled the price of its drug Isuprel and raised the price six-fold for another heart drug, Nitropress, after buying them in February. While the magnitude of the price hikes has put Valeant in the political crosshairs, raising drug prices is not illegal in the United States.
The company said it had hired a consultant to review the drugs' pricing and reimbursement. The consultant found "considerable room to increase the price of both drugs," Chief Executive Michael Pearson said in a letter on Wednesday in response to concerns expressed by U.S. Senator Claire McCaskill. He added that Valeant has made substantial investments in manufacturing in the United States.
McCaskill, the top-ranking Democrat on the Senate's Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations, said on Thursday that Pearson's letter failed to answer her questions and that she would press on with her investigation of drug pricing.
Pearson has built Valeant into one of the world's largest drugmakers through numerous acquisitions. His business model has featured price hikes on medicines, while slashing research spending of acquired companies.
'PROFITEERING'
"Many companies charge high prices for drugs, but not many duplicate the Valeant business model," said Erik Gordon, a professor at University of Michigan's Ross School of Business.
Gordon noted that drugmakers' patient assistant programs, a main aspect of the subpoenas, help patients cover co-pays for their medicines, but can sometimes be deemed improper inducement to drive up sales.
Shares of many drugmakers have slumped since Democratic presidential hopeful Hillary Clinton last month proposed ways to prevent industry "profiteering."
Clinton's comments followed reports that Turing Pharmaceuticals had hiked the price of a 62-year-old drug it had acquired by more than 5,000 percent, to $750 a tablet.
The same medicine, to treat a parasitic infection, is sold in Britain by GlaxoSmithKline (GSK.L) for 43 pence (66 cents) a pill.
The United States has no price controls on medicines, though such curbs are common in Europe.
Piper Jaffray analyst Richard Purkiss does not see the Valeant subpoenas as a precursor to a larger industry investigation because of the significant investment in high-risk research made by most large drugmakers and biotechs.
"There is an unwritten social contract where you can have a degree of pricing power, but only if you engage in substantial funding of research as a percentage of your sales. Companies that extract high prices without spending on R&D are in a different space," Purkiss said.
Guggenheim analyst Louise Chen said she believed the federal prosecutors' inquiries are politically motivated, and that a financial settlement within two to three years would be a likely outcome.
"Typically, companies agree to a fine and admit no guilt," she said.
Valeant officials declined to comment beyond the content of the company's statement.
Officials at both prosecutors' offices declined to comment.
Officials with PhRMA, the largest U.S. trade group for pharmaceutical companies, said it could not comment as Valeant was not a member of the organization.
(Additional reporting by Ismail Shakil, Ankur Banerjee and Natalie Grover in Bengaluru and Daniel Wiessner in New York; Editing by Bernadette Baum and Richard Chang)
By Olivia Oran
NEW YORK (Reuters) -- Wall Street bankers and traders are likely to get smaller bonuses for 2015 as trading revenue plunges.
Goldman Sachs said on Thursday that it set aside 16 percent less money for compensation in the third quarter compared with the same period in 2014. The fourth quarter, when banks determine how much they will pay for bonuses, may bring little relief for employees.
Goldman's total trading revenue dropped 15 percent in the third quarter after volume fell in fixed income, currencies, and commodities. Many investors are reluctant to take on too much risk in bonds and related derivatives until they have a better sense of when the U.S. central bank will start raising benchmark interest rates.
Other banks set aside less money for pay in the third quarter as well. JPMorgan Chase & Co said on Tuesday that it had set aside 13 percent less money for compensation in the third quarter compared with the same period last year.
When Morgan Stanley posts third quarter earnings on Monday, Citigroup analyst Keith Horowitz estimates that it will have cut its spending on compensation by 7 percent for the quarter.
Regarding the fourth quarter, JPMorgan CFO Marianne Lake said on Tuesday that "markets are pretty quiet" so far this month. Any declines in revenue may affect what the bank will spend on compensation.
Bonuses across Wall Street could fall about 10 percent this year, with traders taking the biggest hit, said Alan Johnson, managing director of pay consulting firm Johnson Associates.
Investment bankers, meanwhile, will likely see higher pay, as the environment for mergers and acquisitions remains strong. Deal volume in the first three quarters totaled $1.02 trillion, up 11 percent from the same period last year, Thomson Reuters data show. Goldman tops the league tables with 299 deals as of the end of September, generating $2.6 billion in M&A advisory fees so far this year.
FIXED INCOME TRADERS
For fixed income traders, however, "flat is the new up," said Mike Karp, CEO of financial services recruiting firm Options Group. Equities traders may fare better, he added. The weaker trading environment is hurting banks, as are the costs of complying with new rules imposed after the financial crisis.
Banks "are starting to restructure their pay strategy because five or six years after the crisis they have extra costs," Johnson said. Universal banks such as JPMorgan and Citigroup are also under pressure from historically low interest rates, which depress revenue from lending.
In New York City, Wall Street pay has traditionally had an effect on things ranging from the city's budget to the price of real estate and the fortunes of local merchants. At Vintry Fine Wines, located near Goldman's 200 West Street headquarters in Manhattan, manager Mike Martin said business has slowed in the last several weeks.
"I would have to assume that it has to do something with the market," said Martin.
BELT-TIGHTENING
To be sure, not every bank will necessarily cut bonuses by the same amount, and declines can vary dramatically from one employee to another at the same bank. The last two months of the year may end up being pivotal for bonuses and change the amount that banks pay out.
But other signs of belt tightening at banks have already emerged. Contractors in theinvestment banking division at HSBC Holdings Plc in London will see their pay cut by 10 percent amid sluggish deal activity, Reuters reported. JPMorgan has been cutting costs all year, and is even asking some employees to pay for their own cell phones, according to the Wall Street Journal.
Back in the first quarter, revenues were up substantially across Wall Street, allowing banks to set aside more for compensation — Goldman's pay pool rose by 11 percent as revenue rose 14 percent in the first quarter from the same period in 2014.
In the second quarter, revenue slipped by 1 percent and pay fell by 3 percent, leaving compensation expense at the bank down by 1 percent for the first nine months. The first quarter, where revenue was more than 50 percent higher than the third quarter, had an outsized influence on year-to-date figures.
Brian Kleinhanzl, an analyst with KBW, said he believes Goldman needs to cut more expenses to increase earnings in the future, perhaps through cutting headcount. Goldman is reluctant to lay off more staff. Chief Financial Officer Harvey Schwartz said on a conference call with analysts on Thursday that the bank has already cut traders by 10 percent in recent years, and does not want to cut further because it believes markets will become more active.
Rivals are bracing for market revenues to remain disappointing, or at least to be unpredictable. Deutsche Bank is shedding assets, pulling out of countries, and cutting 23,000 jobs in an effort to cut costs. Credit Suisse is planning to scale down its securities business and focus more on wealth management. The bank is in the middle of a strategic review under new Chief Executive Tidjane Thiam.
(Reporting by Olivia Oran in New York; additional reporting by Dan Freed. Editing by Dan Wilchins and John Pickering)
By Lisa Twaronite
TOKYO (Reuters) -- Asian shares got a bright start on Friday, catching some of Wall Street's shine after upbeat U.S. price and jobless claims data calmed some recent concerns about the strength of the U.S. economy.
MSCI's broadest index of Asia-Pacific shares outside Japan was up 0.5 percent in early trading, touching fresh two-month highs and on track for a robust weekly gain of 1.6 of percent.
Japan's Nikkei stock index was up 1 percent, but still poised to shed about 0.9 percent for the week.
Wall Street logged solid gains overnight, after the number of Americans filing new applications for unemployment benefits fell back to a 42-year low last week. That suggested the labor market remained strong even though recent jobs data has sent mixed signals.
Also out overnight, the core consumer price index, which excludes food and energy costs, gained 0.2 percent in September after ticking up 0.1 percent in August, reviving some bets that the U.S. Federal Reserve will deliver its first interest rate hike since 2006 as early as this year.
The U.S. central bank held policy steady last month, and expressed concerns that the slowing global economy, particularly in China, might pose a threat to the U.S. economic outlook.
Rekindled rate-hike expectations lifted the dollar. The dollar index, which gauges the greenback against a basket of six major counterparts, was up 0.2 percent at 94.524, but still on track for a weekly loss of about 0.3 percent.
Still, some investors remained cautious ahead of China's latest economic growth data scheduled to be released on Monday.
Growth in the world's second-largest economy is expected to slow to 6.5 percent in the third quarter, falling below 7 percent for the first time since the global financial crisis.
"China's economy is growing fast - though not as fast as analysts and investors would like - and that is all you need to know," Carl Weinberg, chief economist at High Frequency Economics, said in a note to clients on Friday.
Oil prices took back overnight losses made when the U.S. government reported a larger-than-expected crude stockpile build,
U.S. crude CLc1 was up 1.2 percent at $46.92 a barrel, after shedding 0.6 percent on Thursday. Brent added 0.9 percent to $50.19.
(Reporting by Lisa Twaronite; Editing by Eric Meijer)
A popular children's applesauce product has been recalled over mold. GoGo squeeZ recalled some of its snack packs after mold was discovered in some of its products.
Most of the products were caught before they were sent to stores, the company said. However, some snack packs might have been sent out nationwide. The affected products involve applesauce with a "Best Before Date" of June 30, 2016 to July 26, 2016. 
A production issue allegedly led to the development of some common mold, the company said. The mold allegedly poses no known health risk. The company set up a phone line for questions at 1-844-275-5841. Customers can also visit www.gogosqueez.com/announcement.
"Quality is a responsibility that we take very seriously, and we apologize that this has happened," the company's CEO Michael Larroche said. "We are doing this because we identified an issue in our recent production that led to the development of some common mold (such as that on fruit) in a small number of pouches. An independent lab tested the mold, and an expert microbiologist determined that it poses no known health risk. However, we know mold is gross and unpleasant to look at or taste, and this is simply not the kind of experience we want you to have. As a consequence, we took every step to fully understand and fix the problem. We are completely confident that we are once again meeting our high quality standards."
GoGo squeeZ comes in 12 flavors, including ApplePineapple and AppleCherry. The company claims the product is made with 100 percent real fruit.
 
GoGo squeeZ applesauce under recall after mold found inside some pouches: http://t.co/Y2tHqYQW5t pic.twitter.com/zjL7mjIV8C
&mdash; KLTV 7 (@KLTV7) October 15, 2015

 
GoGo squeeZ had a similar mold problem last year. The mold was discovered after a consumer reported the problem on the company's Facebook page. "Although this kind of reported incident is rare, because GoGo squeeZ fruit pouches are all natural and preservative-free, in instances where the pouch has become damaged, where a small hole or leak in the pouch has occurred, or where the product has otherwise been exposed to air for a prolonged period of time, it is possible for common food mold to develop," the company said at the time. "This type of common food mold is similar to what can be experienced with bread or fruit that has been overly exposed to air."
Some mothers complained that the mold had made their children sick. "I have been giving my girls your pouches and I trusted your product. My girls have been extremely ill to their stomach for two weeks," one woman claimed on Facebook.
 
I bought some Gogo Squeez Fast Fruit for my son at Walmart Florida City, FL and I found mold in them( MOLD). retweet pic.twitter.com/bAMCLhf23A
&mdash; Marie-Carmelle (@DanceaLstudio) August 25, 2013

 
By Richa Naidu and Olivia Oran
(Reuters) -- Goldman Sachs Group Inc's profit plunged 38 percent, its second straight quarterly drop, depressed by a steep decline in bond trading revenue triggered by concern about global growth.
With the exception of investment banking, which benefited from a surge in takeovers, revenue fell in all of the bank's major businesses, from investment management to bond, currency and commodities trading.The results are the latest example of how a grim trading environment, exacerbated in the most recent quarter by worries about the global impact of a Chinese economic slowdown, is gutting Wall Street.
"We experienced lower levels of activity and declining asset prices during the quarter, reflecting renewed concerns about global economic growth," Chief Executive Lloyd Blankfein said in a statement on Thursday.
Goldman said revenue from fixed-income, currency and commodity (FICC) trading, fell 33 percent to $1.46 billion, the biggest year-over-year drop since the third quarter of 2013, when it was squeezed by concern about tighter monetary policy.
JPMorgan Chase & Co, Bank of America Corp and Citigroup Inc also have reported falling revenue from bond trading, but as deposit-taking banks they are less dependent on such income than Goldman.
Both JPMorgan and Bank of America reported 11 percent declines in FICC revenue, while Citi's revenue from the business fell about 16 percent. Arch-rival Morgan Stanley will report results on Monday.
"Investors sit it out in such a market. They don't trade," said Erik Oja, an analyst at S&P Capital IQ. "Unless such a market rout happens again, I would expect fourth-quarter trading revenues at the banks to improve compared to third-quarter."
However, JPMorgan CFO Marianne Lake offered little hope for a quick rebound, saying earlier this week that analyst estimates for the current quarter appeared to be too high in light of slow market trading in the first two weeks of October.
Goldman's shares reversed losses in late day trading and gained 3 percent as the broader market rallied.
The bank said its net income applicable to common shareholders fell 38 percent - to $1.33 billion, or $2.90 per share, from $2.14 billion, or $4.57 per share, a year earlier.
Analysts had expected earnings of $2.91 per share, according to Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S. Net revenue fell 18.2 percent to $6.86 billion, far short of the average estimate of $7.12 billion.
Return on equity fell to 7 percent from 11.8 percent in the same quarter last year - far short of the 30 percent range the bank achieved before the financial crisis.
Many investors argue that banks need at least a 10 percent ROE to cover their cost of capital.
Goldman made no mention of Blankfein's cancer in its results statement or on a later conference call. The long-time CEO said last month he had a "highly curable" form of lymphoma and would be able to work mostly as normal during treatment.
BRIGHT SPOT
Goldman has stressed the bank's commitment to trading, even as other banks have pulled back or exited the business to focus on less-volatile activities that require less capital. New rules aimed at improving banking stability also discourage banks from trading off their own balance sheets.
FICC contributed just 21.3 percent to revenue in the latest quarter, compared with about 40 percent at its peak.
One bright spot was investment banking, where debt underwriting and M&A advisory stood out. Revenue in the unit rose 6.3 percent to $1.56 billion.
The bank led U.S. target M&A advisory work this year with$522.2 billion in deals as of Sept. 18, according to Thomson Reuters data. JP Morgan was second with $460.4 billion.
Revenue from equities trading rose 9 percent to $1.75 billion, matching the performance of JPMorgan, but lagging gains at Citi and Bank of America.
Goldman's equity underwriting revenue more than halved to $190 million, registering its weakest quarter in three years as many firms delayed going public .
U.S. IPO activity this year was down 42 percent as of Oct. 9, according to Thomson Reuters data.
Goldman is ramping up its investment management division, with the hopes of offsetting volatility in its trading arm. The bank grew its total assets slightly to $1.19 trillion, acquired impact investing firm Imprint Capital and launched new products during the quarter including its first-ever exchange traded funds.
Investment management accounted for 21 percent of the company’s revenue during the quarter, up from 17 percent in the year-ago period. Still revenue from the business was down 3 percent at $1.42 billion.
Revenue from Goldman's investing and lending division fell 60 percent from the same quarter a year ago, as the weak stock market took a toll on the bank's equity investments.
The bank spent 16 percent less on employee compensation in the quarter.
Up to Thursday's close of $184.96, Goldman's shares had fallen 4.6 percent since the start of the year, underperforming the S&P 500 index, which lost 1.7 percent.
(Reporting by Richa Naidu and Oliva Oran in New York; Additional reporting by Sruthi Shankar and Rachel Chitra in Bengaluru; Editing by Ted Kerr and Christian Plumb)
WASHINGTON (Reuters) -- The U.S. budget deficit narrowed to $439 billion in fiscal 2015, the lowest level since 2008, as the economy continued to recover from the financial crisis and revenue growth outpaced a rise in spending, the Treasury Department said on Thursday.
The 2015 deficit fell to 2.5 percent of gross domestic product, the lowest since 2007 and less than the average of the last 40 years. Last year's deficit was $483 billion, with a deficit-to-GDP ratio of 2.8 percent. Accounting for calendar adjustments, the 2015 fiscal year deficit was $445 billion.
Fiscal 2015 revenues grew 8 percent to $3.249 trillion, while outlays rose 5 percent to $3.688 trillion.
The shrinking deficit is a marked change from the $1 trillion-plus annual deficits the U.S. government reported from fiscal 2009-2012 when it ramped up spending to deal with the effects of the financial crisis.
Congressional leaders and the White House have been holding closed-door talks on reaching a two-year budget deal. They face a Dec 11. deadline, when current funding for federal agencies expire.
Republicans want the budget negotiations to eliminate strict budget caps on defense programs, while Democrats want to kill the caps for defense and other domestic programs.
Congress also faces an impending debt ceiling deadline. The Treasury said earlier on Thursday that the U.S. government will exhaust its borrowing capacity no later than Nov. 3, two days earlier than its previous estimate.
Raising the debt limit is a controversial issue for conservative Republicans. They want to extract deep reductions in domestic spending over the long term before allowing an increase in government borrowing.
For September, the Treasury recorded a budget surplus of $91 billion, down from a $106 billion surplus a year ago. Analysts polled by Reuters had forecast a $95 billion surplus for last month.
Receipts in September totaled $365 billion, up 4 percent from the same month in 2014, while outlays were up 12 percent to$274 billion.
A Treasury official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, told reporters that receipts last month were dampened by a difference in the composition of business days.
The non-partisan Congressional Budget Office has forecast a $414 billion deficit for fiscal 2016, and continues to warn that increasing federal debt levels are unsustainable over the long term.
(Reporting by Lindsay Dunsmuir; Additional reporting by Rick Cowan and Megan Cassella; Editing by Paul Simao)
By Caroline Valetkevitch
(Reuters) -- A tame inflation reading and strong earnings from Citigroup led investors to pile back into stocks on Thursday, pushing Wall Street to its best level in eight weeks.
Equities added to gains late in the session, and eight of the S&P 500 sectors registered increases of more than 1 percent. More than four stocks rose for every one that fell on both the New York Stock Exchange and the Nasdaq.
The S&P 500 health care index jumped 2.2 percent despite a disappointing forecast from HCA Holdings, which fell 5 percent to $72.21. The Nasdaq Biotech Index jumped 4.4 percent, rallying sharply before the close.
"There's a lot of cash on the sidelines, and we did break through to a new high since the August decline," said Tim Ghriskey, chief investment officer of Solaris Group in Bedford Hills, New York. "Volume picked up as well, which is a strong indicator."
Citigroup rose 4.4 percent to $52.97 after the third-biggest U.S. bank's results beat estimates, while Goldman Sachs was up 3 percent at $184.96, despite weak results.
The financial sector jumped 2.3 percent, recovering from losses on Wednesday, when JPMorgan results disappointed.
U.S. consumer prices declined the most in eight months as gasoline costs fell in September, but a rise in core CPI, which strips out food and energy costs, suggested inflation was starting to firm. Unemployment benefit claims fell in the last week, pointing to a strong labor market.
The data, following a weak retail sales report, added to uncertainty over the timing of an interest rate increase from the Federal Reserve.
The Dow Jones industrial average rose 217 points, or 1.28 percent, to 17,141.75, while the S&P 500 gained 29.62 points, or 1.49 percent, to 2,023.86, its highest level in eight weeks.
The Nasdaq Composite added 87.25 points, or 1.82 percent, to 4,870.10.
Worries about the U.S. earnings outlook had pressured stocks earlier this week.
Also in the healthcare sector, insurer UnitedHealth slipped 1.6 percent to $120.17 even though it reported a slightly better-than-expected profit in the third quarter.
Nike rose 2.3 percent to $128.79. The world's largest sportswear maker said it expects revenue growth to be faster over the next five years.
Netflix slid 8.3 percent to $101.09, a day after the video-streaming service said U.S. subscriber additions came in below expectations for the third quarter. The stock weighed the most on the S&P.
After the bell, shares of Mattel were down 2.4 percent at $22 following its results and guidance.
The S&P 500 posted 11 new 52-week highs and 7 new lows; the Nasdaq recorded 42 new highs and 41 new lows.
About 7.0 billion shares changed hands on U.S. exchanges, below the 7.6 billion daily average for the past 20 trading days, according to Thomson Reuters data.
(Editing by Nick Zieminski and Dan Grebler)
Office rents for the highest floors of London skyscrapers climbed roughly 11 percent in the last six months, and occupancy rates have hit multiyear highs, Bloomberg reported Thursday. Hong Kong, however, remains the priciest city for office space.  
London annual rents surged to $122 a square foot, making it the biggest increase in the period, according to a 20-city index compiled by property broker Knight Frank LLP. Vacancy rates for the British capital have also fallen to their lowest levels since 2001, CNBC reported. London is now the third most-expensive place to rent skyscraper space, tying with Tokyo. 
“Firms in London have put the global financial crisis far behind them, are planning for the future, and are expanding their offices. There is a willingness to pay more to get exclusive accommodation, and this has resulted in greater demand for skyscraper space,” said James Roberts, chief economist at Knight Frank LLP, Bloomberg reported. “A range of companies -- from private-equity firms to oil companies and insurers -- view London as the business location to expand their operations.” 
Hong Kong remained at the top of the list, with offices near the top of the city’s skyscrapers costing $255 per square foot. New York City only grew 2 percent but still ranked second, charging $153 per square foot a year on average. San Francisco was the best-performing U.S. city, reporting an 8.2 percent growth in annual rent prices at $105 per square foot, the biggest surge after London.
 
The priciest place to rent an office? Hint: It&#39;s in Asia » http://t.co/z2zK4HVCIc pic.twitter.com/RKoA9YVdB7
&mdash; CNBC (@CNBC) October 15, 2015

 
A number of high-profile skyscrapers have shot up in London recently that have, "delivered space to the market capable of setting new benchmark levels for rents," according to the report. New towers that popped up last year included the “Walkie-Talkie” and the Leadenhall building, also known as the "Cheesegrater.”  
"Occupier confidence has obviously played a major role in the increase in tower rents achieved across most of the major global cities. However, the main point of interest is that this confidence has coincided with occupiers being more prepared to compete for space that was traditionally outside their preferred locations," said William Beardmore-Gray, Global Head of Office Agency at Knight Frank, CNBC reported.
A week doesn’t go by without someone warning Tesla Motors about an upcoming challenger. But any blogger or auto journalist boldly proclaiming the first “Tesla killer” will soon roll off some assembly line in Finland or China should back away from the click-bait. The simple truth: European electric supercars are too expensive even for most of Tesla’s wealthy, early adopting customers, and Chinese luxury electric cars are, well, Chinese luxury electric cars.
But that doesn’t mean Tesla Motors has the market for long-range luxury electric sedans and SUVs in its pocket. Brush aside little-known electric car company names like NextEV, Evelio and Faraday Future, and you’ll find some solid majors working on luxury car electrification, including Volkswagen AG, BMW and Mercedes-Benz.
Now you can include Volvo Cars in an increasingly loud conversation about future consumer demand for electric cars.
On Thursday, the Chinese-owned Swedish carmaker said it will deliver a fully electric vehicle in 2019 boasting a comfortable 325-mile range per charge. It would be Volvo’s first dip into the market for 100 percent electric transport after unveiling its first gas-electric plug-in SUV, the XC90 T8, which is already on sale in Sweden and is due in other markets by January. The 407-horsepower plug-in SUV can travel about 25 miles on electric power alone.

“We believe that the time has come for electrified cars to cease being a niche technology and enter the mainstream,” Volvo Cars boss Håkan Samuelsson said in a statement Thursday announcing his company’s strategy in the electric car market. By 2018, he says, 1 in 10 of the company’s vehicles will be plug-in hybrids. Volvo sold about 466,000 cars globally last year.
The company sees an awakening of the global electric vehicle market starting in 2020, a “period of critical acceptance” among consumers, it says. The company will soon unleash two more gas-electric plug-in hybrids, the 60-series and the 90-series, using the recently tooled Scalable Platform Architecture, which was designed from the start to accommodate electric powertrains.
It’s all part of Volvo’s efforts to emerge from a lost decade that saw demand for its cars plummet under Ford Motor ownership and a 2010 sale to Chinese automaker Zhejiang Geely Holding. Volvo has been spending $11 billion to replace Ford technology with its own, and the XC90 is the first product of that effort.
Volvo’s announcement came two days after we learned that Volkswagen -- perhaps trying to distract a little from the world’s focus on its emissions-cheating debacle -- is going to turn its flagship Phaeton into a battery-powered high-end luxury sedan and release a pack of gas-electric plug-in hybrids in the coming years.
Right now the field for fully electric luxury cars is wide open, and Tesla is the first company to understand the market. But being first doesn’t necessarily mean being the best. And as more consumers gravitate to the electric car market, they will soon see a lot more options.
When Republican mega donor Sheldon Adelson dropped $5 million on the super PAC supporting Newt Gingrich’s presidential campaign in January 2012, media outlets considered the donation a saving grace. While Adelson eventually switched his allegiance to eventual nominee Mitt Romney, his donations kept Gingrich’s campaign afloat much longer than it otherwise would have been able to afford and caused a bruising fight for Romney early in the primary, despite his front-runner status.
This time around, with a much wider field and no clear favorite contender, a growing number of Republican presidential candidates have been eagerly vying for Adelson's blessing -- and his money. But  reports in recent weeks indicate that Florida Sen. Marco Rubio has been growing closer to Adelson and is likely to get his support in the near future, perhaps even by the end of this month. This could mean a huge influx of cash for Rubio, who has been struggling to build his campaign war chest after rising in popularity thanks to his strong performances in the Republican debates. For Adelson, a Las Vegas casino magnate with a penchant for politics, it could also be a long-awaited chance to influence a presidential contest.
The significance of an endorsement from Adelson goes beyond the funds. Winning a mega donor can be seen as a vote of confidence, which can be nearly as valuable as funding in a primary with so many candidates. Former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush was originally considered the establishment favorite to represent the Republicans in 2016, but he has so far had a lackluster primary season, leaving that slot open for Rubio or someone else to fill. With such a crowded field, many establishment donors have been holding their donations this cycle to see which candidates emerge as serious contenders. 
Many of the Republican candidates generally align with Adelson’s views on the two issues most important to him: support for Israel and free enterprise. Adelson advisers  told the Washington Post that this cycle they are looking to find a candidate who can win the White House after Gingrich (and then Romney) did not pan out in 2012.
“Back in 2012, the competition that Romney faced was actually stronger than what Hillary [Clinton] faces right now,” said Ford O’Connell, a Republican strategist who worked on John McCain’s 2008 presidential campaign. “This time you have four or five people who could actually win. They’re looking around and saying who best represents the issues we care about, but also who can actually win,” O’Connell added of Adelson’s staff.
Despite the recent attention Rubio has received, he sits in fourth place in the polls with an average hovering around 9 percent, according to HuffPost Pollster, and his campaign raised just $6 million during the third fundraising quarter. Rubio's campaign announced Thursday that he is beginning the year’s fourth fundraising quarter with $11 million in hand. Neither Rubio’s campaign nor Adelson responded to a request for comment Thursday. 
Adelson, who grew up in a poor family in Boston, first became wealthy when he and a few partners developed the Las Vegas computer trade show Comdex. Now he is well known for his role as chairman and CEO of the Las Vegas Sands Corporation, which owns the Sands Hotel and Casino and operates and develops other properties in the United States, Singapore and Macao. He is No. 15 on the  Forbes 400 list of billionaires, and the magazine values him at $27 billion.
His family has Ukrainian Jewish ancestry, and Adelson is a  big supporter of Israel and of its current Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu. In addition to his political influence in the states, the mogul also spends significant amounts of money on Israeli politics. He even founded an Israeli newspaper called  Israel Hayom, a free daily known for printing news supportive of Netanyahu and critical of his enemies.
These leanings mean that Adelson cares a lot about U.S. foreign policy, and particularly its dealings with countries like Iran and Syria that can affect the stability in the Middle East. He has also been clear on his support for free trade policies, which makes sense since much of his company’s money is earned overseas. These positions are ones that many Republican presidential contenders would find easy to support, which may be part of the reason so many have courted Adelson this cycle.
Republican front-runner Donald Trump, however,  has criticized Rubio for wooing Adelson, calling the Florida senator a “perfect little puppet.”
 
Sheldon Adelson is looking to give big dollars to Rubio because he feels he can mold him into his perfect little puppet. I agree!
&mdash; Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) October 13, 2015
 

However, while the topics of Israel, Iran and trade have all come up during the 2016 presidential election, Rubio will not be stretching his own ideas if he agrees with most views held by Adelson. “Marco Rubio’s way into the nomination was always foreign policy, specifically on Israel,” and now also on economic growth, O’Connell said.
Rubio, like almost all other Republicans, vehemently opposed President Barack Obama’s  nuclear deal with Iran -- which seeks to lift sanctions on the country in exchange for limiting some aspects of its nuclear abilities -- and has been supportive of Israel on many  other issues as well. When lawmakers threatened to boycott Netanyahu’s congressional speech earlier this year, Rubio  spoke out on the House floor, saying that Israel is the United States’ strongest ally in the Middle East. “Don’t do this to them [Israel],” he said.
Another area where Rubio has been favorable to interests Adelson would like is on the Trans-Pacific Partnership. He voted to fast-track the legislation over the summer and has  generally been positive on the deal, which would eliminate thousands of tariffs and ease overseas trade.
Republican presidential candidate, Sen. Marco Rubio speaks at Civic Hall about the "sharing economy" Oct. 6 in New York City. Rubio is said to be courting the support of casino mogul Sheldon Adelson. Photo: Spencer Platt/Getty Images
It's unclear if Rubio's politics will be enough to win over Adelson, who has given millions to various Republican congressional candidates over the years. The 2012 presidential campaign was his first major entry into the presidential cycle. It was also the first national election after the Citizens United court decision that allowed unlimited political expenditures from nonprofit corporations. The campaign season saw Adelson and his wife spend around $100 million on Republican candidates, becoming the  largest individual donors to outside funding groups.
But with Rubio, Adelson might be able to win himself a new title in 2016: The man who decided the presidential election.
California’s brutal drought will press on into 2016, despite signs that a powerful El Niño this winter will bring higher-than-normal rainfall to parts of the state. The Central Valley and other major food-growing regions aren’t expected to bounce back soon from an enduring water deficit that has so far cost the state’s agricultural sector billions of dollars and thousands of jobs.
The warm El Niño phenomenon forming in the Pacific Ocean could be among the top three strongest events since 1950, Mike Halpert, deputy director of NOAA’s Climate Prediction Center, told reporters Thursday. The pattern could lead to wetter-than-average conditions across the southern half of the lower 48 states, from Southern California through Texas, Florida and up into the Northeast. Much of the West and northern half of the U.S. could see above-average temperatures, while southern Plains states and the Southeast could see a cooler-than-normal winter.
El Niño conditions could provide some relief in central and Southern California by the end of January, but rains won't be enough to propel it out of drought. Almost half the Golden State is experiencing exceptional drought levels -- the worst of five drought classifications -- while the other half is seeing at least some degree of drought. Farmers are watching their crops shrivel and livestock suffer as water costs soar and supplies disappear. California’s economy is expected to lose a combined $4.9 billion in output and economic activity in 2014 and 2015, of which $3.34 billion, or nearly 70 percent, comes from the agricultural sector, according to researchers at the University of California, Davis.
Precipitation -- U.S. Winter Outlook: 2015-16  Photo: National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
Temperature - U.S. Winter Outlook: 2015-2016  Photo: National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
In the Central Valley region, the cumulative precipitation deficit from years of drought is equal to nearly three times the average annual precipitation, Alan Haynes, a hydrologist with NOAA’s California Nevada River Forecast Center, said on the Thursday call. He noted that California’s key reservoirs are well below half their normal average capacity for this time of year, while groundwater supplies are significantly stressed.
“Even if the wettest year on record were to occur, it still wouldn’t erase the deficit that’s occurred over the last four years,” he said.
Above-average rains brought by El Niño might not all come as a relief: Flash floods and landslides are all common during El Niño years. Still, the extra rain might help stave off another natural threat, wildfires. California has seen a series of destructive blazes this summer as drought and climate change turn the state into a hot, dry tinder box.
During an El Niño, warm equatorial waters that pool near Asia and Australia are propelled toward the Americas by shifting winds and currents. The west-to-east commotion has the effect of raising the ocean’s overall surface temperature, which in turn can elevate air temperatures and alter precipitation patterns. Often in an El Niño, the water ocean water flings more moisture into the air, increasing the potential of heavy or replenishing rains. (La Niña is the opposite phenomenon, characterized by unusually cold Pacific temperatures and dry conditions on the West Coast.)
Other factors, including the Arctic Oscillation and the Madden-Julian Oscillation, can influence temperatures and precipitation levels during winter months.
The Huffington Post has seen a major decline in its monthly traffic coming from within the U.S. over the past year, while competitors such as BuzzFeed and Vice Media continue to grow, according to data provided by comScore to International Business Times. In September of last year, HuffPost pulled in around 113 million unique visitors and hit 126 million last November, but then steadily bled visitors into 2015 and throughout the year. Last month, it was down to 86 million.
Meanwhile, its biggest rivals in digital media, from BuzzFeed to Vice to Business Insider, have all seen growth over the same period. According to comScore, Business Insider rose from around 30 million to 41 million, while Vice Media blew up from around 10 million to 23 million.
BuzzFeed fluctuated from month to month but has continued to grow steadily, hitting 68 million in August 2014 and 85 million a year later, while Vox Media has enjoyed a slow but steady gain from the high 40s to the low 50s.
Gawker Media is the only other shop that, like HuffPost, is losing traction; comScore says last month’s traffic of 51 million is below last September’s showing of 53 million. As a leaked memo from executive editor John Cook admitted last week: “Traffic is flat.”
The Huffington Post provided a statement to IBT: “These are U.S. numbers, and our focus over the last year and into the future is global, video and distributed content. In pursuit of this strategy, we have been in the process of decoupling our traffic from AOL.com. We are very committed to our new strategy so we can continue leading in this new era of digital, global media, and go where the audiences are shifting to while developing new metrics to capture those audiences.”
A representative also told IBT that more than 50 percent of Huffington Post’s traffic comes outside the United States.
‘What’s Working’ Isn’t
The past two years taken together show that HuffPost’s domestic numbers initially surged from September 2013, which saw 73 million uniques, up until around January of this year, when traffic began to fall from the triple digits back down to 85 million to 90 million.
A mixture of factors could have led to both the boom and the dip, from HuffPost’s internal editorial and distribution strategy to the challenges in measuring audience numbers from mobile devices, which account for a growing share of traffic across the Internet. The site has traffic-boosting syndication deals with sites like Yahoo and its parent company, AOL (now owned by Verizon). But HuffPost told IBT that since January 2014, the company has voluntarily weaned itself off of AOL's front page in order to focus on cultivating a self-sufficient audience through social media and new distributive deals with services like Facebook, Apple News, Google and Twitter.
In February, the first month that traffic began to slide, Huffington  rolled out a strategy called “What’s Working,” an editorial campaign to publish and promote positive stories. The initiative promised both a cheery contribution to society and a traffic boost for the site, based on a  study that showed New York Times readers are more likely to share uplifting stories than daily doom and gloom.
“It turns out that, contrary to the thinking behind ‘If it bleeds, it leads,’ people want more constructive and optimistic stories,” Huffington wrote. “As the No. 1 social publisher on Facebook, we've learned these are the stories our readers are most interested in reading and sharing.”
If the downward traffic data is any indication, “What’s Working” is not living up to its name. Either people are sharing the feel-good stories without actually clicking through to the site, or HuffPost’s general theory of traffic-through-positivity did not pan out.
“Breaking news is usually negative, and it drives the most traffic, more than any other form,” said Margarita Noriega, currently an editor at Vox and formerly editor in charge of live news at Reuters.
Still, HuffPost’s feel-good vertical, literally titled “Good News,” has around 1.2 million “Likes” on Facebook, putting it in the same ballpark as other popular verticals such as Politics, Business and Women.
Noriega suggested looking at Buzzsumo.com for HuffPost’s most-shared posts over social media services like Facebook: In most cases, it’s tough to categorize a story as either “constructive and optimistic” or otherwise. Over the six months, the most-shared stories are a mixed bag: “  Hawaii Just Became The First State To Ban Plastic Bags At Grocery Checkouts,” “21 Books From The Last 5 Years That Every Woman Should Read,” “Bernie Sanders Has Overtaken Hillary Clinton In the Hearts and Minds of Democrats,” and “10 Signs You're Being Raised By A Nurse.”
The U.S. Food and Drug Administration was “lax” and “permissive” in its approval of a widely prescribed blood thinner known as Pradaxa, according to an independent investigation of the agency’s review process. The analysis suggests the FDA rubber-stamped the drug on the basis of a single poorly designed clinical trial that overlooked safety concerns.
The investigation, conducted by the nonpartisan Project on Government Oversight (POGO), concludes that in the agency’s dealings with Pradaxa’s maker Boehringer Ingelheim it deferred its own concerns about proper trial design and safety labeling to the company’s wishes. Those findings and others were presented in a report released Thursday that highlights flaws at virtually every stage of the FDA’s approval process for Pradaxa. The nonprofit watchdog organization says the agency practiced poor oversight and supported inadequate marketing claims for the medicine.
POGO’s damning report comes at a time when Congress is considering the 21st Century Cures Act, a measure that would hasten the FDA’s drug approval process and increase the agency’s workload. POGO says the case of Pradaxa is a “cautionary tale” for the proposed legislation. The Senate will vote on the bill sometime this fall but faces pushback from critics that say it will lead to a flood of new treatments that are not properly vetted. The act introduces flexible forms of clinical trial design that some have argued are too subjective. The FDA’s Science Board has also pointed out that it gives the agency far more work without a sufficient increase in budget.
“We're concerned that it will open doors for things to be made worse rather than better,” Danielle Brian, executive director of POGO, says. “It really looks to us like it's been written by the drug industry. We hope this report will help educate Congress that this is not the way to go.”
Unstoppable Bleeding
Long before the debate over the Cures Act, the FDA approved Pradaxa in 2010 to prevent blood clots and strokes in patients with atrial fibrillation, which affects between 2.7 million and 6.1 million Americans. Pradaxa had one main advantage over an existing generic competitor called warfarin. Patients on warfarin were supposed to undergo blood tests to ensure that their blood did not become too thick or too thin while on the medicine. Pradaxa required no such tests.
However, there was also a deadly drawback. There is no antidote for Pradaxa that physicians could use to immediately re-thicken a patient’s blood in the case of an emergency. The thinning effects of warfarin can quickly be reversed with a shot of vitamin K but if a patient begins bleeding profusely while on Pradaxa, physicians have no way to stop it.
The POGO report opens with the story of an 81-year-old retired social worker named Sidney Denham who began bleeding profusely from his urinary tract while taking the medicine several weeks after undergoing prostate surgery. When he couldn‘t be replenished with his own blood quickly enough, the doctor who later filled out his death report listed an “uncontrollable hemorrhage from Pradaxa” as a contributing cause.
Dr. Bryan Cotton has witnessed this in his own patients at the University of Texas Medical Center in Houston, Texas. Since Pradaxa’s approval, Cotton estimates that about 25 patients have come to the emergency room with uncontrollable bleeding following an injury while on the drug. He wrote up his observations and published them in the New England Journal of Medicine in 2011.
“I'll tell you my first experience with it as a trauma surgeon was seeing these patients come in that were bleeding that we couldn't fix,” he says. “The most frustrating thing is going out and telling the family that the patient died or that they're bleeding uncontrollably. None of these patients know that the drug is irreversible.”
Warfarin is a common blood thinner that is a rival to Pradaxa. However, an antidote exists for Warfarin but no such remedy has been approved for Pradaxa.  Photo: Wikimedia Commons
Boehringer Ingelheim is now seeking approval for an antidote, five years after the drug was first approved. Despite that omission, the drug was an immediate success -- sales reached $1.4 billion by 2012 and by 2014, around 935,000 people had received a prescription for it.
However, patients soon began to file complaints about spontaneous or uncontrollable bleeding that they suspected occurred as a result of the drug. POGO says that Pradaxa was cited more than any other drug in adverse event reports submitted to the FDA in both 2011 and 2012, which are sent by patients or physicians to alert the agency to a side effect from a drug that is already on the market. In addition, Boehringer Ingelheim settled 4,000 claims related to Pradaxa for $650 million in May 2014.
The FDA has maintained that the drug does reduce patients’ risk of stroke and that this benefit outweighs any additional risks. Last year, the agency published an update on the drug’s safety from ongoing studies conducted in Medicare patients that showed the medicine reduces risk of stroke and death compared with warfarin but heightens patients’ risk of gastrointestinal bleeding.
“As we’ve previously noted, Pradaxa provides an important health benefit when used as directed,” Sandy Walsh, an FDA press officer, says.
Re-Examining Pradaxa
As part of POGO's investigation, eight of the organization's employees sorted through thousands of pages of files obtained through court cases and open records requests over the span of two years to trace the trajectory of the drug’s approval in light of those claims. The group’s work shows that Pradaxa was approved on the merits of a single clinical trial that was not blinded, which means that researchers knew which patients were taking Pradaxa versus warfarin. An FDA review cited in the report found that researchers even removed patients who were on Pradaxa from the clinical trial if they suffered early side effects that may have turned more serious, thus skewing results in favor of the new drug.
Though the FDA originally urged Boehringer Ingelheim to use a blinded trial, the agency accepted the company’s unblinded results. “The FDA has to stick to their guns,” Brian says. “The FDA needs to have more strength in their convictions, that they're not going to lower their standards and accept pressure just because the industry wants them to do it.”
The original trial was riddled with problems. Boehringer Ingelheim did not define what success would mean until after the trial was completed. Typically, companies must settle these terms before a trial begins to ensure that they do not set them in a way that makes a drug look better than it actually is. But the Statistical Analysis Plan for Pradaxa was finalized on May 8, 2009, which is two months after the trial ended.
Praxada was approved by the FDA in 2010 to prevent strokes and blood clots in patients with atrial fibrillation.  Photo: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
Furthermore, an FDA review found that the manner in which the trial was conducted did appear to improve the performance of Pradaxa over warfarin. Patients on warfarin were not regularly tested to ensure that their blood remained within the recommended range of thickness. Because of this oversight, those patients on warfarin may have performed worse than real-world patients who took the drug and were properly monitored.
Due to such biases, POGO calls the clinical trial process for Pradaxa “a sausage factory.” Lauren Murphy, a spokeswoman with Boehringer Ingelheim which is based in Ingelheim, Germany, provided a statement that says the company discussed their clinical trial design with POGO in 2013. “We found the article to be biased and misleading for patients and providers. The points raised have been previously addressed publicly and found to be baseless,” the company says.
A Shaky Redaction
Another set of documents suggested the agency bowed to the company’s wish to make advertising claims that Pradaxa was superior to warfarin. In the trial, 3.4 percent of patients on warfarin suffered a stroke compared with 2.2 percent on Pradaxa, but flaws in trial design gave Pradaxa a clear advantage.
At least one FDA leader insisted that a superiority claim was inappropriate due to these flaws and would lead patients on warfarin to believe that they should switch to Pradaxa when it wasn’t clear that they would benefit from doing so. However, his statement was hidden from public view until the POGO report was released.
In 2010, Ellis Unger, the deputy director of the Office of New Drugs at the time, posted a memo to the FDA’s website explaining the agency’s rationale for approving Pradaxa, which is also known by its scientific name dabigatran. The FDA originally redacted a portion of Unger’s statement and said the redaction was intended to protect trade secrets. But the deleted section of Unger’s memo, obtained by POGO, appears to have little to do with trade secrets. Instead, it casts into question the FDA’s decision to eventually allow Boehringer Ingelheim to make superiority claims for Pradaxa.
The redacted section of Unger’s memo reads, “It is important, therefore, not to provide dabigatran with a superiority claim to warfarin, because it would imply that even those well-treated with warfarin should be switched to dabigatran. Clearly, that is not the case.”
Internal emails obtained from Boehringer Ingelheim also show that at least two company scientists who called for establishing a “therapeutic range” within which Pradaxa would be most effective were silenced by concerns that doing so would compromise its ability to compete with warfarin. The creation of such a range would require patients to be regularly tested, and thus erase the drug’s primary competitive advantage.  
Boehringer Ingelheim disputes these claims and the implication that warfarin may be just as good or better for some patients than Pradaxa. “Patient care and the evaluation of medicines are best left in the hands of medical experts. The article is irresponsible as it places in danger patients who may erroneously change their medication or behavior without speaking to a healthcare professional,” the company says. “We take offense to anyone or any organization who would question our integrity. ”
To Cotton, the FDA’s willingness to approve a blood thinner without an antidote represents a gross miscalculation. He is similarly offended by the fact that so few primary care physicians seem to inform their patients about the risks of Pradaxa.
“I am frustrated but I am still a little bit in the dark as to how the hell it happened,” he says. “I just know the real-world consequences of having a blood thinner without an antidote. It just freaks me out.”
Goldman Sachs dealt investors a disappointing hand Thursday, with quarterly profits down 36 percent from a year ago. The bank’s lackluster showing comes as the nation’s largest lenders reported slumping trading volumes amid global market instability. Yet despite falling revenues, particularly in bond, currency and commodities trading, some major lenders managed to post higher profits.
In addition to Goldman, revenues came in lower year-over-year at Bank of America, JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Citigroup, each of which saw trading revenue down from the year before. But the latter three still eked out profit gains, due to cost cuts and drops in legal costs.
The summer’s wild market moves played a central role in this week’s earnings news. Perhaps the most dramatic indication of market troubles rubbing off on banks was a sharp decline in revenue at Goldman Sachs’ Investment and Lending division, a catch-all unit containing a mix of debt and equity. Revenue in the unit fell 60 percent from the third quarter a year before.
On a call, Goldman finance officer Harvey Schwartz called the July-Sept. period “a much tougher quarter” for trading. The bank missed analysts’ expectations with earnings per share of $2.90, below the predicted $2.91. Still, Goldman stock was up 1 percent on a day that saw the financial sector rebounding from Wednesday's declines.
Although investment bankers often lick their lips during periods of high volatility, lurching markets in August and September kept many investors on the sidelines, drying up trading revenues. Continued uncertainty over the timing of the Federal Reserve’s interest rate liftoff added to the unease.
The only major bank to buck the falling revenues trend was Wells Fargo, whose retail-banking focus limited the firm’s exposure to market gyrations. Although mortgage origination fell behind, Wells Fargo’s lending profits rose 1.7 percent to $10.8 billion.
“Wells Fargo continues to be a consistent performer,” said Allen Tischler, an analyst with Moody’s. “In challenging environment they continued to report stable, slightly positive trends.”
One major headwind for Wells Fargo and others is the Federal Reserve’s ongoing reluctance to rise interest rates from the near-zero nadir they have maintained for the last seven years. Lenders are itching for the higher interest margins that come with a Fed liftoff. The odds of a rate rise occurring in 2015 appear to be narrowing.
To combat falling revenues, banks have tightened their belts. Bank of America reported shuttering 206 branches in the past year, while Citigroup said it did away with nearly 300.
Meanwhile, Goldman Sachs cut its bonus pool by 16 percent from a year ago, even as the employee count notched up 10 percent. JPMorgan slid a big tax one-time tax benefit into its earnings for the quarter. Excluding one-off items, the nation’s largest lender posted a $1.32 earnings per share on $6.8 billion in net profits, below analyst expectations.
Despite slumping midweek, financial stocks were up Thursday. Citigroup led the pack, up 3.15 percent Thursday at noon, despite a 7 percent drop in trading revenue.
Nan Chung and his wife knew it was time to start looking for their first home when they ran out of space in the two-bedroom, 900-square-foot Seattle apartment they were renting for $1,500 a month. Low interest rates made the decision even easier, as did the realization that they could get a 1,700-square-foot, three-bedroom, two-bath home for roughly the same monthly payment that they were shelling out for their tiny apartment.
Add the lure of home equity accumulation to the equation, and the Chungs were sold on the idea of owning a home. They waited until they'd saved 20 percent for a down payment to avoid the additional monthly expense of private mortgage insurance. They jumped into a seller’s market earlier this year where offers of up to 25 percent higher than asking prices were commonplace.
“It was super competitive,” says Chung, 30, “but it was either buy now or start paying $2,000+ for a three-bedroom apartment. Buying versus renting was a no-brainer for us.”
In their new single-family home, where they've been since mid-2015, Chung says he and his wife are happy with their decision and have no regrets about jumping into the housing market.
“It worked out very well for us,” he says. “Life is great.”
New Wave of Homebuyers
The Chungs are no anomaly. Even as overall homeownership hovers at a near two-decade low, millennials represented the largest share of home buyers in 2014, according to the most recent National Association of Realtors Home Buyer and Seller Generational Trends study. Researchers found that the largest group of recent buyers were 35 and younger. The cohort made up 32 percent of all buyers (versus 31 percent in 2013) and represented more than double the number of younger baby boomer (ages 50-59) and older baby boomer (60-68) buyers (at 31 percent).  
Tim Lucas, author of "The Complete Home Buying Guide for Gen X and Millennials" and editor of MyMortgageInsider.com, says there are several reasons young adults opt to buy their own condominiums, townhouses and single-family homes. With interest rates low, anyone with a good credit score who plans to work and live in the same area for the foreseeable future will likely pay less for housing as an owner. And while it’s important to factor property taxes and homeowner’s insurance into the budget, both expenses are tax deductions.
“If you’re getting killed on taxes, buying a home is a good way to help alleviate some of that strain,” says Allen Wyde, team lead and broker-in-charge at Redfin, a real estate brokerage in Raleigh-Durham, North Carolina. “I hear this complaint a lot from millennials who don’t have enough write-offs and wind up with very big tax bills. Buying a home is one way out of this problem.”
Before you give your landlord notice or start your house hunt, you’ll want to figure out just how much home you can afford – including housing payments or “principal,” property taxes, homeowners insurance, homeowners association fees (HOA), and other housing-related costs (such as private mortgage insurance for buyers whose down payments are lower than 20 percent of the property’s value).
When making loans, lenders look at how much of your monthly income goes toward debt payments, or your “debt-to-income ratio.” If a married couple earns $10,000 per month, for example, and has total debt payments of $3,000 per month, they have a debt-to-income ratio of 30 percent. As a rule of thumb, monthly housing payment (including principal, interest, taxes and insurance) should be 28 percent or less (before taxes). This specific debt-to-income ratio is known as the “front-end ratio.”
Lenders also calculate the "back-end ratio," which covers everything else you have to pay on a regular basis, including debt commitments on car loans, student loans, minimum credit card payments, and your housing payment. “Lenders prefer a back-end ratio of 36 percent or less,” Bankrate.com reports in "How Much House Can You Buy?"
When deciding whether now is the time to buy, first-time home buyers can use these ratios to determine if they’re paying too much in rent, and if they’d be better off owning. If, for example, the married couple mentioned above suddenly found itself paying $4,000 a month for housing due to a rent increase, then its debt-to-income ratio of 40 percent would far exceed the desired 28 percent level. Chung did a similar calculation while still renting and realized buying was clearly the better choice financially.
When the Stars Align
Even when you're young, communal living can lose its charm. Paying off your landlord’s mortgage is equally tiring, as is not being able to renovate or remodel your personal living space. When these and other issues collide, it may be time to start looking for your own condo or single-family home.
“Older millennials are getting settled in life and realizing that their rent is basically just being thrown out the window every month,” says Ogden P. Starr, an associate real estate broker at Brown Harris Stevens in New York.
Starr says the ability to build equity in a piece of real estate is a big draw for millennials, as is the chance to remodel the space to their individual liking and preference – something they can’t always do as renters.
“Owners go from handing over a rent check every month to owning something that they can live in and benefit from financially,” says Starr. “Once they see that, the light bulb goes on and the ‘buy versus rent’ argument becomes pretty strong.”
Other signs that it could be time to buy include the availability of spare income (to cover payments and unforeseen repairs), a significant other who is “on board” with buying a home (“without any arm twisting,” says Lucas), and the need for larger space to accommodate a new or growing family.
Finally, Lucas says homeownership is particularly attractive for millennials who are tired of dealing with rent increases and the random whims of their landlords.
“You’re basically locking in your housing payment for 30 years – something you can’t do when you’re renting,” says Lucas. “That level of long-term financial security is probably the No. 1 reason anyone who is ‘on the fence’ gets in and gives it a shot.”
For help with the numbers, check out these online mortgage calculators:
Bankrate.com: How Much House Can I Afford?
http://www.bankrate.com/calculators/mortgages/new-house-calculator.aspx
Zillow: Home Affordability Calculator
http://www.zillow.com/mortgage-calculator/house-affordability/
National Association of Realtors: Affordability Calculator
http://www.realtor.com/mortgage/tools/affordability-calculator/
SHANGHAI -- The story that got Wang Xiaolu arrested appears to have checked out on the facts. In July, as shares on China’s stock markets plunged, sowing global panic, the veteran financial writer reported that the authorities were considering pulling back from propping up share prices.
But as China’s government intensifies controls on the media, journalists are increasingly discovering that accuracy provides no defense against the wrath of the people in charge. Wang -- a writer for the respected publication Caijing -- was detained and paraded on national TV, where he confessed to publishing “private information obtained through inappropriate channels”, and apologized for “bringing big losses to the nation and investors.”
Two months later, that spectacle appears to have delivered its intended result, sowing alarm among China’s financial journalists and prompting many to avoid reporting on subjects that had previously been seen as fair game, several writers told the International Business Times.
“This is a big change,” said one young financial journalist, who spoke on condition he not be named lest he jeopardize his job. “In the past we always felt that being a financial journalist was the safest job. If you wrote about legal issues, it could be dangerous, a lot of journalists got arrested, but finance and economy seemed to be relatively safer topics. But this case shows us that writing about this area isn’t safe. It will lead to more self-censorship.”
While journalists landing in trouble for breaching the party line is hardly new in China, Wang’s case has resonated as an indication that that line itself has shifted: Now, even financial and economic news constitute potential danger zones, alongside coverage on human rights and the wielding of Communist Party power. This represents a shift whose ramifications could be felt far beyond China, as anxious investors seek to understand the scope and consequences of the slowdown in the world’s second-largest economy.
'If "privately gathering information" and then adding "subjective judgment" sounds a lot like good journalism,it is.' http://t.co/voFC6XzXfo
— Stefan Geens (@stefangeens) August 31, 2015
In the decades since China began embracing market reforms -- constructing stock markets, courting foreign investment, and tying its fortunes to the vagaries of global trade -- a loose understanding took root within the growing ranks of China’s journalists: Stories that challenged the dictates of the ruling Communist Party courted danger, but those digging into the operations of companies and financial markets were generally safe. Such coverage appeared to have the tacit approval of a government that recognized that reliable information was a necessary commodity in an age increasingly influenced by markets.
Among Chinese journalists and market-watchers, the Wang case has been absorbed as a sign that the terms of that understanding have been redrawn, prompting writers and editors to pull back on their coverage of China’s markets. Some suggest that a frightened financial press could undermine the flow and quality of information, just as China’s markets and financial sector are becoming more connected to the outside world.
More broadly, Wang’s public shaming is being taken as another sign among many that the party may be reconsidering its commitments to greater market forces as it grapples with a slowing economy.
China expected to post weakest quarter of economic growth since 2009 financial crisis: http://t.co/grvVMObGfX pic.twitter.com/Agg3ipqwcf
— CNN International (@cnni) October 14, 2015
“China still has a serious shortage of good business journalism,” said Lifen Zhang, former editor of the Financial Times website FTChinese.com, and a veteran Chinese media watcher. “And now it’s becoming more politically sensitive. I believe a reduction in scrutiny of markets and economic activities by the business media would weaken China's economic reform and its potential to achieve quality growth and market openness.”
Some Chinese media insiders have speculated that Wang’s detention was the result of a power struggle between government departments. But David Bandurski, of the China Media Project at Hong Kong University, said his arrest appears to have been specifically designed to send a warning to journalists to exercise caution in their coverage of the markets. The fact that Wang confessed to having obtained information through “inappropriate channels”, and to having negatively impacted the market “at such a sensitive time,” shows that his detention was “not about facts, but about sensitivity,” he argues.
“We can be quite certain this is a political move,” Bandurski said, noting that the market actually “rallied for several days” immediately after Wang’s report was published. “If journalists make a mistake, the proper correction comes through openness of information and reporting. Such public confessions are a dark legacy of Maoist China that has made a recent comeback under Xi Jinping. This will hang heavily around the neck of China's financial press.”
It’s no coincidence that the case followed a period when China’s financial media had been “relatively transparent in their reporting of the government’s ham-fisted attempts to prop up the stock market, giving the outside world a negative impression,” added Willy Lam, a specialist on Chinese politics at the Chinese University of Hong Kong. “This is a classic case of shooting the messenger. Perhaps Wang and his colleagues jumped the gun a little bit, they didn’t wait for approval to report the story -- but essentially it was right. By the end of July the authorities did decide not to directly inject money into the stock market. So it was good reporting, they had a scoop.”
Wang’s employer, Caijing magazine – one of China’s first commercially-funded media publications, which led the way in pushing for a more open financial media in the late 1990s – stood by its reporter, issuing a statement that said it would always “support in depth accurate and objective reports,” and, unusually for such a case in China, the original story remains on itswebsite.
But the Chinese authorities, Lam said, weighed down with a triumvirate of economic turmoil -- stock market volatility, foreign alarm at the devaluation of its currency and a slowdown in growth -- are determined to convey an “impression of unity.” The government is intensifying what Lam says has already been a “tougher line on the media” under President Xi Jinping than his immediate predecessors.
On one level, it seems to be working. Wang’s detention has been accompanied by more cautious reporting of the stock markets in the Chinese media. And the government has also issued directives calling for positive reporting on the country’s economy, which has seen sharp falls in exports and imports in recent months.
The result? When China’s stock markets plunged 8.5 percent in a day in late August, the news made headlines around the world – but did not appear on many Chinese front pages. (A revival of 1.5 percent a few days later, however, was headlined by one Shanghai media outlet as a “crazy rise” – prompting some skepticism from readers in its comments section.) 
“We know now that we have to be more cautious in reporting the markets,” one experienced Chinese media professional told IBT. “We’ve always had to deal with rules – but it was a shock to see Wang Xiaolu on TV confessing like that.”
Chinese imports slump 18pc as slowdown worries return http://t.co/Z2VAlP516x pic.twitter.com/mqBh0jOffG
— Telegraph News (@TelegraphNews) October 13, 2015
And it’s a shock that's not only alarming current professionals, but could also “stop some young people becoming journalists,” said the young financial reporter, who has witnessed many young Chinese media students who are more tempted to go into public relations and marketing than face the pressures of working as a journalist.
A drying up of idealistic young journalists would only add to the Chinese media’s current problems. Even before Wang Xiaolu’s arrest, several other cases had already sent a chill through the profession: two years ago Chen Yongzhou, a reporter from a popular newspaper in southern China appeared on TV confessing to having taken bribes from a company to write negative stories about its rival – and was eventually jailed for a year and ten months. And last year Shen Hao, a well-known journalist seen as a pioneer of financial reporting in China, was arrested for corruption at independent business publication 21st Century Business Herald – he and some 30 other journalists were formally charged in August.
While corruption is acknowledged by journalists to be a problem in sections of China’s financial media, legal specialists also raised concerns about the treatment of those arrested in these cases, and many saw them as designed to warn journalists off bold reporting. 
An investor walks past an electronic board showing stock information at a brokerage house in Nanjing, Jiangsu province, China, Sept. 22, 2015. Photo: Reuters/Stringer  Combined with growing financial pressures, as traditional media have been hit by the increasing challenge of the internet and social media, many experienced journalists have been quitting the profession to go into business or PR, the financial reporter said. These trends, he added, have already damaged the quality of journalism in China’s more market-oriented media. A case in point is the Southern Weekly, the Guangzhou-based newspaper that established the idea of investigative journalism in China, and won national popularity with its exposes of local corruption around the country in the 1990s. Editors were frequently sacked, but  somehow the paper always bounced back.
Now, however, the Southern Weekly has been placed under tight control by the local propaganda bureau, following a case two years ago when its staff used social media to reveal that censors had spiked an editorial calling for greater freedom of speech. This resulted in a public protest in support of the paper outside its office – something that greatly alarmed the authorities. As a result of the new controls, “so many of the sharpest journalists have left, and it’s not so influential anymore,” the reporter said. “It’s very sad.”
Equally worrying, he added, is the fact that many other media “don’t have in-depth special features departments anymore. There are just lots of young reporters writing short stories.” He pointed to the huge explosion at a chemical warehouse in the northern city of Tianjin in August, which killed 173 people. While some journalists rushed to the scene, and initially tried to get to the bottom of whether corruption or official negligence were to blame, attention was soon diverted elsewhere. 
“There are fewer and fewer people who really want to dig into these kind of stories. Five or ten years ago I believe all media outlets would have stayed in Tianjin [to investigate] for a long time. Even if they’d told us not to, people would have found a way to do it anyway.”
People's Liberation Army (PLA) soldiers of the anti-chemical warfare corps in protection suits work next to excavators cleaning up the debris at the site of blasts in the Binhai new district of Tianjin, China, August 21, 2015. Chinese authorities announced Saturday that they were calling off the search for the remaining eight people missing as a result of the explosions. Photo: Reuters  It was striking that when the Belarusian journalist Svetlana Alexievich won the Nobel Prize for Literature this month for her in-depth reportage work, comments from Chinese journalists on social media ranged from hope that her success would encourage Chinese reporters “to have a broader understanding of journalism with more cultural depth”, to the more cynical “China’s investigative journalists are either not published, or they’ve moved over to entertainment or fashion media, or just completely changed their career.”
Yet not everyone has given up. Even in recent weeks the Chinese media has shown that it’s not been completely neutered. It has generally followed the official line on major affairs of state, such as coverage of President Xi Jinping’s recent visit to the U.S., but there have also been reports on workers' protests and factory closures, stories questioning the official version of a case of forced relocation in which a villager died, and editorials criticizing the government’s new regulations for ride-hailing apps.
“There are still some very clever, good journalists with a conscience,” says Ivy Zhang, a specialist on Chinese media at the University of Nottingham. “And there are some editors who are still quite aggressive. For example I’ve been told by editors that they know that, when a particular incident happens, the propaganda bureau will issue a directive telling them not to report it, but it will take time to do this. So they immediately send journalists to get the story as quickly as possible, and publish it before they’re told not to. It’s like a race!”
And Zhang says that, despite ever-evolving government attempts to control China’s social media, it has also provided journalists with a new outlet: “They post many articles online as quickly as they can,” she says, “to get more people to read them – before they’re deleted; and if they’re deleted they go to another account and post them again!”
Chinese authorities have increased media restrictions on several occasions in the past three years. Photo: REUTERS  Indeed, some still see online media as providing a new alternative for Chinese journalists. Despite controls, “there’s a lot of space online,” says a former state media editor who is about to launch an online video chat show, hosted by a private web operator, in which he will discuss business issues. Such “self-media” have become increasingly popular outlets for Chinese media veterans frustrated with the limits of working in the mainstream media.  Several former editors are now using this means of reaching an audience – as are pop star turned popular current affairs pundit Gao Xiaosong, and economist Wu Xiaobo.
“It gives them a platform as an independent intellectual,” says a TV professional. “They can talk about the economy or current affairs. And they’re smart – they may not talk about official policy directly, but people who know about these things will understand what they’re saying.
Certainly there is still money flowing into online ventures, including a new online news channel and app with the bold name of ‘Wu Jie’ or ‘No Frontiers.’ It’s been set up by staff of Caijing magazine, with investment from Jack Ma, the billionaire founder of Chinese e-commerce giant Alibaba. Observers says it’s aiming to compete with The Paper, an online news platform launched by Shanghai’s official newspaper group last year, which is edited by younger journalists and focuses on social, economic and cultural stories – including local government abuses and miscarriages of justice. “This is the contemporary equivalent of the old Southern Weekly,” says one journalist, optimistically, suggesting that The Paper’s relatively small elite audience of intellectuals means the government will give it greater leeway than mainstream media like state broadcaster CCTV.
Alibaba’s Ma has also invested nearly $200 million in China Business News, a Shanghai-based group which operates a TV station, magazine and newspaper targeting the country’s business community. Some observers believe this is just the beginning of greater commercial investment in China’s media, which would boost its financial strength. And there’s no question that the government still sees the media, and Internet, as an area of economic growth – last year President Xi called on the country’s main state media groups, such as the People’s Daily and Xinhua News Agency, to invest in building up their online presence.
At the same time, the growing development of official media online is seen by some as a way of consolidating official control on information, in an era where the Internet has brought a much greater diversity of voices to Chinese readers. And the young financial journalist believes that if self-media and other new social media platforms – such as closed members’ groups on social media site WeChat, which have become a popular way for journalists to share information – continue to develop, more controls are likely to follow.
A sharp decline in Chinese imports, according to trade data released Oct. 13, 2015, highlight continuing concerns about a slowdown in domestic demand in the world’s second largest economy. Pictured: A Chinese consumer looks at bottles of red wine in a supermarket in Beijing on Oct. 26, 2005.  Photo: Reuters/Jason Lee  “At the moment there’s not so much direct censorship,” he says. “But if in two or three years’ time there are lots of new media companies and websites doing this, then I’m sure they’ll control it.”
Concerns have also been raised at the government’s announcement late last month that all regions must set up new “Journalistic ethics committees” – the official Xinhua News Agency said their duties would involve “poring over journalists’ work, and naming and shaming those guilty of misconduct.” 
Willy Lam of the Chinese University of Hong Kong says with the government grappling with a slowing economy, the last thing it wants is aggressive media scrutiny.
“The top priority now is to maintain steady growth, so we may see less market liberalization than they promised a couple of years ago,” he says. “Like the recent package on state enterprise reforms [announced last month] was seen by many as a disappointment -- so the leadership don’t want too many critical voices coming from the media now.”
Despite the deepening challenges, though, some Chinese journalists appear determined to carry on:
“It’s the worst time to be a journalist in China,” says one veteran former media professional, “but I’m surprised how many of my friends still want to carry on fighting!”
“I wish I could be a culture journalist,” sighs the financial reporter, “just dealing with movie companies and celebrities. It would be so much safer – and you’d be respected! But I’ve worked in this field for so long – I can’t quit now!”
Royal Dutch Shell Plc announced Monday that it will cease exploration activities off the Alaskan coast for the “foreseeable future” following disappointing results from a well in the Chukchi Sea. The company has so far spent more than $7 billion on Arctic offshore development in the Chukchi and Beaufort seas.
“Shell continues to see important exploration potential in the basin, and the area is likely to ultimately be of strategic importance to Alaska and the U.S.,” Marvin Odum, director of Shell Upstream Americas, said, in a statement released Monday. “However, this is a clearly disappointing exploration outcome for this part of the basin.”
The decision reflects results of drilling operations in the Burger J well, the high costs associated with the project, and “the challenging and unpredictable federal regulatory environment in offshore Alaska,” the company added, in the statement.
Shell had won approval to drill the Burger J well -- located approximately 150 miles from Barrow, Alaska -- in August. However, after drilling to a depth of 6,800 feet, indications of oil and gas at the well were deemed insufficient to warrant further exploration, the company said.
The energy giant is likely to face a loss of $4.1 billion for abandoning the well, which is valued at $3 billion with another $1.1 billion tied up in “future contractual commitments.” 
According to an estimate by the U.S. Energy Information Administration, Alaska holds nearly 9 percent of American crude oil reserves, and over 2 percent of the country’s natural gas reserves. Shell currently holds a 100 percent working interest in 275 outer continental shelf blocks in the Chukchi Sea.
However, environmental groups have long opposed Arctic offshore drilling fearing the impact it might have on the region's fragile ecosystem.
“Everything we know about dangerous oil drilling in the Arctic indicates it imperils a national treasure and is guaranteed to make our climate crisis worse,” Michael Brune, executive director of the Sierra Club said, in a statement released in August. “Allowing Shell to use unproven technology in the Arctic is a recipe for disaster and toxic to any climate action legacy.”
Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi concluded the West Coast leg of his official visit to the U.S. with a speech at San Jose's SAP Center, to a rousing welcome from thousands of Indian Americans who chanted "Modi, Modi, Modi," on Sunday.
Modi, whose California trip to woo technology leaders -- from Cisco to Tesla -- to invest in India is already being widely seen as a big hit, used the evening's speech to draw attention to two broader challenges.
"Today there are two major challenges before the world. One is terrorism and the other is global warming," he said, speaking in Hindi. "And it is my belief that if the world's forces that value humanity unite, if the people who believe in humanitarian values unite, then we can defeat terrorism as well as save the planet from global warming."
India has accepted these challenges and is "fully prepared" to tackle them, Modi said, adding that his government was putting pressure on the United Nations to speedily resolve the problem of defining terrorism.
"The UN is celebrating its seventieth anniversary, but hasn't yet been able to agree on the definition of terrorism," he said, adding: "If it takes so much time to even define terrorism, how long might it take to tackle it?"
In the absence of the globally accepted language and definitions on terrorism, "today there are dealings in good terrorism and bad terrorism," and in such a scenario it is not possible to combat the problem, he said.
"It must be clear in the eyes of the world, who supports terrorism, who is for humanity ... once and for all, it must be in black and white," he said. "Terrorism is terrorism."
The Indian prime minister, who is continuing India's long-standing demand for a permanent seat at the United Nations Security Council, said the U.N. couldn't afford to wait much longer and it was the organization's responsibility to define the language on dealing with global terror.
"Once you have a clear picture, a clear road map will also emerge," he said.
Modi, who participated in a town hall at Facebook's headquarters earlier on Sunday, also wrote on a wall at the company, flanked by CEO Mark Zuckerberg and COO Sheryl Sandberg: "Ahimsa (non violence) is the greatest dharma (tenet), satyameva jayate (May truth prevail)," he wrote.
Comcast Corp., the largest U.S. cable operator, announced Monday that it will acquire a 51 percent stake in USJ Co., the holding company of Japanese theme park Universal Studios Japan, as part of its bid to expand its overseas businesses. The move is said to be the company's biggest overseas investment.
Comcast’s NBCUniversal will pay $1.5 billion for the majority stake in USJ, the Philadelphia-based company said, in a statement Monday. USJ CEO Glenn Gumpel will step down, while Goldman Sachs Group Inc., MBK Partners Ltd. and Gumpel will retain their minority shares in USJ. The deal gives USJ an enterprise value of $6.2 billion.
The deal is expected to close in the first half of November, Comcast said, according to Reuters.
“We see Comcast and NBCUniversal becoming more of a global company,” Comcast CEO Brian Roberts told reporters in Osaka Monday, according to Bloomberg. “This is the beginning of us making more global investments.”
Comcast gained the Universal film and theme park franchises after it paid General Electric Co. $1.67 billion in 2013, which gave it full ownership of NBCUniversal, as well as the NBC broadcast network, and cable channels MSNBC and Bravo. USJ has been operating as an independent company under license from NBCUniversal. 
USJ had planned a public offering on the Tokyo stock exchange sometime this year, but concerns have been raised over the timing, due to the upcoming IPO of the Japan Post group in November, sources told Reuters.
USJ opened its theme park in 2001, and listed on the startup exchange Mothers Market in 2007. The company had hoped to build Universal Studios Japan as a rival to the Tokyo Disneyland, but was forced to delist in 2009 after it struggled to stay afloat, and was sold to a consortium led by Goldman Sachs.
However, USJ has enjoyed renewed success ever since the opening of its "Wizarding World of Harry Potter" attraction last July, recording 11.8 million visitors in 2014, a 16.8 percent increase from the previous year, and a revenue boost of 44 percent.
USJ also plans to open another theme park in Okinawa.
Comcast's latest move comes after it dropped its massive $45.2 billion bid to buy rival Time Warner Cable Inc. in April, after facing stiff opposition from antitrust regulators.
A duck boat involved in last week’s fatal crash that killed five people and injured dozens did not have an axle repair that was recommended in 2013, the National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) said Sunday, according to the Associated Press (AP). The deadly incident occurred Thursday when an amphibious duck boat and a motorcoach collided.
Ride the Ducks International, which rebuilt the boat in 2005, issued a warning two years ago about potential axle failure and recommended a specific repair or increased monitoring, NTSB member Earl Weener reportedly said at a news conference.
"This particular duck had not had the fix," Weener said, according to the AP, adding that it was unclear if the company that owns the vehicle -- Ride the Ducks of Seattle -- was aware of the warning. The NTSB also did not reveal what prompted the warning or how the potential failure was discovered.
In a briefing Saturday, Weener described an axle as having "sheared off -- for what reason yet we don't know."
On Sunday, a spokeswoman for Harborview Medical Center reportedly said that the fifth victim -- identified as a 20-year-old woman -- died at the hospital, while four other students of North Seattle College died at the scene of the crash.
North Seattle College said in a statement that about 45 students and employees from its international programs were on the charter bus. At least 13 people were at Seattle hospitals Sunday for treatment, authorities reportedly said.
Ride the Ducks of Seattle owner Brian Tracey said Sunday night that operations of its duck boats will remain suspended until all the vehicles are inspected, the AP reported. The inspection will reportedly be conducted by the state Utilities and Transportation Commission.
NTSB investigative team examines the wheel of the DUKW vehicle involved in the multi-vehicle crash in Seattle. pic.twitter.com/S12KSJUBnd
— NTSB (@NTSB) September 26, 2015
NTSB highway investigator Dave Pereira examines wheel of the DUKW vehicle involved in multi-vehicle crash in Seattle. pic.twitter.com/iTcoR1Vya0
— NTSB (@NTSB) September 26, 2015
BERLIN/ROME (Reuters) - Volkswagen's own staff and one of its suppliers warned years ago about software designed to thwart emissions tests, two German newspapers reported on Sunday, as the automaker tries to uncover whether its executives knew about the cheating.
Europe's biggest automaker is adding up the cost of the biggest business scandal in its 78-year history, having acknowledged installing software in diesel engines designed to hide their emissions of toxic gasses.
Countries around the world have launched their own investigations after the company was caught cheating on tests in the United States. Volkswagen says the software affected engines in 11 million cars, most of which were sold in Europe.
The company's internal investigation is likely to focus on how far up the chain of command were executives who were responsible for the cheating, and how long were they aware of it.
The Frankfurter Allgemeine Sonntagszeitung, citing a source on VW's supervisory board, said the board had received an internal report at its meeting on Friday showing VW technicians had warned about illegal emissions practices in 2011. No explanation was given as to why the matter was not addressed then.
Separately, Bild am Sonntag newspaper said VW's internal probe had turned up a letter from parts supplier Bosch written in 2007 that also warned against the possible illegal use of Bosch-supplied software technology. The paper did not cite a source for its report.
Volkswagen declined to comment on the details of either newspaper report.
"There are serious investigations underway and the focus is now also on technical solutions" for customers and dealers, a Volkswagen spokesman said. "As soon as we have reliable facts we will be able to give answers."
A spokesman for Bosch  said the company's dealings with VW were confidential.
Bild said Martin Winterkorn, who quit as Volkswagen CEO last week, was demanding his salary for the rest of his contract through the end of next year but the board did not want to pay it. It cited no source. Winterkorn was paid 16 million euros last year, the most of any CEO in Germany's blue chip DAX index.
New CEO Matthais Mueller sent a letter to staff promising "relentless" efforts to investigate the scandal and promote the "strongest compliance and governance standards in the industry".
Sales Halt In Italy
Volkswagen is still coming up with plans to deal with the 11 million cars that it built with the affected engines.
Its Italian unit has told its dealers to stop selling them, Italy's Corriera della Sera newspaper reported on Sunday. It said that would leave 40,000 cars stuck on Italian lots.
"As a precautionary measure, we ask that you suspend immediately the sale, registration and delivery only of vehicles carrying the Euro 5, EA 189 motor," the newspaper quoted Massimo Nordio, chief executive office of Volkswagen's Italian unit, as writing in a letter to dealers.
A Volkswagen spokesman said there had been no instructions from company headquarters in Germany to dealers to stop selling the affected cars, but sales units in individual countries had the right to take such decisions on their own.
Italy's Volkswagen headquarters in Verona did not immediately respond to calls.
In Volkswagen's home market Germany, where 2.8 million of the 11 million affected diesel cars are on the road, the government watchdog KBA has set an Oct. 7 deadline for the company to present a plan to bring diesel emissions into line with the law, Bild reported.
The transport ministry said the KBA had written to VW demanding it "commit to concrete steps and a timetable" to ensure its cars in Germany meet requirements.
A Volkswagen spokesman said: "It is in our strongest interest to provide clarification here as soon as possible. We will inform the KBA about what we are doing and the talks are occurring on the highest level."
Political Pressure
German politicians have been adding to the pressure on Volkswagen, worried about the reputation of German industry.
Environment Minister Barbara Hendricks said the scandal must not be allowed to tarnish "the made in Germany brand".
"If a global player from Germany violates environment protection rules that blatantly, this casts a shadow on the environment pledges of German companies,” she told Handelsblatt newspaper in an interview to be published on Monday.
She said the European Union was working on stricter emissions tests to focus more on normal road conditions, rather than rely on lab results.
Diesel engines use less fuel and emit less carbon - blamed for global warming - than standard gasoline engines. But they emit higher levels of toxic gasses known as nitrogen oxides, blamed for deaths from lung and heart disease.
In most of the world, including the United States, diesel engines in passenger cars are a niche product. But their fuel economy and low carbon emissions have made them popular in Europe, where they now account for half of vehicles sold.
Volkswagen and other European manufacturers have promoted "clean diesel" technology, benefiting from diesel's fuel economy but meeting stringent tests for emissions of toxins. But the suggestion that this was achieved by cheating on tests could affect the viability of the entire diesel sector and the fate of companies that have bet on it.
Saudi Arabia has withdrawn tens of billions of dollars from global asset managers in recent months in an effort to cut its massive deficit, caused by falling oil prices over the past year, Financial Times reported Sunday. The country's banks are borrowing in the bonds and loans market because of the cash squeeze.
The price of crude oil has halved in the past year and now stands at about $50 a barrel. The slump in oil prices forced governments to fund spending through bond sales and to use cash accumulated during the boom. 
Nigel Sillitoe, chief executive of financial services market intelligence company Insight Discovery, told FT that fund managers estimate the Saudi Arabia Monetary Agency has pulled out between $50 billion and $70 billion over the past six months.Last week, a large amount of assets were withdrawn, and fund managers told FT it was "our Black Monday." Several global asset managers told FT they were hit by a wave of redemptions, which came on top of an initial round of withdrawals this year.
Deposits into Saudi Arabian banks fell by about $4.53 billion from June to July, Bloomberg reported, and the country's three-month interbank lending rate climbed 12 basis points Tuesday from this year’s low in March. 
Although some of this withdrawn cash has been used to fund the Saudi Arabian deficit, the central bank is also seeking to reinvest into less risky, more liquid products, FT reported.
Saudi Arabia isn't the only Gulf nation anticipating a cash drain. Deposits into banks in Qatar fell by about $6.6 billion from June to July, and $1.2 billion in the United Arab Emirates, Bloomberg reported.
Despite the massive withdrawals, Saudi Arabia has financial reserves in the neighborhood of $780 billion to cushion the effect of lost revenue, experts told International Business Times this year, meaning it can withstand low oil prices for years to come.
On a calm Friday afternoon, the lot at Bay Ridge Volkswagen in the Brooklyn borough of New York appeared to be packed to capacity with new and used VWs parked neatly beside one another, barely any space between most of them. Even though almost every inch of the dealership’s grounds seemed to be occupied by vehicles, no customers were driving them off the lot.
One could see this as a slump in sales, possibly caused by the news that the automaker Volkswagen AG had been rigging some of its diesel cars to cheat on emissions tests, but Bay Ridge Volkswagen’s general manager Jed Kass said the scandal hasn’t hit the dealership at all -- it doesn’t even sell that many diesel cars.
“The percentage of our business that’s diesel is very small,” said Kass, who has been in the automotive-sales business for 31 years and has been selling Volkswagens for the past five years. “Though we have a few customers affected, it’s a minority.”
The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s disclosure of the Volkswagen emissions-test fraud was followed almost immediately by plummeting share prices and a shakeup of the company’s corporate structure. Edmunds.com, an online resource for car buyers, predicted that Volkswagen and its Audi unit would be the only major auto brands to see sales slump this month compared with the same month a year ago. But it may not be all doom and gloom for the firm: Nationally, diesel sales constitute less than one-quarter of its total sales.
“I don’t think it’s going to help sales, but I don’t think they have been affected one way or the other,” Kass said.
BREAKING: German government says Volkswagen illegally manipulated millions of diesel emissions tests. http://t.co/j6ZbCmGAiz
&mdash; CNN Breaking News (@cnnbrk) September 25, 2015
Although some Volkswagen dealers said they were overwhelmed by negative blowback from customers when the scandal news broke, the effect hasn’t been felt by all VW dealers nationwide. Because the scandal unfolded only about a week ago, Kass said he hasn’t been able to tell whether the bad publicity has had a real impact on foot traffic or sales at his dealership.
About three or four customers who bought the affected Volkswagen models have come back to Kass asking about the cars, but he said they were mostly concerned that the cars weren’t safe to drive. Once Kass told them the cars were safe to drive, the car owners calmed down.
In forecasting a September sales drop, Edmunds.com noted that Volkswagen diesels don’t make up a particularly large piece of the overall car market. And it pointed out that Volkswagen doesn’t have a very large share of auto sales in the U.S. anyway.
“Volkswagen’s deception is dominating headlines, but it is not keeping shoppers away from other brands’ showrooms,” Jessica Caldwell, Edmunds.com director of industry analysis, said in a statement. “It puts the crisis in a little bit of perspective, since these Volkswagen diesels don’t constitute a very big share of sales. It’s also a reminder that buyers won’t disappear from the market just because they suddenly can’t or don’t want to buy these affected cars.”
At some dealers, diesel sales do make up significant pieces of their business. Chris Murphy, sales manager at Volkswagen of Oakland in California, told the Associated Press that diesel sales make up about 30 percent of his business and that some people want the dealership to give them some kind of refund or buy back the cars.
“We can’t afford to buy all those cars back. We’re just one dealer,” Murphy told AP. “This is definitely going to impact our business. We’re trying to focus on positive, not negative, things because there’s nothing we can do.”
While waiting to see whether his overall sales will be affected in the future, Kass and his salespeople are also waiting for word from Volkswagen corporate offices on how to remedy the situation. Company heads sent the dealership a letter saying they are committed to solving the problem, but didn’t give any specific directions.
As a result, Kass said, “We really want to see what Volkswagen will do, and we’ll react when they tell us what their plans are.”
LONDON (Reuters) -- Thousands of jobs cuts, business closures and billions of euros of capital raising are all in the cards as the new bosses of three of Europe's biggest banks respond to pressure to devise new strategies to revive them. Credit Suisse Group AG's Tidjane Thiam, Deutsche Bank AG's John Cryan and Standard Chartered PLC's Bill Winters are putting the final touches to their plans, which Thiam and Cryan will unveil next month and Winters is expected to deliver in early December.
All have been in charge roughly 100 days, a period when new chief executives typically formulate strategy after meeting investors, regulators, politicians, customers and staff. Big job cuts loom in a bid to cut costs and improve profitability -- their main target.
Cryan is to cut 23,000 staff members, or about one-quarter of head count, mostly from disposals, financial sources told Reuters this month. Winters could ax several thousand, sources said, although they said no final decisions had been made and much will depend on disposals. Meanwhile, Thiam has said he plans to use his engineering background to take a hard-nosed look at efficiency.
Senior management ranks are also being shaken up -- Winters has named a new management team and is cutting layers of bureaucracy to simplify and speed up decision-making, while Thiam immediately brought in a longtime confidant as his chief of staff and moved a couple of staffers.
Banco Santander S.A.'s chairwoman Ana Botin said this week changes she had made in her first 12 months had "laid the foundations for the bank we want for the next 10 years," that 21 of her top 31 management team members are new or have new roles.
Thiam, Cryan and Winters, all in their early 50s, each needs to undo mistakes made by predecessors and shrink their banks to reduce complexity and get out of business areas that no longer make money. Other banks, including CEO-less Barclays PLC and UniCredit SpA, are also going through the process, but new CEOs are under pressure to come in with a fresh view to take bold action.
"All are high-caliber, but they need to hurry up and make decisions about their business and markets while they are still learning a lot about them," one senior banker said.
All three CEOs declined requests for interviews. But here is their thinking on key issues, according to public comments and interviews with sources at banks, investors and analysts.
First 100 Days …
The three CEOs all have gathered with their boards and senior bankers this month -- opting for hotel retreats in Bavaria, Switzerland and Singapore -- to discuss plans. They have made some big changes in their first two to three months and given broad signals on where their priorities lie in messages to staff and reports on second-quarter results.
Winters halved his bank's dividend after a slump in second-quarter profits laid bare the scale of the challenge he faces.
Meanwhile, Cryan said he planned to stick with Strategy 2020, which includes reducing the size of the investment bank and selling its Postbank retail bank and cutting other parts of the retail chain. He also said there were plenty of businesses that could still be changed "quite significantly."
And all three are expected to cut their investment bank operations, especially fixed income trading.
The Personal Touch
Thiam has impressed with a confident start, analysts said. The multilinguist has said he would be "ruthlessly selective" about what the bank does, driven by adding shareholder value. A former Ivory Coast government minister who previously ran U.K. insurer Prudential for six years, Thiam wants a capital-light bank and is expected to put more focus on Asia.
"This is a CEO with a track record, a very successful track record at Prudential. He's seen as a remarkable asset allocator, particularly in terms of distributing capital towards regions where he sees growth, and reducing capital headed for areas in which he doesn't see the same growth," said Guy de Blonay, a manager of the Jupiter Global Financial Opportunities Fund. He owns shares in Credit Suisse and was previously an investor in Deutsche Bank and Standard Chartered.
Winters, a dual U.S. and British citizen who ran JPMorgan Chase & Co.'s investment bank and was a member of a U.K. government commission that recommended how banks should be made safer, said Standard Chartered was "a special bank" but has its problems. It had been too focused on growth and not on returns for investors. Its risk assessment had been poor, and it had been "too slow to take hard decisions, whether on costs, people, or strategy," he told analysts.
Cryan, a former UBS Group AG finance director, also said complexity and costs were stifling his bank. "This is the first time ever that you had the feeling that somebody is talking straight," said one person familiar with the bank. "But the problem is he has to deliver soon." At his first supervisory board meeting as CEO in July in New York, he kept quiet and took a lot of notes, but at this month's meeting in Bavaria, he talked a lot and listed all the problems and weak points for the bank -- but without giving his solutions, according to people at the meetings.
Cash Call?
Meanwhile, all three banks could do with more capital, analysts say. Each has a capital solvency ratio above its regulatory requirements, but are relatively weak compared with rivals. Each could opt for a major rights issue, a less disruptive smaller fundraising of several billion dollars or try to build equity capital by retaining earnings and cutting assets -- less painful but potentially holding back on any growth plans.
However, depressed share prices at Deutsche Bank and Standard Chartered make a highly dilutive rights issue unlikely, analysts and investors said. Deutsche Bank already raised 8.5 billion euros ($9.52 billion) last year, while Winters might prefer a quick-fire share sale to raise $3 billion, they said.
Thiam is more likely to raise cash swiftly, bankers reckon, and he told staff on his first day the bank needed a strong balance sheet to help it through rough times.
Credit Suisse's common equity capital ratio of 10.3 percent of risk-adjusted assets is well below that of archrival UBS, and investors said raising $6 billion or more should be supported as long as it is accompanied by a positive growth story when he steps up Oct. 21.
(Reporting by Steve Slater and Sinead Cruise; Additional reporting by Kathrin Jones in Frankfurt and Joshua Franklin in Zurich; Editing by Greg Mahlich)
Volkswagen owners in the Sacramento area on Friday filed the latest in a series of class-action lawsuits against the automaker, alleging fraud, breach of warranty, unjust enrichment and negligent misrepresentation in response to VW's acknowledgement that its diesel engines were designed to defeat emissions testing. The lawsuit seeks class-action status on behalf of "tens of thousands" of Californians who bought or leased VWs with diesel engines from 2009 to 2015, the Sacramento Bee reported.
The German automaker already is facing fines of as much as $18 billion after admitting it used software that reported misleading emissions data during testing. “I personally am deeply sorry that we have broken the trust of our customers and the public,” said CEO Martin Winterkorn, who has since resigned, the first in what is expected to be a long line of exiting executives. “Volkswagen has ordered an external investigation of this matter.”

“Put simply,” the complaint alleges, “[Volkswagen’s] defeat device results in cars that meet emissions standards in the laboratory or testing station, but during everyday operation the device is programmed in such a manner that [a car] emits nitrogen oxides at up to 40 times the standard permitted by U.S. health regulations.” Nitrogen oxides contribute to ozone and smog.
The lawsuit, which was filed Friday, notes not only were VW buyers cheated out of the low-emissions vehicle they thought they were driving, the cars are now worth less money on trade-in. The suit seeks unspecified damages.
As many as 500,000 vehicles in the United States and 11 million worldwide could be involved, federal regulators have estimated. The complaint estimates 77,000 of them were sold in California.
Separately a pair of Stanford University teachers filed a similar suit in San Francisco Friday, the second in the Bay area, involving their 2013 Passat. A Los Angeles resident sued over his 2010 Audi. Other suits have been filed in Iowa, Missouri, Tennessee, Maine, Oregon, Wisconsin, Florida, Virginia, New York, North Carolina, Kentucky, Massachusetts, Georgia, Texas and Vermont, in addition to suits filed  consumer-rights law firm,  Hagens Berman and Keller Rohrback of Seattle and Bailey & Glasser of Boston. Canadian VW owners also have filed suit.
Investigations into Volkswagen have been opened in several countries, including India and Norway.
The scandal has enraged VW owners, especially in light of a multimillion-dollar advertising campaign touting its clean diesel cars. Under enticing slogans like “no compromise,” the company spun a narrative that its cars offered both great performance and high fuel economy without the smoky emissions of traditional diesel vehicles.
“In an ideal world, I want them to show up at my door with a check for $27,000. I'd tell them, 'There’s the car, take it and good luck to you,' ” said Christopher Monroe of Ithaca, New York, who owns a 2010 Jetta.
Cuban President Raul Castro took a swing Saturday at the 55-year-old American economic blockade of his country, saying it’s the “main obstacle” to his nation’s development. While Castro indicated the recent warming of the diplomatic relations between Havana and Washington is a welcome step, he said the halting of the embargo would be vital to the future development of the Caribbean country.
“Such a policy is rejected by 188 United Nations member-states that demand its removal,” Castro said in a speech at a U.N. development summit in New York. He also will address the U.N. General Assembly Monday, a few hours after U.S. President Barack Obama delivers his own speech.
The U.N. General Assembly has approved a resolution calling on the U.S. to lift its crippling commercial, economic and financial embargo on Cuba for 32 consecutive years. Despite this widespread international consensus, Congress has voted on several occasions to strengthen the embargo put in place in 1960 after Cuba’s Communist government appropriated American-owned assets such as crude-oil refineries in the wake of the Cuban Revolution.
Cuba claims the embargo has cost the country about $121 billion in economic damages.
During Castro’s speech Saturday, he called on developed countries to do more to accept responsibilities for the debt issues faced by many developing nations.
Most of Cuba’s economic activity is hobbled by the U.S. embargo, which can only be scrapped with Congress’ backing. Under the embargo, the U.S. can under certain circumstances punish foreign companies doing business in Cuba that also have American investments. Because so many global firms have significant U.S.-based assets, they fear retaliation over doing business in Cuba.Politically, U.S. lawmakers have been emboldened by Cuban exiles in Florida, a key swing state, to take a hard stance against Havana. In 1996, Democratic President Bill Clinton signed the Republican-sponsored Helms-Burton Act, which strengthened the embargo.Late last year, however, Obama began carrying out a series of executive actions to boost ties between the American and Cuban governments. These actions have encompassed reopening Washington’s embassy in Havana and, more recently, doing away with restrictions on some business activity, economic transactions and travel. Obama’s strategy is aimed at forcing Cuba to accept reforms, such as allowing U.S. technology companies to invest in the country now that it’s legal, and at urging Congress to lift the embargo.
The death of the embargo would spark a rapid chain of events. Cuba would act to reform its monetary system -- the country has two currencies, one pegged to the U.S. dollar and another that isn’t -- so it could approach the International Monetary Fund and World Bank for access to development loans to build much-needed infrastructure.
Cuba’s tourism industry would see immense investments, and the country would expand its already established medical-device and pharmaceutical industries. It also would see profound changes in its agricultural sector by spurring investment and exports.
BERLIN (Reuters) -- Angela Merkel learned early in her political career that taking on the German car industry carries risks. It was the spring of 1995 and the newly appointed environment minister was trying to convince her cabinet colleagues to back a bold new set of anti-smog rules that included tougher speed limits and summer driving bans.
But Matthias Wissmann, the transport minister with close ties to industry, was having none of it. He questioned whether Merkel's measures would cut pollution levels at all and vowed to fight any attempt to impose speed limits on the Autobahn. Wissmann's argument won the day, reducing Merkel to tears, according to a 2010 biography by Gerd Langguth. For the ambitious young minister from the communist East, it was a lesson about how politics worked in a united Germany.
Much has changed in the intervening years. Merkel is now in her third term as chancellor. Wissmann heads the Verband der Automobilindustrie (VDA), the influential lobby group for German automakers.
But there is one constant: the clout of the auto industry in German politics. This relationship, which some describe as symbiotic, bordering on incestuous, is in the spotlight now, as Volkswagen AG, the country's largest carmaker, reels from an emissions scandal that has forced out the long-time Volkswagen Group CEO Martin Winterkorn and sent the company's share price careening lower.
There are no indications that German politicians were aware that VW was rigging its diesel emissions tests. Merkel and her leading ministers have expressed surprise and indignation at the revelations, urging VW to clear them up swiftly.
But authorities in Germany and elsewhere in Europe had known for years about the widening gap between emissions values measured in official laboratory tests and those recorded in real-world environments.
Yet, critics say, Berlin fought hard to shield its carmakers from closer scrutiny and, in a high-profile clash with its European partners two years ago, from tougher emissions targets. Merkel has defended the stance as necessary to protect jobs in the industry.
Some see the VW scandal as symptomatic of a deeper problem in which German car companies have been allowed to do as they please without oversight or fear of reprisals from Berlin.
"The Volkswagen scandal is a warning shot to the politicians," said Christina Deckwirth of Berlin-based Lobby Control. "It shows they need to spend less time protecting the auto industry and more time overseeing it."
Poster Child
There are good reasons why Berlin stands by its car companies. The industry employs more than 750,000 people in Germany, has been a poster child for German engineering prowess and dwarfs other sectors of the economy.
In 2014, the big three carmakers -- Volkswagen, Daimler AG and Bayerische Motoren Werke AG -- hauled in revenue of 413 billion euros ($462.33 billion), far bigger than the German federal budget, which stood at just under 300 billion ($335.84 billion). This has bred a cozy relationship between the industry and politicians. Top auto lobbyist Wissmann is a veteran of Merkel's Christian Democratic Union (CDU) who, despite their cabinet clash 20 years ago, uses the familiar "Du" with the chancellor.
Daimler's chief lobbyist is Eckart von Klaeden, a senior CDU politician who worked under Merkel in the chancellery and whose abrupt switch to the Mercedes manufacturer in 2013 prompted an investigation by Berlin prosecutors and new rules on "cooling off" periods. His predecessor at Daimler was Martin Jaeger, now the representative of Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble.
The ties cross party lines. Thomas Steg, a former spokesman under Social Democrat (SPD) Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder, heads up government affairs at Volkswagen. Even former Foreign Minister Joschka Fischer of the environmentalist Greens has done ads for BMW in recent years.
The political connections are particularly strong at Volkswagen, whose arcane shareholder structure is laid out in the so-called Volkswagen Law, which dates back to 1960 and has faced repeated legal challenges at the European level. The law effectively shields the company from takeovers and bestow influence on Lower Saxony, a state in central Germany that owns a 20 percent stake in VW and has been a stepping-stone to national power for countless politicians.
Premiers of Lower Saxony who have sat on VW's board include Schroeder, nicknamed the Auto Chancellor, current Vice Chancellor Sigmar Gabriel and former President Christian Wulff. When Schroeder launched his far-reaching reform of the German labor market in 2003, he turned to Peter Hartz, the human-resources chief of VW, to steer it.
Years later, Hartz was at the center of another major scandal to hit VW, a tale of corruption involving lavish company trips for employee representatives, including visits to prostitutes. He received a suspended sentence and a fine.
The VW scandal has also exposed the toothlessness of Germany's regulatory regime, opposition parties and industry experts say. The main oversight agency for the car sector, the Federal Motor Transport Authority, falls under the Transport Ministry in Berlin, raising questions about its independence and readiness to police the sector.
"The worst of all is that the automobile industry was left to do these tests themselves, there was no control," Oliver Kirscher, a lawmaker for the Greens said in a debate in the German parliament Friday.
The industry group VDA rejects the idea that controls were lax and says it has been pressing for reform of the test regime for emissions "intensively and constructively" for years.
Emissions Fight
Unlike her predecessor Schroeder, Merkel has no direct ties to the car industry. But her stance has clearly evolved since her days as an environment minister under Helmut Kohl.
Back in 2009, in the months before she would run for a second term, she oversaw a controversial and ultimately unsuccessful rescue of German carmaker Opel, going against the advice of her economy minister, who argued that the General Motors unit should be allowed to go bankrupt.
Four years later, in the run-up to the next election and amid heavy pressure from the VDA, her government lobbied aggressively in Brussels -- even threatening other countries to win their backing, according to diplomats -- to water down new European rules on CO2 emissions that Daimler and BMW opposed. In a "Dear Angela" letter that later leaked, causing an uproar in the German media, Wissmann urged Merkel to fight the more ambitious targets.
"I think we need to ensure that in our drive to protect the environment we are not damaging our own industrial base," Merkel said at the time.
Months later, and only weeks after Merkel had won a third term, her party received donations totaling 690,000 euros ($772,420) from the family that controls BMW. The news sparked a backlash from opposition parties and the German media. The CDU said the money had "no connection to any political decisions."
Critics say that by doubling down on its premium carmakers and heeding their warnings about introducing ambitious emissions targets, Berlin has unwittingly discouraged innovation and harmed the industry's long-term prospects.
Germany is a laggard on electric cars and is widely expected to miss a target of selling 1 million of them by the end of the decade.  
"Until now, the German auto industry has been handled with kid gloves by the politicians," said Klaus Mueller, head of the Federation of German Consumer Organizations. "Emissions targets were set at less than ambitious levels and agreement on new testing rules was delayed. Even worse, there was no mechanism for overseeing whether legal emissions limits were being met, at the cost of the environment and the consumer, as the VW case has now shown."
(Reporting by Noah Barkin; Editing by Janet McBride)
LONDON -- The spiral of white lines as the battery on an iPhone dies is one of the most frustrating images in modern life. No more Crossy Road, no more Snapchat, no more social life. Now imagine if the same image appeared on the dashboard of your car, leaving you stranded miles from the nearest power source.
This is the challenge facing Apple as it embarks on what is the most difficult task in the company’s history -- designing and building an electric car from scratch that can meet its own exacting standards while having enough power to get drivers where they need to go.
The key to any electric car is its battery. It is the single most expensive component and is the biggest factor in the consumer purchasing decision when it comes to electric vehicles.
Just like smartphone batteries, advances in automotive battery technology over the last five years have been incremental at best. We have had numerous “breakthroughs” that promised to allow us to drive from San Francisco to New York on a single charge -- such as those from Envia Systems and the cautionary tale of A123 -- but all have fallen short when it came to delivering on their promises.
Despite the high cost of batteries and lack of real advances in technology, Apple’s reported decision to go down the electric car route -- not yet formally confirmed by the company -- was probably not a difficult one for CEO Tim Cook, Jony Ive and the team they have assembled to produce the company’s first ever car, which the Wall Street Journal reported will be introduced in 2019.
A Tesla S electric car and a charging station are displayed during the press preview day of the North American International Auto Show in Detroit in this Jan. 14, 2014, photo. Electric car maker Tesla Motors' operating loss per vehicle has tripled in the past year to nearly $15,000, and at its current rate of spending, the company would burn through its cash reserves in less than a year.  Photo: Reuters/Rebecca Cook/Files
Bringing an electric car to market for a new manufacturer is a lot easier than introducing a gasoline or diesel-powered vehicle because of regulatory issues. The difference was highlighted this week by the scandal surrounding Volkswagen’s falsified diesel emissions reports, which resulted in the company’s CEO resigning.
“Getting a petrol or diesel engine signed-off in various markets is much more complex than it is for an electric vehicle as you have to meet the emissions standards that are required by each of the markets you sell it in,” Dave Greenwood, an expert in automotive battery technology at Warwick University in the U.K., told International Business Times.
Having gone down the electric car route, Apple’s next big decision would be choosing what type of battery will power everything from the wheels to the in-car infotainment -- and that choice will influence what type of car Apple makes.
Two Choices
When it comes right down to it, Apple has only two options. The first is the easy choice -- pick an off-the-shelf solution, bolt it into Apple's shiny new car and accept the limitations of today’s car battery technology. The second would be to design and build its very own battery technology, which would require an order of magnitude more investment, but could pay off hugely not only for its new car business, but across its entire product range.
An off-the-shelf solution doesn’t sound very much like the Apple way of doing things, but let’s not forget that Apple buys some components from the likes of Samsung, Qualcomm, Sharp and Sony to build its smartphones, so off-the-shelf isn’t alien to Apple.
Greenwood believes that this is the route Apple is most likely to take. “[Find] a tier one supply-chain company who will design and test and warrant that component for them and deliver a big box,” he said.
Now is a great time to be looking for such an off-the-shelf solution. There is currently a global glut of battery manufacturing capability so you have numerous companies fighting to find outlets for their products. “There are big factories set up around the world to manufacture a lot of cells and they are not being utilized so there are good deals to be had,” Greenwood said.
Electric Car Challenges
The reason for this glut of battery cells is simply that electric vehicles are not selling in the numbers expected, and while in the short term it may mean cheaper batteries for Apple, longer term it reflects the company's challenges.
If they are like today's technology, the battery packs that will be powering Apple’s car will comprise two components. The lithium-ion cells and the battery pack into which the cells are placed. These typically come from two different supply chains, and trying to ascertain where Apple will look for suppliers is difficult.
Canadian company Magna International was touted as being a possible supplier to the Apple car, as Foxconn is to the iPhone. In February, the company sold its battery pack business to Samsung SDI, meaning that Apple could once again be dealing with Samsung as a supplier.
'Apple Is Deeply Engaged With Suppliers'
However, there are a number of manufacturers on the market and, at the moment, Panasonic is the market leader, with its 18650 cylindrical cell packs the best one available and being used by Tesla and Audi in their electric cars. But that might all change by the time the first Apple car rolls off the production line.
The Audi E-Tron Quattro is an electric car that uses Panasonic's market-leading battery cells. Photo: Audi
“[Battery development] is a fast moving field from a technology perspective and a cell manufacturer is only really at the top of its game for three to four years maximum, and then another one comes along and usurps it,” Greenwood said.
If Apple opts for using batteries of its own design in its cars, then Greenwood says the fastest development time to go from a blank sheet of paper to having something ready for production would be between two to three years.
With a reported 2019 launch date, Apple still has time to wait and see what technologies emerge, but not that much time. “Given that Apple is new to the [car] business, my guess is that it would be deeply engaged in discussions with suppliers around now -- unless of course they were looking to do something utterly disruptive and actually engineer their own battery chemistry and cell.”
Something Utterly Disruptive
To date, Apple has shied away from really pushing the boundaries when it comes to battery technology in its smartphones, tablets and laptops. It relies on software to eek the most out of batteries that are shrinking to meet the ever thinner profiles of iPhones and iPad. Yes its latest MacBook did something unique when it developed a terraced battery cell, but it has never touched the technology inside the battery cell itself.
To come up with something “utterly disruptive” would require a mammoth effort in terms of resources but also expertise. Hiring the right people to create a bespoke battery technology that no one else has been capable of creating is not going to be easy.
Apple has innovated by cramming more batteries into its products, but has yet to tinker with the technology inside the batteries themselves Photo: Apple
To do so you first need electro-chemists. A search on LinkedIn shows that yes, Apple is hiring electro-chemists, but not for anything related to batteries. Apple is seeking such people to work on its iPad screen technology. Both BMW and Ford are currently recruiting electro-chemists to help them develop new battery technologies, and while Apple may be doing its hiring in secret, it would be tough to keep such an effort under wraps.
Even tougher to hide would be the second stage of developing your own battery technology. While there are a number of companies who might be able to produce batteries to Apple’s design, it’s likely that Apple would need to go down another route.
“Most of the current [battery] manufacturing facilities are set up to manufacture their own chemistries," Greenwood says. "There are a couple of independents that could do that but not in the kind of volumes you would anticipate someone like Apple would need.” If Apple is going down this route and does want to meet a 2019 launch date then it would have to be building such a facility already, and keeping that secret would be much more difficult.
Connectivity And Functionality
The idea of Apple developing a radical new battery technology may sound far-fetched, but should Apple succeed it would benefit the company’s entire product range, and could revolutionize not only the car industry but also the smartphone and tablet industries.
At the end of the day, however, the most probable situation is that Apple will go down the first route and that means that rather than challenging Tesla on range, it will be leveraging its expertise in software and mobile technologies to sell its car based on connectivity and functionality.
Greenwood believes the first Apple car will be more focused on urban and suburban commuting where range doesn’t need to match that of a Tesla. “60 to 100 miles real world range is enough for something like 80 percent of consumers at that point,” he said. This approach would mean that Apple wouldn’t need to invest in a network of charging points as Tesla has done with owners simply plugging their cars in overnight so they can be ready for their iCommute the next morning.
Volkswagen AG halted the sale of some of its car models in Switzerland Friday, as the fallout over its massive emissions scandal continued to unfold.
Swiss authorities announced that they had banned the sale of over 180,000 diesel vehicles in the country that share their make with Volkswagen (VW) cars that were found to deliberately falsify their pollutant emissions.
Authorities also told Reuters that they planned to withdraw approval of all affected models, which include Volkswagen cars as well as those from Audi, Seat, and Skoda, that have been linked to the scandal.
Zurich also announced the creation of a task force to investigate the issue, joining other countries that are seeking to establish the scope of the scandal.
The scandal surrounding the use of the so-called “defeat devices” broke last Friday, when the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) announced that it had found evidence of the cheating.
VW was found to have installed software on several of its diesel vehicles which would deliberately lower the vehicle’s pollutant output when it detected an emissions test being performed. When the car was being driven, it would covertly disable these pollution controls. U.S. officials said that pollutant emissions levels from the affected vehicles were found to be up to 40 times the regulatory limit, and VW has admitted that it equipped about 11 million cars worldwide with the software.
The news from Switzerland came shortly after the appointment of new VW CEO Matthias Mueller. Mueller, the former head of Porsche, replaced former head Martin Winterkorn, who stepped down Wednesday. Winterkorn denied any knowledge of wrongdoing at VW.
After his appointment, Mueller stressed that the top goal for the company was to restore the company’s trust.
"My most urgent task is to win back trust for the Volkswagen Group - by leaving no stone unturned and with maximum transparency, as well as drawing the right conclusions from the current situation," he said in a statement.
The company is facing lawsuits from angry customers, and U.S. authorities have said that it could face up to $18 billion in fines in the U.S. alone. Investigations have also been launched in other countries, including Germany, South Korea and India.
Volkswagen shares plummeted this week with the stock losing over 30 percent of its value since Monday.
TOKYO (Reuters) - Suzuki Motor Corp said it has sold its entire 1.5 percent stake in Volkswagen AG to Porsche Automobil Holding SE and will post a special profit of 36.7 billion yen ($304 million) on the transaction.
The Japanese automaker said on Saturday that it had sold 4,397,000 Volkswagen common shares and that they would be transferred on Sept. 30.
Porsche said on its website that its holding in Volkswagen would increase to 52.2 percent after the transfer.
Suzuki has already bought back a 19.9 percent share of its own stock that Volkswagen was ordered to sell by an international arbitration court last month, ending a long-running dispute between the two after a cooperative agreement between them turned sour.
(Reporting by Osamu Tsukimori; Editing by Edmund Klamann)
Global financial regulators pledged to draft rules by November that will prevent taxpayers from having to bail out struggling financial institutions, according to reports. The announcement of the upcoming rules, which seek to combat banks and other institutions being “too big to fail,” followed a Friday meeting of the Financial Stability Board (FSB), a group of global financial regulators, in London.
The FSB said in a statement that a set of “draft final principles” that would govern the Total Loss-Absorbing Capacity (TLAC) of systemically important international financial institutions, was agreed at Friday's meeting.
The body did not announce a final level that TLAC would be set at. In November 2014, it unveiled a blueprint TLAC rule that would require lenders to have capital and debt equivalent to at least 16 percent to 20 percent of their risk-weighted assets available to take losses, CFO magazine reported.
“Members support consistent implementation, over the appropriate timelines, of this robust minimum standard,” the statement said. The group added that the guidelines for the minimum TLAC standard would be finalized in time for the G20 summit in November.
The tentative agreement came despite strong differences between FSB members. According to Bloomberg, nations, including the U.S. and Germany, have been pushing for the toughest possible rules, while Japan, France and others preferred a softer line.
The largest financial institutions set to be affected by such a move have actively lobbied against the proposals. In a letter to the FSB, Wells Fargo said it was “very concerned” and suggested alternative approaches.
A higher TLAC requirement could force many lenders, especially those most dependent on deposits for funding, to issue billions of dollars worth of new debt. In many countries, however, public anger about the bailouts of financial institutions in the wake of the 2008 financial crash remains high, pressuring officials to take a harder line on the industry.
By Deena Beasley and Vidya L. Nathan
The U.S. Food and Drug Administration on Friday approved Danish drugmaker Novo Nordisk's diabetes drug Tresiba, two years after rejecting the long-acting form of insulin.
The agency also approved the company's Ryzodeg, an injection that combines Tresiba and a fast-acting man-made form of insulin. Novo Nordisk is the world's No. 1 maker of insulin, a hormone normally produced by the pancreas that helps the body use glucose for energy.
Tresiba is already being sold in 30 countries, and analysts expect annual sales of $2.4 billion by 2020, according to Thomson Reuters Cortellis.
"The U.S. market for basal insulin represents over 80 percent of the global market," said Soren Lontoft Hansen, senior analyst at brokerage firm Sydbank. "We expect a positive price reaction on Monday between 5 percent and 10 percent."
The FDA had declined to approve Tresiba in 2013, asking for more data on risks of heart problems from using the drug. 
U.S.-listed shares of Novo Nordisk fell 10 cents to close at $54.93 on Friday.
Hansen said the U.S. approval sets the stage for Novo Nordisk to compete against long-acting insulins Lantus and Toujeo sold by rival Sanofi SA.
Todd Hobbs, chief medical officer for Novo Nordisk in North America, said diabetics using Tresiba can go as long as 42 hours between doses, compared with 18 to 24 hours for Levemir, the company's current long-lasting insulin.
As an ultra-long acting product, Tresiba is sold at a premium to other insulins, but Novo Nordisk said the company has not yet determined a U.S. price for the new insulin.
"We want to do everything we can to make it as affordable and as broad of an access as we can," Hobbs said.
Novo Nordisk said it expects to launch Tresiba in the United States during the first quarter of 2016. A company spokesman said a launch target for Ryzodeg has not yet been determined.
Analysts were confident that the FDA would approve the drug after Novo Nordisk submitted interim test results to the agency earlier this year. The ongoing cardiovascular outcomes trial will likely conclude in mid-2016, Hobbs said.
Friday's FDA approvals include warnings that Tresiba and Ryzodeg should not be used by patients who have high levels of the chemical ketone.
Novo Nordisk earlier on Friday said its new experimental once-weekly diabetes drug, semaglutide, was successful in a late-stage study.
(Additional reporting by Ole Mikkelsen in Copenhagen; Editing by Sriraj Kalluvila and Bill Rigby)
By Tom Bergin
LONDON (Reuters) - U.S consumer magazine Good Housekeeping has retracted its endorsement of a Volkswagen diesel model following the carmaker’s admission that it cheated for years to enable its diesel models meet U.S. regulatory emissions standards.
Following an inquiry from Reuters, the Good Housekeeping Institute, said it had updated a previous recommendation of a Volkswagen 2013 Volkswagen Passat diesel model, saying on its website that: “We would no longer recommend the vehicle as an eco-conscious pick."
Volkswagen’s diesel models won a number of awards in the last decade for being environmentally friendly. These cars achieved high fuel efficiency while producing low emissions of poisonous gases such as nitrous oxide in tests. However, the carmaker admitted this week that these results were achieved by installing “defeat devices” in its cars that fooled test mechanisms.
The Green Car Journal, which awarded VW diesel models a "Green Car of the Year Award" in 2009 and 2010, and the Green Car Reports which named a VW diesel a “Best Car to Buy 2015” award said they were also reviewing their endorsement of the company's vehicles.
(Reporting by Tom Bergin; Editing by Bernard Orr)
By Caroline Valetkevitch
NEW YORK (Reuters) -- The S&P 500 erased an early Fed-driven rally to close down slightly on Friday, as a selloff in biotechs offset gains in banking shares.
The Nasdaq fell 1 percent, while the Nasdaq Biotech Index tumbled 5.1 percent and retested its low from August, when it entered bear market territory.
The Dow ended solidly in positive territory, helped by shares of Nike, which hit a record high after its profit topped expectations on strong China growth. The stock, up 8.9 percent at $125, gave the biggest boost to the Dow and the S&P 500.
The market started the day higher after Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen late Thursday said she and other Fed policymakers do not expect recent economic and financial market turmoil to significantly alter the U.S. central bank's policy, easing concerns about the world's economic health. She said she expects interest rates to be raised this year.
The declines in the biotech index extended this week's drop to 13 percent, its biggest weekly decline in seven years. On Monday, U.S. Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton said she would announce a plan to stop "price gouging" for specialty drugs, sparking a drop in the shares.
The S&P 500 health care index was down 2.7 percent, leading the decline in the S&P 500 while the S&P financial index was up 1.5 percent.
"Biotechs had been an area that had been doing really well so it could be as the market has gotten worse that people are selling stuff that's less painful to sell. Valuations were pretty stretched," said Eric Kuby, chief investment officer at North Star Investment Management Corp. in Chicago.
The Dow Jones industrial average rose 113.35 points, or 0.7 percent, to 16,314.67, the S&P 500 lost 0.9 points, or 0.05 percent, to 1,931.34 and the Nasdaq Composite dropped 47.98 points, or 1.01 percent, to 4,686.50.
Markets have been skittish since last Thursday, when Yellen cited concerns about slowing global growth as a key reason for holding off from a much-anticipated rate hike.
For the week, the Dow was down 0.4 percent, the S&P 500 was down 1.4 percent and the Nasdaq was down 2.9 percent.
Declining issues outnumbered advancing ones on the NYSE by 1,587 to 1,459, for a 1.09-to-1 ratio on the downside; on the Nasdaq, 1,907 issues fell and 920 advanced for a 2.07-to-1 ratio favoring decliners.
The S&P 500 posted six new 52-week highs and 17 new lows; the Nasdaq recorded 41 new highs and 179 new lows.
About 7.2 billion shares changed hands on U.S. exchanges, compared with the 7.4 billion daily average for the past 20 trading days, according to Thomson Reuters data.
(Additional reporting by Tanya Agrawal in Bengaluru, additional reporting by Abhiram Nandakumar; Editing by Savio D'Souza and James Dalgleish)
By Jonathan Spicer and Ann Saphir
AMHERST, Massachussets/SAN FRANCISCO (Reuters) -- Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen is back in Washington on Friday, a day after receiving emergency medical attention following a speech during which she appeared to lose concentration and which she struggled to finish.
A Fed spokesperson would not comment on whether Yellen planned to see a doctor for a follow up check-up, and would not comment on her health beyond last night’s statement that she had felt dehydrated after speaking for nearly an hour at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst.
Yellen, 69, who received medical assistance in a private room offstage, later attended a dinner with the university’s chancellor and other special guests. She appeared fine and was talkative, according to one person at the dinner. A Fed spokesperson said Yellen felt fine after the incident.
Yellen is the most powerful figure in world finance and her health scare came at a key time for the Fed, which has been debating raising interest rates for the first time in nearly a decade. The speech was Yellen's first since last week's Fed decision to delay a much-anticipated rate "lift-off."
After the speech, during which Yellen appeared to lose focus, repeating some words and slowing down, the Fed chief was seen by the university's emergency team and later carried on with her schedule.
"If you ask me, is it concerning, I think it is concerning," said Dr. Andrew Stemer, an assistant professor of neurology and radiology at Georgetown University School of Medicine.
But he added it was hard to offer a diagnosis without lab tests, an exam or medical history: "I want to be cautious about speculating on things that I can't know...I'm sure she’s getting excellent care and that her physicians are working this up."
U.S. presidents typically receive more exhaustive checks.
In 2014 President Barack Obama was admitted to hospital after a persistent sore throat and had a CT scan. President George W. Bush, who fainted in 2002 after choking on a pretzel, was checked out by a White House nurse and doctor, while his father was cleared by two assigned physicians to carry on with a Japan trip in 1992 after throwing up at a Tokyo dinner.
Fed chairs typically do not travel with medical staff. Instead they are accompanied by a security detail and at least one public relations handler, as Yellen did in Amherst on Thursday and Friday. Security officials conducted a 20-minute sweep of the university auditorium before the event, and they were on hand as she departed later.
St. Louis Fed President James Bullard said the central bank was well prepared in case its chief for some reason could not carry on performing her or his duties.
The Fed "has a lot of talented people so we would be able to carry on very well if there were serious problems," Bullard told reporters on Friday. "This was reviewed very carefully after 9/11 and we started getting better as an organization and we reviewed that thoroughly and those plans are basically in place."
Were a Fed chair to become incapacitated, the vice chair -- former Bank of Israel chief Stanley Fischer -- would take over the Board of Governors. Depending on how long the Fed chair was away, William Dudley, head of the New York Fed and vice chair of the Federal Open Market Committee, would temporarily chair the policy-setting committee pending a vote of the committee.
"It might be a little nerve-wracking for financial markets if that were to occur, but I think the fact that Fischer is well-known and well-respected could limit how much volatility a succession event would cause," said Michael Feroli, JPMorgan's chief U.S. economist and a former Fed staffer. "Yellen and Fischer have been reared in the same intellectual tradition, so the differences in leadership should not be too large."
(Reporting Julie Steenhuysen, Howard Schneider, Jonathan Spicer and Megan Cassella; Editing by Tomasz Janowski)
Volkswagen ( VOWG_p.DE ) named company veteran Matthias Mueller as its chief executive on Friday as the German carmaker struggles to come to grips with a crisis over rigged diesel emission tests that its chairman called "a moral and political disaster."
After a marathon board meeting at its headquarters in Wolfsburg, the world's biggest automaker said Mueller, the 62-year-old head of its Porsche sports car division, would replace Martin Winterkorn, who resigned as CEO on Wednesday.
As Mueller took the helm, however, Germany's transport minister announced the car maker had manipulated test results for about 2.8 million vehicles in the country, nearly six times as many as it has admitted to falsifying in the United States, pointing to cheating on a bigger scale than previously thought.
Volkswagen, for generations a model of German engineering prowess, is under huge pressure to take decisive action over the biggest business-related scandal in its 78-year history.
"Under my leadership, Volkswagen will do all it can to develop and implement the strictest compliance and governance standards in the whole industry," Mueller said in a statement.
The company said it would appoint a U.S. law firm to conduct a full investigation, suspend an unspecified number of staff and adopt a more decentralized structure with a slimmed down management board.
But the scandal keeps growing. German transport minister Alexander Dobrindt said on Thursday Volkswagen had also cheated tests in Europe, where its sales are much higher than in the United States. On Friday Dobrindt put the number of affected vehicles in Germany at 2.8 million.
Regulators and prosecutors across the world are investigating the scandal, while customers and investors are launching lawsuits.
The wider car market has been rocked too, with manufacturers fearing a drop in sales of diesel cars and tougher testing.
Regulators in Europe and the United States said on Friday they would take a harder line on enforcing compliance with pollution standards and would be less tolerant of gaps between real world emissions and laboratory results.
Volkswagen said on Tuesday 11 million vehicles worldwide were fitted with the software that allowed it to cheat U.S. tests, while adding it was not turned on in the bulk of them.
Customers and motor dealers are furious that Volkswagen has yet to say which models and construction years are affected, and whether it will have to recall any cars for refits.
THE RIGHT MAN?
The task facing Mueller is enormous, with the latest issue of influential German weekly Der Spiegel showing pall-bearers carrying a Volkswagen car decked out as a coffin under the headline "The Suicide."
"His appointment is a step towards cleaning-up," said LBBW analyst Frank Biller about Mueller, a former head of product strategy close to the Piech-Porsche family that controls Volkswagen.
But Henning Gebhardt, global head of equity at Deutsche Asset & Wealth Management, said Volkswagen had missed an opportunity.
"He won't be able to lead the company for 10 years due to his age alone. That means there will be discussions about succession in the foreseeable future again," he said.
Bernstein analyst Max Warburton also questioned whether a man who has spent more than three decades at the company was the right man to signal a break with the past.
He urged "big and bold action," saying the new CEO should offer to buy back and scrap almost 500,000 diesel cars sold in the United States, which would cost about $6 billion.
Volkswagen said sales chief Christian Klingler would leave the company, but that U.S. head Michael Horn -- also widely tipped to go -- would stay.
Acting Chairman Berthold Huber apologized to "our customers, the public, authorities and investors" and asked them to give Volkswagen a chance to make good on the damage from the emissions scandal.
"I want to be very clear, the manipulation of tests for diesel engines is a moral and political disaster," Huber said.
Volkswagen will hold an extraordinary shareholder meeting on Nov. 9 in Berlin to approve its proposed changes.
Frank Schellenberg, a taxi driver in Wolfsburg where the carmaker employs around 70,000 people, said locals felt betrayed and feared the worst.
"They have lost any contact with the real world, the customers who have been buying their cars in good faith," he said, pointing to the firm's 13-story administrative building. "Everyone in Wolfsburg is expecting tough times and job cuts."
(Additional reporting by Reuters bureaus in Europe, Asia and Americas; Writing by Mark Potter; Editing by Timothy Heritage and Gareth Jones)
U.S. stocks perked up Friday, a day after Federal Reserve Board Chair Janet Yellen said in a speech that an interest rate hike is still likely in 2015. But buried in her 40-page speech were notes that could perk up ordinary wage-earners as well.
Yellen’s overall message hasn't changed significantly since she announced more than a week ago that the Fed would hold off on a rate increase: “Prospects for the U.S. economy generally appear solid,” Yellen said Thursday. But the takeaway for ordinary wage-earning Americans was considerably more nuanced, reflecting the tenuous state of the recovery for working America.
In her talk Thursday, a prolonged lecture on inflation rate theory at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst, Yellen emphasized that the lagging inflation rate of the past several years was due for a pickup. Economists watch for slight rises in inflation as signals that economic engines are running too hot.
Indeed, economic data have been mostly positive. Employers added more than 210,000 jobs a month this year and the headline unemployment rate is at a respectable 5.1 percent. According to the latest revisions, gross domestic product grew at a healthy 3.9 percent in the second quarter.
But core inflation, excluding volatile food and energy prices, is about 1.5 percent below the Fed’s 2 percent target. The continued sluggishness, Yellen said, owed primarily to the dollar’s 15 percent appreciation in the last year combined with low energy prices.
The picture is further complicated by a relative lack of wage gains since the recovery began. Wages tend to pick up when the labor market is full and employers have to compete for new hires. But since 2010, wage gains have come in well below the 3.5 percent year-to-year growth that economists see in line with rising inflation. 

Yellen has said that the conundrum of anemic wage growth derives in part from remaining slack in the labor market; though headline unemployment rates have come down to healthy levels, the “real” unemployment rate -- including reluctant part-timers and those who have given up on finding a job -- stands at over 10 percent.
But on Thursday Yellen elaborated how the Fed sees wages tying in with the broader economy. She dismissed the effect wage gains have on inflation, arguing that one no longer necessarily followed the other.
“In the past, wages provided a good empirical indicator of the future direction of price inflation,” Yellen explained in a footnote. As employers responded to pressures to pay workers more, companies would respond by increasing prices.
But that era in the American economy is over. “The wage-price spiral no longer seems to provide a useful description of the U.S. inflation process,” Yellen said.
For those looking into the economic tea leaves for an indication of when wages will start to rise, Yellen’s message is: patience. According to her model, inflation will likely arrive sometime in 2016 -- before any accelerated wage growth. By that time, it’s likely the Fed will have raised rates.
So why is inflation so low? Low energy prices and a strong dollar have helped keep consumer goods and imports cheap, Yellen said. The impact that slack in the labor market might have, according to her model, has diminished to a sliver. The green box in the chart below shows the negative impact that labor market slack has on inflation -- easily outdone by the effect of moves in oil and the greenback.
Many economists consider 5 percent to be near the threshold of the natural rate of unemployment, at which point inflation starts to rise. But Yellen included a telling caveat in her prepared remarks: “The current difference between the unemployment rate and its normal longer-run level likely understates the actual amount of slack that remains in the labor market,” she said, estimating that if the unemployment floor did not coincide with Fed predictions, slack might play a larger role in the inflation picture.
Thousands of women who received an implant to render themselves sterile have filed complaints about debilitating stomach pain and severe bleeding with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration since the device's approval in 2002. Concern among regulators and patient advocates about the safety of the product, called  Essure, is reaching a turning point as the U.S. Senate prepares to consider legislation this fall that would hasten the process by which the FDA reviews and certifies medical devices.
On Thursday, an FDA panel questioned the agency's prudence in reviewing safety data for the Essure device after hearing testimony from patients and experts who complained of persistent abdominal discomfort, allergic reactions and botched insertions. Essure, which was developed by a subsidiary of Bayer, is a small metallic coil that is placed in the fallopian tubes. Its presence causes fibrous scar tissue to develop around it, forming a physical barrier to prevent sperm from reaching eggs.
The device offers women a nonsurgical permanent form of birth control if they do not wish to undergo surgery for a tubal ligation. The FDA hastened the approval of Essure through an "Investigational Device Exemption" because it was the first device to provide a nonsurgical option for sterilization. Under that exemption, the agency permitted Bayer to submit data from a clinical trial that was not randomized or controlled for review. The FDA customarily grants priority review and accelerated approval for “breakthrough” treatments that serve unmet medical needs. This year, the agency published new draft guidance for such exemptions and released data showing approvals happened 341 days faster in 2014 than in 2011 on average and that most priority devices are now approved in abbreviated trials.
“You can empathize with people who want things faster, particularly when it's a serious or life-threatening condition or there's unmet medical need,”  Dr. Aaron Kesselheim, a primary care physician and expert on the drug approval process at Harvard University’s Brigham and Women’s Hospital in Boston, says. “It's not clear to me in this case that either of those features exist. There are plenty of other birth control options.”
How Safe Is The Fast Lane? 
Last spring, medical device manufacturers pushed hard to persuade the House to pass the 21st Century Cures Act, legislation that in part aims to expedite the process by which the FDA reviews and approves medical devices. The legislation makes two key changes that could help companies earn faster approval at a lower cost. 
First, it permits companies seeking approval for high-risk devices such as pacemakers and artificial joints to submit case histories or peer-reviewed studies rather than conduct large and expensive clinical trials to verify the safety and efficacy of their product. Second, it allows device manufacturers to pay another company to review and approve changes it makes to a device after it is already on the market.
Supporters say the legislation will spur innovation by reducing the cost of creating new devices, and grant patients earlier access to important treatments. They also point to the fact that the bill would bring a five-year $8.75 billion boost in research funding for the National Institutes of Health that has broad support, saying this funding is critical to the future strength of the medical device and pharmaceutical industries.
"It's going to provide a smoother process for getting these drugs into the hands of patients but I think it's going to do that without sacrificing safety for patients and families," Jessica Crawford, president of a trade group called MedTech that represents medical technology companies in New York, says. "When you look at the FDA, it is the gold standard for drug approval and device safety across the world."
Stephen Ubl, president of a nationwide organization of medical device manufacturers called AdvaMed, commended the House shortly after the bill’s passage. AdvaMed declined to comment for this story. 
“The bill includes a number of proposals designed to strengthen the innovation ecosystem and support the development of life-saving, life-enhancing medical technology,” Ubl said in a statement. ”This includes key improvements to FDA’s premarket program for medical devices – most significantly the establishment of an expedited pathway for breakthrough, innovative technologies – which will increase the efficiency, predictability and transparency of the agency’s review process and improve patient access to the best in medical progress.”
'A Collection Of Anecdotes Is Not Data'
But Kesselheim is concerned that both measures also will compromise patient safety and lead to more concerns like those that have recently emerged about Essure. He says case histories and studies do not provide sufficient evidence for the FDA to evaluate the adequacy of a new device. Kesselheim and other critics also argue that letting a company pay another company to review changes to its product presents a clear conflict of interest.
“If you pull together 100 cases, that doesn't make it scientifically valid. A collection of anecdotes is not data,” he says. “These are characteristics of high-quality trials -- controls, blinding, randomization. Case studies have none of those characteristics.”  
Crawford is confident in the FDA's commitment to maintain a rigorous review process and says the Cures Act has far-reaching benefits, from producing new devices to generating jobs in states such as New York that are home to medical device manufacturers and pharmaceutical companies. 
"I think at the end of the day, this is going to support more research and development for companies," she says. "This has been carefully looked at and examined because we know how important drugs and devices are to people's lives."
In the case of Essure, the FDA panel requested that Bayer and the agency conduct new studies about the product’s safety – data that Richard Chappell, a panel member and biostatistician from the University of Wisconsin, said should have been available more than a dozen years ago. 
Auto regulators are now on the offensive after being deceived by Volkswagen for years. They announced a response Friday to the company’s stunning admission that it systematically cheated on emissions tests from 2009 to 2015. In a letter to automakers, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency said it will bolster testing procedures to detect so-called defeat devices like the ones Volkswagen used to shut down pollution control systems outside of testing conditions.
Jesse Prentice-Dunn, a policy analyst at the Sierra Club, applauds the move. But he says “long-term” fixes are still needed. “The testing regime needs to be revamped.”
Critics have long said as much. Under the current testing system, automakers in the United States conduct their own examinations and report the data to federal officials. The EPA, meanwhile, conducts spot checks, but its resources are stretched thin.
Dan Becker is the director of the safe climate campaign at the Center for Auto Safety. For companies to respect emissions standards, he says, officials need to remove the tests from private hands and transfer them to labs with federal supervision. “Right now, you’ve got the foxes in control of the chicken coop, and that’s never going to be a good show.”
In an ideal world, Becker says, automakers would simply follow the law. But in the last few decades, companies have shown a remarkable penchant for gaming the standards, and the current structure of the testing system makes it exceedingly easy to do so.
“If these companies were being honest, we wouldn’t need an elaborate system to make sure they don’t cheat,” he said. “But they’ve proven that they do cheat.” Not just Volkswagen -- but “virtually every major automaker,” he asserted.
A History Of Gaming The System
It started in the 1970s, just after the EPA was created and began to regulate auto emissions under the Clean Air Act. Volkswagen, in fact, was among the first to equip its cars with defeat devices to override emissions control systems. In 1973, it confessed to installing them on 25,000 cars. The following year, Chrysler was forced to recall more than 800,000 cars after it was found to have installed a similar device in radiators.
The 1990s saw a couple of major scandals. In 1995, General Motors settled with the Justice Department and the EPA for $45 million, acknowledging it installed a computer chip in 500,000 Cadillacs that tripled the amount of carbon monoxide output when the cars’ heating and cooling systems were running. Three years later, Caterpillar, Mack Trucks and Volvo Trucks reached a similar settlement, worth $1 billion, for equipping trucks with defeat devices.
Welding robots are seen in a production line of the Golf VII car at the Volkswagen plant in Wolfsburg, Germany, in 2013.  Photo: Reuters/Fabian Bimmer
Kia and Hyundai followed suit more recently. Last November, the South Korean corporations copped to overstating fuel economy standards on 1.2 million cars from 2010 and 2012, settling with the Justice Department and the EPA for $300 million.
A representative for the Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers, a trade group that represents automakers operating in the United States, declined to comment.
What Is To Be Done?
The Sierra Club’s Prentice-Dunn says one path to reform could simply be to increase the number of spot checks. Indeed, Christopher Grundler, director of the EPA’s Office of Transportation and Air Quality, recently told the Associated Press that the agency may soon do this.
Grundler was less forthcoming about the EPA’s plans to enhance detection of defeat devices -- the subject of Friday’s letter to automakers. On a call with reporters, he wouldn’t say what changes the agency is enacting to audit lab results submitted by car companies.
“They don’t need to know,” he said, of the automakers. “They only need to know that we will be keeping their cars a little bit longer, and we’re going to driving them more.”
Becker says more oversight is a good step, but regulators need to go further by eliminating their reliance on companies’ test data altogether.
“This is an industry that has proven it’s not trustworthy,” said Becker. “The EPA shouldn’t trust them when they say, ‘our vehicles meet your standards, everything’s just peachy keen.’ The government needs to set up a better testing system and not rely on the auto companies’ assertions.”
He’s not sure exactly how that would look -- whether it would be in-house or conducted at independent labs with federal supervision -- either way, he says, it would need to be firmly outside the control of companies. Taxpayers, in theory, could cover a portion of the cost, but companies should be forced to foot most of the bill.
Congressional Republicans, who have made frequent targets of the EPA, would likely oppose such a plan. Since 2010, the agency has seen its budget decline by a fifth, or about $2 billion. Earlier this month, 20 Republican members of Congress filed articles of impeachment against Gina McCarthy, head of the agency.
Luke Tonachel, director of clean vehicles and fuels at the Natural Resources Defense Council, says all this makes it harder for the agency to do its job. “If the EPA’s resources are constantly under attack, it’s only gonna be harder for them go out and catch the cheaters.”
Even before Volkswagen Group was hit with what could turn out to be one of the costliest automotive recalls in history, the world’s largest automaker was a relatively small player in the United States, the world’s second-largest and most profitable automotive market. The company's rivals have been selling pickup trucks, sedans and SUVs as fast as they can make them amid historically high demand from car-crazy Americans, but Volkswagen has sputtered along like a battered, old Beetle.
Now that the German maker of Volkswagen hatchbacks, Audi SUVs and Porsche sports cars has been hit with a crippling scandal involving the deception of customers and emissions regulators, whatever gains Volkswagen has been able to squeeze out this year in the U.S. seem likely to be more than wiped out as customers see the Volkswagen name splayed across headlines next to words like “scandal,” “Dieselgate” and “guilty.”

“It’s going to be a rough rest of the year for them, and obviously into 2016,” said Akshay Anand, senior analyst at Kelley Blue Book. “I’ll be surprised if they come close to their sales from last year. For consumers, there are plenty of alternatives to what Volkswagen is offering.”
On the upside: Consumers might find enticing offers for specific non-diesel Volkswagen sedans in the coming months, he added. “But don't expect a $20,000 Jetta suddenly going out the door for $13,000.”Most of the world’s automakers will report their U.S. September sales figures on Oct. 1. U.S. consumers likely purchased about 1.4 million new cars, pickup trucks and SUVs in September for an estimated seasonally adjusted annualized rate of around 17.6 million, according to forecasts from automotive sales data providers Kelley Blue Book and Edmunds.com.Ford is likely leading September sales on strong demand for its F-Series trucks, Transit vans and line of SUVs, while South Korean sibling automakers Hyundai and Kia will benefit from demand for sedans from fleet buyers, like car rental agencies.
“Volkswagen’s deception is dominating headlines, but it is not keeping shoppers away from other brands’ showrooms,” said Jessica Caldwell, Edmunds.com director of industry analysis. “It puts the crisis in a little bit of perspective, since these Volkswagen diesels don't constitute a very big share of sales."
Automakers with newer SUVs and pickup trucks, like Ford, have been faring better than automakers that depended on sedans, like Honda. But every major automaker is expected to grow sales this month compared to last year, most of them in the double digits — except for Volkswagen, which may have seen sales drop 2 percent compared to the same month last year.

Volkswagen admitted on Sunday that it placed code in its small clean-diesel engine calibration software that enabled exhaust cleaning mechanisms only when the vehicles were undergoing emissions-compliance testing. In regular driving operations, the exhaust scrubbing would deactivate in order to boost fuel economy and performance. With the cleaning process disabled, the cars emit up to 40 times the legal amount of nitrogen oxides permitted under U.S. federal and state emissions standards. The greenhouse gas not only contributes to global warming but also is a key component in urban ozone pollution, a proven public health risk.The cars in question are the diesel versions of the 2009-14 Jetta, Beetle and Golf, the 2014-15 Passat and the 2009-15 Audi A3. As many as 11 million cars worldwide could be affected, including 482,000 in the United States. Though the company has yet to issue a recall, Volkswagen has ordered dealers in the U.S. not to sell the diesel cars involved in the deception. Volkswagen AG (FRA:VOW) shares were down 3.28 percent to 115.68 euros ($129.38) as news the company’s emissions-cheating shenanigans spread to Europe, where Volkswagen’s diesel cars are far more popular.

The timing of the Labor Day holiday, one of the most important sales events of the year for dealers, boosted September numbers this year. Last year, Labor Day sales were booked in August.
Despite the loss of some sales to September, August’s numbers were the best in a decade, showing that consumers are confident enough with their situations to take out auto loans to fuel this boom. Total U.S. new-auto deliveries have been strong enough this month to keep the year’s total U.S. new vehicle sales on track for an unprecedented seventh consecutive year of growth, around 17.5 million, up from a decadeslong low of 10.4 million in 2010 amid the global economic crisis.Interest rates will likely begin to rise before the end of the year, but many in the auto industry expect it won’t have a measurable impact on demand for auto loans until rates are increased throughout 2016, or the U.S. economy takes a turn for the worse. U.S. consumer confidence spurred by increasing home prices and lower unemployment has urged Americans to flock to dealerships. Historically low interest rates, a steady subprime lending market, and lenders’ willingness to extend financing to as much as 84 months have also helped spur consumption.
A consensus has emerged on Wall Street that the resignation of House Speaker John Boehner, R-Ohio, lowers the odds of a government shutdown. When Congress meets to pass a “clean” budget extension -- free of controversial language defunding Planned Parenthood --analysts predict it won't vote to cut off the operational funds that fuel the federal government. Even so, the likelihood increased of a grinding debt ceiling showdown come December.
“In the (very) short term, this is a positive,” wrote Guggenheim Securities analyst Chris Krueger in a note to clients Friday, lowering the firm’s estimated odds of a shutdown from 30 percent to 15 percent.
Analysts from Deutsche Bank and Goldman Sachs predicted that Boehner’s departure made it more likely the government would be functioning come October. “In our view, this significantly reduces the probability of a government shutdown next week,” the Goldman note read, calling Boehner’s decision “a strong signal that he plans to bring the clean extension up for a vote despite opposition from House conservatives.”
Boehner was facing stiff pressure from Tea Party-aligned Republican colleagues for his leadership position. His resignation clears the way for a new leader and potentially eases the passage of a budget deal with Democrats by Sept. 30. GOP Rep. David Jolly told the Washington Post that the “small victory” of Boehner’s resignation would make a shutdown “a lot less likely.”
It’s not just the markets that see Boehner’s exit as a positive sign for avoiding a shutdown. Governance experts have largely reduced their odds of a shutdown as well. A panel of experts convened by the Washington Post agreed that the probability had fallen significantly with Boehner on his way out.
“He took a bullet for the country,” Steve Bell, economic policy director at the Bipartisan Policy Center, told the Post.
But the risk of a shutdown returns in December when the upcoming funding bill runs out. “We are increasing our odds from a 10% probability to a 25% probability of some kind of accident that would keep Congress from raising the debt ceiling in time,” Krueger wrote.
As Wall Street watches the Federal Reserve carefully for signs it will begin raising rock-bottom interest rate benchmarks, the economic impact of a government shutdown loom large. The combination of lost wages of furloughed employees and diminished federal purchases could deliver a sucker punch to an economy on the mend.
The Bureau of Economic Analysis estimated that the 16-day government shutdown of 2013, which saw 800,000 employees furloughed, had a 0.3 percent impact on gross domestic product.
The Volkswagen scandal has shaken the automotive world. It all started with two men: Peter Mock and John German. The pair worked with West Virginia University to try to show that clean emissions tech doesn't necessarily affect automotive performance. Instead, they discovered that the chosen cars were pumping 40 times more emissions into the air than they were supposed to. They submitted their findings to the California Air Resources Board and the federal Environmental Protection Agency.
This week, German, senior fellow at the International Council on Clean Transportation, suddenly became one of the key figures in a story about how the global car manufacturer had cheated on EPA emissions tests. The shocking revelations have had widespread impact on the industry and started an international conversation on emissions testing. They also cost Volkswagen CEO Martin Winterkorn his job. Here, German speaks to International Business Times about how Volkswagen got away with it, the wider implications, and what happens next.
International Business Times: Now, as I understand it, Volkswagen was using a "defeat device" to measure the conditions of the car, but this wasn't actually a device. It was a piece of software, correct? What was that software measuring for?
John German: We don't know. You are correct it is software, it has to do with the computer looking for the conditions under which test procedure was conducted, and if it detects the conditions, the emission controls behave the way they were designed. But if it does not detect those conditions, it switches to a different control where it reduces the effect of the system. The specifics as to how they reduce effectiveness, though, we don't know. There's quite a number of ways they could detect how they could see that the car was being tested.
IBT: Who could have known about this?
German: One aspect that's really interesting is that we turned data and report over to CARB and the EPA back in May 2014 and they discussed the problems with Volkswagen. Then in December 2014, Volkswagen issued a field fix, and they reflashed the computers in the cars to install the field fix. A few months later they assessed, and found the defeat device was still in the field fix. That is incomprehensible to me, so the interpretation is that this was only a relatively small part of the company.
IBT: Is this something that's ever happened before?
German: There have been a number of other defeat device cases. The best-known case was in the late 1990s with heavy-duty engine manufacturers, ones for really big freight trucks. They did something similar; they were concerned with driving long distances. So they looked for a steady state highway speed for more than x mins, after which they would change calibrations, pushing the NOx up. 
IBT: But I'm assuming before they didn't have as advanced computers and electronics. How did they control it before?
German: The systems were simpler. Before NOx after treatment, it was all in calibration. One example of this was what's known as exhaust gas recirculation. That was the first step of control. You could put in one of those to reduce NOx, but it would also increase fuel consumption, so you could switch it off.
IBT: When will we find out what Volkswagen was doing? Are we talking more in months or years?
German: We will only find out if CARB or EPA reveal it. It might be part of the settlement with Volkswagen, as part of the legal agreement. There is a good chance that the EPA will release the info, but we're probably talking more in months. At this stage, though, it's definitely in Volkswagen's interest to get it fixed and behind them as fast as possible.
IBT: Could we conduct tests to find out for ourselves how Volkswagen were doing this?
German: Maybe. It would be difficult. The kind of time and expertise it takes to reverse-engineer calibrations ... these computers are really powerful and complex, and it would take a large amount of time and expertise.
IBT: But we know the car was looking for certain conditions. What are these conditions they could have been measuring for?
German: There are several factors. On an official test the non-drive wheels don't spin, the front wheels do not turn. The test is run at a consistent ambient temperature. It's always run with a cold engine, and the test has a defined speed trace, i.e. the speed for each second. Volkswagen could have looked for any of those.
IBT: Thank you for your time, this has been very interesting. Is there anything else you wanted to say about this that you don't think we covered?
German: The main point is that governments need to do a better job of oversight and enforcement. Worldwide, in China, India, Brazil ... the primary lesson is that there needs to be better oversight and more data.
While the climate change reduction plan expected from Chinese President Xi Jinping will certainly be a landmark moment for the country and the world, whether the accord will be effective in reining in greenhouse gas emissions from the world’s largest global warming polluter remains uncertain. Xi is expected to commit his nation to a “green dispatch” climate change program at a joint press conference Friday afternoon with U.S. President Barack Obama that will begin in 2017.
The program will limit and tax China’s emission of greenhouse gases by creating a price incentive for businesses to use power generated through more environmentally sustainable methods. The hope is that by taxing businesses for over-pollution, the country can reduce its carbon footprint
But enacting reforms on paper and actually implementing climate-change-reducing measures in the country may be two very different things.
“You can envision there’s a lot of political and technical challenges ahead,” Ranping Song, the developing country climate action manager for the World Resources Institute in Washington, told the New York Times. “There’s no guarantee that this will go smoothly.
“Even if it’s national coverage,” Song added, “it will take time, a few years, for the government to ramp up its efforts.”
But the fact that Xi is making the announcement and making it in Washington suggests that this accord could have real teeth. ”This coming from the head of state, Xi, gives more confidence that this is going to be fairly significant and is a lot less likely to be watered down,” Song said in the interview.
In addition to enforcing the reforms, there also is the matter of ensuring that the mechanisms for pollution credit trading are in place and attractive to businesses. Obama and Xi made an agreement in December to limit global warming emissions in their respective countries, with the U.S. pledging to emit 26 to 28 percent less carbon in 2025 than it did in 2005 and China pledging to reach peak carbon emissions by 2030 or sooner. But the pilot programs in place in China have, so far, not gotten off to the best start, experts said.
“The trading systems aren’t very active,” Pang Jun, a professor in Renmin University’s environmental department, told the Wall Street Journal. “It’s not like a vegetable market, with people buying and selling. It’s not very lively. There aren’t a lot of transactions.”
Xi pledged that clean energy sources, like solar power and windmills, would account for 20 percent of China’s total energy production by 2030. And while China is home to the world’s top three solar panel manufacturers as well as six of the 10 manufacturers in the world, as ranked by IHS, getting businesses to roll back their reliance on cheap fossil fuels may prove difficult.
Another major challenge for the cap-and-trade program will be deciding just who gets to pollute how much. The way emissions permits are doled out will help determine their price, Pang said, which will play a major role in how likely business owners are to voluntarily make use of the program. Right now China is giving the credits out for free. That’s basically a nonstarter, said Greenpeace climate and energy campaigner Li Yan, according to the Wall Street Journal.
“If the price is too low then it’s not strong enough signal for polluters to take action,” Li said.
That’s why the biggest hurdle China has to cross is still largely to come. Getting a buy-in from businesses in word and deed will be the key. “If there are companies secretly emitting and not getting caught, then the whole system won’t work,” Pang said. “It will all be a fake.”
U.S. stocks were trading up Friday, following positive momentum from Europe as traders digested remarks by U.S. Fed Chair Janet Yellen Thursday night. Positive U.S. economic growth data released before markets opened also helped boost Wall Street confidence.
Yellen said in a speech in Massachusetts that it’s likely the Fed will begin increasing interest rates before the end of the year for the first time in nearly a decade. The U.S. Commerce Department said Friday that U.S. gross domestic product increased at an annualized rate of 3.9 percent, above expectations of 3.7 percent growth.
“Consumer demand is running at a healthy pace, driven by job and income growth,” Guy Lebas, chief fixed-income strategist at Janney Montgomery Scott in Philadelphia, told Bloomberg. “The expansion continues in 2015.” Consumer spending and construction activity helped lift the economy in the April-to-June quarter. Household purchases are expected to continue at a robust pace as gas prices remain low, hiring picks up and home prices rise.
The Dow Jones Industrial Average (INDEXDJX:.DJI) gained 169.10, or 1.04 percent, to 16,370 Friday morning. The Standard & Poor's 500 index (INDEXSP:.INX) rose 13.35 points, or 0.69 percent, to 1,946. The Nasdaq composite (INDEXNASDAQ:.IXIC) increased 31.20 points, or 0.65 percent, to 4,765.
Nine out of 10 major sectors were in the green Friday morning, with utilities down slightly. Financial and consumer goods stocks led sector gains in early trading. Nike Inc (NYSE:NKE) gained more than 7 percent after the world’s largest athletic footwear maker beat revenue estimates in its latest quarterly earnings report released after markets on Thursday. The company said customers accepted higher prices and it saw improvement in Chinese sales.
Digital payment processor Paypal Holdings Inc (NASDAQ:PYPL) got a lift by a positive Buy rating from Canaccord while tech firm 3M Co (NYSE:MMM) was boosted by a Credit Suisse upgrade from Neutral to Outperform. Apple Inc. (NASDAQ:AAPL) stock jumped 1.01 percent in early trading as the new iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s hit stores today.
Main Asian stock markets gained, led by a 1.76 percent rise of Tokyo’s Nikkei 225 after hitting a two-week low on Friday, dragged down by the Volkswagen emissions-cheating scandal that spread concern to Japanese automotive parts suppliers. Japanese stocks were lifted by news manufacturing activity expanded in Septmeber. Oracle Corporation Japan (TYO:4716) led Japanese tech company gains after the information technology’s U.S. parent reported strong earnings for the June-August quarter. Hong Kong’s Hang Seng closed gained 0.43 percent while the mainland’s Shanghai Composite Index gained dropped 1.6 percent after starting the trading session in the green on speculation President Xi Jinping's state visit would help boost technology exports.
Europe’s major indexes continued to rally toward the end of the trading day after climbing sharply early in the day as concerns over the health of the global economy was calmed by Fed Chair Yellen’s comments. . France’s CAC 40 led European markets with a 3.88 percent rise while Germany’s DAX and London’s FTSE 100 were both up 2.94 percent and 2.51 percent, respectively.A selloff in European automotive stocks earlier in the week spurred investors to buy on the dips. Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (FRA:BMW), the world’s largest luxury automaker, gained 4.16 percent Friday afternoon in Frankfurt, a day after concerns Volkswagen’s emissions-cheating scandal would spread to other automakers led investors to dump BMW stock on Thursday. Mercedes-Benz maker Daimler AG (FRA:DAI) saw a similar bounce as the week’s trading was winding down in Europe. France’s
Oil prices were boosted by positive market momentum on Friday. West Texas Intermediate crude, the benchmark for U.S. oil prices on the New York Mercantile Exchange, gained 1.43 percent to $45.55 per barrel for November delivery. On the London ICE Futures Exchange, Brent crude for November advanced 0.60 percent to $48.46 a barrel.
UPDATE: 3 p.m. EDT -- Jeb Bush spokeswoman Allie Brandenburger said that during the candidate's stop in South Carolina, he discussed policies that she said "foster opportunity for everyone."  
"Jeb is  running a campaign that will not cede any issue, voter or demographic group because he has a vision for the future that can unite Americans behind restoring people’s ability to rise up and achieve their dreams," Brandenburger said.
Original story: 
Some people were not happy after presidential candidate Jeb Bush told a group in South Carolina Thursday night that Republicans can win more African-American voters with a message of positivity than with one that promises “free stuff.” The remarks, reported first by the  Washington Post, echoed those by Mitt Romney in 2012 that sparked criticism at the time.
Bush’s campaign event Thursday drew a largely white audience, according to the  New York Times, and his comments came in response to a question about how he would appeal to African-American voters. The phrase “free stuff” was trending on Twitter Friday morning and had been transformed into a hashtag as many tweeted and commented angrily in response to Bush’s remarks. 
Singer John Legend tweeted early Friday about Bush’s wealthy upbringing:
It&#39;s always the guys born on 3rd base talking about black people lining up for free stuff. https://t.co/d0MelBqsSK
&mdash; John Legend (@johnlegend) September 25, 2015
A second tweet criticized the former Florida governor’s tax policies.

Jeb Bush, born into wealth and power, fighting to abolish the estate tax and make sure black people don&#39;t ask for shit.
&mdash; John Legend (@johnlegend) September 25, 2015
Many others took to Twitter to express their frustration with Bush's comments, including Ta-Nehisi Coates, a staff writer for The Atlantic, who said he thought Bush’s strategy was not one that would appeal to African-American voters.

GOP outreach to African-Americans, is mostly just outreach to white Americans who don&#39;t like being called racist. http://t.co/r6Py4opUJO
&mdash; Ta-Nehisi Coates (@tanehisicoates) September 25, 2015
Jelani Cobb, a professor at University of Connecticut and a staff writer for the New Yorker, also sent out a long stream of tweets about Bush’s remarks.

“Jeb Bush plans to win black votes by not offering us "free stuff" — you mean like the 246 years of uncompensated labor we gave you all?”
Jeb Bush plans win black votes by not offering us &quot;free stuff&quot; — you mean like the 246 years of uncompensated labor we gave you all?
&mdash; jelani cobb (@jelani9) September 25, 2015
Bush’s campaign emphasized his message of the need for outreach after his remarks Thursday. “His focus is on uplifting people, not dividing them,” a spokeswoman told the New York Times. “And that is a message he will take across America.”

After seeing numerous trend stories about gentrification over the past few years, we now have proof that significant numbers of whites are moving to cities across the country. The  Detroit News last week spotted a change in the city’s population when looking at new data from the Census Bureau: The city’s white population rose by nearly 8,000 people in 2014, marking the first significant increase since 1950.
Detroit, which has been the poster city for white flight for decades, has seen its population continue to shrink in recent years even as the city has implemented policies attempting to lure people back to the city. So while 8,000 isn’t a large number out of Detroit’s total of 680,000 residents, the trend may signal that those policies are working.
Detroit isn’t the only city seeing more whites move there in recent years. After the Detroit News talked to William Frey, a demographer at the Brookings Institution, he conducted an analysis of Census Data with the Washington Post and found that nearly half of America’s 50 largest cities had also gained a statistically significant number of white residents from 2010-2014.
"I was skeptical," Frey  told the Washington Post. "We have this long history of white declines in cities. It’s not just the last five years, 10 years, 15 years, it’s been going on in some places for even longer than that, and Detroit is one of them, clearly."
Since the 2010 census, Detroit’s white population has grown by more than 14,000 people or 2.5 percent. Of the top 50 U.S. cities, only 5 lost white people over the same time period. In the 2000s, 35 cities saw their white populations shrink and 31 saw a decrease in the 1990s.
The media has covered white populations moving to cities individually in the past, often writing about the  trends on an individual basis as certain neighborhoods change due to  gentrification. Especially with the 10-year anniversary of Hurricane Katrina in August, many outlets wrote about the changing demographics in  New Orleans.
But now that this looks like a broader trend, Frey told the Washington Post he doesn’t believe that means it will be a long term pattern in the same way white flight was in the 1950s.
"It’s not something to say we’re going to move 180 degrees in the other direction," Frey said. "And the white population isn’t growing as rapidly as it used to anyway. But it is an indicator that whatever kind of city revival — whether it's short-term or long-term that we’re seeing – is involving whites."
Even as Volkswagen readies itself to name a new CEO, the fallout from its emissions test rigging scandal in the United States continues to broaden. On Friday, Norway and India joined a growing list of countries that have launched investigations over the malpractices of the world's biggest carmaker by sales.
“In light of the recent revelations, we will investigate whether there has been a criminal offense in Norway and whether the fraud has had some impact on the cars in question that have been imported to the country,” Norway’s economic crimes unit said in a statement Friday.
France has already announced sample checks on diesel cars, which might begin as soon as next week, after the European Union urged its member states to investigate whether vehicles in their countries comply with European pollution rules. Australia’s Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) also said Friday that it is making enquires “to determine if consumers might have been exposed to misleading claims,” Reuters reported.
In India, the government instructed the state-run Automotive Research Association of India (ARAI) to evaluate if Volkswagen cars sold in the country flouted any domestic laws.
“We have written to the ARAI to find out whether Volkswagen is selling the same models in India that have been found violating U.S. rules,” Ambuj Sharma, additional secretary at the ministry of heavy industries, reportedly said. “ARAI has been asked to submit its report within a week.”
Following last week’s revelations, when the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency said that Volkswagen had installed illegal “defeat devices” to cheat emission tests, the company’s shares have taken a massive beating. However, on Friday -- two days after Volkswagen CEO Martin Winterkorn stepped down -- the shares recovered slightly.
Volkswagen’s 20-member supervisory board is also meeting Friday at the company's headquarters in Wolfsburg, Germany, to appoint a new CEO. According to some reports, they have already picked Matthias Mueller, the chief executive of the company’s premium car manufacturer, Porsche.
Touting her commitment to lowering healthcare costs, Hillary Clinton this week  unveiled a plan that she says will drive down the skyrocketing price of prescription drugs. The initiative from the Democratic presidential candidate was billed as a challenge to the pharmaceutical industry -- but it is also a rebuke of some of the major pharmaceutical policies of Bill and Hillary Clinton.
During her Iowa campaign event announcing the initiative, Clinton said she wants to allow Americans to purchase medicines from other countries at the lower prices charged there. “If the medicine you need costs less in Canada, you should be able to buy it from Canada, or any country that meets our safety standards,” she said.
As a New York senator, Clinton  voted for legislation to allow importation. However, when Congress in 2000 passed such bipartisan legislation, Bill Clinton’s administration used its  executive authority to prevent an importation program from being implemented. At the time, Clinton’s administration said drugs imported from countries like Canada would be unsafe, later prompting bill  proponents to demand to see evidence of mass Canadian casualties from fraudulent drugs. A federal judge recently  ruled that the federal ban on importation invalidates Maine’s first-in-the-nation state statute designed to permit importation.
Candidate Clinton also said that government agencies like Medicare should be able to use their market power to negotiate lower drug prices and that pharmaceutical companies should be able to retain exclusive patent rights to medicines for only a “reasonable period of time.” But as secretary of state, her aides worked on -- and she  repeatedly  promoted -- the Trans-Pacific Partnership, a partnership that critics say includes provisions that could thwart such proposals.
The consumer watchdog group  Public Citizen said a recent leak of the still-secret partnership's text shows it would “reduce the capability of the government to negotiate lower prices” by subjecting them to trade rules. According to the  Center for American Progress -- which has close ties to the Clintons and is run by  Hillary Clinton’s former policy aide -- the Clinton-backed partnership’s patent provisions “will raise drug prices and hinder access to critical medications.” Economist Dean Baker at the left-leaning Center for Economic and Policy Research has  written that those pact provisions build off World Trade Organization rules backed by President Clinton that toughened international patent protections for drugs.
Clinton’s plan also includes an effort to crack down on direct-to-consumer pharmaceutical advertising -- specifically, by preventing companies from writing off the expense of such ads on their taxes. “Other countries ban these ads because they are so often misleading,” she said. The United States’ full ban on such advertising was officially lifted in 1985, but, experts say, it was Bill Clinton’s administration in  1997 that made the policy changes that permitted the explosion of such ads in the United States. After that change, which  loosened the rules about what must be in such ads, spending on the spots in the United States nearly  quadruples. Today, the United States is  one of the only industrialized nations to permit such ads.
In her remarks promoting her prescription drug plan in Iowa, Clinton also spoke of ongoing taxpayer support for pharmaceutical companies, and said she wants to see more “taxpayer money to fund innovation” in the pharmaceutical sector. But taxpayer funding for drug research has not resulted in lower-priced medicines for those taxpayers -- at least partly because the government gives pharmaceutical corporations the right to commercially market drugs developed with taxpayer dollars without requiring any price controls in return.  
That lack of a guaranteed low price for drugs developed at taxpayer expense was a policy change implemented by Clinton appointees. In  1995, the Clinton administration actually repealed a longstanding rule that had required drugs developed with taxpayer resources to be offered to American consumers at a "reasonable” price. In 2000, Senate Republicans  voted to kill a measure that would have rescinded the Clinton administration’s change; they were supported by senior Democrats, including Joe Biden and Joe Lieberman.
Hillary Clinton’s campaign did not respond to International Business Times questions about her prescription drug plan.
European shares climbed sharply at the open Friday, rebounding from the previous day’s losses, after U.S. Federal Reserve Chairwoman Janet Yellen laid out a case for an interest rate hike by the end of the year. In Asia, however, stock markets were mostly down, with China’s Shanghai Composite Index ending the day 1.6 percent in the red.
The pan-European STOXX 600 was up 3 percent in early trade, while London’s FTSE 100 was trading up 2.4 percent. Germany’s DAX, which fell sharply Thursday in the wake of the emissions scandal engulfing Volkswagen, also recovered, and was up 2.8 percent. France's CAC 40 index was trading up 3.2 percent.
“With equities having sold off following the Fed’s decision to leave rates on hold last week, the bullish (market) ... reaction suggests investors would prefer the Fed to get on with it and raise rates sooner rather than later,” Mike van Dulken, analyst at Accendo Markets trading group, told Agence France-Presse.
Stock futures on the S&P 500 were up 0.43 percent while on the Dow Jones Industrial Average and Nasdaq index, they were trading up 0.55 percent and 0.46 percent, respectively.
Volkswagen shares were also up 2 percent -- before losing ground to be up 1 percent -- amid reports that the company was planning to name Matthias Mueller, the head of its Porsche sports car brand, as the new CEO. Stocks of rival carmakers BMW and Daimler also rose during Friday’s trade.
Yellen’s speech Thursday, where she said that it might be “appropriate” to raise interest rates sometime later this year, also gave the dollar a boost. The dollar index, which weighs it against a basket of major currencies, rose 0.3 percent to 96.63. The U.S. currency had earlier hit a three-week low after the Federal Reserve failed to hike rates last week.
In Asia, though, markets were less upbeat. While Chinese and South Korean stock indexes both finished the day in the red, Japan’s Nikkei 225 closed up 1.8 percent but down over 1 percent in the holiday-shortened two-day trading week.
Iran expects to increase its oil exports by 500,000 barrels a day by late November and early December, and 1 million barrels a day by mid-2016, a senior official of the country’s state-owned oil corporation told the Wall Street Journal. The prediction comes at a time when Iran is still waiting for crippling sanctions imposed on it in 2012 to be lifted.
“We are ready,” Ali Kardor, the chief of investment for the National Iranian Oil Company, told the Journal Thursday, adding that exports to Asian nations such as China and South Korea would begin sooner than many in the West expected.
Iran currently produces just over 3 million barrels of oil a day, most of which is consumed domestically, exporting about 1 million barrels. 
Prior to 2012, oil exports provided half of Iran’s revenue and made up one-fifth of the country’s GDP. Since then, Iran has lost $160 billion in oil revenues, according to an estimate by the United States Treasury Secretary Jacob Lew. The sanctions against Iran will be lifted in a phased manner in the coming months, after the International Atomic Energy Agency verifies that the country has implemented nuclear-related measures under the agreement.
Even after the exports resume, the country would find it extremely difficult to regain its lost market. Global oil prices have already plummeted to record lows. According to an estimate by the International Monetary Fund, Iran’s break-even point for oil -- the price per barrel at which the country can balance its budget -- is $92.50. Meanwhile, Brent crude oil, which hit a peak of $110 a barrel in mid-2014, is currently selling below $50 a barrel, grappling a massive oversupply.
“With Iran coming back, Saudi Arabia not cutting any production and all the macroeconomic concerns around, there is a high risk we could have nasty downward move by the end of the year,” Doug King, chief investment officer at RCMA Asset Management, told the Journal, adding that is a possibility that oil could fall into the low $30s. “Prices will then stabilize but remain lower for a longer period.”
By Lisa Twaronite and Hideyuki Sano
TOKYO (Reuters) -- Asian shares edged up on Friday, while the dollar rose and U.S. interest rate futures price briefly dropped after Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen suggested the central bank is still on track to raise interest rates later this year.
MSCI's broadest index of Asia-Pacific shares outside Japan was up 0.2 percent in early trade, but on track for a weekly loss of more than 4 percent.
Japan's Nikkei stock index rose 1.1 percent, poised to lose 1.7 percent in a holiday-shortened two-day trading week.
Data released before the open showed Japan's core consumer prices marked the first annual drop since the central bank deployed its massive stimulus program more than two years ago.
Japan's government also cut its economic assessment and highlighted external risks posed by China and a U.S. interest rate hike.
Yellen, speaking a week after the Fed delayed a long-anticipated rate hike, said she and other Fed policymakers do not expect recent global economic and financial market developments to significantly affect the central bank's policy.
"We doubt Fed officials will have enough new information to start tightening at the October meeting if they were not prepared to act last week, but we expect they will be moving in December," said Jim O'Sullivan, chief U.S. economist at High Frequency Economics.
"Implicitly, the drag from global forces is being offset by domestic strength," he said in a note to clients.
Yellen struggled to finish a speech at the University of Massachusetts at Amherst due to dehydration, for which she received medical attention.
The Fed chair later attended a dinner event as planned, a university spokesman said.
The euro fell about 0.5 percent to $1.1180 from around $1.1230, while the dollar was up around 0.2 percent to 120.30 yen from around 120.00 yen before Yellen's speech.
Federal fund futures contracts for January fell to as low as 99.735 in price, pricing in more than 50 percent chance of a rate hike by the end of this year, before erasing losses.
U.S. stock futures held relatively firm, up 0.4 percent in early Asian trade, after stocks around the world fell for a fifth day on Thursday, sliding towards two-year lows. Worries lingered over global economic growth and Volkswagen's emissions test scandal rattled European carmakers.
The Brazilian real bounced back sharply after hitting a record low of 4.2482 to the dollar, after the head of the Brazilian central bank vowed to use all instruments in its arsenal to curtail the real's collapse.
The real last stood at 3.9363 per dollar, rising 6.1 percent on the day.
(Reporting by Hideyuki Sano; Editing by Eric Meijer)
The U.S. central bank remains on track to begin raising interest rates later this year as long as inflation remains stable and the economy is strong enough to boost employment, said Federal Reserve Chairwoman Janet Yellen, Reuters reported Thursday. Yellen’s statements came just one week after Fed policymakers delayed a rate hike and voted to keep interest rates near zero.
"Most FOMC [Federal Open Market Committee] participants, including myself, currently anticipate that achieving these conditions will likely entail an initial increase in the federal funds rate later this year, followed by a gradual pace of tightening thereafter," Yellen said in a speech at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst, Reuters reported.  
Yellen predicted that inflation will gradually increase to the Fed’s target rate of 2 percent as the unusually low oil prices rise and the dollar weakens, making the case for raising rates. She suggested that the current global economic weakness will not be “significant” to deter the Fed’s plans to increase its key short-term rate from zero by December, according to the Guardian, and warned against delaying the hike for too long on what should be a quite gradual pace of rate increases.  
Federal Reserve Board Chairwoman Janet Yellen answers questions at a news conference following a Federal Open Market Committee meeting on Sept. 17, 2015, in Washington, D.C.  Photo: Getty Images
“The more prudent strategy is to begin tightening in a timely fashion and at a gradual pace, adjusting policy as needed in light of incoming data,” said Yellen, Reuters reported.
When rates do go up, it will be the first time the Fed has raised interest rates in almost a decade. It will also amount to removing a policy that was put in place in 2007 to keep interest rates low for post-recession economic recovery, the Atlantic reported.  
Meetings of the rate-setting FOMC are scheduled for October and December, and many foresee that a move will be made at the December meeting because Yellen is due to hold a news conference. The FOMC is a branch of the Federal Reserve Board that meets eight times a year to set key interest rates. 
In what was a momentary health scare, Yellen struggled to finish her speech Thursday. She coughed and recomposed herself multiple times before walking off the stage. "Chair Yellen felt dehydrated at the end of a long speech under bright lights," Fed spokeswoman Michelle Smith said in an email, Reuters reported. "As a precaution, she was seen by [emergency medical] staff on-site at UMass Amherst. She felt fine afterwards and has continued with her Thursday evening schedule." 
 
UPDATE 6:45 p.m. EDT: The Secret Service announced that Fed Chairwoman Janet Yellen said she was doing OK after feeling lightheaded while delivering a speech in Amherst, Massachussets, on Thursday evening, CNBC tweeted.
UPDATE 6:35 p.m. EDT: Fed Chairwoman Janet Yellen was receiving medical attention Thursday after struggling to deliver a speech at the University of Massachusetts at Amherst, coughing and stopping to recompose herself several times before walking off stage, Reuters reported.
Yellen, who had been speaking for roughly an hour, appeared to lose her place in reading the speech and stopped several times. She abruptly said, "I think I will end here."
Original story:
AMHERST, Massachusetts (Reuters) -- Federal Reserve Chairwoman Janet Yellen said on Thursday she expects the U.S. central bank to begin raising interest rates later this year as long as inflation remains stable and the U.S.economy is strong enough to boost employment. Yellen, speaking a week after the Fed delayed a long-anticipated rate hike, said she and other Fed policymakers do not expect recent global economic and financial market developments to significantly affect the centra bank's policy.
Much of the recent inflationary weakness is due to special and likely temporary factors such as a strong dollar and low oil prices, she said, allowing U.S. inflation to rise to a 2-percent goal over the next few years.
She and the policy-making Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) expect the world's largest economy to be strong enough to achieve maximum employment and to keep expectations for prices stable, she said.
"Most FOMC participants, including myself, currently anticipate that achieving these conditions will likely entail an initial increase in the federal funds rate later this year, followed by a gradual pace of tightening thereafter," Yellen said in prepared remarks at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst.
As it stands, she said, U.S. economic prospects "generally appear solid."
By Sinead Carew
NEW YORK (Reuters) -- U.S. stocks closed lower on Thursday in a volatile session on uncertainty about U.S. monetary policy and global economic growth, while market heavyweight Caterpillar cut in its sales forecast and healthcare investors fled for the exits.
Six of the 10 major S&P sectors were lower, with the health sector's 1 percent fall leading the S&P declines and the Nasdaq biotech sector down 2 percent. Both healthcare indexes had their fifth straight day of losses.
While the broader market pared losses somewhat in the afternoon, investors were cautious ahead of a speech by Federal Reserve Chairwoman Janet Yellen, which could provide clues regarding the timing of an increase in U.S. interest rates.
Yellen, due to deliver an inflation speech at 5 p.m. EDT, had cited concerns about slowing global growth as a key reason for holding off from a long-anticipated Fed rate hike last Thursday.
Several investment strategists said on Thursday that the market is on its way to retesting the lows of Aug. 24, when shares tanked due to a panic about slowing growth in China.
"From a technical point of view, you have to test that low. Whether it's issues abroad or not being so sure about what's going on here in the U.S. with rates, we need to go lower," said Jeffrey Frankel, co-president of Stuart Frankel & Co in New York.
Almost 7.7 billion shares changed hands on U.S. exchanges, above the average of 7.5 billion in the previous 20 sessions according to Thomson Reuters data.
Shares in Caterpillar, the world's biggest mining and construction equipment maker, closed down 6.3 percent at $65.80, making it the biggest drag on the Dow and the third-biggest weight on the S&P 500. Caterpillar said it could cut up to 10,000 jobs as it faces challenging conditions in key regions and the mining and energy sector.
"The (Caterpillar) news is not helping matters, it's emblematic of a weaker globaleconomy," said Joseph Quinlan, chief market strategist for U.S. Trust, in New York.
The Dow Jones industrial average fell 78.57 points, or 0.48 percent, to 16,201.32, the S&P 500 .SPX lost 6.52 points, or 0.34 percent, to 1,932.24 and the Nasdaq Composite dropped 18.27 points, or 0.38 percent, to 4,734.48.
The CBOE Volatility index, known as Wall Street's "fear gauge," settled up 6 percent at 23.47, compared with its long-term average of 20.
Gilead Sciences Inc was the biggest drag on the S&P 500. Healthcare stocks have been under pressure since Hillary Clinton, the leading U.S. Democratic presidential candidate, vowed earlier this week to stop "price gouging" by drug companies.
Utilities were the strongest sector with a 0.8 percent rise, while the energy index eked out a 0.4 percent gain. U.S. crude oil settled higher in what was also a volatile day for the commodity.
A gauge of U.S. business investment plans fell slightly in August, jobless claims barely rose last week, and new single-family home sales rose more quickly than expected in August.
NYSE declining issues outnumbered advancers on the NYSE by 1,816 to 1,235, for a 1.47-to-1 ratio; on the Nasdaq, 1,529 issues fell and 1,244 advanced, for a 1.23-to-1 ratio favoring decliners.
The S&P 500 posted no new 52-week highs and 69 new lows; the Nasdaq recorded 25 new highs and 184 new lows.
(Additional reporting By Tanya Agrawal in Bengaluru; Editing by Bernadette Baum and Nick Zieminski)
When Christopher and Lauren Monroe went to a dealership to buy a new 2010 Volkswagen Jetta TDI sedan, the salesman had a gimmick to lure customers toward one of Volkswagen's newest diesel engines. He would place a white handkerchief over the tailpipe and let the exhaust pass through for a few seconds.
“Then he would show us the handkerchief and say, ‘look how clean it is.’ ” said Monroe, a lecturer at Cornell University in Ithaca, New York. “It was this dramatic visual effect designed to persuade people who have negative views about diesel cars. Volkswagen has been persuading people with fancy marketing on TV and in publications -- and here they had this little handkerchief trick.” 
Monroe said despite the “cheesy” sales ploy, he was drawn to the Jetta’s interior space and comfort as well as its hybrid-like fuel economy.
Volkswagen has been advertising its small TDI diesel engines as cleaner. Consumers have been lured by a marketing narrative claiming these engines produce high fuel economy without the compromised performance that characterizes hybrid cars -- while also complying with U.S. state and federal emissions standards.  Photo: Volkswagen USA
The Monroes aren’t the only Volkswagen customers who are fuming. Now that the German automaker has been caught altering its “clean diesel” cars to cheat emissions standards, many owners of the vehicles don’t want their cars fixed or altered. The software patch Volkswagen will need to install will adversely affect fuel economy and performance. Many owners, therefore, will likely want Volkswagen to buy their cars back.
“In an ideal world, I want them to show up at my door with a check for $27,000. I'd tell them, 'There’s the car, take it and good luck to you,' ” Monroe said.
Volkswagen has spent more than $164 million this year running 36 national television ads, including $77 million marketing its clean diesel cars, according to iSpot.tv, which tracks TV ad spending. Under enticing slogans like “no compromise,” the company spun a narrative that its cars offered both great performance and high fuel economy without the smoky emissions of traditional diesel vehicles.

“This is not the car I bought and I want Volkswagen to take it back,” says Petar Ramadanovic, an English professor at the University of New Hampshire, who bought a 2015 Volkswagen Golf TDI (Turbocharged Direct Injection) instead of the Prius he had been considering. He paid an extra $5,000 for the TDI version of the Golf so that he could get better fuel economy. “The salesperson was telling my wife and I, ‘This isn’t your old diesel. This is new, cleaner technology.’ And it turns out not to be the case.”
Ramadanovic and Christopher Monroe are plaintiffs in a class-action lawsuit demanding compensation for the premium price customers paid for the diesel cars as well as other costs, including a free vehicle replacement program for people who want to trade in their cars.
In addition to facing an $18 billion fine from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, the costs of fixing 482,000 cars in the U.S. and dealing with lawsuits and settlements for years to come, the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) could also slap Volkswagen hard for making the false advertising claims that helped lure buyers away from hybrid cars like the Toyota Prius and Honda Civic Hybrid.
On Thursday, attorneys general from at least 27 states launched an investigation into the way the company represented its diesel engines to consumers. A spokeswoman told Reuters that state consumer and environmental protection agencies will also review Volkswagen’s conduct.
Rena Steinzor, a law professor at the University of Maryland’s Francis King Carey School of Law, says Volkswagen is not just in trouble for deceiving state and federal environmental regulators and for selling cars that violate emission standards, they’re also on the line for how they marketed the cars.
“What happened here was a very conscious decision to fool with the software to make the car more responsive and to make certain claims about the performance of these cars,” Steinzor said. “The first place the Department of Justice goes in cases like this is to ask, ‘Did you lie to the government?’ And the second place is, ‘Did you make false claims in the marketing?’ ”
On Tuesday, U.S. Sen. Bill Nelson, D-Fla., a member of the Senate Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee, called on the FTC to get involved. “I am outraged that VW would cheat its customers by deceiving them into buying a car that wasn’t what was advertised,” Nelson wrote in a letter sent to the agency.

The FTC declined to comment on Thursday, except to say it had received Sen. Nelson’s letter. Though the U.S. Justice Department is also looking into Volkswagen’s marketing practices, the FTC could get involved by filing a complaint against the automaker, demanding compensation to customers and a national advertising campaign to set the record straight with the public.
The affected Volkswagen Group cars in the U.S.:-- Volkswagen Passat (2014-2015 model years)-- Volkswagen Golf (2009-2015 model years)-- Volkswagen Jetta (2009-2015 model years)-- Volkswagen Beetle (2009-2015 model years)-- Audi A3 (2009-2015 model years)
In a signal of federal regulators' growing interest in stamping out racial discrimination in bank lending, the federal government on Thursday announced a historic settlement deal, worth nearly $33 million, with Hudson City Bancorp. The Paramus, New Jersey, bank engaged in the practice of "redlining," meaning it structured its business to avoid lending in neighborhoods that are majority African-American and Hispanic in New York, New Jersey, Connecticut, and Pennsylvania, according to the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) and the Department of Justice. 
The company's consumer-facing subsidiary, Hudson City Savings Bank, avoided locating branches and loan officers, and avoided using mortgage brokers, in neighborhoods where minorities predominate, the government alleged. Put simply, U.S. Attorney Paul Fishman said, if you lived in one of those neighborhoods between 2009 and 2013 and wanted to apply for a mortgage, "Hudson City Savings Bank was not the place to go." By contrast, the bank's competitors successfully made "thousands" of loans to qualified borrowers in the same neighborhoods, Fishman said.
As part of the proposed settlement, which is pending approval by a federal judge in New Jersey, Hudson City will pay $25 million in direct loan subsidies to qualified borrowers, $2.25 million for community programs and outreach, and $5.5 million in civil penalties for alleged violations of laws that guarantee equal access to credit and prohibit discrimination in housing. It is the largest ever redlining settlement to include direct subsidy payments for borrowers, officials said.  
“We allege that Hudson City’s redlining practices illegally cut off opportunities for consumers in predominantly black and Hispanic neighborhoods to get a mortgage and achieve the dream of home ownership,” said CFPB Director Richard Cordray. “Without access to affordable credit, neighborhoods deteriorate in the long shadow cast by unfair lending."
Hudson City did not admit or deny wrongdoing under the proposed settlement. In court papers, the bank stated that it "believed that it was satisfying its obligations to meet the credit needs of majority-black-and-Hispanic neighborhoods by purchasing from other lenders [Federal Housing Administration]-guaranteed mortgages that were secured by residential properties in majority-black-and-Hispanic neighborhoods."
The CFPB began to scrutinize the bank's lending practices in March 2014 and subsequently launched a joint investigation with the Department of Justice.
While redlining is often associated with segregation-era bank practices that involve denying home loans to people of color, officials said Thursday that redlining remains a reality in today's marketplace and that both the CFPB and the Department of Justice are focused on rooting out discriminatory lending practices.
"We have more redlining investigations open now than at any time in the last six years,” said Greg Friel, deputy assistant attorney general in the Justice Department's civil rights division.
Friel said the companies under investigation encompass a "wide variety of institutions as far as their size goes," but he declined to provide more specifics.
Regulators at the state and local level have also taken recent enforcement actions against alleged discriminatory lending practices. This week the city of Oakland filed a federal lawsuit accusing Wells Fargo of targeting minority residents with higher-priced and riskier loans, when those borrowers qualified for loans with better terms. Earlier this month, the New York attorney general's office hammered out an $825,000 agreement with Evans Bancorp to settle redlining claims.       
The lawsuit against Hudson City comes as mortgage lending to minorities continues to lag behind lending to whites, seven years after the onset of a financial crisis that eviscerated wealth in many communities of color across the country. In 2014, African-Americans received 5.2 percent of home purchase loans, and Hispanics received 7.9 percent of those loans, compared to 69.1 percent for whites, according to Home Mortgage Disclosure Act data released this week. In 2014, African-Americans comprised 13.2 percent of the U.S. population, and Hispanics made up 17.4 percent, according the U.S. Census Bureau.
While African-Americans and Hispanics made gains of 0.4 percent and 0.6 percent, respectively, compared to 2013, consumer advocacy organizations say that people of color remain underserved in the mortgage market when those figures are viewed relative to their population size.
"[P]eople of color and low- and moderate-income families continue to receive a far lower share of home purchase loans than they have historically and than would be expected based on their share of the population," the Center for Responsible Lending, a North Carolina-based nonprofit, wrote in an analysis of the federal data.
The loan subsidy program that comprises the bulk of the Hudson City settlement will make mortgage loans more affordable for residents of black and Hispanic neighborhoods in the four states, officials said. The subsidies can include reduced interest rates, and they can help with closing costs and down payments. 
Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton lashed out this week at the head of Turing Pharmaceuticals over an egregious price hike for a medicine that treats a deadly infection. And although Clinton shortly rolled out her own plan to lower drug costs, there is great political disagreement about how to solve the problem of ballooning drug prices. Many attempts have failed spectacularly in Congress, creating a sense of despondency among patients who are desperate for more affordable treatments.
Americans have heard multiple proposals to rein in the high cost of prescription drugs lately, most notably from Clinton and Democratic rival Sen. Bernie Sanders of Vermont. But so far, no candidate has proposed what is perhaps the most straightforward and surefire way to guarantee that prices do not creep steadily upward: government price controls.
The controversial policy is instituted in many countries around the world. But critics say if it were implemented in the U.S., it would have an outsize effect and dramatically stall investment and innovation in the pharmaceutical industry and compromise the health of future patients.  
Price controls are when government tinkers with one of the most fundamental rules of economics – that price should reflect consumer demand. Instead of relying on demand to drive price, the government sets a minimum (called a price floor) or a maximum (known as a price ceiling) that can be charged for a product or service.
There’s no doubt that price controls are “a serious step,” in the words of Jared Bernstein, a senior fellow at the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities and former chief economist and economic adviser to Vice President Joe Biden. “I think it's pretty outside the political mainstream,” he says.
However, at least 11 countries in the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development employ some form of price control for drugs, according to a report by the U.S. International Trade Administration. As a result, aggregate prices for popular patented drugs are 18 to 67 percent lower in those nations than in the U.S.
Most economists abhor the idea of price controls except in the case of emergencies such as an extreme shortage of an essential good. They say price ceilings in the pharmaceutical industry will stifle competition and discourage innovation.
“If you impose price controls on the U.S., you will have a dry-up of capital investment,” John Graham, a health economist at the National Center for Policy Analysis, says. “We saw that when Hillary Clinton just sent a tweet before she announced her plan. The stock prices in biotech and pharmaceuticals went down by 3.5 percent.”
Graham and other critics say if companies can no longer reap the same profits they once made from medicines, there is less incentive for them to create new and better treatments. Investors and employees might flee to other industries where they are still permitted to seek limitless profits.
A 2008 Rand Corporation analysis found that imposing price controls on prescriptions that reduced manufacturers’ revenue by 20 percent would bring a “modest” financial savings of about $1,100 per person for consumers in the short term, but ultimately reduce the life expectancy of patients by 0.7 years by 2060. Instead, analysts suggested policies to reduce patient copays while preserving the profits of pharmaceutical companies.  
But supporters of price controls say traditional economic rules don’t apply to the prescription drug market. Prescription drugs are sold through a convoluted market built on temporary monopolies created by generous patent protection, in which companies arbitrarily set a price they believe they can persuade insurers and the government to pay. Those anomalies have created an unfair system in which pharmaceutical companies earn excessive profits while patients endure outsize costs.
Bernstein says these are the points that economists miss in their “knee-jerk” reaction to price controls. He and other proponents say price controls are the best way to ensure that pharmaceutical companies remain profitable and that patients get the best possible deal on their prescriptions.  
“If we were talking about pork bellies, I'd be with them 100 percent,” he says. “But we're talking about a market where we just saw an example of a price jumping thousands of percentage points overnight. Clearly this is a very distorted market fraught with deep protectionism.”
To answer critics’ concerns about innovation, Bernstein suggests finding creative new ways to reward originality such as offering a generous cash prize for inventing beneficial new medicines, and growing the National Institutes of Health to subsidize the expensive stages of early research for pharmaceutical companies.   
Graham says the smartest approach to lowering drug costs is to reduce the amount of money pharmaceutical companies must spend to create new medicines. This starts, he says, with shrinking the “massively burdensome” U.S. Food and Drug Administration, which approves all new drugs. He supports measures contained in the 21st Century Cures Act, which has passed the House and will be taken up by the Senate this fall. That legislation aims to streamline the FDA approval process so that pharmaceutical companies can debut more medicines at a reduced cost.  
So far, no presidential candidate has been so bold as to propose price controls for prescription drugs. Clinton’s plan, which she laid out in a speech in Iowa on Tuesday, includes a $250-a-month cap on out-of-pocket drug costs for patients with chronic diseases. Sanders, who has long advocated around this issue, proposed a series of pricing reforms in legislation earlier this month, including a ban on the practice of companies paying each other to not produce generic versions of patented medicines.
Even Bernstein says price controls should be a last resort, considered only after all the measures proposed by Clinton and Sanders have been tried. But he also has little confidence that any of those other policies will put a dent in prescription drug prices. That’s why he says it’s time to bring price controls to the table. 
Since Volkswagen admitted this week to cheating on pollution tests for years, there has been a flood of outrage. Overwhelmingly, it is directed at the most obvious culprit: the German automaker, which admitted to equipping 11 million of its diesel cars worldwide with software specifically designed to reduce emissions during tests. But some critics argue Volkswagen is not the only one to blame. Are the regulators at fault, too?
“Automakers have been able to exploit lax testing systems in the U.S. and Europe,” declared a Bloomberg editorial this week. “Regulators owe it to both car buyers and the environment to make these systems more rigorous.”
In the United States, critics say, the Environmental Protection Agency isn’t as strong a watchdog as it should be. The editorial board at Bloomberg says the EPA gives automakers like Volkswagen too much latitude in determining testing conditions. The agency doesn’t have engineers on hand at the labs that actually conduct the exams, doesn’t vary its testing routines enough and should have done more to detect the sneaky software gambit that will likely lead to the recall of some 500,000 cars in the U.S.
The EPA did not respond to requests for comment.
Volkswagen’s deception may be particularly widespread and therefore more egregious. But it’s not the first company to cheat American emissions standards. Hyundai and Kia acknowledged they overstated fuel economy standards on 1.2 million cars from 2010 to 2012. Last November, the companies agreed to a combined $300 million settlement with the Justice Department and the EPA for doing so.
Still, Tyson Slocum, director of the energy program at consumer advocacy group Public Citizen, said it’s unfair “to claim the EPA is responsible for a very sophisticated deception.”
Emissions tests in the United States consist of the following: Automakers put their cars on rollers at various testing sites and run them through a set of federally approved maneuvers. Volkswagen duped the system by writing code into its diesel cars' software that automatically switched them into a sort of “low-emissions mode” during these moves.
Even with a beefed-up team of monitors on hand at testing sites, Slocum said, Volkswagen’s trick “would have been very hard to catch." "Stopping a determined criminal is tough," he said, and “at the end of the day, you’ve got to hold the primary entity accountable.”
At the same time, Slocum said, those complaining about the agency’s oversight methods or regulatory capabilities should turn to federal legislators.
“Congress is to blame for the EPA’s light touch,” he said. He scoffed at the “Chicken Little” attacks from federal lawmakers and industry alike that frequently deride the agency as a jobs killer. Since 2010, the agency has seen its budget decline by 20 percent, or about $2 billion. (Earlier this month, before the emissions scandal broke, 20 members of Congress filed articles of impeachment against Gina McCarthy, head of the EPA.)
Europe’s testing system, on the other hand, is widely seen as more hands-off than the United States'. Automakers there comply with the New European Driving Cycle, a test that got its last major revision in the 1990s. It takes less time to complete than its American counterpart and doesn’t properly simulate real-world conditions, critics contend, and therefore is easier to game. A recent report from the U.K. Committee on Climate Change found the gap between official and real-world emissions of new passenger cars rose from 10 to 35 percent between 2002 and 2014.
The European Environment Agency is an agency of the European Union that provides information to policymakers, but does not implement policy itself. That responsibility lies with the European Commission.
Bill Becker is the executive director of the National Association of Clean Air Agencies, a group that represents state and local pollution control agencies. He said “the EPA certainly has a role but they don’t deserve a severe whipping about what happened.”
Those concerned with preventing similar conspiracies in the future should look toward the judicial system, which has the ability to set a strong deterrent effect, he said. Penalties wield far more influence over automaker behavior than any changes to emissions testing procedures.
“The solution here is for the courts and the Justice Department to impose as severe a penalty as possible,” he said, “to penalize so harshly that no other employer would ever consider this again."
Correction, September 28, 2015, 9:15 a.m. EDT: An earlier version of this story implied that the European Environment Agency is responsible for auto emissions standards. Unlike its U.S. equivalent, however, the European agency does not implement policy.  The story has been updated to reflect this fact. 
The price of a medical miracle varies by country. Imatinib -- also known as Gleevec -- was hailed as a miracle cure to treat chronic myeloid leukemia, a rare type of cancer, upon the drug's approval in 2001. In the U.S., a year of treatment cost $92,000 in 2013. Everywhere else in the world, including in developed countries, it cost far less. Germany’s price tag was $54,000. In the U.K., it was $33,500 for annual care.
Medicines in the U.S. frequently cost significantly more than the same versions in other advanced countries. The ongoing scrutiny over drug pricing systems, in the spotlight this week following the decision of Turing Pharmaceuticals to raise the price of its drug Daraprim from $13.50 per pill to $750, has reignited debate over price controls in the U.S. But what often goes overlooked in these discussions is the fact that pricey medicines in the U.S. actually subsidize research and development for the rest of the world, and for all the proposals to lower drug prices in the U.S., a solution to this particular imbalance is nowhere in sight.
“It’s not fair that people in France pay a lot less for drugs than we do here. But there’s not much we can do about it,” Mick Kolassa, founding partner of Medical Marketing Economics, a consulting firm based in Mississippi, said.
In Europe, drug prices are set by governments, not by pharmaceutical companies the way they are in the U.S. On average, the difference between the price of one drug in the U.S. and the same drug in France, Germany, Italy, Spain and the U.K. was 50 percent, an analysis by the consulting firm McKinsey has found.
“U.S. consumers are in fact subsidizing other countries’ public health systems, at least with respect to drug pricing,” Jacob Sherkow, an associate professor at New York Law School, said.
These price discrepancies and their implications are well known throughout the industry but rarely discussed outside of it. Pharmaceutical companies have long defended the high price of drugs as necessary to pay for the research and development of new drugs, but the differences in pricing essentially means that consumers in the U.S. are contributing more than those in other countries. The U.S. accounted for 46 percent of global life sciences research and development--the vast majority of which is in biopharmaceuticals--according to the December 2013 issue of R&D Magazine.
“The U.S. is the global leader in biomedical innovation,” Mark Grayson, a spokesman for PhRMA, a pharmaceutical industry trade group that represents many of the world’s biggest drug companies, said in an email. “The research is for medicines that will be sold in the U.S. but obviously will be sold around the world,” he added.
Via @business: Aging blockbusters are behind some of the biggest drug price increases http://t.co/ArdEbvQCZf pic.twitter.com/zgjvs8Z4yR
&mdash; AHIP (@AHIPCoverage) May 6, 2015
 
This imbalance can certainly be perceived as other countries’ freeloading, Kolassa, a former director of pricing and economic policy at the drug company Sandoz, said. He recalled negotiating drug prices with foreign governments, some of whom refused outright to buy certain drugs if they were priced too high, even if doing so reduced contributions to R&D. “They knew the U.S. would cover it,” he said.
Rafi Mohammed, the founder of Culture of Profit, a  Massachusetts-based consulting firm, said the differences in drug prices should raise larger questions about how to finance pharmaceutical R&D, which should be considered a common good. He added, “Every country needs to contribute in some fair fashion to this pool.”
The question is, how?
The R&D Debate
Although drug companies insist they need to charge high prices in order to fund R&D, critics point to exorbitant profits and executive pay at pharmaceutical companies as proof that drugs are simply overpriced and that the claim of needing to fund R&D is merely a front. For instance, in 2014, John C. Lechleiter, Eli Lilly’s chairman and CEO, earned more than $14 million in total compensation, including a salary of $1.5 million. Several other top executives at the company also took home high salaries, according to its 2014 annual report.
Drug companies could cover the costs of the same research by lowering prices—companies would simply have to accept lower profits, against the will of shareholders and investors, and lower executive compensation, critics say. Some also point to excessive sales and marketing costs as pushing up drug prices—and sometimes even exceeding spending on research and development.
#BigPharma spending far more on marketing than research via @AnaSwanson @washingtonpost http://t.co/cgWm6a7WGa pic.twitter.com/3ZOMgbtIDh
&mdash; Makovsky (@makovsky) April 14, 2015
 
The average cost of developing a new drug ranges from $800 million to $1.2 billion and takes an average of 10 to 15 years from initial discovery to being delivered to the patient, according to the Indiana-based drug company Eli Lilly. In 2014, the company had more than $19.6 in revenue, of which $4.73 billion, or 24 percent, went to R&D, according to its 2014 annual report. 
“We believe our long-term competitive success depends upon discovering and developing (either alone or in collaboration with others) or acquiring innovative, cost-effective human pharmaceutical and animal health products,” Lilly noted in the annual report.
To Kolassa, popular outrage over drug pricing can be partially explained by a lack of understanding that drugs simply cost money. “We’ve got a real problem, that people want drugs to be free but don’t understand that the new ones only come out of the old ones,” he said. “We tend to not appreciate the value of pharmaceuticals,” he added.
As a result, whether pricing structures are fair or not, the fact that other developed countries pay less for drugs has another consequence that is often overlooked: “It limits the availability of new drugs,” Kolassa said.
No Solution
Many proposals to lower drug prices fall into two camps: increase government regulation, or develop a single payer system. U.S. Senator Bernie Sanders and Democratic candidate Hillary Clinton have both unveiled proposals to lower drug prices, but experts were skeptical that any politically feasible solution to address climbing drug prices, much less balance out them out across the developed world, exists.
Bernie Sanders&#39; drug price-control bill is, for now, DOA. Via @Bloomberg Intelligence: https://t.co/RVLMyYUauj $GILD pic.twitter.com/1XqRgaiSiV
&mdash; Brian Rye (@Brian_Rye) September 11, 2015
 
“At the very least, there’s not a great solution other than completely upending and gutting the healthcare system that we have today,” Sherkow, of New York Law School, said. It would be all but impossible for the U.S. to haggle with other countries over drug prices, he pointed out, while the option of allowing the U.S. government to negotiate prices with drugmakers was also politically unlikely.
Even if European countries were to raise their prices—as Eli Lilly’s CEO has openly called for—that wouldn’t automatically decrease prices in the U.S. Meanwhile, drug companies have no motive to lower drug prices in the U.S.
“The problem is right now, the system is such that a company that sets a low price is not going to be rewarded for it—it’s going to be punished for it,” Kolassa said, noting that any company that lowered prices would face backlash from investors and stockholders. Instead, he said, “the incentive in the system is to keep going higher and higher until the whole thing falls apart.”
If a brick-and-mortar wall is good for the United States’ southern border with Mexico, then it’s also good for the border with Canada -- at least this is what four in 10 Americans claim, according to a new Bloomberg Politics poll. The  poll, released Thursday, found that 41 percent of U.S. adults support building a wall along both the southern and northern U.S. borders. A majority of people surveyed, however, said there should not be a wall built on either frontier. Roughly 55 percent opposed a wall along the Mexican border and 56 percent were against one on the border with Canada.
These numbers will perhaps come as a small comfort to Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker, who brought up the idea of a U.S.-Canada wall during a  “Meet the Press” interview on Aug. 30. It was considered one of several gaffes for the candidate, who later  took back his comments about the wall, and has since dropped out of the 2016 presidential race.
Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker, who proposed a wall on the Canadian border speaks at the Heritage Action for America presidential candidate forum in Greenville, South Carolina, Sept. 18, 2015 Photo: Reuters/Chris Keane
Some of the findings in Bloomberg’s poll show Americans hold contradictory opinions about various aspects of immigration policy. While 80 percent of adults said they believed the U.S. economy has thrived over time because of immigrants who came to start new lives in America, 56 percent said immigrants represent a security risk and so all kinds of immigration should be decreased. As for Pope Francis’ stance on immigration, 70 percent thought the pope has the right idea when he urges nations to be more welcoming of immigrants.
While immigration has been a hot topic for presidential candidates and has received a significant amount of media attention recently, only 7 percent of Americans think it is the top issue facing the country. Instead, unemployment and jobs was the top issue with 20 percent, followed by a decline in real income for American workers (14 percent), health care and the Islamic State group (each 11 percent).
Immigration has become a top issue for candidates partly because of Donald Trump’s incendiary comments throughout the summer. Trump retained his front-runner status among registered Republicans and Republican leaners in the Bloomberg poll, but had a lower net favorability rating among Republicans than Ben Carson, Jeb Bush, Carly Fiorina and Ted Cruz.
The survey of 1,001 U.S. adults was conducted by Selzer & Co. of Des Moines, Iowa, Sept. 18-21 and has a margin of error of 3.1 points.
The Volkswagen emissions scandal, which has resulted in the resignation of CEO Martin Winterkorn and has the automaker facing billions of dollars in penalties and possible criminal charges, has shocked the automotive world. Several models from years 2009-2015 are affected, including the Beetle, the Audi A3 and the Golf.
The automaker used a control mechanism known as a “defeat device” to fool U.S. environmental officials into thinking its cars met emissions standards. But Volkswagen owners shouldn’t go hunting through their cars in search of some mysterious black box. The device exists mostly as additional lines of software code in existing computer controls.
“At this stage, it’s definitely in Volkswagen’s interest to get the issue fixed and behind them as fast as possible,” John German, senior fellow at the International Council on Clean Transportation, told International Business Times. Brown and colleague Peter Mock were the key figures in exposing the scandal.
A defeat device is a type of auxiliary emission control device (AECD) that, in the case of Volkswagen, improved how well the emissions control system worked under certain testing conditions.
The Volkswagen defeat device isn't a physical object: The Environmental Protection Agency explains that the "device" is embedded in the software code responsible for running the engine control computer. The cars in question sensed whether they were being tested based on "the position of the steering wheel, vehicle speed, the duration of the engine's operation, and barometric pressure," according to the EPA.
The control computer is typically stored on the firewall underneath the dashboard.
Smog Alert
When a car is driving down the road, the onboard computer gets data from several different sources. This isn't unusual: this data is used for the daily running of the vehicle. For example, accelerometer data can say how fast it is going, while impact detection can control when to deploy the airbags. Matt De Lorenzo, analyst at Kelley Blue Book, said that the average car has around 20 million lines of code in the onboard computer.
What cars usually do to bring their smog levels down is use an AdBlue or a urea injection. When a small amount of this fluid is injected during the running of the car, it can lower production of NOx, a component of smog. "A lot of larger vehicles use those systems," said Lorenzo. The system used to inject the fluid can be expensive, however, and this can be a concern particularly on the price-sensitive end of the market with the Jettas and Golfs.
So Volkswagen ditched the injectors. Instead, the affected cars’ onboard computers would be measuring and checking the state of the car and, thanks to some extra code, would decide whether the conditions matched those of a lab test. When this happened, the computer would alter the cars’ running states to achieve the efficiency levels required by the EPA.
The EPA claims that cars affected were able to detect when they were under testing conditions. The full emissions controls of the car were only activated during the test. This means that the affected cars were able to trick the test into believing they were more environmentally friendly than they were. “Using a defeat device in cars to evade clean air standards is illegal and a threat to public health,” said Cynthia Giles, assistant administrator for the Office of Enforcement and Compliance Assurance.
Not Quite Lifelike
But how could the car know it was being tested in conditions? Frank O'Donnell, president of Clean Air Watch, explained that the EPA measures cars in laboratories, putting sample cars provided by the manufacturer on a test machine that measures the amount of emissions coming out of the tailpipe. 
These lab conditions try to simulate real world conditions, but they are still not the same as driving down the road. "It's not like they're going out on the highway with a guy strapped under car, with a device sticking into the tailpipe," O'Donnell said. Telltale signs, like a consistent ambient temperature and the non-drive wheels not turning, could be a giveaway. That means that with the right code the car could "sense" when it is being tested, just by looking for these signs.
It’s not yet known exactly what Volkswagen was measuring. German said that it will probably be months before we find out what exactly the company was doing. The EPA explained that the "device" can't be turned off by the user, and Volkswagen will now be required to fix the issue without the owner incurring charges.
Matthias Müller is poised to become CEO of Volkswagen amid an international scandal involving faked U.S. emissions tests. Müller, the chief executive of the VW group’s premium car manufacturer, Porsche AG, will replace Martin Winterkorn after the company’s admission that it cheated on U.S. emissions tests, the Wall Street Journal reported Thursday.
Winterkorn resigned Wednesday after almost nine years at the helm of Europe’s biggest carmaker. Members of Volkswagen’s supervisory board then named Müller, 62, as his likely successor, according to media reports. Müller has a majority on the 20-member panel and the final decision is expected to be announced after a full board meeting Friday.
The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency charged last week that Volkswagen used software on some of its Volkswagen and Audi diesel-powered cars that let them test cleaner than they do on the road. As many as 11 million cars are involved.
BREAKING: Sources tell @Reuters and @WSJ that @Porsche boss Matthias Mueller will become new @VW CEO. pic.twitter.com/qzMirmdTAy
&mdash; Automotive News (@Automotive_News) September 24, 2015
A flurry of firings and resignations may come from Volkswagen over the next few weeks and months. Wolfgang Hatz, the head of research and development at the Porsche unit, and Ulrich Hackenberg, the board member responsible for technical development at Audi, were expected to leave soon as the company tries to contain the damage, the German daily Bild-Zeitung reported Thursday. Meanwhile, Der Spiegel reported that Hans-Jakcob Neusser, head of development at the VW brand since 2013, had also been forced out.
Müller presided over a period of rapid growth as CEO of Porsche. He took that position in 2010 and oversaw the successful launch of two sport-utility vehicles. Müller studied computer science in Munich before joining VW’s Audi subsidiary in Ingolstadt in 1977.
If you didn’t preorder an iPhone 6S, it’s still possible to get one on Friday, the first day it is available in U.S. stores. But it may take a little more legwork and a bit of luck. One of the first places to look is the Apple Store. But in major cities, chances are there are already people lined up outside.
If you decide to go that route, be sure to bundle up -- depending on local weather conditions -- and bring a chair and maybe some form of entertainment. But don’t expect to line up at all locations, since iPhone 6S sales are limited to people with reservations at Apple Stores in states with no sales tax, such as Oregon, New Hampshire, Delaware and Alaska. Apple has a similar reservation policy in place for its stores in Hong Kong, China and Japan, presumably to deter scalpers.
If waiting outside in the cold doesn't sound like fun, don't line up for an iPhone at an Apple Store. Photo: Courtesy/Luke Villapaz
But if long lines are not your idea of a good time, here’s how to get the iPhone 6S on launch day.
Wireless Carriers
Apple’s major U.S. carrier partners -- AT&T, Verizon, Sprint and T-Mobile -- will also have iPhones available for walk-in purchases on a first-come, first-serve basis.
If you purchase your iPhone 6S from T-Mobile, the carrier is selling the 16GB version under its Jump On Demand leasing program for $5 a month, with an iPhone 6 or 6 Plus trade-in. Verizon shoppers can get up to $300 in the form of a gift card for trading in an old smartphone as well as a $100 credit on their bills if they’re switching to the carrier.
Alternatively, AT&T customers can also take advantage of Enjoy -- a concierge service launched by former Apple retail chief Ron Johnson. New York City and San Francisco Bay Area shoppers who purchase an iPhone 6S through AT&T’s website can have the phone hand-delivered and set up for free within 48 hours starting on Friday. Sprint offers a similar service called “Direct 2 You,” where a representative delivers the phone and helps customers with the setup process.
These options may be particularly attractive for New York residents who would prefer to stay indoors during Pope Francis’ visit to Manhattan.
Other Options
If the crowds and fanfare of waiting in line at the Apple Store or a carrier store don't appeal to you, a number of Apple’s retail partners are also expected to carry the iPhone 6S and 6S Plus on launch day, such as Best Buy, Target and Walmart. Keep in mind that each store may have different levels of stock and carrier-specific iPhone 6S and 6S Plus units available.
Just days after critics lambasted the chief executive of Turing Pharmaceuticals for abruptly raising the price of a prescription drug by more than 5,000 percent, a major pharmaceutical company is introducing a pricing scheme that could arguably have a much greater impact on global public health. Novartis AG said on Thursday it will provide 15 drugs that treat chronic diseases for just $1 per treatment per month to government, nonprofit organizations and public healthcare providers in low-income countries.
The company will distribute patented and generic drugs for diabetes, cardiovascular disease, breast cancer and respiratory illnesses through a new program called Novartis Access. Novartis, based in Basel, Switzerland, will offer three brand name medicines including vildagliptin for diabetes as well as 12 generic drugs from its subsidiary Sandoz such as furosemide for heart failure, ramipril for high blood pressure and tamoxifen for breast cancer in this arrangement. All the drugs the company will provide are listed on the World Health Organization’s Essential Medicines List. It will first launch sales in Kenya, Ethiopia and Vietnam and may expand to up to 30 countries.
While many companies, including Novartis, have donated medications for malaria, tuberculosis and neglected tropical diseases to low-income countries, this form of charity has its limits. In a fact sheet about the new program, Novartis stated that donations are important “but not scalable enough to make a lasting impact.” The company said it expects Novartis Access to be “commercially sustainable” over the long term. That means if all goes well, patients in these nations could reap the benefits of deeply discounted wholesale rates for the rest of their lives.
“This program takes a novel approach to addressing the rising tide of chronic diseases in parts of the world where people often have limited access to healthcare,” Joerg Reinhardt, chairman of the board of Novartis, said in a statement. “We know we will need to keep an open mindset and learn as we progress on this journey.”
About 28 million people die from noncommunicable diseases each year in low- and middle-income countries. Cancer, heart disease, diabetes and respiratory diseases make up the majority of these deaths, and the incidence of these diseases is expected to increase by 17 percent over the next decade. So while startup Turing shocked the health scene with the sudden price hike on its drug Daraprim, which treats a parasitic infection and was prescribed to about 9,000 patients last year, Novartis’ announcement could have far greater implications for global health.
Novartis’ announcement came just before the United Nations Sustainable Development Summit, which kicks off Friday in New York. There, global leaders will discuss access to healthcare as among the key issues facing the wellbeing of poor and disenfranchised populations. 
Tensions are set to rise between global bank regulators when the international oversight board charged with preventing another worldwide financial crisis meets in London Friday.
The Financial Stability Board, made up of central bankers and financial regulators the world over, is hammering out divisive rules over how much money "too big to fail" banks need to set aside to weather a crisis.
But member nations disagree over the levels of protection lenders need to protect taxpayers from having to foot the bill for a bank collapse. Germany joins the U.S. in pushing for tougher standards, Bloomberg reports, citing three sources close to the matter. Japan, France and others want the FSB to go easier.
At issue are the FSB’s guidelines around total loss-absorbing capacity (TLAC), which measures how much of a bank’s assets could go toward cushioning losses in a crisis. The capital buffer, made up of Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital plus long-term unsecured debt, must make up 16-20 percent of a bank’s assets, after they are weighted for risks.
On the low end of this spectrum, most large banks would be unaffected. Existing regulatory regimes, including the international Basel III framework, already require TLAC levels in that range.
But American representatives, including members of the Federal Reserve System and the Securities and Exchange Commission, want the minimum capital buffers to be significantly higher. And deposit-oriented banks like Wells Fargo and JPMorgan Chase & Co., could feel the pressure.
Those two banks would each have to raise at least $50 billion in new securities, according to analysts at CreditSights and ColumbiaThreadneedle cited by Bloomberg. U.K. giant HSBC would also have to bulk up on buffer capital.
Meanwhile, the investment banks that came far closer to collapse than their depository counterparts during the 2008 financial crisis would be largely unaffected, due to the way the capital buffers are calculated. A separate proposal would set a minimum leverage ratio at twice the cutoff set by Basel standards.
The mega-banks set to be affected have pushed against the proposals. In a letter to the FSB, Wells Fargo said it was “very concerned” and suggested alternative approaches. Yet American regulators are reportedly holding to the higher standard, setting up a coming conflict in the world’s highest financial authority.
U.S. stocks were trading down Thursday morning as investors look to overnight drops in Europe and await a speech later today from U.S. Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen that could offer the latest clues on when the U.S. will begin increasing interest rates for the first time in years. Meanwhile, new data released before markets opened showed orders for long-lasting goods dropped in August on a stronger U.S. dollar, which impacts exports, and a pullback of investment in energy operations on low oil prices.
The Dow Jones Industrial Average (INDEXDJX:.DJI) shed 213.02 points, or 1.31 percent, to 16,067. The Standard & Poor's 500 index (INDEXSP:.INX) lost 23.43 points, or 1.21 percent, to 1,915. The Nasdaq composite (INDEXNASDAQ:.IXIC) dropped 61.63 points, or 1.30 percent, to 4,691.All 10 major sectors were in the red Thursday morning, led by industrial companies and firms that supply raw materials. Utilities and telecommunications companies were down less than 1 percent. Caterpillar Inc. (NYSE:CAT) plunged nearly 7 percent to its lowest price in five years after the construction and mining equipment maker lowered its sales forecast and said it could cut up to 10,000 jobs. The news pulled down industrial stocks.The U.S. Commerce Department said Thursday a key indicator of business investment, orders for durable goods, fell 0.2 percent in August after gaining 1.2 percent in July. Demand for aircraft and automotive parts dropped while energy companies continued to reel back on investments amid low prices and demand for crude. Orders for computers plunged 5.7 percent last month though demand for industrial machinery gained 1 percent.
Fed Chair Janet Yellen will speak Thursday evening at the University of Massachusetts about inflation and policy, a week after the Fed surprised markets by holding interest rates at historic lows, raising concerns about the health of the global economy.
Asian stocks were mostly down, led by a 2.76 percent drop of Japan’s Nikkei 225. Japanese telecommunications and Internet giant Softbank Group Corp. (TYO:9984) led declines in Tokyo, dropping 6.3 percent as its major holdings, including China’s Alibaba Group, tumbled. Japanese automotive suppliers, like NGK Insulators Ltd. (TYO:5333), dropped amid a widening emissions-rigging scandal at Volkswagen AG, the world’s largest automaker. Hong Kong’s Hang Sen closed down 0.97 percent while the mainland’s Shanghai Composite Index gained 0.86 percent, suggesting a recent massive sell-off may be over, for now.
Europe’s major indexes were all heading to a red close on Thursday amid volatility in automotive, raw materials and industrials. London’s FTSE 100 Index was down 0.68 percent while the German DAX and French CAC 40 dropped 1.91 percent and 1.76 percent, respectively.
Oil prices were down Thursday after U.S. data released Wednesday showed a larger-than-expected buildup of U.S. gasoline stocks and tepid demand following the end of the summer holiday driving season. West Texas Intermediate crude, the benchmark for U.S. oil prices on the New York Mercantile Exchange, lost 0.63 percent to $44.20 per barrel for November delivery. On the London ICE Futures Exchange, Brent crude for November advanced 0.10 percent to $47.70 a barrel.
Two top managers from Audi and Porsche are allegedly set to leave their posts Friday amid continuing controversy over Volkswagen diesel cars that reportedly cheated on emissions road tests in the United States to appear more environmentally friendly. Both car companies are owned by Volkswagen, and leading development executives Ulrich Hackenberg of Audi and Wolfgang Hatz of Porsche will be forced out at a meeting Friday, the German newspaper Bild reported Thursday.
Both Hackenberg and Hatz were two of the top-ranking engineers at the company, and their dismissal has come as Volkswagen attempts to clear its ranks of employees implicated in the current scandal. Martin Winterkorn, the chief executive officer, resigned Wednesday.
Winterkorn said he was not aware of the emissions irregularities, though he still took full responsibility as CEO in his statement of resignation Wednesday. "I am shocked by the events of the past few days. Above all, I am stunned that misconduct on such a scale was possible in the Volkswagen Group," read the statement published on Volkswagen's website. "Volkswagen needs a fresh start – also in terms of personnel. I am clearing the way for this fresh start with my resignation," Winterkorn wrote in the same statement.
Reports also coming out that #Audi development boss Ulrich Hackenberg and #Porsche development boss Wolfgang Hatz have been dismissed
— Dave Humphreys (@LordHumphreys) September 24, 2015
In case you're looking for a new job, there a new vacancies in top management positions at Porsche and Audi. #VWGate
— Juliane Zielonka (@JulianeZielonka) September 24, 2015
News that Hatz and Hackenberg were leaving came as German transport minister, Alexander Dobrindt, accused Volkswagen of manipulating emissions tests not only in the U.S. but in Europe as well. “We will therefore continue to work intensively, together with Volkswagen, to find out exactly which vehicles are involved,” said Dobrindt Thursday, as reported by the Financial Times.
Nearly 11 million cars have been affected by the misleading software, causing uproar among Volkswagen owners and environmental protection agencies alike. The company first estimated Friday that 500,000 cars had been affected. Volkswagen issued a recall for all cars that were affected, which range from diesel-run Jettas to Audis to Beetles, and customers worldwide have demanded refunds or financial restitution. 
The Environmental Protection Agency has begun a probe into Volkswagen, and several affected customers have already filed civil suits against the company. 
The Spanish subsidiary of Volkswagen, Seat, said Thursday some of its vehicles may have been built with diesel engines that were rigged with software to improve the engine's emissions during regulatory testing. The Spanish Ministry of Industry launched a probe Wednesday into whether Seat's cars contained the software. Volkswagen has said that 11 million cars worldwide were built with the software.
"The minister has asked the Volkswagen group to urgently provide all the information necessary to determine the extent of the problem in general and specifically how it might affect Spain," the industry ministry said in a statement, The Local reported. "The minister expressed concern over this sort of situation and how it might affect economic recovery."
The global scandal broke Friday when the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency claimed Volkswagen had been cheating on emissions testing by deploying software that could sense when the car was being tested and thus lower the car's emissions. When the cars were being driven normally, they emitted up to 40 times the legal pollution limit in the United States.
 
Spain&#39;s Seat may have installed over 500,000 of Volkswagen&#39;s altered engines into its cars http://t.co/Nx25uWlJpG pic.twitter.com/xXQfxzFHHI
&mdash; El País in English (@elpaisinenglish) September 24, 2015
 
Seat did not specify the number of vehicles that had the software installed, but told EL PAÍS, the Spanish newspaper, by email that it had "equipped some vehicles" with the engines containing the cheating software. Seat sold 378,586 vehicles in 2014, about 17 percent of them in Spain. Industry experts estimated that 250,000 to 300,000 vehicles with the altered engines could be in use. 
The subsidiary also said that its cars currently for sale did not contain the manipulative software. “All new vehicles sold by Seat in the European Union and equipped with EU 6 engines comply, without any exceptions, with all legal requirements and environmental regulations,” it told EL PAÍS.
Seat made a profit of 33 million euros the first quarter of 2015, after reporting losses for years, Bloomberg reported in April. Volkwagen's overall profits that quarter exceeded analysts' predictions, jumping by 17 percent. At the time, Volkswagen CEO Martin Winterkorn said the company was "optimally positioned to master the divergent trends in the global automotive markets."
Winterkorn resigned Wednesday amid pressure over the scandal. "As CEO I accept responsibility for the irregularities that have been found in diesel engines," he said in a statement, adding "Volkswagen needs a fresh start ... I am clearing the way for this fresh start with my resignation." 
Volkswagen AG admitted Thursday to manipulating the results of emissions tests in Europe, German Transport Minister Alexander Dobrindt said.
"We have been informed that also in Europe, vehicles with 1.6 and 2.0 liter diesel engines are affected by the manipulations that are being talked about," he said, according to Sky News. He said that it was unclear how many vehicles in Europe had been affected and said that the number would be “clarified in the coming days."
"For this reason, we will also carry on working intensively to find out exactly, together with VW, in detail which vehicles are affected so that we can further inform the public," Dobrindt added. Volkswagen said that it is “working on” a complete list of exhausted models, but “can’t yet say when it will be published,” the Local reported.
The company had previously admitted that up to 11 million cars could have been affected worldwide as part of a massive scandal where the company installed illicit “defeat device” software on Volkswagen cars that would falsify the results of emissions regulations tests.
The software was found to covertly deactivate pollutions controls when the car is being driven, and reactivate it if it detects an emissions test. The U.S. Environmental Protections Agency, which last Friday broke the revelations, found that the level of pollutant gases emitted by Volkswagen cars could be up to 40 times higher than standard limits.
At least 482,000 cars are set to be recalled and the company could face fines of over $18 billion in the U.S. alone.
CEO Martin Winterkorn stepped down Wednesday evening after the scandal. "As CEO I accept responsibility for the irregularities that have been found in diesel engines and have therefore requested the supervisory board to agree on terminating my function," Winterkorn said in a statement. "Volkswagen needs a fresh start... I am clearing the way for this fresh start with my resignation." He denied any knowledge of the illicit practices.
Meanwhile, sources told Reuters that the company plans to begin firing people who were found to be responsible for rigging the tests and will initiate a massive management shakeup Friday, when the supervisory board of Europe’s biggest carmaker is also expected to meet.
The company has halted sales of diesel vehicles in the U.S., faces a slew of lawsuits from angry customers, and is up for possible regulatory investigations and actions in Europe and Asia.
Pope Francis is championing a message of compassion for the poor, religious tolerance, immigration reform and environmental concern during his first trip to the United States this week, but businesses and governments in the host cities are associating his visit with something else entirely: dollar signs.
Thousands from all over the country are flocking to Washington, New York and Philadelphia to see the pope, and while local service industries can expect a boost in revenue from the papal visit, that tourism boom comes at a cost. Changes in transportation and sanitation schedules, increased security measures, traffic management and additional signage -- all of which costs money -- make it difficult to gauge the true cost of hosting a papal visit. 
Logistical Hurdles
There is no denying the amount of work that goes into preparing for a papal visit. While city officials were vague about cost estimates, papal visits in the past have cost cities big dollars. In 2010, the pope visited Spain, which cost Spanish taxpayers more than 14.5 million euros ($16.5 million), Spanish media reported. Pope Francis' trip to the U.S. is likely to cost tens of millions.
In Philadelphia, the cost of city services such as trash removal during the pope's visit is being covered by the World Meeting of Families, the Catholic organization hosting the pope's visit. And since Francis' visit has been designated as a "national special security event" by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, there will be multi-jurisdictional funding for security.
Pope Francis and President Barack Obama wave during an arrival ceremony at the White House, Sept. 23, 2015.  Photo: Getty Images
With Pope Francis' visit taking place in the heart of Philadelphia, coordinating a secure event is a massive logistical challenge. Security agencies involved in the event include city and Pennsylvania State Police, the Department of Homeland Security, the FBI, the CIA, the Secret Service, the Italian police and the Vatican's Swiss Guard. Coordinating the work of all those organizations can be a challenge, said Jack Ferguson, president of the Philadelphia Convention and Visitors Bureau.
Francis' visit to New York City is expected to be especially difficult as 90 percent of the world's leaders will also be in town for the United Nations' 70th General Assembly. Officials would not say how much the security measures -- which include thousands of federal, state and city law enforcement officers on the streets and on rooftops -- would cost, but said that no expense would be spared.
The other major hurdle facing the host cites involves transportation. Moving large numbers of people in an urban area smoothly from event to event is not an easy feat, and alternate routes will be needed for people trying to get around the congestion. Gridlock traffic conditions are predicted in all three cities.
"You have to shut down certain streets … and naturally you’ll have spilloff; our streets are narrow," said Ferguson. "So how do you move people and protect the safety of all? Those are the complexities of it."
Two men paint a mural of Pope Francis on the wall of a high-rise building in New York on Aug. 28, 2015. Francis is visiting the U.S. through Sunday, stopping in Washington, New York and Philadelphia. Photo: Getty Images
An Influx Of Tourists
Despite the burdens it will impose, the pope's trip has been eagerly anticipated because of the economic punch it is expected to pack. The visit was originally estimated to generate up to $418 million of economic impact for Philadelphia, according to the World Meeting of Families, but the organization is now predicting that the number could now surpass $500 million. Local businesses in the service industry, mainly hotels and restaurants, will benefit the most, said Matt Cabrey, spokesman for the Greater Philadelphia Chamber of Commerce.
“The papal visit will have a positive effect on local businesses, as these unique, global events that take place in the community often do,” said Cabrey. “Most of the businesses in the service industry have made arrangements to have deliveries come in earlier or later than usual; they’ve stocked up on supplies and rented refrigerated trailers."
Wawa, a major convenience store chain in the Philadelphia region, has several locations in the heart of the papal events, so it should see a significant increase in business. Wawa has bumped up its staffing for Francis' visit, and is bringing in staff from stores outside the city to help with the increased demand, said public relations manager Lori Bruce. For the papal visit, Wawa has planned to have greeters who will assist tourists who might be unfamiliar with the store's layout. The convenience store chain has also donated roughly a million water bottles, and will be distributing the water at stations to help keep crowds hydrated.
"We feel it is our obligation to be open and to serve," said Bruce. "We want to make sure we have products and services people will need ... from quick food items to hydration."
Pope Francis bobbleheads are displayed at a souvenir store in Washington, Aug. 27, 2015.  Photo: Getty Images
In Washington, Robin McClain, vice president of marketing and communications at Destination DC, a trade group of 850 businesses and organizations in the travel and tourism sector, views the papal visit as a gain in promoting the city to new visitors. 
“I think it positively impacts the city with visitors who are coming in on the Metro midweek,” said McClain. “So that’s a positive in terms of more transportation dollars being spent. People also could be spending more money at hotels, and come into the city to just make a day of it. We see it as a net positive as promoting D.C. It’s a moment in our culture, but with Pope Francis, it almost feels like a pop culture moment. He’s brought a different flavor, and I think people are responding to that.”
Spectators gather at the Ellipse to catch a glimpse of Pope Francis along the route his popemobile will take in Washington, D.C., Sept. 23, 2015. Photo: Getty Images
Although it can be difficult to pinpoint exactly how many tourists are expected to flock to the host cities for the pope’s visit, clues can be found in such events in the past. Pope John Paul II's visit to Washington in 1979 drew roughly 175,000 people to the National Mall, and 200,000 people requested tickets to Pope Benedict XVI's Mass in D.C.'s Nationals Park, but only 46,000 showed up.  The pope’s main event in D.C. took place Wednesday at the Basilica of the National Shrine of the Immaculate Conception and was ticketed for 25,000 to attend, but McClain said many more people are expected to show up just to try and catch a glimpse of the pope. In Philadelphia, 10,000 free tickets for Francis' Mass were sold out in 30 seconds.
Ferguson, the president of the Philadelphia Convention and Visitors Bureau, recalled pulling off the highway in the middle of the night recently for a quick stop at a gas station. He saw a large photo of Pope Francis accompanied by information about his trips to Philadelphia, Washington and New York City, and was excited when he saw the number of people reading the poster and expressing an interest in the pope's visit.
"You can’t buy this kind of exposure," said Ferguson.
Not What It Seems
Once the excitement is over, however, sometimes extravaganzas like papal visits or major sporting events turn out to have had less of an economic impact than predicted, economists said.
“It’s a little more mixed bag then you would expect. Normally, you would think a huge amount of people descending on your city with wallets thick with spending money would be a good thing, but the vast majority of people attending pope-related events are going to be residents who will be going to the papal Mass, for example, and not the shopping mall, and that’s not a gain,” said Victor Matheson, an economics professor at the College of the Holy Cross in Massachusetts.
Pope Francis receives a kiss outside the Apostolic Nunciature (embassy) to the United States in Washington, Sept. 23, 2015. Photo: Getty Images
This type of displacement is called a substitution effect, which occurs when local events alter residents' spending habits. A so-called crowding-out effect is also likely to occur, according to Matheson, and happens when visitors attending a large event displace any other type of economic activity that could be occurring. This happened when Salt Lake City hosted the 2002 Winter Olympics. The event benefited hotels and restaurants, but was terrible for ski resorts since everyone in town was attending the Olympics and not skiing at the slopes.
Not all of the money being spent by tourists in the host cities during the papal visit will be stay in the local economy either. Hotels raise room rates due to increased demand, but the additional revenue is sent to corporate headquarters.
The papal tourist might also be vastly different from the average tourist looking to shop and be entertained, said Terry Rephann, a regional economist at the Weldon Cooper Center for Public Service in Virginia.
"This is a religious event, so my guess is they are very frugal travelers," said Rephann. "I would expect that they would probably be spending less than the average tourist. One more consideration would be that typically when you have festivals like this, you have non-local vendors that flood the economy. With all that said, the headline, economic impacts that you hear for these events tend to be much, much smaller than the actual economic impact."
Correction: A previous version of this article incorrectly stated the College of the Holy Cross is in Maryland. It is not in Maryland. It is located in Massachusetts. The article has since been updated to reflect this fact.
Norway’s central bank unexpectedly cut its key interest rate Thursday to an all-time low, sending the Norwegian krone tumbling. After the Oslo-based Norges Bank slashed its deposit rate by 25 basis points to 0.75 percent -- citing a fall in investments triggered by a steady decline in oil prices -- the country’s currency fell to its weakest level in more than 13 years against the dollar, Bloomberg reported.
Following the rate cut, the krone slid more than 2 percent to 8.46 per dollar, and 2.3 percent against the euro.
“Growth prospects for the Norwegian economy have weakened, and inflation is projected to abate further out,” central bank Governor Oeystein Olsen said in a statement announcing the rate cut, adding that lower demand for goods and services from the energy sector would hit other parts of the economy and increase unemployment.
However, a weaker krone would push inflation -- which stood at 2.9 percent in August -- even higher in the short term.
“They [the central bank] cut the rate and are now saying that most likely there will be another cut before Christmas and most likely another cut in 2016,” Frank Jullum, chief economist at Danske Bank Markets, told the New York Times.  “This was even more negative compared to what we had expected.”
Almost half of Norway’s exports are related to petroleum. As a result, the recent plunge in crude prices has hit the country hard.
In the second quarter, Norway’s exports fell 0.1 percent, while petroleum and shipping industry output declined 1 percent. Norway’s GDP also rose only 0.2 percent in the second quarter, falling slightly from a 0.3 percent rise in the previous quarter.
In order to cut costs, oil companies, including the state-controlled Statoil ASA, have reportedly cut more than 35,000 jobs, pushing the unemployment rate to 4.3 percent in May -- its highest level in about a decade.
European shares traded mostly flat Thursday, after a lackluster day at Asian bourses. Worries over eventual tightening of U.S. monetary policy, exacerbated by a contraction in China’s manufacturing sector, continued to weigh on investor sentiment, with the pan-European STOXX 600 fluctuating between minor gains and losses.
London’s FTSE 100 and France’s CAC 40 were both trading flat, while Germany’s DAX was down 0.9 percent. The euro, meanwhile, bounced back to $1.1193 from three-week low of $1.1105 Wednesday.
“The markets have been very volatile of late, but the general trend is still down. The China slowdown is not helping,” Berkeley Futures Associate Director Richard Griffiths told Reuters, referring to a drastic slowdown in Chinese factory output reported Wednesday.
The preliminary Caixin China Manufacturing Purchasing Managers’ Index, which is a gauge of nationwide manufacturing activity, fell to 47 in September, compared to a final reading of 47.3 in August -- making it the lowest reading in six years. The figures rekindled worries over the health of the world’s second-largest economy and dragged global equities into the red Wednesday.
On Thursday, Asian markets mostly recovered from the previous day’s sharp losses, with the exception of Japan, where the Nikkei 225 index -- opening for the first time since Friday -- closed down 2.8 percent.
“The Tokyo stock market is expected to remain volatile in the near term as investors closely examine the potential impact of the Volkswagen’s emissions scandal on Japan’s auto industry,” Tomoichiro Kubota, a senior market analyst at Tokyo’s Matsui Securities, said. Shares of car companies such as Mitsubishi, Mazda and Suzuki, which are among the biggest firms on the Nikkei, all closed down Thursday.
Elsewhere in Asia, China’s Shanghai Composite Index closed up 0.9 percent, while Hong Kong’s Hang Seng ended the day nearly 1 percent in the red. In India, the S&P BSE Sensex and the larger Nifty were both up over 0.4 percent.
SAN FRANCISCO (Reuters) - In April of 2015, Volkswagen of America, Inc. sent letters to California owners of diesel-powered Audis and Volkswagens informing them of an “emissions service action” affecting the vehicles.
Owners were told they would need to take their cars to a dealer for new software to ensure tailpipe emissions were "optimized and operating efficiently."
The company didn’t explain that it was taking the action in hopes of satisfying government regulators, who were growing increasingly skeptical about the reason for discrepancies between laboratory emissions test results and real world pollution from Volkswagen’s diesel cars.
Officials at the California Air Resources Board and the EPA agreed in December of 2014 to allow a voluntary recall of the company’s diesel cars to fix what Volkswagen insisted was a technical – and easily solved - glitch. The recall was rolled out nationally over a period of months.
On Wednesday, California Air Resources Board spokesman Dave Clegern confirmed that the letters were part of that recall. “This is one of the fixes they presented to us as a potential solution. It didn’t work,” he said.
Volkswagen, which had no obligation at the time it initiated the recall to disclose the discussions that had led to it, declined to comment on the letter.
The controversy came to public attention last week after Volkswagen acknowledged it had deliberately deceived officials about how much its diesel cars polluted.
The recall letter instructed owners of certain 2010-2014 Volkswagen vehicles with 2-liter diesel engines to contact dealers for a software update in order to fix an issue with the malfunction indicator light illuminating.
“If the [light] illuminates for any reason, your vehicle will not pass an IM emissions inspection in some regions,” the letter warned, noting that California required the update before it would renew vehicle registrations.
"The vehicle's engine management software has been improved to assure your vehicle's tailpipe emissions are optimized and operating efficiently," read the letter, which said an earlier software update increased the likelihood of the light illuminating.
It is customary for carmakers to perform updates to their cars through dealerships to fix or update software.
Volkswagen has said that 11 million of its cars around the world could be affected in the scandal that broke last week. The German company has set aside 6.5 billion euros ($7.3 billion) in its third-quarter accounts to help cover the costs of any fallout.
The U.S. Justice Department has launched a criminal probe and at least 25 proposed class actions on behalf of consumers have already been filed in seven states.
Chinese President Xi Jinping pledged to significantly reduce restrictions on foreign investment and strengthen protection for intellectual property, during a meeting Wednesday with U.S. and Chinese business leaders in Seattle, the latest stop on his U.S. tour.
Xi told a group of 30 CEOs from companies including Microsoft, Starbucks, Apple, Boeing, Amazon and Berkshire Hathaway that “in the long run ... the fundamentals of the Chinese economy are good," addressing concerns caused by the country's recent stock market volatility and slowing economic growth.
The CEOs of 15 Chinese firms, including Alibaba, Lenovo and Tencent also took part in the event. Representatives from Facebook, Google and Twitter were notably absent from the meeting, despite being among the most influential technology companies in the world; China blocks those companies' websites.
“Without reform, there will be no driving force; without opening up, there will be no progress,” Xi said through an interpreter. "There is good news and I believe there will be more good news in the future."
Xi told the assembled business leaders that new intellectual property courts in the country were “working smoothly,” and would help provide much stronger protection for foreign and Chinese companies. Intellectual property theft is a major concern for many foreign firms in China, which sees unauthorized copies of a wide range of consumer products, from designer handbags to smartphones, on its black market.
He added that Chinese companies wanted the U.S. to ease restrictions on civilian high-tech exports to China and to lower barriers to Chinese investment in the U.S., and that China wanted to cooperate with the U.S. on a range of enterprises, including clean energy, finance and manufacturing, according to the Wall Street Journal.
All the U.S. CEOs at the event signed a letter to Xi and U.S. President Barack Obama, urging them to support a bilateral investment treaty that would provide a framework for broader investment in the economies of both countries, according to the Guardian.
In addition, plans were announced Wednesday for Chinese companies to purchase 300 Boeing aircraft, valued at about $38 billion at list prices, as the U.S. aircraft manufacturer also revealed that it is set to open its first aircraft finishing facility outside of its home country in China.
News of the Chinese finishing facility has riled U.S. labor unions, and Republican presidential hopeful Donald Trump, who criticized the move for taking jobs out of the U.S., according to Reuters.
Xi will travel to Washington D.C. on Thursday to meet with Obama.
TOKYO (Reuters) - Asian shares were subdued on Thursday after more dour economic news in China and the United States prompted a bruising selloff the previous day.
Worries that an eventual tightening in U.S. monetary policy and slower growth in China could knock the global economy have scared off investors, particularly those invested in stocks and commodities.
MSCI's broadest index of Asia-Pacific shares outside Japan crawled up 0.2 percent after having posted their biggest single-day fall in almost a month the previous day.
Shanghai shares gained 0.7 percent after losing more than 2 percent on Wednesday, while South Korea's Kospi nudged up 0.4 percent. Hong Kong's Hang Seng, however, shed 0.6 percent.
Japan's Nikkei average, opening for the first time since Friday after a string of national holidays, tumbled 2.3 percent, edging near its seven-month low touched earlier this year. Shares of Japanese automakers sagged in a delayed reaction to the Volkswagen diesel emissions scandal.
The scandal has raised fears among economists that it could develop into a major threat to Europe's largest economy.
Wall Street also lost ground on Wednesday, dragged down by economic reports portraying U.S. factory growth as tepid and China in its worst manufacturing contraction since the global financial crisis.
"Investors will be cautious for the time being. Markets will become steadier only when uncertainties over Chinese economy and the U.S. monetary policy diminish," said Masahiro Ichikawa, senior strategist at Sumitomo Mitsui Asset Management.
Although shares in Volkswagen rose 5.2 percent on Wednesday, they had lost about a third of its value in the previous two sessions.
In the currency market, the euro was helped by comments from European Central Bank President Mario Draghi that the bank needed more time to decide on whether further stimulus is required.
The euro rose to $1.1182 , having bounced back from three-week low of $1.1105 touched on Wednesday.
The specter of higher U.S. interest rates and slower growth in China continues to weigh on many emerging market currencies, however.
The Brazilian real sank to an all-time low of 4.179 per dollar, clobbered by a recession, fiscal deficit and political instability following corruption allegations against leading politicians in Brazil, which has the world's seventh largest economy.
The Australian dollar, often used as a proxy for China-related trades, struggled near a two-week low of $0.6989.
"Unfortunately for Australians, the lack of desire to own the currency has more to do with external than domestic factors. The primary source of weakness stems from China, the country's largest trading partner," wrote Kathy Lien, managing director of FX Strategy for BK Asset Management.
The yen has been stuck in a narrow trading range over the past week and last stood little changed at 119.97 to the dollar.
Oil prices slipped toward the lower end of their trading ranges in the past week as the bullish impact from lower crude inventories was offset by large gasoline builds that raised concerns about high autumn fuel supplies.
Brent futures crawled up 0.6 percent to $48.04 per barrel, after having lost 2.7 percent on Wednesday.
Platinum, used in catalystic converters to clean up exhaust emissions, slid to its lowest level in more than 6-1/2 years on Wednesday on fears about reduced demand from the auto sector.
It last stood at $944.95 per ounce, having fallen to as low as $924.50.
Volkswagen Group's embattled former chief executive, who resigned Wednesday amid a growing scandal that the car company allegedly knowingly rigged its vehicles to pass strict diesel emissions tests under false pretenses, still has a chance of receiving an eight-figure pension, despite accepting responsibility for what he called "irregularities" that were found, according to multiple reports. Martin Winterkorn is owed a pension worth just about $32 million, which is nearly twice what he was compensated annually, Fortune reported.
Specifically, Volkswagen admitted this week that 11 million cars it manufactured had doctored software installed that would indicate lower levels of pollutants as a means to make them appear more environmentally friendly than they actually were, allowing them to pass U.S. Environmental Protection Agency emissions tests that they would have otherwise failed. Prior to the revelation, Winterkorn was earning about $18.5 million per year and ranked as the second-highest-paid CEO in Europe.
“As CEO I accept responsibility for the irregularities that have been found in diesel engines and have therefore requested the supervisory board to agree on terminating my function as CEO,” Winterkorn said in a statement announcing his resignation. “I am doing this in the interests of the company even though I am not aware of any wrongdoing on my part.”
Members of Volkswagen's supervisory board are pictured Wednesday informing the media about Martin Winterkorn's resignation. Photo: Alexander Koerner/Getty Images
The Environmental Protection Agency estimated that 482,000 Volkswagens with diesel engines in the U.S. were emitting as much as 40 times the legal limit of pollutants, which is the same amount as nearly 19 million cars, Bloomberg reported.
The company was scrambling to remove any reference of its claims of having cars with clean diesel, according to the Hill, which highlighted one now-deleted tweet posted five months ago that read: “Diesel cars are really smoky and sluggish? That’s the past. The 2015 Golf TDI is, however, a lot of fun.”
In response to the automotive and environmental scandal, Volkswagen owners around the world reacted with anger on social media, with one person tweeting that she felt "Deceived & disrespected!"
By Nathan Layne and Nandita Bose
CHICAGO (Reuters) -- Wal-Mart Stores Inc is seeking price cuts from suppliers that produce goods inChina, saying the retailer should share in the savings generated by China's devaluation of the yuan, people with knowledge of the matter said.
Wal-Mart managers in recent weeks have contacted more than 10,000 suppliers in various countries, all of which have manufacturing facilities in China, seeking cost cuts of 2 percent to 6 percent on mainly general merchandise including home furnishings, apparel, health and beauty products, appliances, electronics and toys, according to a consultant who advised Wal-Mart on the move and spoke on condition of anonymity to protect his relationship with the retailer.
The company is telling suppliers that they should pass on the savings arising from the yuan devaluation so Wal-Mart can achieve EDLC, or "everyday low cost," its term for the tight cost controls needed to keep prices low for consumers, according to executives at two vendors of durable goods, who also requested anonymity. Both were asked for cuts in the lower half of the 2 percent to 6 percent range. Both said they planned to negotiate a reduction in the proposed cuts.
Wal-Mart spokeswoman Deisha Barnett declined to comment on whether the company was seeking price cuts in China-made goods. With almost $500 billion in annual sales and a globally diversified supply chain, Wal-Mart holds tremendous sway over its vendors, which could risk their business with the retailer by pushing back too hard on its requests to lower costs
The move by the world's largest retailer follows efforts by other retailers to benefit from a cheaper yuan. A senior Toys R Us official told Reuters last month that the company was "engaging" with suppliers about improving terms. Home Depot Inc Chief Financial Officer Carol Tome said they had identified potential cost savings from the currency's decline and would pursue them.
Last month, China devalued its tightly controlled currency in a bid to boost growth and help flagging exports. The nearly 2 percent cut on Aug. 11 was the most significant downward adjustment to the yuan since 1994. The currency is down 2.9 percent versus the dollar so far this year, making exports from the country less expensive when purchased with dollars, the currency most often used in supplier contracts.
Wal-Mart's latest overture to suppliers comes as it seeks to push through broader changes designed to lower its costs through changes to vendor agreements. In June, Wal-Mart began asking all suppliers to pay fees to store inventory in Wal-Mart warehouses and in some cases has sought to extend the time Wal-Mart takes to pay its vendors.
Wal-Mart has been struggling to shore up its profit margins, which have been weighed down by a $1 billion investment announced earlier this year to increase wages for half a million store-level workers and other cost pressures. The company's stock is down 26 percent so far this year.
Barnett said the new vendor agreements are aimed at making its terms more consistent across suppliers, and were part of its efforts to keep prices low at the store.
"It's change at the end of the day and that's not always easy, but we think what is best for our business and ultimately best for our customers," Barnett said.
Several vendors told Reuters they have pushed back, arguing the new terms would increase costs and make it difficult to supply products at the low prices Wal-Mart demands.
Wal-Mart likely will face resistance to the request related to the cheaper yuan as well, suppliers and consultants said.   
Burt Flickinger, managing director of retail consultancy Strategic Resource Group, said he expected retailers in general to seek discounts for goods from China because of theyuan devaluation and excess of production capacity in the country.
In Wal-Mart's case, Flickinger said, the move reflects an effort to get help from suppliers to "fund lower prices" as the retailer grapples with the costs of an increase to a $9-per-hour starting wage and new investments in its ecommerce platform.
(Reporting by Nathan Layne and Nandita Bose, Editing by David Greising, Peter Henderson and John Pickering)
Volkswagen owners are furious, and they're forming a mob in social media to bang on the gates of their once-beloved brand. Once a brand with a cult-like following, Volkswagen diesel owners are turning on the company with equal passion in the wake of assertions that the automaker used software to defeat emissions tests.
Volkswagen has spent years branding its diesel engines as "clean diesel" to erase Americans' memories of the noisy, smoky truck-like diesels of the past. Volkswagen has spent an estimated $164 million on TV ads in the U.S. in 2015, $77 million of which promoting its diesel models, according to measurement firm iSpot TV.

It worked. Buyers chose Volkswagen diesels for their efficiency and for their environmental credentials: the 2009 Jetta TDI was named Green Car of the Year by Green Car Journal. Cars.com named the 2015 Passat TDI its "Eco-friendly Car of the Year."
Yet now, the backlash is almost as strong. Volkswagen has yet to announce how it plans to remedy the situation, or if it will at all. But owners aren’t waiting to use the #BuyBackMyTDI, #VWGate and #VWCares hashtags to vent their rage. Volkswagen has gone into a social media bunker. It's official account (@VW) hasn’t posted a tweet since Sept. 17, one day before the EPA went public with its accusation.
 
I was so proud of my TDI Jetta. Now I never want to drive it again. @VW when will you contact owners? Deceived &amp; disrespected! #vwcares
&mdash; Laurie Dewan (@LaurieDewan) September 22, 2015
 
 
@VW does VW care to buy back my 2015 Beetle Convertible TDI clean diesel at full purchase price? On account of their deceit. #VWcares
&mdash; Aimee Renee  (@AimeeRenee37) September 22, 2015
 
 
I feel guilty driving my car, now. I researched hybrids and &quot;clean&quot; diesel... I chose poorly. @VW should replace my car. #VWCares
&mdash; Diane Bramos (@MrsAwwsum) September 23, 2015
 
Even worse, car buyers concerned about the environment and trying to do the right thing are now coming to grips with the reality they've been spewing 40 times the amount of asthma-causing emissions allowed under the Clean Air Act. James McComb, a student in Long Island, New York, listed his 2002 Jetta for $4,500 and has yet to receive a single response, despite the fact that the care has only 91,000 miles on it, passed inspection and has new tires and a reliable transmission, he told MarketWatch.
“Maybe there really is a smear on the brand,” he told the website, adding he invested a $5,645 into the car on top of his purchase. McComb’s car is not among the models included on the EPA recall list.
 
Destroying the planet with their emissions VW is, yessss&#10;&#10;#StarWars #VWcares pic.twitter.com/qCAr4vQkjg
&mdash; Yoda (@JediEconomist) September 22, 2015

 
Volkswagen could be liable for civil penalties of up to $37,500 per car, or $18 billion. Yet the company has said nothing about how it will reimburse customers and has provided no information on how a fix would affect customers’ cars. Stock shares plummeted by more than 20 percent when markets opened after the EPA’s announcement, and economic forecasters suggested the damage could be bad enough to impact the value of the euro.
The most Volkswagen has offered is a personal apology from CEO Martin Winterkorn before his exit from the company was announced Wednesday.
“I personally am deeply sorry that we have broken the trust of our customers and the public,” he said in a statement Sunday. “We will cooperate fully with the responsible agencies with transparency and urgency, to clearly, openly, and completely establish all of the facts of this case ... We at Volkswagen will do everything that must be done in order to re-establish the trust that so many people have placed in us, and we will do everything necessary in order to reverse the damage this has caused.”
Now that Volkswagen Group CEO Martin Winterkorn has resigned amid a growing scandal over the company’s cheating on U.S. vehicle-emissions tests, legal experts are eyeing the U.S. Justice Department to see whether it lives up to its promise to pursue individuals inside firms that break the law. Criminal charges against Volkswagen are all but certain. Less certain is whether engineers and executives at the German automaker will be frog-marched to federal prison.
“There’s no question there was a scheme to defraud the Environmental Protection Agency using electronic communications, and that’s enough for the Department of Justice to file criminal charges against individuals,” said Thomas E. Loeser, a former federal prosecutor who works for the Seattle law firm Hagens Berman Sobol Shapiro LLP, which is representing Volkswagen customers in a class-action lawsuit filed in the U.S. District Court in San Francisco this week.
The world’s largest automaker has already set aside more than $7 billion to fix cars, pay fines and settle lawsuits with angry consumers for putting software in at least five Volkswagen and Audi models that was aimed at deceiving environmental regulators. However, that sum is less than one-half of the $18 billion Volkswagen faces in U.S. federal and state regulatory fines. Because the company has already admitted to the deception, it’s a perfect case for testing the Justice Department’s new policy to go after executives of firms engaged in wrongdoing.
“Volkswagen is the ultimate test for whether regulators are going to hold auto companies responsible,” said Clarence Ditlow, the head of the Center for Auto Safety, a Washington-based nonprofit organization. “The single best way to change corporate behavior is to send the responsible executives to jail -- doesn’t matter whether it’s 60 days, six months or six years, just going to jail is a game changer.”
Volkswagen AG says a scandal over falsified U.S. vehicle-emission tests could affect 11 million of its cars around the world. Above, the exhaust system of a Volkswagen Passat TDI diesel car is seen in Esquibien, France, Sept. 23, 2015. Photo: Reuters/Mal Langsdon
Ditlow and others see parallels in the federal government’s handling of the General Motors Co.’s ignition-switch defect, in which people inside the firm covered up flaws in 2.6 million older sedans linked to more than 100 deaths and hundreds of injuries.
Just a week before the Volkswagen scandal exploded, the Justice Department settled with GM in a so-called deferred-prosecution agreement. The deal required GM to pay $900 million for failing to disclose the deadly safety defect. But so far nobody at the company has faced criminal charges despite revelations that the flaw was identified years earlier and discreetly fixed without warning the public.
Thomas Donaldson, a professor of legal studies and business ethics at the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania, said deferred-prosecution agreements have long been the targets of criticism and that the federal government is likely to come down on Volkswagen as hard as possible.
“The Department of Justice is an entity with its finger to the political wind,” Donaldson said. “You can predict they will use hammer and tongs to move toward any criminal prosecution they can, especially considering the criticism they faced in the wake of the financial crisis on how they settled with the banks.”
But what if the people responsible for deceiving U.S. federal and state regulators are located at Volkswagen’s headquarters in Wolfsburg, Germany?“For many years, the U.S. has charged foreign individuals for antitrust criminal violations and those individuals just never come back to the country to be prosecuted,” attorney Loeser said. “In this case, Germany is a country with which we have a strong relationship, and it’s conceivable that the bad actors in Germany could be extradited.”
By Caroline Valetkevitch
NEW YORK (Reuters) -- U.S. stocks ended down slightly on Wednesday, led by losses in materials and energy shares as weak Chinese and U.S. factory data added to growth worries.
Trading was choppy once gain, with the S&P 500 briefly trading higher following afternoon comments by Chinese President Xi Jinping that his country was capable of maintaining a relatively high growth rate for a long time.
The S&P 500 is down 2.8 percent since Thursday, when the Federal Reserve decided to hold interest rates near zero.
Data showed U.S. manufacturing growth stayed at a two-year low in September, while Chinese factory activity shrank to a 6-1/2 year low in the month, underscoring worries about demand.
Boeing Co said it had won orders and commitments from China for aircraft valued at about $38 billion at list prices. But its shares fell 1.7 percent to $131.67.
The S&P materials index, down 2.1 percent, led the decline for the S&P 500 for a second day, followed by the energy index, which was down 1.4 percent.
U.S. crude oil futures ended down 4.1 percent, while shares of Chevron were down 1.5 percent at $76.12.
"The market looks tired and flat, and there is some hesitation to commit with earnings coming out in two weeks and worries about China and the impact on companies that do a lot of business overseas," said Daniel Morgan, senior portfolio manager at Synovus Trust Company in Atlanta.
The Dow Jones industrial average fell 50.58 points, or 0.31 percent, to 16,279.89, the S&P 500 lost 3.98 points, or 0.2 percent, to 1,938.76 and the Nasdaq Composite dropped 3.98 points, or 0.08 percent, to 4,752.74.
Worries over a China-led global economic slowdown and uncertainty over when the Fed may raise rates have left investors skittish.
S&P 500 earnings are projected to decline 3.9 percent in the third quarter from a year ago, Thomson Reuters data showed.
Volume was light due to the Yom Kippur holiday. About 5.9 billion shares changed hands on U.S. exchanges, below the roughly 8 billion daily average for the past 20 trading days, according to Thomson Reuters data.
First Niagara Financial was up 14.5 percent at $10.26 after Bloomberg reported the regional bank was exploring a sale.
Declining issues outnumbered advancing ones on the NYSE by 1,784 to 1,242, for a 1.44-to-1 ratio on the downside; on the Nasdaq, 1,609 issues fell and 1,185 advanced for a 1.36-to-1 ratio favoring decliners.
The S&P 500 posted 1 new 52-week high and 38 lows; the Nasdaq recorded 24 new highs and 135 lows.
(Editing by Nick Zieminski)
The scandal unfolding at Volkswagen Group around its pollution control systems may be the largest case of its kind in the U.S., but it’s far from the first. Environmental regulators in recent decades have launched more than a dozen cases against automakers, accusing them of tweaking or outfitting diesel engines to outsmart pollution tests meant to improve air quality. The result is thousands of recalled or upgraded vehicles -- and millions of tons of toxic air particles spewing into the air.
Volkswagen was one of the first car companies to pay penalties for using pollution “defeat devices” after the 1970 Clean Air Act took root. In 1973, the automaker, based in what was then West Germany, told the Environmental Protection Agency that it sold around 25,000 vehicles equipped with devices that overrode the cars’ emissions control systems. Volkswagen settled with the EPA and the U.S. Justice Department in 1974, agreeing to pay $120,000 in penalties -- or $644,000 in today’s dollars -- and update future models of its cars.
The four-decade-old penalty pales in comparison to what Volkswagen is facing today. The company admitted Tuesday that 11 million of its diesel-powered cars were programmed to cheat EPA emissions tests by faking levels of the pollutants they produce. If each car is found to violate the Clean Air Act, Volkswagen could face penalties of $18 billion, EPA officials said. That’s about six times the largest existing Clean Air Act penalty. Hyundai and Kia in November agreed to pay a combined $300 million as part of a settlement for overstating vehicle fuel-economy standards on 1.2 million cars.
Volkswagen Group CEO Martin Winterkorn resigned Wednesday amid the cheating debacle, accepting responsibility for the “irregularities” found in the diesel engines. “I am stunned that misconduct on such a scale was possible in the Volkswagen Group,” he said in a statement.
In this file photo Volkswagen CEO Martin Winterkorn attends the company's annual press conference on March 13, 2014, in Wolfsburg, Germany. Winterkorn resigned Wednesday. Photo: Sean Gallup/Getty Images
The history of charges and settlements involving defeat devices points to a recurring problem facing clean air agencies and the car companies they regulate. Auto safety experts say they’re worried such devices could become more common as regulators tighten rules for tailpipe emissions and the computers in vehicles grow more sophisticated.
“The modern automobile is now many multiple computers on wheels. If you can use computer programs to generate your defeat device, they’re much harder to detect,” said Clarence Ditlow, executive director of the Center for Auto Safety, a Washington lobbying group.
Overriding emissions control systems can improve speed and smooth handling in cars. The trade-off is an uptick in emissions of nitrogen oxide, carbon monoxide and particulate matter, which contribute to ozone pollution, soot and dust. Air pollution can cause serious lung- and heart-related illnesses, including asthma, bronchitis and heart attacks. About 44 percent of the U.S. population, or 138.5 million people, live in areas where pollution levels are often too dangerous to breathe, the American Lung Association reported this year.
“It’s a violation that hits at the heart of public health,” said Rena Steinzor, an environmental law expert and professor at the University of Maryland’s law school. “In some attenuated and slow way, it actually kills people.”
The EPA said Volkswagen used defeat devices in four-cylinder Volkswagen and Audi diesel cars from model years 2009 and 2015, which may have emitted as much as 40 times the legal limit of pollutants when they were on the road. Volkswagen officials said they are cooperating with the EPA investigation. The Justice Department also is investigating the company for possible criminal violations.
The latest Volkswagen scandal involved manipulating the vehicles’ software, so that cars would filter pollution when subject to testing, but not run emissions controls when on the road. In 1973, the process was much simpler. In certain vehicles, Volkswagen used temperature-sensing switches that activated the engine’s emissions controls when it reached between 68 to 86 degrees Fahrenheit -- the standard temperature for test conditions -- but shut down when engine temperature hit above or below that range, according to a July 1973 letter signed by William Ruckelshaus, then the EPA administrator.
A photo released on April 30, 1974, shows Volkswagen's first-generation Golf car. Photo: AFP/Getty Images
Around the same time, Chrysler agreed to recall and correct pollution control systems on 826,000 cars and light trucks after the EPA learned of similar temperature-sensing devices in the vehicles’ radiators. EPA officials said “virtually all” the company’s cars emitted nitrogen oxide at levels “considerably above the federal emission standard,” according to a 1974 news report. The recall cost Chrysler around $4.1 million, or $20 million today when adjusted for inflation.
By the 1990s, devices to sidestep emissions control systems were getting smarter, according to EPA complaints.
General Motors Co. in 1991 designed an engine control computer chip and installed it in 500,000 Cadillacs. The device was meant to reduce problems with engines stalling, but it also nearly tripled the output of carbon monoxide when the cars’ heating and cooling systems were running, officials said in 1995. The EPA and Justice Department settled with GM that year for $45 million.
The largest case landed three years later, when the EPA reached a $1 billion settlement with seven diesel truck manufacturers -- including Caterpillar Inc., Mack Trucks Inc. and Volvo Truck Corp. -- for installing equipment that defeated emissions controls. At the time in 1998, it was the largest U.S. civil penalty for violating environmental law, the EPA said.
“The diesel engine industry has illegally poured millions of tons of pollution into the air,” Janet Reno, then the U.S. attorney general, said in a 1998 statement. “These companies needlessly cost themselves millions of extra dollars by not complying with the law in the first place. Today’s settlement shows that an ounce of compliance is worth a pound of penalties.”
That same year, the EPA settled smaller cases with American Honda Motor Co. and Ford Motor Co. Honda was found to have disabled the misfire monitoring device on 1.6 million cars, depriving emission control inspectors of pollution data, and settled with EPA for $267 million. With Ford, officials found that 60,000 Econoline vans allowed for excessive pollution at highway speeds, resulting in a $7.8 million settlement.
Ditlow, the auto safety expert, said he believes automakers could continue to install defeat devices -- even in the wake of Volkswagen’s scandal -- unless federal officials take criminal action against Volkswagen executives.
“The single best way to change corporate behavior is to send the responsible executives to jail,” he said. “Volkswagen is the ultimate test for whether regulators are going to hold auto companies responsible.”
LESBOS, Greece – Eric Kempson is an unlikely hero. Two decades ago, the 60-year-old woodcarver, resembling a cross between Goldilocks and a 1980s rocker, left the south coast city of Portsmouth, England, swapping the dockyards of postindustrial Britain for the unspoiled Mediterranean coastline. Lately, though, his island paradise is anything but bucolic and tranquil: Along with his wife, Philippa, and teenage daughter Elleni, he’s been pulling hundreds of children from certain death in the Aegean Sea.
“I didn’t set out to do this,” he tells International Business Times, sitting in the garden of his idyllic village home, a few minutes away from the hot springs of Eftalou, revered among locals and tourists for its apparent healing properties. “But what would you do if thousands of desperate people washed up next to your house?”
Kempson leans forward. Behind him his wood carvings -- ornate jewelry, sculptures and even kitchen tools, made from local olive wood -- are on display. Next to him a table is laid for tea with china cups, saucers and a teapot for prospective guests.
The lush, verdant setting is hard to square with the scale of the humanitarian catastrophe happening on the shores below.
More than 2,500 people, the majority Afghan refugees, arrived on Lesbos Wednesday morning over a three-hour period. Some 40 rubber dinghies, each carrying around 60 people on a boat built for 30, made the journey from Turkey in heavy rain.
Elleni Kempson rescues a Syrian child who had just arrived on the Greek island of Lesbos. Photo: Eric Kempson  Kempson’s teams of volunteers were there to meet them. He has 60 volunteers, spread across the northern coast of Lesbos. A third come from the Boat Refugee Foundation in the Netherlands and include among their number a doctor. Another third are Norwegian volunteers, including rescue personnel, coast guard members, firefighters and paramedics. The final group comprise an assortment of men from gyms and boxing clubs around Denmark.
It’s a motley crew, Kempson admits, but it works. “Every day we’re in the water, saving lives.” Confronted with thousands of new arrivals in a few short hours, as many as 400 people are in the water, a majority of whom can’t swim.
“It’s chaos, utter chaos. Little babies, panicking men, and mothers screaming.”
Mostly, the volunteers are successful in their rescue missions. At other times the boats overturn before the rescuers can get to the refugees.
“We do all we can, but when [the refugees] are in the middle of the ocean…” He lets the silence speak for itself.
Last week, 34 refugees, almost half of them babies and children, drowned when their boat sank on the crossing.
The smugglers, Kempson says, are only interested in profits. At the moment they are finding it hard to keep up with demand, so most of the boats set to sail are not only overcrowded but unseaworthy. “You can still smell the glue on some of them,” Eric says. “They’re being pumped out on a production line … The quality is bad.”
Stories of boats bursting or splitting down the middle are not unusual. But getting people on dry land is just the beginning. Children often arrive dehydrated and, if they’ve been in the water a long time, suffering from hypothermia. The volunteers do their best to warm them up and rehydrate them.
A Syrian refugee holding a baby while swimming toward shore after his dinghy deflated more than 300 feet from the Greek island of Lesbos, on Sept 13, 2015. Photo: Reuters/Alkis Konstantinidis  More troubling are the young men who arrive with bullet wounds and shrapnel still inside them. One woman arrived, Kempson says, with shrapnel sticking out of her side. Another refugee, only 14 years old, had been shot and was wearing a bandage that hadn’t been changed for weeks. When medics undressed the wound, they discovered gangrene so extensive it was unlikely the boy would live.
“What do you say in such a situation?” Kempson says. “The boy was traveling alone, both his parents died in the [Syrian] war. How can you tell him, ‘You’re not going to make it'?”
Despite, or perhaps because of, the tragedies that unfold daily before them, the volunteers are a lively bunch, jibing and joking with one another. With their tanned skin and sun-bleached hair they could almost pass for tourists were it not for their neon high-visibility jackets.
Femke Spierling, a mother of two from northern Holland, is one of them. Currently unemployed, she decided to offer assistance for a few weeks. “It feels good to help,” she told IBT. “When you see the pictures of women and children on TV, and what they’ve been through, you want to do anything you can.”
One repeated complaint from volunteers is the almost complete absence of help from international aid organizations. “Where are they?” Spierling asks. The only people who are helping refugees on the island, she says, are the largely independent volunteers and tourists who stay to help.
Kempson is infuriated by the lack of assistance given by the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR). In eight months, according to Kempson, UNHCR has donated 7,500 bottles of water, enough to last the refugees for two days. Kempson gets through 4,000 bottles a day, donated by volunteers from around the world.
“[UNHCR] have done absolutely nothing,” he says. “They’ve stood by and watched as we do all the work.”
Eric Kempson cleans the toilets at a temporary camp for refugees on the Greek island of Lesbos. Photo: Eric Kempson  Other non-governmental organizations (NGOs) are little better, he says. “This crisis has really opened my eyes to the so-called work that NGOs do. A lot of them are just here to make money.”
Kempson can count on two hands the number of NGO representatives he’s met, from all over the world, who expound their humanitarian plans for the refugees – improved sanitation, accommodation, medical care – and then leave the island without doing anything.
It’s not the only battle he’s had to fight. The residents of Molyvos, the nearest town and a hub of tourism, have been very hostile to efforts to help the transitory refugee population.
Kempson has had his tires slashed and been spat on by angry locals. “They think that if we’re horrible to the refugees they won’t come.”
After receiving three portable toilets for use by the refugees, Kempson’s volunteers were forbidden to put them up by the local council. “The mayor of Mytilene [Lesbos’ capital] can see what’s going on, but he’s powerless to stop it. These people rule by fear.”
At an open meeting of Molyvos’ Ladies Association in June to discuss the refugee crisis, a woman stood up and said, “Shoot them on the beaches.”
Not all of the locals have responded in such a violent way. Many, Kempson says, have been the first to welcome families when they arrive and attend to the infants. Staff at seafront restaurants and hotels have donated bottles of water and blankets for children. The villagers of Skala Sikaminias, a few miles northeast of Molyvos, on whose shores many refugee boats arrive, have been incredibly kind, Kempson tells IBT.
The next months will be some of the hardest the volunteers have seen this year, he says. “In the winter we’re going to lose a lot of people through hypothermia. We need all the help we can get. But [the leaders of Molyvos] don’t see it that way. They don’t care.”
But Kempson is not a man easily dissuaded. He returns to his tool kit to resume building the storage units that will house supplies for the refugees. If anyone can find a practical solution to the problem, it’s him.
 
When Isabel Bucaram’s daughter, Huyam, was in first grade at a New York City public school seven years ago, she had to miss a class field trip to see “The Nutcracker” ballet at Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts in midtown Manhattan because the trip fell on Eid, a Muslim religious holiday.
That’s when Bucaram, a public interest attorney, decided to work for change. She talked to other parents and delved into a yearslong effort to lobby for Muslim holidays to be formally recognized in the country’s largest public school system. She joined the Coalition for Muslim School Holidays and spent years talking to public officials and campaigning for change.
It’s been a long seven years, but on Thursday, Bucaram’s daughter, now in eighth grade, will have the day off from school -- alongside some 1.1 million other public school students in New York City’s 1,800 schools. It’s the first time the school system will be closed for Eid al-Adha -- a Muslim holiday that commemorates the completion of the annual hajj pilgrimage in Mecca -- since Mayor Bill de Blasio announced the policy in March.
“It’s been so long since we started this. My kids are so excited about it. They feel good they don’t have to miss school to celebrate the holiday -- and they won’t have a ton of homework due the next day,” said Bucaram. “It feels like a real holiday to them now.”
New York City’s public schools already close for major Christian and Jewish holidays, and another day off has been added for the Lunar New Year on Feb. 8, which is celebrated by Asian-Americans.
Muslims make up a significant portion of enrollment in New York City’s schools. According to the New York City Department of Education, there are about 1 million Muslim residents across the five boroughs and about 10 percent of the students enrolled in public schools identify as Muslim. When de Blasio announced the change in March, he did so from PS/IS 30 in Brooklyn, where 36 percent of students were absent the last time Eid al-Adha fell on an instructional day.
There are several other school districts that close for Muslim holidays, in states like Massachusetts and New Jersey, for example. But the victory in New York, thanks to the school system’s size and visibility, is seen as an important step toward inclusion and acceptance by some American Muslim activists.
"When these holidays are recognized, it’s a sign that Muslims have a role in the political and social fabric of America," Ibrahim Hooper, a spokesman for the Council on American-Islamic Relations, told the New York Times in March.
To many American Muslims, the first Eid off marks a huge milestone during a time when some feel Islamophobia and anti-Muslim sentiment is particularly high.
"As an imam as well as a parent I am very happy," Imam Shamsi Ali, director of the Jamaica Muslim Center in Queens, told Agence France-Presse. "I'm sure this kind of policy from the government side will push Muslims further to feel a sense of belonging.”
For Bucaram, the experience of working for change has solidified her patriotism. When she was in Algeria over the summer, she said she told friends and relatives about the new policy. "They were so awed," said Bucaram. "They said, 'Only in America,' in a positive way. I was so proud of that. 
"My kids used to come to some of the rallies where we pushed for change, so it was a great lesson for them in civic participation," she added. "It let them know, if you want change, you can do something." 
LONDON -- Jony Ive loves cars. He owns some of the most iconic cars on the road today. With his Orange Fiat 500, Frogeye Austin-Healey Sprite, Bentley Mulsanne and Aston Martin Vanquish, it's clear Ive’s taste in cars has little to do with miles per gallon and everything to do with looks.
As Ive will almost certainly oversee the design of Apple’s first ever car, his taste is important. Just as the industrial-design sensibilities of Dieter Rams influenced the look of the iPhone, iPad and MacBook, Ive’s taste in cars is sure to influence a product that could take the world’s most valuable company to a whole new level.
In a rare and in-depth profile of Ive published by the New Yorker earlier this year, reporter Ian Parker recounted the following conversation, which took place in the back of Ive’s Bentley Mulsanne, a car Parker describes as fit for a head of state.
There are some shocking cars on the road,” Ive said. “One person’s car is another person’s scenery.” To his right was a silver sedan with a jutting lower lip. Ive said, quietly, “For example.” As the disgraced car fell behind, I asked Ive to critique its design: “It is baffling, isn’t it? It’s just nothing, isn’t it? It’s just insipid.”
The car in question was a Toyota Echo. It would be interesting to see what Ive thinks of Google’s car.
Every day there are rumors and reports of another technology company looking to get into the automotive market. Google, which has been developing its self-driving car for many years, is at the forefront of this push, but its car is more about the technology than design. We simply cannot imagine Apple producing a car that looks anything like Google’s car.
This Apple Car concept looks like something out of a science fiction film rather than something Apple might actually produce Photo: Franco Grassi
Apple is reportedly preparing to launch its car as early as 2019, under the codename Project Titan. The project received the green light from Tim Cook in early 2014 and reports suggest Apple will initially launch an electric car and then an autonomous vehicle at a later date.
Apple Philosophy
So what will Apple’s car look like? By talking to the people in the industry and those who know Ive and his work, IBT gleaned some idea.
“If you look at the Apple philosophy of less is more, then apply that to a car then you would have an Apple product," said Chris Longmore, founder if U.K.-based automotive design consultancy Drive. Longmore, who has worked with Ford, Nissan and Rolls Royce who believes it is a huge benefit for Apple to be starting with a blank sheet of paper. "If you take the iPhone and move into different areas, because the building blocks would be common throughout that, the DNA would be common across all the products and that’s how they should be looking to do it," he said.
That too is the view of Ive’s former boss, Martin Darbyshire, CEO and founder of London-based design company Tangerine, who worked with Ive for 18 months before he moved to Apple.
“Sometimes coming at something with a fresh perspective is fundamental to finding something new and developing a paradigm shift. Of all the design teams in the world one would expect Apple to do something interesting and different,” Darbyshire told International Business Times.
Creative Soul
Since the death of Steve Jobs in 2011, Jony Ive’s position at the company has become even more important with his former boss at Apple Robert Brunner saying: “Jony has assumed the creative soul of the company.”
If that is true then every stitch in the upholstery of the seats of the Apple car (though who’s to say it will even have seats) and every nut and bolt which holds the car together will have been designed and redesigned, and before anything is finalized it will have been approved by Ive’s meticulous eye.
Apple Senior Vice President of Design, Jony Ive, criticized alleged copycats in a rare moment during an interview at Vanity Fair's summit in San Francisco. Photo: Reuters
The motor industry is going through a seismic change as it edges closer to autonomous vehicles, and electric powered vehicles come commonplace. This change means that more than ever the user experience will become a key component of how cars are judged.
The appeal of an iPhone or iPad is not solely down to the industrial design of product, but is equally down to the experience of using it. The tight integration of software and hardware is key to making it an intuitive and rewarding experience -- and that will be even more important in the design of a car.
“I think for the car, [the user experience] is the opportunity that people are only beginning to dig into,” Darbyshire said. His company Tangerine has been working with Toyota on its in-car user experience and he describes the changes coming in the car industry as “very fundamental. All sorts of things will be behaving very differently.”
Ive has taken full control for the look and feel of Apple’s software as well as its hardware and given his dominant position in the company, it is likely that he will be doing the same thing for Apple’s car.
A Little Bit Bling
Ive’s design aesthetic has been described variously as old-school, traditional, emotionally warm modernism, and a little bit bling and if you look through the list of cars he has owned, his taste certainly tends towards the opulent classic rather than modern. Whether this translates directly to the Apple car remains to be seen, but he could use just a single aspects of any of these cars and integrate it into his car.
Designing a car seems like a very different process to designing a smartphone, but both Longmore and Darbyshire agree that the essential skills need to do it are the same. Darbyshire calls Ive “simply one of the best designers he has ever known” adding: “The skills he deploys don’t become exclusive to a market sector.”
“I don’t think it takes a different skill set and Apple will be getting the right people involved, but to get the skill set together to engineer a car is certainly all available,” Longmore said. Of course Ive will not be able to design the car alone and as is the case with everything at Apple, collaboration with the rest of the design team will be key.
Marc Newson
Central to this is likely to be Apple’s London-based designer Marc Newson, who shares with Ive a passion for cars and an obsession with detail. The pair visit Goodwood Festival of Speed in the south of England each year to see vintage sports cars displayed and raced. Newson has one up on Ive in the car design business, having produced a concept car for Ford as well as designing the interion of a jumbo jet for Australian airlinr Quantas, experience which could obviously transfer to designing the interior of a car.
Indeed Newson's concept design for Ford, which never went past the initial stage, sounds like something which could work as the car of the fiuture which Apple is building. The Newson-model Ford would have had revolving seats, a dashboard that rose and lowered, and a trunk that slid out like a drawer, according to a Vanity Fair profile of the pair.
Ford Automotive Operations Design Vice President J Mays (L) and acclaimed product designer Marc Newson show off their Ford 021C concept vehicle on display at Tokyo Motor Show in 1999. Photo: Reuters
The  designer is also an avid collector of cars, counting a 1950s Ferrari, a 1959 Aston Martin and a yellow 1969 Lamborghini among his collection.
Julan Hönig, who used to design Lamborghinis and has been at Apple for almost six years is also likely to play a key role in the design process given his background. Apple has been making some high-profile appointments to its top secret project, which is headed up by former Ford executive Steve Zadesky, attracting personnel from within the industry, including what could be one of its biggest rivals Tesla. However Ive is likely to keep his design team limited given the sensitive nature of the project and surround himself only with the people he trusts implicitly.
Apple launched its Think Different campaign almost 20 years ago and at the time Ive took it as a reminder of the importance of “not being apologetic, not defining a way of being in response to what Dell just did.” Today, Ive may be again considering that campaign, not in relation to Dell this time, but in response to what Ford, Toyota of Chrysler just did.
Designing something interesting and different is a relatively easy thing to accomplish from a design perspective, but taking that idea and applying it to something commercially successful is an entirely different matter.
“Can they produce something compelling, distinctive, with a good brand that offers something meaningful, then I would have thought the answer to that question would have to be yes,” Darbyshire said before adding: “To produce something that is a commercial success is a totally different matter. People have tremendous allegiance to different brands, different nationalities.”
Just as more Americans are embracing sports wagering to spice up their Saturdays, college athletics administrators are warning employees, players and even media partners not to get carried away with the craze. As pro sports leagues and government officials mull the legality of daily fantasy sports games and sports gambling in general, the NCAA took multiple steps this week to make it clear its officials aren’t budging from their anti-wagering stance
ESPN opted this week to discontinue its use of “cover alerts” – references to point spreads in sports gambling – during NCAA broadcasts after several college football administrators expressed discomfort with the gimmick, SportsBusiness Daily reported. Hours later, Oliver Luck, a top NCAA official, warned a group of athletic directors Tuesday that any player who participates in daily fantasy games will lose a year of athletic eligibility.
Luck’s reiteration of the NCAA’s bylaws contradicted the organization’s previous support for a 2006 law that distinguished fantasy sports as a game of skill rather than a form of betting. Professional sports leagues, especially the NFL, are full-fledged supporters of daily fantasy games, and some commissioners, including the NBA’s Adam Silver, openly advocate for federal legalization and control of sports gambling. But the NCAA, which cites the amateur status of its athletes as central to its mission and the key to its controversial policy of not paying its players, must walk a dubious line between opposing these games and openly profiting from the attention they bring to college sports.
“They’re stuck in the middle. They don’t want the courts, the Congress, society to see how bogus their claim that what drives the popularity of the sport is what’s different, that they’re not paying the athletes, that it’s not pro sports,” said Andy Schwarz, a founding partner at OSKR and consultant for former UCLA basketball player Ed O’Bannon’s antitrust lawsuit against the NCAA. “They don’t want all the trappings of pro sports, but they want the revenues of pro sports.”
The NCAA has made a strong effort to police sports gambling in recent years, even as the industry has gained unprecedented momentum throughout the United States. Americans will wager $95 billion, legally and illegally, on professional and college football in 2015, the American Gaming Association said this month. Daily fantasy sports outlets like DraftKings and FanDuel will give away more than $3 billion in prizes this year, according to ESPN, and have raised countless more millions through deals with pro sports organizations and investors.
Sorry bettors, ESPN says 'cover alerts' is one-and-done. h/t @Ourand_SBJ @steve_petrella http://t.co/hoIcbm7st6 pic.twitter.com/b4Ck61Dn1S
— The Linemakers (@TheLinemakers) September 22, 2015
Fantasy sports were formally legalized as part of the Unlawful Internet Gambling Enforcement Act of 2006 (UIGEA). At the time, the United States’ four major professional sports leagues and the NCAA expressed support for the measure, citing a desire to “preserve the integrity of our respective sports,” according to ESPN. Just five states have full bans on daily fantasy sports, though several others, including New Jersey, are considering similar legislation. Only four states – Nevada, Montana, Oregon and Delaware – allow legal sports gambling in the traditional sense.
While UIGEA became law years before the invention of daily fantasy sports, pro sports leagues have largely embraced the concept. The NFL’s 32 teams split more than $7 billion in revenue in 2014, thanks in no small part to the frenzied attention fantasy football generates. Most NFL teams have individual partnerships with FanDuel or DraftKings; some teams even have branded in-stadium lounges devoted to daily fantasy sports. The NBA has its own partnership with FanDuel, while the MLB, NHL and MLS have deals with DraftKings.
The NCAA is in a difficult position. While the organization previously supported the legalization of fantasy sports, the daily games have added a new wrinkle. FanDuel and DraftKings offer monetized wager pools based on NCAA football games, where users can select amateur players for their “teams” based on a fictionalized salary cap. For college administrators who have said over and over again that college football players are “student-athletes” rather than employees, the image of dollar signs next to player names is extremely problematic.
Administrators from multiple NCAA conferences, including the Pac-12 and the SEC, purportedly sent letters to FanDuel and DraftKings demanding they stop offering college football contests. Neither organization has responded. At the same time, advertisements for FanDuel and DraftKings are still running during college football games.
“The NCAA, I think, is in an even more precarious situation. Even though they haven’t jumped on the daily fantasy bandwagon, they were big supporters of the 2006 law that had the carve-out for fantasy sports,” said Keith Miller, a law professor at Drake University in Iowa. “Now, for them to say we are shocked that athletes might be engaging in daily fantasy sports is either disingenuous or hypocritical.”
Officials imposed their ban on daily fantasy games from a desire to protect the “integrity of the game,” a stance in line with the classic assertion that legalized sports gambling would open up athletics to corruption in the form of fixed outcomes and point-shaving.
“Fantasy sports leagues threaten both the integrity of the game and the well-being of student-athletes,” Mark Strothkamp, the NCAA’s associate director of enforcement, told ESPN.com. “NCAA member schools have defined sports wagering as putting something at risk – such as an entry fee – with the opportunity to win something in return, which includes fantasy league games. Because of this, student-athletes, coaches, administrators and national office staff may not participate in a fantasy league game with a paid entry fee.”
To attempt to ban participation in paid fantasy games is to deny a fundamental reality about American sports. Fans are betting on football, whether openly or otherwise. ESPN has paid the NCAA billions of dollars to broadcast college football games, including the playoffs and the national championship game.
ESPN recognizes the inescapability of sports betting in America, and the use of “cover alerts” was an attempt to capitalize on it. In addition, the network recently premiered a late-night version of "SportsCenter" hosted by Scott Van Pelt, who has an entire segment dedicated to “bad beats” – gambling lingo for a last-minute, upsetting change to a game’s outcome. ESPN told SportsBusiness Journal that "cover alerts" will no longer be featured, but gambling talk during broadcasts will continue. 
“It just lays out there what everybody knows, and that is people are betting on sports,” Miller said. “[Daily fantasy sports] filled a void, because people couldn’t bet on sports outside Nevada, and now DFS has taken on its own life, even apart from sports betting. The NCAA, they’re just so far behind the curve on this.”
During his U.S. visit, Pope Francis will be spending a lot of time in a fleet of custom "popemobiles," specially outfitted Jeep Wranglers. The Wrangler, which normally tops out at around 100 miles per hour in speed, comes without much of the bling or perks adorning other international leaders’ vehicles, or past popemobiles, including Pope Benedict XVI's, which was encased in bulletproof glass.
Pope Francis arrived in Washington Tuesday, welcomed by President Barack Obama. He is riding among various events in the capital before moving on to New York and then Philadelphia. But his transportation arrived almost a month beforehand, the Vatican said, with a popemobile in each city (plus a reserve) ready and waiting to ferry the leader of the Catholic Church through the throngs of waving fans.
That&#39;s a modified Jeep Wrangler serving as the Popemobile. pic.twitter.com/B5wT3Qc4uZ
&mdash; Mark Knoller (@markknoller) September 23, 2015
The Vatican and U.S. Secret Service are keeping the exact specs of this new popemobile a secret, but you could say using this Jeep, rather than the Mercedes favored by his predecessor, is another example of the humble image Francis is trying to personify. He admonished the clergy in 2013, soon after his accession, for failing to keep their priorities in order.
“It hurts me when I see a priest or nun with the latest model car; you can’t do this,” he said, as quoted by Reuters. “A car is necessary to a lot of work, but please, choose a more humble one. If you like the fancy one, just think about how many children are dying of hunger in the world.”
Pope Francis salutes the crowd from his popemobile -- a retrofitted Jeep Wrangler -- as he cruises along the National Mall in Washington Wednesday, Sept. 23, 2015. Photo: Getty Images/Chip Somodevilla/Staff
Previous Popemobiles Could Hit 160 MPH
The Mercedes-Benz Pope Benedict used when he visited the U.S. in 2008 was specially designed to drive 160 mph in the event of an emergency. But Francis' Wrangler would top out around 100 mph normally equipped; the giant pope bubble would no doubt reduce that considerably. The pope's fleet spent nearly a month being customized by the Secret Service, so it's probably safe to say that if something goes down, the pope will be ready to bounce.
Francis used a similar Jeep Wrangler during a trip to Ecuador. He's also traveled in a Kia, Hyundai, Land Rover, Isuzu and, less frequently, a Mercedes Benz during other occasions. Benedict's ride was also equipped for roadway sabotage, with run-flat tires capable of rolling if suddenly deflated at speeds up to 70 mph.
Bulletproof Glass Optional
The popemobile was traditionally an open-topped vehicle until the assassination attempt on Pope John Paul II in 1981. From then on, John Paul and his successor, Benedict, rarely made parade appearances when not surrounded by four sides of bulletproof glass, which doubled as an air purifier in the event of a chemical or biological attack.
Pope John Paul II cruises through Rome in a bulletproof popemobile in 2005. Photo: Reuters/Tony Gentile DJM/ABP
Pope Francis has steered away from this tradition since his election in 2013. He told an Italian newspaper last year that being sealed off behind thick glass is more like being stuck in a “sardine can.”
“It’s true that anything could happen, but let’s face it, at my age I don’t have much to lose,” he said, to the sound of jaws dropping everywhere. “I know that something could happen to me, but it’s in the hands of God.”
Pope Francis is expected to travel through the U.S. without bulletproof windows on his sides, though the bottom of the car is believed to be fitted with blast-proof technology in the event of a bomb in the road. That’s still more secure than the topless Hyundai he frequently uses throughout Vatican City. And, hey, at least he’s not tooling around in his own used car, for once.
Maybe most important of all, window-free cruising also makes for a quick and easy pizza delivery:

Popemobile, Meet The Beast
The pope's ride also stands in contrast to Obama's presidential limousine, also known as the Beast, which the POTUS uses at home and on official trips around the world. The Beast looks like a Cadillac limo, but it's got the underpinnings of a GM Kodiak truck, and is armored like a tank.
The nickname fits.
President Barack Obama steps out from behind bulletproof doors that have the thickness of a Boeing 757 airliner.  Photo: Reuters/Evert-Jan Daniels/Pool
A steel plate is fitted to the vehicle’s undercarriage to protect against bombs and grenades, for instance, and the front of the car is equipped with tear gas cannons and a night vision camera. Don’t forget doors that are as thick as the cabin to a 757 jet and bulletproof windows that don’t open, and its own oxygen supply to protect the president in the event of a chemical attack.
Among the other features (keep in mind that many of the most essential features remain classified):
 

Walmart Stores hiked wages for some 500,000 workers in February, lifting starting pay to $9 an hour this year, and promising to reach $10 next year. Lauded for the move by the White House, CEO Doug McMillon told CNBC, "We want our associates to know how much we value them." But seven months later, workers at the nation's largest private-sector employer don't share those fuzzy feelings. 
Conversations with Walmart workers at stores across the country revealed more discontent than what's visible on the surface. Many employees showed sympathies with recent calls for $15 an hour and full-time 40-hour workweeks -- demands that stem from the labor activist group Organization United for Respect, or Our Walmart. That contrasts sharply with the company's contention that such critiques over pay and scheduling are not shared by rank-and-file workers. Nearly every employee spoke on condition of anonymity to avoid the risk of retaliation from management. 
Asked about the campaign’s twin demands, Maly, a young worker with three years of experience at a store in New Jersey who earns $11 an hour, says he hasn’t heard about them. But, “we need that, we deserve it.”
Scheduling is another concern -- especially as Walmart has cut some workers' hours to help cover the costs of the pay raises.
Maly says he works only 34 hours a week but would like to work more. Meanwhile, every year on Black Friday, the day after Thanksgiving, he says, employees are forced to work 12-hour shifts and “you get fired if you don’t do it,” he says. “I haven’t spent Thanksgiving with my family in three years.”
Sha-majah, a cashier in Connecticut who earns $9.40 an hour, agrees that she and her fellow co-workers deserve $15. “We work hard, we’re selling food, retail, everything.” She said she works part-time, 33 to 34 hours a week, in order to take care of her 2-year-old son.
On the other hand, Shantel says $15 an hour “is pushing it.” She works full-time, 40 hours, in the apparel department at a store in New Jersey, earning $9.40 an hour. Her father-in-law is a nurse. She said he “only gets $12 an hour and he’s taking care of sick people. For retail, [$9.40] isn’t bad.”
Hanging clothes on the rack, her knees pressed on the floor, Shantel says she’s content with her work. “I’ve never had a problem. You prove yourself, you work hard,” she said. Shantel says she used to hold the same position at a Walmart in Colorado, before moving to New Jersey because of her husband’s illness. She said his earnings as an auto mechanic also support their family, which includes two young children.
Nancy Paez is a department manager at a store in Miami Gardens, Florida, and unabashed supporter of Our Walmart -- but one of about 10, she says, at her store of 500 employees. An eight- year veteran at the company who earns $12.72 an hour and usually works 40 hours a week, she acknowledges the recent minimum pay hike was "perfect" for a lot of the newer staff. (It's now about $1 above the Florida minimum wage.) 
But Paez, speaking in Spanish, says everyone would benefit from an even more generous raise than that. She also says co-workers frequently complain about their struggles to obtain full-time status. She knows some who've been working part-time for seven years, she says. Under Walmart policy, part-timers are limited to 34-hour weeks. 
Judith has even more experience at Walmart -- about 13 years worth -- and works to support herself and her husband, who’s on disability retirement. A cashier in Connecticut who earns $13 an hour, she remains skeptical of the demand for $15, since it’s so much higher than the current statewide minimum of $9.15. But she’d love a raise and some improvements on scheduling -- and a bit more respect on the job.
Three years ago, Judith says, she got a “beautiful certificate” and a pin commemorating 10 years of service at Walmart. Not long after, she was unexpectedly moved to part-time status. She’s still barred from working more than 34 hours a week. Affronted by the demotion, she handed back the certificate and pin to her boss. “I said if Walmart’s not gonna respect me, I’m not gonna respect Walmart.”
Walmart insists that complaints like these aren't representative of the workforce as a whole. "The vast majority" of employees are getting the pay, scheduling and training opportunities they want, according to spokesman Brian Nick.
There's More In Store
At interviews inside stores and adjacent parking lots, a handful of workers acknowledged some of the very issues that Our Walmart has raised at annual Black Friday protests since 2012: Low pay, the company’s heavy reliance on part-time work and the hard-to-quantify question of dignity on the job. And yet, the campaign has run into some major obstacles, suffering from low recognition and participation among the workforce.
Instability at the campaign’s primary source for political and financial support probably has played a small, but not insignificant, role. Much like the powerful Service Employees International Union and the Fight for 15 campaign, Our Walmart was bankrolled by a large union, the United Food and Commercial Workers. Until recently, doubts over the investment left the campaign’s future in doubt: Critics among the union’s ranks argued it should focus resources on dues-paying members rather than pour money and energy into an uphill battle at Walmart. That faction appeared to win out this summer, when the UFCW laid off key organizers and cut funding to the campaign.
Last week, however, Our Walmart officially relaunched as an independent organization, vowing to build on its existing network of supporters. Some observers say that newfound independence will enable the group to engage in riskier, more headline-grabbing protests and focus on long-term organizing without fears of the union pulling out the rug from underneath. (Further complicating matters, the UFCW insists it remains committed to on-the-ground organizing, and says it’s holding on to the “Our Walmart” name. For the time being, then, there are two Our Walmarts.)
Aside from those self-inflicted wounds, employee demands to either boost pay or negotiate with management are typically met with stiff resistance from Walmart. Dan Schlademan, director of the newly independent Our Walmart, says “they fire people, close stores, threaten people” and “change shifts on people” who speak out. This summer, Our Walmart accused the company of temporarily closing five stores in an effort to squelch organizing efforts at an outlet in Pico Rivera, California, that had emerged as something of a bastion of worker discontent. (The company maintains the closures were necessary for plumbing repairs.) Schlademan says tactics like these are designed to instill fear among the workforce.
Paez, the Our Walmart supporter in Florida, agrees. Although her group's issues have broad appeal, she says the biggest reason others don't join or take part in protests is "fear": "It's the fear they'll end up without work for getting involved."
Walmart vehemently denies the charges that it retaliates against workers. Likewise it rejects the notion that the recent plumbing repairs were invented as a means of cracking down on dissent. Spokesman Nick said the five stores are all slated to reopen in the coming weeks. He also noted that three-quarters of the workforce affected by the closures was offered the ability to transfer elsewhere.
Labor advocates march during a 2014 Black Friday protest at a Walmart in Long Beach, California.  Photo: Reuters/Jonathan Alcorn
But critics maintain that such apparently strong-arm tactics are simply baked into the company’s economic vision.
Nelson Lichtenstein, a labor history professor at the University of California, Santa Barbara, and author of a critically acclaimed book on Walmart, has said the company’s business model is predicated on low pay and resistance to collective bargaining. In 2000, Walmart famously closed all of its meat departments nationwide and shifted to using prepackaged meat after butchery workers at a Texas store voted for union representation. The company also closed a store in Quebec in 2005 after employees voted to organize a union -- something the Supreme Court of Canada deemed illegal last year.
Baez, the worker in Florida, says more employees don't support Our Walmart because "they're afraid." "They don't want to lose their jobs," she says.
Nick rejected the criticism about low pay, saying the company’s wages and benefits “are very competitive for not only the retail industry, but a large company in general.” He asserted that average hourly pay is $13. (According to the independent survey site Glassdoor.com, the average hourly wage for Walmart sales associates is $9.34, with cashiers earning around the same amount; the average annual salary for a manager is more than $45,000.)
At any rate, Schlademan of Our Walmart says it’s clear the protests are already having an impact. He refers to an interview last December in which CEO McMillon promised to raise pay and said the company sometimes gets “caught up” in the “debate over inequity.” Just two months later, Walmart unveiled its modest hikes in starting pay.
“Walmart’s basic business model has always been ‘we’re the lowest payer, we’re the cheapest,' and the fact that they have been forced to change that speaks volumes about the power of the organization and what the organization’s been able to accomplish,” Schlademan says of Our Walmart.
Much like the unexpected success of the Fight for 15, Schlademan hopes that the campaign can continue tapping into national dialogues about low pay and inequality. Doing so effectively could force the company into going further than its recent wage hike.
“There’s no question we’re at a moment in time where the issues of inequality have changed our conversations about what’s wrong with the economy,” Schlademan continues. “When we think about 2016, and the pope and Bernie [Sanders], all these sort of things, the environment that’s here is not like anything I’ve ever seen.”
It took Pandora nine years to pay out its first $1 billion in artist royalties -- and just one year to pay out the next $500 million. The streaming radio service announced Wednesday that it has paid out $1.5 billion to artists and rights holders, calling the moment a milestone.
“I am proud of our enormous royalty contributions, and our progress on building on a broader vision for the future of music,” Pandora CEO Brian McAndrews said in a statement. “We are very passionate about our mission to help artists find their audience and help listeners find their music -- music they love, that moves them, that they personally connect with -- and we are achieving significant momentum.”
Since its launch more than a decade ago, Pandora has grown into one of the most popular apps in the United States. The company boasts more than 80 million monthly active users, who use the service on average for about 20 hours per month. Yet as it’s grown, Pandora has faced charges from a number of music industry figures that the royalty rates it pays are inadequate. The overwhelming majority of listeners use its free, ad-supported tier, which pays a song's performers $0.0014 each time a listener hears that recording. That rate is statutory, meaning they are determined by the Copyright Royalty Board, a federally appointed panel. The Copyright Royalty Board is set to issue a new royalty rate in the next few months. 
By comparison, Spotify, which offers both on-demand and radio-style streaming experiences, and which has come in for no small amount of criticism over its own royalty payouts, said in June that it has paid out $3 billion in royalties since launching in 2008. That announcement came less than eight months after founder Daniel Ek published a blog post announcing that Spotify had paid out $2 billion. Spotify negotiates its royalty rates directly with labels. 
Add rising unemployment to the growing list of issues on Russia's plate. Amid international sanctions, dropping oil prices, a conflict in Ukraine and deepening involvement in Syria's ongoing civil war, 4.1 million Russians are now out of work. The August figures represent an increase of 13.5 percent year-on-year, Rosstat, the country's official statistics service, said Wednesday, Russian state news agency Tass reported.
Russia's economy is heavily dependent on oil, with oil and gas accounting for roughly 70 percent of its income from exports. Oil prices have taken a tumble in recent months, with Brent crude dropping to below $50 a barrel after hovering above $100 a barrel from 2010 until the middle of 2014. Although the World Bank has said the drop in prices could lead Russia's economy to contract by 0.7 percent or more this year, the Kremlin has refused to cut oil production in order to bolster prices.
Also choking Russia's economy are international sanctions, first imposed in 2014 and extended at the beginning of September, on a number of Russian companies and individuals. The sanctions are rooted in Russia's involvement in the ongoing conflict in Ukraine, where it supports separatist rebel groups, and its annexation of Crimea in March 2014. Under the sanctions, imposed by the European Union and the United States, senior Russian officials have been blacklisted, along with state banks and firms, including arms companies. 
 
Russian #GDP shrank 4.6% YoY in the Q2 of 2015 but #unemployment decreased to 5.3% in July http://t.co/z18ciLrKbn pic.twitter.com/H1brKKTgOO
&mdash; pipTank (@piptank) August 20, 2015

 
Although the sanctions make it more difficult for Russian companies and banks to access capital in the European Union and the U.S., it particularly hurts Russia's economy, accelerating capital flight to havens outside the country and depressing wages. In response to the sanctions, in August 2014, Russia imposed a "full embargo" of its own on food imported from the West, including fruits, vegetables, meat and dairy, the BBC reported.
The number of unemployed people decreased by 0.2 percent from July to August, Rosstat said. In August, a state survey found more and more Russians reported their friends and family were losing jobs, the Moscow Times reported. Wages also fell the fastest in August, compared to all other months of the year, Russian state data showed.
Boeing is finally going to China. The American aerospace giant will build its first overseas airliner assembly plant in China, state news agency Xinhua reported Wednesday. As part of the deal, Boeing also will sell 300 new aircraft to three Chinese companies.
Boeing has not yet issued a statement. Nor has the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers, the union that represents more than 33,000 workers at the company’s longtime manufacturing base in Washington’s Puget Sound region.
The move is Boeing’s latest step away from its home in the Pacific Northwest -- something it has pinned, in part, on high labor costs. More than a dozen years ago, the company moved its corporate headquarters to Chicago; in 2011, it opened an assembly plant near Charleston, South Carolina, where it now builds the 787 Dreamliner jet. Since 2013, Boeing has shed 6,800 jobs from Washington, although the state still hosts about half of the corporation’s 160,000-person workforce, according to SEC filings.
Observers also say the company’s pivot to China is driven by its rivalry with Airbus. Like Boeing, Europe’s top aerospace manufacturer has set up shop in the American South. Seeking new markets and friendly business environments, it cut the ribbon on a shining new factory in Mobile, Alabama, last week. And it, too, has a manufacturing presence in China: In July, Airbus signed a deal for a second Chinese factory. The firm already has an assembly plant in the northeastern port city of Tianjin.
China is expected to add more than 6,000 new aircraft worth $950 billion to its commercial fleet within the next two decades, according to Boeing. The new plant in China will manufacture a model of Boeing's 737 passenger jets. "China's rapidly growing aviation market plays a crucial role in our current and future success," Chairman Jim McNerney said in a statement last week.
Chinese President Xi Jinping is visiting Boeing’s factory in Everett, Washington, Wednesday. Some employees there are gearing up for a protest. In contrast to the United States, there are no independent trade unions in China. The International Labor Organization, an agency of the United Nations, recognizes the right of workers to join and form unions of their choice.
It's not just Turing Pharmaceuticals, maker of the now-infamous Daraprim, the drug whose price jumped by 5,000 percent overnight, that appears to be exploiting patients. Other drug companies are vastly overcharging Americans with cancer for a group of drugs known as tyrosine kinase inhibitors, or TKIs, an academic study has found. Sometimes, the price of those drugs is up to 600 times more than the cost of production, Reuters reported this week.
In the U.S., a patient can expect to pay $75,000 to $100,000 per year, twice as much as a European counterpart, for these drugs, which have fewer side effects than chemotherapy. Yet the World Health Organization has determined that TKIs can be produced at a low cost, adding one such drug to its list of essential medicines earlier this year.
The findings of the study, carried out by Andrew Hill, a pharmacologist at the University of Liverpool in Britain, come amid a raging debate over the price of drugs in general, not just cancer treatments, in the United States. Sovaldi, for example, a hepatitis C drug that when taken daily for 12 weeks cures 90 percent of patients, costs $1,000 a pill. Many other drugs treating a variety of illnesses or infections in the U.S. can cost hundreds of thousands of dollars per year per patient. Daraprim, which treats the parasitic infection toxoplasmosis, joined that category when, this week, Turing ran up the price from $13.50 a tablet to $750.
Hill, who analyzed TKI production costs and pricing, found that if it produced on a large scale, TKIs could cost anywhere from $159 to $4,022 per person every year, especially as patents on some TKIs expire and generic versions can be made, Reuters reported.
"There is a lot of scope for prices to come down," Hill said. "There has to be some middle ground between the prices that companies are charging, which may not even be cost-effective by the standards set by some healthcare authorities, and the actual production cost."
 
&quot;How Much Should Cancer Drugs Cost?&quot; http://t.co/0uWL0gHm2F by @Loftus pic.twitter.com/YWPukL3pcU
&mdash; Arthur Charpentier (@freakonometrics) July 25, 2015

 
Pharmaceutical companies have long maintained that drugs are priced so high because those profits fund critical research and development, allowing drug companies to create better medicines, and more of them. But critics argue that pharmaceutical companies make excessive profits and that the high cost of drugs cannot be explained or justified simply by R&D needs.
In 2013, average profit margins for the pharmaceutical industry rivaled those of the banking industry, beating the auto industry and even oil and gas companies. That year, Pfizer, the world's largest pharmaceutical company by revenue, had a 42 percent profit margin, the BBC reported.
Hill's calculations showed that if the TKI Gleevec, which treats leukemia and is made by Swiss-based Novartis, were to have a 50 percent profit margin, it would cost $159 for a year of treatment. In the U.S., it costs $106,000. 
A spokeswoman for Novartis told Reuters the cost of production was not the only factor determining the price of a drug. "We invest in developing novel and current treatments to find ways to make more cancers survivable," she said. "This is challenging and risky and needs to be taken into consideration when discussing pricing of treatments," she added.
No need for blacks, Latinos and other racial minorities to apply for a job teaching English with at least one Catholic school in Hong Kong. A job advertisement for a part-time English teacher at Mission Covenant Church Sister Annie’s Kindergarten and Nursery shows the position is for white applicants only.
The ad, listed in the South China Morning Post’s classified section for two weeks earlier this month, has been denounced as discriminatory, the Hong Kong Free Press reported. It may also violate a Hong Kong ordinance against racial discrimination, according to the report.
Caucasians only: Newspaper ad for English teacher job may have violated discrimination rules http://t.co/Kkcsnv6S1H pic.twitter.com/KdOiBtF0Em
&mdash; Hong Kong Free Press (@HongKongFP) September 23, 2015
The school sought a teacher “with a loving and kind-hearted personality, teaching experience and Caucasian.” The ad offered between HK$250 and HK$280, or as much as US$36 per hour, for eight to nine hours per week.
Yeung Lap Yan, executive secretary for the Mission Covenant Church, claimed that the ad’s inclusion of the word “Caucasian” was a mistranslation for the phrase “native English-speaking teacher” and said it had been deleted from the publisher’s website as of Wednesday. “Down in their heart, they would like to recruit a [native English-speaking teacher] but unfortunately they put ‘Caucasian’ on the advert,” the church secretary told the Free Press.
There were approximately 250,000 native English speakers working abroad as English teachers in more than 40,000 schools and language institutes around the world in 2012, according to the International TEFL Academy, which provides certification courses for individuals who teach English as a foreign language. Racial discrimination by foreign English-language academies is a common concern among minority applicants, wrote Edward Young, an African-American TEFL teacher in Japan and South Korea.
“I’d be lying if I didn't say that as a person of color, you may encounter some discrimination when seeking employment to teach English abroad,” Young wrote for ITEFLA's website in 2013. “To be blunt, some employers do consider ethnicity when making hiring decisions.”
“Personally, as an African-American teaching English abroad, I observed that it is generally not an employer’s deliberate intention to discriminate and, more often than not, it just boils down to their preconceived misconception of what a native speaker should look like,” Young wrote, adding that most TEFL certificate holders are at an advantage regardless of their race.
Experience is a key factor in getting hired, according to the teach-abroad website Go Overseas. It suggested that applicants put their level of experience at the very top of their resumes.
 
If you’re a fashionista who loves wearing yoga pants to the office or looks forward to matching sneakers to a shirt and tie, Nike has some new clothes for you. The athletic apparel retailer's new emphasis on activewear, particularly for women, is considered crucial to its expansion beyond the locker room.
Nike Inc. (NYSE: NKE) is leading the charge to capitalize on the world’s newfound love of “athleisure” gear. Investors are optimistic about what that could mean for the Oregon-based company’s long-term prospects as it prepares to release figures Thursday for its first fiscal quarter of 2016.
Consumer interest in fashionable activewear has skyrocketed globally in recent years, particularly among women. Brands like Nike, Under Armour and Lululemon are locked in a heated battle to market and sell fashion-forward apparel that can be worn to the office as easily as to the gym. American consumers spent $2 billion more on apparel, footwear and accessories in 2014 than in the previous year, largely due to increased sales in the activewear segment, according to NPD Group, a market research firm.
Analysts are divided on whether athleisure is more than a passing trend and whether Nike’s gains in the market would come at the expense of competitors like Under Armour and Lululemon. But one thing is certain: Athleisure is “absolutely” a factor in the company’s own outlook, especially given Nike’s massive share of the marketplace, said Paul Swinand, an equity analyst at Morningstar Investment Services in Chicago.
“In general, it’s a trend toward both athletic lifestyles and athletic looks,” Swinand said. “As the ‘majors’ add those category niches in their product lines, they’re probably expanding the market more than stealing market share.”
Think of "athleisure" as the nexus of fashion and function: coffee-shop customers clad in leggings and mall shoppers in formfitting pullover sweatshirts. Celebrities on the leading edge of the trend include Kanye West, Justin Bieber and Beyoncé -- who has a clothing line that prominently features activewear. Each of them has taken athleisure from a fringe fashion phenomenon to a full-fledged movement. 
With $30 billion in revenue for its 2015 fiscal year and share prices at an all-time high, continued expansion of athleisure offerings are seen as crucial to Nike’s long-term growth, especially given the company’s stated goal of increased sales to women. Nike executives hope to reach $7 billion in women’s apparel sales by 2017 -- a 40 percent increase from current levels.
The company’s latest athleisure apparel hit shelves just a few months after Nike reported a 16 percent increase in women’s apparel sales for its 2015 fiscal year. That trend, along with the approximately 70 million women Nike now counts as part of its online community, bodes well for the company’s outlook in 2016. Still, the brand's sales among women remain surprisingly low, said Laurent Vasilescu, an analyst at Macquarie Securities. 
"It's baffling, for the sheer size of the company, that only 20 percent of revenues come from women," Vasilescu said. "There's 50 percent of the customer base out there that are women. There's a lot of opportunity."
Activewear’s effect on global sports apparel market cannot be overstated. A recent Wall Street Journal report called athleisure a “phenomenon” and “the biggest trend to hit fashion since the skinny jean,” having made the jump from retail outlets to the runway. Nike paid close attention to the trend for years and reaped the rewards thanks in large part to sales of its Flyknit sneaker, a runaway success after a decade in development, according to CNBC.
Nike unveiled the next incarnation of its athleisure efforts earlier this month with the release of “Therma-Sphere Max,” which comes in a $185 men’s hoodie, $120 men’s pant and a $155 women’s “training vest.” Aside from its stylish athleisure design, the new gear comes equipped with “AeroReact” technology, capable of altering its own fit based on whether the wearer is sweating.
The expansion of Nike’s athleisure brand coincides with the projected success of the company’s efforts overseas. Futures sales have been particularly strong in China, where the country’s growing middle class is increasingly eager to buy Nike sneakers. Nike's successful marketing efforts in the region, which included the introduction of premium products in its running and basketball sectors, have proved valuable as China increasingly embraces the two sports.
While athleisure is sure to play a vital role in Nike's long-term plans, Vasilescu gave it minor significance in the Q1 performance. More important, he said, is whether Nike raises guidance on earnings and gross margins. Falling oil prices have made it easier for companies to acquire important petroleum-based materials, like polyester and nylon. 
"One of the key inputs in this industry is oil," Vasilescu said. "We estimate about 30 percent of their [cost of goods] are oil-based inputs."
Though Nike has traditionally functioned largely as a wholesaler, the company’s increased dedication to direct-to-consumer sales, such as the online marketplace, have also stoked optimism. Nike’s direct-to-consumer sales were up 29 percent to $6.6 billion in fiscal 2015. Continued growth of the company’s DTC sales is “starting to become meaningful,” Swinard said.
“If the Internet business is growing 20, 30-plus percent, eventually people are going to pay more and more attention to it,” he added.
Nike was projected to report earnings of $1.031 billon, with earnings per share set at $1.18, on $8.214 billion in revenue, according to analysts polled by Thompson Reuters. The Oregon-based apparel company earned a net profit of $962 million, with earnings per share of $1.09, on $7.982 billion in revenue at this time last year. The first fiscal quarter of 2014 was particularly strong for Nike due to its connection with that year’s FIFA World Cup.
The company will formally announce its earnings for the first quarter fiscal 2016 Thursday at about 4:45 p.m. EDT, after the stock market closes, according to a press release. Nike executives will hold a conference call to discuss the report at 5 p.m. EDT that day.
UPDATE: 11:20 a.m. EDT -- Volkswagen Group CEO Martin Winterkorn issued a statement after resigning Wednesday amid an emissions-rigging scandal that has sparked worldwide investigations centered on the levels of pollutants emitted by the company’s diesel-powered vehicles. “As CEO, I accept responsibility for the irregularities that have been found in diesel engines and have therefore requested the supervisory board to agree on terminating my function,” Winterkorn said in the statement. “Volkswagen needs a fresh start ... I am clearing the way for this fresh start with my resignation.” He said he was “stunned that misconduct on such a scale was possible in the Volkswagen Group,” and he also said he “was not aware of any wrong doing on my part.”
Das Statement von Martin Winterkorn. pic.twitter.com/gUW3uyWunA
&mdash; Jörgen Camrath (@uniwave) September 23, 2015
Original story:
Volkswagen Group CEO Martin Winterkorn resigned Wednesday amid an unfolding scandal centered on company-made vehicles that were rigged to pass U.S. Environmental Protection Agency emissions tests by faking the levels of the pollutants they produce in an effort to make them appear more environmentally friendly, CNBC reported. Winterkorn is expected to be replaced by Matthias Mueller, an executive at Porsche, Reuters said Tuesday, citing local German media.
News of Winterkorn’s resignation broke after the company admitted Tuesday that 11 million of its cars had been affected by the software, more than 20 times the initial estimate of 500,000 cars announced Friday. Volkswagen AG’s share price continued to drop this week, plummeting 20 percent to a four-year low.
Winterkorn released a video statement Tuesday saying he was “endlessly sorry we betrayed the trust of customers.” He pledged: “We are going to clarify the background unsparingly, and, at this very moment, everything is being put on the table as quickly, thoroughly and transparently as possible.” He added: “The irregularities with these engines contradict everything for which Volkswagen stands. To make it very clear, manipulation at VW must never happen again.”
Last year, Forbes business magazine ranked Winterkorn No. 58 on its list of the world’s most powerful people, ahead of the leaders of Mexico and Japan. Forbes said at the time that he “urged European regulators not to overburden the automotive industry with excessive emission targets, citing a lack of time to develop fuel-efficient technology and the economic downturn as major concerns.”
U.S. stocks opened in the red Wednesday as traders looked to further signs of weakness from China and despite a rally in Europe on the back of positive data on business activity. Oil prices gained slightly ahead of a weekly report on U.S. crude inventory.
The Dow Jones Industrial Average (INDEXDJX:.DJI) shed 16.40 points, or 0.10 percent, to 16,314. The Standard & Poor's 500 index (INDEXSP:.INX) lost 2.31 points, or 0.12 percent, to 1,940. The Nasdaq composite (INDEXNASDAQ:.IXIC) dropped 7.73 points, or 0.17 percent, to 4,829.
Seven of the 10 U.S. sectors were down after the opening bell while energy, utilities and technology stocks were gaining.
The preliminary Caixin China purchasing managers’ index (PMI) fell to 47.0 in September, well below a Thomson Reuters forecast of 47.5 and its lowest since March 2009. Readings below 50 indicate economic contraction.
“Caixin’s manufacturing PMI has not provided a particularly good reading of the health of the broader economy in recent months, so it is still too early to tell whether the Chinese economy has stumbled in September,” Julian Evans-Pritchard, China specialist at Capital Economics, said in a research note.
Asian stocks were hit by the weak economic data from China. Hong Kong’s Hang Sen dropped 2.26 percent while the mainland’s Shanghai Composite Index dropped 2.19 percent.Markets were in the green in Europe, bouncing back from losses in the previous session caused by steep drops in mining and automotive stocks. London’s FTSE 100 Index was up nearly 2 percent in Wednesday afternoon trading while the German DAX and French CAC 40 were above 1 percent.
The American Petroleum Institute will release weekly crude inventories Wednesday morning. Last week the country’s crude stockpile dropped by 3.1 million barrels. Oil prices were up Wednesday with West Texas Intermediate crude, the benchmark for U.S. oil prices, gaining 0.22 percent to $46.46 per barrel for November delivery on the New York Mercantile Exchange. On the London ICE Futures Exchange, Brent crude for November advanced 0.53 percent to $49.34 a barrel.
It looks like shoppers won’t be heading to the stores quite as quickly this holiday season compared to last year. This holiday sale season is expected to be one of the weakest in years, the consultant firm AlixPartners reported Wednesday after analyzing consumer spending trends over the past year.
The New York City based firm said the expected weak sales are a result of upper middle-class shoppers being scared by a fluctuating stock market and waiting until the last minute to shop, thinking they will get better deals, Reuters reported. Sales growth for this holiday season, which runs from about November to December, is expected to grow from 2.8 percent to 3.4 percent.
The expected growth is lower than the holiday sale average of the last five years, which is at about 3.9 percent. During last year’s holiday season, sales grew to 4.4 percent.
High income families to low income families are expected to spend less on the holidays this year. After seeing their stocks go up and down, high income spenders are also expected to not shop as much.
Noam Paransky, director of AlixPartners' retail practice, said that slow pay growth for middle income and low income families makes them focus on spending more conservatively. He said these families are trying to put any money they can into personal savings and not holidays.
"What we are seeing is that consumers' behavior this year in terms of increased retail sales is fairly muted," Paransky told Reuters. "A lot of the ingredients that drive retail revenue...aren’t there."
 
4 Predictions for 2015 Holiday Shopping Season: Earlier shopping, ecommerce sales growth, improved email marke... http://t.co/ioVn0yCakn
&mdash; Ecommerce Boy (@EcommerceBoy) September 23, 2015

 
Consumer sentiment has been decreasing since August. University of Michigan researchers found that consumer optimism was at about 85.7 percent, compared to August’s 91.9 percent. Researchers had expected September’s consumer sentiment to be around 91.2 percent.
Ontario Teachers' Pension Plan, Canada's largest single-profession pension fund, may buy a "significant minority interest" in Jasper Infotech, which operates Indian online shopping site Snapdeal, the Economic Times reported Wednesday, citing three people it didn't name.
Jasper isn't raising more money through this deal, which involves some early investors selling a part or all of their holdings in the Indian company, the newspaper reported. The prospective sellers included eBay Inc., which had already sold a portion of its stake earlier this year, Sequoia Capital and Saama Capital, Economic Times reported.
The proposed transaction valued Jasper Infotech at about $6.5 billion, more than a third higher than the close to $4.7 billion value attached to its business when Foxconn Technology teamed up with Snapdeal's biggest backer SoftBank Group Corp. and Alibaba Group Holding Ltd., to invest $500 million in the Indian company, the newspaper reported.
That round of funding raised Jasper's total to over $1 billion. Snapdeal is in intense competition with Amazon.com, Inc.'s Indian operations and local market leader by gross value of goods sold, Flipkart, which has raised about three times more money from investors, including New York hedge fund Tiger Global Management.
The Canadian pension fund, which manages retirement investments of 311,000 teachers in Ontario, had 154.5 billion Canadian dollars ($116 billion) in net assets as of December 31, 2014, according to its website.
Volkswagen AG CEO Martin Winterkorn faced a grilling session before the company's board Wednesday over allegations of massive emissions tampering that have tarnished the image of the world’s largest carmaker.
On Tuesday, the company revealed that 11 million of its cars could have been affected, pulling the firm's market value by one-third and threatening the position of its CEO. 
The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) accused Volkswagen and Audi Friday of using illegal software known as a “defeat device” to falsify the results of emissions regulation tests. Volkswagen reportedly admitted that it installed the defeat devices on about 482,000 vehicles.
The software covertly switches off pollution controls when the car is being driven, and reactivates them if it detects an emissions test. When the device is deactivated, the EPA said that emission levels of pollutant gases, including nitrogen oxide could reach as much as 40 times higher than standard limits.
"I am infinitely sorry that we have disappointed people's trust. I offer my deepest apologies," Winterkorn said in a statement. He added that the "irregularities ... contradict everything that our company stands for."
An unnamed source told Reuters Wednesday that the company was in a “tricky situation” regarding Winterkorn’s future, as the board did not yet know the full extent of his involvement in the scandal. Winterkorn is due to have his contract extended at the end of this week, and has shown no indication of intending to resign.
The news prompted an international outcry, with France calling for a Europe-wide probe into the allegations, and South Korea summoning company officials to discuss the allegations.
"We've called in Volkswagen representatives and engineers to the ministry for a meeting on Wednesday afternoon," South Korea's Environment Ministry Deputy Director Park Pan-Kyu told Agence France-Presse. He added that up to 59,000 cars in the country could have been equipped with the illicit software.
Volkswagen has halted the sales of all diesel vehicles in the U.S. following the revelations.
The EPA said the company could face fines of up to $18 billion for its conduct. The U.S. Justice Department has also launched a criminal probe, and several state attorney generals are forming an investigative group, New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman said. “No company should be allowed to evade our environmental laws or promise consumers a fake bill of goods," he reportedly said in a statement.
The company’s stocks nosedived following the allegations, losing 17 percent of their value on Monday, and a further 20 percent on Tuesday. However, it was trading up 1.97 percent Wednesday, having made a modest rebound on the Frankfurt Stock Exchange, after almost $28 billion was wiped off the company’s market value this week.
European stock indexes were trading up Wednesday while U.S. stock futures suggested a positive opening to markets even as Asian markets suffered earlier in the day after a key indicator suggested Chinese factories slowed down more than expected.
China's factory sector shrank for a seventh straight month to its weakest level in six and a half years, according to a purchasing managers' index (PMI) released Wednesday. The data followed the U.S. Federal Reserve's decision last week not to raise interest rates citing global growth concerns, particularly about the Chinese economy. The Asian Development Bank on Tuesday lowered its growth forecast for China to 6.8 percent from 7.2 percent for 2015.
Asian stocks closed largely down Wednesday, with the Shanghai Stock Exchange Composite Index retreating over 2 percent and the smaller Shenzhen Composite Index falling nearly 1 percent. Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index dropped over 2 percent, while Japan’s Nikkei 225 and South Korea’s Kospi Composite Index both slumped nearly 2 percent. Australia’s benchmark S&P/ASX 200 index was also down 2.07 percent. 
While sentiment across Asia remained broadly cautious, shares in India were up slightly. India’s benchmark S&P BSE Sensex index closed up nearly 0.7 percent while the larger Nifty rose 0.4 percent.
Meanwhile, Europe managed to buck the trend as a surprise bounce in French business activity boosted investor sentiment. In early trade, London’s FTSE 100 was up 1.6 percent while Germany’s DAX was up 1.12 percent and France’s CAC 40 was trading up 1.16 percent.
Shares of Volkswagen AG showed signs of a mild recovery Wednesday, trading up 1.21 percent after the stock plummeted about 40 percent in the last two trading sessions after the German automaker was found cheating on U.S. emissions tests. The company announced Tuesday that it would set aside over $7 billion to deal with the scandal and CEO Martin Winterkorn was summoned by the board Wednesday to explain how the tests were falsified.
Meanwhile, U.S. stock futures painted a more positive picture, with futures on the S&P 500 up 0.34 percent. Futures for the Dow Jones Industrial Average were up 0.38 percent while Nasdaq 100 index futures were up 0.42 percent. 
On Tuesday, the Dow Jones fell 1.1 percent while the S&P 500 dropped 1.2 percent and the Nasdaq was down 1.5 percent.
“[This was] good old-fashioned overnight panic and then suddenly people don’t care anymore and are much calmer,” said Chris Beauchamp, senior market analyst at IG, according to MarketWatch.
“It really repeats the pattern we’ve seen over the past months. Everything seem to be locked in a delicate balance of buyers and sellers, even more than usual. And every dip has been furiously bought, but every rally has been sold. You really get the sense that both sides are locked in a stalemate,” Beauchamp added.
Chinese President Xi Jinping’s visit to the United States has brought out corporate leaders hopeful for eased trade relations between the countries. 
On Wednesday, President Xi will command an audience of some of the world’s wealthiest and most powerful business leaders in Seattle as he tours the U.S. for the first time during his presidency. Warren Buffett and Apple CEO Tim Cook will join executives from Microsoft, Starbucks and a host of other American and Chinese corporate giants for the meeting with Xi, who is hoping to demonstrate the importance of China to the American economy.
The trip comes as China and the U.S. navigate a particularly rocky time in international relations, with tensions over hacking and China’s military maneuvering attracting global attention. China's economy, meanwhile, has hit the skids, spooking international investors. 
But an equally contentious set of challenges faces the business community as American corporate leaders angle for a greater slice of the world’s second-largest economy. China currently represents a nearly $600 billion market for U.S. firms.
Among the issues almost certain to come up at the Seattle meeting are high-profile business hacks suspected of having at least tacit approval from Beijing and China’s internet censorship regime, one of the most advanced in the world.
Yet for American business, conflicts between U.S. corporate ambitions and Xi’s controversial government reforms present even greater challenges, from new Chinese laws business leaders say stifle competition to surveillance policies that expose American firms' innermost secrets to the Communist Party. 
Regulatory Friction
When former National Security Agency contractor Edward Snowden released his explosive spy leaks in 2013, China-U.S. relations were not spared. "The NSA does all kinds of things like hack Chinese cell phone companies to steal all of your SMS data," Snowden told a Hong Kong newspaper.
That allegation provided ammunition for new policies in Beijing that have created one of the most difficult binds American business has faced in China. Under new policies, U.S. corporations would be expected to submit to a raft of new oversight provisions, including agreements to hand the Chinese government access to their data systems through so-called backdoors into company source code and communications.
The new rules are just some of the laws that American companies say unfairly target and intimidate foreign firms. Chinese authorities have wielded anti-monopoly laws, for example, to impose steep fines on companies like Qualcomm and Mercedes-Benz. U.S. firms fear that billions more in such penalties may loom in the future. 
“There has been some friction in the past year or two from the Chinese government levying fines on non-Chinese businesses,” says Greg Stoller, a senior lecturer at the Boston University Questrom School of Business. Still, he says it’s “too early to tell” how much these fines have to do with benefiting Chinese firms.
Michael Froman, U.S. Trade Rep., is far less uncertain about China’s application of business regulations. “The rules aren’t about security -- they are about protectionism and favoring Chinese companies,” Froman said of China’s new cybersecurity laws this year. “The administration is aggressively working to have China walk back from these troubling regulations.”
Xi, for his part, denies any targeting of foreign firms. “We give equal and fair treatment to all market players -- including foreign-invested companies in China -- and welcome all forms of cooperation between transnational corporations and their Chinese counterparts,” Xi said in a Wall Street Journal interview.
Despite the impediments, investors are still eager to see American tech companies expand their presence in China, which boasts the world’s largest online population. But with tech giants Facebook and Google still sidelined from the country due to censorship concerns, it’s clear that finding a balance won’t be easy.
Intellectual Property 
Earlier this year, IBM raised eyebrows by agreeing to share some of its most profitable proprietary technology with Teamsun, a Chinese IT provider, for a joint project that will allow the company to build a full supply chain on the foundation of IBM know-how.
The move, approved by U.S. trade authorities, stirred long-standing concerns around China’s use of intellectual property. For years, American companies have reported heavy losses in connection with intellectual property rights violations.
The U.S. government has also put the pressure on China. Though he commended China for recent reforms, the U.S. trade representative in 2015 kept China on a priority watch list for countries that have failed to protect trade secrets. Investors are hoping that further reforms are forthcoming.
And the situation for American businesses is improving in some ways, says Minyuan Zhao, an associate professor of management at the Wharton School and an expert in intellectual property rights.
“The infrastructure for intellectual property protection has improved significantly, especially in the legal system,” Zhao wrote in an email, citing the establishment of specialized new courts to address the issue.
“On the other hand, however, the push for indigenous innovation has blurred the boundary between copying and learning,” Zhao wrote. China’s ambitions to increase its technological output has meant more gray areas and partnerships like the one IBM recently forged.
Though Zhao said the environment is still “not great,” the size of China’s economy remains irresistible to U.S. firms. “If knowledge leakage is inevitable, the company might as well take the initiative and work closely with local partners.”
A BIT Closer? 
If there’s a single initiative toward China that most unites the American business community, it’s the establishment of a bilateral investment treaty (BIT) between the two superpowers. Observers have posited that Xi’s visit could be an opportune time for the announcement of progress on the treaty.
The agreement would provide rules of the road for the respective governments, setting limits on regulation and preferential treatment of domestic business.
“We urge the two governments to reinforce the economic and commercial relationship, including by concluding a high-standard, comprehensive BIT as soon as possible,” said U.S. Chamber of Commerce President Thomas Donohue in a statement.
Xi also spoke in favor of trade accords. “[We] stand ready to properly settle economic and trade disputes with relevant countries through consultation and promote a balanced multilateral economic and trade system that focuses on development and seeks win-win results,” he told the WSJ.
The U.S. currently has BITs with more than 40 countries. But despite a yearslong attempt to hammer out trade accords, China is still not one of them.
A treaty could go far in resolving some of the most pressing issues U.S. businesses face in China, from ensuring that state-owned businesses don’t crowd out foreign competitors to increasing transparency in national judicial processes. More than 90 U.S. CEOs have signed onto a letter calling for "significant" progress on the talks. 
But the road to a full treaty is rocky. On Tuesday, Trade Rep. Froman told an audience at an event, “We are a substantial distance from the kind of high-standard agreement necessary to achieve our mutual objectives.”
Reuters reported that negotiators remain at loggerheads over the number of industries that China wants to keep out of the deal. A so-called negative list of proposed exceptions currently keeps American companies out of more than 100 sectors.
Though China’s most recent proposal reportedly contained more than 35 exceptions, U.S. negotiators are aiming for a BIT that substantially reduces that number. Given Froman’s comments, an agreement during Xi’s visit may be farther out of reach. But corporate leaders are still hopeful that the meetings this week may provide some blue skies for American business.
The search for Malaysia Airlines Flight MH370 will focus on returning to more than 30 sites in the southern Indian Ocean where search vessels have previously made “sonar contacts of interest,” Australia’s Joint Agency Coordination Centre (JACC) said Wednesday. The latest development in the search operation comes weeks after French prosecutors confirmed that a wing component found in July on Réunion Island came from the missing plane.
Fugro Discovery, which arrived back in the search area after a resupply trip, will survey sites where certain objects termed as "Classification 2," have been found by search vessels till date, JACC said. Classification 2 sonar contacts are described as ocean objects that are “of comparatively more interest” but “still unlikely” to be of significance importance to the search operation.
“The resurvey of Classification 2 contacts will be conducted using the deep-tow at lower altitude and using higher frequency sonar,” JACC said, in a statement. “The higher resolution data from this method will enable the search team to identify the relevance of such contacts without the need to await the arrival of the autonomous underwater vehicle (AUV) which cannot be deployed until the weather improves in the summer months.”
Australian Transport Safety Bureau released the photo of a ProSAS Synthetic Aperture Sonar detecting a Category 2 contact in the southern Indian Ocean. Photo: ATSB/Phoenix International/Hydrospheric Solutions
An international search, led by Australia, is underway in a 46,332-square-mile area in the southern Indian Ocean, where authorities believe the plane went down. Australian and Malaysian authorities have also indicated that more vessels may join the search when the weather improves. Currently only Fugro Discovery and Fugro Equator are involved in the operation, which has become the costliest in aviation history.
“The search for MH370 is being conducted thoroughly and to a very high standard and it is important that contacts are comprehensively investigated and considered,” JACC said.
Australian Transport Safety Bureau released the photo of a Side Scan Sonar detecting a Category 2 contact in the southern Indian Ocean. Photo: ATSB/Fugro Survey
The focus of the search operation shifted to the French island of Réunion in the Indian Ocean in July after a flaperon washed up on its shores. After over a month of investigation, the aircraft debris was confirmed to be from Flight MH370. However, Australian investigators said that despite the confirmation of the component's link to the Boeing 777-200, there would not be any alteration in the search.
Last week, reports speculated about the origin of a large object found floating near where the flaperon was discovered. The "white object" was reported by an Air France pilot, who noticed the material on the Indian Ocean's surface while on a flight from Paris to Réunion Island.
Flight MH370 went missing on March 2014 with 239 people on board while on its way from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing.
On Tuesday, Reuters reported that the United Nations agency that oversees civil aviation may delay a plan to require airlines to track the location of their planes. The International Civil Aviation Organization had proposed that by November 2016, all large aircraft carrying passengers should report their position at least once every 15 minutes, but the plan has been pushed by two years, to 2018, according to an internal report cited by Reuters. 
SHANGHAI -- China’s President Xi Jinping has defended his leadership’s handling of its recent stock market turmoil and currency devaluation -- and said that the country’s anti-corruption campaign is not part of a power struggle, in the style of the Netflix political drama "House of Cards." In his speech at a dinner in Seattle on the first day of his state visit to the U.S., Xi also said the Chinese economy was stable -- and emphasized that there would be no further devaluation of the yuan.
The remarks are the first time that China’s top leader has spoken out on these issues: Analysts say Xi has generally cultivated an image of being above daily affairs -- partly to avoid blame for problems facing the nation. However, it was a sense of a lack of leadership from the top, and an absence of clear explanation of official policy when China’s stock market plunged in July, and when the yuan was devalued soon after, that spooked foreign investors and global markets. Observers said Xi’s comments were a sign that his visit to the U.S. is forcing him to address issues he normally avoids; before the visit, the president, who rarely talks to the Western media, also gave an interview to the Wall Street Journal -- though only in written form.
In his speech to U.S. and Chinese business leaders, Xi explained the government’s massive intervention in China’s stock market in July, after stock prices fell 40 percent in a month. Some critics blamed the authorities for talking up the market in the first place -- and also argued that pouring tens of billions of dollars into the market to stop prices falling would only encourage more people to stay in the market, and potentially get hurt even more badly if the market later fell further.
Chinese President Xi Jinping (R) raises his glass during a toast as Mark Fields (L), President and Chief Executive Officer of Ford Motor Company, looks on during a dinner reception in Seattle, Washington on Sept. 22, 2015. Photo: Reuters/Jason Redmond
However Xi said there were “inherent laws” that governed the fluctuations of stock markets, and said it was the duty of the government to guarantee an "open, fair, and just market order, and prevent massive panic.” He said the authorities had taken action in order to “stabilize the market," and had "contained a mood of panic and avoided systemic risk.” The Chinese stock market, he added, was now in a phase of “self-recovery” and “self-adjustment.” (Though volatility has remained -- the main Shanghai Composite Index fell 2.2 percent Wednesday after new figures indicated a continuing fall in demand for China's manufactured goods.) 
Xi also spoke out on the sudden devaluation of the yuan by about 2.8 percent in August. Many observers at the time interpreted this as a panicked response to a sharp slowdown in Chinese exports in July, and worries about these issues were seen as a factor in subsequent plunges on global stock markets later the same month.
However, Xi implied that the move was largely a technical one, designed to “give the market a greater role in determining the exchange rates,” and said it was also aimed at “correcting exchange rate deviation” -- an apparent reference to the sharp rise in the value of the yuan against currencies including the euro earlier this year, due to a rise in the U.S. dollar, to which the Chinese currency is pegged. Xi also stressed that there was no basis for continuing depreciation and said China would not “lower the yuan exchange rate to boost exports,” and was opposed to a "currency war."
Xi’s remarks were clearly designed to reassure his audience of U.S. businesspeople, some of whom have expressed concern about not only the economic situation in China, but also the investment climate -- with complaints from a number of foreign business groups in recent weeks that China has not lived up to promises to open up more sectors of its economy to foreign business. Xi stressed that China would push ahead with reforms in this field, to create “a level playing field in the market, with a special focus on IPR (intellectual property rights) protection,” and “will never close its open door to the outside world.”
Chinese President Xi Jinping speaks during a meeting with five United States governors to discuss clean technology and economic development in Seattle, Washington on Sept. 22, 2015.  Photo: Reuters/Matt Mills McKnight
He also said that hacking -- a contentious topic after the U.S. accused Chinese hackers of breaking into the federal government’s computer system and personnel records -- was illegal, and called for a "high-level joint dialogue mechanism" with the U.S on fighting cyber crime.
But it was Xi’s comments on corruption that most took his audience by surprise. While his crackdown on corruption within the Communist Party and government has won significant public support in China in the past few years, critics have said that some of its highest profile targets have been those who could pose a political threat to Xi -- while human rights groups have criticized it for using extra-legal detention in some cases, and for resolving complex cases in closed trials lasting just a few hours. 
The Chinese leadership has previously done its best to ignore such comments. But Xi told his audience that, since the Communist Party had 87 million members, it was inevitable that it would have “problems of this kind or that.” He said strict enforcement of party discipline was necessary to avoid “losing the trust and support of the people” -- but stressed that what he called “our vigorous campaign against corruption” had punished officials both high and low, before adding: “There is no power struggle involved in this, there is no 'House of Cards'.”
The remarks seem to be an attempt to address foreign criticisms -- and also perhaps to personalize the Chinese leader in front of his U.S. audience, and show that he is in touch with international culture. (Xi also spoke of his love of Ernest Hemingway’s novel The Old Man and the Sea -- and said he had made a point of going to Hemingway’s favorite bar on a visit to Cuba, and ordered his "favorite mojito.")
Chinese President Xi Jinping (L) is introduced by former U.S. National Security Advisor and Secretary of State Henry Kissinger at a policy speech to Chinese and United States CEOs during a dinner reception in Seattle, Washington on Sept. 22, 2015.  Photo: Reuters/Jason Redmond
The "House of Cards" reference may have also been aimed at a domestic audience in China, where some analysts have said there are now signs of some public cynicism as to whether the anti-corruption campaign is partly a tool for Xi to assert his authority. The Netflix show was also very popular in China, where the first two seasons of the series starring Kevin Spacey as conniving politician Frank Underwood attracted millions of viewers when shown on Sohu.com. The third season, released earlier this year, was not shown officially -- possibly because of China’s new rules requiring pre-approval of foreign shows screened on the Chinese Internet. However it was widely viewed on pirate streaming sites -- and the head of China’s anti-corruption campaign Wang Qishan is himself reported to be a fan.
Chinese media said this week that 140,000 suspects had been sent for trial over the past three years as a result of the anti-corruption campaign, and added that a growing number of officials at provincial or ministerial level were under judicial investigation.
LONDON -- Uber Technologies is facing a big challenge to continue to grow its business in China where local player Didi Kuaidi dominates. Its latest move to increase its 11 percent market share is UberCommute, a service that will allow users traveling long distances to pick up passengers on the way in order to share the fare.
UberCommute will initially roll out in Uber's biggest single market, Chengdu, and this represents the first time a major new Uber product has been launched outside the U.S. -- showing just how important this market is for the company. The service will roll out to other countries in time, Uber said, and will complement rather than replace its UberPool service, which it launched last year. UberPool is currently available in 12 cities around the world.
This is how it will work. "Drivers sign into the app and tell Uber where they are going. We then show them requests from riders who are traveling in the same direction as well as the payment they will receive for the trip," the company said in a blog post announcing UberCommute.
Uber's growth in China, since the company launched operations in the Asian country in July 2014, has been impressive, grabbing 11 percent share of the ride-sharing market, which is dominated by Didi Kuaidi, a company backed not only by the Chinese government but by heavyweight Chinese companies like Alibaba and Tencent.
Last week Didi took its first tentative steps into the U.S. market in a deal with Lyft. Along with a $100 million investment in the company, Didi and Lyft users will be able to use their own apps to order each other's cars in their home countries, avoiding high currency charges and the need for downloading a new app.
The announcement by Uber comes at the same time as a report was published suggesting the company was about to close a major deal to take over a huge office space in Oakland, California. The deal is expected to be confirmed Wednesday morning. The building, which has room for 3,000 workers, would join the company's office in Market Street and its soon-to-be-opened headquarters in the Mission District in San Francisco.
An investigation into Sunday’s fatal plane crash in New York state revealed that the Colgate University student, who was flying the aircraft, should not have carried a passenger, according to federal aviation rules. The small plane crashed in Madison County, killing both people aboard.
Cathryn "Carey" Depuy, the 18-year-old pilot of the single-engine Cessna 150, got a student pilot license in October 2013, the Associated Press reported Tuesday, citing official records. As per Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) rules, Depuy was allowed to fly only with an instructor on board till she received a solo endorsement on her record, according to AP. However, even then she was not certified to fly a passenger.
Depuy, along with classmate Ryan Adams, also 18, from Ridgefield, Connecticut, had rented the aircraft from Hamilton Municipal Airport in Madison County. Neighbors, who witnessed the crash, called emergency personnel and said they saw the "plane come out of the air and crash" into a wooded area.
“There wasn’t much for us to do, obviously nothing I can do as an emergency responder. They were already gone,” Morrisville Fire Chief Rick Gorton said at the time.
While the cause of the crash was not yet known, the plane seemed to have struck a tree before going down in a forest adjoining a field.
India, one of the largest defense buyers in the world, has finalized a $2.5 billion deal to buy attack and heavy transport helicopters from Boeing Co., ahead of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to the United States later this week.
India's cabinet committee on security cleared the agreement to purchase 22 Apache attack helicopters and 15 Chinook heavy-lift choppers, according to a Press Trust of India report Tuesday. The deal -- for the multi-role combat helicopters that have seen combat in Afghanistan, and are capable of operating at night and engaging multiple targets, and the transport helicopters -- was being negotiated since 2013, according to PTI. A report from Reuters, citing two government sources it did not name, said the deal would boost defense ties with the U.S. 
The deal involves one contract with Boeing for the helicopters and another with the U.S. government for the related weapons, radars and electronic warfare systems, according to the report. India also has the option to buy an additional 11 Apache fighter copters and four more Chinooks, according to the report.
Modi's government has stepped up defense purchases, including Rafale fighter jets from France's Dassault Aviation SA, and attack drones from Israel. And the latest agreement adds to about $10 billion in defense contracts that American companies have bagged from India over the last decade, the PTI report added. These include the acquisition of P-8I maritime surveillance planes, C-130J Super Hercules and C-17 Globemaster-III transport aircraft. 
The Indian leader will be in the U.S. on a five-day visit starting Sept. 24, and his itinerary includes the U.N. General Assembly in New York and Silicon Valley.
HONG KONG (Reuters) - Asian stocks fell on Wednesday as fears of an entrenched global economic slowdown gripped investors, underlined by a weak factory survey from China, while the greenback firmed as investors fled to relatively safe-haven assets.
MSCI's broadest index of Asia-Pacific shares outside Japan slipped 2 percent, with Australia down 1.8 percent and South Korea falling 1 percent. S&P mini futures fell 1 percent after the weak China PMI.
"The industrial sector in China remains a concern indicating that the economy is not out of the woods yet while the Fed's comments last week indicate a glass half-empty view of the global economy," said Tai Hui, chief Asia market strategist at JP Morgan Asset Management in Hong Kong.
More evidence of an entrenched slowdown was evident as activity in China's factory sector shrank at a faster pace than expected in September, falling to its weakest level in 6-1/2 years as domestic and export demand continued to slump, a private survey showed.
China's stock markets took the weak data on the chin with main indices down between 2-3 percent in opening trades. Japanese markets are shut through Wednesday.
Fresh cracks in the commodities complex, amplified by drops in copper, raised concerns that a China-led slowdown may pose significant headwinds for riskier assets, particularly global equities. On Tuesday, the Asian Development Bank lowered its growth forecast for China to 6.8 percent for 2015.
Overnight on Wall Street, the Dow Jones industrial average fell 1.09 percent, the S&P 500 lost 1.23 percent, and the Nasdaq Composite fell 1.5 percent to 4,756.72.
Losses in equities prompted investors to plough funds into fixed income assets. The benchmark two-year U.S. Treasury yield fell to 0.67 percent, nearing a two-week low.
The spread between the 10-year bond and the 2-year bond has narrowed to 146 basis points from 176 basis points in early July, indicating markets were expecting sub-par economic growth.
Risk aversion was particularly evident in the currency complex with the relatively higher-yielding Australian dollar wallowing at more than one-week lows.
In currencies, the U.S. dollar consolidated most of its overnight gains in early Asian trade. It held firm at 96.439 against a basket of six currencies, after earlier rising 1 percent. The Japanese yen held firm against the dollar at 120.24 as investors shied away from adding risky bets.
U.S. crude futures rose 0.5 percent to $46.57 per barrel, while Brent futures were 0.3 percent firmer at $49.22.
In its biggest one-day drop in more than two months, copper sank to three-week lows as fund and speculative selling pushed prices through sell stops, accelerating the pace of declines.
A 19-commodity Thomson Reuters/Core Commodity CRB Index languishing at two-week lows.
Broader risk aversion failed to lift demand for precious metals with both spot gold and silver nursing big overnight losses.
By Saikat Chatterjee
HONG KONG (Reuters) -- Asian stocks fell on Wednesday as global growth worries stung Wall Street, sending investors scampering to the relative safety of the yen and government debt.
MSCI's broadest index of Asia-Pacific shares outside Japan slipped 0.3 percent, withAustralia down 1.3 percent and South Korea falling 0.8 percent. Japanese markets are shut through Wednesday.
Fresh cracks in the commodities complex, amplified by drops in copper, raised concerns that a China-led slowdown may pose significant headwinds for riskier assets, particularly equities.
Downside risks to global growth have increased and the weak economic outlook will make achieving world development goals more difficult than in the past, the head of the International Monetary Fund said on Tuesday.
Attention will be squarely focused on the China August flash factory PMI survey due to be released at 0145 GMT.
Economists polled by Reuters expect the flash PMI to edge up to 47.5 in September from the final 47.3 in August, but that would still leave it near 6-1/2-year lows and point to a seventh straight monthly contraction in activity.
On Tuesday, the Asian Development Bank lowered its growth forecast for China to 6.8 percent for 2015.
Overnight on Wall Street, the Dow Jones industrial average fell 1.09 percent, the S&P 500lost 1.23 percent, and the Nasdaq Composite fell 1.5 percent to 4,756.72.
Losses in equities prompted investors to plough funds into fixed income assets. The benchmark two-year U.S. Treasury yield fell to 0.67 percent, nearing a two-week low.
In currencies, the U.S. dollar consolidated most of its overnight gains in early Asian trade. It held firm at 96.439 against a basket of six currencies, after earlier rising 1 percent. The Japanese yen held firm against the dollar at 120.24 as investors shied away from adding risky bets.
U.S. crude futures rose 0.4 percent to $46.51 per barrel, while Brent futures were 0.2 percent firmer at $49.18.
(Editing by Shri Navaratnam)
Turing Pharmaceuticals, a small company that generated outrage over raising the cost of an old anti-infective drug by more than 5,000 percent, said on Tuesday it would roll back that increase to make sure it remains affordable.
Turing and its Chief Executive Officer Martin Shkreli became the new face of the U.S. drug pricing controversy this week, after the New York Times reported that the company had raised the price of Daraprim, a 62-year-old treatment for a dangerous parasitic infection, to $750 a pill from $13.50 after acquiring it. The medicine once sold for $1 a pill.
The story sparked outrage among patients, medical societies and Democratic presidential front-runner Hillary Clinton, who outlined on Tuesday a proposal to cap skyrocketing prescription drug costs for consumers.
"We've agreed to lower the price of Daraprim to a point that is more affordable and is able to allow the company to make a profit, but a very small profit, and we think these changes will be welcome," Shkreli told ABC World News Tonight. The final cost was still being determined, but would be less than $750 per pill.
Earlier in the day, PhRMA, the pharmaceutical industry's main lobbying group, sought to distance itself from Turing's move, posting on Twitter that the drugmaker "does not represent the values of PhRMA member companies."
Asked for further details, the lobby group noted that Turing is not one of its members, which include global drugmakers such as Merck & Co, Pfizer and Novartis.
"PhRMA members have a long history of drug discovery and innovation that has led to increased longevity and improved lives for millions of patients," the group said in a statement. "Turing Pharmaceutical is not a member of PhRMA and we do not embrace either their recent actions or the conduct of their CEO.”
In an interview on CNBC on Monday, an unapologetic Shkreli said that Daraprim had been priced too low and that his company needed to generate profits that it would spend on new research and development. PhRMA member companies have made similar arguments on the need to price new drugs high enough to ensure that they have enough to cover their R&D investments.
Asked if he would lower the price in response to the furor, Shkreli simply responded, "No."
(Reporting by Bill Berkrot and Caroline Humer in New York, Peter Cooney in Washington)
In the wake of revelations that Volkswagen deceived regulators and car buyers about the high level of polluting emissions from its diesel-powered vehicles, you have two options if you own one of these cars: Park it or pollute.
For now, that’s the message to U.S. owners of 482,000 Volkswagen Group diesel cars that spew up to 40 times the legal limit of nitrogen oxides, greenhouse gases that contribute to the severe public health threat of urban ozone pollution. Outside of this, the cars themselves pose no safety threat, and the company says it is working on a solution that will bring the vehicles’ emissions levels into compliance with state and federal law.“Volkswagen is working at full speed to clarify irregularities concerning a particular software used in diesel engines,” Volkswagen spokesman John Shilling said by email on Tuesday. “I do not have specific timing for these measures right now.”
Volkswagen’s process is unlikely to follow traditional automotive recall procedures that are familiar to most Americans. Car and truck recalls often occur after auto-safety regulators pressure an automaker to fix dangerous parts as soon as possible. In Volkswagen’s case, owners of the company’s safe-but-dirty cars will have to wait. The company must first deliver to state and federal regulators a software patch that removes programming code created to deceive emissions testing equipment.    The fuel economy and smog ratings are shown on the sticker price of a 2015 Passat limited edition vehicle at a Volkswagen dealership in Escondido, California, September 21, 2015. Lawmakers on a panel in the House of Representatives will hold a hearing on Volkswagen's emissions from diesel vehicles in coming weeks, lawmakers said on Monday.  Photo: ReutersS/Mike Blake   “They will not go ahead with the recall until Volkswagen and the EPA agree on the fix,” said Anup Bandivadekar, a program director at the International Council on Clean Transportation, the group that first identified the problem. “For owners, they’re probably feeling bad realizing their vehicles have been emitting these pollutants all along, but otherwise the cars are safe to drive.”Volkswagen Group, which owns a raft of vehicle brands including Audi and Porsche, is facing intense scrutiny from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), federal prosecutors and California regulators for gaming emissions testing procedures and leading car owners to believe they were driving cars that provided fuel economy similar to that of a hybrid car. As many as 11 million cars worldwide have the problem, and Volkswagen has suspended the sale of all its diesel cars with 2-liter engines in the U.S. and Canada.The motives for installing the hack into the cars is unclear, but it’s possible that the cars might perform differently, said Bandivadekar.“Once the problem is fixed, it is possible that fuel economy and performance, such as acceleration time, will be affected,” he said. “But it’s not easy to make a categorical statement about it because we do not know right now exactly how Volkswagen has been calibrating the engines.”
The German auto group has set aside $7.23 billion (6.5 billion euros) to “cover the necessary service measures and other efforts to win back the trust of our customers,” Shilling said. Separately, the EPA has slapped the company with a massive $18 billion fine. In 2014, Volkswagen Group earned $12.1 billion on $225.51 billion in revenue.
Volkswagen Group stock fell 14.80 percent to 114.59 euros ($127.52) on Tuesday. The company’s shares have plummeted nearly 30 percent since Monday, the first trading day after the Wall Street Journal reported the company’s deception over the weekend.
“Determinations regarding potential penalties and other remedies will be assessed as part of the investigation EPA has opened in conjunction with the U.S. Department of Justice,” EPA spokeswoman Liz Purchia said in a statement.
The move has angered Volkswagen vehicle owners, many of whom gravitated to the company’s clean-diesel marketing pitch. Volkswagen’s diesel cars enticed eco-conscious buyers with performance and fuel-economy statistics -- numbers that are now problematic.
“I settled on the Volkswagen because it was fun and sporty to drive, and the Prius was doggy and slow and wasn’t very powerful,” a 2013 Volkswagen Jetta diesel owner told Automotive News when asked why he chose the Jetta over Toyota’s wimpy but fuel-sipping hybrid sedan.
Now owners of 2009-2015 model years Jettas, Beetles, Golfs and Audi A3s (as well as the 2014-15 Passat) will have to wait for Volkswagen to announce a formal recall of the vehicles.
By Caroline Valetkevitch
NEW YORK (Reuters) -- U.S. stocks dropped on Tuesday as a selloff in commodities dragged down materials shares and Volkswagen suppliers' shares dropped following the German carmaker's emissions scandal.
S&P materials, down 1.8 percent, led the decline for the S&P 500, but the selloff was broad-based, with all 10 major sectors lower.
More worries about slower growth in China pushed commodities to two-week lows, with copper prices and industrial metals leading losses. U.S. crude oil also settled lower.
Shares of Volkswagen suppliers BorgWarner, Honeywell and Delphi Automotive fell after the German carmaker admitted to cheating on vehicle emission tests. BorgWarner shares were down 7.6 percent at $39.37, while Honeywell fell 1.7 percent to $96.04 and Delphi lost 3.6 percent to $74.44.
Biotech stocks fell for a second day after Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton said she would propose a $250 monthly cap on prescription drugs. The Nasdaq Biotech Index was down 1.7 percent.
"It's China. It's the Fed. It's slowing global growth. The news on Volkswagen is overhanging the auto industry. There is a bit of a bubble in the healthcare area," said Tim Ghriskey, chief investment officer of Solaris Group in Bedford Hills, New York.
The Dow Jones industrial average fell 179.72 points, or 1.09 percent, to 16,330.47, the S&P 500 lost 24.23 points, or 1.23 percent, to 1,942.74 and the Nasdaq Composite dropped 72.23 points, or 1.5 percent, to 4,756.72.
The Fed's decision last week to keep rates near zero has left investors guessing when the central bank will make its big move, increasing volatility in the market.
Atlanta Fed President Dennis Lockhart said on Monday a rate hike later this year was still possible. Lockhart is scheduled to speak again later on Tuesday. Fed Chair Janet Yellen speaks on Thursday.
The CBOE Volatility index, Wall Street's fear gauge, jumped 11.4 percent to 22.44, above its long-term average of 20.
Goldman Sachs fell 1.9 percent to $179.83 and was the biggest drag on the Dow after Chief Executive Lloyd Blankfein said he had a "highly curable" form of lymphoma.
Declining issues outnumbered advancing ones on the NYSE by 2,442 to 623, for a 3.92-to-1 ratio on the downside; on the Nasdaq, 2,171 issues fell and 636 advanced for a 3.41-to-1 ratio favoring decliners.
The S&P 500 posted 1 new 52-week high and 35 lows; the Nasdaq recorded 16 new highs and 118 lows.
About 7.3 billion shares changed hands on U.S. exchanges, below the roughly 8.3 billion daily average for the past 20 trading days, according to Thomson Reuters data.
(Additional reporting by Tanya Agrawal in Bengaluru; Editing by Savio D'Souza and Nick Zieminski)
The United Nations is making it easier for companies and people to "offset" their carbon dioxide emissions by investing in clean energy projects in developing countries. The initiative aims to minimize carbon pollution in the short-term as countries wrestle with shifting their energy mix from fossil fuels toward lower-carbon alternatives.
"We would like to puncture the myth that 'carbon neutrality' is impossible," Christiana Figueres, the U.N.'s climate change chief, said in a Tuesday meeting at U.N. headquarters in New York City.
The platform, called Climate Neutral Now, lets visitors calculate their personal carbon footprints. The average U.S. citizen generates nearly 20 metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent in a given year, although a city-dwelling vegetarian who recycles and doesn't drive a car only netted about 5 tons of carbon dioxide, according to the tool. The platform is far from comprehensive, however. It doesn't ask visitors to tally total airline miles traveled -- a major emissions source -- or calculate emissions from purchases of consumer goods, including clothing, electronics or home decorations, all of which carry a carbon burden.
Visitors can use their carbon counts to figure out how many "certified emissions reductions," or credits, they should purchase. For $3.50, a user can back a small-scale hydroelectric plant in Kerala, India, and offset 1 metric ton of carbon. A $2.40 credit backs a methane-capture facility at a swine waste treatment plant in Chile. Other options include biomass solar and wind power projects, energy efficiency initiatives and reforestation programs in dozens of countries.
Climate scientists say the world's total greenhouse gas emissions must peak within 10 years and then swiftly decline in order to keep temperatures from rising above 2 degrees Celsius (3.2 degrees Fahrenheit), the level needed to avoid the most catastrophic effects of climate change, including brutal drought and widespread flooding. By 2050, the planet must become carbon neutral, meaning any remaining emissions will be absorbed by trees and wetlands, or captured and stored underground.
This figure shows worldwide greenhouse gas emissions by sector from 1990 to 2010. Photo: U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
Figueres is spearheading the ongoing negotiations for a global climate treaty. Nearly 200 nations have agreed to forge a plan to reduce worldwide emissions during a U.N. conference in Paris this December.
Carbon offset programs first emerged after the 1997 Kyoto Protocol, the treaty under which the European Union and other industrialized countries -- excluding the United States and China -- agreed to slash emissions. The U.N. launched the Clean Development Mechanism to help launch environmental projects in developing countries by drawing dollars from wealthier nations and large companies.
A decade later, the U.N.'s Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change confirmed it found "unequivocal" evidence of global warming and that human activities were mostly to blame. The findings energized the climate movement and sparked renewed interest in climate offsets. For travelers and businesses concerned about their carbon footprints, buying credits was more realistic than staying at home to avoid airplane emissions, but still enabled them to support clean energy growth.
The enthusiasm didn't last long, however. As international climate talks sputtered in Copenhagen in 2009, and with the global financial crisis rippling through the world's economies, suddenly carbon credits seemed like a frivolous extra to many consumers. With demand dipping, the world's carbon offset market is largely oversupplied, which is pushing down prices.
After peaking in 2008 at $7.3 per metric ton, the average global price for voluntary credits has dropped to $3.8 per ton of carbon dioxide, according to Ecosystem Marketplace, which tracks the industry.
Still, the market is far from dissolved. Companies, governments and individuals voluntarily spent nearly $4.5 billion over the past decade to purchase nearly 1 billion offsets from projects that halt deforestation, develop renewable energy projects, boost energy efficiency in buildings and provide cleaner-burning cookstoves to low-income communities, Ecosystem Marketplace found in a June report.
Critics of carbon offsetting have said they worry the programs take the pressure off energy companies, power utilities and airlines to invest in energy efficiency or lower-carbon energy sources. They argue there's little proof that initiatives actually cancel out emissions created by driving a car, burning coal-fired power or watching hours of television. In the worst cases, some carbon credits have been sold multiple times, or green initiatives backed by credits fail.
Lambert Schneider, who chairs the executive board for the Clean Development Mechanism, said the U.N.-backed program avoids these pitfalls through rigorous reviews, accounting and audits. "No other mechanism has such a comprehensive international oversight in place, with so many checks and balances," he said on the sidelines of the Tuesday meetings.
U.N. officials also said they set a goal to make all U.N. agencies and organizations carbon neutral by 2020. Figueres suggested the deadline should be sooner. "I don't think it's acceptable for anymore [to wait], because we've actually made it so much easier," she said. "We have to up the ante."
Nissan unveiled the redesigned 2016 Altima to the media Tuesday, showing off the mid-cycle refresh of the car’s fifth-generation design. While it’s not a full generation change, the Altima’s restyling is still incredibly important to Nissan -- the Altima is the brand’s best-selling vehicle in America, accounting for a quarter of its sales.
Sales of the Altima, a midsize sedan, have risen steadily for the past five years, and if Nissan wants to remain competitive with other popular imports, strong Altima sales will be key, even as the market continues to shift toward crossovers.
Underneath the reskinned body (which takes some  heavy influence from the new Nissan Maxima), the Altima remains largely the same as the model introduced in 2013, with the same engines (a 2.5L four-cylinder and a 3.5L six-cylinder) and CVT.
The 2016 Nissan Altima will hit dealer lots in fall 2016, most likely at the end of October.
SAN FRANCISCO -- Chinese President Xi Jinping arrived in Everett, Washington, Tuesday morning for his first official state visit to the United States. Xi's weeklong trip kicks off with a policy speech to be delivered in Seattle, where he is expected to address a variety of topics ranging from cybersecurity to U.S.-Sino trade relations. 
The speech will be the only one Xi will deliver during his stay in the United States and will be streamed live online. Users can tune in at 8:30 p.m. EDT and view the speech in English here or in Chinese here. There will be 800 U.S. and Chinese business and government leaders at the event, including U.S. Secretary of Commerce Penny Pritzker, who will also deliver remarks on behalf of the U.S. at the event. 
Those watching will be hoping to hear where Xi stands on a variety of controversial topics looming over U.S.-China relations. This will include cybersecurity since the U.S. often blames China for hacking into government agencies for cyberespionage and hacking into American businesses to give their own companies competitive advantages. Other topics to be addressed include climate change, China's tech industry, and the South China Sea, a key commercial trade route where China has been busy building artificial islands for military facilities. 
Following Tuesday night's dinner, Xi will spend the bulk of Wednesday in Seattle and Washington state meeting with a variety of tech companies and leaders, including Apple CEO Tim Cook, Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos and Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella. Xi will conclude his stay in Washington on Wednesday night at a dinner to be hosted in the private home of Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates. The next day, Xi will head to Washington, D.C., for a dinner with President Barack Obama and other U.S. government leaders. 
On the eve of Xi's visit, he gave an exclusive interview to the Wall Street Journal, notable because Xi rarely speaks with foreign media, and this was his first interview since China's stock markets experienced a meltdown in June, CNN/Money reported.
When chief executives are stricken with severe or life-threatening diseases, are they obligated to share details about their personal health with their company and its shareholders? Goldman Sachs CEO and Chairman Lloyd Blankfein told investors Tuesday that he has lymphoma, a common form of blood cancer. Blankfein’s announcement came just a day after he learned of his diagnosis and illustrates a shift in the debate over whether the details of a CEO's illness and treatment are inherently private or public.
“I think it’s very important that you have a timely and transparent disclosure when something like this happens,” Anthea Zhang, a strategic management expert at Rice University, said. “For ordinary people, a health issue is private information. But for some person who is CEO of a large public company, it's not only his or her private issue; it's also related to shareholder wealth.”
Blankfein’s announcement is in line with those of several other high-profile business leaders who have recently chosen to disclose life-threatening illnesses. James Dimon, chairman and CEO of JPMorgan Chase and Co., openly discussed his battle with throat cancer over the past year while continuing to fulfill his duties at the bank. Since 2012, Warren Buffet, founder of Berkshire Hathaway Inc., has been upfront with investors as he has fought prostate cancer.
In every case, a company must consider the delicate balance between protecting private health information and sharing knowledge that is pertinent to its own well-being. 
"You want to be respectful for the person who has this affliction, but at the same time, it's information that's relevant not only to the board of directors but also to shareholders," David Larcker, a specialist in corporate governance at Stanford University, said. "It's a very tough trade-off to make. That's just the nature of business -- there are no bright-line rules around this."
What was once a personal decision has morphed into a question of corporate responsibility, and even liability. A publicly traded company is required by law to disclose information that can “materially” impact an investor's decision to buy or sell its stock. Increasingly, companies have decided to act as though the fact that a CEO is experiencing a serious health condition falls within that definition.
“In many court cases, the health of the CEO has actually been considered a material issue that needs to be brought to investors’ attention,” Rita McGrath, a strategic management consultant, said. “You don't always have a choice.” In fact, McGrath said, she can no longer imagine a scenario in which a CEO who was seriously ill could withhold that information from shareholders or the company’s board.
David Lewin, a consultant who specializes in leadership and management issues and professor at the University of California Los Angeles, said trying to keep such information secret likely would be a losing battle in the age of the Internet, where the lives of everyone from celebrities to prominent business executives are more open and accessible than ever.
"A prudent company would, I think, recognize the likelihood of such a fact becoming known," he said. "If it recognizes that, it might well take steps to make it known so that at least, it's the one making it known rather than having it surface in some other way." 
In a departure from that trend, Apple Inc. co-founder Steve Jobs waited a year after his diagnosis to tell employees and investors that he had pancreatic cancer. He would later call concerns about his personal health “a distraction” to employees even as he prepared to take a medical leave of absence from the company. Jobs died in 2011.
"Different companies handle it in different ways," Larcker said. "Some are very quick and very transparent about this, and I think that gives shareholders a lot of trust, saying the board's on top of this, and should there be a succession event, they've got a plan in place."
Blankfein said in a note that his form of lymphoma is “highly curable” and that he will seek treatment in the coming months. He said he expects to be cured and will continue to lead the company “as normal” while undergoing treatment, though he did cancel a few trips that had been planned during that time.
Experts said Goldman is prepared to handle the inevitable unknowns that arise as its CEO pursues cancer treatment.
“I think there's a lot of trust in the depth of Goldman's bench,” McGrath said. "Rather than people finding out, I think they're better off being very upfront about it.”
Lymphoma is a type of blood cancer that is divided into non-Hodgkin's lymphoma and Hodgkin's lymphoma. Blankfein did not specify which kind of lymphoma he has, but Hodgkin's lymphoma in particular is considered highly treatable. Still, Goldman’s stock wavered soon after Blankfein’s announcement, dropping by about 2.7 percent in midday trading.
Lewin said should it become necessary, the firm has a long history of managing smooth and successful transitions.
“I think one can say that with Goldman, they're prepared for Blankfein coming back and accepting this diagnosis and things being as they were, and I think they’re prepared for the opposite, as well,” Lewin said.
Zhang said there is one thing that Goldman could do differently to better prepare itself in its management strategy: split the role of CEO and chairman of the board between two people instead of allowing one person such as Blankfein to occupy both. The division could help protect a company against an interruption in or sudden loss of leadership.
“From a risk management perspective, it's really important to divide those key positions between two different persons,” Zhang said. 
Minnesota Vikings fans are outraged this week after the franchise broke off negotiations with Ragnar the Viking, its unofficial mascot for the past two decades, due to high salary demands. But industry standards suggest Ragnar’s attempt to pillage the franchise’s coffers was misguided.
Joe Juranitch, the man behind the Vikings’ Ragnar character, sought $20,000 per game over the next 10 years to dress like a real-life Viking and lead the team’s players onto the field on his trademark motorcycle -- a substantial raise from his current salary of $1,500 per game, according to the Associated Press. For the Vikings, who also have a costumed official mascot named Viktor, Ragnar just isn’t valuable enough to justify such a drastic raise.
“You’re not going to pay him $160,000 because you like him and he does a nice job. That’s great, too, but at some point, you gotta say, 'We can’t spend that money for something relatively ancillary,'” said Dave Raymond, the original Phillie Phanatic and founder of Raymond Entertainment, a mascot staffing and consulting firm. “The fans like him, but they’re not revolting and turning in their season tickets because he’s not coming,”
Full-time, costumed team mascots, even those who have just started in the industry, regularly earn a minimum of $50,000 annually, with thousands more in incentive-based earnings, Raymond said. More seasoned performers, like Clutch of the NBA’s Houston Rockets or the Phanatic of MLB’s Philadelphia Phillies, earn six-figure salaries, bolstered through their value as performers, merchandising and advertising. These well-known mascots often serve as brand ambassadors, standing in for team executives and players in commercials and fan events. Salaries can drop off dramatically for independent contractors like Juranitch. That’s particularly true if the freelancer’s value to the franchise and its fan community is considered replaceable.
Juranitch had served as the Vikings’ unofficial team mascot since 1993, when he was selected from among 3,000 applicants. His horned helmet has been a fixture at Vikings home games, where Ragnar has made appearances for the past two decades.
The Vikings declined to comment on whether Juranitch appeared as Ragnar at team functions besides home games or represented the franchise in any capacity away from the field. Team officials thanked Juranitch for his longtime service in a statement this week.
“This offseason, Joe Juranitch’s [Ragnar] contract with the Vikings expired. Since then the team has had multiple conversations with Joe but has not been able to reach an agreement on his role with the team moving forward. The Vikings greatly appreciate what Ragnar has meant to the organization and to the fans over the last two decades. We intend to honor his 21 seasons on the field during a 2015 Vikings home game, and we will welcome him to future ceremonial events. We will always consider Ragnar an important part of Vikings history,” the team’s statement said.
The team’s decision to move on from its association with Ragnar is receiving a negative reaction from Vikings fans, who are taking to the Internet to voice their displeasure. The Facebook post in which Juranitch announced his absence from Vikings games received nearly 900 “likes” as of Tuesday morning. A Change.org petition asking to “Reinstate Ragnar” amassed nearly 10,000 signatures.
Most professional sports franchises in America’s four major sports employ some form of an official mascot. Raymond’s firm has worked with several professional sports teams, including the MLB’s Phillies, the Cincinnati Reds, the NFL’s Philadelphia Eagles and Manchester City FC of the English Premier League. He estimates “close to 100 percent” of NBA teams have a full-time mascot, and said the league’s mascots are among the highest-paid in the country. Roughly half of all teams in the MLB, NFL and NHL employ a full-time official mascot.
A mascot’s value lies entirely in his ability to drive fan engagement and brand appeal, Raymond said. Salaries are dictated by whether a franchise feels it can receive a return on its investment -- through merchandise sales, advertising and fan goodwill -- at roughly two to four times a performance’s annual wages. It’s up to the team to tabulate those benefits as a dollar amount.
For a performer like Juranitch -- a longtime franchise employee but one who lacks a costume or a full-time deal, a request of about $5,000 per game would have been more realistic, Raymond added. Juranitch’s $20,000-per-game demand would have paid $2 million over 10 years, counting preseason games.
“If all he’s doing is appearing at games, frankly, you could find a good actor and develop your own human Viking costume and get somebody to do an outstanding job and still get value from a fan standpoint,” Raymond said.
SHANGHAI -- The Chinese media did its best to put a positive spin on President Xi Jinping’s first state visit to the United States, ahead of his arrival in Seattle on Tuesday, with the official People’s Daily newspaper stressing that “negotiations on many key sectors are close to a successful outcome.” It added that the two countries are “likely to seal more than 40 agreements and deals, including a major one on climate change.”
Yet the positive mood of last year’s summit in Beijing, which led to a landmark climate change accord, has evolved to one of tension over recent events. Worries about China’s business environment -- always an issue in a U.S. election year – have been heightened by China’s slowing economy and concerns about the Beijing government’s handling of its recent stock market crisis and currency devaluation, which spooked investors around the world. The spotlight on China has also illuminated other areas of dispute – particularly allegations of massive Chinese cyberespionage against the U.S., tensions over Chinese reclamation of land and airstrip construction on islands in disputed waters in the South China Sea, and a recent state crackdown on civil liberties.
Indeed, such is the dark mood in Washington that leading U.S. China specialist Minxin Pei described Xi's visit as “one of China’s last few opportunities to avert a U.S.-China cold war.”
Even the official White House spokesman did not hype the visit, saying last week that it would be “an opportunity to expand U.S.-China cooperation and address areas of disagreement constructively.”
It’s the issue of cyberespionage that dominates U.S. concerns: Last week President Barack Obama threatened sanctions against China if attacks continued. The heightened U.S. anger follows the hacking of the U.S. federal government’s computer system earlier this year, which officials blamed on China. The attack is believed to have compromised the data of some 4 million government employees, posing what authorities say is a potential major security risk, since it could leave staff vulnerable to blackmail or even recruitment as spies.
The office building of U.S. health insurer Anthem is seen in Los Angeles, Feb. 5, 2015. China is believed to have played a role in the cyberattack in early 2015 that compromised the data of tens of millions of people. Photo: Reuters/Gus Ruelas
In a written interview with the Wall Street Journal before his departure for the U.S., Xi denied China had carried out such hacking, calling such acts illegal and punishable. However, tensions over the issue have been rising for some time: Last year the U.S. Justice Department indicted five Chinese military officers, asserting they were part of a team that had stolen industrial secrets from U.S. businesses.
'This Isn't A Mild Irritation'
And U.S. national security adviser Susan Rice made it clear in a speech Monday that the Obama administration is no longer willing to tiptoe around the issue. "This isn’t a mild irritation. It is an economic and national security concern to the United States. It puts enormous strain on our bilateral relationship, and it is a critical factor in determining the future trajectory of U.S.-China ties," she said at George Washington University.
Also last week, Obama called on Beijing to stop its actions, saying that if China chose to compete with the U.S. in this area, “I guarantee you, we will win if we have to.”
The two sides are now reported to have been holding preliminary talks in the hopes of thrashing out a limited agreement based on a proposed U.N. framework that calls for no first-use agreement of cyberattacks against critical infrastructure.  
Yet Wu Xinbo, dean of the Center for American Studies at Shanghai’s Fudan University, accused the U.S. of having a double standard, saying it "almost constantly" monitored senior officials of foreign governments -- and telling the official Global Times newspaper that the U.S. was “just trying to pressure China to accept the rules it set in the Internet field.”
Certain Amount Of Hacking 'Inevitable'
Professor Shen Dingli, vice dean of Fudan's Institute of International Affairs, suggested some hacking by both sides was inevitable: "The only realistic compromise is not to attack other nuclear power stations or to hack into banks and forge data,” he said in a recent speech to the Shanghai Foreign Correspondents’ Club. “We should find the shortest negative list not to work on -- and collaborate to stop that. Anything else we will be unable to stop.”
Experts agreed that signficant progress was unlikely. “Even if they announce a deal, it most likely won’t be viable -- this issue can’t be settled by a protocol,” Willy Lam, a specialist on Chinese politics at the Chinese University of Hong Kong, told International Business Times. “This is unlikely to resolve the differences; both sides will carry on.”
And while analysts said the U.S. administration would likely wait until some time after the summit to assess the situation before actually introducing any sanctions against Chinese businesses or individuals, the mood of anger in the U.S. was summed up by one tech expert, who told USA Today that Obama was "pretending it's a cold war in cyberspace but we're being actively attacked" and said that technology companies were “waiting for the White House to unleash the dogs."
The opening of Xi’s visit in Seattle may have been designed to give the Chinese leader a relatively gentle introduction to his trip -- and he will certainly be welcome at the Washington state facility of Boeing, for which China is a major export market. Yet his meetings with other business leaders could see criticisms from the U.S. industry lobby -- which have been underlined by Donald Trump’s election campaign remarks that China has taken 2 million jobs from the U.S. 
There will also be some tension overshadowing the visit to an Internet Industry Forum at the Microsoft campus in Redmond, Washington, on Wednesday. The event is billed as a chance for Chinese business leaders, including Jack Ma of e-commerce pioneer Alibaba, Pony Ma of social media giant Tencent, and Lenovo head Liu Chuanzhi, to meet U.S. counterparts, including Berkshire Hathaway CEO Warren Buffett.
What's He Doing Here?
But the fact that the meeting will be attended by Lu Wei, head of the Cyberspace Administration of China and widely seen as China’s Internet censor in chief, has also attracted some criticism from human rights groups concerned about China’s controls on the Internet and the country’s new cybersecurity draft law. 
Indeed, some observers have said the meeting will give Chinese officials a chance to insist that U.S. companies sign up to Beijing’s strict terms on the “security” of high-tech products or software sold on the Chinese market – with a recent report in the New York Times suggesting that China wanted such products to be “controllable” on its terms.
Willy Lam, senior fellow at the Jamestown Foundation, said the business meetings would provide Xi with a platform “to reassure the U.S. business community that China’s economy is still working, and still open to the West.” At the same time, he noted, the Obama administration was under “significant pressure” to push China for greater opening of its market, particularly to U.S. financial institutions, in a planned bilateral investment treaty. Experts have suggested recently that China has lost some of the faith of the international business community by restricting foreign access, and pledges to create more opportunities for foreign financial institutions in areas such as Shanghai’s new free-trade zone have yielded “disappointing” results so far, Lam said.
South China Seas Issue Still Stormy
Though Xi will be greeted at the White House later in the week with a state dinner -- not a McDonald’s hamburger, which Trump said he would offer the Chinese leader -- tensions are also likely to surface in discussions over China’s reclamation of land in disputed waters in the South China Seas. Xi told the Wall Street Journal that the issue “should not be over-interpreted”-- and Chinese experts have said Beijing is simply following the lead of other countries like Vietnam in developing islands in the area. They have also downplayed U.S. concerns about the construction of at least three airstrips in the area, saying the developments are for civilian purposes, and will help with safe passage and maritime rescue. 
However, U.S. Defense Secretary Ashton Carter last week suggested American vessels should sail patrols close to the islands, since the U.S. did not recognize the waters around them as China’s territory, the Financial Times reported.
Lam said such an approach could lead China to “back down,” since he did not believe Beijing could afford military skirmishes, which he said would cause panic in China’s stock market and economy. However, a U.S. military flyover of the area earlier this year led to a close shave with Chinese planes -- and the area remains a flashpoint, with little chance of Fudan University professor Shen’s suggestion, that U.S. civilian researchers should be invited by China to base themselves on the islands, being taken up.
Chinese experts have argued that ultimately the two sides will have to seek consensus and shelve differences, and that cooperation remains the “only option.”
And the sheer scope of the relationship means that despite the problems, other areas continue to develop. Chinese media have hailed the possibility of a Chinese-built high-speed-rail line in California, while Universal Studios recently announced a new theme park in Beijing, and Dell has pledged a massive investment of $125 billion in China over the next five years. 
Environmentalists will be hoping the two sides can make further progress on climate change, ahead of the U.N. climate change conference in Paris later this year.
Nevertheless, analysts will be watching closely over the coming days to see whether the two leaders can make any real progress toward reducing differences, which, as one U.S. academic put it, have led to the first real debate about the benefits of engagement with China in the past 30 years.
TOKYO (Reuters) - Asian shares struggled to recover on Thursday with volatility remaining high, while emerging economy and commodity-linked currencies softened as investors worried about the global repercussions of slower growth in China.
Japan's Nikkei  rose for the first time in four days, gaining 1.4 percent, while South Korea's Kospi  edge up 0.4 percent, although MSCI's broadest index of Asia-Pacific shares outside Japan erased early gains.
The rally came as Wall Street stocks jumped almost 2 percent on Wednesday, which traders saw as a natural move after big falls. Despite Wednesday's rebound, shares have only recovered about half of the losses seen earlier in the week.
Also helping to boost the market, Apple , the world's largest company by market capitalization, jumped more than 4 percent, in anticipation of its Sept 9 media event where it is expected to unveil new iPhones and potentially a new version of its Apple TV set-top box.
Traders were spared for now from keeping a nail-biting watch on wild Chinese share markets, which are closed for a holiday for the rest of the week.
Still, highlighting the woes that commodity exporters are suffering from concern about cooling growth in China, the Australian dollar fell 0.3 percent after weak local retail sales.
The Aussie slipped to $0.7020  near its six-year low of $0.6982 touched on Wednesday.
Oil prices also remained volatile after their 25 percent surge late last month.
Brent crude  fell 1.0 percent to $49.99 per barrel, slipping further from one-month high of $54.32 hit on Monday, though it kept some distance from a 6 1/2-year low of $42.23 hit just one week before that.
HIGH VOLATILITY THE NEW NORM?
While global share prices may be getting some respite, any relief rallies may be brief.
With uncertainty over policy in the U.S. and China, investors expect trade to remain extremely choppy. The CBOE Volatility index  is still at 26 percent, about twice as high as its usual levels around 12 to 16 percent.
A similar gauge for the Japanese share market, the Nikkei volatility index , stood at 35 percent.
"The fact that the volatility index is staying at a such high level points to unstable markets down the road. We may need clearer signs of stabilization in China," said Takeru Ogihara, chief strategist at Mizuho Trust Bank.
In the currency market, the dollar firmed slightly against the yen, in line with recovery in global share prices, to 120.65 yen. The euro was little changed at $1.1220 , ahead of the European Central Bank's policy meeting later in the day, with some traders speculating the bank could drop hints of further easing to keep the euro zone's nascent recovery in shape.
On the other hand, many emerging market currencies remained under pressure, hit byChina fears and the prospect of higher U.S. interest rates.
The Brazilian real  tumbled to its weakest level since 2002 on Wednesday as expectations of a growing fiscal deficit fed fears that Brazil would lose its investment-grade credit rating.
Emerging market currencies could face more pressure if Friday's U.S. payrolls data reinforce expectations that the U.S. Federal Reserve is on course to raise interest rates in coming months.
On Wednesday, U.S payroll processor ADP reported that private payrolls increased 190,000 last month. While that was below economists' expectations for a gain of 201,000 jobs, it was a step up from the 177,000 positions created in July.
(Reporting by Hideyuki Sano; Editing by Eric Meijer & Kim Coghill)
Amid the recent stock market turmoil and concerns of a slowing global economy, the U.S. Federal Reserve’s latest Beige Book, released Wednesday, revealed something telling. China, the world’s second-largest economy, was mentioned eight times in the report, more than the previous five Beige Books combined. 
The word “China” did not appear in the previous Beige Book released on July 15, and it appeared just twice in the Beige Book released in early June 2015, noted John Canally, investment strategist and economist at LPL Financial, in a research note. Prior to Wednesday’s report, the five Beige Books released in 2015 mentioned China a total of just six times -- about one mention per issue. The latest Fed release arrives as financial markets remain on edge, fearing that the downturn in the Chinese economy could cause a global economic downturn.
The Beige Book, which the central bank publishes eight times a year, highlights the current condition of the U.S. economy in each of the Fed's 12 districts. It covers a range of economic activity, from manufacturing to construction to wage growth, and gives economists a glimpse of the economy's current status.
The report released Wednesday included information collected on or before Aug. 24. The report summarizes anecdotal comments from businesses and other contacts outside the Federal Reserve and is not a commentary on the views of Fed officials. 
In August, many of the Fed’s contacts in the Boston district mentioned China as a "performance factor," but the effects were "modest." Reports from three districts explicitly mentioned the Chinese slowdown as a factor, noting reduced demand for wood products in San Francisco, chemicals in Boston and high-tech goods in Dallas. 
In the manufacturing sector, one contact, a producer of biotechnology equipment, told the Fed its sales in China exceeded expectations in the most recent period. However, a manufacturer of systems for new buildings reports a definite softening in construction activity in China, which affects demand for its products.
Meanwhile, a manufacturer of building equipment says that the China slowdown will eventually lead to "cost containment" in its U.S. operations, including broad hiring restrictions in the near future, even on business lines with no exposure to China.
In the information technology sector, one firm in the Boston district reported decreases in revenues, due to “weakened demand in China and the strong U.S. dollar,” the Fed said.
The Beige Book for August arrives ahead of the Federal Reserve's highly anticipated meeting on Sept. 16 and 17, which will include a news conference by Fed Chairwoman Janet Yellen. Most economists had previously anticipated the central bank would announce raising interest rates this month for the first time in nearly a decade, but some experts have pushed out their expectations to a later date, following the recent stock market volatility.  
"We are now assuming that, even if the rally in global stock markets continues, some Fed officials will still want to hold off on raising interest rates until October or even December," Paul Ashworth, chief U.S. economist at Capital Economics, said in a note this week. 
But there is a bright spot: The U.S. economy continued to expand this summer after last winter's lackluster showing. The Federal Reserve’s Beige Book revealed Wednesday that the economy grew at a “modest to moderate” pace in the past few months as economic activity continued to expand across most U.S. regions and sectors during July to mid-August, the Federal Reserve said Wednesday.
Each of the Fed’s Beige Books is published two weeks before the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC), which is composed of the Fed's seven boards of governors and five Reserve Bank presidents. 
While many investors are trying hard to ignore the recent stock market turmoil, a growing number of American homeowners are capitalizing on the chaos. Mortgage loan applications for the week ended Aug. 28 ticked up 11.3 percent compared with the week prior, according to a Mortgage Bankers Association report released Wednesday.
In a wildly volatile week for U.S. stocks, refinances jumped 17 percent, hitting their highest level since April.
"You had some borrowers looking to refinance who really took advantage of the short availability of very low rates," Mike Fratantoni, the association's chief economist, said. "You had a number of people following the market very closely." 
The shake-up in stocks triggered by China's economic slowdown led to moments of low interest rates on 10-year U.S. Treasury notes -- a key benchmark for the mortgage-lending market. But the surge in mortgage activity tied to a particularly volatile period in the stock market may not last, especially considering that the U.S. Federal Reserve is preparing to raise interest rates sometime before the end of the year.
Nevertheless, economists contend, a steadier trend in the housing recovery, undergirded by a strengthening economy, is afoot: Things are looking up. "We do expect that improvement in the housing market to continue," Fratantoni said, adding: “Job growth and declining unemployment rate and wage growth -- those are really the factors that we focus on." 
Consider the trend in existing home sales, which account for 90 percent of the housing purchase market. “It’s one of the key numbers we pay attention to," Danielle Hale, director of housing statistics at the National Association of Realtors, said. "And we’ve seen eight-year highs in those numbers recently.”
According to the results of a recent National Association of Realtors survey, properties that sold in July 2015 typically spent 42 days on the market before closing, compared to 48 days in July 2014. Photo: National Association of Realtors
In the Chicago area, Dan Porter, owner and managing broker of the realty firm Porter House Properties, said business is bustling. “All those people who have been renting or living with mom and dad are starting to hit the market,” he told International Business Times. 
In the wake of the financial crisis, potential buyers retreated to the sidelines. “That normal flow was interrupted for a few years, so it will take us a couple years to get to what I would say is normal,” Porter said. However, he added, “everything is going in the right direction.”
In July, the annual rate for existing home sales reached 5.59 million, the highest pace since the 5.79 million recorded in February 2007. An improving job market bodes particularly well for the housing market, Hale said, because when people get jobs, “they’re able to strike out on their own” and buy a home.
“The fundamentals in the economy are really strong,” Hale said. She expected that payroll employment numbers due to be released Friday will show continued job gains, which, in turn, "should be good news for household formation and for the housing market,” she said.
As the economy improves, banks are also more willing to lend money to prospective buyers, Matthew Pointon, a property economist at research firm Capital Economics, said. He cited data from Ellie Mae showing the rise in loan applications that won approval over the past year: 71 percent of applications in July 2015, up from 62 percent in July 2014.
“Banks are feeling more confident,” Pointon said. “They’re looking ahead, and they’re seeing a strong economy. They’re seeing people’s incomes going up.”
The head of the Arby's restaurant chain has apologized to a Florida police department after an employee reportedly refused to serve a uniformed officer. In a Facebook post Tuesday, a Pembroke Pines Police Department officer said a fellow uniformed officer was denied service at a local Arby's because of his badge. "Real nice, Arby's" the post says, before encouraging others to boycott the restaurant.
In a statement, Pembroke Pines Police Chief Dan Giustino said he was "offended" and "appalled" by the refusal of service. "We are very proud of the partnerships we have built within our city," Giustino said. "For an incident like this to have happened is very disappointing for everyone."
John Rivera, president of the Miami-Dade Police Union, also called for a boycott of Arby's. "It is beyond comprehension and deeply troubling that a business would deny service to a law enforcement officer just for being a law enforcement officer," Rivera said in a statement to a local NBC station. "This is yet another example of the hostile treatment of our brave men and women simply because they wear a badge. It is unacceptable and warrants much more than an apology."
Arby's CEO Paul Brown and Senior Vice President of Operations Scott Boatwright contacted the department Wednesday to apologize on behalf of the company, according to a police report. They said the employee's behavior was "unacceptable" and did not represent Arby's values.
The officer was allegedly denied service while trying to order food at the restaurant’s drive-through. The officer was in uniform and in a police vehicle, according to the police report filed on the incident.
The drive-through employee allegedly gave the officer attitude. Then, when the officer drove to the pickup window, the store manager, Angel Mirabel, told the officer that the clerk "doesn't want to serve you because you are a police officer." Mirabel allegedly told the officer that the clerk "has the right to refuse you," USA Today reported.
Marathon Oil Corp. CEO Lee Tillman took home a $1.7 million bonus last year, in part because of the company’s expansion into the Texas and North Dakota shale formations. Meanwhile, Exxon Mobil Corp. executives saw higher payouts, thanks partly to the oil giant's drilling campaign in the Russian Arctic. That’s life in the energy business. As major companies amass greater amounts of oil, gas and coal, top executives are often rewarded with bonuses and incentive pay — and environmentalists say that’s a problem.
Environmental groups say the energy industry's pay system is pushing companies to search for and extract more reserves -- no matter the carbon intensity or cost -- at a time when climate scientists are urging nations to leave fossil fuels in the ground to avoid catastrophic climate change. Critics argue that executive compensation plans should reward leaders for investing in alternative technologies or diversifying operations, rather than efforts that increase the world’s greenhouse gas emissions.
“The CEO pay system is one reason why the fossil fuel industry has been fighting so hard to continue a business model that’s locking us into a destructive path,” said Sarah Anderson, the global economy project director at the Institute for Policy Studies, a liberal Washington think tank.
Energy companies say their executive compensation programs are an important driver of success. For publicly held companies, rewarding leaders who improve financial performance and operational results is ultimately good for the shareholders, they say. Marathon Oil’s incentives and awards “align our executives’ interests with those of our stockholders,” the Houston-based oil and gas giant said in its 2015 proxy statement. “Our program is designed to reward executives for their performance and motivate them to continue to perform at a high level.”
The CEOs of America’s largest public oil, gas and coal companies are among the highest-paid executives in the country. The heads of 30 top fossil fuel giants averaged $14.7 million apiece in total 2014 compensation, more than 9 percent higher than the $13.5 million average for the CEOs of S&P 500 companies, IPS found in a report released Wednesday. The top executives at Exxon Mobil and ConocoPhillips each earned more than twice the S&P 500 average.
The heads of 30 top fossil fuel giants averaged $14.7 million in total 2014 compensation. Here's the breakdown. Photo: Institute for Policy Studies, "Money To Burn"
Climate scientists say a substantial portion of the world’s remaining fossil fuel reserves must remain unburned in order to limit global warming to 2 degrees Celsius (3.6 degrees Fahrenheit) above pre-industrial levels -- the target governments are striving to keep to avoid the most dangerous effects of climate change, including substantial sea level rise, violent and frequent storms and disappearing ice caps. Even a 2-degree rise will have serious effects in any case.
One-third of global oil reserves, half of natural gas reserves and more than 80 percent of coal reserves must remain unused from 2010 to 2050 to meet the 2-degree target, researchers at University College London estimate. “Our results show that policymakers’ instincts to exploit rapidly and completely their territorial fossil fuels are, in aggregate, inconsistent with their commitments to this temperature limit,” authors Christopher McGlade and Paul Ekins wrote in a January paper.
Yet at 13 of the top U.S. oil exploration and production firms, executives are rewarded with bonuses for expanding fossil fuel reserves, IPS found in its report. None of the 30 energy companies on their list offer bonuses for diversifying into renewable fuel sources or reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
Other forms of executive compensation encourage a similar dynamic at energy companies. CEOs at many U.S. firms -- not just oil, gas and coal producers -- can cash in their equity-based pay, including stock options and stock grants, within three to four years. Since they can quickly reap such rewards, leaders are discouraged from developing a longer-term strategy to prepare the company for the effects of climate change or potential government policies to limit fossil fuel production, Anderson and other critics said.
Stock repurchase programs -- when companies buy their own shares back from shareholders-- can also deter fossil fuel companies from more sustainable business models, they say. Pouring profits into buybacks inflates the value of shares, further boosting equity-based pay for executives, and insulating leaders from broader market pressures, such as plunging oil prices and tighter federal regulations on coal-fired power plants.
Buybacks also take valuable investment away from research and development in alternative and renewable energy technologies, critics contend. The IPS report found 23 out of the 30 leading U.S. oil, gas and coal firms repurchased a combined $38.5 billion in shares in 2014, or nearly six times the $6.6 billion in "clean energy" R&D spending from private companies last year.
Fossil fuel and other public U.S. companies buy back stocks to shore up share prices -- which translates into more millions for top executives. Photo: Institute for Policy Studies, "Money To Burn"
Environmental and financial-reform activists are pushing to end buyback programs and extend the time horizons for equity-based pay, so that executives must wait 10 years or longer before cashing in their stock options and grants. Shareholder advocates are pushing corporate resolutions that would break the link between a company’s fossil fuel expansion and bonuses for top executives.
“The reserves should not be a metric executives are rewarded on,” said Rosanna Landis Weaver, a project manager at As You Sow, a leading shareholder activist group. “They should be incentivizing their engineers to come up with the best solutions, instead of incentivizing them to waste more oil.”
Shareholder resolutions so far have done little to shift the way CEOs at energy firms are compensated. At Exxon Mobil, activists have introduced 62 climate-related resolutions over the last 25 years, all of which were successfully opposed by management. Still, the number of shareholder proposals continues to rise, with a record 433 social and environmental resolutions filed so far in the 2015 proxy season, As You Sow found.
Other groups are working from the outside to pressure changes within fossil fuel companies. The fossil fuel divestment movement, which is active on many college campuses, is urging individual investors, endowments and philanthropies to pull stocks out of oil, gas and coal companies, both to protect their assets from oil price swings and carbon regulations and to also send a signal that those firms are undesirable.
About half the 30 companies surveyed by IPS are also listed on a separate index of 200 fossil fuel companies flagged by divestment proponents. The companies are ranked based on estimates of the total carbon dioxide emissions contained in their reserves of coal, oil and natural gas. Combined, the firms hold nearly five times the amount of carbon that can be burned for the world to have an 80 percent chance of limiting global warming to 2 degrees Celsius, according to Fossil Free Indexes.
Concerns about executive compensation “are another layer of reason to get out of these companies, because this is not a fair-pay system,” said Vanessa Green, the global individual program director at Divest Invest, a Boston advocacy group.
Anderson of IPS added, “The pressure on the companies to make this transition is only going to mount, and if they were smart, they would be proactive,” she said. “They would be spending less time fighting Obama’s climate agenda and more time thinking about how to position their companies for the clean energy future.”
New research reveals there are 3 trillion trees in the world -- far more than scientists previously thought. That's great news for conservationists and ecologists, who now have a clearer picture of the forests they aim to preserve. Now the bad news: The data, compiled as part of the largest-ever survey of the world's forests, means that every new tree that is planted plays a smaller role in the global fight to capture carbon emissions.
A team of researchers have completed the momentous challenge of counting all the world’s trees and found that there are about 422 trees for every person on earth. That number greatly overshadows the last estimate of about 400 billion trees, and it will likely appear in climate models and be cited in conservation plans for years to come. Trees are an important ally in humanity's effort to rein in carbon emissions because trees capture carbon dioxide from the atmosphere and convert it into woody biomass for their branches and trunks through a process known as carbon sequestration. Their results were published in the journal Nature Wednesday.

Thomas Crowther, the lead researcher and a postdoctoral fellow at the Yale School of Forestry and Environmental Studies, said that even though the world has more trees than previously believed, humans aren't off the hook when it comes to conservation. Quite the opposite, actually. Previous climate and carbon sequestration models may have underestimated the number of trees currently soaking up global carbon emissions. This count offers scientists a starting point to retool climate and sequestration models and possibly revise their expectations for how much carbon a tree can absorb.
"We need to start identifying patterns of trees and numbers of trees and sizes of trees before we can determine how much carbon is stored in ecosystems and understand carbon storage and recycling in current and future scenarios," he said.
The study offers no insight into the girth or wood density of trees -- data which would be necessary for scientists to understand how much carbon a single tree or patch of forest might sequester -- but the count does suggest that the impact of any single tree on carbon sequestration is much smaller than once thought when compared to the whole of the planet's forested land.
"The large jump in estimated numbers of trees is surprising," said Van Kane, a forest researcher at University of Washington. "Tree counts by themselves -- since they're so dominated by small trees, many of which won't survive -- do not tell us a whole lot about ecosystems, but we can look forward to pairing this information with our worldwide distribution of biomass, which is dominated by large trees, to try to get new views on the world's ecosystems." 
For that reason, this count raises the bar for any company or organization seeking to combat climate change with tree plantings. For years, campaigns such as MillionTreesNYC have busily recruited volunteers in cities across the U.S. to sequester carbon from the atmosphere by planting scores of trees. Experts have called such efforts a poor investment when compared with other reforestation projects, since New York City trees cost up to $3,500 to plant and maintain. Now, any such project will have to contend with a new figure that suggests it may take a lot more trees to put a dent in global carbon emissions than expected.
Crowther said the research also underscored the dramatic impact that people have on forests. Across all forest types, the greatest predictor of lower tree density was nearby human development. In particular, the scope of the project offers a sobering new perspective on deforestation. The researchers plugged their new count into estimates on annual forest loss to calculate that each year, people cut down over 15 billion trees. They said the total number of trees in the world has dropped by 46 percent since the beginning of human civilization.

"The more people you have, the more human activity you have -- the fewer trees you have," he said. "Everything we want is what forests want, and if we weren't there, forests would be there."
The study also exposed one surprising forestry trend that was previously obscured. The group found that tundra and boreal regions have the greatest tree densities of any region in the world -- even higher than the tropics. Glenn Juday, a forest ecologist at University of Alaska Fairbanks, said this may be because trees tend to be smaller at higher latitudes while trees in the tropics are very thick and take up more space.
"It makes sense from the standpoint that the low productivity in the boreal region means that the average size of trees at maturity is smaller, so as a result, more trees can fit within a given area," he said.
Tallying up the number of trees on Earth is no easy task: It requires steadfast resolve in the face of skepticism, an obsession with acquiring tree density data from obscure patches of the globe and even a clever strategy for accessing data withheld by the Russian and Chinese governments.
Crowther became obsessed with trying to count the Earth’s trees when he noticed mismatched guesses for global tree population in the field. Earlier estimates suggested there may be around 400 billion trees in the world. But when a group of ecologists and foresters surveyed the Amazon in 2013, they found 390 billion trees in that region alone.
Hans ter Steege, who led that Amazon estimate as a botanist at Naturalis Biodiversity Center in the Netherlands, said it's "a fascinating study." His team collected 1,170 data points for his analysis, which is less than one-half of 1 percent of the points included in the updated estimate. 
But when Crowther first proposed his idea for approximating the number of trees in the world while working as a postdoctoral fellow at Yale, his mentors were skeptical. They only bought into the project after he gathered hundreds of thousands of data points.
New research shows that the world is home to about 3 trillion trees, which is equal to 422 trees for every person.  Photo: Clara Rowe
To arrive at the estimate, Crowther and his collaborators analyzed 429,775 data points on tree density from forest plots in more than 50 countries on every continent except Antarctica. For some countries, such as the U.S. and European nations, this data was readily available through universities or forestry department websites, but institutions in Russia and China proved to be far more secretive.
"That level of data-sharing would be a very useful thing from a scientific perspective, given that Russia has more trees than any other country and twice as much as Canada, which is the next biggest," he said.
So Crowther and his team had to find scientists in those countries who were willing to share their tree density studies. Crowther also had to request data from a small section of tropical coniferous forest in Honduras that had never before been sampled. The team threw out any data that didn’t measure trees to their standard of more than 10 centimeters in diameter at chest height.
They sorted the remaining studies by region and elevation into categories such as boreal, desert and tropical grasslands. Based on these groupings, they found the expected tree density for each type of forest. Then they used images from satellites to estimate how many acres of each forest type existed on the planet. By combining the acreage with the tree density estimates, they calculated the approximate number of trees in the world.
"Pulling all this data together is a massive amount of work, and I congratulate them for it," Kane at University of Washington said. "Now we need to meld these tree counts with our estimates of biomass to see what we can tell about forests on smaller scales."
The key to their study was the team’s use of tree density measurements. This allowed them to fine-tune their estimate to a greater degree than previous guesses, which relied primarily on satellite images even though it's often hard to tell whether a forest plot has 50 or 100 trees when looking down at a sea of canopies from above.
In addition to the benefits for climate research and carbon sequestration efforts, Crowther added that the new estimate also sharpens an otherwise fuzzy area in the picture of the planet held by scientists and the general public.
"My opinion is that it's just valuable to have a fundamental understanding of the Earth," he said. "It's really nice to know a feature of the planet we live on."
As the world watches China’s economic slowdown and struggles to adjust to a new reality in global markets, automakers got another piece of bad news from the world’s biggest car market. A monthly survey that tracks car-buying sentiment in China shows fewer people are planning to make a car purchase over the next 12 months.“There was a pullback in the car-buying environment in August,” said a report released Tuesday from London-based MNI Indicators, a provider of global economic data that regularly polls Chinese consumer sentiment. The monthly report suggests the number of Chinese consumers planning to make a car purchase over the next year fell to 18.7 percent from nearly 21 percent, a significant drop that’s in line with the current downward trend in monthly Chinese new-auto sales, which dropped nearly 7 percent in July.
Consumers who are in the market to buy new cars in China are scaling back their budgets, too. Buyers who a year ago might have forked out more cash for an entry-level luxury BMW are downgrading to humbler choices. Most respondents to the recent poll say they’re budgeting about 120,000 yuan (roughly $19,000), considerably less than the average $32,000 American car buyers are spending.

Global automakers have been warning about China’s slowdown for more than a year. And last month, BMW said global manufacturers are shifting vehicle exports away from China into other emerging markets and the U.S., a car market that has yet to feel any measurable impact from China’s downturn. (A stronger dollar is encouraging foreign companies to export to the U.S. because of the foreign-exchange gains they make converting profits into their local currencies.)
As Chinese households cut back on car-buying budgets, domestic automakers appear to be reaping some gains, according to semi-annual reports released by some Chinese automakers.
Privately held Great Wall Motors, China’s largest domestic SUV manufacturer, said revenue increased 30 percent to 37.12 billion yuan ($4.9 billion) in the first half of the year over the same period in 2014, according to Gasgoo.com, which tracks the Chinese auto industry. Changan Automobile, a state-owned maker of affordable cars, which has partnerships with Ford Motor and PSA Peugeot Citroen, said revenue increased 37 percent to 33.05 billion yuan ($5.20 billion) in the same period.
The global stock market decline last week spooked investors but brought some good news for U.S. homebuyers. Home mortgage applications jumped over the course of the week, fueled by Treasury interest rates that dropped briefly along with the markets.
The number of applications amounted to an 11.3 percent seasonally adjusted increase for the week over the week prior, the Mortgage Bankers Association announced Wednesday. That increase puts mortgage application totals 30 percent higher than last year.
"Although mortgage rates were unchanged for the week, Treasury rates were down sharply early in the week due to the global stock market rout, and this led to a significant increase in application volume," Mike Fratantoni, chief economist for the trade association, told CNBC.
On August 24, U.S. 10-year Treasury rates dipped down to 2.01 percent yield from six days earlier when the rates were 2.2 percent.
The decline also made room for current homeowners to refinance, and the number of mortgage-holders looking to refinance jumped by 17 percent last week. Loan applications to purchase a home were up by 4 percent, marking a 25 percent increase from the year before.
"The average size of a refinance application increased to its highest level since January," Fratantoni said.
A large portion of the new borrower applications came from so-called jumbo loan borrowers, i.e. people looking for loans for costly homes. The cost of those homes can range from around a half-million to millions of dollars.
Meanwhile, trading in China, where the market unrest began, was tumultuous Wednesday as the country prepared itself for a four-day holiday weekend. The trading session left shares down slightly after two rallies throughout the day. The Shanghai Composite Index closed at 0.2 percent down.
After two weeks of shaky international markets, U.S. investors were still concerned Tuesday as Standard & Poor's 500-stock dropped 58.33 points, or 2.96 percent. Contract prices for oil, which can indicate future market activity, also continued to drop.
This story was updated at 4 p.m. EDT
U.S. stocks closed sharply higher Wednesday, with the Dow Jones Industrial Average soaring nearly 300 points, rebounding a day after Wall Street recorded its worst start to September in 13 years. Investors sifted through a series of economic reports that showed U.S. productivity bounced back this spring to its strongest pace in more than a year. Meanwhile, private sector job creation slightly missed expectations in August.
Stocks continued to rally higher in afternoon trading after a report showed economic activity continued to expand across most U.S. regions and sectors during July to mid-August, the U.S. Federal Reserve said Wednesday. Economists got a glimpse into the health of the overall economy after the central bank released its Beige Book, which provides a snapshot of economic conditions in the central bank's 12 districts. 
The Dow Jones Industrial Average (INDEXDJX:.DJI) gained 293 points, or 1.8 percent, to close at 16,352. The Standard & Poor's 500 index (INDEXSP:.INX) rose 35 points, or 1.8 percent, to end at 1,949. And the Nasdaq composite (INDEXNASDAQ:.IXIC) added 114 points, or 2.5 percent, to finish at 4,750.
Nine of the 10 S&P 500 sectors closed higher, led by gains in information technology stocks. The biggest laggard was utilities, down 0.5 percent.
Technology also led the Dow higher, with iPhone maker Apple Inc. (NASDAQ:AAPL) adding more than 3 percent.
Energy stocks closed higher after falling more than 1 percent in morning trading after U.S. oil prices briefly fell below $45 a barrel.
Oil prices dropped Wednesday morning after data showed stockpiles increased more than expected last week. U.S. commercial crude inventories rose by 4.7 million barrels in the previous week, compared with analysts' expectations for a buildup of just 32,000 barrels, the Energy Information Administration said Wednesday.
However, U.S. crude turned positive in afternoon trading, closing up above $46 a barrel. West Texas Intermediate crude, the benchmark for U.S. oil prices, rose 2 percent to $46.25 per barrel for October delivery on the New York Mercantile Exchange. On the London ICE Futures Exchange, Brent crude, the global benchmark for oil prices, rose 2 percent to $51.
U.S. productivity, or the output of goods and services per hour worked, advanced at its strongest pace in the April-June quarter since the fourth quarter of 2013. The productivity of nonfarm workers rose at a 3.3 percent seasonally adjusted annual rate in the second quarter, the Labor Department said Wednesday.
Separately, U.S. private sector employment rose by 190,000 jobs in August, below analysts’ expectations of 201,000 new positions, the ADP employment report showed Wednesday. However, the number was higher than July's downward-revised 177,000 jobs.
The economic indicator is widely used as a pre-indicator for the U.S. labor market ahead of Friday's highly anticipated jobs report.
Asia saw another volatile trading session Wednesday, with China’s benchmark Shanghai Composite closing down 0.4 percent, after falling as much as 4.6 percent. Japan's Nikkei 225 index pared gains to close flat, down 0.4 percent.
Meanwhile, European markets traded mostly flat, with the pan-European STOXX 600 up 0.3 percent in afternoon trading, while London's FTSE 100 rose 0.5 percent. Germany's DAX and France's CAC added 0.3 percent and 0.4 percent, respectively.
Wall Street bounced back after ending in correction territory a day earlier. All three major indexes closed down nearly 3 percent in their third-largest daily loss in 2015.
China will lend Venezuela’s government $5 billion to help the South American country produce more oil. Venezuela is seeking to ramp up production in coming months to offset steep losses caused by falling prices for crude, the nation’s main export, according to media reports.
Venezuela’s President Nicolas Maduro announced the deal Tuesday in a speech in China that was broadcast on Venezuelan state television, the Associated Press reported. Maduro did not provide details about the loan agreement.
Oil prices are down around 60 percent since their peak in 2014, largely because of a surge in global oil production and waning demand in China. Brent crude, the global benchmark, was trading at $49.06 a barrel Wednesday morning, when the U.S. benchmark was trading at $44.68 a barrel.
The Maduro government has estimated it needs oil prices at more than $100 a barrel to break even on its budget. Venezuela relies on crude sales for roughly 96 percent of its export revenue, and more than one-half the country’s gross domestic product.
The Chinese loan may give some support to bond markets, where Venezuela’s debt securities are rated among the riskiest worldwide, AP reported. The latest support by Beijing will be provided in addition to a separate $5 billion loan to Caracas, which the Maduro government secured in April to stimulate the country’s recession-stricken economy. All told, China has lent Venezuela more than $50 billion since 2005, making it the nation’s largest creditor in recent years.
Maduro is among the leaders of 30 countries in China this week to celebrate the defeat of invading Japanese forces 70 years ago. The Venezuelan president is expected to meet with Russian President Vladimir Putin Thursday to discuss ways to stabilize oil prices, a Kremlin aide said this week. Russia has also been slammed by lower oil prices, as crude and natural gas account for one-half of its federal budget revenue.
Australia’s economy reported its slowest growth rate in over two years with gross domestic product growing only 0.2 percent in the second quarter, according to figures released by the Australian Bureau of Statistics Wednesday. A slowdown in mining and construction coupled with lower exports contributed to the low growth for the period covering three months ending in June.
The statistics bureau reported that mining production was down by three percent this quarter, contributing to the drop in exports. Mining-related construction was also down. Overall mining production for the export rich nation was still positive for the year at 2.1 percent.
News of the economy’s performance drove the Australian dollar down below U.S. $0.70 for the first time in six years before making a slight recovery, according to ABC News Australia. The figures were worse than expected by experts after Australia experienced 0.9 percent growth in the last quarter.
Australian media reported that, along with a weak first quarter in 2013, this was the worst growth experienced since 2011 when the country was still recovering from the economic crisis of 2008 and was hit by flooding in Queensland. Experts now fear that Australia could face a recession.
The Wall Street Journal reported that before the data was released, Australian businesses were already planning to cut back on spending plans. Several economists told the Wall Street Journal that it was possible that Australia’s central bank would again cut interest rates.
“Australia’s growth slowdown could bring rate cuts back on the agenda,” said Daniel Martin, a senior economist at Capital Economics in Singapore, in an interview with the Wall Street Journal.
The health, transport and finance industries contributed 0.1 percentage points each to the growth in GDP, according to the Australian Bureau of Statistics. The Bureau noted that the domestic demand from household and government consumption were among the positive contributions to GDP growth.
A group led by MBK Partners Ltd., North Asia’s biggest independent buyout firm, is trying to close a deal to buy Tesco Plc’s business in South Korea for about $6 billion, including debt. The acquisition, if completed, would be the country’s biggest private equity deal, Bloomberg reported, citing people familiar with the matter.
The group, which includes South Korea’s National Pension Service, got exclusive negotiating rights Wednesday to take over Tesco’s Homeplus business. If the deal goes through, it would give the MBK-led group a retail chain that stands second only to market leader E-Mart of the family-run Shinsegae Group Co., through more than 900 stores and over $7 billion in annual revenue.
The deal would also allow U.K.'s Tesco to pay off its massive debt of 21.7 billion pounds ($33.2 billion). The Bloomberg report added that Tesco is also looking at options to sell its analytics business, Dunnhumby.
MBK’s consortium reportedly beat a rival consortium led by New York private equity firm KKR & Co. The South Korean business is considered Tesco’s “crown jewel” in Asia, Bloomberg reported, citing estimates from Credit Suisse Group AG.
The business has a valuation of 4 billion pounds, more than the 1.6 billion-pound valuation of Dunnhumby, a U.K customer science company owned by Tesco. However, Homeplus posted a net loss of 300.1 billion won ($255 million) for the year ending February 28, down from last year’s profits of 463 billion won. Revenues for the company also reportedly shrank to 8.6 trillion won, down 4 percent, due to weak household spending. Homeplus reportedly had a market share of 25 percent, behind E-Mart's 29 percent.
Tesco posted a loss of 6.4 billion pounds ($9.56 billion) in April, the biggest-ever in its 96-year history. The Bloomberg report added that the company’s chief executive Dave Lewis is trying to revive sales for the company’s market-leading grocery business, which is facing a severe price war due to the expansion of German discount retailers Aldi and Lidl.
The retailer entered South Korea in 1999 through a joint venture with Samsung Group in which Tesco held an 81 percent stake initially, Bloomberg reported. It came in with an investment of 130 million pounds and slowly bought out Samsung’s stake.
Tesco's shares have fallen close to 20 percent in the past one year while London's benchmark FTSE 100 Index has seen a decline of nearly 11 percent in the same period. On Wednesday, the stock was up 0.11 percent in mid-morning trade.
SHANGHAI -- Following Tuesday’s falls on world stock markets, markets in China and Japan again fell Wednesday, as weak manufacturing figures from both China and the U.S. continued to depress investor sentiment. In a volatile day’s trading, several other Asian markets also fell -- though Australia and South Korea bucked the trend.
In China the main Shanghai Composite Index fell more than 4 percent on opening. It later recovered into positive territory, led by banking stocks, but fell back to close 0.2 percent down at 3,160. The secondary Shenzhen Composite Index dropped 2 percent, while the Nasdaq-like ChiNext index for high-tech shares closed 1.8 percent lower, adding to its fall of more than 5 percent Tuesday.
The continuing drop in Chinese share prices came in spite of reports that the government had persuaded some of the country’s biggest brokerages to contribute a further 100 billion yuan (about $15 billion) to a fund that will invest in blue-chip stocks in an attempt to stabilize the market.
Analysts said investors were still concerned about Tuesday’s manufacturing data, which saw the official Purchasing Managers’ Index (PMI), a measure of factory output, fall to 49.7 -- its lowest level in three years -- and also about data from the U.S., which showed factory activity at its lowest point for two years.
Japan’s Nikkei 225 Index also fell, after rising earlier in the day on bargain hunting following a decline of almost 4 percent Tuesday. Concerns about both China’s growth and U.S. interest rate hikes saw it close 0.4 percent lower at 18,095. Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index also fell again, ending the day down 1.2 percent.
The only major markets that saw stocks move into positive territory were Australia, where the ASX200 closed 0.1 percent higher; South Korea, where the Kospi Index finished fractionally higher; and Singapore, where the Straits Times Index was up 0.04 percent in mid-afternoon trading.
China on Wednesday again unveiled measures aimed at boosting its economy, as falling export demand and other factors fuel predictions that its GDP growth could fall well below its target of about 7 percent in the third quarter. State media said Wednesday that the government would set up a national fund worth more than $9 billion, to help small and micro-businesses.
The authorities have also lowered the threshold on the capital requirement for some fixed-asset investment projects -- including the construction of airports, railways, subways, highways and ports -- in an attempt to stimulate construction. The move follows reports that China's fixed-asset investment growth slipped sharply in July to 11.2 percent -- its lowest rate in a decade, and significantly lower than the government's 15 percent target for the year.
State media also said that 50 of the country’s biggest brokerages would each contribute 20 percent of their assets to the market stabilization fund, following speculation that the authorities were rolling back efforts to stop the market from falling too far. Over 20 major brokerages previously contributed more than $19 billion to the fund in early July; however their efforts at that time appeared to have only a short-term effect, as the Chinese stock market is currently more than 10 percent down on its early July low point -- though it still remains 50 percent higher than it was before it began a dramatic bull-run a year ago. 
Update as of 7:35 a.m. EDT: European stocks were unable to keep the momentum going Wednesday after opening at significantly higher levels in the morning, though the stocks managed to stay in positive territory. The FTSE-100 was trading up 0.18 percent, while Germany's DAX was up 0.13 percent and France's CAC-40 was up 0.17 percent.
Update as of 6:05 a.m. EDT: Stocks on European indexes had given up most of their gains made in early morning trades. The FTSE-100 was up 0.38 percent, while Germany's DAX and France's CAC-40 were flat.
Original story:
Stocks across major indexes in Europe opened in positive territory Wednesday even as trading across Asian markets was marked with volatility.
The FTSE-100 was up 0.75 percent in morning trade on the London Stock Exchange while Germany’s DAX exchange was up about 0.73 percent, and France’s CAC-40 was up 0.58 percent. As the morning wore on, the DAX had extended gains to 0.8 percent while the CAC-40 was up 0.75 percent. However, the FTSE-100 had lost all its gains and was trading down 0.24 percent at 4:05 a.m. EDT.
While world markets have been concerned about a slowdown in China and its factories, data showed manufacturing growth slowed in the eurozone as well in August, further muddling the European Central Bank’s efforts to stimulate the region’s economy.
"Sterling's appreciation and the continued sluggishness of the eurozone economy's recovery suggest that a sustained revival in the export-orientated manufacturing sector will remain a distant prospect," said Samuel Tombs at Capital Economics, according to Reuters.
However, Eurostat numbers released Tuesday showed unemployment in the eurozone falling to a three-year low. For sure, the drop in joblessness across the region has been uneven with Germany clocking a record low rate of 4.7 percent while one in four people were unemployed in Greece.
In Asia, on Wednesday, markets in China and Japan continued to witness volatile trading. In India, the benchmark S&P BSE Sensex also displayed volatility, opening the day up about 0.5 percent and later falling by 0.43 percent in early afternoon trade.
SHANGHAI -- Following Tuesday’s falls on world stock markets, volatility continued on Asian markets Wednesday, as worries about China’s latest manufacturing figures and a possible U.S. interest rate rise continued to affect investor sentiment.
China's markets opened sharply down, before rebounding in late morning trading. Other Asian markets also fell, though Tokyo’s Nikkei bucked the trend, rising for the first time in three days in morning trades.
In China the main Shanghai Composite Index fell more than 4 percent on opening, before rebounding to finish the morning up 0.3 percent. The secondary Shenzhen Composite Index also fell sharply, before rebounding to trade more than 0.6 percent higher by lunchtime, while Shenzhen’s Nasdaq-like ChiNext index for high-tech shares also fell, before rising to close the morning almost 2 percent up -- following a fall of more than 5 percent Tuesday.
Hong Kong’s Hang Seng index was down 0.8 percent by late morning. In Australia the ASX200 was 1.2 percent lower, while South Korea’s Kospi Index fell 0.5 percent.
Japan’s Nikkei rose, however, after falling for the previous two days on concerns about China’s markets and U.S. interest rate hikes. Analysts said bargain hunting, influenced partly by a Goldman Sachs analyst's suggestion that shares were now undervalued, was behind the rise. By lunchtime local time the Nikkei was 0.8 percent higher at 18,219. Singapore’s Straits Times Index was also up, by 0.1 percent in mid-morning.
The Chinese market's rebound came after reports that the government was mobilizing the country’s biggest brokerages to contribute up to 100 billion yuan (around $15 billion) to a fund that will invest in shares, in an attempt to stabilize the market. The South China Morning Post said 50 of the country’s major brokerages would each contribute 20 percent of their assets to the fund.
More than 20 major brokerages contributed a similar amount in early July in an attempt to prop up the falling stock marker. However their efforts at that time appear to have had only a short-term effect, as the Chinese stock market is currently a further 10 percent down on its early July low point -- though it still remains 50 percent higher than it was before it began a dramatic bull-run a year ago.
By Jonathan Cable
LONDON (Reuters) -- China's giant manufacturing industry contracted and euro zone and U.S. growth eased in August in data published on Tuesday, while the International Monetary Fund cut its forecast for world growth this year.
Stocks on major markets tumbled along with commodity prices following the data, with markets still trying to gauge the likelihood of a September interest rate hike by the Federal Reserve.
"It's all consistent with a global economy which clearly is struggling to make any significant headway," said economist Peter Dixon at Commerzbank.
"As a consequence central banks which are thinking about raising interest rates in the near future will be looking at these numbers and it will maybe give them a little pause for thought."
Global factory activity expanded at its weakest pace since July 2013 in August, with JPMorgan's Global Manufacturing Purchasing Managers' Index, produced with Markit, sinking to 50.7 from 51.0 in July.
August was the 33rd straight month the index has been above the 50 level that separates growth from contraction. The global PMI indicator combines survey data from countries including the United States, Japan, Germany, France, Britain, China and Russia.
"The August PMI surveys suggest that conditions in the global manufacturing sector remain relatively lacklustre, with growth staying stubbornly below its long-run trend," said David Hensley, a director at JPMorgan.
Global economic growth is likely to be weaker than earlier expected, the head of the IMF said on Tuesday, due to a slower recovery in advanced economies and a further slowdown in emerging nations.
CHINA MANUFACTURING CONTRACTS AGAIN
Activity in China's manufacturing sector contracted at its fastest pace in three years in August, according to official data, reinforcing fears of a sharper slowdown in the world's second-largest economy despite a flurry of government support measures.
The Chinese government's PMI fell to 49.7 in August from the previous month's reading of 50.0, in line with expectations of analysts polled by Reuters..
A private survey from Markit/Caixin showed China's factory sector shrank at its fastest pace in almost 6-1/2 years last month, with the PMI dropping to 47.3, the lowest since March 2009, from July's 47.8.
Even China's services sector, which has been one of the few bright spots in the sputteringeconomy, showed signs of cooling, expanding at its slowest pace in more than a year, Markit said.
"Today's reading suggests that manufacturing activities in China remain weak. We now expect GDP to grow by an annual 6.4 percent in the third quarter," ANZ bank economists said.
Indian manufacturing growth slowed, with the Nikkei India manufacturing PMI compiled by Markit at 52.3 from July's 52.7.
Japanese data went against the trend, with manufacturing growth the strongest in seven months, reinforcing expectations the economy will rebound from a second-quarter contraction.
In a sign of slowing global demand, exports from South Korea dropped nearly 15 percent in August from a year earlier, with shipments to China, the United States and Europe all weaker, a trend HSBC's Frederic Neumann called worrisome for the global trade cycle.
"The country, after all, has long been a reliable bellwether. Korea's PMI is still negative, and new export orders again contracted, even if at a less rapid pace than before," Neumann, co-head of Asian economics research, said.
ECB TO EXTEND ASSET BUYING?
Euro zone manufacturing growth eased in August, adding to the ECB's woes as it battles to spur expansion and inflation with an asset purchase program.
Markit's final manufacturing PMI for the euro zone was 52.3 last month, down from 52.43 in July, though it has been above the 50 mark for over two years.
The disappointing readings come almost half a year after the ECB began pumping 60 billion euros a month of fresh cash into the economy and a day after official data showed inflation in the 19-country bloc at just 0.2 percent.
In one bright spot, euro zone unemployment unexpectedly fell to its lowest level in more than three years in July, official data showed.
However, a two-year spell of jobs growth across British factories came to an end last month as manufacturing activity expanded at a slower pace, suggesting the sector is unlikely to boost economic growth much there this quarter.
"Sterling's appreciation and the continued sluggishness of the euro zone economy's recovery suggest that a sustained revival in the export-orientated manufacturing sector will remain a distant prospect," said Samuel Tombs at Capital Economics.
U.S. GROWTH SLOWS, CANADA CONTRACTS
Growth in the U.S. manufacturing sector slowed to its weakest in almost two years in August, with the Markit PMI falling to 53.0 in August, down from 53.8 in July.
"August’s survey highlights that the U.S. manufacturing sector continues to struggle under the weight of the strong dollar and heightened global economic uncertainty, but resilient domestic spending and subdued cost pressures are keeping the recovery on track," said Tim Moore, senior economist at Markit.
"Reflecting this, new orders from abroad have now fallen in four of the past five months, which represents the weakest phase of manufacturing export performance since late 2012."
A reading from the U.S. Institute of Supply Management (ISM) also showed U.S. factory activity growth slowing in August, with its PMI at 51.1 from 52.7.
Canada's factory activity contracted in August, with the Markit/RBC PMI falling to a 49.4 from 50.8 in July.
In other data on Tuesday, Canada's economy shrank at an annualized 0.5 percent rate in the second quarter, putting the country in recession for the first time since the 2008 financial crisis with cheaper oil prices taking a toll.
Brazil's Markit/HSBC PMI fell further in August to 45.8 from 47.2 in July. Brazil's economyshrank 1.9 percent in the second quarter from the previous three months, government data showed on Friday.
(Additional reporting by Winni Zhou in Beijing and Sam Forgione in New York; Editing byClive McKeef and Meredith Mazzilli)
A California woman has sued Chipotle Mexican Grill, alleging false advertising, Reuters reported Tuesday. The woman claimed that although Chipotle announced in late April that it is the only national restaurant to use only ingredients free from genetically modified organisms, the restaurant is actually not free of them.
Colleen Gallagher filed a class-action lawsuit on Friday in a federal court in San Francisco, claiming Chipotle violated the federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act with false and misleading food labeling, and that it tricked customers into forking over more cash for their food.
"As Chipotle told consumers it was 'G-M-Over it,' the opposite was true," said Gallagher, Reuters reported. "In fact, Chipotle's menu has never been at any time free of GMOs."   
The lawsuit also said the company’s public statements about its fresh food did not match up with reality. 
“Chipotle has carefully tailored its public image by marketing to healthy-lifestyle and environmentally conscious consumers that it knows are willing to pay premium prices for its food,” the lawsuit stated, RT reported.
In late April, Chipotle claimed it was the first national restaurant company to use GMO-free ingredients. Chipotle’s website, though, has disclaimers about certain GMO content in some of its food. The disclaimers inform customers that most animal feed in the U.S. is genetically modified, so the meat and dairy served by Chipotle most likely comes from animals that have consumed GMOs. The disclaimers also state that many of the Mexican grill’s beverages contain GMOs.
The lawsuit is "meritless" and "filled with inaccuracies,” said Chris Arnold, Chipotle’s communications director, in an e-mail to Fortune. “Chipotle has always been honest and transparent with its customers, and the messaging surrounding our use of non-GMO ingredients is no exception.” Arnold also said that while the meat Chipotle serves is from animals fed GMO grains, “that does not mean that our meat is GMO, any more than people would be genetically modified if they ate GMO grains.”  
Gallagher also filed a lawsuit in 2014, alleging that Bayer AG's One A Day multivitamins misled consumers as to the vitamin’s health benefits. A judge denied Bayer’s motion to dismiss the lawsuit on Aug. 18.
McDonald’s will begin serving breakfast all day across the United States beginning in early October, the Wall Street Journal reported. Franchisees voted last week in favor of the sweeping change, and the move was affirmed Tuesday by a franchise leadership council.
Customers will be able to purchase breakfast items all day at the 14,300 McDonald’s locations beginning Oct. 6. In the past, customers were cut off from Egg McMuffins and Sausage McGriddles at 10:30 a.m., and for years have requested an all-day breakfast menu be offered. Amid slumping sales, McDonald’s has finally decided to take the leap, which McDonald’s U.S. President Mike Andres said is the biggest strategic move since 2009 when the fast-food chain introduced its McCafe line featuring coffee and espresso drinks.
Andres said this “is the consumers’ idea. This is what they want us to do,” the Wall Street Journal reported. “That’s why I think this could be the catalyst for our turnaround.”
 
Now, have your @McDonalds a.m. snack in the:&#10;-Morning&#10;-Noon&#10;-Night&#10;&#10;YAY FOR ALL-DAY BREAKFAST! http://t.co/X204IGh7qR pic.twitter.com/4CQMDQDiyp
&mdash; RedEye Chicago (@redeyechicago) September 1, 2015
 
 
Each restaurant will have to add or change equipment and processes, such as adding new grills and toasters, to implement the change. The total investment for each McDonald’s restaurant could range from $500 to $5,000, and is largely dependent on what equipment each franchise already has. To simplify the all-day breakfast switch, McDonald’s will offer only a few core breakfast items, including sausage burritos, hot cakes and, depending on the region, Egg McMuffins and biscuit sandwiches.
The massive change could help stem McDonald’s sluggish sales, which began drooping three years ago. In July’s quarterly earnings report, McDonald’s reported same-store sales below analyst estimates, CNBC reported. The new, all-day breakfast initiative is the latest one of CEO Steve Easterbrook’s attempts to boost flagging sales. In the earnings report, Easterbrook said he is trying to modernize the company.
Growth for American factories hit its lowest level since May 2013, according to a report issued on Tuesday by the Institute for Supply Management (ISM), a trade group focused on supply management. The report said that the purchasing managers’ index, which reflects manufacturing, slid to 51.1 percent in August from 52.7 percent in July.
The numbers run counter to the improvement that economists had been expecting in August, according to the Associated Press. China’s economic slowdown, declining crude oil prices and a strong U.S. dollar have all contributed to the slower pace of American manufacturing growth. In addition, the strong U.S. dollar has made American goods more expensive on international markets.
The six industries that reported contractions were apparel, leather and allied products; primary metals; electrical equipment, appliances and components; petroleum and coal products; computer and electronic products; and transportation equipment, according to the report. Ten of 18 manufacturing industries reported growth in August, according to the report.
The report also said that growth of raw material inventories decreased by one percentage point from July to 48.5 percent for August. The prices for raw materials dropped for the 10th month in a row.
Bradley Holcomb, chairman of ISM’s manufacturing survey committee, told the AP that global market fluctuations impact American manufacturing. “China, in the same fashion, does impact us both emotionally and directly,” he said.
The impact of China’s economic uncertainty could hit American manufacturing into next year, experts said. In an interview with MarketWatch, economist Joshua Shapiro noted that the August results raise a warning flag about real economic growth, "particularly should the weakness be sustained in September.” 
Overall, the American economy grew for the 75th month in a row, according to the report. U.S. unemployment stands at 5.3 percent, a seven-year low. The AP reported that the U.S. Commerce Department said the American economy grew 3.7 percent from April to June.
 
The news just keeps getting worse for the magazine industry. According to MagNet, which tracks magazine sales in the U.S. and Canada, newsstand magazine sales declined nearly 14 percent in the first half of 2015, continuing a yearslong slump. Unit sales are expected to generate $2.5 billion this year, about half of what they made in 2007, the year Apple Inc. released its first iPhone.
“The newsstand channel is fragile,” a report accompanying the numbers read. “The dollar sales decline that we have been experiencing in magazine sales at newsstand over the last eight years appears to be accelerating.”
Last year, the magazine industry was dealt a grave blow when Source Interlink, the largest distributor in the country, filed for bankruptcy. That disappearance is plainly visible in the statistics released Tuesday. Forty million fewer copies were distributed to newsstands in the first half of this year compared to last. Despite that relative scarcity, unit sales efficiencies, a number which reflects sales health, plunged to the lowest number MagNet has ever recorded, 26.8 percent. 
Retail sales declined in all but four categories: Social and literary magazines, a relatively niche category, leapt nearly 24 percent, games and puzzles increased 5 percent, outdoors ticked up 6 percent and lifestyle, which essentially held flat, inched up 0.7 percent. Nearly every other category experienced a double-digit decline, with teen- and children-focused magazines (down 30 percent), crafts (down 25 percent) and automotive (down 24 percent) experiencing the biggest drops. 
Because actually finding a magazine to purchase has become increasingly difficult, publishers are now more reliant on retailers like Albertson's, Target and Walmart for their sales. While those sales also declined through the first half of 2015, they now represent more than half of all newsstand revenue in the United States and Canada. 
Newsstand sales of magazines have been in decline for the past eight years, as more people access information and content on mobile devices. Eight years after the launch of the iPhone, the first consumer-facing smartphone, the overwhelming majority of Americans own cell phones, and nearly two-thirds of them own smartphones, according to the Pew Research Center. In its previous report, which charted first-quarter newsstand sales, MagNet acknowledged that the ubiquity of smartphones and other Internet-connected mobile devices had effectively changed the media consumption habits of its customer base. 
Magazine retailers are now deeply reliant on chains like Target and Albertson's for their newsstand sales.  Photo: MagNet
Typically, when trade groups release reports filled with sales statistics, the report authors focus almost exclusively on the positives, sometimes contorting themselves into peculiar shapes to highlight the reasons for optimism. Six months into 2015, it appears the magazine industry’s print sector has run out of twists.
“Over the last eight years of sales declines, MagNet has always attempted to find and highlight positives trends within the overall negative outlook,” the report’s final paragraph reads. “There are still some publishers who are having sales increases, and others who are faring better than the overall industry, either by increasing their title mix and cover prices or focusing on higher-priced specials.
“We applaud them for their creativity and success, and for their continual focus on newsstand.”
The volatility in global markets that began after China’s Aug. 11 surprise devaluation of the yuan had virtually no impact on U.S. new auto sales last month. Americans bought more new cars, pickup trucks and SUVs than expected in August, pushing a key monthly measurement to its highest level in since 2005, manufacturers’ sales data released Tuesday showed.
“Trends are largely consistent with the first part of 2015 despite global economic concerns at the end of the month,” said Stephanie Brinley, senior analyst, IHS Automotive. “So far, consumer confidence appears to remain strong and fundamentals are holding for a solid 2015.”
Though Honda, Toyota, Nissan and General Motors reported lower sales compared to August 2014, the dips were expected because of the timing of the upcoming Labor Day weekend sales event, which was counted in August 2014 but will be credited to September this year. Some forecasts expected as much as a 4 percent drop in total U.S. new-auto sales, but instead the drop was about 1 percent, to nearly 1.6 million vehicles.

The seasonally adjusted annualized rate (SAAR) -- a running 12-month sales estimate used to measure consumer confidence and the health of the auto industry – hit 17.5 million, well above the 17.3 million estimate of analysts polled by Thomson Reuters and the highest monthly SAAR since July 2005. This puts the U.S. auto market in line to top 17 million annual cars sales this year, for the first time since 2001.
"All of the economic fundamentals that we look at, including job growth, disposable income and fuel prices, are in good shape and that should keep sales strong," said Kurt McNeil, head of U.S. sales for General Motors.
Among the world’s largest automakers, which include Hyundai/Kia and Volkswagen Group, Ford Motor and Fiat Chrysler Automobiles (FCA) posted strong gains on demand for Ford’s pickup trucks and recently introduced SUVs and FCA’s Jeep brand, which has been on a roll for most of the past year.
Toyota and Honda saw significant drops on lower demand for their core sedans though the declines were lower than expected. Smaller players like Jaguar Land Rover and Volvo Cars saw double-digit gains on their fresh SUV and crossover offerings.
Since the end of a 27-year civil war in 2002, billions of dollars in oil revenues and associated Chinese loans have bankrolled an immense physical transformation in Angola in the form of new roads, bridges, airports, hospitals and schools. Farms laced with land mines were cleared for planting, and urban slums were rebuilt into shiny, modern cities in the former Portuguese colony. In 2012, Angola’s booming economy grew by up to 12 percent, and the southern African country secured contracts with China worth $7.6 billion.
But Angola’s oil-dependent economy, with crude accounting for almost all of its exports and more than two-thirds of government revenues, could now be on a downward spiral after months of declining oil prices. Angola’s gross domestic product grew just 4.5 percent in 2014 and slowed further to 3.8 percent in 2015. Economic growth was forecast earlier this year to improve in 2016, but a potential economic slowdown in China, Angola’s top customer, could set back the petro state even further and threaten much needed infrastructure projects, analysts and experts said.
“We were expecting back then for Angola’s economy to improve, but now the situation in China is a strong question mark on this. The economy may not even reach the 4.2 percent we’ve forecasted in 2016,” said Arthur Minsat, an economist specializing in Africa, Europe and the Middle East at the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) in Paris. “Angola’s economy is the most exposed to trade with China.”
A view of the developing skyline of Angola's capital city, Luanda, on May 15, 2015. Photo: Reuters/Herculano Coroado
Asian stock markets fell further Tuesday morning against a backdrop of panic in recent weeks over the health of China’s economy, along with concerns about a possible U.S. interest rate increase. The primary Shanghai Composite Index shed more than 4 percent in early trading, before clawing back to close just over 1.2 percent lower, at 3,166. The secondary Shenzhen Composite Index, however, fell sharply, losing 4.6 percent. Hong Kong's Hang Seng Index also fell, by 2.2 percent, while Singapore’s Straits Times Index was down 1.3 percent. At the same time, crude prices fell 6 percent Tuesday amid a global oil glut. Prices have slumped this year from more than $100 to $50 a barrel while U.S. shale oil production has surged, creating an oversupply.
China’s Premier Li Keqiang has said that his country’s economy is growing within an “appropriate” range. But China’s devalued yuan has already hit commodity-linked African currencies, including the Angolan kwanza, which reached an all-time low against the U.S. dollar in August during a dip in oil prices.
China imports about half of Angola’s oil output. While Beijing won’t stop buying Angolan oil, it will likely import at a lower rate, which would hurt Angolans already suffering from falling oil prices, experts said.
“Angolans are facing tough times. The one thing you sell, demand is going down for,” said Anna Rosenberg, practice leader for sub-Saharan Africa at Frontier Strategy Group, a Washington, D.C., firm that advises companies on emerging markets.
A woman cooks in a courtyard on July 3, 2015, in Luanda, Angola. Photo: ALAIN JOCARD/AFP/Getty Images
China-Angola relations go beyond developing the oil sector. Chinese investment has developed Angola’s infrastructure and has attracted Asian businesses to open up shop. Chinese loans funded the construction of a $3.5 billion sprawling development some 18 miles outside Luanda, Angola's capital, with 750 eight-story apartment buildings, a dozen schools and more than 100 retail units in 2012, according to BBC News.
“There is a strong cooperation between Angola and China,” Minsat said in a telephone interview Tuesday. “China is helping a lot to build infrastructure that the country really needs.”
Since Beijing formally established diplomatic relations with Luanda in 1983, China has provided oil-backed infrastructure loans to Angola at a lower cost and with a longer time frame than Western nations, and without having to meet demands for political transparency and reform. China holds almost 41 percent of Angola’s external debt, analysts said.
While Chinese loans are cheaper than Western ones, Beijing often requires Luanda to spend the loans in China or with Chinese firms. For instance, contracts from the Export-Import Bank of China require that 70 percent of projects be awarded to Chinese companies and that 50 percent of procurement materials come from China, according to research published by Stanford University in California. Thus, Chinese aid has had little impact on job creation in Angola, where 26 percent of the population is unemployed and poverty affects 36.6 percent, according to the recent African Economic Outlook report, which was compiled by the African Development Bank, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development and the United Nations Development Program. 
A Chinese worker walks past a construction site in Lubango, Angola, on March 5, 2014, one month after Angolan President Jose Eduardo dos Santos signed multibillion-dollar loans with China, after the halving of oil prices left a gaping hole in the country's finances. Photo: REUTERS/Herculano Coroado
As oil revenues shrink, Angola has made steps in recent months to change its economic future. Apart from China, Angola receives investment from the United Kingdom, Brazil and the United States, and Angolan President Jose Eduardo dos Santos has pushed business reforms and economic diversification to wean the petro state off crude dependency. 
Angola invested about $600 million in the exploration of gold in northern Angola in 2014 to help diversify the economy of Africa’s second-biggest oil producer. In June, Dos Santos, who has ruled since 1979, visited his Chinese counterpart, Xi Jinping, in Beijing to sign economic agreements in financial, agriculture, education and energy sectors, Bloomberg reported.
While the immediate forecast remains bleak, some analysts said Angola’s long-term economic outlook is positive.
"Tough times are ahead for everyone right now, but I still feel very positive about Angola in the long term," Rosenberg said. "The country is really facing a new normal."
The boxy Nissan NV200, popularly nicknamed the "Taxi of Tomorrow," officially took over Tuesday as New York City's cab of choice. The vast majority of drivers looking to replace their old vehicles are now required by law to switch to the minivan taxi, a decided departure from the more traditional sedans.
The vehicle is packed with features providing convenience and comfort, reported Gizmodo. It features USB charging stations for cell phones, a sunroof and extended leg room to make the travel experience more pleasant for riders. Drivers get more comfortable seats, GPS navigation and an intercom system as upgrades. The car also features sliding doors and rear-seat air bags for improved safety. And, in a city that often sounds like an orchestra of honks, New York's new cabs will boast a "low annoyance" horn.
It was a rocky road to this point for the Nissan NV200. A taxi group and the city government argued over whether New York was allowed to mandate a single cab, a case that the city won in June. New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio had opposed the plan originally put forth by former Mayor Michael Bloomberg, but de Blasio came around and renegotiated the deal instead of canceling it.
The interior of the Nissan NV200 taxi van is shown during it's unveiling ahead of the 2012 International Auto Show in New York, April 3, 2012. Photo: Reuters
The NV2oo runs entirely on gas, but some drivers will still be able to choose from a short list of hybrids and wheelchair-accessible vehicles instead of the Nissan model. Drivers can also opt to purchase a wheelchair-accessible NV200, but it has proven unpopular. Nissan is also developing an electric version of the NV200, but it is unclear if and when it will become part of the "Taxi of Tomorrow" plan.
Still, some 80 percent of New York City's taxi fleet could eventually be "Taxis of Tomorrow," reported the New York Times. Some drivers have already implemented the change. There are about 750 NV200s on the roads already, just a small portion of the city's approximately 13,000 cabs. More should be on the way soon. In a typical year, about 2,500 to 3,000 taxi drivers change their vehicles,  the Times reported.
The switch to a new vehicle also comes at a time when ride-sharing services such as Uber and Lyft are providing competition to the city's yellow cabs.
Billionaire hedge fund manager David Einhorn announced Monday that his Greenlight Capital Inc. hedge fund has lost nearly 14 percent in 2015, marking the firm’s most difficult year since the financial crisis in 2008. The recent rout in global financial markets, which has sent all three major U.S. indexes into correction territory, has hit the firm much worse than the average hedge fund.
“We are disappointed about the recent results,” Greenlight said in a note to investors, according to the Wall Street Journal.
Einhorn, 46, founded Greenlight in 1996 and is widely known for betting against Lehman Brothers months before the latter collapsed in September 2008 -- at ­the height of the Great Recession.
Greenlight told investors Monday that it lost 5.3 percent in August and 13.8 percent for the year, the Wall Street Journal reported, citing people familiar with the matter. The hedge fund's losses came "primarily” from its investments in energy company Consol Energy Inc. (NYSE:CNX), chipmaker Micron Technology Inc. (NASDAQ:MU) and solar company SunEdison Inc. (NYSE:SUNE), the Journal said.
Heading into August, Greenlight was down 9 percent, and up 2.5 percent for the year at the end of July, the New York Times reported, citing research firm HFR.
Earlier this summer, Einhorn said his investment in SunEdison was “our only significant winner,” according to the Times, after the stock rallied from $24 a share to $29.91 during the April-June period. However, SunEdison took a massive dive last month, plunging 55 percent.
Adding to the firm’s losses, one of Greenlight’s biggest positions -- coal producer Consol Energy -- lost nearly 8 percent in August and dropped 55 percent for the year. Meanwhile, Micron Technology has lost around 53 percent since January.
Greenlight also has exposure to iPhone maker Apple Inc. (NASDAQ:AAPL) and auto giant General Motors Company (NYSE:GM). Shares of Apple have also seen declines this summer. The stock was down roughly 7 percent last month during the stock market rout.
Hungry college students everywhere, rejoice: Chipotle Mexican Grill will be offering delivery on 40 campuses starting this fall. The burrito company, which has developed a passionate following of millennials, announced Tuesday a partnership with the mobile app Tapingo, according to its news release.
The program will be an expanded version of the Chipotle delivery service already available at institutions like Arizona State University, the University of Southern California and Louisiana State University. New schools on the list include Columbia University in New York, University of California, Los Angeles, and the University of Utah. By spring, Chipotle said it hoped to deliver to more than 100 campuses.
"Chipotle has been popular with students going back to our very first restaurant near the University of Denver, and we are always looking for ways to better engage with them,” Mark Crumpacker, chief creative and development officer at Chipotle, said in the release. “Tapingo, which has been well received by students where its services are available, knows how to connect with these younger customers."
Just found out that chipotle is going to start a delivery service for the university of Arkansas this fall, my day has been made
&mdash; Brad Matthews (@BAMMatthews) September 1, 2015
Never got Chipotle at college because the line was too long, but now they deliver. RIP my wallet and health.
&mdash; Matthew Samuelson (@Cubbyx_LoL) July 20, 2015
Tapingo is a San Francisco-based startup that has raised an estimated $36 million since it formed in 2012, Business Insider reported. As of April, it offered services on about 85 campuses and completed more than 25,000 transactions daily.
Tapingo lets students order restaurant food or drinks for pickup and cut the line when they arrive at places like Starbucks, Taco Bell and Subway. It also offers delivery with an average wait time of 25 minutes, according to the release.
Chipotle delivery isn't a novel idea. The company offers burritos on demand through services like OrderUp and Postmates in several cities, USA Today reported. But the focus on college campuses is new.
Chipotle has a cult-like following among young people due to its reputation for using fresh ingredients for customizable meals. Nielsen recently named it millennials' favorite brand, and a Level Money survey found that it was their second most popular fast food merchant, beaten only by McDonald's. A June analysis from Neustar discovered that 16 percent of millennial college graduates said they had visited Chipotle one to five times in the past month.
See a full list of the campuses due to have Chipotle delivery this fall here.
The all-new sixth-generation 2015 Ford Mustang’s first-ever fully independent rear suspension is a hit among the need-for-speed tribe of U.S. car shoppers. Sales of Ford’s 50-year-old original pony car have sped past General Motors’ Chevrolet Camaro, according to sales data released Tuesday, indicating Ford’s success in creating a Mustang that appeals to buyers too young to be drawn by the vehicle’s roots.
This time last year, the Camaro was the top seller of the U.S. muscle car trinity, while Fiat Chrysler’s Dodge Challenger remains in third place in unit sales, as it was last year despite a 36 percent boost first in the eight months of the year.
Most automakers release monthly U.S. sales data on Tuesday, and forecasts expect a decline compared to August 2014 because of the timing of Labor Day weekend, one of the biggest new-auto sales events of the year.
“Mustang sales increased 70 percent compared with a year ago ... marking its best August performance since 2007,” Ford said in a statement released Tuesday. Mustang sales are up 53 percent for the first eight months of the year, to nearly 87,000. The demand for the new Mustang drove Chevrolet Camaro sales down 13 percent for the year, but the all-new sixth generation Camaro, due out later this year, could challenge Mustang’s lead next year.

Fiat Chrysler Automobiles said the Dodge Challenger had its best August on record with a 25 percent increase to 5,235 units, thanks in part to enhancements made to the 2015 model year, including a new 8-speed automatic transmission and a more powerful V8 engine. But despite a 36 percent increase in Challenger sales for the first eight months of the year, Dodge’s muscle trails the Mustang and Camaro in demand.
Estimates from major automotive forecasters like Edmunds.com, Kelley Blue Book and TrueCar Inc. predict total August U.S. new-auto sales to ring in at about 1.52 million units. The seasonally adjusted annualized rate – a key 12-month running estimate that gauges consumer sentiment and the health of the automotive sector – is expected to be between 17.2 million and 17.4 million for the month, about where 2015 total new-auto sales are expected to fall.
Last year, Americans bought 16.5 million new cars, SUVs and pickup trucks, and this year will likely be the sixth consecutive for growth, an unprecedented run fueled by low interest rates and improved economic conditions compared to 2009, when U.S. sales dropped to 10.4 million units, a 27-year low.
More Americans are reaching for bicycles for quick workouts or to replace cars for daily commutes, an encouraging sign for public health -- and the environment. But as they do, the rate of cycling-related injuries and hospital stays in the U.S. is steadily climbing. Both rose sharply between 2008 and 2013, according to data published Tuesday by the Journal of the American Medical Association. And older Americans are feeling more of the pain.
There’s ample evidence to support the health benefits of cycling, which has been shown to improve cardiovascular fitness and make it easier to maintain a healthy weight. These perks have persuaded more Americans to take to the road -- the number of people who had ridden a bicycle in the past year rose from 47 million in 2008 to 67 million in 2014 -- a 70 percent increase.
But new research by a team of scientists from the University of California San Francisco shows that the rate of bicycling-related injuries and hospital stays is also steadily growing, which could be a sign that the nation’s enthusiasm for cycling is outpacing safety efforts and urban improvements such as designated bike lanes to protect users. Perhaps most notably, U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry broke his femur this year in a cycling accident in France.  
The researchers searched a database that compiles data from 100 emergency departments across the country for bicycling-related injuries from 1998 to 2013. Over that period, the number of cyclists who were injured in an accident increased by 28 percent. The rate of injuries rose from 96 per 100,000 cyclists to 123 per 100,000 cyclists during those 15 years. At the same time, the rate of hospitalizations among cyclists rose by 120 percent, from about five hospital stays per 100,000 cyclists in 1998 to 11 by 2013.
Much of the increase is due to the fact that more people are riding bikes -- bicycle commuting grew 47 percent over the past decade, according to the bicycle advocacy group People for Bikes. But the authors also point out that since the rate of hospitalizatons grew faster than the rate of injuries during their study, cyclists may also be suffering more severe injuries. Overall, the number of cyclists who are involved in accidents remains a small fraction of those who take to the road.  
Older Americans seem to be driving the trend, which reflects previous data showing they have taken up cycling at a faster rate than other age groups. Of all those cyclists who sustained bicycling-related injuries, the proportion of Americans over 45 years old who were harmed while riding jumped from 23 percent in 1998 to 42 percent in 2013. The proportion of hospital admissions for this group also grew substantially. By 2013, older cyclists were responsible for 65 percent of bicycling-related hospital stays. The authors suggest that further investment in cycling infrastructure and safety outreach may serve these riders in particular. 
Thirteen Chinese brokerage firms -- as of 11 p.m. Tuesday, Hong Kong time -- have indicated that they will pump money into the government-backed margin finance agency to stabilize China's markets. A total of 50 brokerage houses may contribute to the effort, which is expected to reach 100 billion yuan, or about $15.7 billion.
The planned investment comes as Chinese markets have slowed down and threatened global markets, ultimately making August the worst month in three years for the American stock markets, according to the Guardian. China's manufacturing sector seems to be slumping, pulling down the markets overseas through a selloff of shares.
The market slowdown that seemed to start last week and saw stock shares plummet came after China intentionally devalued its currency earlier in the month. At 2.8 percent, it was the largest yuan depreciation in 20 years, and its impact has been felt throughout the world. The depreciation at the time was largely seen as a distress signal from policymakers in Beijing. It could mean that the growth that had been seen in the Chinese market was not as strong as previously thought.
BREAKING: 50 China brokerages will jointly contribute 100 bln RMB capital to gov margin finance agency to start &quot;new round of market rescue&quot;
&mdash; George Chen (@george_chen) September 1, 2015
So far 13 brokerages confirmed in their stock filings tonight about capital contributions - official Securities Times pic.twitter.com/q5LL90VjRN
&mdash; George Chen (@george_chen) September 1, 2015
New round of capital contributions by 50 firms came after CSRC meeting Saturday as regulator urge sec industry to be united to stabilize mkt
&mdash; George Chen (@george_chen) September 1, 2015
Investors across the globe fear the impact of weaker economic growth in China, reflected in indicators like the price of oil and the long-term prospects for auto production. In response to the concern, Premier Li Keqiang has insisted that the Chinese economy is growing at a "reasonable" pace and that another currency depreciation is not necessary at this time. On Tuesday, new data indicated that factory production had actually shrunk at its fastest rate in six years in August.
The Dow Jones Industrial Average lost more than 300 points Tuesday morning.
The Hyundai Tucson is not exciting to look at, fun to drive or particularly cool. You’re not going to brag to your friends that you just bought one, nor are car enthusiasts in Mustangs and Subarus going to give you thumbs-up at red lights to validate your ticket to the cool car club. But a compact crossover’s job isn’t to be enthralling -- it’s to meet as many of your daily car needs as possible. At that level, the Hyundai Tucson succeeds: it’s quiet, comfortable and decently efficient, if a bit light on features.
Hyundai loaned International Business Times a Tucson Eco, equipped with its 1.6-liter, four-cylinder turbocharged engine attached to a new seven-speed dual-clutch transmission. In simple terms, they’ve stuffed a very tiny engine (the same size engine that  powers the Fiesta ST hot hatchback  , for example) in a heavy crossover in an effort to curb fuel consumption. While it certainly has its flaws, it’s probably the package that most prospective Tucson buyers will be considering. Still, depending on your priorities, this Tucson may not quite measure up to the competition.
Exterior
Let’s be honest, styling isn’t the main reason people buy cheap crossovers. Nothing in the segment is particularly daring, and the Tucson doesn’t challenge the status quo (though it does look  better than the model it replaces). It’s going to blend into suburban parking lots everywhere, but the Ruby Wine paint our test car was sprayed with is a nice way to stand out a little bit.
Hyundai’s corporate horizontal grill dominates the Tucson’s face, supported by a pair of downturned headlamps. Past that, there’s not much to say -- the Tucson looks decent, but nobody’s going to bother you for photos at a gas station.
Interior
The 2016 Hyundai Tucson does have a huge amount of cargo space available, once you fold the rear seats down. I was able to fit my cyclocross bike (a large 58" frame) in the back without even detaching the front wheel. Photo: Nick Deel / International Business Times
What I can say about the Tucson Eco’s interior is that it’s at least well-laid-out. The Eco lacks a large infotainment system, so many of the major functions are delegated to buttons, but it never felt overwhelming. The center console itself is tidy, though the standard 3.5-inch screen really isn’t useful for anything but displaying the time and radio station.There’s a nice amount of storage space along the center stack and console, good enough for some big drinks, wallets, phones and whatever else you can think to fit in the cavernous armrest. Should you need them, each door also has its own built-in cupholder. The rear seats can fold nearly flat, revealing a vast cargo area; for reference, I fit my 58-inch frame road bicycle without having to remove the front wheel. There was still plenty of room to spare, so the Tucson will have no trouble carrying most of the things a typical crossover owner will throw in it. There is a downside to all of this utility engineering, however.
None of the materials used to make the Hyundai Tucson’s interior feel particularly nice. The things you touch most often -- the steering wheel, radio buttons, armrest -- those aren’t bad. But when you look around and start touching the dashboard and door panels, you notice the Tucson’s shortcomings. Granted, this is one of the cheapest versions of the car that you can buy, but it’s worth noting.
Features / Toys
The 2016 Hyundai Tucson has a small 3.5 inch screen in Eco trim, which serves not only as the radio display, but also the backup camera. It's too small to be that useful, which is a shame because it's definitely difficult to see out of the Tucson.  Photo: Nick Deel / International Business Times
Here’s where things get difficult for the Tucson. At the Eco trim level, you get a very basic car, with Bluetooth connectivity and some roof rails, for $25,000. The Honda CR-V EX is about $1,000 more, but it has lane departure warning, a 7-inch infotainment screen and a sunroof yet still gets 1 MPG more on the highway. The Mazda CX-5 Touring offers the same features as the CR-V except for the sunroof.  So if you’re looking at the Tucson simply from a price/value perspective, keep in mind that the Eco model may not have some things you might expect at this price level. To get a blindspot monitoring system, you have to pay an extra $2,000 for the Sport trim, and to get a large touchscreen/infotainment panel, you have to spend $30,000 for the top-end Limited trim -- both of which lose 3 MPG on the highway, even before you tick the AWD option box.
Powertrain
Underneath that massive hood lies a tiny 1.6L four cylinder engine, fitted with a turbocharger. Even five years ago, that would have been unthinkable for a car this size, but Hyundai has managed to make it work. Mostly. Photo: Nick Deel / International Business Times
Hyundai has heavily promoted the little 1.6-liter turbo engine and the 7-speed transmission, talking about accessible power, quick shifts and great MPG ratings. The motor does produce respectable numbers (175 HP and 195 TQ, respectively) and the dual-clutch transmission does shift up and down really nicely when you’re really hammering the throttle. When you’re cruising on the highway at 70 MPH, the Tucson is quietly humming away at just over 2,000 RPM, where I observed a slightly better-than-advertised 34 MPG thanks to the Eco tires.
The bad news is that the Tucson can’t defy physics. It’s still a heavy vehicle: 3,400 pounds at its lightest, 3,700 at its fattest, with a tiny engine and a lot of gears (Hyundai, please put this drivetrain in the Elantra GT!). This translates into a lack of cohesion and power in city environments, where the heft gives the computer reason to ask itself: “Do we need to downshift one gear or two?” to which it usually answers its own question with, “Ah, screw it, let’s go with three!” The turbo spins up, and all of a sudden you get a big burp of torque two seconds after you needed to get into the next lane. As you might imagine, this isn’t the smoothest experience.
Nor is it the most economical. Even with the lightest touch, I never could match Hyundai’s claimed 26 MPG city; the best I managed was 24. Once you get the car up to speed it’s fine, but leapfrogging city and suburban traffic without shifting the transmission yourself isn’t the smoothest experience. Over the week I had the car, I averaged 28 MPG with a 50/50 city/highway mix.
Handling
The Hyundai Tucson will go around corners, though that's not really its thing. Even with the Eco's low rolling resistance tires, the Tucson has a good amount of grip given its height and purpose. Don't do anything silly and it'll be just fine. Photo: Nick Deel / International Business Times
Look, the Tucson is a cheap crossover. It’s not meant to do anything exciting or put a smile on your face as you nail the apex of a corner. The brakes are mushy, and steering feels more like a suggestion than a command. Yet, even on the hard, low-rolling resistance tires, the Tucson actually deals with corners -- even long, higher speed sweepers that  I push sports cars around  -- pretty well. Sure, there’s tremendous body roll, but it’s well-controlled. It’s not entertaining, but for a vehicle of its heft and height, it’s better than expected.
Conclusion
If you’re determined to spend a maximum of $25,000 on a small/mid-size crossover as a family car, the Hyundai Tucson Eco does have a few things going for it. It’s quiet, safe, decent to look at and, transmission aside, very simple. Plus it comes with Hyundai’s famous lengthy warranty. This segment is incredibly competitive, though, and depending on what features you want, the Tuscon may not fit.
Helped by Americans’ ceaseless demand for pickup trucks, Ford Motor said Tuesday its U.S. sales jumped 5 percent in August, its best performance for that month since 2007. Fiat Chrysler Automobiles’ sales increased 2 percent with the help of Ram trucks, while General Motors reported a 1 percent drop but big gains in Silverado and Sierra sales.
“Improved availability helped make August the strongest sales month this year for F-Series,” Mark LaNeve, Ford’s head of U.S. sales, said in a statement. “We also had our best month of Ford SUV sales in 12 years.”
Sales of America’s most popular pickup trucks made by the three North American automakers increased 8 percent last month.
Ford’s F-150 truck sales got off to a choppy start this year as the automaker had to retrofit its assembly lines making the 2015 F-150, the first aluminum-body Ford pickup truck, because aluminum and steel have to be fabricated differently. Last month, F-Series truck sales (which include a small number of heavy duty trucks, like the F-350) increased 5 percent to 71,332 units, mostly on demand for the new F-150.

Overall U.S. truck sales are booming and, along with SUVs, have carried the U.S. auto market through what will become the sixth consecutive year of growth since the 2009 economic downturn. Total U.S. new car sales are in line to top 17 million in 2015 for the first time since 2001, when sales hit 17.2 million.
Fiat Chrysler Automobiles said Ram pickup truck sales jumped 4 percent last month to 45,310 units, while General Motors reported a 10 percent jump in Chevrolet Silverado and GMC Sierra truck sales, to 69,048. The Silverado and Sierra are mechanically identical, with the pricier Sierra offering more luxurious interior options.
The F-150, Silverado and Ram 1500 trucks are the three best-selling models in America.
Automakers release their U.S. sales numbers throughout the day Tuesday. Forecasters expect U.S. new auto sales to have dropped by as much as 4 percent in August to roughly 1.53 million units, compared with the comparable month last year. The annual Labor Day sales weekend, one of the biggest new car sales events of the year, lands in early September this year instead of late August.
“Last August was a monster month that included Labor Day weekend,” Jessica Caldwell, director of industry analysis for automotive shopping site Edmunds.com, said in a statement.
Home healthcare workers in Minnesota have joined a growing chorus across the country calling for a $15-an-hour minimum wage. Workers in the fast food industry have won victories in several cities and states in recent months to raise their minimum wage to $15 hourly, and now, employees in other sectors of the economy are trying to follow suit.
Leading the movement is the Service Employees International Union's Drive for 15, a national effort to raise the minimum wage to $15 an hour for low-wage employees in a plethora of sectors. Among them are airport workers, shuttle bus drivers and, now, home healthcare aides, who make rounds to the residences of people who are physically disabled, elderly or have chronic illnesses or mental disabilities and need help with tasks ranging from grocery shopping, doing laundry and preparing food to taking medication and checking vital signs.
In 2012, the median pay for a home healthcare aide in the United States was $20,820 year, or $10.01 per hour, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. That year, the country had about 875,100 home healthcare aide jobs, but with an aging population, that number is expected to grow by nearly 50 percent in a decade, outpacing the average job growth for all occupations.
Minnesota Home Health Care Workers Push For $15 Minimum Wage http://t.co/SRTdTpNi8t
&mdash; Local News Feeds (@localnewsfeeds) September 1, 2015
In Minnesota, Rep. Keith Ellison, a Democrat, has expressed public support for increasing home healthcare aides' wages. Those workers formed a union in August 2014 and eventually reached an agreement with the state to increase their minimum wage to $11 an hour. That new rate went into effect July 1, and also granted workers five days a year of paid time off.
“We are all one injury or one illness away from needing the care that you all can provide to him,” Ellison told the workers, CBS Minnesota reported. “Without treating our home healthcare workers properly, then we have people who need 24-hour care. It’s more expensive and the care is not as good.” 
Massachusetts home care workers in June won a $15 an hour starting wage. Oregon also granted a minimum wage hike to $15 an hour for home healthcare aides, in an agreement reached in August.
Minnesota has more than 42,000 healthcare and long-term care workers, according to SEIU Healthcare Minnesota.
HONG KONG -- Luxury apartment blocks in London, penthouses in New York, condominiums with Sydney harbor views -- China's slowing economy, market turmoil and devalued currency are leading Chinese investors to convert their yuan into bricks and mortar.  
"Australians might think they've seen a lot of Chinese investment in the Sydney and Melbourne property market, but we ain't seen nothing yet," Colonial First State Global Asset Management chief economist Stephen Halmarick told the Sydney Morning Herald last month.
A “knee-jerk” reaction from investors could actually boost Chinese investment in overseas real estate, as investors seek security in more stable markets, and aim to convert their yuan into other currencies, ahead of further possible devaluation.
Reforms in China earlier this year, aimed at liberalization of China's equity, bond and currency markets, have inflated asset prices across the world, especially property.
During the first half of 2015, Chinese investment in overseas commercial properties, which is a proxy for outbound residential investment, according to the Wall Street Journal, totaled $6.5 billion, well on track to surpass 2014’s total of $10.5 billion, according to CBRE, a U.S.-based property services firm.
Despite the slowing Chinese economy this year, investors in that country have been doubling down on overseas real estate in the first half of 2015. Spending by Chinese investors -- already the largest group of foreign real estate buyers in the U.S., with 16 percent of the single homes and condominiums purchased by foreign buyers, according to the National Home Buyer's Alliance -- eclipsed its 2014 levels by 68 percent in the first half of this year.
The trend, at least in the short term, is likely to continue.
China’s autumn Golden Week set to generate ‘property spree’ - Overseas Property Professional http://t.co/tXWFi3QbKQ pic.twitter.com/BHbgM47q1l
— Juwai.com (@JuwaiLimited) August 31, 2015
 
“The slowdown in the [Chinese] economy is actually pushing people out to invest, because the returns from outside China are a lot better than those you can get at home,” Terrance Tang, managing director of capital markets and investment services, Asia, at international real estate services firm Colliers International, told International Business Times.
“[Investors] will have to evaluate whether, after the devaluation, the returns are still justifiable, particularly given the fact that there may be more devaluation,” he added.
Among real estate brokers, on the front lines of the market, confidence in continuing flows of Chinese capital, for now, remains high.
Li Keqiang, premier of the People's Republic of China and party secretary of the State Council, speaks at a news conference in October 2014. In remarks published Saturday, Li sought to ease fears about China's economic slowdown and stock market volatility.  Photo: Getty Images  “I think if anything, the number of Chinese investors in [the Australian property] market will continue ... Our view is that property always works well in a volatile stock market environment: people seek safety in bricks and mortar,” Dan White, a director of the Ray White Group, an Australian real estate brokerage with an annual turnover in excess of 27 billion Australian dollars, that has branches in Beijing and Hong Kong, told IBTimes.
White told IBTimes he had met with 23 groups of investors on a visit to China last week, and that all were keen to pursue ongoing investment opportunities in Australia. “There's the risk that people were just being polite, but when we did throw out the option that we had buyers who would love to acquire what they had previously bought [in Australia], none of them, zero, were interested in that discussion,” he said.
Earlier this year, Australia’s foreign investment review body said China had overtaken the U.S. as the country’s biggest source of investment from overseas, with a total of AU$37 billion ($25.8 billion) last year, according to the Wall Street Journal.
One U.S. broker told Business Insider that she already has felt an increase in urgency among her buyers to purchase property in the U.S. before the yuan devalues further.
"Because they are insecure about the economy and the politics, with the RMB [yuan] devaluation, the stock market got mashed, and the real estate in China is a big bubble -- there is nowhere to go."
Other brokers, however, urged caution, saying it was too soon to accurately gauge the impact of China's economic difficulties on overseas real estate.
“International property investment is a long-term trend. It is gaining momentum and has many years of growth ahead of it, quite independent of the China equities market,” Andrew Taylor, co-CEO of Juwai.com, a website that helps Chinese buyers find international property, told IBTimes in a statement.
“That said, you can make some predictions. If wealthy Chinese expect the yuan to devalue even more later this year, they may move liquid assets overseas, where they can avoid loss of value ... Many Chinese consider a New York or San Francisco apartment to be virtually deflation-proof,” he added.
A woman walks past a window of a brokerage house with stock information reflected in it, in Shanghai, Aug. 26, 2015.  Photo: Reuters/China Daily  In addition to the inflow of capital, Chinese investors also have other effects on international markets. Brokers IBTimes spoke to said Chinese participation in their local markets boosted the confidence of local investors, pushing up activity and pricing. Any slowdown that dented Chinese overseas investment, therefore, would have the effect of both removing investment capital from those markets as well as denting the confidence of local investors, further limiting market activity.
In the longer term, however, if an economic malaise continues to grip China, it is likely to have knock-on effects on international real estate markets.
“I think in the majority of markets [a Chinese slowdown will have a negative impact in the long term],” said Tang.
“The sentiment is not as positive as before. Chinese investors will probably not be as aggressive as before. They want to look for more risk-averse investment opportunities, so that they are able to convert more of their RMB into offshore currency,” he added.
White agreed, saying: “If Chinese investors were to scale back on investment on its own and with the absence of any new increased demand from other sources, it would have a meaningful impact on the market and something the market would have to recover from.”
For now, at least, investors seem keen to act in accordance with an old saying reworked: When there's blood on the street -- or the trading floor -- buy property.
This story was updated at 4:15 p.m. EDT
U.S. stocks tumbled Tuesday, with the Dow Jones Industrial Average dropping nearly 500 points on renewed global slowdown concerns. The losses come as new data revealed factory production in China shrank in August at its fastest pace in more than six years, sending shares in Asia, Europe and the U.S. on a slide for the first trading day of September.
All three major U.S. indexes lost more than 2 percent, pushing the blue-chip Dow and the Standard & Poor's 500 into correction territory. The Nasdaq composite erased all of its gains for the year, joining the Dow and S&P 500 in turning negative for the year. 
“The Asian giant’s slowdown could weigh severely on emerging markets' growth, and in turn slow Europe and the U.S.,” Gregory Daco, head of U.S. macroeconomics at Oxford Economics, said in a research note.
The Dow Jones Industrial Average (INDEXDJX:.DJI) closed down 470 points, or 2.8 percent, to 16,058. The Standard & Poor's 500 index (INDEXSP:.INX) lost 58 points, or 3 percent, to 1,914. And the Nasdaq composite (INDEXNASDAQ:.IXIC) fell 140 points, or 2.9 percent, to 4,636.
The New York Stock Exchange invoked Rule 48 Tuesday for the fourth time in two weeks to preempt panic selling.
All 10 of the Standard & Poor's 500 sectors traded lower, led by a 3 percent decline in energy stocks after U.S. oil prices dropped below $46 a barrel. The financial and materials sectors also weighed on the index, shedding more than 2 percent.
Energy also led the Dow sharply lower, with Exxon Mobil Corporation (NYSE:XOM) losing roughly 4 percent. 
Separate data released Tuesday showed the pace of U.S. manufacturing growth slowed in August to its weakest rate in over two years. The Institute for Supply Management (ISM) said its index of national factory activity fell to 51.1 last month from 52.7 in July, its lowest reading since May 2013.
U.S. crude oil prices snapped a three-day rally Tuesday, falling below $46 a barrel, a day after posting its biggest three-day percentage increase since 1990.
West Texas Intermediate crude, the benchmark for U.S. oil prices, lost 7.7 percent to $45.41 per barrel for October delivery on the New York Mercantile Exchange. On the London ICE Futures Exchange, Brent crude, the global benchmark for oil prices, sank 8 percent to $49.52.
Treasury yields edged lower, with the 10-year Treasury yield falling to 2.17 percent.
The sharp declines Tuesday follow last week’s global selloff as more signs pointed to China’s economy decelerating at a much-faster-than-expected pace, raising questions about the government’s ability to prop up the economy.
First, China unexpectedly devalued the yuan three weeks ago, and then preliminary data on Aug. 21 showed production in Chinese factories shrank significantly in August.
Adding to concerns Tuesday, the final Caixin/Markit manufacturing purchasing managers' index (PMI) fell to 47.3 in August, down from 47.8 in July. It was the worst reading since March 2009, sending China’s benchmark Shanghai Composite down more than 1 percent. The index has lost roughly 40 percent of its value from its peak in mid-June.
The losses also spilled over to Japan's Nikkei 225 index, which dropped nearly 4 percent. Meanwhile, European stocks closed lower Tuesday, with the pan-European STOXX 600 lost 2.9 percent in afternoon trading, while London's FTSE 100 sank 3 percent. Meanwhile, Germany's DAX and France's CAC lost 2.3 percent and 2.4 percent, respectively.
However, the data was mildly higher than the initial “flash” reading of 47.1 reported on Aug. 21. A reading above 50 indicates an expansion in activity while a reading below signals a contraction.
Separately, China's government released PMI data Tuesday, which slipped to 49.7 in August, marking its weakest level since August 2012. This was down from 50 in July and in line with analysts’ projections. However, this is the first time the official PMI has fallen below 50 in six months, according to Nomura.
Caixin's China PMI data tends to focus on smaller and medium-sized companies, filling a hole that isn't covered by the government's official data.
Wall Street is looking ahead to a speech from Boston Federal Reserve President Eric Rosengren, a nonvoting member of the Federal Open Market Committee, who is scheduled to speak about the U.S. economy Tuesday at 1:15 p.m. EDT at the Forecasters Club of New York.
Market professionals will be watching for further hints about the timing of the U.S. central bank's next interest rate hike. Most economists had forecast the central bank would announce raising rates at its upcoming Sept. 16-17 meeting, which would mark the first rate increase in nearly a decade.
However, the meeting comes at a pivotal time as global markets reacted violently in August to signs China's economy is decelerating at a much faster pace than expected. Rates have hovered near historic lows since the global financial crisis, and experts fear an economic slowdown in the world’s second-largest economy could stall the U.S. recovery following the Great Recession.
Employed Americans are less worried about their pay being cut, according to a Gallup poll released Monday. One in five Americans with a job said in August that they were worried about their wages being reduced in the near future, which is a significantly lower percentage than the same figure in recent years. 
As the unemployment rate has steadily decreased, workers in the past few years have become less worried about various aspects of their jobs, including being laid off, losing benefits or having hours cut, according to Gallup. Still, attitudes have not returned to pre-recession positivity. On average, just 16 percent of employed Americans were worried about wage reductions from 2003-2008. 
Americans were especially worried about wage reductions amid the uncertainty of the Great Recession, with the percentage of those concerned about pay cuts hitting a high of 32 percent in 2009. In 2013, the figure was 31 percent. Last year, it dropped sharply to about one in four people.
In 2015, 20 percent of employed Americans (one in five) were worried about wage reductions, Gallup found. In early August, the poll surveyed a random sample of 1,011 adults living in all 50 states and Washington, D.C. through telephone interviews.
The poll on wage reductions found that Americans could be beginning to feel that their lives were returning to early 2000s economic highs or that people have begun getting used to a new climate and growing more comfortable with "a new reality," Gallup concluded.
The lack of concern over wage reductions comes amid a new push toward a raised minimum wage. Seattle passed a law mandating a $15 minimum wage and New York City has planned the same minimum for fast food workers. The White House has pushed for higher minimum wages as well.
The Gallup poll was conducted before global economic uncertainty following an economic slowdown in China after stocks fell sharply on what has been dubbed "Black Monday." After the worst month for U.S. stocks since 2012, stock futures fell sharply Tuesday morning amid growing concerns in China. 
Canada’s economy shrank at an annualized pace of 0.9 percent in the second quarter of this year, Bloomberg reported Tuesday. Because Canada's gross domestic product, or GDP, fell at a rate of 0.6 percent in the first quarter, the ongoing slowdown would mark a technical recession for Canada, its first in four years. A technical recession is defined as two consecutive quarters of contraction.
Other sources reported the predicted contraction as being slightly greater than 0.9 percent. Statistics Canada was expected to report that the country’s economy contracted at an annualized rate of 1 percent in the second quarter, the Canadian Press reported. But the possible recession was framed as a brief one, despite falling energy prices.
"A number of positive elements are coming through," Beata Caranci, chief economist at TD Bank, said, the Canadian Press reported. "Even if, like we're expecting, we get a contraction in the second quarter, the consumption numbers are likely to be fairly healthy."
Canada’s vast array of natural resources constitute nearly 20 percent of the country’s gross domestic product and are linked directly or indirectly to 1.8 million jobs, according to the government site Natural Resources Canada. Canada is one of the top five natural gas and crude oil-producing countries in the world. It also produces potash, uranium, aluminum and other valuable metals and minerals.
As a result, the recent drop in energy prices has taken a toll on Canada. Most recently, after a major decline in Chinese stock markets Aug. 24 sparked worldwide concerns about economic turmoil, oil prices fell to a six-year low last week, though they have since begun to rise again. China is the world’s second-largest consumer of oil, and its reduced demand could spell troubles for oil-producing countries, especially as the 12 countries in the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, the cartel frequently known as OPEC, have so far refused to decrease production despite falling prices.
For Canada, some predictions for the third quarter forecast economic growth, ranging from 2 to 2.5 percent, according to TD bank, or 1.5 percent, according to the Bank of Canada. Others are less optimistic.
"Most of the forward-looking indicators are pointing to further weakness,” David Madani, an economist at the London-based consulting group Capital Economics, told the Canadian Press. “We are expecting a return to positive growth, but I think it's going to be growth that's fairly weak — well below the economy's potential growth rate of 2 percent."
The cost of caring for refugees and integrating them into German society could cost Germany from 1.8 billion to 3.3 billion euros in 2016, German Labor Minister Andrea Nahles said Tuesday, Reuters reported. Thousands of refugees fleeing violent conflict have been arriving on Europe's shores throughout the summer, and one of the most popular final destinations has been Germany, where the economy is one of the strongest in Europe.
The European nation has said it expects to welcome between 240,000 and 460,000 refugees in the coming year, and the cost of caring for that many new people will translate to a high additional cost in Germany's social spending. As of Aug. 25, however, Germany reported a 21.1 billion euro surplus in its national budget, and the money will likely come out of the surplus, a local newspaper reported. 
Money allocated for refugees would cover costs such as healthcare, education and food assistance. Many of the refugees arriving in Germany have come from Syria and Iraq and do not speak German. The additional budget money would also go to paying for German classes so that the refugees could integrate into society and find work more easily.
Germany has taken these refugees on an entirely volunteer basis and has offered to take more people than any other European nation. Britain has said it will only take 1,000 refugees. 
German Chancellor Angela Merkel has warned that Europe's current refugee crisis is far more pressing than the issue of Greek debt. Above, Merkel arrives for the weekly cabinet meeting at the chancellery in Berlin Aug. 12, 2015. Photo: Reuters/Stefanie Loos
Germans have met the surge in refugees with mixed reactions. Some politicians and citizens, including Chancellor Angela Merkel, have continued to insist on the need to welcome refugees who have been persecuted by war. "There can be no upper limit set on the intake of people who are fleeing persecution and need protection," Manfred Schmidt, head of the Federal Office for Migration and Refugees in Germany, said Monday.
Others, fearing refugees will take their jobs, have reacted with protests that have frequently turned violent. People living in a refugee camp in Germany have been attacked by self-proclaimed neo-Nazis who burned the camp and wounded police who tried to stop the violence. 
“If Europe fails on the question of refugees, its close connection with universal civil rights will be destroyed,” Merkel said Monday.
Marissa Mayer, the Yahoo Inc. chief executive, will soon have two new reasons to take some time away from work. Mayer announced Tuesday that she is pregnant with identical twin girls and is due to give birth in December.
But that’s unlikely to slow her down much at work. Mayer, 40, said she is going to limit the amount of leave she takes following delivery, as she did with her first child.
"Since this is a unique time in Yahoo's transformation, I plan to approach the pregnancy and delivery as I did with my son three years ago, taking limited time away and working throughout," Mayer wrote on Yahoo’s corporate blog Tuesday. “I’ve shared the news and my plans with Yahoo’s board of directors and my executive team, and they are incredibly supportive and happy for me.”
Mayer's pregnancy announcement comes as Yahoo prepares to spin off its stake in Alibaba Group Holding Ltd, the Chinese e-commerce giant, and considers what to do with its holdings in Yahoo Japan Corp., according to a Reuters report. The announcement also is likely to renew a debate about leave for new parents and the status of women in the workplace.
Yahoo said in its corporate blog Tuesday that it was "extremely happy" for Mayer and supports her approach to taking maternity leave.
Mayer was pregnant when she joined Yahoo as CEO in 2012 and gave birth to a boy in September of that year, Reuters reported. She worked from home after the birth and was back in office after being away for two weeks.
In an effort to boost employee morale at the nearly 20-year-old Internet company, Mayer increased the amount of paid leave offered to new parents in 2013. The policy change allowed new mothers to take up to 16 weeks of paid time off and fathers eight. However, a ban on employees working from home in the same year angered many. Critics said the policy would actually make life more difficult for working parents.
Global stocks tumbled Tuesday after China offered fresh evidence of a sharper-than-expected economic slowdown. The globe-spanning stock rout began when China disclosed that August factory production in the world’s second-largest economy shrank at its fastest rate in more than six years.
The final Caixin/Markit manufacturing purchasing managers' index (PMI) fell to 47.3 in August, down from 47.8 in July. It was the worst reading since March 2009, sending China’s benchmark Shanghai Composite down more than 1 percent. A reading above 50 indicates an expansion in activity while a reading below 50 signals a contraction.
The losses spilled over to European markets, sending London's FTSE 100 stock index down 2.5 percent, while the pan-European STOXX 600 sank 2.7 percent. Meanwhile, Germany's DAX and France's CAC lost 2.8 percent and 2.7 percent, respectively.
U.S. stocks look set to open sharply lower following Asia and Europe’s weak lead, with the Dow Jones Industrial Average futures (INDEXDJX:.DJI) down 323 points, or 2 percent, to 16,185. The Standard & Poor's 500 index futures (INDEXSP:.INX) lost 39 points, or 2 percent, to 1,930. And the Nasdaq composite futures (INDEXNASDAQ:.IXIC) fell 91 points, or 2 percent, to 4,181. Futures do not always accurately predict how the market will open.
Meanwhile, U.S. crude oil prices reversed their recent upward trend and traded lower in premarket trading Tuesday, falling below $48 a barrel, a day after posting its biggest three-day percentage increase since 1990. West Texas Intermediate crude, the benchmark for U.S. oil prices, lost 2.5 percent to $47.95 per barrel for October delivery on the New York Mercantile Exchange. On the London ICE Futures Exchange, Brent crude, the global benchmark for oil prices, sank nearly 3 percent to $52.61.
The eurozone’s manufacturing growth also eased last month, with Markit's final manufacturing PMI coming in at 52.3 in August, below an earlier “flash” reading of 52.4. However, the reading has remained above the 50 mark, which separates growth from contraction, for more than two years. 
For years, Zimbabwe’s longtime president Robert Mugabe has looked East for valuable Chinese investment to bolster his country’s sinking economy. But as China's economy slowdowns, Zimbabwe may soon need a new savior to protect it from a rising wave of debt, unemployment, famine and economic recession.
“The Chinese are not going to rescue the economy for [Mugabe],” said Stephen Chan, who returned from Zimbabwe last week and is a professor of international relations at the University of London’s School of Oriental and African Studies. “I think people are very, very concerned.”
Mugabe, who has seen Zimbabwe’s economic growth expand and contract since taking power in 1980, outlined reforms to parliament last week that promised to attract more investment and create jobs. He cited key projects with China in energy, railways, telecommunication, water, mining, agriculture and tourism sectors. Mugabe, 91, also said he welcomed re-engagement with the West and multilateral financial bodies like the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank, as Zimbabwe seeks to mend relations with lenders and secure fresh capital to revive its economy after years of alleged human rights violations, Reuters reported.
But China’s devalued yuan has caused commodity prices to dip and the Chinese have refrained from committing to large new investment in Zimbabwe. Mugabe returned from a visit to Beijing last year with few commitments for additional aid or investment, while Chinese and other Asian shares fell again Monday as global concerns about the health of China’s economy continued and hit markets around the world. 
Other international lenders have also rejected Mugabe's loan requests due to outstanding arrears. The Zimbabwean government currently owes the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank and other lenders about $9 billion.
A Zimbabwean coin vendor counts his coins in the capital Harare on June 27, 2012. Hyperinflation forced Zimbabwe to trash its dollar in 2009 for foreign currency, including the U.S. dollar and the South African rand. Photo: JEKESAI NJIKIZANA/AFP/Getty Images
Under Mugabe, Zimbabwe’s Economic ‘Hole’
International sanctions against Zimbabwe over Mugabe’s alleged electoral fraud and human right’s abuses have exacerbated the country’s financial woes. Mugabe won his seventh term as president in 2013 in a disputed election amid claims of election fraud. Over the years, the Zimbabwean government has been accused of political violence, unlawfully evicting scores of residents, violating the rights of LGBT people and suppressing basic freedoms. Zimbabwean police have been accused of using excessive force and wrongfully arresting opposition and civil society activists, according to a recent report by Human Rights Watch in Washington, D.C.
Mugabe’s policies on land reform and black economic empowerment in 2000, which ordered the takeover of white-owned farms, have also comprised economic growth and deterred investors.  The land reform program led to an economic crash in which agricultural production slumped 73 percent, unemployment rocketed to over 90 percent, inflation soared to 250 million percent and the population was living on just $2 per day by 2008. At the same time, Zimbabwe’s gross domestic product (GDP) was estimated to have contracted by a total of 50.3 percent between 2000 and 2008. 
Zimbabwe is still wheeling from the catastrophic recession, in part because the government failed to increase transparency in diamond production and revenue collection, which has affected its ability to invest in essential public services like water, education, sanitation and health. The volatile commerical climate has dissuaded further investment and loan commitments across East and West, experts said.
“[The Chinese] don’t see the kind of financial transparency they’d like to see in the Zimbabwean government, so they’re not going to throw good money into a hole they can’t monitor,” said Chan, whose research includes international politics in southern Africa. “Europeans are prepared to start reinvesting, but not on the kind of scale that’s required to jump start Zimbabwe’s economy.”
A woman holds a corn cob in a farm in Chinhamora, about 31 miles north of the capital Harare on February 10, 2011. After the worst regional drought in nearly a decade and devastating crop failures, Zimbabwe’s 2015 harvest is forecast at 950,000 metric tons of corn, the staple, which is far less than the population needs.  Photo: ALEXANDER JOE/AFP/Getty Images
‘Life Is Going To Get Much Harder’
After the worst regional drought in nearly a decade and devastating crop failures, Zimbabwe’s 2015 harvest is forecast at 950,000 metric tons of corn, which is far less than the 1.8 million metric tons the population needs. Around 16 percent of Zimbabwe’s population will lack reliable access to sufficient food later this year, according to the United Nations World Food Program. The southern African country now plans to pay $168 million to import 700,000 tons of white maize this year to feed those facing famine in the coming months.
More than 200,000 workers have lost their jobs in Zimbabwe over the past few weeks and the country’s earlier 3.2 percent economic growth forecast for 215 was slashed to just 1.5 percent in July, according to Reuters.
In a 10-point plan for economic growth, Mugabe last week vowed to boost agricultural development, private sector investment and to tackle corruption. He also agreed Sunday to relax his controversial land reform program to attract more investors. However, survey results released last week by the Mass Public Opinion Institute in Zimbabwe’s capital Harare indicated the general public thinks the country’s economic conditions remain “gloomy” and they don’t believe in Mugabe’s promises of an economic revival.
“People are concerned about returning to the terrible times of 2008, but that won’t happen in the same way since they no longer use the Zimbabwean dollar,” Chan said in a telephone interview Monday. “Definitely for the average person, life is going to get much harder.”
China-Zimbabwe Relations
China has long been Zimbabwe’s biggest economic partner, with bilateral trade totaling over $1 billion annually. Zimbabwe, rich in mineral resources, is within the top 10 destination countries for Chinese direct investment in Africa, according to a research paper published this month by the Brookings Institution think tank in Washington, D.C. China has provided Zimbabwe with low-interest loans and investment focused on mining development, agriculture, infrastructure projects and information communication technology.
While most Western leaders have shunned Mugabe, Chinese President Xi Jinping has hailed the Zimbabwean president as “an old friend of the Chinese people who we respect very much.” But Chinese investment to Zimbabwe is dwindling as Beijing braces for an economic slowdown. Without fresh capital, the Zimbabwean government will struggle to maintain vital public services and afford basic expenses, such as civil service salaries, experts said.
Even with China's help, Zimbabwe’s economic climate is unlikely to change under Mugabe, who has insisted he will run again in 2018 and warned his ruling Zimbabwe African National Union-Patriotic Front (ZANU-PF) against choosing any successor.
“As long as [Mugabe] is there, no matter what he does – good or bad – he is personally the obstacle. No one wants to put big money as long as he’s the president,” Chan said. “Things will go downwards.”
Nigeria’s currency plunged against the dollar Monday as the parallel market exchange rate rocketed amid an increased demand for the U.S. currency in the West African country, which also is grappling with a volatile currency due to China’s economic slowdown. The naira devalued by N5 to N220 per dollar as Nigerians seek the U.S. currency to pay for school abroad and the annual hajj pilgrimage to Mecca in Saudi Arabia, according to Nigerian newspaper Vanguard.
“The demand is very high and the buyers willing to pick dollars at any available price. Also, the demand of dollars by importers is increasing at an alarming rate,” Alhaji Aminu Gwadabe, president of the Association of Bureau De Change Operators of Nigeria, told Vanguard Tuesday.
U.S. dollars are seen being counted in Abuja, Nigeria, March 12, 2015.  Photo: Reuters/Afolabi Sotunde
The upcoming hajj, an annual pilgrimage to Mecca that Muslims must fulfill at least once in their lifetime, has contributed to the soaring exchange rate in Nigeria, which is split between a majority Muslim north and a mostly Christian south. Harrison Owoh, managing director and chief executive of the H.J. Trust and Investment Bureau De Change in Lagos, said 66,000 people were approved for the pilgrimage. The Central Bank of Nigeria in the capital Abuja approved a maximum sale of $1,000 to each hajj pilgrim at an exchange rate of N160 per dollar. But the hajj, which is expected to start around Sept. 21, will cost each pilgrim about $6,000, Vanguard reported.
As the school year commences, there also was an increased demand to pay for education fees abroad, which has compelled Nigerians to visit the parallel market to buy dollars or British pounds.
A downward trend in Chinese economic output also has struck Africa’s largest economy and top oil producer in recent weeks. Many sub-Saharan African currencies, including the naira, are linked to the value of their oil and other commodity exports, which began to decline earlier this year when China missed its economic growth target. The naira has fallen around 15 percent over the last year, which has fueled inflation despite the central bank spending billions of dollars to bolster the Nigerian currency.
A Spanish company, which manufactures wing parts for Boeing 777 jets, cast doubts over a flaperon’s link to the missing Malaysia Airlines Flight MH370, CNN reported Monday. The news comes as mystery over the flaperon’s discovery deepens after French authorities gave no confirmation about its origin even after concluding the first phase of inspections late last month.
The company told French investigators that it "cannot tell with certainty" if the part of a Boeing 777 wing, which was found on Réunion Island in the Indian Ocean in July, was from Flight MH370, CNN reported, citing a French source.
French investigators had hoped that serial numbers found on the flaperon could be matched with records from the Spanish company to confirm that the debris was from the missing plane, but it “proved impossible.”
Flight MH370 went missing on March 8, 2014 with 239 people on board while on its way from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing. The discovery of the flaperon gave rise to hopes that the mystery over the plane's disappearance would finally be solved. However, French authorities examining the flaperon, which is the strongest piece of evidence to surface so far, have not confirmed its origin even after a month of its discovery. Malaysian authorities previously confirmed the flaperon’s link to the missing Boeing 777-200.
"There are strong indications that this flaperon is from MH370, but we are still unsure. We are still missing identification from the parts list in order to fully confirm it is from MH370," Martine Del Bono from French aviation body Bureau d'Enquêtes et d'Analyses (BEA) told CNN.
Despite more than a year of searches, no significant clues have been found in the ongoing investigation into the disappearance of the plane. An international search, led by Australia, is underway in an area of 46,332 square miles in the southern Indian Ocean, where authorities believe the plane went down.
Last week, experts in Germany raised doubts over the current search area, saying it is thousands of miles off-target.
Malaysia, Australia and China are expected to meet this month to determine whether the search area should be narrowed down.
Unemployment in the eurozone fell to its lowest level in over three years, even as the region’s stock markets continued to reflect the global turmoil caused by economic troubles in China. According to data released Tuesday by Eurostat -- the European Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg -- the seasonally adjusted unemployment rate for the 19-nation bloc was 10.9 percent in July, falling below 11 percent for the first time since February 2012.
However, within the eurozone, huge disparities continue to exist -- with Germany having a record low rate of 4.7 percent and Greece -- which narrowly avoided the much dreaded “Grexit” in July --reporting a 25 percent unemployment rate.
Eurozone unemployment rates in July 2015, seasonally adjusted.  Photo: Eurostat
Also released on Tuesday, the U.K. manufacturing purchasing managers’ index (PMI) for the month of August showed a decline of 0.4 points -- to 51.5 from 51.9 in July -- meaning British factories slowed down in the month.
“Export order volumes continue to disappoint, with the sterling exchange rate, weak sales growth to the eurozone and the slowdown in China all having an impact,” Rob Dobson from the survey compiler Markit said, in a statement.
Following the announcement, the pound slipped by half a cent against the U.S. dollar to $1.5339.
The latest figures come after a month of volatile trade in European bourses and just days before the European Central Bank (ECB) is due to hold a crucial meeting in Frankfurt.
Reports suggest that the ECB might extend its 1.1 trillion-euro ($1.2 trillion) stimulus program, which has been in place for the past six months, in an attempt to boost the bloc’s modest recovery. The program, which entails the ECB and national central banks of the 19 eurozone nations buying 60 billion euros ($67 billion) of government and corporate bonds every month, is currently scheduled to stay in place until September 2016.
During the meeting, ECB policymakers are also expected to discuss the region’s tepid economic growth -- the eurozone grew at a less-than-expected quarterly rate of 0.3 percent in the April-June period -- and the impact of China’s economic slowdown on European markets, which on Tuesday, continued to extend losses after the Asian nation’s weak PMI figures.
The pan-European STOXX 600 traded 2.2 percent lower in mid-morning trade Tuesday after tumbling nearly 3 percent at the open. London’s FTSE 100 was down 2.1 percent, Germany’s DAX was 2.3 percent in the red and France’s CAC 40 was trading down 2 percent.
U.S. markets are also expected to open in the red Tuesday, with the main stock index futures, including the Dow Jones and S&P 500, down by about 2 percent at 7.15 a.m. EDT.
BRUSSELS (Reuters) - U.S. law firm and class action specialist Hausfeld launched a platform on Tuesday to help pursue claims against Google, posing a potential headache for the world's No. 1 Internet search engine amid its regulatory troubles in Europe.
Hausfeld has coordinated various high-profile class action cases, including for companies affected by an air cargo pricing cartel, investors impacted by currency-rigging by banks and firms fighting fees levied by MasterCard and Visa Europe.
The law firm said the Google Redress & Integrity Platform (GRIP) is aimed at those affected by alleged anti-competitive behavior by Google in Europe.
It said the platform would build on the European Commission's April charge sheet, which accuses Google of unfairly promoting its own shopping service to the disadvantage of rivals.
"GRIP offers corporations, consumers and other entities harmed by Google's anti-competitive business practices in Europe a mechanism to evaluate their potential claims," Michael Hausfeld, chairman ofHausfeld, said in a statement.
Google, which has criticized the EU accusations as unfounded and incorrect, declined to comment on GRIP.
Public affairs consultancy Avisa Partners, which is helping French Internet search firm 1plusV in its EU complaint against Google, will jointly manage the platform.
Update as of 6 a.m. EDT: The S&P BSE Sensex, India's benchmark stock index, recovered some ground to end the day down 2.23 percent Tuesday as investor sentiment was weighed down by concerns about a slowing China and data released by the Indian government Monday showed lower-than-expected quarterly growth in the Indian economy. The Nifty index ended the day down 2.33 percent.
Update as of 4:55 a.m. EDT: The S&P BSE Sensex, India's benchmark stock index, had fallen nearly 700 points, or 2.5 percent, while the Nifty stock index had fallen 2.62 percent by Tuesday afternoon.
Original story:
India’s Sensex -- the country’s benchmark stock index -- shed over 450 points during Tuesday’s trade, a day after government figures revealed that the country’s economy grew at a less-than-expected rate in the April-June quarter. The 50-share Nifty index was trading down 1.7 percent.
On Monday, the Sensex ended the month down 6.5 percent -- its steepest monthly decline since November 2011. GDP data released Monday showed that the Indian economy expanded at an annual rate of 7 percent in the April-June quarter, slower than the 7.5 percent recorded in the previous quarter, and below the 7.4 percent estimate by Reuters and Bloomberg.
Sluggish demand from India’s trading partners and falling exports -- despite a weak rupee -- are believed to have weakened the country’s economic growth. The rupee was trading at 66.54 per dollar Tuesday.
Indian shares also faced downward pressure as weakness in the Chinese economy kept investors away from Asian markets. Earlier on Tuesday, the official Purchasing Managers’ Index (PMI) -- a gauge of the economic health of a country’s manufacturing sector -- indicated a slowdown in China’s manufacturing sector. The PMI fell to 49.7 in August from the previous month's 50.
“Investors do not particularly care about the specifics of individual markets in situations of extreme panic and anxiety,” Sanjeev Prasad, senior executive director at brokerage Kotak Institutional Equities, told the Wall Street Journal.
The Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) announced Tuesday that it will continue to hold interest rates at a record low of 2 percent. The decision to hold the cash rate steady -- which was widely expected -- comes amid turmoil in the global economy triggered by China’s decision to devalue the yuan last month.
In its statement released Tuesday, the country’s central bank said that Australia’s terms of trade -- the value of a country’s exports relative to its imports -- were falling and that global financial conditions remain “very accommodative.”
“The global economy is expanding at a moderate pace, with some further softening in conditions in China and East Asia of late, but stronger U.S. growth. Key commodity prices are much lower than a year ago, in part reflecting increased supply, including from Australia,” the bank said, in the statement. “In such circumstances, monetary policy needs to be accommodative. Low interest rates are acting to support borrowing and spending.”
Last month’s bloodbath in the Chinese markets triggered massive sell-offs in most Asian economies as jittery investors rushed to get rid of assets perceived as risky. In Australia, the S&P ASX 200 index posted its worst monthly performance since 2008 -- dropping by over 8.5 percent.
The Australian dollar, which recently hit a six-year low -- dropping below 75 U.S. cents -- was trading slightly higher at 71.5 U.S. cents after the central bank announcement. In the statement, the central bank said that the currency is “adjusting to significant declines in key commodity prices.”
The weak Australian dollar and the already-low cost of credit are expected to fuel investment, spending and exports, which have been hit by the slowdown in the Chinese economy and a weakening yuan.
The RBA had last cut rates in May, when it brought the cash rate down by 0.25 percent in response to sharp falls in commodity prices.
SHANGHAI — Latest official figures on China’s manufacturing output have confirmed the continuing slowdown in the nation’s economic growth, prompting further falls on Asian stock markets on Tuesday morning. Chinese government figures showed that the official Purchasing Manager’s Index (PMI) fell to 49.7 in August, compared to 50 in July -- its lowest level since August 2012. (A figure below fifty on the index indicates that demand is contracting.)
New orders also fell, to 49.7 from 49.9, while export orders also fell, to 47.7, according to figures from China’s National Bureau of Statistics. The figures come against a backdrop of falling export orders – down 8.3 percent in July – which contributed to the Chinese government’s decision to devalue its currency in August, causing global anxiety about the state of China’s economy.
Zhang Liqun, an economist at the Development Research Centre of China's cabinet, the State Council, said the PMI fall reflected “sustained downward pressures” on China’s economy. He said the fall in new orders and export orders showed “shrinking demand,” while the factory output figures showed that “firms' confidence has been eroded,” with companies reducing the size of their inventories, the South China Morning Post reported.
The Independent Caixin/Markit China Manufacturing PMI index (formerly, the HSBC PMI Index), meanwhile, as usual came in significantly lower, at 47.3, its lowest level since March 2009 – though slightly higher than the 'flash' estimate two weeks ago of 47.1, which contributed to last week’s falls on China’s stock market. The index measures the performance of a number of private sector, and small and medium enterprises, and the fall indicated “continued weak demand in the markets for goods and factors of production," according to Caixin’s Chief Economist He Xin.
China’s stock markets, which fell on Monday after rising late last week, were down again on the news. The main Shanghai Composite Index fell more than 4 percent in early trading, before recovering to close just over 1.2 percent lower, at 3,166. The secondary Shenzhen Composite Index, however, fell sharply, losing 4.6 percent, while the volatile ChiNext Index for high-tech stocks was down 5.4 percent.
Hong Kong's Hang Seng Index also fell, by 2.2 percent, while Singapore’s Straits Times Index was down 1.3 percent. Anxiety about China’s economy, along with concern about a possible U.S. interest rate rise, also affected sentiment in Tokyo, where the Nikkei fell more than 3.8 percent. South Korea’s KOSPI Index also closed lower, losing 1.4 percent, while in Australia the ASX 200 fell by some 2.2 percent.
Significantly, China’s PMI data suggested that “both domestic and external demand remains weak,” Li-Gang Liu, chief economist for Greater China at ANZ Bank, said in a note sent to International Business Times. Domestic consumption is seen by China’s government as a key driver of economic growth, amid the slowdown in global demand for the country’s manufactured goods. 
Growth in China’s service sector, which has provided the main bright spot for the country’s economy this year, also appears to be slowing, with non-manufacturing PMI falling to 53.4, from 53.9 in July, according to official figures, while new orders for the sector were down to 49.6 from 50.1. 
The recent falls in China’s stock market, which boomed in the first half of the year, may be one reason for the slowdown in service sector growth, according to a new report by investment bank Goldman Sachs, which said that financial services made up 0.5 percentage points of the 7 percent GDP growth posted in each of this year’s first two quarters.
Based on China’s “very weak growth” for the first half of this year, Goldman Sachs has lowered its estimate of the country’s GDP growth next year from 6.7 percent to 6.4 percent, though it is sticking to its prediction of 6.8 percent for 2015 as a whole. China had set a target of “about 7 percent” for the year as a whole, though officials have acknowledged that reaching this figure could be a tough task.
ANZ's Liu, meanwhile, said the bank was revising its estimate of China's third quarter growth down to 6.4 percent following the PMI results -- noting that industrial production grew only 6.3 percent from January-July, compared to 8.3 percent in the same period the previous year. However, he said GDP growth could rebound to 6.8 percent in the final quarter of the year, as a result of government's easing measures. 
Recent government moves to cut interest rates and allow banks to lend a high proportion of their assets to businesses would give the economy a short-term boost, Liu said. However, he said China would need further rate cuts to boost lending, while authorities should also make it easier for businesses to issue corporate bonds, since bond market interest rates remain lower than real bank lending rates.
China’s Premier Li Keqiang has said that China’s economy is growing within an “appropriate" range. But he has acknowledged that China needs “industrial restructuring” to enhance creativity. The government is also seeking to boost other sectors of the economy, including the property market. On Tuesday, it announced it was reducing the minimum down payment for citizens using state housing funds to buy second homes from 30 percent to 20 percent. State media said this would encourage more purchases of second homes, as the government seeks to ensure that this year's rebound in the real estate sector does not slow down.
U.S. crude oil prices rallied for a third straight day Monday, soaring more than 27 percent in the last three trading sessions to record their biggest three-day rally since 1990. Oil rose above $49 a barrel after data showed crude output was lower than previously expected, as the Energy Information Administration reported Monday.
The gains also helped global oil prices erase losses made in August, with crude snapping three straight months of declines. Oil has bounced back after posting six-and-a-half-year lows earlier this month as global markets try to recover losses following last week’s rout.
West Texas Intermediate crude, the benchmark for U.S. oil prices, jumped 8.8 percent to $49.20 per barrel for October delivery on the New York Mercantile Exchange. On the London ICE Futures Exchange, Brent crude, the global benchmark for oil prices, added 7.4 percent to $53.80.
The rise in oil prices helped boost the S&P 500 energy sector Monday, adding more than 1 percent. The gains were led by Consol Energy Inc. (NYSE:CNX), Chesapeake Energy Corporation (NYSE:CHK) and Newfield Exploration Co. (NYSE:NFX), which all added more than 5 percent. 
U.S. crude oil production for the first six months of 2015 averaged 9.4 million barrels per day, while production in June came in at 9.3 million barrels per day, a decrease of approximately 100,000 barrels from the revised May figure, EIA estimates.
Crude also received a boost after the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries said it “stands ready to talk to all other producers,” according to its monthly bulletin. “Today’s continuing pressure on prices, brought about by higher crude production, coupled with market speculation, remains a cause for concern for OPEC and its members — indeed for all stakeholders in the industry,” OPEC said in the report.
Separate data released Friday showed U.S. oil rigs rose by 1 from last week to 675, according to Baker Hughes data. However, oil rigs still remain down 900 from last year. In 2014, U.S. oil rigs totaled 1,564.
U.S. oil prices snapped an eighth straight weekly decline last week after recording their longest weekly losing streak in nearly 30 years during the prior week ending Aug. 21.
President Barack Obama this week will press for dramatic action to fight climate change during a trip to Alaska -- a state whose economy relies heavily on oil and gas. With few alternative industries, Alaska would see its budget evaporate if the world swiftly shifted away from carbon-intensive fossil fuels in favor of cleaner options for transportation and electricity.
Alaska already is suffering significant budget woes due to the plunge in oil prices, which have dropped from over $100 a barrel last year to around $40 a barrel. The money Alaska collects from oil-and-gas taxes and revenues will now supply only about 75 percent of the state’s unrestricted budget revenue, down from nearly 90 percent in previous years, the Alaska Department of Revenue reported this spring.
Given Alaska’s deep dependence on oil and gas, some state leaders are urging Obama to broaden his focus beyond climate change during his three-day visit. “Climate change must not be used as an excuse to deprive Alaskans of our best economic prospects,” Sen. Lisa Murkowski, a Republican, wrote in an Aug. 21 letter to Obama.
Climate scientists warn the bulk of the world’s untapped coal, oil and natural gas reserves must remain in the ground to avoid the most catastrophic effects of climate change, including sea level rise, crippling drought and intensifying storms. Rising global temperatures already are taking a toll on Alaska, where the Exit Glacier is retreating, powerful waves are pummeling coastal villages and rampant wildfires are scorching the land.
Workers from the Matanuska Electric Association prepare to shut down power on the Parks Highway as an out-of-control wildfire burns near Willow, Alaska, June 14, 2015. Photo: Reuters/Mat-Su Borough/Stefan Hinman/Handout
At a State Department climate conference in Anchorage on Monday, Obama will urge the U.S. and other nations to make ambitious commitments to reducing greenhouse gas emissions. Nearly 200 countries are on track to sign a global climate treaty in December at a United Nations conference in Paris. If successful, the accord will accelerate the world’s transition toward cleaner-burning energy supplies, including wind and solar power, electric cars, biofuels, hybrid engines and other lower-carbon alternatives.
Alaska reaped nearly $5.7 billion in total petroleum revenues in fiscal year 2014, including from property and production taxes, royalties and rent and interest payments, according to its revenue department. Those revenues accounted for 88 percent of all unrestricted revenues -- the funds without a specific spending purpose -- and roughly one-third of all state revenues, which totaled $17.2 billion that year.
Alaska has no state sales tax or income tax, leaving it particularly reliant on oil-and-gas revenues to pay for critical services such as road repairs and state troopers. The state’s second-largest sector is the federal government, which provided Alaska $2.5 billion in revenues in fiscal year 2014, or about 15 percent of the state total. Attempts to diversify the economy, whether by expanding tourism, boosting trade or growing the fishing sector, have so far failed to take root.
Even if the world doesn’t suddenly shift away from oil, Alaska’s oil-dependent economy already is in trouble. The plunge in oil prices formed a $3 billion hole in the state’s fiscal 2016 budget. Lawmakers plugged the gap with rainy day dollars, but the government still cut spending by 8 percent, prompting hundreds of layoffs in public sector jobs, cutbacks in firefighting operations and state trooper units, and reduced ferry service to remote communities.
“This is Alaska’s new reality,” Gov. Bill Walker told his fellow Alaskans in a June op-ed detailing the budget plan.
Oil production on the Alaska North Slope (ANS) is projected to continue declining through 2023. Photo: Alaska Department of Revenue
Alaska’s revenue department estimates it needs oil prices at above $115 a barrel to keep states revenues at around fiscal 2014 levels. Yet the most optimistic oil industry forecasts put prices around $60 to $80 a barrel this year.
On top of that, Alaska’s crude oil and natural gas reserves are dwindling after decades of production. The cheapest, easiest-to-reach reserves are shrinking, leaving behind more difficult, costlier supplies in physically challenging locations. In the North Slope, a major oil region in the state, production is expected to fall from 508,000 barrels per day in fiscal 2014 to 313,000 barrels per day by 2024, according to state forecasts.
Low oil prices and declining petroleum reserves will likely pose a greater challenge to the Alaskan government than global policies to curb fossil fuel use -- which as of now exist mainly as proposals, not actual regulations, said Michael Tubman, director of outreach at the Center for Climate and Energy Solutions in Washington, who previously worked in the Alaska state government for three administrations.
He noted that, despite efforts to fight climate change, petroleum is still expected to play a significant role in fueling the world’s airplanes, cars, trucks and ships in coming decades -- even as vehicles become more fuel-efficient and alternative fuel use climbs. By 2030, oil is projected to account for 89 percent of fuel used in transportation, BP Plc analysts found in a 2013 energy report.
“The state budget has always been challenged by the boom-and-bust nature of the oil market,” Tubman said. “The danger seems to be more that the state economy, when not diversified, has bigger risks from the commodity cycle” than the threat of climate policies.
Rarely, if ever, has a ruling from the National Labor Relations Board provoked such intrigue. Last week, in a case that stemmed from a dispute at a major California-based recycling firm called Browning-Ferris Industries, the NLRB broadened its standard for what qualifies as a “joint employer” -- a move that could put corporations on the hook along with their subcontractors and franchisees for violations of labor law.
Unions are praising the decision as a levelheaded response to a rapidly evolving employment landscape. But businesses are blasting the move as another case of unwarranted government overreach that could stifle growth. In alarmist language typical of the ruling’s most fervent critics, the Wall Street Journal editorial board lamented that the new standard “upends thousands of business relationships” and promises to “harm diverse industries in every state.”
Is that really the case? Sifting through the lofty rhetoric on both sides, International Business Times explains what the decision really means.
What did Browning-Ferris actually do? Specifically, the NLRB was deciding whether a union that represents the employees of a waste management subcontractor also had rights to represent employees at the larger parent company. The agency agreed with the union. As it made the ruling, it revisited its standard of what constitutes a “joint employer.” The agency tossed out the old one -- which Reagan administration appointees had tightened in the early 1980s -- and came up with a looser, more expansive version.
The new standard no longer requires joint employers to exert “direct” control over their workers; “indirect” control suffices. It also does not require that joint employers actually exercise that control; the potential to do so is enough.
Is this the end of subcontracting, the death of the franchise model? No. The ruling does not compel businesses to stop using subcontractors or franchisees. It does, however, increase the likelihood that parent companies can be held liable for labor violations committed by their partners further down the contracting chain.
What kind of violations could companies be on the hook for? Violations of the National Labor Relations Act, which covers most employees in the private sector. These can be anything from bosses interfering with free and fair union elections to retaliating against employees who speak out about scheduling practices. The NLRB, which oversees the act, receives these sorts of complaints, often known as “unfair labor practices,” on a regular basis. They aren’t the same thing as minimum wage violations -- say, when a company refuses to pay mandatory overtime. But these violations can also come with monetary penalties, like compensation for employees found to be illegally fired or demoted.
What about the unionization part? Under the agency’s old “joint employer” standard, unions had limited bargaining rights across the contracting chain. Now organizers have stronger grounds before the NLRB to organize unions that could, in theory, represent workers at both the parent company and subcontractors. In such cases, employees would be bargaining directly with the larger company, which often has more financial means than any of its subcontractors. For example, a union that represents drivers at a bus firm contracted out by Apple and bargains only with the shuttle company might now, under the NLRB ruling, have stronger grounds to demand a seat at the negotiating table with the tech firm itself. That’s a boon to workers.
Conventional wisdom says the ruling doesn’t just benefit unionized workers. It also gives a boost to the unorganized workers toiling away at subcontractors, since the larger employers want to avoid the risk of racking up unfair labor practice charges. 
Wait, so that’s it? Since the NLRB is such an important federal agency, observers suspect that others like the Department of Labor -- which includes the Occupational Safety and Health Administration and the Mine Safety and Health Administration -- could follow suit.
Is this going to lead to mass unionization at fast-food corporations and companies with subcontractors? Union organizing campaigns tend to be grueling, complicated endeavors. No matter how organizers respond to Browning-Ferris, the impact won’t be immediately visible. Still, the ruling could trigger a spike in efforts to broaden the reach of existing unions across contracting chains; it also could see the creation of new unions with large bargaining units previously unlikely to withstand scrutiny at the NLRB.
Unions historically have been reluctant to organize individual fast-food franchisees, in part out of fear that management could simply close any successfully unionized stores without real legal consequence. The new standard should help assuage that concern, since such a closure now runs a greater risk of putting corporate headquarters in the crosshairs of the NLRB. (Still, this sort of retaliation is hard to prove. Earlier this year, when Walmart closed five stores for “plumbing issues,” including one in California that was known as a bastion of protest, workers complained to the NLRB, accusing the company of retaliation. Walmart fiercely denies that charge and the case remains outstanding.)
What does this mean for the Fight for 15? Unionization in the traditional sense remains far off. Even if fast-food corporations were to share employment responsibility with their franchisees, it’s hard to imagine a majority of McDonald’s workers across the country signing union cards and voting for union representation.
But it’s still a big win for the Fight for 15 movement, which is funded heavily by the Service Employees International Union. One of the group’s aims has been to get fast-food companies to sit down with workers at the bargaining table and negotiate some type of agreement that includes advances for employees. In the past, corporations have argued that activists should take up any grievances they have -- over pay, over scheduling, over alleged retaliation -- with individual franchisees. But as the companies face more legal liability, they could feel more pressure to take labor’s demands seriously. (McDonald's already is defending itself against landmark charges of unfair labor practices filed jointly against the corporation and its franchisees. These sorts of complaints could become more common.)
Is the new standard here to stay? The ruling likely will be appealed. There’s also the possibility that a future Republican-controlled NLRB -- say, one serving under a President Trump or Walker -- could revise the standard.
Just as global automakers begin upping the number of cars they’re producing in China, the world’s largest auto market is losing momentum as the country’s economic growth slows to a pace unseen in more than 20 years. And now that automakers are about to increase their production capacities by millions of cars over the next year, the question is how will they adjust to the downturn.
“In 2010 we saw massive capacity increases in pretty much every industry in China,” said Steven Szakaly, chief economist for the National Automobile Dealers Association, a U.S. trade group. “But by 2012 it was starting to become clear that China was underutilizing this buildup, and now we’re seeing the deep economic adjustments in China that automakers are confronting.”
China’s car sales plummeted 7.1 percent last month, a 17-year low, and sales barely grew in the first seven months of the year, by 0.4 percent, according to the China Association of Automobile Manufacturers (CAAM). Annual growth would be lucky to hit the CAAM’s 3 percent forecast this year, which would be less than half the growth in China new-auto sales in 2014. This doesn’t bode well for an industry that has become so reliant on China, which bought a fourth of the world’s new cars and SUVs last year.
Over the past year alone, major global car companies have either opened or broken ground on new factories.
In May, Volkswagen Group, the largest foreign car company in the Chinese market, opened its new $194 million factory in Changsha with its local partner SAIC Motor, China’s largest carmaker. Ford Motor’s $760 million plant in Hangzhou, Ford’s sixth Chinese factory, just went online in March to build the Ford Edge crossover under partnership with Changan Automobile. General Motors and SAIC are about to begin making Cadillacs while Renault, Peugeot, Hyundai and Fiat Chrysler all have expansion plans in the works. Even Tesla Motors, a tiny automaker with immense growth plans, is depending heavily on near-term Chinese demand for its six-figure luxury electric cars.
After 16 years of high-pace growth in China, the situation has turned “grim” in 2015, SAIC said last week in its earning statement, echoing sentiments across the industry that has become so reliant on China while other world markets like Europe and Brazil have been faltering.
A man checks an imported car parked in the free trade port area in Qingdao, Shandong province, Aug. 19, 2015. Foreign automakers in China have to address the issue of making too many cars in a slowing market. One option could be exporting more cars from China to other markets.  Photo: STR/AFP/Getty Images
“There’s not an auto company that’s not having these discussions as we speak,” John Hoffecker, a vice chairman at consulting firm AlixPartners, told Automotive News. “How long does this downturn last, and is it sustained? What will happen to pricing and will it come back? How long will the yuan stay down? Do we cut capacity?”
Cutting capacity – that is to say cutting jobs and slowing or closing factories – is certainly an option, but by how much is the question. Industry watchers and automakers know that in the long term China will continue to be one of the world’s most important automotive markets.
Another possibility is to export the extra capacity, especially to other destinations in Asia.
“The global automakers could certainly do that because the quality of the product coming out of China is suitable for other markets,” said John Humphrey, senior vice president of global automotive operations at J.D. Power and Associates. “They could go ahead and export vehicles from China, and right now there’s very little of that going on.”
Already car companies have been positioning China to become a major Eastern manufacturing base after carefully cultivating partnerships with local manufacturers. GM wants to export Chevrolet Sail compacts to South America while Ford is planning to send the Edge from China to other Asian markets, and even the U.S.
But replying on exports from China to help absorb excess car-making depends on how deeply and widely China’s downturn will impact other markets. If Chinese buyers dip into a prolonged period of low new-car demand, the same could happen in other markets in Asia and elsewhere. And already-plunging commodities prices spurred by China’s curbed appetite and a flight of investments out of emerging markets are slowing economic activity across Asia and elsewhere. If cars aren’t selling in China, they might not sell in Indonesia or the Philippines either.
Russian President Vladimir Putin and his Venezuelan counterpart, Nicolas Maduro, were set to discuss solutions for stabilizing the price of oil in meetings to take place in China Wednesday and Thursday, a Kremlin aide told Reuters Monday. Both nations are significant producers of oil, and Yury Ushakov said the discussions of "possible mutual steps" were part of Russia's continuing cooperation with the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC).
Oil prices have been dropping steadily for months and sank to a six-year low Aug. 24. As the Chinese stock market tumbled and fears of diminishing Chinese demand caused global sell-offs and market dips around the world, the price of crude oil plunged to less than $45 per barrel.
"Today's continuing pressure on prices, brought about by higher crude production, coupled with market speculation, remains a cause for concern for OPEC and its members -- indeed for all stakeholders in the industry," OPEC said in its most recent bulletin. Economists and oil producers alike have criticized the organization's hands-off approach to the price drop, calling on authorities to institute a production cap to prevent prices from falling further.
Venezuela is one of the five founding nations of OPEC and is the only founding nation outside of the Middle East. Russia has been a major producer of oil though not a member of OPEC, and its production average of 10 million barrels per day has prompted a keen interest in Moscow in stabilizing oil prices.
#Putin to Discuss #Stabilization of #GlobalOilPrices With #Maduro http://t.co/A7oDdiHZzW
— Alexandr Karaul'nyh (@Alex_Karaulnyh) August 31, 2015
Maduro has additional ties to the fate of the Chinese economy as he borrowed $5 billion from the nation in April to stimulate Venezuela's recession-stricken economy.
“Venezuela is genuinely concerned that if no action is taken prices are going to drop further,” an OPEC delegate told the Wall Street Journal Thursday. “They also understand that OPEC alone cannot help much and there is a need for cooperation with producers outside OPEC, mainly Russia.”
Calling his plan “too big to ignore," Fiat Chrysler Automobiles CEO Sergio Marchionne once again has asked General Motors to consider his proposal to merge FCA with GM. The outspoken Canadian-Italian executive said the move would generate billions of dollars' worth of efficiencies in an industry that's wasting cash on research and development, but so far GM has declined to even meet with him on the issue. 
"I've offered to sit down with them [GM executives] and take them through the numbers," said Marchionne in an extensive interview published Sunday evening on the website of Automotive News. "They won't listen. And that kind of abject refusal to engage ... the capital markets won't understand why you are rejecting the discussion.”
Marchionne, who orchestrated the merger of Fiat SpA and Chrysler Group in the wake of Chrysler’s 2009 bankruptcy that cost the U.S. Treasury nearly $3 billion, insists the merger makes sense. He claims the combined company would generate between $28 billion and $30 billion in annual revenue before taxes and other expenses, more than the combined total of nearly $22 billion GM and FCA generated last year as separate companies.
General Motors CEO Mary Barra holds a media briefing prior to the start of the 2015 GM Annual Meeting of Stockholders at GM world headquarters in Detroit June 9, 2015. Barra has said numerous times this year that GM doesn’t need to merge with Fiat Chrysler Automobiles and has declined to meet Fiat Chrysler CEO Sergio Marchionne for the first time if the meeting is aimed at discussing merger talks.  Photo: Bill Pugliano/Getty Images  Marchionne, widely credited with pulling Fiat out of economic troubles in 2004, has been beating the drum for much of the past year over the need for consolidation in the global automotive industry. In a 25-page manifesto released earlier this year titled “Confessions of a Capital Junkie,” Marchionne argues that there are too many automakers in the world spending too much money competing against each other.
New car-connectivity and autonomous driving technologies and stricter emissions standards are putting pressure on automakers to invest more, driving down profitability, he says. The report was widely perceived to be an invitation by FCA to enter into merger talks. The automaker ranks at the bottom of the global car manufacturers in the amount of cash it generates compared to its debt, which makes Marchionne’s industrywide call appear more like a bid for self-preservation.
Earlier this year, GM’s board rejected Marchionne’s initial merger proposal, but the executive has continued to sell his idea to GM investors in an effort to force GM to the negotiating table. But GM’s stance has been clear: It doesn’t need to absorb its rival in order to become more efficient. In June, GM CEO Mary Barra insisted that her company needs needed to improve efficiencies by “merging with ourselves.” GM’s resistance to Marchionne’s marriage proposal is so strong that in March Barra declined an invitation to meet the FCA boss for the first time because the meeting was proposed as a way of discussing merger talks.
When asked by Automotive News if all of this was headed toward some attempt at a hostile takeover of GM – which is valued at more than $46 billion compared to FCA’s less than $19 billion – Marchionne replied in a matter that characterizes the outspoken CEO."Not hostile," he said. "There are varying degrees of hugs. I can hug you nicely, I can hug you tightly, I can hug you like a bear, I can really hug you. Everything starts with physical contact. Then it can degrade, but it starts with physical contact."
But so far, GM has declined this physical contact.
Parents often feel as if the advice they offer goes in one ear and out the other, but that shouldn’t stop them from talking about alcohol with kids as young as 9 years old, according to the nation’s leading group of pediatricians. 
On Monday, the American Academy of Pediatrics published tips for parents to talk to children about alcohol and outlined strategies for picking up on risky behaviors -- such as drinking -- before it becomes a habit. The group also urged clinicians to ask every teenager they treat about alcohol use and to be on the lookout for at-risk adolescents. 
The recommendations come at a time when rates of drinking among high schoolers and children at all grade levels have steadily dropped for several years. In 2014, 37 percent of high school seniors reported drinking in the past month, down from 44 percent in 2009, according to a long-term study of drug use in teens and kids by University of Michigan. 
Still, one in three children begin drinking by the end of the eighth grade, and about 79 percent of 12th-graders have tried alcohol. About 80 percent of teenagers say parents – not friends or advertisements – have the biggest influence over them when it comes time to decide whether or not to take that first sip of alcohol. 
Given these trends, parents should talk with children as young as 9 years old about the dangers of drinking alcohol, the group says. Alcohol use has been linked to car accidents, homicides and suicides, which are the leading causes of death and serious injury among adolescents.
Parents who delay the conversation too long may also put their child at risk for other ill effects associated with over-consumption, such as nausea, vomiting and depression. Teens who drink are more likely to make risky decisions and develop alcohol dependence in the future. They may suffer long-term consequences such as liver disease as a result.
The group adds that parents should talk with kids about how to decline a drink and tell them that they will always pick them up if they ever need to leave a party where alcohol is present. 
The academy says parents don’t need to give up alcohol completely for their children's sake but should take care to model responsible drinking if they do indulge. For teens, though, the group takes a hard line -- don’t let them drink, even under a parent's supervision at home. 
The price of oil fell below $49 a barrel Monday amid continued concerns over China’s economy faltering. Oil had its largest two-day rally in six years last week, but overall was heading for its fourth straight monthly decline, reports said.
As of 9:40 a.m. EDT, Brent crude oil, the global benchmark, rose to $49.24 a barrel according to the Nasdaq. Last week, the Brent benchmark went up by 10 percent, but despite this, prices remain at a low not seen since 2009. Volume was expected to stay low Monday due to a holiday in the United Kingdom.
An analyst told Reuters that the $50-per-barrel mark is proving hard to surpass on the market. “Volatility was high last week, so now we’re seeing some retracement - $50 is proving to be a resistance level,” said Olivier Jakob, analyst at Petromatrix. “It is still a market which is very well supplied.”
In 2014, oil hit over $100 a barrel. Now, with oil dipping below $50, one of the major problems facing the market is the current excess supply, with the potential of even more coming onto the market following negotiations about lifting sanctions against oil-producing nation Iran last month. The Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries said there is an oversupply on the market exceeding 2 million barrels per day. The oversupply stems from high output from Saudi Arabia and Iraq.
China’s currency devaluation last week, which set off a 1,000-point drop on the stock market last Monday before recovering, has also triggered fears about a larger slowdown in economic growth both in the country and around the globe. One possible boost to the market Monday was the release of a U.S. government report on domestic oil production for the first half of 2015. The report showed that U.S. output was much lower than expected – down by as much as 130,000 barrels per day.
The large drop in oil prices has a significant impact on oil-producing nations that depend on oil staying above a certain price to ensure their economies run smoothly, including Russia, Venezuela, Nigeria and Brazil.
Blue Bell Creameries' ice cream is back after a deadly outbreak of listeria bacteria shuttered production and sparked a nationwide recall of the Texas-based company's products. Flavors hit shelves in some stores in Texas and Alabama Monday, more than four months after the company in April recalled all of its ice cream, frozen yogurt and other iced treats due to their possible contamination with the lethal bacteria.
Blue Bell's ice cream has been re-introduced in stores in Houston, Brenham and Austin, Texas, and in Birmingham and Montgomery, Alabama, USA Today reported. Four more phases of Blue Bell's reintroduction to American palettes are scheduled: first in parts of Texas and Oklahoma, then areas of Louisiana and finally the remaining 11 states where Blue Bell is sold.
On sale for 30 minutes and already re-stocking. #BlueBell #RockyRoadTrip pic.twitter.com/nXLczdqyfM
&mdash; Chance Horner (@chancehorner) August 31, 2015
 
In June, the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) concluded its investigation into the outbreak of listeria monocytogenes in Blue Bell's products, which were linked to three deaths and seven illnesses. In late April, after a March recall of eight products expanded to include all Blue Bell products, the company announced it would go on an "intensive cleaning program" and temporarily closed production plants in Texas and Oklahoma.
Blue Bell announced last week the first four flavors it planned to reintroduce. The company said in April that when it began production once again, "it will be limited and phased in over time." Flavors in production now are vanilla, Dutch chocolate, cookies 'n cream and The Great Divide.
Our final flavor this week is The Great Divide - a combination of our Homemade Vanilla and rich,… https://t.co/aCn5bq9lHP
&mdash; Blue Bell Ice Cream (@ILoveBlueBell) August 27, 2015
 
The recall hit Blue Bell Creameries hard, with CEO and President Paul Kruse announcing in May that it had been forced to lay off 750 full-time and 700 part-time workers and furlough 1,400 workers in what was an "agonizing decision." 
Listeria bacteria thrive in cold environments like ice cream. The bacteria cause the disease listeriosis, which is especially dangerous for people with weakened immune systems, such as the pregnant or the elderly. 
This story was updated at 4 p.m. EDT:
U.S. stocks closed lower Monday, with all three major indexes posting losses of more than 6 percent in August, marking their worst month in years. The Dow Jones Industrial Average struggled to stay out of correction territory after global shares in Asia saw another volatile trading session.
After falling as much as 188 points following the opening bell, the Dow closed roughly 115 points lower. The Standard & Poor's 500 index lost around 1 percent, recording its worst monthly decline since 2012.
In the midst of uncertainty surrounding China's economic slowdown, Wall Street is looking ahead to Friday's employment report, which could provide more clues as to the timing of the Federal Reserve's inevitable hike in interest rates.
The Dow Jones Industrial Average (INDEXDJX:.DJI) dropped 114.98 points, or 0.7 percent, to close at 16,528.03. The Standard & Poor's 500 index (INDEXSP:.INX) lost 16.69 points, or 0.84 percent, to end at 1,972.18. And the Nasdaq composite (INDEXNASDAQ:.IXIC) fell 51.82 points, or 1.07 percent, to finish at 4,776.51.
For the month, the Dow has lost 1,164 points, or 6.6 percent, and the S&P 500 has lost 132 points, or 6.3 percent. The Nasdaq has lost 353 points, or nearly 7 percent. 
Healthcare company Merck & Co. Inc. (NYSE:MRK) led the Dow lower, losing nearly 3 percent. 
Nine of the 10 sectors in the S&P 500 closed lower, led by a nearly 2 percent drop in healthcare stocks while utilities fell about 1.6 percent. Energy was the only gainer, reversing early losses to close more than 1 percent higher. The sector briefly fell more than 2 percent in morning trading after global oil prices fell to less than $49 a barrel.
However, oil prices reversed early losses to close higher after data showed U.S. crude output was lower than previously expected, the U.S. Energy Information Administration said Monday. The gains helped global oil prices erase losses made in August, with crude on course to snap three straight months of declines.
Following the EIA report, West Texas Intermediate (WTI) crude, the benchmark for U.S. oil prices, jumped 8.8 percent to $49.20 per barrel for October delivery on the New York Mercantile Exchange. On the London ICE Futures Exchange, Brent crude, the global benchmark for oil prices, added 7.4 percent to $53.80.
The U.S. dollar traded slightly lower against major world currencies, with the euro above $1.12 and the Japanese yen trading around 121 yen against the greenback.
Meanwhile, Treasury yields edged higher, with the 10-year Treasury yield near 2.21 percent. The rise in yields pushed interest rate sensitive sectors lower, as utilities fell 1.6 percent. 
The Shanghai Composite closed Monday’s trading session down 0.8 percent after experiencing a bout of volatility, at one point losing more than 4 percent. The index has lost about 12 percent for the month, and nearly 40 percent since mid-June despite repeated and unprecedented measures by the government to shore up the market.
Germany's Dax and the French CAC 40 lost 0.4 percent and 0.5 percent, respectively. European stocks were on track for their biggest monthly loss in four years.
A robust jobs report for August could offer further evidence the U.S. economy is on a strong enough footing to absorb the impact of a Federal Reserve interest rate hike this year. Although many economists had expected the Fed to change its monetary policy stance in September, some have pushed out their expectation for beyond this year in light of the recent turmoil in global markets.
Economists forecast U.S. employers created 220,000 nonfarm payrolls in July, with unemployment to tick down to 5.2 percent, according to analysts polled by Thomson Reuters.
Earlier this month, the financial markets reacted with mixed emotions to the July numbers because the report didn’t completely solidify whether the Fed would actually hike rates in September or hold off until later.
After Friday's jobs report, there is just one more monthly unemployment reading ahead of the Federal Reserve’s next meeting, set for Sept. 16-17.
Sudanese President Omar Hassan al-Bashir began a four-day visit to China Monday, despite court orders against his travel and a warrant for his arrest issued by the International Criminal Court. His visit comes on the heels of a Chinese stock market downturn that could spell greater troubles for Sudan's already unstable economic and political situation.
The ICC's indictment of Bashir was a ploy by Europe, Sudanese foreign minister Ibrahim Ghandour told Voice of America Sunday, and the rest of the international community rejected the calls for his arrest. In 2010, the ICC indicted Bashir on charges of genocide, war crimes and crimes against humanity following conflict in Darfur, Sudan. 
Ghandour said China had invited Bashir to visit this month and that during the visit the president would discuss bilateral relations and meet expatriate Sudanese living in China as well as Chinese businessmen with investments in Sudan. “Sudan is on the list of the top countries in Africa that are economically dealing with China," Ghandour said. "China supported Sudan in its very dark days when Sudan was let down by the U.S., including extracting Sudanese oil. China helps Sudan in oil refinery and other economic issues," he added.
 
#Sudan&#39;s #OmaralBashir expected to travel to China for 4day visit,defying international warrant for his arrest pic.twitter.com/OS6ObWxV40
&mdash; Africa24 Media (@a24media) August 31, 2015
 
But as record declines in the Chinese stock market last week sparked fears of a broader Chinese economic downturn, some experts have said that the flow of cash and weapons into Sudan from China, in exchange for the African country's vast reserves of oil, could slow -- to Sudan's detriment.
“The Sudanese economy is crumbling with or without Chinese support,” Eric Reeves, a Sudan researcher and analyst at Smith College in Massachusetts, told International Business Times Wednesday. Bashir has held power in Sudan for 25 years. Forces with his government are currently facing an active insurgency in two regions and have been accused of deliberately killing and raping civilians. In Sudan, an estimated 6.9 million people need humanitarian assistance, and millions have been internally displaced.
The vast majority of weapons that Sudanese forces use come from China in exchange for oil. But that could change if Beijing reconsiders how it distributes foreign spending and support in the face of recent economic concerns. 
Ghandour nevertheless suggested that Chinese-Sudanese relations remained rosy.
"Right now, China and Sudan are actually having excellent relations, and this is how Sudan and President Bashir have been invited to China,” Ghandour said.
It's been 67 years since Albert, the first monkey astronaut, was shot up into space and became a trailblazer for generations of fellow primates to come. And now, a whole army of simians is joining the Chinese air force to continue that legacy of monkeys in flight.
But don't worry, the monkey recruits won't be at the controls in the cockpit. Instead, they will be tasked with climbing up trees and breaking up bird nests in order to address a serious issue: Way too many birds are flying around as planes take off and land.
"The use of monkeys is an innovative idea, which has been effective. They do their job better than people," Col. Han Bin said, according to Sputnik News, a Russian government outlet. China has already reportedly taken out 180 bird nests at an air base near Beijing.
The high population of birds in the trees around Chinese air bases poses a serious risk for the pilots and crews aboard the planes. Since so many birds are in the skies, they often get sucked into aircraft turbines and engines. When that happens, major disasters can result: The engines fail and pilots are then required to perform emergency landings or crash.
Bird-related plane crashes and problems certainly aren't unique to China. In the United States, birds have been blamed for hundreds of damaged aircraft. In the first 10 years of this century, more than 500 planes reported collisions with birds, according to the U.S. Federal Aviation Administration. At least 166 of those planes had to make emergency landings. Birds cause an estimated $600 million in U.S. aviation damage each year.
The worst recorded bird-related U.S. aircraft crash was in 1960, when a flight leaving Boston encountered a large flock of starlings. The plane veered several times and crashed into Winthrop Bay. Sixty-two of the 72 passengers on board the flight were killed. 
Follow me on Twitter: @ClarkMindock
India released its latest growth data Monday, showing that Asia's third largest economy continued its strong growth during the first quarter of the current fiscal year.
India’s gross domestic product (GDP), which the government now measures based on market prices, in line with the practice in developed economies, grew 7 percent in the three months ended June 30, compared to the same period in the previous fiscal year that ended March 31.
“While external factors have gained significance for the Indian GDP, by and large, the Indian story is still driven by domestic demand," Sunil Kumar Sinha, principal economist at India Ratings & Research, told International Business Times in a telephone interview.
The ratings agency was expecting a growth rate of 7 percent for the first quarter of the current fiscal year. Economists polled by Reuters and Bloomberg reportedly expected the quarterly growth rate to be at 7.4 percent. For the full year, ending March 31, 2016, Sinha expects India to grow by 7.7 percent.
Manufacturing, trade, hotels and transport and communication, and services related to broadcasting and financial, insurance, real estate and professional services, contributed to growth in the first quarter, India's Ministry of Statistics and Program Implementation said in a news release on Monday.
In January, India switched to measuring its economic growth based on market prices, with the fiscal year 2011-2012 as the base period. Under this method, India’s GDP grew 7.3 percent for the year ending March 31, the government’s Central Statistics Office said in a release on May 29.
In the first three months of the calendar year 2015, India’s growth, reckoned by the new method, surpassed that of China’s economy. And the slowdown in China and falling oil prices are being seen by many as an opportunity for India to push through tough but much-needed reforms. 
Action on the ground, however, has been painfully slow. Prime Minister Narendra Modi said over the weekend that the government will allow an ordinance on land acquisition to lapse Monday, and incorporate various points to reform the rules.
The government is looking to amend land rules to make it easier to find land for several pending infrastructure projects, so they can be expedited. Opposition campaigning, calling the changes -- including doing away with the social impact study, required under existing rules -- as “anti-farmer,” has helped stall the changes.
However, economists such as Sinha accept delays as part of doing things in a democracy. “The only signal we should not send, is that there is a deadlock,” he said.
“All that we have been talking about, whether it is land reforms, or tax reforms, ease of doing business, if we get our act together and start delivering on the ground, then we will remain an attractive destination,” he said.
Correction: This story originally mentioned that India's GDP grew by 7.1 percent according to the new method of calculation. The correct figure is 7 percent and the story has been updated.​
In the midst of this month's global stock market sell-off, the U.S. provided investors with some relief last week with a revised gross domestic product number that showed the world’s largest economy grew more than previously thought in the April-June period. For now, the country's second-quarter economic activity has eased fears that a China-led global economic slowdown could spread to the U.S.
China, the world’s second-largest economy, is expected to grow at a roughly 6 percent annual pace this year, according to Rockwell Global Capital. That's much slower than previously anticipated and considerably more plodding than the country's double-digit growth rate of just a few years ago. Global financial markets dipped sharply lower last week on a variety of fears, anticipating a global downturn in response to weakness in China’s economy and financial markets.
To be sure, there is nervousness in the U.S., too. The current recovery has been the weakest in the country's history, and some economists fear the U.S. isn't strong enough to withstand a global slowdown. Last week, when the S&P 500 was in the midst of its first correction since late 2011, it triggered talk of recession. 
Even so, most economists say the U.S. economy is not at severe risk of recession -- not yet, anyway. The Conference Board’s most recent monthly Leading Economic Index (LEI), released last week, suggests the risk of recession in the next 12 months is low at just 4 percent. The LEI measures 10 economic factors, including employment, income and housing values, and has been largely effective at forecasting recessions in the last half century. The Conference Board's report did note, however, that the odds of a recession increase to 9 percent when looking out 18 months and 11 percent within a 2-year period.
The Conference Board’s monthly Leading Economic Index is designed to predict the probable path of the economy 6–12 months in the future. On balance, the LEI says the risk of recession in the next 12 months is a low 4 percent.. Photo: LPL Research, Conference Board, Bureau of Economic Analysis
A global slowdown hurts the U.S. in several ways. U.S. corporations -- from McDonald's to Apple -- face the prospect of sharply lower-than-expected revenue from their overseas operations, especially in countries that are heavily dependent on exporting to China. Those dampened prospects are unlikely to weigh heavily on the U.S. economy, economists say. The U.S. still relies largely on domestic consumption to fuel economic growth, with consumer spending accounting for around two-thirds of economic activity.
“The current sub-par global growth performance does not help the U.S. economy, but it would take a pretty severe global recession to actually push the U.S. into a recession,” says Sal Guatieri, senior economist at BMO Capital Markets.
The real threats to U.S. expansion lie elsewhere, experts say.
1. The ever-strengthening dollar
One of the main risks of a U.S. recession has to do with the Federal Reserve’s decision on interest rates, coming at its next meeting, set for Sept. 16 and 17. The concern is whether the U.S. central bank will raise interest rates this year, even in the wake of China’s slowing economy and the steep sell-off in global financial markets. 
 A rate hike, says Robert Godby, a professor of economics and finance at the University of Wyoming, “could really drive us into a recession because that would lead to currency appreciation and would hurt our entire trade sector.”
Economists also fear the U.S. dollar, which has gained more than 16 percent in the last 12 months, could appreciate even further if the U.S. central bank hikes interest rates. As the Fed aims to begin tightening its monetary policy, other major economies around the world, including China, Japan and Europe, are stimulating their economies to boost growth. Those moves have depreciated other world currencies against the greenback.
“Even a small move in interest rates from the Fed could have a disproportionate impact on the U.S. dollar, driving it higher,” Guatieri says.
The U.S. dollar has gained more than 16 percent in the last 12 months. Photo: Thomson Reuters
The U.S. economy doesn't rely heavily on exports to China. Only 7 percent of U.S. exports go to China. However, an appreciating dollar makes it more difficult for U.S. companies to sell to Americans when they are competing against foreign companies. “If all the sudden we start substituting more foreign goods than domestic goods, then that hurts our manufacturing economy,” Godby says.
Sectors within the U.S. economy, including manufacturing that compete with foreign produced goods are at risk. “If people start buying Korean cars versus American cars, then that clearly hurts automakers like General Motors,” Godby says.
2. Plunging U.S. stocks 
If U.S. stocks continue to fall sharply, the plummet would undercut household wealth and overall consumption. "Anything that drives equities lower would pose a risk of a recession in the U.S.," Guatieri says.
When consumers have smaller balances in their retirement accounts, they end up spending less. “If we did get a severe setback in the stock market, that could raise a downside risk to the U.S. economy,” Guatieri says.
But, stock market downturns don’t always imply recession, but what’s important now is how things change in the near term. Guatieri's own outlook is rather positive. He says global reactions to China's slowdown were overdone in light of the recent interest rate cut and raised bank reserve ratios from the People's Bank of China.
He also sees a low likelihood of global recession. Global interest rates are currently at historic lows, and economists expect consumer-driven economies like the U.S., Europe and Japan to benefit from the drop in oil prices because it will lead to cheaper fuel. “It would be unusual to see a global recession under the current conditions,” Guatieri.
SHANGHAI -- Shares in China and several other Asia-Pacific nations fell again Monday amid continuing concerns about the health of China’s economy, and U.S. Federal Reserve Vice Chairman Stanley Fischer’s remarks that the Fed had not ruled out an interest rate rise in September.
In Tokyo the Nikkei finished the day down almost 1.3 percent. Analysts said profit-taking was one reason for the fall, as investors sought to lock in gains made during the market’s rebound in the second half of last week. But investor sentiment was also affected by news that Japanese industrial output had fallen unexpectedly by 0.6 percent in July, with some analysts citing weak demand from China as a factor. Singapore’s Straits Times Index also fell Monday, dropping about 0.7 percent, while Australia’s ASX 200 was down nearly 1.1 percent.
There were some positive notes: South Korea’s Kospi Index recovered from a drop in morning trading to close 0.2 percent higher, while Hong Kong’s Hang Seng, which had fallen more than 1 percent Friday, also reversed morning falls to close 0.27 percent up.
In China, however, shares were back in negative territory, after regaining more than 10 percent Thursday and Friday, following their dramatic fall of 18 percentage points between last week's “Black Monday” and Wednesday. The main Shanghai Composite Index fell 3 percent Monday morning, before recovering some of its losses to close 0.8 percent lower at just under 3,206. However, that still left it more than 12 percent down for the month of August, following a drop of more than 14 percent in July.
The secondary index in Shenzhen also fell, by just over 3 percent, leaving it down 15.8 percent for the month -- its worst monthly loss in seven years, Hong Kong’s South China Morning Post reported. Shenzhen’s ChiNext index for high-tech stocks, meanwhile, lived up to its reputation for volatility: after climbing more than 6 percent last Friday, it fell almost 4.1 percent, leaving it 21 percent down on the month.
The falls on China's markets again raise questions about the success of the Chinese government’s attempts to calm investor sentiment. The markets had jumped Friday on the news that China’s state pension fund would invest more than $300 billion in shares in the near future. And at the weekend the government removed a cap on commercial banks’ loan-to-deposit ratios -- previously set at 75 percent of deposits -- in a move seen as designed to encourage lending to businesses, boost the real economy, and reduce the prevalence of shadow banking in China.
The move followed remarks by Chinese Premier Li Keqiang, who told a meeting of China’s top leadership that the yuan would remain “basically stable” following its devaluation earlier in the month. Li was quoted by state media as saying there was no basis for continued depreciation of the yuan, the economy was generally sound, and China would pursue a “proactive fiscal policy and prudent monetary policy.” The official Global Times newspaper said Monday Li’s comments “should help restore investor confidence.”
However, anxiety remains about latest official figures on China's manufacturing output due to be released Tuesday. And the Global Times quoted economic forecaster Xu Hongcai as saying GDP growth might fall to 6.8 percent or 6.9 percent in the third quarter, below the second quarter official figure of 7 percent, as a result of slowing exports and the falls in the stock market. However, Xu predicted monetary easing would see a return to growth of 7 percent in the final quarter of 2015.
Chinese state media also continued to emphasize the government’s line that recent market volatility is partly linked to illegal manipulation. State television Sunday showed an interview with Wang Xiaolu, a reporter from influential financial news magazine Caijing, in which he confessed to making mistakes in his reporting of a story last month that predicted the government was planning to stop its large-scale intervention to prop up the country’s stock markets. The authorities are also reported to have closed a number of social media accounts, which they said had spread rumors about the stock market and other topics. And an official from China's stock market regulator,  Liu Shufan, has also been detained, accused of taking bribes to help companies list on the market, and of insider trading.
The Financial Times also reported at the weekend that Beijing was planning to cut back on the large-scale purchase of shares -- an effort intended to shore up the market -- and would instead target people it believed were destabilizing the market. The Chinese government has yet to comment on the report.
European stocks followed Asian equities lower Monday, hinting at another rough week in global markets -- amid fears that the U.S. Federal Reserve might yet raise interest rates in September.
Germany’s DAX opened more than 0.9 percent lower and the French CAC 40 declined nearly 1 percent. The pan-European Stoxx 600 was down 0.2 percent. U.S. stock markets are also expected to open in the red, with most stock futures down nearly 1 percent at 4.00 a.m. EDT.
Asian equities closed mostly lower and, according to Reuters, Monday’s downturn might be a result of investors bracing for Chinese data Tuesday, which is expected to show a slowdown in the country’s manufacturing and service sectors. Prospects of higher interest rates and returns in the U.S. have also diminished the appeal of emerging markets, as investors continue to dump riskier assets. 
However, the yuan continued to rise for the fourth day after suspected intervention by state-owned banks on behalf of the central bank.
In India, amid fears over the health of emerging economies, GDP data for the April to June quarter are likely to show a 7.4 percent growth -- just short of the 7.5 percent expansion between January and March -- according to estimates by Bloomberg and Reuters. Official figures are scheduled to be released later Monday.
“[India’s] growth momentum has improved in the last two years, but the pace of recovery has been frustratingly slow,” Kaushik Das, an economist with Deutsche Bank, told Reuters.
SHANGHAI -- With China’s stock market remaining volatile, the country’s regulators are continuing a crackdown on rumors, which they say are partly to blame for recent falls that have wiped more than 30 percent off the value of Chinese shares.
State media reported Monday that 197 people have been punished for spreading online rumors, relating both to the stock market and recent explosions at a chemical warehouse in the northern city of Tianjin, which killed at least 150 people, with 23 still missing. Meanwhile a journalist from one of China’s leading financial magazines has been shown on television confessing to spreading "fake information" and damaging investor confidence.
The reports appear to reflect official concern at the potential fallout from the plunge in China’s markets. The official Xinhua news agency said 165 social media accounts had been closed in the Chinese police’s “special campaign” against online rumors. It said the rumors included reports that a person had committed suicide because of the recent falls in the stock market, or that 1,300 people had died in the Tianjin explosions. Xinhua did not give details of the punishments handed down, but said those involved had expressed “repentance” for their “misconduct,” which had "caused panic, misled the public and resulted in disorders in stock market or society."
China said two weeks ago that it closed 50 websites for spreading rumors about the Aug. 12 Tianjin explosion, however this is the first official confirmation of reports of the closure of social media accounts.
Chinese state media have acknowledged that a failure by officials in Tianjin to release information about the explosion and casualties encouraged rumors, and Hong Kong’s South China Morning Post reported last week that China’s central government had encouraged some Chinese reporters to investigate local Tianjin officials, 11 of whom have now been detained for dereliction of duty.
However, the government has taken a more critical approach to Wang Xiaolu, a reporter with influential financial magazine Caijing. After being detained last week, Wang was shown on state TV Sunday apologizing for a story he published on July 20, in which he wrote that a government-linked finance company might be considering removing some of the billions of dollars it had invested in China's markets in an attempt to stabilize share prices following sharp falls. The story prompted a denial from China’s market regulator.
In the broadcast Wang was shown apologizing for what he said was a combination of “private information obtained through inappropriate channels” and his own “subjective judgment.” He said he regretted “seeking to create a sensation” through this “criminal act,” and publishing a report that had “brought big losses to the nation and investors at such a sensitive time."
Wang was shown asking judicial departments for leniency. It is not clear whether he or those "punished" in the anti-rumor campaign will be sent for trial. Two years ago China passed a law that threatened bloggers with jail if they wrote or re-posted rumors online. However, some legal experts have criticized the definition of rumors as vague, while others have said the showing of televised confessions -- which has become increasingly common in China in the past few years -- undermines the prospects of a fair trial for those involved. One well-known blogger who was shown on television confessing to publishing false information online two years ago was never actually charged.
Nevertheless David Bandurski, a researcher at the China Media Project at Hong Kong University, told International Business Times that Wang's confession was "an extremely worrisome case for China's press." He said Wang had "not been afforded proper legal protections" before making his televised remarks, adding that Wang's comments also implied that his detention was "not about facts... but about sensitivity." And Bandurski noted that Chinese share prices actually rallied for three days after Wang's article was published. 
"We don't know what the facts are behind Wang Xiaolu's reporting for the July 20 story," he said. "But even in healthy, unfettered press environments journalists doing their best [sometimes] get things wrong. The proper correction comes through openness of information and reporting. This public confession will hang heavily around the neck of China's financial press."
The authorities’ attempts to crack down on what they say is illegal manipulation of the stock market have also led to the detention of the head of leading brokerage Citic Securities, Xu Gang, and three other top officials from the company. And Xinhua reported that Liu Shufan, an official from China’s stock market regulator, the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC), had also been detained on suspicion of helping a company to obtain a market listing for a bribe worth hundreds of thousands of dollars, and for insider trading, which netted him a similar amount, as well as faking court documents relating to his mistress.
The report may confirm suspicions of some critics that China’s regulator does not always make decisions on listing companies -- many of them originally state enterprises -- based on sound economic fundamentals. The authorities have said they are taking steps to make such decisions more market-based. However some observers continue to call for more transparency at the CSRC and in decision-making related to China’s stock market. 
BEIJING (Reuters) - People whose apartments were damaged in explosions in the northeastern Chinese port city of Tianjin can sell their homes to a group of property developers or choose to have the government renovate them, the official Xinhua news agency said.
Hundreds of residents had protested demanding compensation in the wake of the blasts that killed at least 150 people at a hazardous chemicals warehouse earlier in August.
Some apartment buildings were closer to the warehouse than allowed by Chinese regulations dealing with the storage of dangerous materials, and public anger surged among those who believed authorities neglected to properly police the firm that ran the facility, Tianjin Dongjiang Port Ruihai International Logistics Co. Ltd.
Several property developers said they had formed an alliance to buy back homes from owners, Xinhua said on Sunday, citing the housing administration in Tianjin's Binhai area.
The "alliance's repurchase price will be the higher of the market price before the blast or the price at which residents bought their homes," Xinhua said, adding that homeowners would still be eligible for additional compensation.
An "independent third party agency" will determine the pre-blast market price of the homes and the value of damaged goods inside, Xinhua said. Those whose homes had not yet been delivered by developers can opt for a "resettlement allowance."
When asked for a comment, China Vanke Co. Ltd, the country's largest property developer, said only homes not yet delivered to homeowners will be offered a buyback while those that have already been delivered will only get free renovation and compensation.
China Vanke had earlier said about 5,000 residential units at three of its developments were affected by the blasts and that it would work with the government to settle any compensation for homeowners.
Thousands of people had been evacuated from around the blast site in Tianjin as information emerged about the potentially deadly chemicals stored at the warehouse.
Many residents in buildings close to the blasts had expressed concern about potential long-term health effects, though government officials had repeatedly said environmental standards in the blast area were "basically guaranteed."
In a separate report, Xinhua said Chinese police had punished 197 people for spreading "online rumors" about recent incidents, including the Tianjin explosions, China's stock market slump, and "seditious" comments about upcoming 70-year commemorations of the end of World War II.
Asian shares opened lower on Monday amid continuing concerns about the health of China’s economy, and U.S. Federal Reserve Vice Chairman Stanley Fischer’s remarks the Fed had not ruled out an interest rate rise in September. In Tokyo the Nikkei fell by slightly more than 1 percent in morning trading, following news Japanese industrial output had fallen beyond expectations, by 0.6 percent in July. In South Korea, the KOSPI was down almost 0.5 percent, as was Singapore’s Straits Times Index. Australia’s ASX 200, meanwhile, was down nearly 1.2 percent by lunch, local time.
Chinese stocks also opened sharply lower. After recovering more than 10 percent Thursday and Friday -- following a dramatic 18 point fall in the first half of last week -- the main Shanghai Composite Index was down 2.6 percent in Monday morning trading. The secondary index in Shenzhen also fell, by more than 2.2 percent, while the always volatile ChiNext index, for high-tech stocks, which had risen by more than 6 percent Friday, was down almost 3.1 percent. 
Hong Kong’s Hang Seng, which had falled more than 1 percent Friday, also opened lower, and had fallen more than 0.7 percent by lunchtime.
Both Shanghai and Hong Kong are facing one of their worst monthly declines for August -- at the start of Monday’s trading both were down some 12 percent on the start of the month.
The falls on China's markets again raise questions about the success of the Chinese government’s attempts to calm investor sentiment. The markets had jumped Friday on news China’s state pension fund would invest more than $300 billion in shares in the near future. And at the weekend the government removed a cap on commercial banks’ loan to deposit ratios -- previously set at 75 percent of deposits -- to encourage lending to businesses, reduce the prevalence of shadow banking and boost the real economy.
That move followed remarks by Chinese Premier Li Keqiang, who told a meeting of China’s top leadership the Chinese yuan would remain “basically stable” following its devaluation of around 2 percent earlier in the month. Li was quoted by state media as saying there was no basis for continued depreciation of the yuan, the economy was generally sound, and China would pursue a “proactive fiscal policy and prudent monetary policy.” The official Global Times newspaper said Monday Li’s comments “should help restore investor confidence.”
However, anxiety remains about latest figures on China's factory performance due to be released Tuesday. And the Global Times quoted economic forecaster Xu Hongcai as saying GDP growth might fall to 6.8 or 6.9 percent in the third quarter, below the second quarter official figure of 7 percent, as a result of slowing exports and the falls in the stock market. However, Xu predicted monetary easing would see a return to growth of 7 percent in the final quarter of 2015.
Chinese state media also continued to emphasize the government’s line that recent market volatility is partly linked to illegal manipulation. State TV at the weekend showed an interview with Wang Xiaolu, a reporter from influential financial news magazine Caijing, in which he confessed to making mistakes in his reporting of a story last month that predicted the government was planning to stop its large-scale intervention to prop up the country’s stock markets. The authorities are also reported to have closed a number of social media accounts, which they said had spread rumors about the stock market and other topics.
While meeting for an annual economic symposium during the weekend, officials of the U.S. Federal Reserve signaled they would not abandon plans to raise the nation’s interest rates by year’s end. Many policymakers said last week’s stock market volatility and China’s troubles have not changed their assessment of a healthy job growth and expanding economic output, the Wall Street Journal reported.
Although officials will pay special attention to the U.S. markets and China, they hoped American consumer-price inflation will start climbing to their annual target of 2 percent, clearing the way for rate increases. Officials have forewarned an interest rate increase was likely this fall.
“There is good reason to believe that inflation will move higher as the forces holding inflation down -- oil prices and import prices, particularly -- dissipate further,” Stanley Fischer, vice chairman of the Fed, said during the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City’s annual economic symposium in Jackson Hole, Wyoming. However, “I will not, and indeed cannot, tell you what decision the Fed will reach by Sept. 17,” the vice chairman added.
The Fed wants U.S. inflation to meet its goal. Officials say a steady inflation rate makes it easier for businesses and households to plan. But if the Fed raises rates while other economies, like Europe and China, reduce their rates or implement other stimulus measures, the value of the U.S. dollar would soar above the Fed’s goals and hurt the economy in subsequent years.
In Jackson Hole, Minneapolis Fed President Narayana Kocherlakota was virtually alone in his idea of keeping near-zero interest rates, the Journal reported. Last October, Kocherlakota lost a battle to end the Fed’s bond-buying program. “I’ve won some and lost some. I wish I had done a better job. I think we’d be better positioned policy-wise if I had done a better job of being persuasive,” he told the Journal.
 
By Shinichi Saoshiro
TOKYO (Reuters) -- Asian stocks sagged on Monday after top Federal Reserve officials kept the door open for an interest rate hike in September and investors braced for China economic data this week.
Fed Vice Chairman Stanley Fischer, speaking at the central bank' conference in Jackson Hole, Wyoming, said recent volatility in global markets could ease and possibly pave the way for a rate hike.
St. Louis Fed President James Bullard also said he still favored hiking rates next month, though he added that his colleagues would be hesitant to do so if global markets continued to be volatile into mid-September.
Bullard referred to the global turmoil in financial markets last week, when a sharp sell-off in Chinese shares, uncertainty over the Fed's plans and an overdue correction on Wall Street sent equities sliding across the world.
Global markets ended last week on a calmer note, however, helped by easing steps from the People's Bank of China and other government support measures, and hopes that the Fed would delay hiking rates following this month's tumult in financial markets.
MSCI's broadest index of Asia-Pacific shares outside Japan was down 0.5 percent. The index, which hit a three-year low last week, was on track for a 10 percent loss this month.
Japan's Nikkei was down 1 percent and South Korea's Kospi shed 0.6 percent. Australian shares lost 1.3 percent.
Shanghai stocks, the epicenter of this month's whip-saw action, were on track for an 11 percent loss in August. They have plunged nearly 40 percent since mid-June.
While China's stock markets seldom reflect the true nature of the economy, the plunge, coupled with Beijing's unexpected currency devaluation in mid-August, has dented confidence in the government and added to fears that the economy may be at risk of slowing more sharply than earlier expected.
U.S. stock index futures ESc1 were down 1.2 percent early in the Asian session, suggesting a weaker open for Wall Street.
Skittish markets will therefore be watching factory and service sector activity surveys from the world's second-largest economy on Tuesday, as well as U.S. nonfarm payroll numbers due on Friday.
"The United States is not immune from international growth concerns but it is likely least affected, and we continue to expect USD outperformance," strategists at Barclays wrote.
"While we recently revised our Fed rate hike call to March 2016 from September 2015, we think it is even more likely that other major central banks will push back tightening or move toward outright easing."
The dollar was down 0.4 percent at 121.25 yen JPY= after rising to the week's high of 121.76 on Friday following the Fed officials' comments that kept prospects of a September hike alive.
The euro was up 0.2 percent at $1.1211 after touching an eight-day low of $1.1156 on Friday. The market will watch Thursday's policy meeting to see if the European Central Bank will be inclined to ease monetary policy further in the wake of the recent globalmarkets turmoil.
U.S. crude oil prices dipped early on Monday as their biggest two-day surge in quarter of a century ran its course.
U.S. crude CLc1 was down 0.8 percent at $44.86 a barrel after jumping more than six percent Friday on frenetic short-covering fueled by violence in Yemen, a storm in the Gulf of Mexico and refinery outages. [O/R]
The contracts were still down nearly five percent on the month, when they hit a 6-1/2-year low last week in the wake of China-led growth fears.
(Editing by Kim Coghill)
The latest installment in a decadeslong battle between a Kurdish military group and the Turkish government claimed seven more lives Sunday, Agence France-Presse reported. Three police officers, three Kurdish rebels and a 12-year-old civilian boy lost their lives in separate parts of the country.
A battle in Silopi claimed the lives of three Kurdish fighters and one Turkish police officer, while two more police officers were shot dead in Diyarbakir, a regional capital in the southeast. The boy died after stepping on a landmine that local officials say members of the Kurdistan Workers Party, or PKK, planted.
Earlier this month, Murat Karayilan, who leads the PKK’s Iraq-based forces, said the Turkish government would pay a “very heavy price” for its decision to launch a series of airstrikes against PKK targets. Since then, attacks on Turkish fighters have led to some 60 deaths in recent weeks. Turkey's President Recep Tayyip Erdogan has countered with his own strong words, saying his military forces will continue to fight the PKK until "not one single terrorist" remains. 
The battle between Turkish authorities and the PKK stretches back more than 30 years, to when the PKK launched a violent campaign against the Turkish government, demanding Kurdish autonomy within Turkey, in 1984. Since then, fighting between the two sides has claimed more than 40,000 lives.
A ceasefire brokered in 2013 provided a respite, but a suicide bombing by inside Turkey -- by fighters from the Islamic State group, and which PKK forces accused Turkish authorities of being involved in -- sparked a new round of violence. Days after the July 20 bombing, PKK forces claimed responsibility for suicide attacks in southeastern Turkey, which borders Syria.
A number of governments, including the United States, European Union and Turkey, consider the PKK a terrorist organization.
Republican presidential candidate Scott Walker thinks the U.S. should explore the prospect of building a wall along the longest international border in the world. The Wisconsin governor said on NBC's “Meet the Press” Sunday that he believes a wall between the U.S. and Canada is a "legitimate" issue that should be carefully considered.  
Walker told "Meet the Press" host Chuck Todd that he got the idea from some voters he met in New Hampshire. “They raised some very legitimate concerns, including some law enforcement folks that brought that up to me at one of our town hall meetings about a week-and-a-half ago,” Walker said.
The idea of securing America’s southern border with Mexico, either with a $22 billion wall or some other way, has long been a matter of debate among Republican candidates. Ever since it became clear in 2008 that a fence erected by the Department of Homeland Security was not getting the job done, candidates including former Arkansas Gov. Mike Huckabee and businessman Donald Trump have visited the border and vowed to do whatever was necessary to seal it.
The subject of America’s northern border with Canada -- the longest in the world, at more than 5,500 miles -- is discussed less frequently. According to the Pew Hispanic Center, just 5 percent of America’s illegal immigrants arrive from Canada and Europe, compared to 52 percent from Mexico.
And while some law enforcement officials have cited an influx of Canadian pharmaceuticals, particularly generic versions of painkillers such as OxyContin, as a concern, it pales in comparison to the volume of drugs that seeps through from Mexico every year.  
Several months into the start of a very long race to select the Republican Party's 2016 presidential nominee, Walker has had trouble generating excitement or forward momentum. A poll recently released by Civis put Walker in seventh place among 17 Republican candidates, with support from just 5 percent of respondents. The same poll had Trump leading the Republican field, with support from 16 percent of respondents.
This story was updated at 12:37 p.m. EDT with reports of the arrests made.
After a rare case of deadly gun violence erupted in one of Europe’s safest capitals Sunday afternoon, three suspects entered a police station and were arrested on suspicion of their involvement. One person died, and three others were injured in Rinkeby, a neighborhood in the Swedish city of Stockholm, according to Swedish authorities, and just three hours later, three suspects turned themselves in, Swedish Television News reported.
According to one eyewitness account, cited by The Local, two men, one armed with a gun, the other with a knife, chased down a man before stabbing and shooting him. The gunshots ricocheted into bystanders, who were treated for minor injuries at a local hospital. Police have cordoned off the area and are still looking for the unidentified suspects.
“We regard it as an extraordinary event,” said Stockholm police spokeswoman Eva Nilsson.
Rinkeby is one of Stockholm's most ethnically diverse neighborhoods, and it is also considered by locals to be one of the most unsafe neighborhoods in all of Sweden. According to the ICE Project, which examines European cities at a neighborhood level, educational attainment and income levels lag far behind the capital’s average. It also has been, in recent years, the site of severe unrest. Thirty fires were set in the neighborhood during riots that swept through Stockholm in 2013.
Despite its reputation as an unsafe part of town, gun violence there, or anywhere in the country, is unusual. Sweden has some of the toughest gun laws in the world: adults cannot own or purchase guns without licenses, which can only be obtained through an application process that takes months. Sweden also has one of the lowest murder rates in the world. According to statistics compiled by the United Nations, Sweden’s murder rate is five times lower than that of the United States. Last year, there were just 87 cases of lethal violence confirmed by Sweden’s official crime prevention agency.
While authorities have not revealed any possible motive for the attacks, Sweden is currently dealing with a record surge in hate crimes. In 2014, hate crimes rose 14 percent, the highest single-year increase ever recorded in the country. 
ROME (Reuters) Italian energy group Eni said on Sunday it had discovered potentially one of the world's largest natural-gas fields off the Egyptian coast, predicting that the find could help meet Egypt's gas needs for decades to come.
"According to the well and geophysical data available, the field could hold a potential of 30 trillion cubic feet of lean gas in place," Eni said in a statement.
It said the Zohr discovery well was located at a depth of 1,450 metres (4,757 feet). "Zohr is the largest gas discovery ever made in Egypt and in the Mediterranean Sea and could become one of the world's largest natural-gas finds."
(Writing by Crispian Balmer; Editing by Stephen Jewkes)
At least 11 people were killed and more than 200 injured, many critically, after a blaze broke out Sunday in the basement of the Radium Residential Complex in the Saudi Arabian city of Khobar, the Wall Street Journal reported. The fire soon spread throughout the building, trapping some on rooftops and others in their apartments, the Associated Press reported, citing Saudi officials.
The complex is used by the state oil giant Saudi Aramco to house employees. The blaze’s victims included people of multiple nationalities, according to AP's account of a statement by the Interior Ministry's general directorate of civil defense. The number of injuries was 219 at last report.
Mohammed Siddique, an engineer who lives close to the complex, told AP he first saw smoke Sunday at about 6 a.m. local time (Saturday at about 11 p.m. EDT). A number of images posted on social media by media outlets and witnesses showed thick smoke rising from the complex as helicopters hovered overhead. The photographs showed the smoke billowing from multiple structures in and around what appeared to be the Radium complex, while individuals on the ground were running for safety.
"I saw at least 30 ambulances and three helicopters. The smoke was very heavy," Siddique told AP.
Saudi building fire update: 219 people injured & 7 people killed in the Aramco building fire. pic.twitter.com/FH9Pd5DeA4
— Mohammed Al-Binateej (@ATEEKSTER) August 30, 2015
Helicopters were still battling the blaze at 7 a.m. EDT, according to BBC News, which reported that Saudi Aramco has launched an investigation into the cause of the fire, pledging to use "all means and available resources" to help those affected. The company indicated residents affected by the blaze were being moved to alternate accommodations, BBC News said.
The complex is a gated community with eight six-story buildings and a total of 486 units, according to Saudi Aramco’s website. The company employs more than 61,000 workers from 77 countries, many of whom live in company housing.
Some of those injured were treated at the scene, AP reported, citing Saudi Aramco. It added that an emergency command center had been set up and that people injured in the blaze have been taken to company medical facilities and local hospitals. The firm declined to identify the nationalities of the employees killed or injured in the fire.
China's economy is growing at a “reasonable” pace, Chinese Premier Li Keqiang said Friday, adding that there was no basis for a continued depreciation of the Yuan, after the country's central bank allowed the currency to devalue 2.8 percent this month.
China's official news agency Xinhua quoted Li as saying "the Chinese economy is operating within an appropriate range and China continues to lead the world in terms of growth".
Li's remarks, made at a high-level meeting of officials on Friday, but published late Saturday, stressed that measures taken by the country's Communist Party government to stabilize the stock market were proving effective.
China's stock market has endured a period of extreme volatility in recent months, resulting in trillions of dollars being wiped off the value of shares. On Friday, Shanghai's benchmark index was nearly 38 percent below where it was on June 12, Reuters reported.
The yuan can remain “basically” stable on a “reasonable and equilibrium level,” said Li, according to a statement posted on a Chinese government website. He added that China will continue to carry out proactive fiscal policy and prudent monetary policy and will use “more precise” measures to cope with downward pressure on the economy.
After years of double-digit economic growth, China's economy has slowed recently. Chinese government figures said that the country had met its growth target of 7 percent for 2014, but many economists and commentators have expressed skepticism about the veracity of these claims.
Chinese policy makers want to stabilize shares before a Sept. 3 military parade celebrating the 70th anniversary of the World War II victory over Japan, two people familiar with the matter, who asked not to be identified because the intervention wasn’t publicly announced, told Bloomberg.
World markets closed Friday having largely recovered from China-induced panic selling, but observers remain concerned the turmoil in the world's number two economy will drag down global growth.
Economy watchers got some key clues Saturday as to the timing of the U.S. central bank's next interest rate hike. U.S. Federal Reserve Vice Chairman Stanley Fischer spoke about the state of the U.S. economy at the annual Economic Policy Symposium in Jackson Hole, Wyoming, which brings together many of the world's central bankers.
As part of the talk, Fischer dropped a few hints about interest rates, which have hovered near historic lows since the global financial crisis. The annual event comes at a pivotal time when global markets reacted violently this week to signs China's economy is decelerating at a much faster pace than expected. Experts fear an economic slowdown in the world’s second-largest economy could stall the U.S. recovery following the Great Recession.
Here are the three main takeaways from Fischer’s speech:
1. Central bankers are following developments in China’s economy. Even before China’s stock market began to plunge this week, the U.S. Federal Reserve was questioning its stance on an interest-rate increase planned for some time later this year. Many experts had forecast September as the most likely time frame for the central bank to lift rates for the first time in nearly a decade.
At this moment, we are following developments in the Chinese economy and their actual and potential effects on other economies even more closely than usual,” Fischer said in prepared remarks to central bankers at the annual conference in Jackson Hole, Wyoming.
China surprised global markets after devaluing the yuan two weeks ago, and then at the end of last week, data showed production in Chinese factories shrank in August at its fastest rate in more than six years, sparking fears its economy is decelerating at a much faster pace than expected pace.
The central bank needs to consider the overall state of the U.S. economy, Fischer said, as well as “the influence of foreign economies on the U.S. economy” as the Fed reaches its judgment on whether and how to change monetary policy. 
The Fed is interested more in where the U.S. economy is heading than in knowing from where it has come, Fischer said, adding the central bank follows economic developments in the rest of the world as well as the U.S. in reaching our interest rate decisions.
2. The path of interest rates matters more than the particular timing of the first increase. As global markets witnessed multiple bouts of volatility this week, economists question whether the U.S. is strong enough to move away from crisis-level interest rates.
The Fed has a “dual mandate” of stabilizing U.S. inflation and achieving maximum employment. To meet the central bank’s goals of maximum employment and price stability, Fischer said the Fed will most likely need to “proceed cautiously” in normalizing its monetary policy stance.
For the purpose of meeting our goals, the entire path of interest rates matters more than the particular timing of the first increase,” Fischer said.
There is just one more monthly unemployment reading ahead of the Federal Reserve’s next meeting on Sept. 16-17. The financial markets reacted with mixed emotions to the July numbers because the report didn’t completely solidify whether the Fed would actually hike rates in September, or hold off until later. 
The August employment report is due out Friday.
3. The Fed shouldn’t “wait until inflation is back to 2 percent to begin tightening.” Fischer still left the door open for a Fed rate increase in September. 
Fischer cautioned delaying action to tighten monetary policy until U.S. employment and inflation reach the central bank’s targets would risk overheating the economy. However, data released Friday showed the Fed’s preferred inflation gauge, the price index for personal consumption expenditures, remained below the Fed’s 2 percent inflation target for 39 consecutive months. 
Even so, Fischer said the effects of a strengthening U.S. dollar on inflation are beginning to fade, along with the sharp fall in oil prices, which have lost 60 percent of their value in the last year. 
Given the apparent stability of inflation expectations, there is good reason to believe that inflation will move higher as the forces holding down inflation dissipate further," Fischer said.
The speech comes after Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta President Dennis Lockhart said Monday he continues to expect a rate hike this year, but cautioned a stronger dollar, a weaker Chinese yuan and falling oil prices could complicate the central bank’s outlook going forward. Meanwhile, top U.S. central bank official William Dudley, president of the New York Federal Reserve, said Wednesday a September interest rate hike appears “less compelling.”
Jessica Menton is a writer who covers business and the financial markets. News tips? Email me here. Follow me on Twitter @JessicaMenton.
U.S. inflation will likely rebound as pressure from the dollar and other factors fade, allowing the Federal Reserve to raise interest rates gradually, Fed Vice Chairman Stanley Fischer said on Saturday.
The influential U.S. central banker was circumspect whether he would prefer to raise rates from near zero at a much-anticipated policy meeting on Sept. 16-17. But he said downward price pressure from the rising dollar, falling oil prices, and slack in the U.S. labor market is fading.
"Given the apparent stability of inflation expectations, there is good reason to believe that inflation will move higher as the forces holding down inflation dissipate further," he told a central bankers' conference in Jackson Hole, Wyoming.
"With inflation low, we can probably remove accommodation at a gradual pace," he added. "Yet, because monetary policy influences real activity with a substantial lag, we should not wait until inflation is back to 2 percent to begin tightening."
The Fed has said it wants to be reasonably confident that inflation, which has been stuck below a 2-percent target for a few years, will rebound in the medium term. Recent financial market turmoil and fears of a Chinese economic slowdown could stall that rebound.
"At this moment, we are following developments in the Chinese economy and their actual and potential effects on other economies even more closely than usual," said Fischer, who on Friday said it was too early to decide whether September was the time to hike rates for the first time in nearly a decade.
(Reporting by Jonathan Spicer and Howard Schneider; Editing by Andrea Ricci)
Warren Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway Inc (BRKa.N) disclosed a $4.48 billion stake in oil refiner Phillips 66 (PSX.N), rebuilding a bet it had made in the energy industry before oil prices fell.
The 57.98 million-share, or roughly 10.8 percent, stake was revealed in a Friday night filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Phillips 66 shares closed Friday at $77.23.
Berkshire once held a large stake in the Houston-based company, but shed nearly two-thirds of it in February 2014 when it swapped $1.35 billion of shares for a chemicals business that it folded into its Lubrizol unit.
Crude oil prices have since fallen by more than half, though Phillips 66's share price has dropped by less than 1 percent.
Phillips 66 spokesman Dennis Nuss on Saturday said the Houston-based company does not comment on specific shareholders.Berkshire may have begun rebuilding its Phillips 66 stake in the second quarter, when it bought $3.09 billion of equities overall.
In an Aug. 14 SEC filing detailing its U.S. stock holdings, Berkshire did not mention Phillips 66, after having previously reported a 7.5 million-share stake as of March 31, but said it disclosed some information confidentially to the regulator.
The SEC sometimes lets Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire do this so Buffett can quietly buy a large amount of stock, without worrying about investors piggybacking on the famed investor's apparent stamp of approval.
He did this in 2013, when Berkshire amassed a $3.45 billion stake in Exxon Mobil Corp (XOM.N). Buffett sold that stake in last year's fourth quarter.
Berkshire does not normally say whether Buffett or his portfolio managers Todd Combs or Ted Weschler make specific investments, but larger investments are generally Buffett's.
Until this week, when the price briefly fell below $70, Phillips 66 shares have since April traded around or slightly above their current price.
Berkshire ended June owning $117.7 billion of equities.
It also owns more than 80 businesses, and on August 10 said it would buy Precision Castparts Corp (PCP.N), which makes parts for the aerospace and energy industries, for roughly $32.3 billion.
(Editing by Andrew Roche)
For much of her tenure as head of the Federal Reserve, Janet Yellen has been pressured by Republican lawmakers who want the U.S. central bank to adopt a monetary policy rule, a straightforward formula connecting unemployment and inflation to a benchmark interest rate.
On Saturday a Yellen ally and former adviser at the Fed delivered a provocative retort: the economic models underpinning those simple rules don't work that well, and the best policy decisions come when central bankers look beyond those models to the unexpected forces shaping the economy.
Former Fed Chair Alan Greenspan famously did it in the 1990s when he argued against a rate hike at a time when rising productivity was holding down inflation, and arguably failed to do it when he ignored the impact of the tech and housing bubbles, Johns Hopkins University economics professor Jon Faust said in a paper presented at an annual Fed conference here.
In each case the point is the same: it was the extraordinary events outside of the basic inflation and output models used by central bankers that ultimately mattered most, argued Faust, who served as a special adviser to the Fed's board of governors until September 2014.
That approach "brings fears of 'seat-of-the-pants' policymaking and, for the more excitable, of barbarians at the central bank gates," Faust wrote.
But after reviewing the statistical models that try to separate underlying economic trends from other factors, Faust said he concluded it is those other factors that policymakers often need to understand and reflect in their decisions - something that can't be done through a rule.
"Normal cyclical dynamics ... have played a distinctly minor role in both the successes and failures" of monetary policy, Faust wrote. "Understanding ... confounding dynamics has always been the key to good policymaking and failure to understand those dynamics has played a key role in major policy mistakes."
Sophisticated econometric models of inflation, for example, may include "extra wiggles" in the forecast as inflation moves from its current rate to a long-run average, but on the whole do no better than a "mindless" line drawn between the two points, he said.
His argument has bearing for the push by Republicans in Congress and possibly by the party's eventual 2016 presidential nominee to tie the Fed to a policy rule.
Yellen is arguably facing a "seat-of-the-pants" moment now in judging whether it is time to raise rates, a call tied closely to her judgment about when and how fast inflation might rise to the Fed's 2 percent target.
That's a decision no model or rule will help with, Faust suggested.
"Policymakers must take a stand," he said.
(Reporting by Howard Schneider; Editing by Paul Simao)
ZURICH -- A form of debt restructuring rather than outright forgiveness should enable Greece to handle its "unviable" debt burden, the head of the International Monetary Fund was quoted as telling a Swiss newspaper. The IMF has yet to make clear whether it will participate in the third 86 billion euro ($96 billion) international bailout that Greece agreed to in early August, having argued in favor of a partial writedown of a debt burden it considers unsustainable in its current form.
Greece's eurozone creditors, notably Germany, have ruled out a writedown, but are willing to consider other forms of restructuring, such as a lengthening maturities. Concerning those differences, IMF Managing Director Christine Lagarde told Le Temps Saturday: "The debate on canceling the debt has never been open. I don't think it is necessary to open it if things go well. ... We are talking about extending maturities, reducing rates, [making] exemptions for a certain period of time. We are not speaking about canceling debt."
The interview made no mention of whether the IMF will take part in the new bailout: Lagarde has previously said the fund will make a decision about it by October.
No Chinese Hard Landing?
Turning to China, Lagarde said she expected the country's economic growth rate to remain close to previous estimates even if some sort of slowdown was inevitable after its rapid expansion.
China devalued its yuan currency this month after exports tumbled in July, spooking global markets worried that a main driver of growth was running out of steam.
"The slowdown was predictable, predicted, unavoidable," Lagarde was quoted as saying. "We expect that China will have a growth rate of 6.8 percent. It may be a little less." The IMF did not believe growth would fall to 4 or 4.5 percent, as some foresaw.
Noting that a drop in commodity prices had hit many emerging markets, Lagarde said those economies were "at the center of our attention."
($1 = 0.8946 euros)
(Reporting by Michael Shields and Shadia Nasralla; editing by John Stonestreet)
TORONTO (Reuters) - The owner of adultery website Ashley Madison had already been struggling to sell itself or raise funds for at least three years before the publication of details about its members, according to internal documents and emails also released by hackers as part of their assault on the company in recent weeks.
Some unnamed investors wanted out, multiple attempts to close a deal or raise funds failed, and a public market debut looked increasingly unlikely, the documents show.
Avid Life Media announced on Friday that CEO Noel Biderman, who founded the website in 2001, had left the company with immediate effect, the latest sign of the wrenching impact on the company of the attack that led to the disclosure of sensitive data about millions of clients.
In an April 2015 letter addressed to all its investors, closely-held Avid Life acknowledged that some investors had pressed it to improve liquidity so they could sell shares. The company said it would buy back up to $10 million worth of shares.
"Over the last couple of years, we have not been successful in exploring various alternatives including a sale of the business and seeking debt from third parties," said the letter signed by the board of directors.
Reuters could not independently verify the authenticity of the email messages and internal documents.
Avid Life did not respond to repeated requests for comment. Members of the company's board also could not be reached for comment. Biderman was not reachable by phone.
DILLER HOPES DASHED
The attack has likely sharply lowered the price Avid Life could muster in any sale of assets, assuming it could find a buyer willing to take on a company facing several multi-million dollars lawsuits and the challenge of rebuilding a computer network that has been so badly infiltrated.
Bankers told Reuters last month - before the massive disclosure of its customers' information - that a full data dump would create a 'doomsday scenario' for the company, and kill any IPO plan.
Several messages show that Biderman was trying to secure a meeting with executives at media mogul Barry Diller's IAC/InterActive Corp, whose biggest online dating assets, including Match.com and Tinder, are being prepared for a public market spinoff. Biderman's goal was to start acquisition talks with the much larger rival.
"They would be CRAZY not to speak with us," wrote Biderman in February this year. And in May: "If there was ever a moment to have a 'private' meeting with Diller, it is now."
But in an email message later forwarded to Biderman by an intermediary, one IAC director, Bryan Lourd, was blunt about the chances IAC might buy Ashley Madison: "They don't want it."
IAC declined to comment "on rumors and speculation about transactions."
Avid Life in April said it was considering an initial public offering in London, at a $1 billion valuation, with company executives expressing hope in media interviews that European investors would prove more understanding of the controversial business than those inNorth America.
The emails show that Biderman received an informal approach in May from Cliff Lerner, the CEO of Snap Interactive Inc , which owns the online dating site AYI.com. Lerner suggested a reverse takeover and a Nasdaq listing.
A spokesman for Snap said Lerner had a short back and forth email conversation with Avid Life representatives, but ultimately decided a deal wouldn't work.
By June, Biderman called the IPO a "long shot" in one email. He told an acquaintance, who helped put other companies’ financing deals together, that he was looking to raise between $50 million and $75 million in debt.
Similar efforts had fallen through before. Avid Life had a letter of intent from Fortress Credit Corp, part of Fortress Investment Group LLC , to borrow $43 million in September 2013, the documents the hackers released show, but the deal never went through.
"I can confirm that the proposed loan you referenced did not close," Gordon Runté, head of investor and media relations at Fortress, said in response to queries, declining to comment further on the reasons.
Avid Life had intended to use some of that cash to pay a dividend to its shareholders, the proposal, dated September 6, 2013, showed.
It also received a term sheet for a $40 million three-year loan from GMP Securities, a Canadian investment bank, in 2012.
GMP said the deal was not completed and it has never loaned Avid Life any money. It declined to specify why.
The emails also show that Avid Life came close to selling itself at least three times in 2012.
In one instance, a deal with Canadian billionaire Alex Shnaider and frozen yogurt mogulMichael Serruya fell apart because of CEO Biderman's "difficult and very demanding" personality, according to an email from the potential buyers. Two other attempted deals, with a boutique investment bank and a private equity firm, also fell apart.
Shnaider confirmed that he and Serruya wanted to strike a deal to acquire Avid Life and had agreement in principle to buy it. “We didn’t feel comfortable, at the end of the day, going through with the deal,” he said.
A spokesperson for Serruya did not immediately return calls.
(Editing by Amran Abocar and Martin Howell)
Tesla Motors Inc. is seeking to get the Obama administration to pressure Chinese President Xi Jinping to make it easier for U.S. automakers to operate in China, during his state visit to the U.S. next month, according to a report from the Wall Street Journal.
According to the Journal, Tesla's move comes as several new Chinese-backed electric car startups are emerging in the U.S., presenting a new wave of competition for Tesla. Foreign carmakers who wish to assemble vehicles in China must take on a Chinese partner, which presents them with challenges in operating there, and puts them at a disadvantage when compared with Chinese companies operating in the U.S.
“The China-owned companies are not expected to sell controlling stakes to American companies and are free from other trade hurdles that we face,” Tesla spokesman Ricardo Reyes told the paper.
Tesla's move comes as it is facing increasing competition in China from local firms.
One such firm is the Leshi Internet Info & Tech Corp., owned by billionaire Jia Yueting, which aims to unveil an electric car at the Beijing motor show in 2016, according to a report from Bidness Etc. China's government is aiming to boost sales of electric vehicles, as part of a range of measures it is perusing to curb the country's serious air pollution problem, and has been supportive of domestic entrepreneurs who want to invest in the industry.
The company also faces competition from the Youxia X in the country, which will be priced between $32,200 and $48,300, and compete with the upcoming Model 3. The Youxia X bears a striking similarity in its design to Tesla's Model S sedan.
Tesla made a poor start in the Chinese market. It failed to make its target of getting a third of its global sales from this country in 2014, and sold just 2,499 Model S units there last year, out of its 31,700 worldwide 2014 sales of the model, according to Seeking Alpha. The company has managed to make progress since its market debut in China, and now commands 80 percent of imported plug-in hybrid and electric vehicle sales.
Experts in Germany have raised doubts over the current search area for Malaysia Airlines Flight MH370, as confusion continues to linger over a flaperon’s link to the missing plane. Andreas Villwock of the Geomar Helmholtz Centre for Oceanography in Kiel said Friday that the search area in the southern Indian Ocean is thousands of miles off-target.
A wing part from a Boeing 777 aircraft that was discovered on the French island of Réunion "probably came from the eastern equatorial Indian Ocean," Villwock reportedly said. He added that the area from where the flaperon originated is thousands of miles from the previously presumed crash site at 35 degrees latitude south of the Equator. The experts came to this conclusion after using a model of ocean currents to guess its drift path, according to reports.
The Geomar institute reportedly said that it will give details on its findings at a news conference on Tuesday.
Flight MH370 went missing on March 8, 2014 with 239 people on board while on its way from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing. The discovery of the flaperon gave rise to hopes that the mystery over the plane's disappearance would finally be solved. However, French authorities examining the flaperon, which is the strongest piece of evidence to surface so far, have not confirmed its origin, even as Malaysian authorities said that it is from the missing Boeing 777-200.
Last week, Australia's Joint Agency Coordination Centre confirmed that the first phase of inspection work into the flaperon's origin has been concluded. Ten days have passed since then with no information.
Meanwhile, French newspaper la Dépêche du Midi, said, citing experts, that there is no guarantee that the piece of debris actually originated from the missing plane.
“Nothing permits it to be 100 percent certified as belonging to MH370," la Dépêche reported, according to the Inquisitr.
Despite more than a year of search, no significant plane parts have been found except for the flaperon. Malaysia, Australia and China are expected to hold a meeting early September to determine whether the search area of 46,332 square miles in the southern Indian Ocean should be narrowed down.
Now that the brakes are being applied to China’s economy, automakers are bracing for impact. Lured by China’s rapidly growing rates of household wealth and low level of car ownership, the world’s top car manufacturers have been piling billions of dollars’ worth of investments into an auto market that surpassed the United States at the world’s largest in 2009.
But now that China’s economy is slowing to a rate unseen in over two decades, local demand for foreign marques like Chevrolet, Volkswagen and BMW is withering, forcing automakers to slash prices, adjust their global profitability goals and confront a marketplace that won’t be able to soak up all of the vehicles being produced and sold locally.
“You’re looking at a Chinese auto market that peaked in profitability last year and is peaking in sales volume this year,” said Steven Szakaly, chief economist at the U.S. National Automobile Dealers Association. “The growth rate in China, and the rate of its debt growth, has been unsustainable, and now we’re seeing this year the start of a prolonged slowdown.”
That slowdown has been in the works for more than a year.
China new-car sales increased 6.9 percent last year, to about 23 million, compared with a 13.9 percent increase in 2013, according to the China Association of Automobile Manufacturers (CAAM). This is a far cry from the average 24 percent annual growth from 2005 to 2011 that saw China rocket past the U.S. as the world’s top car consumer.
This nearly 50 percent growth reduction occurred in a market that is crucial to automakers. Last year, the world bought about 87 million new passenger cars, according to IHS Automotive; a fourth of those were sold in China.
A Buick flag flies beside a Chinese flag at a General Motors dealership in Shanghai Dec. 6, 2011. Buick, the oldest living U.S. car brand, is immensely popular in China. General Motors is the second-biggest foreign car company operating in China after Volkswagen.  Photo: Peter Parks/AFP/Getty Images
“Global manufactures have been depending on China for a while,” said John Humphrey, senior vice president of global automotive operations at J.D. Power and Associates, a global marketing research provider. “But right now China has far more vehicle brands and models than in any other market, and low single-digit growth is not enough to deal with that overcapacity.”
China’s new-car sales dropped a hard 7 percent in July, the lowest level in 17 months, while production plunged 12 percent, according to the latest CAAM data.
Volkswagen AG and General Motors Company, the dominate foreign players in the Chinese market, both sell more than 30 percent of their vehicles in China and have the most to lose. German luxury carmakers like Mercedes-Benz owner Daimler AG also depend heavily on Chinese wealth. Earlier this month BMW AG said its profits for the year could be impacted by the Chinese downturn.
"Dealers are gritting their teeth," secretary-general of the China Auto Dealers Chamber of Commerce Zhu Kongyuan, told Bloomberg. "People won’t buy cars if they think their money bags will shrink. There are no magic tricks here."
Volkswagen AG, the world's largest automaker, and Daimler have seen their stock tumble nearly 11 percent in a month while General Motors has dropped more than 7 percent despite its strong performance in the U.S. SUV and truck market. Toyota is down more than 9 percent.
Despite the downturn in the Chinese economy, experts point out that China remains a market with immense long-term growth prospects, which is why most global manufacturers have invested billions of dollars in recent years building factories, forming joint ventures and setting up dealership networks. China may be slowing down for now, but it’s not going anywhere.
“The global manufacturers are bullish on the long-term prospects in China,” said Humphrey. “All you need to do is look at the demographics. The average age of a Chinese car buyer is early 30s compared to 51 or 52 in the U.S. There’s plenty of room for growth.”
For all the gains Twitter made with bringing women and Hispanics onto its team over the past year, the tech firm had just as many losses for African-Americans, according to the San Francisco company's 2015 diversity report released Friday.
With women, Twitter saw a gain of 4 percentage points since July 2014, bringing its female representation up to 34 percent. Hispanics saw a 1 percentage point gain at the company and now account for 4 percent of Twitter's U.S. workforce.
But for African-Americans, Twitter actually took a step back. The company's U.S. workforce representation of African-Americans remained at just 2 percent while African-American representation within Twitter's leadership ranks fell from 2 percent to none.
"Twitter has made virtually no progress in hiring Blacks and Latinos this past year," said Rev. Jesse Jackson in a statement. "While Blacks and Latinos over-index in using Twitter, they are virtually absent from in the boardroom, c-suites and workforce of the company. That is unacceptable."

Twitter outlined public goals it will strive for in 2016, a step most diversity experts say is necessary if tech companies' hope to make progress with inclusiveness. Twitter joins the likes of Intel, Pinterest and Yelp by doing this. Additionally, the company outlined a number of new ways it hopes to find more diverse candidates, which include recruiting at historically black colleges and Hispanic-serving institutions, as well as teaming up with organization like #YesWeCode and Management Leaders of Tomorrow.
"Today we’ve outlined what we believe progress should look like. We expect to come back to you next year and show we’ve delivered, and to be held accountable to it," Twitter said in a blog post.
When it comes to women, Twitter said its goals are to reach 35 percent overall representation, 16 percent representation in tech roles and 25 percent representation in leadership positions. For underrepresented minorities, the tech firm said it's aiming to reach 11 percent overall representation, 9 percent in tech positions and 6 percent when it comes to leadership.

"It's entirely clear to me that anytime we have business outcomes we want to achieve, setting goals is critical," said Joelle Emerson, founder and CEO of Paradigm, a strategy firm that helps tech companies become more diverse. "I'm thrilled Twitter has taken this important first step."
While Twitter's decision to set goals was praised by some diversity leaders including Jackson, others said the company set the bar far too low and did not outline any clear path toward achieving its objectives.
"Twitter's goals are disappointing. The way they have mapped it out, it will be 2031 before they achieve parity for women overall, which is the easiest goal to achieve," said Melinda Briana Epler, co-founder of the Tech Inclusion Conference. "Increasing underrepresented minorities in leadership roles from 0-6% is an admirable goal. None of the programs they outline in their blog post address how they will do this. This requires a cultural shift that requires serious work. I look forward to seeing how they will make it happen."
More than ten thousand miles from Beijing, in the barren plateau of Chile’s Atacama Desert, beleaguered miners are feeling the impact of China’s economic slowdown.
“This is a very, very difficult moment for countries that had banked on commodity exports to China,” says Cynthia Arnson, the director of the Latin American Program at the Woodrow Wilson Center for International Scholars, a Washington-based think tank.
Indeed, the economy of a nation that is by far the world’s largest copper producer relies heavily on the ductile metal. It makes up about half of Chile’s exports, and 40 percent of those shipments flow to China. But as Chinese demand has fallen -- the result of a now-cooling construction and real estate boom -- so, too, have prices for the commodity. That has cut into the profits of mining companies. And now, they’re asking workers to help pick up the tab.
The Chinese slowdown looms over high-intensity contract talks between Chile’s state-owned mining company and the miners’ union, fueling tension that has boiled over into protests, strikes, violence and, occasionally, death.
Late last month workers went on strike at seven state-owned mines, shutting down two with barricades. In the early hours of July 24, police special forces stormed the barricade at the El Salvador Mine -- at one point firing a shot that killed miner Nelson Quichillao Lopez -- ramping up mutual feelings of distrust and animosity.
A girl holds up a placard that reads "Our cooper stained with blood" during a protest at the site where Nelson Quichillao was shot dead while blocking a road to the El Salvador copper mine. Photo: Reuters/Stringer
From the perspective of industry, it's time for some uncomfortable belt-tightening. Calling for labor peace after the escalation of financially damaging strikes last month, the president of state-run copper giant Codelco criticized the generous terms of the company’s last labor agreement -- forged during an industry growth period of 2013. “A rise in these benefits and their associated costs aren’t compatible with the current conditions of the copper market, of the economic reality of the country and the sustainability of structural projects,” Nelson Pizarro said, in Spanish.
The miners’ union blasts that line of reasoning and says Codelco -- the world’s largest copper company -- can easily afford to swallow the decline in revenue instead of kicking over the bill to its workforce. In a press release last month, in Spanish, the union accused the company of “hiding” the fact that “during the great copper bonanza,” most of the wealth flowed into the “pockets of the company.”
Either way, national authorities are on watch. Copper prices have fallen 51 percent ($4.59 to $2.24) from a peak hit in February 2011, according to Commodity Exchange data.
On Thursday, the country’s finance minister said that Chile would be forced to borrow money on international markets amid declining state revenues.
“We’re entering a period in which we’ll have very little revenues from copper,” Rodrigo Valdes told a national television station on Thursday. “That means we’ll have a bigger deficit and will need to borrow some funds.”
Arnson says Chilean authorities are, to some degree, equipped to handle this sort of downturn. “It has solid financial institutions, an independent central bank and has also made efforts to move up the value chain into processing of primary commodities,” she says. “With that said, the structure of the Chilean economy has not changed all that much.”
But it’s not alone, she says. Other countries are hurting from the downturn, like Peru, which also exports metals to China, and Argentina and Brazil, which both export soy to China.
“I don’t think any country in Latin America has done enough to diversify the base of support,” she continues. “Every major commodity and food exporter in the region is feeling the effect.”
Former U.S. President George W. Bush returned to New Orleans on Friday for the 10th anniversary of Hurricane Katrina, the disaster that killed more than 1,200 people with subsequent flooding and marked one of the lowest points of his presidency, at least domestically. He was slated to give remarks at Warren Easton Charter High School, the same place where he spoke on the first anniversary of the storm, when he promised, "We will do what it takes to help you recover."
Yet his disaster management approach was largely hands off, even though his administration poured tens of billions of dollars into it. He came under intense criticism for a federal response broadly characterized as delayed, politicized and ultimately negligent, riddled with mistakes and personal blunders. Bush famously told Michael Brown, then the director of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, that he was doing "a heck of a job," a few days after the disaster when $100 million in ice ordered by FEMA to preserve food and medicine for victims was not delivered.

Bush has visited New Orleans frequently since Katrina, according to his office, the Associated Press reported. On the first anniversary of the disaster, one of the reasons he chose Warren Easton Charter was because it was one of the few success stories in the storm's aftermath. One of the oldest public schools in the city, it reopened as a charter school in 2006, even as many of its students were classified as homeless.
"I take full responsibility for the federal government's response, and a year ago I made a pledge that we will learn the lessons of Katrina and that we will do what it takes to help you recover," he said during that visit. Congress had committed more than $110 billion to disaster recovery, he added. "I felt it was important that our government be generous to the people who suffered. I felt that step one of a process of recovery and renewal is money."
Yet Bush also emphasized the role of the private sector in rebuilding the parts of Louisiana and Mississippi ravaged by the hurricane. "I see an incredibly bright future for the entrepreneur. A lot of the revitalization of New Orleans and the area -- surrounding area -- is going to come because there's more businesses opening and more shops reopening," he said. "The private sector has a responsibility to help down here."
George W Bush is in #NOLA this AM, &amp; Aaron Grant,35, is only protestor here thus far. #Katrina10 @thedailybeast pic.twitter.com/r7rQNDFwy8
&mdash; Amy K. Nelson (@AmyKNelson) August 28, 2015
He promised: "New Orleans is going to rise again, and by planting your corporate flag here now and contributing to this city's rebirth, you'll gain some loyal customers when times get better."
In June, New Orleans' 6.7 percent unemployment rate was notably higher than overall unemployment in the U.S. of 5.5 percent, according to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics. Many have labeled the area's recovery as uneven, favoring low-wage jobs and widening the economic disparities between races. Unemployment for blacks in New Orleans, who make up more than 60 percent of the city's population, was 13 percent in 2013, while it was 6 percent for whites, a report newly released by the Urban League of Greater New Orleans showed.
The British economy grew for the 10th consecutive quarter, with the gross domestic product (GDP) increasing by 0.7 percent, figures from the Office for National Statistics said Friday. Exports, rising 3.9 percent over the previous three months, helped drive the growth. The figures cover the second quarter, April through June.
Of course, global economic uncertainty followed China's “Black Monday,” when the country's stock market plunged following the devaluation of the yuan currency, and a subsequent 1,000-point drop in the Dow Jones Industrial Average, so those events could have an effect on the British economy in the near future.
Increases in oil and gas production, household consumption and the services sector have all helped to ensure growth in Britain, and government expenditures remained steady for the second quarter, at 0.9 percent.

Low oil and food prices have kept inflation at a low level, giving British citizens room to spend. Household consumption was up 0.7 percent, rising for the 16th consecutive quarter. Output from hotels and restaurants also increased by 1 percent in the second quarter.
While trade has helped the British economy continue its growth, growing by 1 percentage point, it’s unclear if it will remain strong. The strength of the British currency is making the country’s exports more expensive in a time of economic uncertainty stemming from China and lower demand in Asia and other parts of Europe.
The strong economy has edged the Bank of England toward an interest rate increase, as well as a tighter monetary policy. However, market volatility this week has made the timing of any increase uncertain. Speaking to Bloomberg Television, Liz Martins, an economist at HSBC Bank, underscored that economic volatility this week may slightly delay a decision by the Bank of England.
“There’s been some turmoil and from the market perspective, expectations have been pushed back a bit, but I think it’s possible that some of those expectations have been overdone,” Martins said.
A senior economist at Capital Economics told Financial Times that low inflation in Britain and wage growth bode well for the near term. “The economic recovery will sustain its current pace in the second half of 2015,” Samuel Tombs said.
The U.S. central bank shouldn't change its economic agenda as a result of the market meltdown in China, St. Louis Fed President James Bullard said Friday. America's economy and financial markets have emerged relatively unscathed from the recent crisis, so the central bank's Federal Open Market Committee should proceed as planned with raising interest rates next month, he said, as Bloomberg reported.
"The key question for the committee is, how much would you want to change the outlook based on the volatility that we’ve seen over the last 10 days, and I think the answer to that is going to be: not very much,” Bullard said. 
Authorities have long said they intend to raise interest rates this year for the first time since 2006. The committee was expected to make the decision official at its Sept. 16-17 meeting. But China's economic slowdown -- and the resulting market panic -- has caused some experts to waver in their conviction and revealed a lack of consensus among Fed officials about the propriety of an interest-rate hike.

New York Fed President William Dudley said Wednesday that hiking interest rates seemed "less compelling" in light of recent events. Minneapolis Fed President Narayana Kocherlakota told CNBC he didn't think raising interest rates was appropriate this year because it would indicate the bank can't reach its goal of 2 percent inflation.
Not everyone agreed. Cleveland Fed President Loretta Mester said the markets' volatility "hasn’t so far changed my basic outlook that the U.S. economy is solid and it could support an increase in interest rates." Bullard seemed to take her side, telling Reuters the market roller coaster wasn't "so radical" that it should cause the committee to switch gears.
“You’ve really got the same trajectory that the committee will be looking at that we were looking at before, so why would we change strategy, which was basically to lift off at some point?" he said.
Yet others just wanted the Fed to definitively choose one path or another. “It’s better for the U.S. to make a decision,” Indonesian Finance Minister Bambang Brodjonegoro told the Wall Street Journal. “What makes the financial markets volatile is the uncertainty.”
Brazil’s economy shrank by 1.9 percent in the year’s second quarter, official figures show, sending the world's seventh-largest economy into recession, the BBC reported. Many experts expected the slide: Brazil's growth has fallen partly due to low commodity prices, slow global growth and high interest rates. But the percentage of the decline was sharper than anticipated.
Consumer spending is one of the key drivers of Brazil’s economy, but it has been hit hard by 14.25 percent interest rates. Spending by households dropped 2.1 percent between April and June compared to the prior quarter, and construction output dropped 8.4 percent, all while taxes have increased. Investments also have fallen in Brazil for the eighth consecutive quarter and unemployment is at its highest level in five years, CNBC reported. 
Years ago, Brazil was on the rise, thanks largely to commodity purchases by China -- such as iron ore, beef and oil. But that boom slowed about four years ago, and China's recent economic slowdown has hurt as well. In the past year, Brazil's stock market has dropped 22 percent and its currency has lost much of its value, the Wall Street Journal reported Friday.
Brazil’s current economic state is dogging President Dilma Rousseff’s approval rating. She has tried to restore consumer and investor confidence by cutting spending and stopping the rate of inflation, but the efforts have achieved few results. That failure and news of a possible kickback scandal have dropped Rousseff’s approval rating into the single digits, CNBC reported.
South America’s largest economy sank into a recession last year around the same time, its first slide in more than five years. The economy shrank by 0.6 percent, worse than economic experts expected. Despite that setback, Rousseff was reelected in October 2014, defeating challengers Aécio Neves and Marina Silva.
 
BRICS Collapse: First, Russian currency crisis, now China&#39;s economy on the cliff, South Africa on slip-slop, Brazil economy just shrunk 1.9%
&mdash; Brighton Musonza (@bmusonza) August 28, 2015
“Falling consumer confidence and a worsening labor market move hand in hand,” Cristiano Oliveira, chief economist at Banco Fibra in São Paulo, told the Wall Street Journal. “We’re going to see demand slow down even more in the next few quarters, and I don’t see anything that can change that.”
A wild ride for global markets this week was set to end in the red but more subdued. U.S. stocks opened lower Friday after surging a day earlier on China’s announcement of new stimulus measures to check its rapidly cooling economy, which has spooked the markets.
“It’s a Friday in August at the end of a wild week, so it wouldn’t surprise me if we ended down today coming off huge gains over the last two days,” said Stuart Hoffman, chief economist at PNC Financial Services. “Unlike the last eight days, the next week or two could see a net gain of flat to up with a lot of heart palpitations.”
The Dow Jones Industrial Average (INDEXDJX:.DJI) opened down 62.50 points, or 0.38 percent, to 16,592.27. The Standard & Poor's 500 index (INDEXSP:.INX) was down 3.18 points, or 0.16 percent, to 1,984.70. And the Nasdaq composite (INDEXNASDAQ:.IXIC) shed 6.19 points, or 0.16 percent, to 4,804.63.
Data released Friday morning on consumer confidence shows Americans’ outlook for the U.S. economy at a three-month low. The University of Michigan consumer sentiment index for August fell to 91.9 from 93.1 in July, largely because of a big drop in the last half of the month as consumers watched stocks plunge over rising concerns about the Chinese economy, the world’s second largest.
European stocks were headed toward closing slightly down. The German Dax was in the red by 0.67 percent while France’s CAC 40 dipped 0.28 percent. Japan’s Nikkei rallied 3.03 percent after Tokyo reported a drop in unemployment and data showing a diminished risk of Japan falling back into deflation. Shanghai’s benchmark index increased nealy 5 percent after the People’s Bank of China announced it would inject 140 billion yuan ($22 billion) into the financial system in a new easing effort.
U.S. stocks got a little boost in premarket trading after U.S. Department of Commerce data released before markets opened Friday showed Americans had a little more money to spend. U.S. personal income increased 0.4 percent and consumer spending rose 0.3 percent in July.
This data is the Federal Reserve’s preferred measure of inflation, a key metric that will determine when the Fed will decide to raise interest rates for the first time in nearly a decade. The data shows core inflation dipped slightly to 1.7 percent, below the Fed’s 2 percent target it considers the minimum needed to avoid deflationary risks to the economy. The Fed has said the economy needs to be swinging toward 2 percent before it decides to raise the cost of borrowing across the economy.
The next chance to see the direction of U.S. monetary policy will come this weekend when central bankers convene in Jackson Hole, Wyoming, for the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City’s annual economic symposium. Fed Chairwoman Janet Yellen is skipping the event, but Vice Chairman Stanley Fischer will offer the latest insight into the Fed’s outlook.
Oil prices were trading lower Friday after surging more than 10 percent on Thursday in their best day since March 2009. U.S. crude was down 1.1 percent to $42.09 a barrel while Brent, the global oil benchmark, fell 1.37 percent to $46.91. Prices under $50 are considered too low for U.S. drilling to be profitable.
A government office in Thailand said Friday that the Aug. 17 Erawan shrine bombing that killed 20 people would have little impact on the economy, predicting it would  take only 0.05 percent off of the country’s gross domestic product, according to a report from local English-language newspaper the Bangkok Post. The Fiscal Policy Office’s Deputy Director General Ekniti Nitithanprapas said that the tourism-dependent nation is expected to see a downturn in holiday travelers with a loss of approximately 300,000 foreign visitors over the next several months.
“The bombing will certainly not cause a huge impact to the number of foreign tourists, as feared by many people,” Nitithanprapas said. “The tourism sector will return to normal in time for the [November-April] high season. Tourism will continue to be an important factor supporting the growth of the Thai economy.”
While the Thai government is reporting a quick bounce-back, The Telegraph reported that the bombing has caused a 17 percent drop in tourists, with daily arrivals to the Southeast Asian nation falling to 70,000 a day from 85,000. However, the head of the World Travel and Tourism Council told the Telegraph that he expects tourism numbers to rebound and has not seen any mass cancellations in vacations for the next six months. 
Revenue from tourism makes up approximately 7 percent to 10 percent of Thailand’s gross domestic product. Nitithanprapas told the Bangkok Post that he believes Thailand’s economic growth will hit 3 percent despite the attack.
The Erawan shrine, a Hindu site popular with Buddhists and tourists, has reopened since the bombing in a busy area of Bangkok. Thailand’s Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-ocha said the bombing was the worst ever attack on his country. Fourteen tourists were among those killed in the blast and other tourists sustained injuries. The youngest victim was a 4-year-old girl, according to reports.
Without naming the suspect, Thai police said on Friday that it had issued a warrant in the attack. However, no one has claimed responsibility for the attack and motives remain unclear.
Thailand's tourism sector has managed to bounce back from previous instability, including political unrest in 2014 and the massive Indian Ocean tsunami in 2004.
SHANGHAI -- China has relaxed rules on property sales to foreigners, in a move seen as aimed at boosting the country’s real estate sector amid a slowing economy.
Rules that required foreigners to live in the country for a year before they could invest in property are to be abolished, the country’s commerce ministry said late Thursday. Limits on the number of properties foreign indviduals and businesses can purchase will also be relaxed, according to state media. Since 2010, foreign buyers have only been allowed to own one property for their personal use.
The new rules would also make foreign businesses exempt from paying their company’s full registered capital to the Chinese authorities before taking out loans to buy real estate.
Restriction on property sales to foreigners were first introduced in 2006, in an effort to prevent speculation and cool a real estate market that was seen to be overheating, and in the process pricing many ordinary Chinese citizens out of the centers of major cities.
The reversal of the policy is another reminder of the current pressures on the Chinese economy -- and the real estate sector in particular. After many years when it was a major motor of Chinese economic growth -- with new construction creating a huge demand for steel, concrete and other raw materials -- the country's property market has slowed dramatically over the past three years. Further regulations, restricting access to housing loans for Chinese citizens, and a generally slower economy, saw growth in real estate sales slump.
The knock-on effect on industry, and local governments, which have previously derived at least 30 percent of their income from land sales has been significant. Investment in new property development fell to about 4.3 percent in the first seven months of the year from around 14 percent a year earlier, Bloomberg reported this week. 
Many developers have been struggling to move unsold housing stock. Some, including Shenzhen developer Kaisa, have experienced financial problems. Kaisa became the first Chinese firm to default on a foreign currency denominated bond payment earlier this year, though it has now resumed trading in several Chinese cities.
And with other sectors of the economy seeing slower growth too, the authorities have begun relaxing some of the restrictions on property purchases by domestic investors over the past year.
Extending the relaxation of rules to foreign buyers is now possible because the market has "matured" in recent years, one Chinese analyst told the China Daily. The paper said foreign purchases would no longer distort the market, since demand would be “marginal compared with the huge inventories across the nation.”
Analysts said China’s recent cut in interest rates and, this month’s devaluation of the yuan, may make Chinese property more attractive to foreign buyers. However some restrictions will remain in individual cities -- Shanghai currently limits foreign buyers to a single property in the city, while Beijing has similar limits.
And the Shanghai Daily newspaper suggested that the impact of the change would be relatively limited, since foreign investment still accounts for a small proportion of China’s real estate sector -- just 0.5 percent of home purchases last year, according to some estimates, while total sales of housing to foreigners amounted to 18.5 billion yuan (about $2.9 billion) in the seven months to July -- down almost a quarter on a year earlier, according to the South China Morning Post.
Observers also said that Chinese prices are now significantly higher than they were when the restrictions on foreign purchases were first introduced, which is likely to deter speculation.
And despite the recent slowdown, signs of the boom in China’s real estate market over the past decade remain. China’s richest man, Wang Jianlin, gained his wealth from heading one of the country’s biggest property developers, Dalian Wanda. Despite reportedly seeing more than $3 billion wiped off his personal fortune in stock market falls earlier this week, Wang's businesses have continued their aggressive policy of overseas acquisitions. Wanda this week spent $650 million to buy World Triathlon Corp, the U.S. based company that organizes Ironman endurance competitions. Earlier this year it also bought stakes in Spanish soccer club Atletico Madrid, and Swiss-based sport marketing company Infront Sports and Media.
Yet in current market conditions, even Wanda has shown signs of consolidating. Though it has announced plans for a continuing expansion of its mixed-use Wanda Plazas around China, it is increasingly seeking to use outside funds to pay for projects. As well as a planned share listing in China later this year, Wanda has also announced a tie-up to develop projects jointly with Vanke, China’s biggest residential property developer. And Wang Jianlin is reported to have said this week that China may have to get used to a GDP growth rate of 5 percent or 6 percent, compared to the current official target of 7 percent for the year.
SHANGHAI -- Positive news from the U.S. economy, and a sense of greater government support for China’s markets, saw Asian shares continue to make up some of their losses from earlier in the week, with only Hong Kong bucking the trend.
Reports that China’s state pension funds could invest over $300 billion in the markets encouraged further rises on China’s bourses. After its 5.3 percent rebound Thursday, following a week of dramatic losses, the main Shanghai Composite Index closed up 4.8 percent at 3,232, after posting strong late gains. Share values were still down some 7 percent on the week, following their 16 percent plunge from "Black Monday" to Tuesday -- but analysts said the sense of crisis that had engulfed the market has been averted, at least for the time being.  The secondary index in Shenzhen also continued its rebound, closing 5.4 percent higher, while the ChiNext index for high-tech companies, which had dropped fastest, finished more than 6.2 percent up on the day, at 2,082. 
The gains came after Vice Minister of Human Resources and Social Security You Jun said the country's local pension funds could start investing up to 30 percent of their assets -- some two trillion yuan or around $313 billion -- in the stock market "as soon as possible." 
Also on Friday, the People’s Bank of China injected 60 billion yuan ($9.39 billion) into the country’s banking system to help ease short-term liquidity needs, according to Reuters. This marks the second time this week that the central bank has issued such loans to reduce fluctuations in liquidity and stabilize funding costs between banks. The bank had, on Wednesday, announced a cash injection of 140 billion yuan ($21.8 billion) into the interbank money market.
A second day of gains on the Dow and other Western markets, along with stronger than expected U.S. growth figures, also contributed to a rise in other Asian markets, which had already been boosted by suggestions that the U.S. was not likely to raise interest rates next month. In Japan the Nikkei continued to rise, finishing the day just over 3 percent higher -- though leaving it 1.5 percent down on the week. The rise in price of oil and other commodities boosted stocks of steel companies and those in the energy sector, though analysts said short-selling remained high, suggesting some anxiety remained.
Australia’s ASX 200 also rose Friday, closing almost 0.6 percent up, while Singapore’s Straits Times Index gained 1.2 percent. South Korea’s Kospi Index closed more than 1.5 percent higher while in India the Sensex was up almost 0.7 percent in afternoon trading.
The only major loser was Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index, which soared almost 3 percent in early trading, before falling back in the afternoon to close just over one percent lower at 21,612.
Chinese officials continued to seek to cool anxiety about a slowdown in the nation's economy. A senior official from the People’s Bank of China told Reuters that the falls on world markets earlier this week were not caused by Beijing’s recent devaluation of its currency, but were rather the result of worries that the U.S. might raise interest rates.
A commentary in China’s official Global Times newspaper, meanwhile, said Western countries were using China as a scapegoat for their own economic woes, saying that “bubbles made by U.S. quantitative easing” were partly to blame.
And Chinese police have continued an investigation into “malicious short-selling,” which officials say is partly to blame for the recent volatility on the country’s stock markets -- which lost more than 40 percent of their value in two months before Thursday’s rebound. Two more executives from leading brokerage CITIC Securities were detained by police Thursday, Hong Kong’s South China Morning Post reported Friday. Several other brokerages are also reported to be under investigation.
Stock markets across Europe, which made modest early gains Friday after a buoyant performance in Asian bourses, pared their profits and are now in the red. The pan-European STOXX 600 opened over 0.1 percent higher but later fell 0.7 percent. Early gains on London’s FTSE 100 also fizzled out, and the index is now trading slightly down at 6,183.3 points.
The German DAX and France’s CAC 40 are both down over 0.5 percent as investors exercise caution after an extremely volatile week in global equity markets.
“Uncertainties regarding China and the emerging world are likely to linger,” Shane Oliver, head of investment strategy at AMP Capital, told the New York Times Friday, after Asian shares reported strong profit during the day’s trade. However, he added, “despite the recent set-back, share markets are likely to remain in a broad rising trend.”
The People’s Bank of China injected 60 billion yuan ($9.39 billion) into the country’s banking system through short-term liquidity operations (SLOs) Friday, according to Reuters. This marks the second time this week that the central bank has issued SLO loans to reduce fluctuations in liquidity and stabilize interbank funding costs. The bank had, on Wednesday, announced a cash injection of 140 billion yuan ($21.8 billion) into the interbank money market.
The gains in Asia were led by Japan’s Nikkei 225, which closed 3 percent higher, and the Shanghai Composite index, which gained 4.8 percent.
The mixed picture in Europe comes a day after all major indexes in the U.S. closed more than 2 percent higher, recouping a huge chunk of losses accrued during the sharp six-day slump. However, at 4.30 a.m. EDT Friday, U.S. stock index futures were down nearly 0.7 percent, with the Dow indicating losses of 114 points at the open.
After Thursday’s strong revised estimate of U.S. second-quarter GDP growth, oil prices also soared more than 10 percent -- their biggest gain in six years. Currently, however, Brent crude is down 0.6 percent at $47.28 a barrel.
The American Chamber of Commerce (AmCham) in China -- a nonprofit helping American companies doing business in China -- urged Beijing to open up its service industries, including insurance, healthcare and retail, to foreign competitors. In a report released Friday, the nonprofit said that “market openness” could help the country stabilize its volatile stock markets and reduce dependence on trade to drive economic growth.
“An open, dynamic and innovative service sector has the potential to transform China’s economy,” AmCham China Chairman James Zimmerman said, in a statement accompanying the report. “Unlocking the potential of services in areas such as the financial sector, healthcare, education, and logistics would bring immense benefits to Chinese people and the companies they work for.”
The report comes at a time when China’s weak export and manufacturing data, and a rout in the stock markets, have raised concerns over the health of the world’s second-largest economy. The downturn -- which has resulted in China’s stock markets losing more than 40 percent since peaking in June -- has also cast doubts over policymakers’ commitment to plans for market reforms.
However, Zimmerman said that the recent economic downturn should encourage the Chinese government to open faster.
“For the Chinese economy's own good, they need to move faster,” Zimmerman reportedly said during a press conference Friday.
Lester Ross, AmCham’s deputy chairman, said that opening up the market could also help China prevent disasters like the recent chemical explosion in Tianjin, which killed at least 145 people. According to an earlier estimate by the Credit Suisse Group, insurance claims over the disaster may reach as high as $1.5 billion.
Ross added that China’s insurance industry lacks the experience of foreign insurers at spotting potential risks and ways to mitigate them.
“The more of that China has, the less likely it would be that it's going to have casualties and disasters like those we have recently seen,” he reportedly said.
The chamber also expressed concerns over the impact of China’s lack of transparency in regulatory decisions and government support for state-run companies on foreign investors in the country.
“Numerous service industries in China face an uneven playing field due to government support for state-owned enterprises and designated oligopolies within their sectors,” AmCham said, in the statement. “Such government preferences, and the benefits the state-owned enterprises receive, restrict both foreign and domestic companies’ ability to operate in the market."
SHANGHAI -- At the small café Wu Liang runs in a quiet backstreet in downtown Shanghai, it’s easy to see that China’s stock market bubble has gone distinctly flat. Just a couple of months ago, the market, which had boomed for almost a year, luring in tens of millions of new investors, was the only topic of conversation for the local men in their fifties and sixties who gather around the plain, vinyl-topped tables, to while away their afternoons chatting.
These days the men, many of them workers who were laid off or took early retirement from local state-run enterprises, seem more preoccupied with the situation in the Middle East and the rise of the Islamic State group. Wu Liang himself, who could previously be found poring over his laptop watching the latest market moves and talking up the long-term prospects for the market, now says he’s “not paying much attention.”
With China’s markets having lost 40 percent of their value since early June, some individual investors have pulled out altogether. Back in mid-July, Jane Zhang, who works for a publisher in Shanghai, told International Business Times that the falls that had wiped 20 percent off the stock market’s value in the preceding weeks would not put her off investing in the future.
“The government sees the markets as very important to the economy,” she said. “So I still have some faith in their development in the long-term.”
Now, after a further plunge of more than 20 percent in a week, Zhang has changed her tune: “I’m not in the market anymore,” she says. “I want to take a break for a while, then we’ll see.”
Yet though she says the regulation of the markets in China is not up to international standards, Zhang does not seem to blame the government for the falls, which erased most of the profit she had made during the bull run earlier in the year. She’s not angry or disappointed, she says, just baffled by the roller-coaster ride: “I really don’t quite understand what’s been going on,” she admits. “I want to try to figure out what happened before I do anything else."
And despite the turmoil, some investors still remain optimistic. Not far from Wu’s café, Zhao Jianzhong, a middle-aged newspaper vendor, says he’s been investing in the market for years, and is not going to panic now. “My investments are just sleeping,” he explains. “I’m not pulling out. I think the market’s hit its bottom -- it can’t go down much further anyway!”
Zhao is critical of some aspects of market regulation: “It’s never beneficial to us small investors,” he says. But he still believes the government will eventually ensure that the market stabilizes. “This market is all about policy -- and we still have faith in the government.” he grins.  
Such attitudes may be music to the ears of China’s leaders. Some observers have accused them of making it too easy for investors to borrow money to buy shares, thus pumping up values earlier this year; while some members of the public have been critical of a commentator in the People’s Daily newspaper, who said when the market reached 4,000 points in April that this was just the start of a long bull run. (The market did peak briefly at around 5,200 points, but has been trading this week at around the 3,000 mark.)
For a government anxious about its legitimacy as China’s economy slows, avoiding a public backlash over the stock market boom and bust is important. In July the government took a series of steps to prop up the markets, injecting billions of dollars in funds, and making major brokerages promise to buy more shares, and not to sell their existing holdings.
And another of the tools the government can deploy to prevent criticism is its control of China’s media. While the Shanghai stock market’s 22 percent fall in the four trading days to this Wednesday may have made headlines around the world, it didn’t even get onto the front pages of most of China’s newspapers. Thursday’s headlines in two of Shanghai’s most popular papers, for example, focused on local education reforms -- and a new type of shatter-resistant plate glass. China’s biggest web portal, Sina.com, ran only a small story about the market volatility, halfway down its homepage.
Market coverage in many papers over recent days has been restricted to reassuring commentaries emphasizing that China’s economic fundamentals remain sound, and, on Thursday, reports of the investigation of 11 people accused of violating stock market regulations -- a story that seemed to send a message that problems in the market were the result of illegal behavior.
“I really haven’t seen much quality analysis of the stock market situation in the Chinese media,” one Chinese media expert, who asked not to be named, told IBTimes.
Shanghai stocks closed down 1.27 percent in volatile trading Thursday, extending days of falls despite a central bank interest-rate cut aimed at boosting the flagging economy and slumping shares, dealers said. The Saudi stock market's rebound suggested investors have gained some confidence, at least for the short term, but the fate of oil prices remains uncertain. Pictured: An investor gestures as he checked share prices at a securities firm in Shanghai, Aug. 26, 2015.  Photo: STR/Agence France-Presse/Getty Images
Hu Xingdou, a professor of economics at the Beijing Institute of Technology, agreed. “The media has to put a positive spin on things as much as possible,” he told IBTimes. “The official line is to emphasize ‘positive energy’ -- to praise more and criticize less. So even if the market is falling, they still need to say that we’re full of confidence. The mainstream media is not allowed to investigate any deeper causes of the falling market -- they may just give a few superficial reasons.”
Wednesday’s detention of a journalist from Caijing magazine, one of China’s more independently-minded financial news outlets, might discourage critical coverage even further. State media said Wang Xiaolu was accused of spreading “false information,” assumed to be a reference to a story she published in late July, which contradicted the official line by saying that the authorities might not continue with their measures to prop up the markets indefinitely.
Yet there are still critical voices on China’s Internet, which despite controls, remains more open than the official media. Shanghai-based news website The Paper, normally one of the city’s more open media outlets, aroused some cynicism from its readers Thursday morning, when it published a story about the stock market rebounding, under the headline “Market in crazy rise of 1.55 percent.”
“Today the market rose crazily 1.5 percent, the previous five days it quietly fell over 25 percent,” said the most popular comment on its website. “Crazy rise – good choice of word!” said another reader, while a third added: “If 1.55 percent is a ‘crazy rise’, we can see that The Paper’s editors really are in deep trouble.”
In response to another article on the website, in which a generally respected analyst said that there was now value and opportunity in China’s stock market, another reader accused The Paper of encouraging people to keep gambling on the markets. One added simply, “Stock market news is a joke,” while another suggested that even if the markets were starting to rise again, “the volume of transactions is fewer and fewer – we’ve all lost so much we don’t have any money left to buy [more shares].”
Yet even on this website, which tends to attract relatively critically-minded, highly educated readers, there were also views supporting the official line. One reader said foreign “negative pressure” was to blame for some of the falls on China’s markets. Academic Hu said that, overall, the majority of people in China were willing to accept relatively uncritical coverage of the markets, in part because “they’re used to it. Only a minority will really want to get to the bottom, to find out the root cause of what’s happened. Most ordinary people still trust the government, the central government in particular,” he said.
However Hu noted that people often are less confident in their local leaders, which can pose a challenge for the authorities. “The closer to the grassroots you get the less faith people have,” he said. The most recent example of this phenomenon -- and a reminder that the Chinese authorities cannot afford to be complacent about public support -- came with this month’s explosion at a chemical warehouse in Tianjin, which killed at least 145 people, with 28 reported as missing, and destroyed a large area of the city’s harbor.
The disaster aroused a wave of online criticism, significantly more virulent than that surrounding the stock market crash. In part this may have been because the market issue seemed quite complex to many observers. In the case of Tianjin, however, many ordinary people made their views clear online: they believed that the local government was covering up the number of deaths -- particularly, in the first few days, of firefighters and police.
China's government has shut down many social media accounts. Photo: Reuters/Kacper Pempel
The government responded by closing a number of small websites and social media accounts, accusing them of spreading rumors, but the debate became so powerful that even the official People’s Daily newspaper eventually criticized the Tianjin government for failing to provide clear information. According to Hu, it was a sign that the authorities were aware that in the Internet age, it was no longer possible -- or at least simply too late, in this case -- to cover up an incident of such a scale and visibility.
“In some individual incidents, the people in power see that the more you block information, the more rumors there will be,” Hu said. “They realize that this will lead to more suspicion of the authorities, and affect their credibility.”
Yet if transparency is more acceptable to the government when it comes to local officials and incidents, it seems clear that the authorities are hoping to avoid a similar degree of debate over national, macro issues such as the stock market plunge. It was perhaps significant that, while the stock market falls didn’t make China’s front pages Thursday, some newspapers headlined the news that the government had arrested a number of senior Tianjin officials for negligence related to the explosion at the port.
Nevertheless, Hu suggests that, like the Tianjin incident, the stock market drama could also leave a legacy of heightened public suspicion, in a society where even official surveys have shown that public trust of officials is low.
“Whenever some big incident occurs, whether it’s the central government or the local government that’s involved, their credibility and legitimacy are always hurt,” he said, “because officials’ instinctive reaction is always to cover up or downplay the facts -- they don’t know how to use modern methods to communicate and deal with a crisis in a more open society.”
BANGALORE -- Every morning P Chinnasamy, like his father before him, makes the short journey to his family-owned textile mill, KKP Textiles, in the southern Indian town of Namakkal, on the periphery of Coimbatore, one of India’s largest textile hubs.
Chinnasamy's mill churns out yarn, fabric and bed sheets, of which half are exported. The fabric and bed sheets are exported to the U.S. and Europe but much of his yarn export is to China. And that's a problem -- an economic slowdown in China is significantly lowering demand. In the first six months this year, Chinnasamy exported only 60 percent as much yarn as he did in the same period last year. 
“Compared to last year, this year will be bad,” Chinnasamy said.
Chinnasamy is, relatively, one of the lucky ones. Not being dependent only on yarn, and exporting fabric to the U.S. and Europe, where demand is stable, helps Chinnasamy run his mill at full capacity 24/7, but others in the sector have been hit hard by the Chinese slowdown.
“If the bloodbath in China, commodity, equity, everything, if that leads to demand destruction, globally, then India can’t be isolated from that and exports would suffer, across the board,” said Bhavin Shah, former managing director and head of technology equity research in Asia Pacific at JPMorgan Chase & Co., who now runs Sameeksha, his own investment firm in the western Indian city of Ahmedabad.
China, which was a major importer of Indian yarns for the past few years, has cut down imports in the past few months, thus worsening the situation (of excess capacity), leading to accumulation of yarn stocks in Indian spinning mills, the Northern Indian Textile Mills Association, a lobby, said in a press release earlier this month.
Spinning mills that are part of this association were considering closing their plants once a week to reduce production, according to the press release. In Bhiwandi, in the western Indian state of Maharashtra, some 900,000 powerloom units are on strike against a local hike in electricity tariff, but also demanding the right to export the cloth they produce.
China devaluing its currency could exacerbate their worries that cheaper imports into India, including from China, will hurt their prospects. The striking workers have said they will send 100,000 postcards to India’s Prime Minister Narendra Modi, seeking relief.
Chinnasamy remains convinced that China’s turmoil will settle and even the yarn demand will pick up. “Labor is becoming very expensive in China and a lot of mills are closing down, so demand for yarn will be there ... this is a temporary situation. From March-April, a lot of business should come back,” he said.
Many analysts agree. "India does have a lot of positive domestic drivers that could be further exploited by kind of taking advantage of this crisis,” Shah said.
World Bank analysts have predicted that India will outpace China as the world's fastest-growing economy by 2017, new data shows. Photo: World Bank
The South Asian giant, which only has about 4.2 percent of the global textile market share, is growing its exports to the U.S. faster than China, which produces more than a third of the world’s textiles.
U.S. government data, from the Department of Commerce's textiles and apparel division, show Indian textile exports to America grew by 12.4 percent to 2.3 billion sq.mt. equivalent (SME) in the six months through June against the same period last year. China’s rose 10.6 percent to 14 billion SME. In terms of value, Indian textile exports rose about 11.5 percent to $3.8 billion and China’s rose by close to 4 percent, to $18.8 billion.
“Although India has a small share in the global textile trade, it is well positioned to gain from weak input prices and growing demand for apparels and made-ups,” analysts Tanu Sharma and Salil Garg at India Ratings & Research, a rating agency, wrote in a July report, with a “Stable” outlook for the sector in the current fiscal year that ends March 31, 2016.
At home, India could do more to boost its own economy by pushing through hard reforms, Shah and others say. Falling oil prices, which were sold down further, triggered by the Chinese rout, will help in this process. In this environment, India’s federal government should be able to push through much needed reforms, because it is going to be seen as having less of an impact to do so.
Two such important reforms are a new goods and services tax regime and new land acquisition rules. However, that both these long-awaited reforms are still hanging fire demonstrates the need for real action on the ground.
“While one could argue that a China scare may be an opportunity in India, if you look at the macros, there hasn’t been a significant change,” Mridul Arora, vice president at early-stage venture fund SAIF Partners, said. “Directionally, a lot of right noises are being made, but we are still far from seeing real significant improvement in India right now.”
India’s growth in the last two years hasn’t exactly been stellar, Arora pointed out. SAIF Partners has been an early investor in several startups with a strong domestic consumption play in the country.
India could still be looking at short-term pain, as “the real economy does not seem to be investing massively given it is burdened under significant amount of debt.” For instance, the banking sector is saddled with a lot of bad loans, and interest rates don’t seem to be coming down significantly anytime soon.
“While in theory it’s fine to say we will benefit as a net commodity importer, it’s based on the false assumption that you will cut your import bill while maintaining your exports. That doesn’t happen,” said Phani Sekhar, a fund manager at Mumbai’s Karvy Stock Broking.
Among India’s trading partners are commodity exporters and “if the health of those countries is impacted then it’s common sense that your exports will get hurt,” Sekhar said. “That’s a hit on your economic growth, a hit on your employment.”
The effect of the Chinese crisis over the next six months could be negative for India, especially from an overseas financial investor’s perspective, but in two years and beyond, not only is India insulated, it has a “wonderful opportunity” to push growth-oriented reforms, he said.
Arora added: “India as a market opportunity driven by factors such as strong demographics, robust domestic consumption and increasing technology adoption remains an attractive destination for risk capital.”
Lower commodity prices and cheaper oil are a huge advantage to India, “so whether India does extremely well or relatively well is the only thing” to watch out for, depending on how the government acts, Shah said.
“If they show the resolve, then India can isolate itself,” he said. Taking advantage of cheaper commodities, interest rates can come down, and the world-class infrastructure that China already has, but India needs to build, can come up at a much lower cost of material, labor and finance.
According to Chinnasamy, Indian textile makers -- and Indian exporters - can do much better if the government helped more. For instance, Chinese importers of Indian yarn have to pay a 3.5 percent duty, whereas buying yarn from Vietnam costs them no import duty. “The Indian government must convince the Chinese government to drop that 3.5 percent,” he said.
SHANGHAI -- Positive news from the U.S. economy, and a sense of greater government support for China’s markets, saw Asian shares continue to rise in morning trading on Friday.
Reports that China’s state pension funds could invest over $300 billion in the markets encouraged further rises in China. After its 5.3 percent rebound Thursday, following a week of dramatic losses, the main Shanghai Composite Index closed the morning up almost 2 percent at 3,143. The secondary index in Shenzhen also rose steadily, closing up 1.67 percent. The ChiNext Index for high-tech companies was up by almost 1.9 percent.
The gains came after Vice Minister of Human Resources and Social Security You Jun said the country's local pension funds could start investing up to 30 percent of their assets, estimated at around $313 billion, in the stock market "as soon as possible." 
A second day of gains on the Dow and other Western markets, along with stronger than expected U.S. growth figures, contributed to a rise in other Asian markets, which had already been boosted by suggestions that the U.S. was not likely to raise interest rates next month. In Japan the Nikkei continued to rise, finishing the morning up more than 2.5 percent, though analysts said short-selling remained high, suggesting some anxiety remained.
Australia’s ASX 200 also rose. It was more than 0.4 percent higher by 2 p.m. local time (12 a.m. EDT), while Singapore’s Straits Times Index was up 1.6 percent in morning trading.
In Hong Kong the Hang Seng Index roared up almost 3 percent in early trading, before falling back. It closed the morning up just over half a percent. 
China continued to seek to cool anxiety about a slowdown in its economy. A senior official from its central bank, the People’s Bank of China, told Reuters that the falls on world markets earlier this week were not caused by Beijing’s recent devaluation of its currency, but were rather the result of worries that the U.S. might raise interest rates.
A commentary in China’s official Global Times newspaper, meanwhile, said Western countries were using China as a scapegoat for their own economic woes, saying that “bubbles made by U.S. quantitative easing” were partly to blame.
And Chinese police have continued an investigation into “malicious short-selling,” which officials say is partly to blame for the recent volatility on the country’s stock markets -- which had lost more than 40 percent of their value in two months before Thursday’s rebound. Two more executives from leading brokerage CITIC Securities were detained by police Thursday as part of the investigation, Hong Kong’s South China Morning Post reported Friday.
Oil futures jumped 10 percent on Thursday, in the biggest one-day gain in over six years, prompted by rallying stock markets, news of diminished supplies and apparent moves by Venezuela to try and arrange OPEC action to curb the global slump in oil prices.
U.S. oil rose $3.96, or 10.3 per cent, to $42.56 in New York, rebounding from over six-year lows of $40 this week. That is the biggest gain since March 12, 2009, when oil gained 11 percent. Brent crude rose 10.3 per cent to $47.56 a barrel in London, the Associated Press reported.
The rally was helped by Royal Dutch Shell declaring force majeure on shipments of Nigeria’s Bonny Light crude oil after shutting two pipelines, the Financial Times reported, resulting in supplies cutting from Africa’s biggest oil producer being cut.
In addition, investor sentiment was boosted by a report showing the U.S. economy grew faster than previously reported in the second quarter, helping the Dow industrials DJIA climb 2.27% Thursday. In China, the Shanghai Composite Index surged 5.3 percent to end a five-day losing streak, according to Marketwatch.
The Wall Street Journal reported that economically struggling Venezuela has been contacting other Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) members to push for an emergency meeting in coordination with Russia to come up with a strategy to stop the current oil price rout. OPEC is not scheduled to meet until Dec. 4, and has rebuffed previous calls for an emergency meeting.
Analysts, however, said that they did not believe Thursday's rally was an indicator of a long-term rise in oil prices.
"One up day in a sea of consistent summer selling does not make for an imminent recovery in crude oil, or in gasoline," Tom Kloza, global head of energy analysis at Oil Price Information Service, told the Associated Press.
Even the most bullish forecasters are conceding that oil prices are unlikely to stage a significant rebound soon, Reuters reported. On Wednesday, Standard Chartered slashed its 2016 Brent crude oil forecast by $20 to $63.
McDonald’s Corp. and Tyson Food Inc. have cut ties with a Tennessee poultry farm after a video surfaced on Thursday that showed the farm engaging in severe animal cruelty, the Wall Street Journal reported. The video, released by the animal-rights group Mercy For Animals, featured chickens on the poultry farm being stabbed, clubbed and crushed to death.  
T&S Farms, the Tennessee poultry farm where the disturbing footage was filmed, supplied chickens to a nearby Tyson processing plant that provides McDonald’s with McNuggets and other chicken products. McDonald’s said in a statement that it and Tyson are investigating the farm and will reinforce its expectations for its meat suppliers to treat animals with care and respect. A Tyson spokesperson said it has terminated its contract with the farm. Tyson officials said no Tyson chickens are currently at T&S Farms and said they, “don’t believe this video accurately depicts the treatment of chickens by the thousands of farmers who supply us,” The Wall Street Journal reported.
An member of Mercy For Animals went undercover at a poultry farm in Tennessee and filmed animal cruelty.  Photo: Getty Images
Mercy For Animals was able to obtain the footage from the farm by sending a member to work there undercover. The worker secretly recorded what went on at the farm over the past month, and filmed farm workers using a long stick with a spike on its end to strike chickens and workers stepping on the birds’ heads while pulling on their bodies in order to break their necks. 
Matt Rice, director of investigations for Mercy for Animals, showed the footage to local law enforcement officials who then gave a copy to the local district attorney. The district attorney is expected to decide whether to press criminal charges.
For years, animal welfare groups have been going undercover to expose animal cruelty on farms across the nation. In 2011, Mercy For Animals released a video of animal cruelty occurring at one of the country’s biggest egg supplier companies, which resulted in McDonald’s and Target immediately cutting ties with the egg supplier. In 2014, a Denver cheese company ended its contract with a farm in New Mexico after a video surfaced showing the mistreatment of dairy cows. Many companies swiftly move to cut ties with suppliers after such controversial videos surface, but some states including Iowa, Kansas and Missouri have moved toward laws that bar workers from recording undercover videos, and have criticized activist groups for recording the footage rather than intervening, the Wall Street Journal reported.
More than two years ago, the so-called Fight For 15 launched high-profile protests at fast-food joints with what seemed like an audacious demand: "$15 and a union." Since then, several major cities have moved to meet the first part of the rallying cry. Now, a landmark ruling from the National Labor Relations Board has brought the slogan's other half within striking distance.
In a 3-2 decision that brings sweeping new legal accountability to fast-food corporations and other employers that rely on franchisees and subcontractors, the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB) has expanded its definition of what constitutes a “joint employer.”
“It is not the goal of joint-employer law to guarantee the freedom of employers to insulate themselves from their legal responsibility to workers, while maintaining control of the workplace,” wrote a majority for the board, which oversees labor relations in most of the private sector. “Such an approach has no basis in the [National Labor Relations Act] or in federal labor policy.”
The decision stems from workers' attempts to organize a union at Browning-Ferris Industries, a New Jersey waste management company. But its significance extends to workplaces across the country.
McDonald’s and other fast food companies have long argued they do not bear responsibility for the actions of their franchisees -- a line used to deflect accusations of labor law abuses, discourage the possibility of union organizing, and reject demands to meet worker advocates at the bargaining table.
The NLRB ruling does not force employers to abandon their use of franchisees or subcontractors. It does, on the other hand, put pressure on such employers to confront labor complaints and demands that occur across their contracting chains. It paves the way for these parent companies to recognize unions that subcontracted and franchised workers and face potential charges of unfair labor practices that any of them file.
Under the board’s old standard, bosses generally needed to exercise direct control over the terms and conditions of employment in order to be considered “joint employers.” But in its Thursday ruling, the agency said a company that exercises more indirect forms of control or reserves the authority to do so can be deemed a “joint employer.”
The NLRB defended its move as a necessary response to changes in American employment practices. It noted that “the diversity of workplace arrangements in today’s economy has significantly expanded” and “the procurement of employees through staffing and subcontracting arrangements or contingent employment, has increased steadily.”
Among other figures, the board cited numbers from the Bureau of Labor Statistics that show employment in the temporary help services industry, a subset of contingent work, roughly doubled from 1990 to 2008, reaching 2.3 million workers.
Labor and business groups immediately tussled over the decision’s significance.
“The decision will force franchise and contract businesses into a one-size-fits-all business model when it comes to liability and wage issues,” said Iain Murray, vice president for strategy at the Competitive Enterprise Institute, a libertarian think tank funded by the restaurant industry. “That may be good for labor union bosses and trial lawyers in search of big targets of opportunity, but it will hurt anyone who now benefits from flexible work arrangements.
“Corporate lobbyists will no doubt raise the alarm that this decision dooms subcontracting,” said Christine Owens, executive director of the pro-union National Employment Law Project, in a statement. “That’s far from the truth. This ruling simply means that corporations that share control over operations cannot feign ignorance or disclaim responsibility for illegal acts, especially when those acts flow from the business model the lead company imposes.”
Update as of 6:30 a.m. EDT: France launched an operation to look for new debris on the island of Reunion on Friday that could help in the ongoing search for Malaysia Airlines Flight MH370.
The French military has deployed a CASA transport aircraft "to search around the coast of Reunion island," Aline Simon, an officer, told Agence France-Press.
Original story:
France will launch air and sea search operations around the island of Reunion in the Indian Ocean on Friday for “new debris” from the missing Malaysia Airlines Flight MH370, government officials said Friday. The expansion of the search comes a day after Malaysia’s prime minister confirmed that a wing flap found on the French island was from the missing plane.
French officials reportedly said that an aircraft would survey the area around the island near Madagascar, east of Reunion, starting Friday morning, while foot patrols and search operations by helicopters and maritime units will also be conducted. French, U.S. and Australian officials involved in the investigation have been cautious in announcing the findings from the flaperon that was found last week, only saying that there is a “very high probability” that the debris came from Flight MH370.
"It has been decided, at the request of the president and the prime minister and to respond to the needs of the inquiry, to deploy supplementary air and sea resources to search for the possible presence of new debris around Reunion," French ministers of defense, transport and overseas territories, reportedly said, in a joint statement.
Malaysia, which asked for assistance from France in its search for more debris on Reunion Island, also appealed to the governments of Mauritius, about 140 miles northeast of Reunion, and Madagascar, to help widen the search.
French authorities, meanwhile, have said that they are not aware of objects such as aircraft seat cushions and window panes being found on the island, BBC reported. On Thursday, Malaysian Transport Minister Liow Tiong Lai announced that these objects had been sent for examination to French investigators to determine if they belonged to Flight MH370. 
While several objects were collected from Reunion Island -- located about 2,300 miles west of the primary search area off the southwestern coast of Australia -- and handed over to local police, none appears to be from the missing Boeing 777-200, a spokesman for Australian Transport Minister Warren Truss, said in a statement Friday, according to the Associated Press (AP).
Liow must explain "the haste and hurry" to declare the wing flap came from Flight MH370, Liew Chin Tong, a Malaysian politician, said in a statement, according to the AP. "A quick conclusion will not do justice to the next of kin of the victims."
Meanwhile, families of those on board the missing plane have expressed anger and frustration over the latest twist in the investigation. Chinese relatives of MH370 passengers Friday demanded to be taken to Reunion Island.
"Our demand is to go to Reunion island and look for ourselves," Hu Xiufang, who had three relatives, including her son, on the plane, said, according to Agence France-Presse (AFP). "All the relatives want to go there. Malaysia is the country responsible and they should obtain the relevant documents." 
"We want to go to the island and see the truth," Lu Zhanzhong told AFP. "I want to see if my son's luggage is there."
Zhang Jianyi, who had a daughter and granddaughter on the plane, reportedly said: "We will all go there together. That's what international agreements require. And Malaysia is the relevant country to arrange it."
Flight MH370 went missing on March 8, 2014, with 239 people, mostly Chinese nationals, on board, while on its way from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing. An international search operation has been ongoing since its disappearance, with vessels scouring 46,332 square miles of the southern Indian Ocean.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The number of U.S. jobs probably rose at a healthy pace in July and wages likely rebounded in data due on Friday, providing further signs of an improving economy that could allow the Federal Reserve to raise interest rates in September.
A Reuters survey of economists forecast U.S. nonfarm payrolls increased by 223,000 last month, matching June's job gains, a number which would be slightly above the monthly average for the first half of the year.
Though the pace of hiring has slowed from last year, it remains double the rate needed to keep up with population growth. The Labor Department will release its closely watched employment report on Friday at 8:30 a.m. (1230 GMT)
"We expect this report to deliver a further jolt to the Fed's confidence in their relatively optimistic economic outlook and further solidify the bias for a September hike," said Millan Mulraine, deputy chief economist at TD Securities in New York.
The Fed last month upgraded its assessment of the labor market, describing it as continuing to "improve, with solid job gains and declining unemployment."
There is, however, a lot of uncertainty surrounding July's payrolls forecast after data vendor ADP this week reported a sharp slowdown in private sector hiring last month, even though a gauge of services sector employment from the Institute of Supply Managementhit a 10-year high.
WAGES SEEN RISING AGAIN
Average hourly earnings are expected to have increased 0.2 percent last month after being flat in June, putting them about 2.2 percent above their year-ago level, but leaving them well below the 3.5 percent growth rate economists associate with full employment.
Still, the rise in wages would support views that a sharp slowdown in compensation growth in the second quarter and in consumer spending in June were temporary.
Wage growth has been disappointingly slow in recent months, but falling unemployment and decisions by several state and local governments to raise minimum wages have fueled expectations of a pickup.
In addition, a number of retailers, including Walmart, the nation's largest private employer, Target and TJX Cos have increased pay for hourly workers.
NEARING FULL EMPLOYMENT
The unemployment rate is forecast to hold steady at a seven-year low of 5.3 percent, near the 5.0 percent to 5.2 percent range most Fed officials think is consistent with a steady but low level of inflation.
But an expected rebound in the labor force participation rate, or in the share of working-age Americans who are employed or at least looking for a job, from a more than 37-1/2 year low could push it up.
A labor force drop that economists pinned on a seasonal quirk accounted for a 0.2 percentage point decline in the jobless rate in June.
A good employment report would add to robust July automobile sales and service industries data by suggesting the economy continues to gather momentum after growing at a 2.3 percent annual rate in the second quarter.
"We continue to see signs that the U.S. economy is slowly, but surely gaining traction," said Bryan Jordan, deputy chief economist at Nationwide in Columbus, Ohio.
Employment gains in July are expected to have been concentrated in service industries.
Construction sector payrolls likely rose also thanks to a strengthening housing market, and factory employment will probably get a lift as some automakers have decided to forgo a usual summer plant shutdown for retooling.
But more layoffs in the energy sector, which is grappling with last year's more than 60 percent decline in crude oil prices, were probably a drag on mining payrolls.
Oilfield giants Schlumberger and Halliburton, two big oil service companies that plan to merge, disclosed last week that they had cut 27,000 jobs between them this year. Nearly 50,000 energy jobs have been lost in the past three months on top of 100,000 employees laid off since oil prices started to tumble last autumn, according to Graves & Co., aHouston energy consultancy.
TOKYO (Reuters) - Asian shares got off on the back foot on Friday, on track for a weekly loss, following Wall Street lower as caution reigned ahead of U.S. employment data that may help determine whether the Federal Reserve could raise interest rates as early as next month.
MSCI's broadest index of Asia-Pacific shares outside Japan was down 0.3 percent in early trading, down about 1.6 percent for the week, after U.S. equities logged solid losses in the wake of disappointing earnings results.
Japan's Nikkei stock index fell 0.2 percent as investors awaited the outcome of the Bank of Japan's two-day policy meeting later this session, at which it is widely expected to maintain its stimulus program.
The key focus for investors will came later in the global day, when economists expect the U.S. employment report to show that 223,000 jobs were created in July. On Thursday, U.S. jobless claims rose from the previous week, though the positive trend was intact.
"Today's report on the US labor market is likely to be of even greater than usual interest because of the Fed's 'data dependent' approach to policy in what remains of 2015," strategists at Barclays said.
The dollar index stood at 97.810, on track for a weekly gain of about 0.5 percent, its second straight weekly rise as this week's economic data backed expectations that the U.S. central bank will deliver a rate hike next month.
The dollar was steady on the day at 124.73 yen, while the euro edged slightly higher to $1.0924.
Sterling was not far from overnight lows hit after the Bank of England sent a dovish message, with only one member voting for an immediate rate hike versus expectations for at least twomembers. The pound was flat at $1.5511, after falling as low as $1.5465.
In commodities trading, U.S. crude futures edged up after dropping to multi-month lows overnight after a large drop in U.S. crude inventories failed to boost prices.
U.S. crude was up about 0.2 percent at $44.76 after skidding as low as $44.20 on Thursday, not far from the six-year low of $42.05 hit in March. Brent rose 0.2 percent to $49.62 a barrel, pulling away from Thursday's six-month low.
SeaWorld Entertainment Inc. reported significant drops in profits and attendance in its second-quarter results Thursday, as the fallout from a documentary film that alleged the park mistreated its iconic orcas continued.
The company revealed an 84 percent drop in net second-quarter income, from $37.4 million in 2014 to $5.8 million in 2015, and saw revenue fall from $405.1 million to $391.6 million, a drop of 3 percent compared to the same period in 2014. Attendance also dropped by 106,000 visitors, around 2 percent.
The company's parks have been the target of activist ire and subject to ongoing negative publicity, since the 2013 documentary “Blackfish” alleged that the conditions in which SeaWorld kept its orcas caused them trauma, which in turn had contributed to the deaths of three park employees that worked with the animals.
Amid the ongoing controversy, the company's stock price plunged last year, following disappointing results in its crucial third quarter, and its then-CEO Jim Atchison stepped down amid criticism of how his team had handled the situation.
This year, the company has faced accusations that it sent an employee undercover to pose as an activist and infiltrate the group People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA), which has been leading criticism of its practices.
SeaWorld CEO Joel Manby blamed the fall in attendance on the timing of Easter and heavy rain in Texas, where the company operates a park in San Antonio. But he also acknowledged that “brand challenges” in California had hurt the company's bottom line.
“We realize we have much work ahead of us to recover more of our attendance base, increase revenue and improve our performance as returning to historical performance levels will take time and investment,” Manby added.
To counter the negative publicity that has dogged the company in recent years, SeaWorld undertook an expensive marketing campaign in the second quarter, which was in part responsible for some of the reduction in profits.
In a discouraging sign, SeaWorld piled on promotions to jolt admission in the first half of 2015, but overall attendance still slipped, a drop that comes amid increasing ticket prices at competitors such as Disney parks, USA Today reported.
PETA seized on SeaWorld's latest attendance drop. "Families just don't want to buy tickets to see orcas going insane inside tiny tanks, and SeaWorld's profits, like the orcas, won't recover until the abusement park empties its tanks and builds coastal sanctuaries," the group wrote in a statement, cited by CNN Money.
Mandy, who joined Sea World as CEO four months ago, said he would set out his vision for the future of the company at a special event Nov. 6.
The company also has plans to lure visitors back to its parks with a new shark exhibition in Orlando and an attraction in San Antonio that will allow customers to swim with dolphins.
Highly anticipated movies like “Bad Boys 3” and “The Dark Tower” will be released in 2017, Sony has announced. The two movies are among 16 for which the company has announced the release dates.
Sony Pictures has announced in a press release that “Bad Boys 3” will be released on Feb. 17, 2017, and “Bad Boys 4” on July 3, 2019. The two movies will continue the franchise that started two decades ago.
The first “Bad Boys” movie was released in 1995, starring Will Smith as Mike Lowrey and Martin Lawrence as Marcus Burnett. Two characters are police officers who investigate a case about stolen drugs in the movie. The sequel to the movie was released in the year 2003, in which both Smith and Lawrence reprised their roles as police officers and the plot focused on the drug Ecstasy.
Sony also announced that “The Dark Tower” will be released on Jan. 13, 2017. The movie is an adaptation of Stephen King’s novel, and according to a report by Deadline, the first movie in the series will be based on the book “The Gunslinger.” The plot revolves around a gunslinger called Roland Deschain searching for a dark tower to save the world.
Some of the other release dates of movies releasing in 2017 that Sony announced include “Resident Evil 6” on Jan. 27, “Baby Driver” on March 17, “Barbie” on June 2, “Uncharted” on June 30 and “The Lamb” on Dec. 8. The movies releasing in 2016 include “Money Monster” releasing on April 8, “The Shallows” on June 24, “Ghostbusters” on July 15, “Patient Zero” on Sept. 2, “The Magnificent Seven” on Sept. 23, “Underworld 5” on Oct. 21, “Passengers” on Dec. 21 and “Jumanji” on Dec. 25.
The announcement clarifies that the release dates of “Ghostbusters,” “The Magnificent Seven” and “Uncharted” have been changed. The announcement touts the list of “diverse” and “globally oriented” films that include titles that have franchise potential such as “The Dark Tower,” titles from established franchises like “Bad Boys 3,” adaptations from “beloved source material” like “Jumanji” and “daring original films” like “Passengers.”
U.S. stocks closed lower Thursday, with the Dow Jones Industrial Average hitting a six-month low, extending its losing streak for a sixth straight day. Eight of the 10 S&P 500 sectors traded lower, led by declines in healthcare, consumer discretionary and information technology.
The Dow Jones Industrial Average (INDEXDJX:.DJI) dropped 102.72 points, or 0.69 percent, to close at 17,419.75. The S&P 500 index (INDEXSP:.INX) fell 16.28 points, or 0.78 percent, to finish at 2,083.56. And the Nasdaq composite (INDEXNASDAQ:.IXIC) lost 83.50 points, or 1.62 percent, to end at 5,056.44.
Media stocks pulled the consumer discretionary sector down more than 1 percent following a series of mixed earnings from Viacom Inc. (NASDAQ:VIAB), CBS Corporation (NYSE:CBS) and Twenty-First Century Fox Inc. (NASDAQ:FOXA). Media stocks have lost around 10 percent so far this week, on tract for its largest decline since October 2008.
The energy and utility sectors were the only advancers in the S&P 500, up 1.5 percent and 0.5 percent, respectively.
The Nasdaq composite fell 1.2 percent, driven by losses in healthcare, which pushed biotech stocks lower. The iShares Nasdaq biotechnology ETF (IBB) fell 4 percent, driven by losses from Biogen Inc. (NASDAQ:BIIB), Alexion Pharmaceuticals Inc. (NASDAQ:ALXN) and BioMarin Pharmaceutical Inc. (NASDAQ:BMRN).
Microsoft Corporation (NASDAQ:MSFT) led the Dow lower, shedding 2 percent, while Walt Disney Co. (NYSE:DIS) continued to decline, also dropping nearly 2 percent. Dow components Chevron Corporation (NYSE:CVX) and Exxon Mobil Corporation (NYSE:XOM) were the biggest gainers in the index, both up more than 1 percent.
Meanwhile, shares of Fitbit Inc. (NYSE:FIT) plunged nearly 14 percent Thursday, despite the maker of wearable health-tracking devices nearly tripling its sales from a year ago. The company posted narrower profit margins in its first earnings report as a publicly traded company.
However, strong financial health companies, like Fitbit, have more flexibility to pick and choose their own paths, says James Gellert, chairman and CEO at Rapid Ratings International Inc. If Fitbit were to have a bad quarter, they’ve got the strength to be able to withstand that, Gellert said.
“It’s still a relatively small company in terms of revenue, but it’s still a very sound one,” Gellert said. “At the end of the day, the more sound the financial health of company, the more options it has to adjust to a changing marketplace.”
Wall Street is looking ahead to Friday's employment report, which could provide more clues as to the timing of the Federal Reserve's inevitable hike in interest rates. Economists forecast U.S. employers created 223,000 nonfarm payrolls in July, with unemployment unchanged at 5.3 percent, according to analysts polled by Thomson Reuters.
The jobs situation in the U.S. has been very positive, says Brian Hamilton, chairman at Sageworks. Barring something catastrophic, the July number should reflect that.  In the last five years, the unemployment rate has declined from 9 percent to just over 5 percent.
“During this time, the market has performed well, and private companies, which drive the majority of job creation in the U.S., have been consistently growing revenues and expanding their profit margins,” Hamilton said in a note Thursday. “When companies are performing well, they’re able to take on extra overhead in the form of hiring new employees, and you’re seeing that reflected in the falling unemployment rate.”
In episode 2 of "Hell on Wheels" Season 5, fans were introduced to a mysterious, but impressively capable, Chinese immigrant named Fong. Fong’s grit and work ethic earns the respect of Cullen Bohannon (Anson Mount) as the two men form an unlikely friendship. However, Fong is hiding a big secret – he is not a man at all. Fong is actually Mei – the AMC drama’s answer to “Mulan” – a woman disguising herself as man to survive and, hopefully, thrive in the unforgiving west. Angela Zhou, the New Zealand-raised actress tasked with the complex and demanding role, spoke with International Business Times about the challenges of playing Fong/Mei and the responsibility of curbing misplaced stereotypes on television.
International Business Times: I read that on your first day on set you and Anson Mount were flown to a cliff via a private plane to shoot your first scenes. I’m sure not every day is that glamourous, but what has been like working on a production of this scale?
Angela Zhou: It’s been such a dream because one day you’re working on small scale student films or non-union productions and then suddenly you are being flown to Canada where an entire city has been built, basically. The set is amazingly detailed. It’s got a couple of towns all rolled into one. There are hundreds of people on set, hundreds of extras every day. It’s a total dream come true.
IBTimes: How does that change things for you as an actor?
Zhou: In one sense it’s easier because the set decoration and the make-up and the costumes are so great that you really are convinced. Sometimes I’ll be sitting there and the extras are all walking around with their umbrellas, all fully in costume, walking around this dusty town, and I’m convinced! It’s only when people pull out their cell phones on a break that I go, “Wait, I’m actually just an actor, not a railroad worker. When there are a lot of people and you’re doing a lot of scenes…I was a little shyer at the beginning. You can be nervous when you’re on a big set, but everyone is so wonderful and it’s such a big family, so really after that it ends up just feeling like you and a whole bunch of your friends are creating something that you all believe in.
Angela Zhou plays Mei, a Chinese immigrant pretending to be a man, in Season 5 of "Hell on Wheels." Photo: Michael Blank Photography
IBTimes: This has been the most physically demanding role you’ve had to date. What did you do to prepare?
Zhou: The funny thing is Tim Guinee [who plays Collis Huntington] had been sort of my personal trainer for the first couple of weeks, especially the first few scenes where the audience was not supposed to know that I was a girl. So we were working on trying to get my body as flat as possible and into a V with wide shoulders. So, he was taking me out to the gym and making me do these hand-stand push-ups against the wall (obviously I can’t do them by myself, he would assist me), he’d take me to the pull up bar and make me do pull ups, both with my hands facing inward and my hands facing outward and then he’d put my legs over the push-up bar and make me do sit-ups. So, he really worked me, but it was great because it made you feel strong like the character.
IBTimes: Lots of actors on “Hell on Wheels” have physically demanding roles, but you have to do everything moving like a man pretending to be a woman. Does that make it harder?
Zhou: I was lucky, because in all of the scenes where I had to do something difficult, like dangling off of the side of a cliff, by that point the audience already knew I was a female. So, that made it a little easier, because I remember asking how am I supposed to make noise, because my natural reaction to almost falling off the side of a cliff is going to be a girl’s scream instead of a manly scream. I don’t know if there’s much of a difference between dangling off of a cliff as man and dangling off of a cliff as a woman!
Watch Cullen and Fong/Mei navigate a snowy cliff in episode 2 of "Hell on Wheels" Season 5 below:


IBTimes: On top of pretending to be a man, your character is a minority in a world that was not necessarily very kind to minorities. What challenges did that present?
Zhou: I think it’s very interesting because in westerns we tend to not see a lot of Asians. It’s almost as if immigration didn’t happen until recently, which is, obviously, absurd. A lot of immigration happened during the 19th century. Then, when they were shown I think that’s why we have that stereotype of the passive Asian man, because a lot of the westerns that did show Asians showed them in more domestic settings, the people who were nannies and housekeepers. So, one thing that’s great about this show is it is telling the story from the minority’s point of view.
It’s interesting because the railroad is this feat that they used post-Civil War to unite the country that was torn by the war and it was this amazing feat touted as America’s great triumph, but what you realize is it was the work of many different types of Americans and often people who weren’t even actual American at the time, people who had just immigrated and were using this as a tool to feel like they were a part of this country. What I like about our show is it shows these more aggressive types of Asian immigrants. You have the entrepreneurial type in Chang (Byron Mann), you have the more traditional types, like Tao (Tzi Ma), who might just want to make their fortune and go back, and then you have Mei, who is torn between both of them because there are fewer rules in America and more of her personality can shine through.
IBTimes: Do you feel a responsibility to right some of the misconceptions about Chinese immigrants? Do you think the show is an opportunity to open people’s eyes a little bit?
Zhou: I think I take the show very seriously because of the fact that I feel like I’m representing a group of people who I feel very close to, but that I am not exactly related to by way of ancestry. So when I was trying to prep the accent I wanted to make sure that it wasn’t a caricature and that I wasn’t poking fun at people, because a part of assimilation is language and people did legitimately have a lot of struggles with that. I read about journalists quoting Chinese immigrants with just horrendous language, so I took that very seriously. I think a lot of it has to do with the show’s writers. They don’t write us into weak characters. They are aggressive and strong, which was the pioneering spirit you needed in any race to survive in the west.
IBTimes: Your character is just pretending to be a man, as opposed to actually being transgendered, but did you feel any pressure on that front considering how much scrutiny there has been on those issues lately?
Zhou: Working with my transgender consultant was eye opening. I got to ask a lot of the questions that I myself had just been curious to ask, even things that did not necessarily relate to my character. What I realized is that is a struggle that I don’t necessarily understand personally and my character is just pretending to be a man, but they were able to offer deep insight into the differences between genders, these subtle differences in how they are treated or hold themselves. Then you think, wow, gender is a huge deal in terms of how we are perceived by society and how we walk and interact with the world around us. So, I would say that I’ve definitely learned a lot from the transgender community, but I couldn’t dare to speak on their behalf.
Watch Cullen discover that Fong is actaully Mei, a woman, in episode 2 of "Hell on Wheels" Season 5 below:

IBTimes: Your character has an interesting relationship with Anson Mount’s Cullen Bohannon on the show. They find a lot of common ground despite their superficial differences. Did you two talk a lot beforehand to create that chemistry or did it just happen on set?
Zhou: Anson and I are just buddies! We enjoy hanging out with each other. I think that might just be it. He’s the easiest guy to work with and just so helpful from the get go. I remember I told him I was working on the accent and he said, “Oh, I’m an acting teacher. Do you want me to run you through some vocal exercises?” He’s great to work with on set.
IBTimes: And would those two characters have been able to have that friendship in real life?
Zhou: There was a huge divide between cultures because a lot of the Chinese immigrants were there to just make a couple hundred dollars and go back to China, so they were very distrusting of Americans. I read stories of these prostitutes at a mission who were crying to go back to the brothel because they were so scared of the white people. However, on the flip side there are the ones who became Asian-Americans and wanted to settle in the States. Those were the ones were going to the missionaries and trying to learn English constantly. So, there was this communal understanding that you have something to teach me.
IBTimes: How about the future of your character on the show? It looks like Mei can trust Cullen, at least, with her secret, but what about the rest of the town. Do you foresee danger ahead?
Zhou: Well this is “Hell on Wheels,” there is always a lot of danger. I don’t know. Everyone’s going to have to stay tuned. All I can say is that Mei will come up against a lot of challenges. It’s going to be one hell of a ride!
"Hell on Wheels" airs on AMC on Saturdays at 9 p.m. EDT.
Blame it on the robots. The sales-forecast downgrade that caused Tesla's stock to nosedive Thursday isn't an indication that fewer drivers want to own the company's sexy electric vehicles. It's just that Tesla needs more time to teach its robotic factory workers new tasks associated with producing the Model X sport utility vehicle.
There was a lot to digest in the Tesla Motors Inc. second-quarter earnings report this week, but one thing we learned was that the carmaker's robots require a bit of training before they can do their jobs. The company reported mixed revenue and net income results but also lowered its 2015 sales forecast from 55,000 units to as little as 50,000. The news pushed the company’s stock price to a three-month low Thursday morning as some investors dumped company stock.
Typically, a reduced sales forecast implies lower-than-expected demand, but in Tesla's case the drop in future deliveries has more to do with the immense challenges of redirecting a robot-reliant manufacturing operation while entering a new phase of business.
For the first time, Tesla Motors is building two models on one general assembly line, the Model S luxury electric car and the Model X SUVs. And to do that, the company must essentially teach its robots to handle the new fabrication process for the Model X.

“There are parts of the factory that are much more automated than other parts,” Tesla Motors CEO Elon Musk said during a conference call Wednesday. “In terms of programming the robots, it varies quite a bit in terms of … how difficult that programming is … The Model X is, I think, a particularly challenging car to build. Maybe the hardest car to build in the world.”
Programming the Tesla factory robots, including the KUKA KE 1000 Titan, has required the company to produce possibly as many as 50 Model X “validation vehicles” -- cars no one will ever drive -- just to show the robots how to assemble, weld and glue aluminum body parts.
Robotic arms assemble Tesla's Model S sedans at the company's factory in Fremont, California, June 22, 2012. Tesla is configuring its robots to build its Model X sport utility vehicle.  Photo: Reuters/Noah Berger
“We just concluded a planned one-week Fremont factory shutdown and made changes in stamping, Model S body center, drive unit production, battery module and pack production and general assembly to allow for an elevated level of production and efficiency,” Tesla said in its letter to shareholders released Wednesday. “Since Model S and Model X will both share the general assembly line, we used the week to validate the newly installed equipment by completely building several Model X test vehicles.”Apparently, like humans, robots require a little trial and error before they can do the job right.
If you’re looking for clues about the economic vitality and well-being of a community, you might have a look at the quality and quantity of its local news. According to researchers at Rutgers University, there are “substantial differences” in the quality and quantity of local journalism produced in affluent communities compared to poorer ones, even after one accounts for population.
“If journalism and access to information are pillars of self-government, then these findings suggest those tools of democracy are not being distributed evenly,” Philip M. Napoli, professor of journalism and media studies at Rutgers and the report’s lead author, told the Nieman Journalism Lab. “That should be cause for concern.”
The researchers came to this conclusion after gathering and analyzing a week’s worth of local journalism output from three communities in New Jersey: Newark, New Brunswick and Morristown. And by every measure they used, there were vast disparities in the kind and number of news articles produced in the three cities.
For example, the researchers found that Morristown, a small, affluent community where the median household income is over $70,000, produced 23 times more news stories per 10,000 people than Newark, a grittier city where median household income is about $34,000. Morristown also produced 2.5 times more news stories per 10,000 people than New Brunswick, a middle-class town where median household income is nearly $40,000.
This pattern appeared on social media as well. Morristown’s journalism sources produced 20 times more social media posts than Newark’s journalism sources and more than three times more social posts than New Brunswick’s.
“These findings potentially point to a problem in local journalism, in which lower-income communities may be underserved relative to wealthier communities,” the report’s authors wrote.
Quality As Well As Quantity
But volume of output was just one facet examined by the report’s authors. The researchers also looked at how many of the articles published addressed “critical information needs” -- that is, local health, civic and government issues -- and how many were the result of original reporting, rather than reblogging or repurposing information that had been reported elsewhere.
By those measures, the disparity between the wealthy communities and the less moneyed ones was even more pronounced. Morristown’s publications produced 35 times more “critical information” stories than Newark’s, and 2.5 times more than New Brunswick’s.
Squeeze In the Middle
About the only measure in which Newark fared better than the other two communities was in how evenly distributed that information was. Using something called the Herfindahl-Hirschman Index, which measures the size of businesses in a specific market and the amount of competition between them, the Rutgers researchers figured out where the news in these communities was coming from. By this measure, New Brunswick fared worst, with a high concentration of articles coming from a relatively small number of publications. That finding somewhat echoes statistics published late last month by the American Society of News Editors, which found that newspapers serving mid-sized markets were hit far harder than newspapers serving very small or very large markets.
Universal Problem
The story of these three communities may not be applicable to every upper-, middle- and lower-class community in the United States. Both affluence and poverty come in many different shapes and sizes and Morristown, where the average asking price for a home is higher than $400,000, and Newark, which is just a short train ride away from New York City, might not be truly representative of either condition in the United States. 
But the report’s findings were stark enough that its authors are curious about how applicable they are. “It would be very interesting to see,” the report’s executive summary reads, “if this research design were to be scaled up and applied to a larger sample of communities, the extent to which these patterns persist.”
Free massages, fancy dinner banquets, and luxurious dinner cruises: These are just a few of the ways in which private prison-company executives woo government officials at industry-sponsored events, says a new report to be released today by In the Public Interest (ITPI), a policy group in Washington, D.C.
For decades, for-profit prison companies have become a powerful force on Capitol Hill, spending millions in lobbying dollars and campaign contributions. We know this because disclosure laws require transparent dealings between private enterprises and public officials. However, those disclosure laws do not apply to a murkier side of the private prison business -- the trade shows and conferences sponsored by corrections associations. 
“It’s very much behind the scenes,” said Benjamin Davis, a research analyst at ITPI and author of the report. “They campaign, they lobby, but they also build relationships with officials through these associations. There's definitely a degree of wining and dining.”
ITPI’s 30-page report, “Buying Access: How Corporations Influence Decision Makers at Corrections Conferences, Trainings, and Meetings,” delves into this little-known world, which Davis called a “third avenue of influence” for jail and prison companies. That influence, not surprisingly, can be enormously lucrative.  
As the number of inmates around the country has quadrupled over the last 30 years, the for-profit prison industry has boomed. For instance, two of the largest prison operators -- the GEO Group and Corrections Corporation of America (CCA) -- earned a combined $3.3 billion in revenue in 2014. Since 1989, GEO and CCA have spent a combined $25 million in lobbying efforts, government records show. 
But lobbying goes only so far. 
Sponsorships at jail and prison “events” can give these companies a key introduction to government officials who, in turn, are responsible for buying the goods and services needed to operate their facilities. According to the report, in 2014, private companies contributed at least $3 million to five of the largest professional corrections associations, paying anywhere between $5,000 and $30,000 to get their brand names -- and executives -- front and center. “The millions of dollars spent ... buy the companies opportunities to build their brands and market their products and services to decision makers,” the report notes.
The GEO Group, one of the largest private prison operators, advertises at a 2014 American Correctional Association trade show.  Photo: American Correctional Association/Facebook
Like any good trade show, there’s some fun stuff, too. Companies do their best to stand out and get noticed. At the 2014 National Sheriff’s Association conference, for instance, Armor Correctional Health Services, a prison and jail medical services company, sponsored a “relaxation station,” where attendees could get neck and shoulder massages. And at the 2014 Michigan Sheriffs’ Association conference, healthcare provider Corizon hosted a dinner cruise, while prison tech firm Securus Technologies co-sponsored the banquet, the report says. 
To be sure, there is nothing illegal about these interactions, and they provide a forum for government officials to learn about potentially innovative products and programs being offered by the private sector.
But, as Davis points out, the law currently does not require these corrections associations to offer much, if any, financial transparency around these relationships and events. He believes that should change.  
“To achieve full transparency, professional corrections associations should publish complete reports that provide details on the contributions from private companies and the benefits the companies receive in return,” Davis writes in the report. “Only then can the public more fully monitor the influence of corrections companies and protect the public interest.”
U.S. stocks traded sharply lower Thursday, with the Dow Jones Industrial Average dropping more than 100 points, as media stocks sank on mixed corporate earnings. Market professionals also analyzed the number Americans filing new claims for unemployment benefits ahead of Friday's jobs report, which could provide more clues as to the timing of the Federal Reserve's inevitable hike in interest rates. 
The Dow Jones Industrial Average (INDEXDJX:.DJI) dropped 109.28 points, or 0.62 percent, to 17,431.19. The S&P 500 index (INDEXSP:.INX) fell 15.81 points, or 0.76 percent, to 2,083.94. And the Nasdaq composite (INDEXNASDAQ:.IXIC) lost 77.55 points, or 1.53 percent, to 5,060.69.
Nine of the 10 S&P 500 sectors traded lower, led by a more than 1 percent decline in consumer discretionary due to a drop in media stocks. The financial sector was the only gainer, up just 0.8 percent.
Dow component Walt Disney Co. (NYSE:DIS) continued to decline Thursday, dropping 4 percent after the company missed revenue estimates and cut its outlook for profits in the cable business this week. Energy giants Exxon Mobil Corporation (NYSE:XOM) and Chevron Corporation (NYSE:CVX) were the biggest gainers in the index, up 1 percent and 0.5 percent, respectively.
Meanwhile, shares of Viacom Inc. (NASDAQ:VIAB), which operates popular TV properties including MTV and Comedy Central, tumbled 19 percent to a 52-week low of $41.80 after the company missed Wall Street revenue forecasts.
CBS Corporation (NYSE:CBS) also saw its stock drop, down 3 percent, after the company saw its advertising sales tumble drop 3 percent from a year ago.
Shares of Planet Fitness Inc. (NYSE:PLNT) dropped as much as 14 percent after the company made its market debut on the New York Stock Exchange, valuing the fitness club operator at more than $1 billion. Shares were priced at $16, the top end of the expected range of $14-$16, but fell as a low as $13.75 in morning trading.
The number of Americans filing new claims for unemployment rose less than expected last week as U.S. jobless claims increased 3,000 to a seasonally adjusted 270,000 for the week ended August 1, the Labor Department said Thursday. Economists had forecast jobless claims would rise last week by 6,000 to 273,000, according to analysts polled by Thomson Reuters.
Initial claims for unemployment insurance have been below 300,000 for 22 straight weeks, the longest such stretch since 1973. Claims below the 300,000 threshold is considered to be a mark of a strengthening labor market.
In the week ending August 1, the advance figure for seasonally adjusted initial claims was 270,000, an increase of 3,000
from the previous week's unrevised level of 267,000. Photo: U.S. Labor Department
The data comes ahead of Friday’s highly-anticipated employment report for July. PNC is forecasting net job growth of 210,000 for July (205,000 in the private sector) and expects that the unemployment rate held steady at 5.3 percent.
Job growth has averaged 208,000 per month in the first half of 2015, down somewhat from an average of 246,000 in all of 2014. However, economists say the pace is more than enough to keep up with underlying growth in the labor force. “The job market continues to absorb the slack remaining from the Great Recession,” Gus Faucher, senior macroeconomist at PNC, said in a research note Thursday.
 
The International Olympic Committee and the mayor of Rio de Janeiro are insisting that Brazil will be ready to host the 2016 Summer Olympics. Despite widespread concern about construction progress and water pollution, officials reiterated this week that Olympic preparations are on schedule and within their projected budget.
One year before the 2016 Olympics' Aug. 6 opening ceremony, Rio Mayor Eduardo Paes touted the city's progress on a slew of projects that once seemed unlikely to have a happy ending. Paes spoke at Arena Carioca 3, an Olympic venue that he said is 98 percent complete. Other sites, including the Olympic village, aquatic center and central Olympic stadium, also are near completion, the Guardian reported.
“We want to show that we are capable of doing things on time, that Brazil is not a country where everything ends up over budget, everything ends up late,” Paes said Wednesday, the Associated Press reported. “We are literally making a miracle happen here.”
Despite Paes’ optimism, critics are questioning whether certain facilities scheduled for completion next year will actually be ready for use. Brazilian officials were similarly confident about the country’s progress on new soccer stadiums before the 2014 FIFA World Cup, only for several facilities to remain incomplete mere days before the event began.
In January 2014, Rio’s proposed budget for the 2016 Olympics stood at $2.93 billion, Reuters reported. By last May, that number ballooned to $13.2 billion, with just 10 percent of necessary Olympic infrastructure in place. Work on an Olympic tennis center already has exceeded its budget. The Olympic shooting range, equestrian track and an athletics facility are optimistically slated to be finished by mid-2016, but any delays will prove costly.
Concerns about Rio’s bid aren’t limited to construction. An Associated Press investigation in July found Rio’s waterways are rife with dangerous bacteria and that Rio’s attempt to address the issue has fallen far short. Separately, forcible evictions of residents of Vila Autodromo, a small village on the outskirts of planned Olympic sites, led to violent protests in June.
Despite these woes, Thomas Bach, head of the International Olympic Committee, this week expressed satisfaction with Rio’s progress. “We will have great games that will reflect both Brazilian passion, but also Brazilian efficiency,” Bach said Tuesday. “I have no special worries because I’m very confident that the organizing committee and all levels of the government will continue in this dynamic way to work.”

ISMAILIA, Egypt -- Fireworks, an air show and an opera are all part of the $30 million celebration taking place Thursday in the Egyptian city of Ismailia as President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi inaugurates the New Suez Canal. Around the country, Egyptians are watching the fanfare on live streams broadcast on public mega-screens and TV channels, enjoying the day off work after the Cabinet declared it a national holiday.
For weeks, banners, posters and even passport stamps have heralded the expansion of the canal as “Egypt’s gift to the world.” The addition of a second shipping lane along a 35 km stretch of the canal promises to cut transit time from 18 hours to 11. More important than time however, is the money. The Suez Canal Authority is banking on daily traffic to double by 2023 -- going from 49 to 97 vessels per day. This would allow the canal to more than double its yearly revenue -- from $5.3 billion to more than $13 billion.
But to Egypt’s 90 million citizens, the canal is about more than numbers.
“The New Suez Canal is more than just a new waterway and an astonishing feat of engineering,” said Adm. Mohab Mameesh, chairman and managing director of the Suez Canal Authority. “It is a catalyst for the Egyptian people which will unleash a renewed sense of pride and a more prosperous future.”
Ever since former President Gamal Abdul Nasser nationalized the canal in the 1960s, it has served as a source of national pride for Egypt; proof of the country’s independence from colonizers and confirmation of its ability to determine its economic future. By reclaiming the Suez Canal for Egypt, Nasser has gone down in history as a national hero, despite his economic failings and embarrassing military loss to Israel.
An Iranian naval ship travels through the Suez Canal near Ismailia, Egypt. Photo: Reuters
Sisi is taking a page directly out of Nasser’s playbook -- something his whole political career hinges on.
Since 2013, Sisi has relied almost exclusively on nationalism to maintain the support of his people despite a bleak economic forecast, a major fuel crisis, high levels of unemployment and a growing insurgency in the Sinai Peninsula. For him, the new Suez Canal is far more than just an economic development project; it's the very foundation of his nationalism campaign and a symbol of his right to rule.
That’s why a year ago, Sisi announced that the expansion project, originally designed to take three years, would be completed in one. The plan has its outspoken critics, with former Suez Canal Authority member Wael Kaddour alleging in some news reports that the decision to shorten the timeline “doubled construction costs.”
Political theorist Amr Adly, a scholar at the Carnegie Endowment’s Middle East Center, believes the reason to push the timeline forward is political.
“Sisi was in a rush to show that he was doing something, that he’s delivering,” Adly said. "This project supports Sisi’s legitimacy, a legitimacy based on achievement. ... It’s a politics of waiting, of saying ‘We’re doing something, you can see this, you just have to wait.’”
Sisi has pulled through on his ambitious timeline, but at a high cost. To finish dredging the more than 240 million cubic meters on time, Egypt had to hire foreign contractors at the price of $2 billion -- a quarter of the project’s entire budget. This wrecked Sisi’s original promise to employ only Egyptian firms for the project.
Egyptian President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi attends the closing session of the Arab Summit in Sharm el-Sheikh, Egypt, March 29, 2015. Photo: Reuters/Amr Abdallah Dalsh
Sisi also originally announced that the project would be funded entirely through bonds -- and indeed, the state managed to raise its entire budget of $8 billion within a week, selling 88 percent of those certificates to ordinary citizens. The Suez Canal Authority has already begun paying quarterly dividends on the 12 percent bonds and plans to repay the principal within the next five years. The popular funding scheme was heralded an unmitigated success and a sign of the nation’s support for Sisi. However, because of the tightened timeline, the authority has gone nearly $1 billion over budget, and has to fill in the gap with two short-term loans from local banks.
In its haste to complete the project on time, the authority has also displaced more than 2,000 residents of the villages of Qantara Sharq and Abtal whose homes were in the way of the new shipping lane.
“These families were given very little notice prior to their eviction -- just around one week -- and have not received any concrete form of compensation. Only promises from the officials involved in the New Suez Canal Project,” Egyptian lawyer Sherine Al Haddad told local media.
And now, after this grand effort to get the waterway open on time, experts remain skeptical as to whether it can even achieve the ambitious projections the state has been boasting.
To achieve the revenues expected by 2023, shipping through the canal will have to increase about 9 percent per year, with no declines in traffic. As the last four years have seen an increase of only between 3 and 4 percent, a new report on the project issued by Capital Economics states that the projection “seems unlikely, to say the least.”
Neil Davidson, an analyst with Drewry Shipping, was also skeptical. “The demand for the Suez Canal is influenced by a number of factors. Shipping costs are part of the equation, but just one small part,” he said. “However, simply expanding the canal does not automatically generate more traffic for it. To be able to say whether the government's predictions are realistic it would be necessary to see the detailed trade and traffic modelling. ... To my knowledge this analysis has not been made public.”
However, even if the canal does reap generous profits, the grand expansion will have little direct effect on the lives of ordinary Egyptians, Adly said.
“The new Suez Canal is only likely to increase the revenue that goes to the state office,” Adly said. “This is important as it is all in U.S. dollars, which the state badly needs, but the canal is not likely to generate employment for citizens in any direct manner. It has engaged employees in the digging process, but that’s done now.”
Citizens looking to benefit directly from the canal in the long term will have to wait for today’s expected announcement regarding Sisi’s plans for the “New Suez Canal Zone.” To date, the state has released little information about its plans to develop a $15 billion industrial and logistics hub along the banks of the canal, but this is where ordinary citizens stand to benefit the most in the long-term should it materialize, Adly said.
In the end, this much is clear: The gleaming new Suez Canal being unveiled today is as much a campaign to rally national support for the new regime as it is a true economic development project.
“Of course the Suez Canal has its own symbolism,” Adly said. “But even if this contributes to Egypt’s economy, there need to be other reforms. There is no direct relation between economic growth and political stability.”
UPDATE: Tesla Motors’ share price closed down 8.88 percent, to $246.13, on Thursday after the company lowered its guidance for 2015 car sales. The stock price closed at its lowest level since June 4.
UPDATE: Tesla Motors’ stock was trading down 11.01 percent to $240.40 Thursday morning, near its three-month low.
Original story begins here:
Tesla Motors Inc. (Nasadq:TSLA) shares were down 7.45 percent to $250 in pre-market trading Thursday after the Model S electric car maker downgraded its 2015 sales goal. In its second quarter results, the company the complexity of introducing the upcoming Model X sport utility vehicle to its assembly line at its Fremont, California, factory could cause interruptions in fourth quarter deliveries. 
Tesla also reported mixed results for the three-months ended June 30, with greater than expected unadjusted losses but breaking even on revenue expectations. Tesla beat analysts' expectations on adjusted revenue and adjusted net income.
“We are now targeting deliveries of between 50,000 and 55,000 Model S and Model X cars in 2015,” the company said in its second quarter letter to shareholders released Wednesday after markets closed. “While our equipment installation and final testing of Model X is going well, there are many dependencies that could influence our Q4 production and deliveries.”
The company has previously said it was confident in delivering 55,000 Model S luxury electric sedans and Model X SUVs this year, but it now says “operational challenges” could hamper deliveries in the fourth quarter.
A downgrade in deliveries is significant because the company’s stock is priced at Tesla stickily meeting its stated goals. Tesla stock has lost gains it’s made since June 9 after the company’s annual shareholder meeting."[Tesla's] updated delivery guide of 50k-55k (vs.55k) was a negative surprise. Perspective is important, however, as this is a short-term issue, which on the positive side reduces production ramp risk for the fourth quarter," Benjamin Kallo, Baird Equity Research analyst, said in a research note Thursday. Baird maintains a $335 per share price target for the company. 
The letter signed by CEO Elon Musk and Chief Financial Officer Deepak Ahuja estimated that any issues with suppliers of components of the Model X could lead to a production loss of 800 vehicles a week.
The company also reduced its weekly production figures for next year from an average of 2,000 split between the Model S and Model X to about 1,600 to 1,800 a week. The company said it produced a record 12,807 vehicles in the second quarter, but that production will decline to “just over 12,000” as it introduces the Model X to the assembly line.
For nearly 1,200 years, top athletes gathered on a Greek island for the sake of pure competition in the Olympic Games, without media-rights deals or massive construction projects to overshadow their efforts. In the modern day, a growing number of activists suggest a return to historic roots might be just what the international mega-event needs.
The creation of a permanent Olympic venue is just one proposed fix as more and more international cities balk at the exorbitant costs associated with hosting the Summer and Winter Olympic Games. Advocates say a reusable site would end the cycle of budget overruns in overmatched host cities and free the International Olympic Committee from having to consider questionable bids from autocratic regimes.
Russia spent an unprecedented $40 billion on the 2014 Winter Olympics in Sochi, an event marred by allegations of human rights violations related to the country's anti-LGBT "Propaganda Law" and exploitation of migrant workers. More recently, projected costs for the 2016 games in Rio de Janeiro ballooned from $2 billion to more than $13 billion amid construction delays, forced evictions and failed attempts to address water pollution. Host cities often wreck their economies to build infrastructure that falls out of use shortly after the games end. For critics, a permanent Olympic site is an attainable fix for a system that has rapidly become untenable.
“You would get rid of the whole issue, just the fiscal insanity, of building these huge edifices that you have a problem with dealing with afterwards,” said John Rennie Short, a professor of public policy and an urban development expert at the University of Maryland, Baltimore County.
Driven by a desire for global exposure and legitimacy, international governments have long downplayed the cost of hosting the games while trumpeting economic benefits, such as expanded local infrastructure. But cost overruns have plagued the Olympics for years. The International Olympic Committee demands that host cities commit to the construction of top-notch facilities while still adhering to environmental standards, and the desire to outdo previous host cities has led to increasingly extravagant projects. Host nations also commit millions to event security.
Budgetary Disasters
Several hosting bids have ended in financial disaster. The 1976 Winter Olympics in Montreal devastated the city’s economy, primarily due to massive cost overruns associated with venue construction. The Canadian city spent the next three decades paying back about $1.5 billion in debt directly related to the Olympics.
More recently, Greece spent between $10 billion and $15 billion to host the 2004 Summer Olympics in Athens, more than double initial estimates. The massive overages added to the country’s national debt and hastened its economic downturn, which by 2015 left Athens in danger of crashing out of the euro. The Olympic facilities Greece built to house thousands of athletes and spectators for two weeks have largely become obsolete relics. In all, Olympic host cities typically surpass their original budget by about 180 percent, the Economist reported.
“Most people recognize that there is a degree of extravagance that is simply not real in the Olympics, not just in the funding and the degree of organization, but also the number of sports that are being played. It’s just becoming ridiculous,” said Roger Howard, a freelance journalist, author and international relations expert in the United Kingdom who supports the creation of a permanent Olympic venue.
More than a year before the scheduled start of the 2016 Summer Olympics in Rio, Brazil has already begun to experience a financial pitfall. As of May, officials had completed just 10 percent of construction required at Olympic sites, and at times has relied on forced evictions to remove residents from sites. At the same point before the 2012 Summer Olympics, London had completed about 80 percent of the necessary construction, Reuters reported.
The IOC requires host cities to commit to certain environmental standards before and during the Olympics. Despite vast spending, Rio has fallen far short of those standards. A recent investigation found waterways that were to be used for 2016 Olympic events were full of dangerous bacteria and viruses.
In the face of so much evidence, cities have begun to rethink the merits of hosting the Olympics. Earlier this month, Boston withdrew its bid to host the 2024 Summer Olympics, citing concerns about cost and a lack of local support. Similarly, the IOC chose from an abnormally small pool of candidates for the 2022 Winter Olympics after several European cities, including Oslo, Norway, and Krakow, Poland, withdrew their candidacy.
Facing a dearth of bids from developed cities in the West, the IOC is increasingly turning to autocratic regimes like those of China or Russia – nations that were willing to accept massive Olympic budgets in order to display their power on an international stage. Beijing was awarded hosting rights for the 2022 Winter Olympics last month, despite a questionable human rights record that included forced evictions, mass detention of protestors and various labor violations.
Even as host cities fall into debt, the IOC, based in Switzerland and considered a not-for-profit organization, has enjoyed unprecedented revenue. The organization earned a record $8 billion in revenue from 2008 to 2012, due in large part to skyrocketing media-rights deals, Sportscal reported.
“That’s why you have the bidding system -- it’s in the IOC’s benefit, because they share the profits but don’t bear the costs. When you look at it objectively, the system’s geared up to generate funds for the IOC. Where do these funds go, exactly? The best you can say about the IOC is that it’s slightly better than FIFA,” Short said.
A Viable Alternative?
The creators of the modern Olympics chose the rotating host system to promote the event’s commitment of global community and inclusiveness, but the idea of a permanent host site has floated for decades. When the United States chose to boycott the 1980 Olympics in Moscow amid Russia’s invasion of Afghanistan, the U.S. Senate’s Foreign Relations Committee urged a discussion on the merits of “the creation of permanent homes for Summer and Winter Olympic Games, including one in Greece, the country of their origin.”
There are several theories on how best to implement a permanent venue, but experts agree the chosen site would have to be relatively secure and politically stable. Short advocates the creation of a permanent Summer Olympics site on a Greek island, possibly Olympia, which historically played host to the event. Under his model, the IOC could use its existing coffers and sell bonds against future media deals to raise the money necessary to build infrastructure. Olympic arenas would be reused every four years, with the site serving as a site for other international events in-between. The Greek government would welcome foreign investment as it battles its ongoing debt crisis, he said.
“The funding is not the issue. The issue is where it will go and what would be the organization,” Short said.
The IOC could also grant a willing country long-term control over a permanent Olympic site and then allow that country to sell hosting rights every four years to “sponsor” nations, Howard said. While it would be difficult to secure funding for the project or to agree on the site’s location, the project could allow the international community to invest in fledgling nations in need of financial support.
“There is a really big opportunity here for the West and the outside world, Britain, America and other countries, to provide some sort of not just security, but investment in developing countries that desperately need that,” Howard said.
Workers are pictured at the construction site of the handball venue at the Rio 2016 Olympic Park in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, July 24, 2015. Photo: Reuters
The Future of the Olympics
While cries for widespread reform of the current Olympic model are intensifying, most people associated with the process have expressed skepticism about the probability of a permanent site. The project would require an unprecedented level of international collaboration, in terms of both construction and raising the necessary funds. Negotiations on where to place the venue would be contentious.
Moreover, the Olympic bidding process is far too lucrative for the IOC. As long as countries are willing to spend billions of dollars to host the event, media-rights deals will continue to grow in value and the IOC will continue to make money.
“If they end up with few or no bidders, suddenly there’s an incentive,” said Barry Sanders, longtime chairman of the Southern California Committee for the Olympic Games. “But I don’t think they’re anywhere near that for the Summer Olympic Games. And the Winter Games, if they get removed from the $60 billion or $70 billion Sochi extravaganza, I think the reluctance [to host] will fade.”
As President Barack Obama pushes to make the massive Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) trade pact a capstone of his global trade legacy, he is promoting the deal at home as a way to counter China's commercial influence in the Asia-Pacific region while also holding trade partners to tighter human rights agreements than Chinese dealmakers would. But experts say the president is exaggerating the extent to which trade pacts can force countries to address labor issues and human rights concerns. They argue that previous U.S. trade deals have offered little in the way of oversight and enforcement.
The talks to finalize one of history’s largest and most expansive trade pacts  broke down Friday, but negotiators are likely to reconvene later this month. Under the deal, thriving democracies including the United States, Australia and Japan would forge closer trade ties with  Vietnam  ,  Malaysia  and  Thailand, countries with poor track records on labor rights. Human rights groups and unions argue that the TPP doesn’t go far enough to improve working conditions abroad.
“People point to South Korea and Taiwan and say economic liberalization automatically leads to democracy, but you can also point to Singapore and Malaysia that are economically strong but have no sign of any real democratic futures,” says Brad Adams, the executive director of Human Rights Watch's Asia division. “The trade policy people in Washington D.C. like to evangelize that the TPP will bring democracy to countries like Vietnam, but the reality is Vietnam’s Communist Party will take the parts of the TPP they want and ignore the rest.”
A suspected victim of human trafficking rests at a government shelter in Takua Pa district of Phang Nga, Thailand, October 17, 2014. Thailand is one of the countries involved in TPP talks. Opinions are divided on how to tackle human rights abuses in free trade member states. Labor rights side-agreements in past trade deals have had little impact on combating labor abuses in countries like Colombia and Guatemala.  Photo: Reuters/Athit Perawongmetha
Adams echoes the sentiment of many rights groups that say there is no direct link between free trade and stronger labor rights, such as the freedom to organize independent unions or protections against forced labor and human trafficking. The solution, they say, is stronger enforcement mechanisms in future trade deals, including the TPP.
The recent history of trade deals suggests they don’t to hold trade partners to high human rights standards. As a member of the ten-year-old Dominican Republic-Central America Free Trade Agreement (CAFTA-DR) with the United States, Guatemala fell under labor rights side agreements aimed at protecting Guatemala’s workers. But more than seven years after the AFL-CIO labor union filed a complaint over Guatemala’s unwillingness to protect union activity and to improve working conditions in Guatemala’s apparel, agriculture and shipping sectors, problems endure. Guatemalan authorities have managed to use CAFTA-DR’s toothless enforcement mechanisms to keep disputes locked in a seemingly perpetual state of consultations between U.S. Department of Labor officials and their Central American counterparts. 
“The experience lobbying the US government to enforce CAFTA in Guatemala—along with the US government’s failure to enforce trade deals with other countries like Honduras and Colombia—calls into question whether the US government will fully enforce the labor provisions in the TPP,” Sean Savett, AFL-CIO spokesman said in an email in April ahead of a June dispute settlement hearing on Guatemala. The hearing led to  no enforcement action  as Guatemalan authorities fought back on allegations of labor violations brought forth by the U.S. Labor Department.
A demonstrator reacts to the effects of tear gas fired by riot policemen during a May Day demonstration in Bogota, Colombia on May 1, 2015. Three years after the U.S.-Colombia free trade agreement went into effect, Colombian labor activists and union leaders are still targets for abuse and killings. Labor rights side agreements baked into free trade pacts have had little impact on forcing free trade member states to do more to fight this violence.  Photo: Guillermo Legaria/AFP/Getty Images
Similar foot-dragging and lack of enforcement mechanisms have led to protracted labor rights “consultations” with free-trade counterparts in Honduras, Colombia and Peru. Labor rights activists argue that side-agreements on labor protections in each of these counties have not improved conditions for workers in these countries.
For example, despite a “labor action plan  ” under the U.S.-Colombia Trade Agreement that went into effect in 2012, workers continue to be threatened – especially in the country’s shipping industry – and more than 100 union activists have been killed, according to a 2015  report on the status of labor rights  in the South American country commissioned by Colombia’s National Union School.
Still, pro-business interests and libertarian free-traders say trade liberalization delivers economic empowerment to workers over time—and with it greater freedom and less oppression. Others argue the free trade deals aren’t the venue for improving human rights, and that side-agreements act as a distraction to the ultimate goal of these transactions: the removal of tariffs and investment rules that impede global trade activities.
“It’s easy to point to bad examples,  like the Thailand slavery issue  , but it’s unfair to paint a country’s entire industry with the same brush. There are a lot of people in Thailand that depend on seafood harvesting and there’s a real economy there,” says Bill Watson, trade policy analyst, trade policy analyst at the libertarian Cato Institute. “There are other ways for the United States to engage countries on these issues, but we shouldn’t use these issues to keep trade barriers in place.”
Jagdish N. Bhagwati agrees. As a free-trade purist, the professor of economics at Columbia University says trade pacts are more likely to lure countries like India into future deals if they aren’t weighed down with side-agreements.
“If we do regional trade agreements like the TPP we can’t overload them with side demands, like intellectual property requirements, or labor and environmental conditions,” he says. “India – which is a democracy, by the way – doesn’t want trade pacts weighted down with side conditions. The Indian position is that these issues are important, but linking them to free trade agreements doesn’t work.”
A Brazilian judge sentenced five former executives of the country’s construction giant OAS Wednesday over corruption at the state-run oil company Petroleo Brasileiro Petrobras SA. The OAS executives were found guilty of bribing government officials, money laundering and organized crime in a graft scandal that broke last year.
Federal judge Sergio Moro ordered a jail term of 16 years and four months along with fines to the company's former president Jose Aldemario Pinheiro Filho, according to Europe Press news agency. Jose Ricardo Nogueira Breghirolli and Matthew Countinho, two former employees of OAS, were each sentenced to 11 years in prison. Another executive Stremel Fernando Augusto Andrade was initially handed a jail term of four years, but his sentence was reportedly commuted to community service.
One of the attorneys of the OAS executives said Wednesday that his clients were innocent and that he would appeal the verdict, the Wall Stress Journal reported.
The latest ruling comes soon after former presidential chief of staff Jose Dirceu, the senior-most member of the ruling Workers' Party, was arrested Monday in the Petrobras corruption case, the Associated Press (AP) reported. Dirceu is accused of organizing the bribery scheme at the oil company and accepting kickbacks during his term in office. He also allegedly continued to receive payments from contractors after he was jailed in late 2013 over a vote-buying scandal.
The Petrobras fraud involved at least $800 million in bribes and other illegal funds, which also allegedly included bribes to the company's executives in exchange for inflated contracts, according to the prosecutors. Some of that money was purportedly siphoned off by Workers' Party and its allies.
Nearly 50 Brazilian politicians were reportedly investigated over the past year. Several of them have denied the allegations while some have not commented on the matter.
Activist investor William Ackman has built up a $5.5 billion investment in snack food giant Mondelez International Inc, gambling that the company will become a takeover target as a wave of consolidations sweeps the food industry.
Ackman's latest acquisition, which was first reported by the Wall Street Journal, could raise his total stake -- which includes shares and options -- to 7.5 percent of Mondelez, which has a market capital of $75.6 billion. Ackman believes that the company has to grow revenues faster and cut costs significantly, or sell itself to a rival, people familiar with the matter told the paper.
Sources told CNBC that Ackman's $20 billion hedge fund, Pershing Square Capital Management, was considering a possible takeover of Mondelez.
"We welcome Pershing Square as investors in our company," a Mondelez spokesperson told the Journal. "We'll continue to focus on executing our strategy and on delivering value for all our shareholders."
The Journal speculated that other potential buyers would include Kraft Heinz Co. and PepsiCo Inc. Pershing Square is investing in Mondelez after the company defused a shareholder fight last year, when activist Nelson Peltz joined its board and agreed to abandon a push for a merger with PepsiCo, Bloomberg reported.
The New York Times reported that having two activist investors, Ackman and Peltz, on the company's board could lead to conflict, but cited comments from Ackman made earlier this year in which he said he would be happy to work with Peltz.
“If I ran a company, I would be delighted to have Nelson on my board,” the paper quoted Ackman as saying. “I really mean that. I think it’s very, very helpful to a C.E.O. to have a major shareholder on the board, so that you can get input from a shareholder before you -- you can test something internally.”
HONG KONG — As China adjusts to what President Xi Jinping calls a “new normal” of more modest economic growth, U.S. tech giant Apple may be undergoing a similar transition, at least for now.
The company has endured an unpleasant few weeks. Its stock has dropped 14 percent since July 20, when it announced third-quarter earnings that failed to live up to Wall Street's high expectations. It has also endured three five-day losing streaks in the past month, raising the specter of 2012, when its stock price crumbled from $100 to $55 over seven months.
There are multiple concerns driving Apple's current stock correction. Some investors believe that the company's new Watch has not lived up to expectations; others that it had failed to meet admittedly high targets for iPhone sales. Many analysts seem to agree, however, that the extent to which the company is intertwined with a China that is experiencing an economic slowdown will hamper its ability to deliver the kind of phenomenal growth it has seen in recent years.
Concern about China's economic performance has peaked in recent weeks, as the stock market has seen significant drops, and the government's attempts at intervention appear to have succeeded in exposing regulatory disarray. The country had already been experiencing a slowdown as it sought to transition away from polluting manufacturing industries.
China is a key market for Apple and one that has allowed the company to deliver some spectacular results in recent months. Its first-quarter 2015 results showed a 40 percent year-on-year jump in iPhone sales, and a 55 percent jump in revenue from those sales, driven strongly by demand in China.
Competition in the Chinese market, however, is heating up. Reports this week revealed that Apple had lost its place as the largest smartphone vendor in China, being overtaken local firms Xiaomi and Huawei, who hold 15.9 percent and 15.7 percent of China's smartphone market respectively, Fortune reported.
“If China is slowing, that's one of the bigger smartphone markets, it's probably going to be an issue because that's where Apple has opportunity to gain some share," Sherri Scribner of Deutsche Bank Research told CNBC.
“Apple's grown 40 percent this year probably, based on our estimates with the new phones. It's going to be very difficult for them to see that type of growth off of a 40 percent base considering how big they are," she added.
Irwin Lipkin, one of Bernard Madoff's longest-serving employees, was sentenced to six months in prison Wednesday for falsifying records that helped the imprisoned fraudster carry out his multibillion-dollar Ponzi scheme.
The sentencing before U.S. District Judge Laura Taylor Swain in Manhattan marked the end of the criminal prosecutions stemming from the fraud, more than six years after Madoff's arrest sent shockwaves through Wall Street.
Lipkin, 77, was the Madoff firm's controller from 1964 to 1998. He was the last of 15 defendants who either pleaded guilty or were convicted at trial to be sentenced.
Madoff, also 77, is serving a 150-year prison term after pleading guilty in 2009 to masterminding the scheme, estimated to have cost investors $17 billion in principal.
Lipkin pleaded guilty in 2012 but, like other defendants, said he was unaware Madoff was running a Ponzi scheme.
"Smarter people than myself were taken in by him," Lipkin, who was confined to a wheelchair, told Swain on Wednesday.
But Assistant U.S. Attorney David Abramowicz said Lipkin, and others, helped Madoff perpetuate his scheme through their crimes, even if they didn't know the entire truth.
"The lesson we've seen in this parade of guilty defendants is: Bernard Madoff didn't do this alone," he told Swain. "He needed help, and he found it in people like Irwin Lipkin."
Swain said she would have imposed a far longer sentence if not for Lipkin's age and poor health.
In addition to six months in prison, Swain sentenced Lipkin to 1-1/2 years of home confinement. She also said the Federal Bureau of Prisons could convert his prison term to home confinement if necessary for his health.
Lipkin was accused of falsifying records to fool government regulators and help Madoff mislead tax auditors about his income.
He also arranged for fake trades in his investment accounts for tax reasons and kept himself and his wife on the firm's payroll even when they were not employed there, prosecutors said.
Unlike several other defendants who pleaded guilty, Lipkin did not cooperate with prosecutors.
Five Madoff employees -- back-office director Daniel Bonventre, portfolio managers Annette Bongiorno and JoAnn Crupi and computer programmers Jerome O'Hara and George Perez -- were found guilty by a jury last year on all counts.
They were sentenced to between 2-1/2 and 10 years in prison and are appealing their convictions.
The case is U.S. v. O'Hara et al, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York, No. 10-cr-00228.
Shares of Tesla Motors Inc. (Nasdaq:TSLA) fell more than 5 percent to $255 in after-hours trading Wednesday, after the Model S luxury electric car manufacturer backed away from its annual sales forecast. The Palo Alto, California, carmaker released tepid second-quarter earnings performance and said it will sell fewer cars than expected in 2015.
“When you’re priced for perfection you have to deliver for perfection,” said Standard & Poor’s equity analyst Efraim Levy, referring to Wall Street's immediate reaction to Tesla's forecast adjustment.
Tesla said in its letter to shareholders that it expects to deliver between 50,000 and 55,000 vehicles this year, a downgrade from a previous estimate of “approximately 55,000,” the company said it would deliver in its first-quarter letter. Because Tesla isn’t expected to turn a profit for years, sales growth is critical.
“We do think it’s going to be quite a challenging production round on the [Model] X, and we only want to deliver great cars,” CEO Elon Musk said during a conference call Wednesday. “We don’t want to drive to the number beyond our ability to deliver high-quality vehicles.”
Tesla reduced its production estimates for next year from an average of about 2,000 vehicles a week to 1,600 to 1,800 vehicles a week.
Tesla said it still expects to deliver the first Model X sport utility vehicles to customers by the end of September and that it produced a record 12,807 cars in the three months ended June 30. “Since Model S and Model X are produced on the same general assembly line, Model X production challenges could slow Model S production,” said the letter to shareholders.
Tesla Motors reported an unadjusted loss of $184 million, or $1.45 per share, for the three months ended June 30, compared to a loss of $61.9 million, or 50 cents per share, in the same period last year. Analysts polled by Thomson Reuters has forecast an unadjusted loss of $126.1 million, or $1.02 a share.
The company reported $1.20 billion in revenue for the quarter, up from $857.5 million in the year-ago quarter. Analysts had expected about $1.18 billion.
The company ended the quarter with $1.15 billion in cash and cash equivalents, and spent $359 million in the quarter. Most of the cash burn had to do with retooling the Fremont, California, factory to accommodate Model X manufacturing.
U.S. stocks closed mostly higher Wednesday, with the S&P 500 and Nasdaq snapping three straight days of losses. However, the Dow Jones Industrial Average closed lower after shares from media and entertainment giant Walt Disney Co. tumbled 9 percent following its latest mixed earnings results. 
The Dow (INDEXDJX:.DJI) edged down 10.22 points, or 0.06 percent, to close at 17,540.47. The S&P 500 index (INDEXSP:.INX) added 6.52 points, or 0.31 percent, to end at 2,099.84. And the Nasdaq composite (INDEXNASDAQ:.IXIC) gained 34.40 points, or 0.67 percent, to finish at 5,139.94.
Seven of the 10 S&P 500 sectors closed higher, led by gains in information technology and consumer staples. The consumer discretionary and energy sectors were the biggest decliners, both down around 1 percent.
Walt Disney Co. (NYSE:DIS) led the Dow lower Wednesday, plunging 9 percent after the company missed revenue estimates and cut its outlook for profits in the cable business a day earlier. Dow component UnitedHealth Group Inc. (NYSE:UNH) was the biggest gainer in the index, adding 2.5 percent.
Shares of Etsy Inc. (NASDAQ:ETSY) plunged 28 percent, a day after the online crafts marketplace posted a loss for the April-June quarter, driven by a strong U.S. dollar and higher marketing expenses. The results marked the second straight disappointing report since the company went public in April.
Notable companies reporting quarterly earnings after the closing bell include electric car maker Tesla Motors Inc., wearable technology company Fitbit Inc. and weight loss company Herbalife Ltd.
Market professionals are also looking ahead to Thursday’s financial calendar, with weekly jobless claims -- the number of Americans filing new claims for unemployment -- due out at 8:30 a.m. EDT.
The jobless claims report follows a report Wednesday that showed private employers added 185,000 jobs last month, down from the 229,000 jobs added in June, according to ADP.
U.S. jobless claims increased 12,000 to a seasonally adjusted 267,000 for the week ended July 25, the Labor Department said last week. Economists forecast that jobless claims last week rose by 6,000 to 273,000 for the week ending August 1, according to analysts polled by Thomson Reuters.
In the week ending July 25, the advance figure for seasonally adjusted initial claims was 267,000, an increase of 12,000 from the previous week's unrevised level of 255,000.  Photo: U.S. Labor Department
Meanwhile, the pace of growth in the U.S. service sector soared in July, recording its best reading in a decade. The nonmanufacturing purchasing managers index rose to 60.3 in July from 56.0 in June, its highest reading since August 2005, the Institute for Supply Management said Wednesday.
A reading above 50 signifies an expansion in activity.
The gains were driven by business activity, employment and new orders as respondents were confident about the economy, pointing to solid growth in the second quarter, says Gregory Daco, head of U.S. macroeconomics at Capital Economics.
“Nonmanufacturing activity remains much stronger than manufacturing activity, which is weighed down by the dual headwinds of a strong dollar and weak global demand,” Daco said.
The pace of growth in the U.S. service sector soared in July, recording its best reading in a decade. The non-manufacturing purchasing managers index rose to 60.3 in July from 56.0 in June, the Institute for Supply Management said Wednesday.  Photo: Institute for Supply Management
Separately, data showed the U.S. trade deficit widened in June, rising 7.1 percent to $43.8 billion. Exports were down 0.1 percent as a strong dollar continues to weigh, while imports were up 1.2 percent driven by higher imports from Europe. Economists had expected the deficit to rise to $42.8 billion.
Economists are noticing a trend: the stronger dollar making U.S. products less attractive to overseas buyers and overseas products more attractive to domestic buyers. “This trend may well continue for a bit longer, although note [that] the impact of the stronger dollar will probably fade before long and the domestic economy is strong enough to compensate,” Steve Murphy, U.S. economist at Capital Economics, said in a research note Wednesday.
Economists say this doesn’t point to a revision to the 2.3 percent annualized increase in U.S. gross domestic product in the second quarter.
A strengthening domestic economy, particularly consumer spending and business investment, will help support gross domestic product growth of 2.5 to 3 percent annualized over the second half of the year, Murphy said.
Following Netflix's Tuesday announcement that its employees can take a full year of unlimited, paid parental leave, Microsoft responded Wednesday with an extension of its own policy that will give mothers up to 20 weeks of paid parental leave.
Microsoft said mothers and fathers can now take up to 12 weeks for parental leave and receive 100 percent payment. That's up from the company's previous policy of 12 weeks of parental leave, of which only four were paid. Microsoft is also giving mothers another two weeks of short-term disability leave prior to their scheduled due date. 
The policy revision comes on top of the eight weeks of fully paid maternity disability leave that Microsoft already offered, meaning mothers at the Redmond, Washington, company can now take off 22 weeks -- of which 20 will be fully paid -- to care for their new children. Additionally, Microsoft will give its employees the option of taking their parental leave in one continuous 12-week period or two split periods. Employees also will be able to work part-time when they return. The new policies will take effect Nov. 1. 
"As we ask our employees to bring their 'A' game to work every day to achieve our mission, we believe it’s our responsibility to create an environment where people can do their best work," Microsoft said in a blog post. "A key component of this is supporting our employees with benefits that matter most to them."
Besides extended parental leave benefits, Microsoft added two new holidays to the company calendar, giving its employees Martin Luther King Day and Presidents Day starting in 2016. The company also beefed up its 401(k) benefits and said it will now match 50 percent of all employee deferrals, up from matching 6 percent.
"The people of Microsoft truly are what make our company great," Microsoft said. "These changes are in direct support of the culture we aspire to have -- one that allows people to build meaningful careers."
Wednesday's confirmation that the flaperon found on Reunion Island belonged to Malaysia Airlines Flight 370, or MH370, could be the beginning of the end of the search for the missing plane. But in every statement made Wednesday about the debris, officials were certain to mention the victims of the assumed crash.
"It is my hope that this confirmation, however tragic and painful, will at least bring certainty to the families and loved ones of the 239 people onboard MH 370," Malaysian Prime Minister Najib Razak said in a news conference. "They have our deepest sympathy and prayers.  ... We mourn with you, as a nation. And I promise you this: Malaysia will always remember and honor those who were lost on board MH370."
There were 239 people on board MH370 when it disappeared March 8, 2014. Twelve were crew members, 227 were passengers. They were all presumed dead after an exhaustive search of the Indian Ocean turned up nothing.
Their nationalities were as follows, according to the manifest: 152 Chinese, 50 Malaysian, seven Indonesian, six Australian, five Indian, four French and three American. There were two people each from Ukraine, New Zealand, Iran and Canada, and one person each from Hong Kong, the Netherlands, Russia and Taiwan.
College students light candles as they pray for passengers of Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 in Yangzhou, China, March 13, 2014. Photo: Reuters
The two Iranians, identified as Pouria Nour Mohammad Mehrdad and Delavar Seyed Mohammadreza, initially caused suspicion because they were traveling with stolen passports. Interpol determined they had no terror connections and had been hoping to seek asylum in Europe.
A group of more than 20 Chinese artists also was on the plane, including calligrapher Liu Rusheng, who had started carrying around a rubber stamp reading "God bless me" after his three heart attacks, the Daily Beast reported. The oldest person aboard was also a calligrapher: Lou Baotang, 79.
The youngest passenger, Wang Moheng, was 23 months old. He was returning from vacation with his parents and grandparents, Express reported. In all, seven of the victims were children.
One of the Americans was IBM executive Philip Wood, whose girlfriend Sarah Bajc supported a $100,000 Indiegogo crowdfunding campaign to raise money to reward anyone who helped find the plane. A Malaysian woman, Norli Akmar Hamid, was on her honeymoon. One of the Australians, Mary Burrow, was a retired policewoman -- and soon-to-be grandmother -- on vacation.
Read more stories about the MH370 victims here and here.
Consider it a uniquely American approach to offering healthcare. In the three years since the U.S. Supreme Court ruled in favor of the Affordable Care Act’s coverage requirements, the nation’s top health insurers have reaped a windfall.
As insurance premiums and healthcare costs continue to increase, the balance sheets of major health insurance providers show not only a surge in revenue and profits, but also a startling increase in the dividends they pay to shareholders. The system aimed at expanding healthcare to millions of Americans is also handsomely rewarding insurers and their investors.
UnitedHealth's share price is up nearly 101 percent since the U.S. Supreme Court ruled that the Affordable Care Act had a Constitutional right to levy fines on Americans who don't have health insurance through their employers or government exchanges.  Photo: Reuters
Financial statements from the nation’s top three health insurance providers show an average revenue increase of 43 percent from 2010 through 2014. Meanwhile, UnitedHealth Group Inc (NYSE:UNH), Anthem Inc (NYSE:ANTM) and Aetna Inc (NYSE:AET) increased shareholder dividend payments from a combined $465.1 million in 2010 to $2.12 billion last year, a 356 percent jump. And in 2014 alone, the three companies spent more than $8 billion in stock buybacks.
Since the Supreme Court’s June 28, 2012, ruling, UnitedHealth Group’s stock price has leaped 101 percent while Anthem’s and Aetna’s shares have risen 135 percent and 186 percent, respectively. During the same period, the Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 40 percent while the S&P 500 Index gained 58 percent.
The rally comes as federal data released Tuesday shows healthcare costs increased 5.5 percent last year, the biggest rise since 2008, and will continue to increase by an average of 5.8 percent a year through 2024. Per capita private insurance premium growth is expected to slow to 2.8 percent this year, but a greater number working Americans are paying higher deductibles. Meanwhile, workers' wages have stagnated. 

“If you look around the world at other big economies, they treat health care as a right and they try to control costs because the market doesn’t do that,” said Richard Kirsch, senior fellow at the Roosevelt Institute, a progressive nonprofit group.  “One of the things that we’ve faulted about the Affordable Care Act it that the out-of-pocket costs and premiums are too high.”
Kirsch, who says he favors Obamacare in general, notes that larger problems in the economy have made it difficult for many working Americans to get affordable health plans. While low income and unemployed Americans receive government subsidies, many working Americans earn too much to qualify for significant assistance under the act.
Anthem Inc's share price is up 135 percent since the June 28, 2012, Supreme Court ruling that upheld Obamacare. Photo: Reuters
A national survey by the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation released in June found that almost 8 out of 10 uninsured Americans who sought coverage in the previous 12 months said they couldn’t find a plan they could afford. Most of the survey respondents were employed and said they had less than $100 left every month after paying bills and less than $100 in savings.

To be sure, the Affordable Care Act has brought health insurance to millions of people. A Gallup poll concluded that the percentage of uninsured adults in the country has dropped from 14.6 percent in the first quarter of 2008 to 11.9 percent in the first three months of the year. But compared with other developed nations, the uninsured rate is still alarmingly high.
A 2013 report from the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), the global organization tracking the top 34 most industrialized countries, found that the United States ranked at the bottom of the list for achieving universal health coverage for all of its citizens. Out of the 34 countries traced by the OECD, 20 had 100 percent coverage and six had coverage above 99 percent.
Even with the gains made in the past couple of years, the U.S. remains in a club that includes Estonia, Mexico and the Slovak Republic in terms of the proportion of citizens who have neither public nor private health insurance. And it’s the only country on the list that relies so heavily on the private sector to extend health benefits to its people.
Aetna Inc's shares are up more than 186 percent in the same period of time.  Photo: Reuters
Mireille Jacobson, associate professor of economics and public policy and Director of the Center for Health Care Management and Policy at The Merage School of Business, points out that rising costs have at least one benefit: They coincide with improved quality of care.
 “One thing that people in the healthcare debate lose a little sight of is this: healthcare costs were less in 1960, but you wouldn’t want the healthcare from 1960.”
UPDATE, 2:25 p.m. EDT: Paris deputy prosecutor Serge Mackowiak said in a news conference that there is "very strong supposition that the flaperon found in Réunion belongs to MH370." He added that more analysis will continue on Thursday.
Deputy Paris Prosecutor explains how the Reunion Island debris was identified as being from missing Flight MH370 https://t.co/nhzVing9rq
&mdash; Sky News Tonight (@SkyNewsTonight) August 5, 2015
UPDATE, 2:15 p.m. EDT: Malaysia Airlines called the flaperon confirmation a "major breakthrough" in figuring out what happened to MH370. The company added it expected and hoped there will be "more objects found which would be able to help resolve this mystery."
Map showing #MH370 search update with ocean current drift zone, Inmarsat pings, surface searched area and new debris. pic.twitter.com/yIYjnZCBm1
&mdash; Jay Minden (@FlightSMS) July 30, 2015
The wing part was not the only piece of debris that Reunion Island residents have turned up. Since the flaperon's discovery, people have given authorities old shoes, scrap metal, a wallet, a tea kettle, a Frisbee and part of a ladder, according to previous International Business Times reporting. None of those have been conclusively linked to the plane.
UPDATE, 2:05 p.m. EDT: “It is with a very heavy heart that I must tell you that an international team of experts has conclusively confirmed that the aircraft debris found on Reunion Island is indeed from MH370,” Razak said in a news conference. "We now have physical evidence that, as I announced on 24th March last year, flight MH370 tragically ended in the southern Indian Ocean."

The flaperon was found on the island's beach last week and later transported to Toulouse, France, for analysis.
Malaysia Airlines released a statement sending condolences to the relatives and friends of the 239 people who were on board the plane when it went missing. "Family members of passengers and crew have already been informed and we extend our deepest sympathies to those affected," it read.
Original story: Malaysian Prime Minister Najib Razak has reportedly confirmed that debris found on the French Reunion Island belongs to Malaysia Airlines Flight 370, which disappeared in March 2014 without a trace.
PM @NajibRazak confirms that the debris from Réunion Island is indeed #MH370
&mdash; Patrick Lee (@patricklee_msia) August 5, 2015
This is a developing story. Check back for updates.
The United States' Securities and Exchange Commission narrowly voted Wednesday to adopt the controversial pay ratio rule. By a 3-2 margin along party lines, the members approved the rule, which forces public companies to publish their chief executive officers' total annual compensation as a ratio to their employees' median total compensation, MarketWatch reported.
Wednesday's decision was a long time coming. Congress passed the rule as part of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act in 2010, and the SEC proposed it in 2013, NPR reported. It has proven to be divisive, with Republicans and trade groups arguing it would be unnecessarily costly and burdensome.
The rule was due to take effect for companies' first fiscal year starting on or after Jan. 1, 2017.
The Securities and Exchange Commission adopted a “pay ratio” rule Wednesday that will force publicly traded companies to disclose a comparisons between what top executives earn and the salaries of workers. The vote will bring to life a few controversial lines written into the Dodd-Frank financial reform law in 2010 that have existed in a state of suspended animation amid resistance from major corporations and business trade groups. But it’s unclear whether the rule will serve to shame companies into adopting more equitable pay regimes or align the interests of corporate shareholders with those of workers.
The commission’s final vote won’t go unopposed. More fighting is likely on the way, as one of the SEC’s two Republican commissioners has already predicted a possible court challenge. Supporters of the rulemaking, however, say it will carry substantial weight. Investors and the public have known for years what top executives earn. Never, though, have companies had to spell out a multiple of what the boss earns compared with the wages of the median employee.
“It’s going to be a big number. It’s going to disrupt the operations of the company,” says Charles Elson, a critic of rising CEO pay and expert on corporate governance at the University of Delaware.
The requirement, slipped into the Dodd-Frank law at the 11th hour, was never the type of metric that investors were clamoring to know. It is instead, Elson says, meant to “shock the employees to demand change. It’s designed to create dissension.”
The provision came about at a time when many were concerned that run-away CEO compensation contributed to the financial crisis. (The Dodd-Frank law also gave shareholders a non-binding “say on pay” vote to tell companies whether they’re for or against the CEO’s compensation amount).
The SEC’s proposal to flesh out the pay ratio — first released in September 2013 — has taken place against the sharpening national debate over income inequality and stagnant worker wages. Whereas inflation-adjusted CEO pay at the 350 largest companies by revenue skyrocketed 997 percent between 1978 and 2014, the annual salary of a “typical” worker (i.e. not a supervisor) grew only 10.9 percent, according to a recent analysis by the Economic Policy Institute, a left-leaning think tank in Washington, D.C. The CEO-to-worker pay ratio, the study found, grew from 20-to-1 in 1965 to 303-to-1 in 2014. The ratio hit a peak of 376-to-1 in 2000.

Elson says the new disclosure requirement could staunch the trend. “I think it’s going to force companies to refigure CEO pay, and realign it for how pay is constructed for the rest of the organization,” Elson says.
From an investor standpoint, the disclosure will offer shareholders an additional data point by which to identify potential concerns, according to Timothy Smith, a senior vice president at Walden Asset Management. The socially responsible investment manager, together with its parent, Boston Trust, has $8 billion in assets under management. "For an investor, this is not about the embarrassment factor," says Smith. "It's saying, moving forward, we believe companies should be paying attention to trends in compensation for executives and compensation for workers."
Pegging CEO paychecks to what others in the company earn would indeed signal a marked shift in how boards of directors usually determine those salaries. Boards often rely on “peer groups” — what CEOs earn at other companies — to gauge what their own leader should make. In theory, this provides boards with an objective standard to judge pay, and they can choose to compensate their chief executive below, at, or above a given benchmark.
In reality, though, both boards and CEOs often believe (or want to believe) that their CEO is worth more than what his peers are making. “The comparison to everyone else means there’s just this pressure to make the number higher and higher,” says J. Robert Brown, a professor at the University of Denver Sturm College of Law.
This also puts a company’s board of directors in an awkward position when the chief executive comes to them and asks for a raise. ”That’s a hard argument to turn down to your CEO: We don’t think you're worth what these other CEOs are worth,” Brown explains.
 
The new pay ratio rule, however, could give board members an out — a solid excuse to temper the CEO’s pay if they want to avoid a ratio that looks, well, bad on paper. “It provides the compensation committee with an incentive to pay less in [executive] compensation in order to have a good ratio,” says Brown. "I think that’s where it will have an effect.”
Opponents of the rule however, contend that it won’t move the needle either way on pay — not up for workers, nor down for chief executives. Companies pay their workers according to the demands of the market, just as boards pay their CEOs “what they believe is appropriate and consistent with the market to get the best talent possible to manage the company,” says Timothy Bartl, president of the Center on Executive Compensation, research and advocacy group for human resource officers.
The regulation “will not result in pay changes,” Bartl says. What it will do, he argues, is divert time and resources away from areas that actually matter to investors. “There will be a cost to it, and that cost will result in companies paying attention to things that don’t have significant impact” to shareholders, Bartl says.
Heather Slavkin Corzo, director of the AFL-CIO office of investment, notes that compensation across all levels of the company effects employee morale and productivity. If workers are "not motivated by their compensation," she says, "then it has an impact from an investor perspective.” 
U.S. stocks traded higher in afternoon trading Wednesday as shares of tech giant Apple Inc. (NASDAQ:AAPL) turned positive following two sessions of sharp losses. Meanwhile, investors weighed a mixed report that showed private sector job growth slowed in July, which could dampen the Federal Reserve’s prospects for raising interest rates in September
The Dow Jones Industrial Average (INDEXDJX:.DJI) rose 42.12 points, or 0.24 percent, to 17,592.81. The S&P 500 index (INDEXSP:.INX) added 11.62 points, or 0.55 percent, to 2,104.87. And the Nasdaq composite (INDEXNASDAQ:.IXIC) gained 53.64 points, or 1.05 percent, to 5,159.24.
Nine out of the 10 S&P 500 sectors traded higher, led by a nearly 2 percent gain in information technology. The consumer discretionary sector was the only decliner, down 0.6 percent.
The Dow received a boost after shares of Apple rebounded and gained 2 percent, to trade as high as $118, after the stock tumbled below its 200-day moving average Monday for the first time since September 2013. The gains also helped boost the S&P 500 and Nasdaq composite higher. 
Meanwhile, shares of Dow component Walt Disney Co. (NYSE:DIS) was the biggest laggard in the index, plunging nearly 9 percent after the company missed revenue estimates a day earlier.
Shares of Netflix Inc. (NASDAQ:NFLX) rallied 4 percent higher a day after the company’s stock surged to close at a record high after the online movie streaming service confirmed plans to expand into Asia. Netflix also announced Wednesday it is offering “unlimited” paid parental leave for employees for a year.
Netflix, which has a market value of nearly $53 billion, is the best performer this year in the Nasdaq 100.
Shares of the company have gained more than 155 percent since January. 
Data released Wednesday revealed private employers hired 185,000 workers last month, the ADP National Employment Report showed. The figure was below economists' forecasts for an increase of 215,000, according to analysts polled by Thomson Reuters.
The report comes ahead of the U.S. government's highly-anticipated employment report Friday, which economists expect to show nonfarm payrolls increased 223,000 in July. The unemployment rate is expected to remain at 5.3 percent.
Although job growth has averaged 208,000 per month in the first half of 2015, down somewhat from an average of 246,000 in all of 2014, economists are still optimistic about overall job growth in the U.S. labor market.
“This is still more than enough to keep up with underlying growth in the labor force, and thus the job market continues to absorb the slack remaining from the Great Recession,” Gus Faucher, senior macroeconomist at PNC, said in a research note Wednesday.
Before the millennial generation, young adults in the United States seemed to follow a relatively set schedule: Find a job, get a spouse, buy a house, start a family. But student debt may have disrupted those plans for today's youth. About 56 percent of 18- to 35-year-olds say they've put off a major life event because of their loan payments, compared to 45 percent of in-debt Americans overall, according to a Bankrate.com survey released Wednesday.
The average college graduate leaves school with more than $30,000 in student loans, which is about 80 percent of their average income, according to New America. The typical monthly loan payment is about $300. 
In order to afford this, millennials told Bankrate they'd put off certain milestones. The most delayed events were buying a house and buying a car, followed by getting married and saving for retirement. Having children came last on the list.
Student loan debt kind of makes me feel like a serf. Also, my parents *hate* me because I can&#39;t move out.
&mdash; Jenna M. Dorsi (@JennaMichelle29) August 3, 2015
I can&#39;t think of anything I hate more than paying this $300 student loan bill every month
&mdash; Pinto (@iTalkTwit) July 31, 2015
I can&#39;t wait to be done paying off my student loan so I can really enjoy life
&mdash; Ritaa. ✌️ (@RitaX0X0) July 31, 2015
Priorities shifted as respondents' ages increased. About 53 percent of 30- to 49-year-olds said they'd delayed a life event, but they tended to put off saving for retirement before getting married. That was true among people 50 and older, as well. But their student debt load was likely lighter, partly because college was less expensive years ago and partly because they'd already had decades to pay it off.
Regardless of reason, demographic statistics already reflected this trend. The average marrying age for women in 2011 was about 27, and for men it was about 30. Census data shows in the 1950s, the average ages were about 20 and 23, respectively.
The change wasn't going unnoticed, either. "Rising student debt burdens may prove to be one of the more painful aftershocks of the Great Recession, especially if left unaddressed,” Rohit Chopra, the assistant director and student loan ombudsman for the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, said in 2013. 
Bankrate recommended young people get budgets and financial plans so they didn't have to postpone anything else. But that might not be a solution for everyone. “If I were in debt for half as much, I would still say it was too much debt,” recent graduate Mallory Bayers told USA Today. “It’s going to take half my life to pay all this money back for a degree I haven’t exactly put to work yet.”
A scarcity of temporary stadium options is slowing the National Football League’s plan to permanently move at least one franchise to Los Angeles. Just one of five L.A.-area sites the NFL eyed as temporary homes for a relocated franchise have expressed willingness to host a team, a report said Tuesday. 
The NFL approached officials from five stadium sites last month to gauge their interest in hosting a pro football franchise during construction of a permanent arena elsewhere. University of Southern California officials said the school-operated Coliseum, home to the USC Trojans football team, could house one NFL team, the Los Angeles Times reported.
Of the four remaining sites, the StubHub Center and the Rose Bowl each opted not to respond to the NFL’s inquiry. Dodger Stadium and Angel Stadium, which host professional baseball teams, did not provide a conclusive response. The NFL and MLB’s seasons intersect in August and September, which could lead to scheduling conflicts.
Three NFL franchises – the San Diego Chargers, the Oakland Raiders and the St. Louis Rams – have vowed to relocate to Los Angeles if they were unable to reach a deal for a new stadium in their current markets. League officials will meet later this month to discuss progress in the potential Los Angeles relocation and to hear presentations from the Carson and Inglewood, California stadium proposals.
It's unclear if the NFL's proposals to any of the four sites included financial terms. NFL stadium lease agreements vary. The Chargers' agreement to lease Qualcomm Stadium from the city of San Diego, for example, calls for the franchise to pay the city approximately $3 million per year. But clauses within the lease agreement require the city to offer rent credits to the Chargers based on concession and parking revenues, stadium suite use and property tax rebates. As a result, the city of San Diego was forced to pay the Chargers $3.2 million from 2006 to 2013, much to the chagrin of the lease’s critics.
The Raiders and Chargers announced a plan in February to jointly pursue a two-team, $1.7 billion NFL stadium in Carson, near downtown Los Angeles, if stadium talks fell through in their respective home cities. Rams owner Stan Kroenke is among the financial backers of the $1.86 billion project in Inglewood. Both Los Angeles stadium projects are privately financed.
The NFL has not set a formal timeline for a move to Los Angeles. Any relocation would have to be approved by 24 of the league’s 32 owners, and the franchise making the move would be subject to relocation fees.
New York Giants owner John Mara said this week that as many as two franchises could move to Los Angeles by the start of the 2016 season. “Maybe a temporary stadium, but I think – and this is just my opinion – that one or two teams will be playing somewhere in L.A. next year. But we’ll see,” Mara said Monday on WFAN 660 Radio in New York, according to Sports Illustrated.
Brooklyn's century-old former Dime Savings Bank of New York is a grand landmark in its own right. Adorned with fluted columns, it resembles a neo-classical temple, while its gilded interior has been described as beautiful and a "stately environment."
But Michael Stern, a luxury real estate developer, was after something else when he struck a deal to buy the building for $90 million: accompanying development rights that would allow him to build a new skyscraper next door, a building potentially the height of the Empire State Building. It would be the latest in a spate of construction that has seen several soaring residential towers go up in New York City in recent years -- including 432 Park Avenue. 
Because Stern owns the property next door to the bank, 340 Flatbush Avenue Extension, the combined air and development rights could allow him to build a tower of nearly 600,000 square feet, Crain's New York reported Wednesday. He could build a residential skyscraper that might exceed the Empire State Building, which stands 1,454 feet tall, Crain's reported, citing an unnamed source who was familiar with the transaction.
After all, Stern already has a history of similarly lofty projects. He is currently building an apartment complex in Manhattan designed to be higher than 1,400 feet. Condominiums there start at $14 million, according to a website for the building, 11 West 57th Street.
Speculation about whether Brooklyn could acquire a new high-rise began as early as last year, when JPMorgan Chase & Co., which last owned the Dime Savings Bank building, decided to put the property on the market in December. Several people took note of the air rights with which it came and the potential for someone to build a soaring skyscraper next door. 
The tallest building in Brooklyn is currently at 388 Bridge Street. The 53-story luxury apartment-condominium complex, which stands 595 feet tall and includes a movie theater, opened in 2014. 
Critics of the uptick in luxury real estate development in New York City argue that it contributes to a worsening housing crisis, particularly in Brooklyn. Rental prices are rising steadily, pushed ever higher by a sales market that is filled with an increasing number of high-end apartments.
A former assistant professor at Northwest Christian University in Eugene, Oregon, has filed a $650,000 lawsuit against the university, alleging she was fired two weeks ago because she became pregnant out of wedlock, The Register-Guard reported. Coty Richardson, 35, filed the lawsuit Tuesday in Lane County Circuit Court.
Richardson notified university officials in May that she was expecting a child. The suit alleges she was told by her then-employer if she wanted to keep her job, she would either have to proclaim the pregnancy a mistake and break up with the father, her boyfriend of 12 years, or get married immediately. Richardson refused the ultimatum and requested privacy in her personal life. She received a letter of termination July 30 stating in part, “sexual relations outside of marriage is contrary to the university’s core values” and the pregnancy “would result in a very demonstrative violation of that core value.”
Richardson also alleged after she disclosed her pregnancy to Dennis Lindsay, the university’s vice president for academic affairs and dean of faculty, he told her, “having a child out of wedlock while still continuing a relationship with the father ... set[s] a ‘bad example’ for the students."
The lawsuit Richardson filed accuses the university of civil rights violations and employment discrimination, wrongful termination, repudiation of contract and intentional infliction of emotional distress. It asks for $150,000 to reimburse Richardson for economic losses and $500,000 to compensate her for emotional distress and other noneconomic damages.
The university violated state employment laws not only by discriminating against her for becoming pregnant, but also because “[Richardson's] religious views that it is entirely appropriate for her, as a Christian, to wait until she and her partner are financially, practically and emotionally ready to get married,” the lawsuit states. Richardson was also discriminated against because of her gender, she said, since male employees had not been fired when their partners became pregnant out of wedlock.
Northwestern Christian University, established in 1895, is a private Christian liberal arts college. The university’s website states all full-time faculty members are expected to demonstrate “a maturing Christian faith.” The suit states Richardson provided a required faith statement to the school that discussed her religion and how it relates to her work, but thought she would not be discriminated against because of her pregnancy based on the faculty manual’s anti-discrimination policy.   
Richard had worked in the university’s exercise science program since August 2011.
In the past, there have been several cases involving religion and pregnancy. A teacher at a Christian school in Texas filed a lawsuit in 2012 after the school fired her for becoming pregnant.
Greece’s parliamentary spokesman for the ruling Syriza party called on lawmakers Wednesday to stand behind a new bailout agreement, and added that the country wanted a full bailout and not a temporary bridge loan.
Nikos Filis called for Greece and its international creditors to reach a full agreement that would see an immediate first payment of 25 billion euros ($27 billion).
"We are seeking to have a deal," he said on state television station ERT, cited by Reuters. "The deal will have tough measures. What is important is that the financing of the Greek economy starts."
His statement came one day after another Syriza official said that the country expected to have a finalized bailout agreement by mid-August, a sign that talks were moving forward after months of acrimony between Greece and its international creditors that raised worries of a Greek default and possible exit from the Eurozone.
Greece faces an Aug. 20 deadline to agree to a third bailout agreement or a second bridge loan, if the country is to pay off a $3.8 billion debt that matures then.
The country agreed last month to discuss a potential third bailout after months of increasingly hostile talks between the country and its creditors -- the International Monetary Fund, the European Central Bank and the European Commission -- which raised worries of a default.
However, Filis said on Wednesday that the country wanted a full bailout and not a stopgap loan, and called on all party members to stand behind any agreement.
"We will not accept new prior actions (reform conditions in place) in order to have a small bridge loan," Filis reportedly said. "We want one final deal to be signed and then we will see what is needed to have a disbursement of 25 billion euros as the first installment."
Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras has denounced an internal revolt from within Syriza, as about a quarter of the party’s lawmakers oppose further bailout deals, arguing that the economic reforms demanded by its creditors are suffocating. Syriza originally came to power in January promising a tough stance against the austerity measures that creditors have called for.
"Differences should not prevail over the party's unity and the country's stability," Filis said. "The leftist government will stay in power only if its leftist lawmakers vote in favor."
The initial optimism, triggered by hopes of a final bailout agreement, helped tamp down a nosedive earlier in the week in the country’s stock market, which plummeted over 20 percent on Monday after opening following a five-week hiatus.
On Wednesday, the market was down 3.3 percent as of 6:49 a.m. EDT.
LONDON (Reuters) - The dollar rose to its highest in more than three months and U.S. Treasury yields rebounded from two-month lows on Wednesday, after a Federal Reserve official said the central bank was close to raising interest rates.
The comments on Tuesday from Atlanta Federal Reserve President Dennis Lockhart, regarded as one of the Federal Open Market Committee's centrist policymakers, put next month back on the table for the first U.S. rate hike in almost a decade.
Solid European corporate earnings, notably from French bank Societe Generale, boosted stocks after Lockhart's comments and a slide in Apple shares soured sentiment the previous day.
The dollar's strength kept gold prices anchored near recent five-year lows, though oil clawed back a small part of the 20 percent it has lost in the past month.
"The market has been wrong-footed once more by the Federal Reserve," said Kathleen Brooks, research director at FOREX.com.
"A rate hike cometh - time for the market to play catch up."
The dollar index, which measures it against a basket of currencies, rose to 98.218, its highest since April 23.
The greenback was close to multi-year highs against emerging market currencies including the South African rand, Brazilian real and Indonesian rupiah.
The euro fell 0.25 percent to a two-week low of $1.0847.
DON'T FIGHT BULL MARKET
Investors narrowed the odds on a September U.S. rate hike, with Fed fund futures implying around a 1-in-2 chance, compared with around 1-in-3 after weak wage growth data last week.
Yields on 10-year Treasury notes rose 3 basis points on the day to 2.24 percent, having hit two-month lows around 2.14 percent earlier this week.
In stocks, Europe's index of the leading 300 shares was up 0.8 percent at 1,593 points, Britain's FTSE 100 was up a third of one percent and Germany's DAX up 1 percent.
France's CAC 40 was also up 1 percent, led by a 8.5 percent surge in SocGen shares after the bank reported second-quarter results that beat analysts' forecasts.
A report on Spain's service sector, which showed the fastest pace of growth in three months and strongest hiring in eight years, also boosted investor sentiment in Europe.
Earlier in Asia, Japan's Nikkei rose 0.5 percent but MSCI's broadest index ofAsia-Pacific shares outside Japan slipped 0.2 percent.
In China, the CSI300 index of the largest listed companies in Shanghai andShenzhen was flat after curbs on short-selling prompted a sizable bounce on Tuesday.
There were also signs Chinese consumers could be taking over from manufacturers as the driving force for growth as the Caixin/Markit survey of services climbed to its highest in 11 months.
Losses on Wall Street on Tuesday had been modest with the Dow ending 0.27 percent lower, while the S&P 500 eased 0.22 percent and the Nasdaq 0.19 percent.
Apple hit its lowest in over six months, apparently in part on worries about demand in China.
U.S. futures pointed to a higher open on Wall Street on Wednesday.
"Rate hikes eventually burst bubbles, but it usually takes at least three. We think it is still too early to fight this bull market," Citi's U.S. equity strategy team said in a note to clients.
In commodity markets, Brent oil rose 1 percent to $50.46 a barrel and U.S. crude gained 0.8 percent to $46.12, while gold eased to $1,085 an ounce.
An initial drift model that suggested debris from the missing Malaysia Airlines Flight MH370 could first wash up on Indonesian shores was inaccurate, the Australian Transport Safety Bureau (ATSB) said Wednesday. The focus of the search for the missing plane has now shifted to the island of Réunion in the Indian Ocean, after a part from an airplane wing was found there last week.
ATSB said the initial model, from June 2014, mistakenly indicated the west coast of Sumatra as the location where debris from the plane could wash ashore in the first few weeks of July 2014. However, models run by Australia's Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation (CSIRO) in November 2014, and updated last month, found that there was an “extremely low probability” that the plane’s debris would wash up in Indonesia.
The new report from CSIRO -- based on an analysis of ocean currents, winds and waves -- supports a theory that debris from Flight MH370 may have washed up "as far west of the search area" as the French island near Madagascar, where a flaperon was found last Wednesday. The current search for the Boeing 777-200 has so far been focused on a 46,332-square-mile part of the southern Indian Ocean, nearly 2,300 miles from the island.
“While this error in that model had no impact on the way the surface search was conducted, it was important in order to understand over the course of time where debris might wash up and help verify or discount the various items found on beaches, particularly on the west coast of Australia,” ATSB wrote in its report.
On Wednesday, Australia’s Deputy Prime Minister Warren Truss said that an expert from ATSB, which is leading the search for the plane, has been sent to Toulouse, France, to help authorities examining links of the Boeing 777 flaperon to the missing plane.
“An investigator from the ATSB will join the French and Malaysian-led international investigation team today to examine aircraft wreckage found on La Réunion,” Truss said, in a statement. “Malaysian authorities, who are responsible for investigating the disappearance of Malaysia Airlines flight MH370, have determined that the aircraft component retrieved from La Réunion is a flaperon from a B777 aircraft.”
Truss said that officials from Malaysia and France may release a “formal statement about the origin of the flaperon later this week.” 
Authorities are scouring the shoreline of Réunion Island to find objects that could help provide long-awaited answers to the mystery of the missing plane. Several “pieces of interest” were found Tuesday on the coastline around Saint-André, and are being analyzed for links to the missing plane. But, authorities have warned that no conclusion should be drawn pending confirmation about the debris.
John Page, an aircraft design expert at the University of New South Wales in Australia, told the Associated Press (AP) that if the wing fragment is confirmed to be from Flight MH370, it is possible that other debris may have floated off rather than sinking to the bottom of the ocean. Page reportedly said that while the plane’s fuselage likely may have sunk, other lightweight parts could still be afloat. 
"I'm certain other bits floated," Page told AP. "But whether they've washed up anywhere is another question. The chances of hitting an island are pretty low,"  he said, adding that the discovery of the flaperon suggested that the plane broke up after hitting the water.
Flight MH370 went missing on March 8, 2014, with 239 people on board, while on its way from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing. An international search operation, which has become the costliest in aviation history, has so far failed to provide concrete clues as to the whereabouts of the plane.
An Australian court Wednesday overturned a government approval for building Australia’s largest coal mine by India’s Adani Group. While environmentalists hailed the verdict against the controversial Carmichael coal mine project -- estimated to cost 16.5 billion Australian dollars ($12.2 billion) -- in Queensland, the Indian conglomerate said that the ruling was the result of a “technical legal error.”
The Federal Court of Australia found that the country’s Environment Minister Greg Hunt failed to properly consider advice about two vulnerable species -- the yakka skink and the ornamental snake -- that are found only in Queensland, the Sydney Morning Herald reported. The legal challenge was launched by the Mackay Conservation Group in January, alleging that greenhouse gas emissions from the mine threatened species and Adani's environmental track record had not been taken into account by the government at the time of granting approval for the coal mine in July 2014.
“The Minister conceded that he had made an error and Adani did as well that the proper process hadn't been followed in approving the Carmichael mine,” Ellen Roberts, a coordinator for the conservation group, told Sydney Morning Herald. "He is required to take advice from his department on threatened species into account and he didn't do that.”
The Adani Group reportedly said that "certain documents" were not presented by the Australian environment department when it finalized the mine and rail project, which is expected to produce up to 60 million tons of coal for export every year, mostly to India.
In an emailed statement to the Wall Street Journal, the company said it hoped the approval would be granted. “Adani is confident the conditions imposed on the existing approval are robust and appropriate once the technicality is addressed," it said.
According to the supporters of the project, it will help the Indian government bring electricity to millions of people currently living without power supply. Australian Prime Minister Tony Abbott also recently praised the project as a “miracle” that “could improve the lives of 100 million Indians.”
Meanwhile, the environment department said that a “technical administrative matter” messed up the way advice was provided to Hunt before he approved the project.
“Without pre-empting a final decision about the project, the department expects that it will take six to eight weeks to prepare its advice and the supporting documentation, and for the minister to reconsider his final decision,” the department said on its website.
Neiman Marcus Group Inc. filed for a $100 million initial public offering Tuesday, marking the second attempt by the luxury retailer to go public since 2013, the company said in an S1 filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The move comes less than two years after the Dallas department store group was bought by Ares Management and the Canada Pension Plan Investment Board for $6 billion; the purchase occurred after Neiman Marcus had filed plans to go public, in June 2013.
Neiman Marcus will list its stock under the ticker symbol “NMG,” but it has yet to name a stock exchange.
The retailer, which opened its first store in Dallas in 1907, was previously a publicly traded company, until it was acquired for $5.1 billion in 2005 by two private equity firms, Warburg Pincus and Texas Pacific Group.
In 1986, the company thwarted a hostile takeover bid by The Limited Brands Group by spinning off its specialty store division into an independent, publicly traded company called The Neiman Marcus Group, Inc.
Pedestrians walk past a mannequin displayed in the window of a Neiman Marcus Inc. store in San Francisco, on July 2, 2013.  Photo: Getty Images/David Paul Morris
The company posted $4.8 billion in revenue in 2014, and it hit 22 consecutive quarters of positive quarterly comparable revenue growth through the end of the quarter ending May 3, the company said.
Neiman Marcus Group Inc., which works with luxury designers Chanel, Gucci and Prada, operates a portfolio of stores, including the Neiman Marcus, Bergdorf Goodman and MyTheresa brands.
Neiman Marcus operates 41 full-line stores in marquee retail locations in major U.S. markets, while the Bergdorf Goodman brand caters to luxury clientele, operating two full-line stores, including its landmark locations on Fifth Avenue in New York City.
The MyTheresa brand, which was acquired by Neiman Marcus in October 2014, appeals to younger, fashion-forward, luxury customers, primarily from Europe, Asia and the Middle East, with one flagship store in Munich, Germany.
Aerin Lauder (center) surrounded by Neiman Marcus sales personnel at the AERIN Fragrance Launch at Neiman Marcus NorthPark on Nov. 14, 2013, in Dallas, Texas. Photo: Getty Images/Peter Larsen
The global luxury fashion market is projected to grow from $308 billion in 2015 to $354 billion in 2019, according to Euromonitor International, Neiman said in its SEC filing.
“The increasing demand for luxury fashion will be driven primarily by the growing affluence of luxury consumers in the North American and other developed markets and by the increasing desire for luxury goods exhibited by consumers in developing international markets, especially Asia and the Middle East,” the company said in the S1 filing.
The age of the average Neiman Marcus customer is 51, and 79 percent of them are female. Around 38 percent of its customers have a median household income of more than $200,000, according to the filing.
Neiman Marcus Inc. signage is displayed on the window of a store in San Francisco, on July 2, 2013.  Photo: Getty Images/David Paul Morris
Shares of Etsy Inc. (NASDAQ:ETSY) plunged 14 percent Tuesday in extended-hours trading after the online crafts marketplace posted a wider-than-expected loss for the April-June quarter. The company also warned a strong U.S. dollar could negatively affect sales growth in the current quarter.
The stock fell to as low as $16.46 in after-hours trading.
The earnings miss marked the company's second quarterly earnings announcement since going public in April. The Brooklyn, New York, e-commerce platform for handmade and vintage goods made its stock market debut in an initial public offering that valued the company at more than $3 billion.
Etsy’s debut was strong, demonstrating the stock market’s desire for a new tech IPO following a slow first quarter, but the stock price has declined since then. Etsy’s stock opened for trading on April 16 at $31 and rose as high as $35.67, more than doubling its initial price of $16 a share. The stock closed its first day of trading at $30, an 86 percent rise from its initial price.
But the company has now lost roughly 36 percent of its value since its IPO and has a market cap of $2.3 billion, based on the close of trading Tuesday.
Etsy shares fell more than 14 percent in extended-hours trading Tuesday after the online crafts marketplace posted a wider-than-expected loss last quarter.  Photo: Google Finance
Etsy is confronting profitability problems and has a history of operating losses. The e-commerce company warned ahead of its IPO that it might not achieve or maintain profitability in the future, as stated in its S1 filing.
Analysts downgraded Etsy shares earlier in May, warning that the company is facing a problem with counterfeit goods offered on its network. Wedbush Securities Inc. downgraded Etsy’s stock to Underperform from Neutral, with a 12-month price target of $14.
Counterfeit items include those that infringe on Louis Vuitton, Chanel and Michael Kors, and a wide range of Disney and NFL brands, the analysts said. A sample of high-risk listings indicated some violations may be 20 times more likely on Etsy than on eBay Inc. and even more likely than Alibaba Group Holding Ltd.’s Aliexpress, the firm said.
An employee works while sitting under a mural at Etsy Inc. headquarters in the Brooklyn borough of New York, U.S., on Monday, May 4, 2015. Etsy Inc., a marketplace for handmade and vintage goods, raised $267 million in its initial public offering.  Photo: Getty Images/Victor J. Blue
For the quarter ended June 30, Etsy reported a fiscal second-quarter net loss of $6.4 million, or 7 cents a share, as revenue grew 44 percent to $61.4 million, compared with a loss of $3.2 million, or 8 cents a share, on sales of $42.5 million during the same period a year ago.
Wall Street had expected the company to post a loss of $4.1 million, or 5 cents a share, on sales of $59.54 million, according to analysts polled by Thomson Reuters.
The site had 1.5 million active sellers and 21.7 million active buyers, as of June 30. That’s up 25 percent and 32 percent, respectively, from a year ago.
Spools of thread and pipe cleaners sit in the craft lab at Etsy Inc. headquarters in the Brooklyn borough of New York, U.S., on Monday, May 4, 2015. Etsy Inc., a marketplace for handmade and vintage goods, raised $267 million in its initial public offering.  Photo: Getty Images/Victor J. Blue
The International Monetary Fund should put off any move to add the yuan to its Special Drawing Rights currency basket until September 2016, an IMF staff report said, a move that would effectively end the Chinese currency's chances of an early inclusion.
The report, published on Tuesday, comes after Beijing launched a major diplomatic push for the yuan's inclusion in the IMF basket as part of its long-term strategic goal of reducing dependence on the dollar.
The report said the implementation of any formal decision to add the yuan to a basket ofcurrencies comprising dollars, euros, pounds and yen should be delayed so as not to disrupt financial market trading on the first day of 2016.
"The proposed extension, which will be decided by the Executive Board later this month, would not in any way prejudge the timing of conclusion or outcome of the review," said Siddharth Tiwari, director of the IMF's strategy, policy and review department.
It said that while the yuan, also known as the renminbi, met the requirements as a significant currency in terms of international trade, it did not meet criteria that it should be "freely usable".
"If the RMB (renminbi) were determined to be a freely usable currency, it would play a more central role in the Fund's financial operations going forward, and it would qualify for inclusion in the SDR basket," the report said.
European members of the Group of Seven major industrialized economies - Germany, Britain, France and Italy - favor adding the yuan to the basket this year. Japan, like the United States, is more cautious, officials have said.
The yuan has made huge strides since Beijing's last push for more formal international recognition of the currency, as global financial leaders were struggling to deal with the fallout of the sub-prime and banking crisis.
The IMF staff report recognized progress made by Beijing, noting that it was already the fifth most-used currency for international trade.
Chinese Premier Li Keqiang in March asked IMF Managing Director Christine Lagarde to push for inclusion, saying Beijing would speed up the convertibility of the yuan on the capital account and open domestic individual cross-border investment and foreign institutional investment in China's capital market.
Earlier this year, frustrated by the refusal of the U.S. Congress to pass reforms to increase the voting rights of emerging markets in the IMF, Beijing announced it would set up its own investment bank, the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank.
Despite pressure from Washington, which along with Tokyo, has declined to join AIIB, most U.S. allies in Europe have signed up for the Chinese-led initiative, seen as a rival to the World Bank and Japan-based Asian Development Bank.
If Shire plc's (LON:SHP) $30 billion unsolicited proposal to acquire Baxalta Inc. (BXLT) is accepted, the deal would be a pairing of two drug companies that manufacture treatments for rare diseases. It would also be a marriage of tax convenience. In a letter pitching the deal, Shire’s Chief Executive Officer, Flemming Ornskov, wrote that Baxalta would gain a valuable asset: a new area code. Baxalta is currently based in Deerfield, Illinois, and Shire is located in Dublin. If the deal were completed, Baxalta could assume the enviable tax status of its rival.
The U.S. has the highest corporate tax rate of any industrialized country, but Irish companies pay taxes at a rate of just 12.5 percent, according to the Tax Foundation. In contrast, American companies based in New York or New Jersey may pay up to 40 percent in federal and state corporate taxes.
As part of the bid announced Tuesday, Shire estimates that the combined Shire and Baxalta would produce $20 billion in sales by 2020. And although Ludwig Hantson, Baxalta’s chief executive officer, has repeatedly rebuffed Shire’s advances, the tax advantages are a strong incentive to say yes to a deal.
“Typically the growth rate for pharmaceutical companies is somewhere around 6 or 7 percent on an annual basis,” Milos Todorovic, a lead analyst in medical technologies at Lux Research Inc, says. “Anytime you can get a savings of 10 to 15 percent on taxes -- that's basically a ‘Bingo’ for pharmaceutical executives.”
What Is A Tax Inversion?
Regulators have recently scolded U.S. companies for striking deals known as tax inversions, transactions in which large American companies purchase foreign businesses and claim the acquiree's homeland as their new corporate headquarters--all in pursuit of more favorable corporate tax rates. Shire itself moved to Ireland from the U.K. in 2008 in search of an "optimum" tax rate.
Across all industries, at least 41 tax inversion deals were struck between the 1980s and mid-2014, according to the law firm Chadbourne & Parke LLP. Ireland was the most popular destination for these dealmakers -- 11 out of 21 firms that have completed or proposed transactions since 2010 planned to move there, while three wanted to relocate to the U.K.   
Critics have long said this practice steals jobs and tax revenue from the U.S. Often, companies keep their executive team in place and maintained operations that relied heavily on U.S. infrastructure, research funds and security.“Obviously there are public policy implications because if you're not paying taxes in the country where your headquarters are technically domiciled, you're not paying into social support systems, you're not paying for infrastructure, and you're not paying for all those things that taxes are collected for,” Lea Prevel Katsanis  , a pharmaceutical marketing expert at Concordia University, says. “ Tax inversions can be a political hot potato.”
A decade ago, several companies including Tyco International Inc. moved their corporate headquarters to Bermuda amid a wave of tax inversion deals. The Internal Revenue Service responded by making it more difficult for companies to execute tax inversions by forbidding the owners of a former U.S-based company from holding more than 80 percent of the new company and still qualifying for foreign tax status in the U.S. tax code.
Consolidation in the healthcare industry may have spurred the most recent wave of tax inversions -- “The bigger you are, the more you stand to save,” Prevel Katsanis says --  which was frenetic enough to capture the attention of 14 U.S. senators who signed a letter last year pleading with Congress to act.
Last fall, the U.S. Treasury announced further measures that it said would “significantly diminish the ability of inverted companies to escape U.S. taxation” which included limiting the ability of American companies to extract money from offshore accounts  at a lower tax rate through these deals and preventing U.S. owners from padding their reported ownership by counting assets unrelated to the company’s day-to-day business in order to meet the 80 percent requirement.
That announcement did halt several deals that were already in progress – including New York.-based Pfizer’s attempt to takeover Britain’s AstraZeneca as well as a proposed merger between Shire and AbbVie.
But opponents of the Treasury’s measures are pointing to a slew of recent deals as evidence of the need to loosen these requirements – and the proposed Shire-Baxalta deal could become their latest case study.
Foreign Buyers
In this latest trend, companies already based overseas seek out American companies that they perceive to be crippled by high taxation. Critics say in these deals, the foreign buyer may have the upper hand because the domestic company’s tax rates are so high. If successful, these bids stand to place more U.S. assets under foreign ownership – an unintended consequence of the Treasury’s  efforts to keep U.S. companies on American soil.
“The U.S. concern has overwhelmingly been with tax revenue. It's not really a matter of companies really moving with these inversions,” Michael Knoll, co-director of the Center for Tax Law and Policy at University of Pennsylvania, says. “The counter argument is that you could end up with provision meant to discourage inversions, encouraging foreign firms to buy up U.S. firms and really move them offshore.”Earlier this year, Canada-based Valeant Pharmaceuticals International Inc. bought Salix Pharmaceuticals, which was headquartered in Raleigh, N.C. A recent Senate investigation pointed to Valeant’s activities as emblematic of this newest trend which some say has replaced tax inversions.
“What we're seeing now is almost the flip of that, in overseas companies taking advantage of their tax status,” says Laura Vitez, principal biotech analyst at Thomas Reuters.
However, Reuven Aviyonah, director of the international tax program at the University of Michigan’s law school, says there are plenty of reasons why American pharmaceutical and biotech companies will likely remain in the U.S., no matter who owns them. Public funding for research and development in the U.S. is higher than in many countries, and the talent scientific talent pool is deeper, too.
Loopholes And Deterrents
Regardless of whether foreign buyers will continue to pursue American companies, others say tax inversions are here to stay -- companies will inevitably find loopholes to exploit even the latest regulations.   
“Most likely, companies will find loopholes to figure out ways to relocate and take advantage of lower taxes in other counties,” Todorovic says.
He suggests a better solution might be to simply do what these companies have pleaded for all along.
"You can always enact punishment but long-term, I think the only solution is to figure out how to somehow lower some of these corporate taxes to make them not even have to think about these deals," he says.  
Knoll at University of Pennsylvania says further efforts to restrict the ability of foreign companies to earn lower taxes on money held by American companies by funneling it through offshore accounts will lighten pressure for these deals, but also says that any regulations are unlikely to halt all such transactions.
“Companies have very sophisticated advisors looking at these issues. It’s kind of this cat-and-mouse game – the government takes a step and the parties take a step and it’s tough for the government to keep up, ” he says.
Aviyonah adds that requiring companies to physically move their headquarters overseas in order to escape domestic corporate tax rates might be another solution since these companies are hesitant to uproot their executive teams and research facilities. If the expense or hassle of doing so outweighs the benefit of a lower tax rate, more companies would remain stateside.  
Coal lobbyists and more than a dozen Republican-led states say they’re readying a legal attack on President Barack Obama’s Clean Power Plan, the final version of which he unveiled Monday. If successful, the fossil fuel supporters would not only dismantle a central piece of Obama's climate change legacy but potentially thwart future federal attempts to regulate U.S. power plant emissions.
Critics of Obama’s plan are expected to challenge the rule on multiple legal and technical grounds. But their main argument will focus on a particular section of the Clean Air Act, the decades-old law enacted to protect air quality nationwide.
Opponents claim the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency wrongly interpreted Section 111(d) in establishing limits on power sector carbon emissions -- a point the opponents say they're willing to bring before the U.S. Supreme Court.
“It’s illegal,” Mike Duncan, president of the American Coalition for Clean Coal Electricity, a top U.S. coal lobbying group, said of the Clean Power Plan. The coalition, along with the National Mining Association and other opponents, plans to sue the EPA, he said. The groups will also file a motion to stay the emissions rules to stop them from taking effect before the legal skirmishes are resolved.
Congress crafted Section 111(d) to encompass types of pollutants not included under other parts of the Clean Air Act, including Section 112 for hazardous air pollutants. Critics say the EPA is effectively regulating power plants twice because it already regulates other types of pollution under 112.
“It’s double regulation,” Duncan said. “That’s one whole area the court will look at and say, ‘EPA, you’re wrong.’”
Members of the United Mine Workers of America rally outside the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) headquarters in Washington, Oct. 7, 2014. The coal miners' union and other fossil fuel groups say the Obama administration's Clean Power Plan, finalized Monday, will jeopardize thousands of American jobs. Photo: Reuters/Jonathan Ernst
The EPA and its supporters say the climate rule has solid legal standing.
The final Clean Power Plan requires states to slash carbon pollution from electricity to 32 percent below 2005 levels by 2030. The goal is to encourage state and utilities to invest in solar, wind and other renewable energy supplies while reducing reliance on higher-polluting sources, including coal-fired power plants.
The plan arrives as the U.S. coal industry is increasingly struggling to compete with cheaper natural gas and cleaner renewable energy, and as prices for metallurgical coal plunge to 11-year lows. Alpha Natural Resources, one of the largest U.S. coal miners, on Monday became the latest company to file for bankruptcy protection amid rising debt and waning demand.
Derailing the Clean Power Plan is in large part an attempt to stave off additional losses in the beleaguered coal sector.
The EPA has estimated America’s coal production could fall to levels not seen since the 1970s once the rules take effect. U.S. coal plants would also likely account for less than one-third of total U.S. electricity generation under the rule, down from about 40 percent today.
Coal power is expected to decline as a share of total U.S. electricity production in coming decades. Declines may be steeper than shown in the above graph, which does not account for the adopt of the EPA's Clean Power Plan. Photo: U.S. Energy Information Administration
On Monday, just minutes after Obama announced his landmark climate change rule, Duncan and other coal industry supporters announced their plans to fight back. West Virginia Attorney General Patrick Morrisey told reporters that a group of at least 15 Republican state attorneys general were preparing to file a joint legal challenge.
“This rule represents the most far-reaching energy regulation in this nation’s history, drawn up by radical bureaucrats and based on an obscure, rarely used provision of the  Clean Air Act,” Morrisey said during a news conference in his home state.
If the courts decide the EPA can’t regulate power plant carbon pollution under Section 111(d), “it’s a grand slam” for the challengers, said Sean H. Donahue, a partner at Donahue and Goldberg who represents the Environmental Defense Fund in Clean Air Act litigation. “It would be a categorical win. Because the EPA couldn’t do any of this.”
Yet Donahue and other environmental legal experts say they’re confident the coal groups’ arguments will fail in court.
They say critics are wrong in claiming the EPA is regulating carbon pollution twice. “It’s not right to say that EPA cannot regulate carbon emissions under 111(d) because it regulated hazardous pollution under 112,” said Brendan Collins, a partner at Ballard Spahr LLP who represents electric utilities companies and the oil and gas industry. “I think EPA should prevail on that.”
The legal experts note the U.S. Supreme Court has tended to rule in the EPA’s favor on carbon-related regulations. In the 2011 case American Electric Power v. Connecticut, the court affirmed the agency’s authority to curb power plant carbon pollution under section 111(d). The Supreme Court separately found the EPA is authorized to protect the public from harmful pollution, in a ruling known as the “endangerment finding.”
Carbon dioxide accounts for 82 percent of total U.S. greenhouse gas emissions. Nearly one-third of that total comes from the electricity sector, according to the EPA. Photo: U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
Duncan, the coal lobbyist, said his organization and others may file a motion to stay the Clean Power Plan within a matter of weeks. But larger legal challenges to the rule could take several months. Under the law, petitioners can start filing lawsuits once the EPA publishes the rule in the Federal Register, which it might wait to do.
U.S. states aren’t required to submit individual strategies for meeting the Clean Power Plan until September 2016, and the compliance period doesn’t start until 2022.
“It’s going to play out over the next several years,” Collins said. “The Obama administration will long be out of office at the time this plan is coming into shape.”
Update 8/4/15: This story has been updated to clarify the legal arguments against the Clean Power Plan under the Clean Air Act.
U.S. stocks sank lower in afternoon trading Tuesday as shares of Apple Inc. (NASDAQ:AAPL), the world’s most valuable company, dropped to a six-month low. Five out of the 10 Standard and Poor's 500 sectors traded lower, led by a more than 1 percent decline in utilities, while materials was the biggest gainer, up nearly 1 percent.
The Dow Jones Industrial Average (INDEXDJX:.DJI) declined 24.45 points, or 0.14 percent, to 17,573.75. The S&P 500 index (INDEXSP:.INX) lost 1.52 points, or 0.07 percent, to 2,096.54. And the Nasdaq composite (INDEXNASDAQ:.IXIC) fell 7.33 points, or 0.14 percent, to 5,108.47.
Shares of Dow component Apple sank 3 percent Tuesday, extending losses after the tech giant technology giant fell below its 200-day moving average a day earlier for the first time since September 2013.
The iPhone maker hit a record high of $133 on Feb. 23, and hit a market value of nearly $775 billion. On Feb. 10, Apple became the first company ever to hit a market capitalization of more than $700 billion.
Since then, the stock has lost nearly 9 percent of its value, with a market capitalization of $675 billion -- based on the close of trading Monday -- losing $100 billion in market value since February.
Apple’s market cap lost $60 billion in just seconds July 21 after the company’s iPhone sales disappointed last quarter, erasing a value that is equivalent to the market cap of Priceline Group Inc. ($64 billion), the world's largest online travel services company, and warehouse club operator Costco Wholesale Corp. ($63 billion).
Following the company’s earnings announcement last month, FBR Capital Markets maintained its Outperform rating on Apple, but lowered its 12-month price target from $185 to $175.
Apple's stock fell 3.3 percent Tuesday to as low as $113.25 in afternoon trading. Shares of Apple have still gained 24 percent in the last 12 months.
Meanwhile, Microsoft Corporation (NASDAQ:MSFT) was the biggest gainer in the Dow, adding more than 1 percent. The gains come after the world’s largest software company got its Windows 10 launch off to a strong start, with its usage share jumping by four times in just three days, Computerworld.com reported, citing Irish metrics company StatCounter.
The increase was much larger than Microsoft’s last free upgrade of Windows 8.1 in October 2013.
Shares of Microsoft have gained nearly 8 percent in the last 12 months.
Meanwhile, Greek stocks dropped more than 4 percent at the open Tuesday in its second day of trading following a five-week shutdown. The exchange pared losses to close the session 1 percent lower after the ASE Stock Index plunged 16.2 percent a day earlier, its worst drop on record.
The Greek financial markets and banks remain in “zombie mode,” said Ilya Feygin, managing director at WallachBeth Capital, as Greek traders on the stock exchange are restricted from trading normally. “The financial system in Greece is not a real financial system right now, which is bad for the Greek economy.”
Oil prices recovered slightly Tuesday after plunging 5 percent a day earlier, hitting a six-month low on concerns over China's economic growth weighed on investors’ outlook.
West Texas Intermediate (WTI) crude, the benchmark for U.S. oil prices, added nearly 2 percent to $45.99 per gallon barrel for September delivery on the New York Mercantile Exchange. On the London ICE Futures Exchange, Brent crude, the global benchmark for oil prices, rose 1 percent to $50.04.
UPDATE: In its second quarter earnings release, Tesla Motors reduced the number of cars it expects to sell this year.
Original story begins here:
Tesla Motors Inc. (Nasdaq:TSLA) is entering an important new phase in its push to overtake Nissan Motors as the automotive history’s biggest electric-car manufacturer. If all goes according to CEO Elon Musk's plan, the first Tesla Model X sport utility vehicles will hit the streets by late September. And by next summer, the auto world will get its first peek at a prototype for the modestly priced Tesla for Everyman: the Model 3, due out in early 2018.
Musk's blueprint also includes an expansion of Tesla’s automotive and energy storage production, and hitting milestones in the construction of the company’s multibillion-dollar “Gigafactory” battery facility in Nevada.
Of course, as all these gears spin in unison, a lot could go wrong.
The company is banking on the notion that it can quickly transition from a boutique manufacturer to a mass-producer of electric cars, as it attempts to grow from the roughly 32,000 cars it sold last year to at least 500,000 by 2020. And Tesla's energy unit, too is dependent on an assumption that businesses and homeowners will rapidly adopt its power storage units.
But any number of missteps could scuttle Tesla's growth. The company, for instance, is just one automotive safety recall away from the entire operation crashing down on the heads of its exuberant shareholders.
For now, Tesla's growth engine is running smoothly.
“We think demand for the Model S will remain strong throughout 2015 in the U.S. and Europe. Additionally, [Tesla] has several significant milestones coming up over the next 18 months,” Benjamin Kallo, a new-energy research analyst at Baird, said in a research note Tuesday.
What matters most for Tesla is maintaining its sales momentum. The company has said it will deliver 55,000 cars in 2015.  It delivered 21,537 in the first six months of the year. Even if it hits its goal, the company isn’t expected to turn a profit anytime soon, and it will likely see costs increase during this next phase of development.
“Certain costs should rise as the company expands internationally as it invests in technology and infrastructure for the upcoming Model X SUV,” Standard & Poor’s equity analyst Efraim Level said in a research note last week.
Tesla sold about 22,400 cars in 2013 and about 31,600 cars last year. The company is expected to have sold about 35,500 cars in 2015 by the end of September. It expects to deliver 55,000 cars this year.  Photo: Company sales data; 3Q estimate from Baird Equity Research
Tesla’s Q2 2015 Estimates
Despite some volatility in Tesla’s stock price in recent weeks, investor confidence remains high. The stock is up 19 percent since the start of the year. The share price came close to an all-time high in July. The company's lack of profits hasn't deterred its growth-stock investors from bidding up the share price nearly 800 percent since the summer of 2012.
Tesla’s share price was up 1.73 percent in midday trading Tuesday, to $264.49, down from a 52-week high of $291.42. The company’s highest closing price, $286.04, was reached Sept. 4, 2014, after the location of the Gigafactory was announced. Tesla struck its second-highest closing price July 2 after its second-quarter sales results were released.
Tesla will announce second-quarter financial results after markets close Wednesday. Company watchers can listen to Musk talk about important developments and issues facing his company by clicking here at 5:30 p.m. EDT Wednesday.
Tesla is expected to book a wider loss of $126.1 million, or $1.02 a share, for the April-June quarter. That compared with a loss of $61.9 million, or 50 cents per share, in the same period last year, analysts polled by Thomson Reuters said.
But revenue -- the most critical number for Tesla right now -- is expected to be the highest on record, at $1.17 billion, up from $857.5 million in the year-ago quarter. The company’s revenue first broke through the billion-dollar mark in the fourth quarter of last year. Efraim Levy, an equities analyst for Standard & Poor's, expects revenue to grow 62 percent this year as Tesla sells significantly more cars this year than last.
Private owners of Tesla electric cars converge at the government-sponsored electromobility conference in Berlin, June 15, 2015. In the foreground is the Tesla Roadster that was produced from 2008 to 2012. Tesla announced in July that the next-generation Roadster would be released in 2019, which would make it Tesla’s fifth model, after the first-generation Roadster, the Model S (released in 2012), the Model X (due out next month) and the Model 3 (due out in 2018). Photo: Sean Gallup/Getty Images
Recent Tesla Motors Developments
So far this year the Palo Alto, California, company has expanded its power storage business by unveiling its Powerpack and Powerwall storage units aimed at lowering power costs. Last month, three Southern California schools were among the first major customers to sign up for Tesla stationary battery storage since April’s announcement.
Last month, Tesla introduced pricing and hardware options for the Model S. The company lowered the price of the entry-level Model S to $70,000 for a single-motor powertrain carrying with a 70 kWh battery pack that gives up about 230 miles of range. The company also added a “Ludicrous Speed” upgrade that starts at $118,000 for a 0-60 mph time of 2.8 seconds, giving the Model S the performance typically ascribed to million-dollar supercars.
In the past week, Tesla introduced an incentive program to entice loyal Model S owners to lure like-minded new customers into the Tesla fold. On Friday, Musk announced progress in a soon-to-be-released over-the-air firmware upgrade that will add automatic steering for highway driving and automatic-parking capabilities to existing Model S cars. 
Almost ready to release highway autosteer and parallel autopark software update
&mdash; Elon Musk (@elonmusk) July 31, 2015
The China Factor
Luxury carmakers have been watching China with wary eyes. On Tuesday, German automaker BMW warned that China's recent economic slowdown could affect its global sales. BMW's sales have been sliding in the world’s biggest car market, where foreign luxury automakers are having trouble luring customers to cars that cost less than the Model S.
This doesn’t bode well for Tesla’s China ambitions and could make 2015 as disappointing as last year. Tesla has reorganized in China and stepped up its marketing efforts this year, but macroeconomic pressure could negate the efforts. Wealthy Chinese buyers need to be convinced that they won’t run out of power in a six-figure electric car while stranded in the country’s legendary traffic jams. And now there are fewer of those wealthy Chinese customers.
But so far, Tesla’s Chinese challenges aren’t expected to have a measurable impact on short-term sales. The focus is on the U.S. and European markets, and with a new vehicle poised to hit showrooms, Tesla should get a sales boost that will carry it into next year.
Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. (NYSE:BABA) appointed former Goldman Sachs executive J. Michael Evans as president Tuesday. The move is effective immediately and marks the latest managerial shake-up at the Chinese e-commerce giant. It comes after Daniel Zhang, former chief operating officer, replaced Jonathan Lu as CEO in May.
Evans, 57,  has been an independent member on Alibaba Group's board since the company's initial public offering in September 2014. He will lead Alibaba Group’s international growth efforts. Evans will continue to serve as a member of the Alibaba Group board.
“Michael has been a close adviser to Alibaba Group for many years, and we greatly value his deep knowledge of our business, his experience as a proven business builder and leader globally, and his more than 20 years of experience in China,” Zhang said in a statement Tuesday.
J. Michael Evans, former chairman of Goldman Sachs Asia LLC, speaks at the Lujiazui Forum in Shanghai, May 15, 2009. Photo: Getty Images/Qilai Shen
Evans previously spent 30 years in global finance, including the last 20 years as a partner of Goldman Sachs, where he served as vice chairman, head of global growth markets and chairman of Asia before leaving the firm in 2014.
“Globalization is Alibaba Group’s most important strategy for the coming decades, and our goal is to help 10 million global businesses and serve 2 billion consumers around the world,” Zhang said.
Investors are now looking ahead to Alibaba’s latest quarterly results, due out Aug. 12, with a conference call with shareholders scheduled for 7:30 a.m. EDT. It will be the fourth public earnings report from Alibaba after Jack Ma, the company's founder and executive chairman, led the e-commerce giant to a record-breaking $25 billion initial public offering in September.
The Chinese e-commerce giant previously posted sales in the January-March quarter that beat Wall Street forecasts, as revenue leaped 45 percent, boosted by mobile transactions.
Shares of Alibaba have dropped 25 percent this year, and have lost nearly 17 percent of their value since its IPO.
A team of Malaysian investigators scouring the shoreline of Réunion Island in the Indian Ocean on Tuesday recovered several objects that could help authorities investigating the disappearance of Malaysia Airlines Flight MH370. The focus of the search for the missing Boeing 777-200 reached the French island near Madagascar, in Africa, after a part from an airplane wing was found there last week.
The team -- consisting of four people -- was searching the coastline around Saint-Andre, where the flaperon belonging to a Boeing 777 plane was found last Wednesday, a Malaysian official told Channel News Asia. Several small white objects, including a wooden item, were found in the area Tuesday, and they will now be analyzed.
"We don't know what it is, they're just pieces of interest," the official, who did not want to be named, reportedly said. "We are just walking the beach looking for anything of interest, which could help in the investigation.”
Malaysian #MH370 investigation team has just recovered several more items of interest from Réunion coastline pic.twitter.com/vC6z6J8uLK
— Jack Board (@JackBoard) August 4, 2015
Authorities are awaiting a report from France, which is leading the investigation into the flaperon’s possible link to the missing plane. Azharuddin Abdul Rahman, head of Malaysia's Department of Civil Aviation, said Tuesday that Malaysian officials along with officials from the Bureau d'Enquêtes et d'Analyses (BEA) "met with the investigating judge in a coordination meeting to discuss the inspection and verification procedures ahead of the examination scheduled for Wednesday" in Toulouse.
"Malaysia and France share the concern and anxiety of all the next-of-kin in determining the origin of the flaperon in the hope of ending the 16-month painful wait for determinative news and physical evidence of the missing aircraft flight MH370," the statement said.
A Malaysian investigator at Reunion Island urged people not to jump to conclusions until experts in Toulouse releases the report. "We don't want to raise expectations of the next-of-kin who have already gone through a lot already," the official told Channel News Asia, adding that the country's team will stay on Réunion "as long as it takes."
On Sunday, Malaysian authorities confirmed that an object found on the island that was suspected to be part of a plane door was in fact a ladder with no links to the Boeing 777. However, the flaperon -- part of a wing flap of a Boeing 777 -- has led to hopes that one of aviation's greatest mysteries may finally be solved. The search for Flight MH370, which went missing on March 8, 2014, with 239 people on board, while on its way from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing, has been ongoing for over a year and has become the costliest aviation search in history.
Malaysian/French teams combing Réunion coast. Wild weather but several items recovered #MH370 http://t.co/x5g0A6lcXo pic.twitter.com/1KbAyJwnv5
— Jack Board (@JackBoard) August 4, 2015
The search for Austin Stephanos and Perry Cohen stretched into its 12th day Tuesday off the coast of Florida as private pilots and sailors looked for any trace of the 14-year-olds who vanished on a fishing trip last month. But as concern for the boys' well-being has grown, so has the chorus of voices questioning whether they should have been out at all.
Austin and Perry grew up around the water, but critics have argued they were too young to be allowed to take their boat out unsupervised. As the case unfolds, it's become a national discussion: 14-year-olds can’t legally drive, smoke or vote. So should they be allowed to boat?
Experts said it's a tough question to answer, for a variety of reasons, not the least of which are varying state laws. They argue that how much freedom a kid should have on the water is a decision to be made case by case based on factors like local rules, weather conditions and the children themselves.
"You want your kids to develop independence skills, but part of our job as parents is to provide a perimeter of safety or a safely structured system," said Derrick Fries, who's won six world sailing titles and wrote the book "Start Sailing Right." "There isn't really any great way to train a kid for what I call 'open chaos' sorts of decisions -- that takes years of experience."
Many states, among them Arizona and California, require an adult to be on board when a minor is operating a personal watercraft or motor-powered vessel. But many do not. In Kansas, for example, adults are required only if the boater is under 12. In New Jersey, a child has to be 16. In Maine, a 16-year-old can supervise a 12-year-old, according to data compiled by the National Association of State Boating Law Administrators, a nonprofit based in Lexington, Kentucky.
Certification requirements get even more complex. About 40 states make boaters take a safety education program, but the age cutoffs for doing so differ. In Arkansas, California and Maryland, for example, there's no minimum age to take the boating safety test. But in New Hampshire, a candidate must be 16; in Colorado, 14.
In Florida, where Austin and Perry live, there's no age requirement for operating a boat -- they just have to take a safety course, which the boys did. People who use personal watercrafts, which are water scooters or jet skis, must be 14 or older.
Austin owned the 19-foot, single-engine boat they took out in July. It was his fourth boat. "These children are surrounded by water from the moment that they're born," Perry's mother, Pamela Cohen, told NBC. "Perry knew how to swim before he knew how to walk."
The duo was last seen on July 24 as they fueled up at a local marina. They were supposed to travel to a spot on the Loxahatchee River, which was as far as Perry’s parents would let them go, though they’d bragged on social media about cruising to the Bahamas. When a storm rolled in that afternoon and the boys didn’t pick up their cell phones, their families called the Coast Guard, which launched a desperate search for them but ultimately suspended it Friday with no results. Since then, the boys' parents have paid for their own search and rescue missions supported by a successful crowdfunding campaign.
Fries, the author, said he didn't let his kids operate his boats independently until they got their driver's licenses. He reasoned that the nation's waterways were less restrictive than its roads, so the variations in requirements didn't make sense. Too much can go wrong.
In 2014, 191 kids under age 13 were injured while boating, and 12 of them died. More than 400 teenagers were injured, and 34 died, according to data from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. 
Jessica Koenig, the executive director of the youth-focused sailing nonprofit Charleston Community Sailing in South Carolina, said how young is too young depends on the individual child. Her programs start training kids at age 5, but there are some exceptions for 4-year-olds. By age 8, kids can sail independently with an adult in a rescue boat "within yelling distance," she said.
Their education begins with safety. At Charleston Community Sailing, the kids spend days on land before ever touching water. Then they take a swim test, learn how to upright a boat and discuss the weather conditions before going out. "It's something a lot of parents want to teach their children," Koenig said. "Some kids really take to the water and some can be paralyzed by their own fears out there."
Please join me in supporting #FindAustinandPerry! pic.twitter.com/a5Produ8vl
&mdash; Jeff Gordon (@JeffGordonWeb) July 30, 2015
Dear Austin and Perry,&#10;even though we have searched thousands of miles, we will never lose hope #FindAustinandPerry pic.twitter.com/sLCutVbCLt
&mdash; PBSO (@PBCountySheriff) July 31, 2015
&quot;And for one amazing night, the lighthouse wasn&#39;t the brightest thing in Jupiter&quot; #FindAustinAndPerry pic.twitter.com/wjT4AjvLfd
&mdash; Ryan Novak (@ryannovak29) July 28, 2015
Mitch Brindley, the head coach of the sailing team at Old Dominion University and owner of Big Blue Sailing Academy in Norfolk, Virginia, said his philosophy is that there are two considerations when teaching young children about boating. "They have to be mature enough to understand the concepts and the actions," he said. And "they have to have the motor skills needed to do the required actions, whether it's turning the boat or balancing, stepping from one side to another."
Brindley said kids often learn faster than adults, but they don't always make the right decisions. The 12-year-olds he works with don't have the best judgment, but neither do the college students or locals in their 30s, he said. Brindley said he'd send his 10-year-old son, Pierce, out on his own locally but was unsure about a longer journey.
"Any number of adults, they've gone out and done the same exact thing that those kids do and they've never gotten in trouble. We never said, 'Hey, we shouldn't send adults out onto the water,'" he said. "The question is does a 13-year-old or 14-year-old understand the risk that's before him?"
Before Karla Gallardo and Shilpa Shah began pitching venture capital firms on Cuyana, their women’s fashion brand startup that uses a unique business model to optimize margins, they figured the idea might not resonate with techie male investors. Once they got started, their suspicions were confirmed: Most of the partners they met had no idea how women liked to shop. That’s why Gallardo and Shah made a concerted effort to pitch as many VC firms with female partners as they could find.
“We focused on them because we didn't have to spend 45 minutes out of the hour explaining what a brand is and why women shop the way they shop,” said Gallardo, CEO of San Francisco's Cuyana. “They would get it right away and we could just get into the nitty-gritty of our business model.”
Despite their targeted efforts, they only met about six female partners during the process, but their plan still worked. They received $1.7 million from Canaan Partners, one of the few firms in Silicon Valley with more than one female partner.
Lack of diversity within Silicon Valley is no secret, but what many in tech still don’t acknowledge is the lack of women and minorities involved in the venture capital part of the industry -- arguably the most important part. Just 9.7 percent of all partners at venture capital firms are women, and unsurprisingly, that is why just 8.3 percent of venture capital-funded U.S. tech startups founded in 2014 were led by women CEOs, according to Pitchbook. This is also why only 2 of the 84 Americans tech startups worth more than $1 billion are led by women, according to Cowboy Ventures.
“I can probably count on three fingers how many tech firms have one female general partner, and certainly more than two would be unusual,” said Maha Ibrahim, general partner at Canaan Partners.
The numbers are even more skewed when looked at by ethnicity. A 2014 list of the top tech venture capital firms shows just 1.54 percent of investors were African-American. When it comes to startups, just 1 percent of founders were black, a report by CB Insights said in 2010, the last time anyone bothered to track this data. As for Hispanic founders and partners in tech, there doesn’t seem to be much data at all. "I can't name five [Hispanic venture capital partners] -- I probably can't name three," said Manny Fernandez, CEO and co-founder of DreamFunded, a micro venture capital firm and angel investment platform.
Cuyana co-founders Karla Gallardo (left) and Shilpa Shah knew their startup idea probably wouldn't resonate with men. That's why they focused on pitching the idea to as many women venture capitalists as they could find.  Photo: Cuyana
Meritocracy Masquerade
Venture capital firms are responsible for funding the next-generation Googles and Facebooks, but women and minorities will never rise to the levels of Larry Page and Mark Zuckerberg without more support from the venture world.
“I don’t think you can really do diversity effectively in technology if you don’t look at the venture capital and entrepreneurial ecosystems,” said Lisa Lambert, managing director and vice president of Intel Capital. “They’re on the leading edge and have great power and influence in our industry.”
Though securing venture capital funding is a tough process for founders of all backgrounds, it’s especially difficult for women and minorities. For starters, partners rely heavily on their networks in deciding which meetings they take. That means that if you don’t already have a connection to the white and Asian male-dominated industry or one of the few universities that overwhelmingly feed into it, like Ivy League schools, breaking in can be tough.
“It’s a completely biased system that masquerades as a meritocracy, and by that I mean that if you’re an entrepreneur it makes a huge difference who you are and who you know as to whether you're going to get introduced to a top VC to hear your pitch,” said Freada Kapor Klein, a partner at Kapor Capital, one of the few truly diverse venture capital firms. “It isn't necessarily the best ideas or the best entrepreneurs who get funded, it’s those who most fit into the social network of the top-tier VCs.”
Even if you can get a meeting, many startup ideas from women and minorities go without funding because they solve problems that many venture capital partners don’t grok. “You may understand there’s a real problem and understand there’s a real solution, but because the venture capitalist has never seen or experienced that problem, they can’t really empathize,” said Jerry Nemorin, an African-American entrepreneur and CEO of the startup LendStreet. “They can’t understand the scale of the problem or the scale of the opportunity.”
Securing funding from venture capital firms can be a difficult process for even the most qualified of minority and women entrepreneurs. For example, KG Charles-Harris, who is African-American and the CEO of two-year-old artificial intelligence startup Quarrio, has been working in tech for decades and has assembled a team of accomplished employees, many of whom hail from MIT and Stanford and have experience working for companies like Apple and Cisco.
Over phone calls and online demos, Charles-Harris was able to raise $200,000 from foreign investors, but after numerous in-person meetings with American venture capitalists (only one of which included an African-American), he has not been able to raise a cent in Silicon Valley. “If it’s difficult for me to raise money here with that kind of background, that kind of team and that kind of product, how difficult is it for other people?” Charles-Harris said.
Just 8.3 percent of venture capital-funded U.S. startups founded in 2014 were led by women CEOs, according to Pitchbook. Photo: Pitchbook
'Diversity Is A Competitive Advantage'
Consumer-facing tech companies like Apple and Dropbox have been forced by public pressure to reevaluate their hiring and make efforts to be more inclusive, but because the funding aspect of the tech industry is so far removed from the public eye, venture capital firms have not faced that same pressure. The industry caught shards of it following the Ellen Pao sexual harassment case earlier this year, but otherwise, VC firms get a free pass. 
“Many people across the United States and the world know what Facebook, Google and Twitter are, but not many people are going to know what Venrock, Benchmark, Sequoia or Andreessen Horowitz are,” said Richard Kerby, vice president at Venrock. “There’s less of a microscope on us, and therefore the conversation is less steered toward us.”
Many top venture capital firms in tech, including Andreessen Horowitz, Greylock Partners, Benchmark Capital, Accel Partners, Sequoia Capital, and Kleiner, Perkins, Caufield and Byers, either did not respond to interview requests or declined to comment.
To be sure, there are signs that change is afoot, albeit slowly. Recently, the National Venture Capital Association, Dow Jones VentureSource and CrunchBase launched the 2015 Venture Census, a voluntary survey to get fresh data on the gender and demographic breakdown of the venture industry.
More importantly, a handful of firms and companies are launching initiatives that focus exclusively on funding companies led by women or minorities. Micro firm DreamFunded announced a $1 million diversity-focused fund last week, while Intel Capital, a division of Intel Corp., did the same in June with a $125 million fund. AOL started the women-focused BBG Fund in 2014 while Comcast Ventures trailblazed the way in 2011 with the $20 million Catalyst Fund, which focuses on providing seed money to minority entrepreneurs.
“When you look at the folks who are starting these companies that we focus on, typically they don’t have the same networks that are available to other entrepreneurs, and the hardest part is getting that initial amount of funding to really get the company going,” said Lo Toney, a partner at Comcast Venture’s Catalyst Fund.
For the truly opportunity-driven venture capital firms, though, it is in their best interest to bring on more diverse partners and invest in more women and minority founders. Women make up half the population, while white people are expected to lose their majority status around the year 2040. If venture capitalists continue to ignore the ideas of women and minorities, they’ll be leaving millions, if not billions, on the table.
“If venture looked like America then the businesses created would have the potential to be huge businesses that serve all of America,” said Klein, whose team of five at Kapor Capital includes two women and three persons of color. “That puts us in an almost unique category among venture capital firms, and it was very intentional. We believe that diversity is a competitive advantage.”
Federal prosecution of white-collar crime has hit a 20-year low, according to a new  report on Department of Justice data. The analysis of thousands of records by Syracuse University shows a more than 36 percent decline in such prosecutions since the middle of the Clinton administration, when the decline first began.
In the aftermath of the 2008 financial crisis, prosecutions ticked up slightly, but then dropped. Landing amid calls from  Democratic presidential candidates for more Wall Street prosecutions, the report notes that the projected number of prosecutions this year is 12 percent less than last year and 29 percent less than five years ago.
“The decline in federal white-collar crime prosecutions does not necessarily indicate there has been a decline in white-collar crime,” Syracuse researchers note. “Rather, it may reflect shifting enforcement policies by each of the administrations and the various agencies.”
Underscoring that assertion is a recent study by researchers at  George Mason University tracking the increased use of special Justice Department agreements that allow corporations -- and often their executives -- to avoid being prosecuted. Before 2003, researchers found, the Justice Department offered “almost no” such deals. The researchers report that from 2007 to 2011, 44 percent of cases were resolved through the deals -- known as deferred prosecution agreements and non-prosecution agreements.
In 2012, President Obama pledged to  “hold Wall Street accountable” for financial misdeeds related to the financial crisis. But as  financial industry donations flooded into Obama’s reelection campaign, his Justice Department officials promoted policies that critics say embodied a “too big to jail” doctrine for financial crime.
In a 2012  speech, for example, the head of the Justice Department’s criminal division, Lanny Breuer, said “collateral consequences of an indictment” such as layoffs, losses for corporate shareholders and the health of an industry factor into Obama administration decisions about whether to prosecute white-collar crime.
“In reaching every charging decision, we must take into account the effect of an indictment on innocent employees and shareholders,” said Breuer, who served as a white-collar defense attorney before and after being appointed by Obama to the Justice Department position.
Similarly, in 2013, Obama’s Attorney General, Eric Holder,  told congressional lawmakers that when it comes to banks, “I am concerned that the size of some of these institutions becomes so large that it does become difficult to prosecute them.” He said there is an “inhibiting impact” on the Obama Justice Department’s willingness to prosecute a bank when bringing a criminal charge "[would] have a negative impact on the national economy.”
Holder’s 2013 comments were foreshadowed by a  1999 memo he wrote as Deputy Attorney General during the Clinton Administration. In it, Holder recommended that prosecutors consider “[c]ollateral consequences, including disproportionate harm to shareholders and employees not proven personally culpable” before attempting to convict corporations for wrongdoing. Holder’s recommendations to career prosecutors were rewritten in 2003 by the Bush Justice Department, which viewed Holder’s memo as too friendly towards corporate cultures of misconduct.
In May, the House Financial Services Committee  subpoenaed the Justice Department about the policy. A  press release from committee chairman Jeb Hensarling, R-Texas, asserted that the Obama administration was “stonewalling” in providing more details about “whether decisions are being made to prosecute or not prosecute financial institutions based upon their size.”
Prior to serving in the Obama Justice Department, both  Breuer and  Holder worked at white-collar defense firm Covington & Burling. Both of them went back to work for the firm again immediately after leaving their government posts. Holder has defended the administration’s record of not prosecuting any individual financial executive involved in the financial crisis,  saying the Obama administration’s prosecution decisions have changed the culture of banking.
In recent years, budget cuts at the Justice Department may also have played a role in reducing prosecutions of white-collar crime.
According to the department’s budget statements, the division that oversees white-collar crime had 1,566 employees in 2011, but by 2015, the division had just 1,325 -- a loss of over 15 percent. Cuts have also occurred for travel, consultants and overtime -- all crucial for the department to be able to navigate often-complex white-collar litigation. Additionally, governmentwide budget cuts known as sequestration led Holder to shift  $150 million away from other Justice Department functions toward the Bureau of Prisons.
Greece said on Tuesday that it expects to have a finalized bailout deal with its international creditors by Aug. 18, ending months of uncertainty that have raised worries of a Greek default and its exit from the eurozone.
Government spokeswoman Olga Gerovasili said that the accord between Greece and its creditors would start being drafted on Wednesday. The Athens Stock Exchange rallied after the news, reaching a high of about 660 points from opening levels of 637. Tuesday’s rally came after a nosedive of 23 percent Monday, when the stock market reopened after a five-week hiatus.
"The first phase of negotiations ends today and the second phase starts, which really contains the details of drafting (the deal)," Gerovasili told Skai TV station, as cited by Reuters. "If the terms of the (EU) summit are met, I think that we will have a deal by the 18th of this month," she added.
Greece reached a deal with its creditors -- the International Monetary Fund (IMF), the European Central Bank (ECB) and the European Commission -- last month to receive a third round of critically needed bailout funds, which capped months of increasing acrimony between the various parties.
However, infighting in the ruling Syriza party has led to worries over the country’s financial future, after a revolt from within the leftist party over agreeing to the bailout and the economic reforms that creditors are demanding. Syriza originally came to power in January, promising to stand against austerity measures that they claimed were suffocating Greece’s economy.
In late July, the IMF said that it would not agree to a third Greek bailout, and IMF chief Christine Lagarde previously said that no further deals would be possible without substantial debt relief to Greece, a prospect that major creditor Germany has consistently shot down.
Greece and the other parties face a hard deadline of Aug. 20 for a deal that will provide Greece with desperately needed capital. The country’s economy went into a tailspin after the ECB capped its finances to Greece, forcing the nation's central bank to close.
European aircraft manufacturer Airbus Group last month filed a patent for a hypersonic jet that could travel at several times the speed of sound. In the application, approved by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO), the technology is described as an “ultra-rapid air vehicle and related method of aerial locomotion.”
The proposed jet is expected to reach speeds as high as Mach 4.5, which is about four-and-a-half times the speed of sound. If accomplished, such a speed would allow the aircraft to fly between London and New York in only one hour, three times faster than the Concorde, a retired supersonic passenger jet that was active between 1976 and 2003, Business Insider reported.
Airbus also expects the new hypersonic jet to travel between Paris and San Francisco, or Tokyo and Los Angeles, in only three hours. In comparison, a conventional passenger jet would take more than 10 hours to complete similar trips.
The proposed jet is expected to reach speeds as high as Mach 4.5, about four and a half times faster than the speed of sound. Photo: U.S. Patent and Trademark Office
The jet is “an air vehicle including a fuselage, a gothic delta wing positioned either side of the fuselage, and a system of motors able to propel the air vehicle,” the patent described, according to Business Insider. The aircraft is powered by three different types of engines that help it cruise at a speed of more than 3,000 mph.
The jet, which would climb vertically like the Space Shuttle after lifting off, would use two turbojets to get off the ground, while a rocket motor mounted in the rear would help it reach an altitude of more than 100,000 feet.
After the rocket motor shuts down at cruising altitude, a pair of wing-mounted ramjets would come into action and help the plane reach its top speed of Mach 4.5, Airbus said, adding that the jet would accommodate 20 passengers, and could be used for both civilian and military purposes.
Airbus has also proposed a variant of the jet, which would be armed with high-power electromagnetic pulse weapons, according to Business Insider.
The U.S. Air Force and DARPA, the research arm of the Pentagon, are also reportedly working on developing a new hypersonic jet by 2023 that could fly at five times the speed of sound.
China has strengthened its stance against short-selling shares and major brokerages suspended businesses involved in the practice following massive losses in the country’s stock markets. The move was followed by gains on local bourses.
China’s markets have lost almost 30 percent of their value after peaking in June, in a series of volatile plunges that have raised fears of a larger collapse. In response, the country’s exchanges and regulators have come down hard on market manipulators even as the Communist Party and the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) have worked to implement a wide range of reforms.
Short-selling is a term used to describe a practice of selling shares that are not owned at the time by the seller. Short-selling provides liquidity to operators in exchange for higher risk. 
The country’s two biggest stock exchanges, the Shanghai Composite Index and the Shenzhen Component Index, said that investors who borrow shares must now wait one day to pay back the loans, preventing them from selling and buying back stocks on the same day, a practice that could “increase abnormal fluctuations in stock prices and affect market stability,” the Shenzhen stock exchange said, according to Bloomberg. China had already previously banned traders from buying and then selling shares on the same day.
The markets regained lost ground on Tuesday after a major loss last Monday of about 8.5 percent, with Shanghai closing up 3.7 percent at about 3,750 points, and the Shenzhen index gaining 4.5 percent to end the day at 12,700.
Major brokerages Citic Securities, Huatai Securities and Great Wall Securities also said they would temporarily suspend their short-selling services.
The CSRC has placed “malicious” short-sellers in its sights, and is also investigating the use of automated trading strategies that exploit market volatility.
"This is apparently aimed at increasing the cost of shorting and easing selling pressure on the market," Samuel Chien, a partner of Shanghai-based hedge fund manager BoomTrend Investment Management Co, told Reuters.
Last Monday’s fall came after a three-week rally stimulated by major government efforts to inject liquidity and restore stability to the market. However, the persistent volatility has raised concerns about the government’s abilities to control malicious trading.
Fund managers have reportedly claimed that the campaign against short-selling has denied investors ways to hedge their share holdings, creating an incentive to sell those stocks. Traders also complained that the rule left them vulnerable to any market-distorting news that came before trading opened the next day.
China’s stock markets have also lost a significant amount of liquidity in recent days due to the crackdown, leading to the volume of shares being traded in China being worth $72 billion lower than that of trades on U.S. exchanges, Bloomberg reported.
LONDON (Reuters) - Oil prices steadied at $50 a barrel after a 5 percent drop and badly bruised commodity and Chinese markets were calmer generally on Tuesday, as investors attempted to shake off the recent turbulence.
European stocks reversed some of the previous day's gains and safe-haven German government bonds were in demand as the region opened, but there was some respite for commodities and their related currency and share markets.
Brent oil, which has slumped more than 20 percent over the last month, was up almost 1 percent. Copper, seen as a bellwether of global growth, nudged off a six-year low and Chinese stocks bounced 3 percent.
The dollar also helped relieve the pressure, with it pegged back by another bout of weak U.S. data on Monday. Raw material reliant Canadian and Australian dollars both got lifts, alongside Russia's rouble and other emerging FX.
The Aussie dollar was by far the biggest mover. It rose 1.25 percent to an almost two-week high of $0.7375 after a major change in tone from its central bank that suggested it was now more satisfied with the currency level.
"You have had a key shift from the RBA that they don't need to intervene as strongly, so that has triggered a considerable Aussie bounce," said John Hardy, head of FX strategy at Saxo Bank.
"And the (U.S.) dollar view is just flat and we are just waiting for payrolls on Friday. We have had a relatively hawkish set-up from Yellen and co (that interest rates may go up next month) but the rates market just doesn't believe it."
The dollar edged down about 0.1 percent on the day against its Japanese counterpart to 123.90 yen, while the euro was slightly higher at $1.0958.
European stock markets lost ground, with French bank Credit Agricole and German carmaker BMW among the worst performers after reporting disappointing results and as the recent drop in oil prices weighed on energy stocks.
Shares in Greece, which had slumped 16 percent on Monday after re-opening following a five-week shutdown, also added to weak mood as they fell a further 4 percent.
DATA DEPENDENT
MSCI's broadest index of Asia-Pacific shares outside Japan had turned positive and extended gains late in the session as China shares rose while Japan's Nikkei stock index kept losses to 0.14 percent.
The Shanghai Composite Index ended more than 3.5 percent higher and the CSI300 index added 3.1 percent in a third day of gains.
Beijing has taken a raft of steps to support Chinese share markets after they lost more than 30 percent of their value since peaking in June, but investors are still cautious.
"The market is still very volatile ... investors are likely to be quiet and see what the next step of the government will be," said Patrick Yiu, a director of CASH Asset Management in Hong Kong.
"The overall market momentum is not likely to pick up anytime soon and the economy in China is still very weak," Yiu said.
Fears of disinflation stemming from the rout in oil prices has led investors to pare bets that the U.S. Fed's long-awaited interest rate hike will come as early as September.
There is durable goods and factory data out later but Friday's employment data is shaping up to be key for markets. They are expected to show the U.S. economy created 225,000 new jobs in July, according to economists polled by Reuters. The unemployment rate is expected to hold steady at 5.3 percent.
"If we get some certainty about the strength of the U.S. economy and the likelihood of policy normalization by the Fed, and if a rate hike seems justifiable, that is positive for sentiment... because a lot of people have been bracing for this," said Stefan Worrall, director of cash equities at Credit Suisse.
U.S. President Barack Obama might have gained Congress' hard-won support to speed up the passage of the proposed Trans-Pacific Partnership, but the biggest impediment to the deal among its 12 member-nations is its sheer size. After talks between representatives broke down in Hawaii on Friday, the window for immediate passage of the largest multinational trade deal in history is closing fast.
“What happened in Hawaii was that key countries like Canada, which doesn’t want to liberalize its dairy trade, and Japan, which has its own issues on certain agricultural markets, aren’t ready to come to an agreement that locks them into a deal,” said Jagdish Bhagwati, an economics professor at Columbia University who is an outspoken proponent of free trade.
The massive size and scope of the deal has made TPP ratification difficult. Talks began a decade ago, but President Barack Obama has made closing the agreement a capstone goal of his administration -- but time is running out. Talks are scheduled to reconvene in November, which doesn’t give the U.S. Congress much time to give the up-or-down vote before heading home for the holidays and sharpening their sticks for the 2015 presidential race. Obama won fast-track authority back in May, which prevents Congress from tinkering what whatever TPP deal is made. 
Canada and Japan are important players in the 12-nation trade pact that would put nearly 40 percent of global trade under a massive set of rules aimed at spurring growth and closer trade ties between the Asia Pacific region and Western Hemisphere countries. But with the U.S. presidential elections season fast approaching, and Canada holding general elections in October, talks could wind up being delayed for a year if a deal isn’t worked out within weeks.
Talks fell apart Friday over disagreements in five key areas: ongoing differences between Japan and the U.S. over the farming and automotive sectors; Australia’s desire for more access to the protected  U.S. sugar market; New Zealand’s demand for better access to Canada and U.S. dairy markets; Mexico’s dispute over a Japanese demand to integrate Japanese car companies’ massive Asian auto parts supply network into the TPP deal; and a disagreement Australia and others have over U.S. pharmaceutical patents.
Out of the 12 member states, half of the member states have issues that still need to be worked out: the U.S., Canada, Japan, Australia, New Zealand and Mexico.
The TPP would link a dozen Pacific Rim countries (shaded in orange) under the largest-ever multinational trade pact.  Photo: Hanna Sender/IBTimes
Talks between the U.S. and Japan were tainted, too, by a set of documents released Friday by the transparency group WikiLeaks that revealed secret memos detailing U.S. spying on Japanese firms and lawmakers. The revelations included details about trade negotiations and climate strategy.
Bhagwati says its likely Canada will hold back on any commitment until after its October 19 general elections, but some say ratification has to come sooner than that.
"There is a finite window, I think, where if you can't complete the deal in that time, it becomes more difficult for the U.S. and others," New Zealand Prime Minister John Key said Monday at a press conference.
TPP advocates are concerned that if representatives don’t meet again before their scheduled November session – as early as later this month – then the talks will be scuppered by the U.S. presidential race that will pick up steam toward the Republican primaries that begin in February.
Democrat hopeful Hillary Clinton has already distanced herself from TPP, which is unpopular among the left of her party that views freed trade deals as favoring corporations while marching over labor and environmental rights. And while pro-business Republicans support TPP, many conservatives view multilateral trade deals as U.S. job killers.
President Barack Obama's final plan to curb carbon emissions from U.S. power plants is a critical step in the administration's strategy for fighting climate change. But the Clean Power Plan, to be unveiled Monday, will also boost momentum for a global climate change treaty and pressure other nations to make aggressive emissions cuts.
The final version of the plan will “set a powerful example for the rest of the world,” Lord Nicholas Stern, a former British Treasury official and prominent climate change economist, said in a statement Monday. Obama’s announcement “will reinforce the credibility of the commitment by the United States to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions as a new international agreement on climate change is being finalized.”
The U.S. and nearly 200 nations involved in United Nations-led climate negotiations have agreed to forge a pact to slash emissions. Each country is expected to submit an individual action plan, which will form the backbone of the broader agreement at the annual conference in Paris this December.
Obama, who has made fighting climate change a priority in his second term, is vowing to play a leadership role in the upcoming talks. The U.S. has pledged to curb its overall greenhouse gas emissions to 28 percent below 2005 levels by 2025. The Clean Power Plan is central to reaching that target, the White House says.
The Clean Power Plan is the first federal effort to limit carbon pollution from the electricity sector, the biggest single source of U.S. greenhouse gas emissions. Photo: U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
U.S. environmental leaders and a group of major American businesses are praising the final version of the plan, which sets more stringent targets than those in an initial proposal in June 2014.
Under the rules, states are required to slash carbon pollution from electricity to 32 percent below 2005 levels by 2030 -- a 9 percent increase over the initial target. The goal is to encourage state and utility investments in solar, wind and other renewable power sources while shifting spending away from dirtier power sources, including coal and fuel oil.
“The Clean Power Plan is the most significant single action any president has ever taken to tackle the most serious threat to the health of our families: the climate crisis,” said Michael Brune, executive director of the Sierra Club, a major environmental organization and prominent supporter of the climate rule.
Last week, more than 350 companies spoke out to express support for the policy. A coalition led by Ceres, an investor advocacy group, sent letters to 29 governors urging the states to cooperate in a timely manner with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, the plan’s enforcer.
“Moving to more efficient and renewable energy is one major step toward ensuring we have long-term economic viability,” said Letitia Webster, senior director of global sustainability for VF Corp., a major apparel and footwear company whose brands include The North Face, Timberland and Wrangler jeans.
Webster said the Greensboro, North Carolina, company is on track to meet its goal of cutting carbon emissions to 5 percent below 2009 levels by 2015. Many of its facilities are equipped with rooftop solar panels or energy-efficient technologies, enabling VF Corp. to slash climate change pollution while growing the business 15 percent over the same time period, she said by phone.
Yet most of the firm’s offices and retail stores are in shared buildings without clean energy supplies, and those rely on electricity delivered by the utility grid. “We need the governors and states to give us more choices in the marketplace, so we can choose the energy we want to reduce our energy and meet the expectations of our brands and customers,” Webster said. “The Clean Power Plan is one step in that direction.”
The Obama administration's Clean Power Plan will reduce global warming emissions, which climate scientists say are making extreme weather and severe storms more frequent and intense. Photo: White House
Fossil fuel industry groups and some Republican policymakers were quick to bash the Obama administration’s final plan. Critics say it will drive up electricity costs for U.S. households and businesses by forcing the electricity sector to ditch cheap, reliable coal-fired power plants and instead spend billions to build new renewable energy plants.
The EPA has estimated the rule will result in annual costs of about $8.4 billion by 2030, although total benefits -- including improved public health -- would reach between $34 billion and $54 billion by then.
“This rule fails across the board, but most troubling is that it fails the millions of families and businesses who rely on affordable electricity to help them keep food on the table and the lights on,” said Mike Duncan, president and CEO of the American Coalition for Clean Coal Electricity.
Six governors, including five Republicans and one Democrat, have said they will not comply with the Clean Power Plan. Under the rules, each state is required to give the EPA an individual strategy for complying with state-specific emissions-reduction targets.
Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, who represents coal-rich Kentucky, is spearheading the opposition against the rules. In a March op-ed piece, he called the rules “unfair” and “probably illegal,” and urged states to “hold back on the costly process of complying.”
Opponents of the Obama administration’s climate change policies blame the White House for the recent suffering in the U.S. coal industry. Several major companies – including most recently Alpha Natural Resources -- are seeking bankruptcy protection as coal prices plunge and competition intensifies from natural gas, solar and wind power.
About 200 out of 523 coal plants have shut down over the past five years as operators find it easier to switch to cleaner-burning natural gas or shutter aging coal facilities rather than adhere to stringent air pollution standards, the Sierra Club’s Beyond Coal campaign found.

“Once the EPA finalizes this regulation, West Virginia will go to court, and we will challenge it,” Patrick Morrisey, the attorney general of West Virginia, told a local radio station last week.
Some supporters of the Clean Power Plan, while praising the rules, still expressed frustration with changes made in the final version. Regulations will now begin in 2022, instead of an earlier compliance date of 2020.
“We saw no need to delay the start of compliance by two years,” said Malcom Woolf, senior vice president for policy and government affairs at Advanced Energy Economy. He added that the group is “disappointed that there is no credit for action taken between now and 2020, and that not all energy efficiency is eligible for credit between 2020 and 2022. These are missed opportunities in the short run.”
Mary Boeve, executive director of 350.org, a major grassroots environmental organization, said the Clean Power Plan is “significant but not enough” to address the threats of climate change. She called on Obama to reject the proposed Canada-to-Texas Keystone XL pipeline and reverse his position on allowing oil-and-gas drilling in the U.S. Arctic Ocean. “Cutting coal emissions is low-hanging fruit. The next challenge will be standing up to Big Oil," she said in a statement.”
8/3/15 Correction: An earlier version of this story incorrectly identfied Letitia Webster of VF Corp. and the company's headquarters. This story has been updated to reflect the correct information.
The Dow Jones Industrial Average dipped Monday, weighed down by energy stocks as benchmark oil prices hit their lowest prices for the year on high global supplies. Earnings season took a breather, with little excitement created by companies including Clorox Co. and Tyson Foods Inc. that reported quarterly financial results Monday morning.
The Dow Jones Industrial Average (INDEXDJX:.DJI) declined 81.58 points, or 0.46 percent, to 17,608.28 as of midday trading on Monday. The S&P 500 index (INDEXSP:.INX) fell 3.16 points, or 0.15 percent, to 2,100.69. The Nasdaq composite (INDEXNASDAQ:.IXIC) was essentially flat, down a slight 0.47 points, or 0.01 percent, 5,127.96
Exxon Mobil Corporation (NYSE:XOM), the world's largest oil and gas company, was down 1.12 percent to $78.16 in midday trading Monday after shedding more than 4 percent on Friday. Last week, the company reported lower profits for the April-June quarter due to falling oil prices. Chevron Corporation (NYSE:CVX), the world’s No. 2 oil and gas company, shed 2.58 percent to $86.20 after a similar plunge Friday. Chevron posted its worst quarterly profit in more than a decade, while Exxon’s earnings were the lowest since 2009.
The price of Brent crude, the global benchmark, was down nearly 3 percent on Monday to $50.67 per barrel by Monday morning, its lowest daily drop since January. Brent hit its lowest weekly price for the year last week. West Texas Intermediate, the other major oil price indicator for U.S. crude, fell 1.57 percent to $46.38.
Oil declined after the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries reported Friday that its July inventory hit a record high. On Monday, keystone OPEC member Saudi Arabia said it would soon increase its price for oil by about $1 a barrel, according to Reuters. The move is a hint that the country, with 15 percent of the world’s proven reserves, is comfortable enough with its market share to begin raising prices.
U.S. markets were somewhat cautious after the Institute of Purchasing Managers' manufacturing index data released Monday showed a decline to 52.7 last month, from 53.5, indicating slower activity in U.S. factories. Though the tick down was slight, it surprised economists who expected the number to remain unchanged.
Factory activity has been hammered by a strong dollar, which has curbed export activity as the price of U.S. goods abroad increase.
Clorox Co. (NYSE:CLX) shares were up 2.22 percent to $114.45 after the Oakland, California, maker of consumer and professional products reported on Monday higher than expected fiscal fourth-quarter profits, beating analysts’ expectations.
Tyson Foods Inc. (NYSE:TSN) shares plummeted nearly 10 percent Monday after the country’s largest poultry producer missed its third-quarter earnings expectations on weak beef sales. The Springdale, Arkansas, meat company also cut its profit forecast for the year.
Walt Disney Co. (NYSE:DIS) will announce its fiscal third-quarter results after markets close on Tueday, as will stock market newcomer Etsy Inc. (Nasdaq:ETSY).
The Russian composer Igor Stravinsky once said that lesser artists borrow, and great artists steal. Stravinsky, who died in 1971, could not be reached for comment on Pink Floyd guitarist David Gilmour’s decision to put French railway company SNCF’s "audio logo" -- a fancy term for jingle -- at the heart of his new single, “Rattle That Lock.”
“Every time I heard [the melody] it would make me want to start dancing,” Gilmour said on a video posted on his website.
The four-note pattern, created more than a decade ago by the French agency Sixième Son, is widely known in France -- the agency says 90 percent of the country’s residents recognize it when they hear it, and 81 percent of them are strongly attached to it -- and Gilmour decided he wanted to do something with it during a recent trip to visit friends in Aix-en-Provence.
“I heard it, as you often do, so I then turned on my iPhone, held my iPhone up nearer the speaker, and waited for the next announcement. I took that sample, and that’s what I’ve used on this track,” Gilmour said in a video explaining the song.
As someone who’s spent a long time fighting companies like Pandora over fair compensation for music, Gilmour wasn’t going to simply use the recording without permission. Sixième Son is listed as a co-author of “Rattle That Lock,” and will receive a portion of any royalties the song generates.
Gilmour may be the first artist to get permission to use SNCF’s audio logo in a song, but he’s not the first to ask. According to Sixième Son’s founder, Michel Boumendil, more than a dozen artists have requested permission to use the song over the years, but Gilmour’s request was the first they’d said yes to; while SNCF does not own any of the copyrights associated with the composition, the company does have exclusive rights to determine how it is used.
“The song is a kind of tribute to our jingle,” Christophe Fanichet, SNCF’s head of communications and information, told the Wall Street Journal. “We are touched that it has inspired such a musician.”
Though Gilmour’s move seems to have grown out of a serendipitous moment, the release of “Rattle That Lock” comes during a period of unprecedented artist interest in working with brands. According to the International Federation of Phonographic Industries, revenue from so-called “sync” deals, in which artists’ music is used in film and TV, advertisements or other brand partnerships, rose more than 8 percent in 2014, and now accounts for more than 2 percent of the world’s music revenues. And while artists have been sampling corporate audio and advertisements for decades, this may be the first time a partnership of this kind has ever been forged.
“Rattle That Lock” is scheduled for a September release.
Residents of France's Reunion Island flooded investigators with debris this weekend in hopes that it might be connected to missing Malaysia Airlines Flight 370. As the analysis of a Boeing 777 wing found there last week continued Monday, the islanders turned over old shoes, scrap metal, tea kettles, a wallet and a Frisbee, according to various media reports. Authorities encouraged locals' efforts to help in the search but reminded them to be somewhat skeptical.
Ever since the wing fragment was uncovered there Wednesday, "people are more vigilant," said Jean-Yves Sambimanan, the spokesman for the town of Saint-André. The discovery led professional and amateur searchers alike to scour the Indian Ocean island for items that could be linked to MH370 and its 239 passengers and crew, which disappeared without a trace on a flight from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing on March 8, 2014.
"There is a sort of treasure hunt mentality that is taking hold, and people are calling us for everything,” an unnamed source close to the investigation told Agence France-Presse.
A man fishes near rusted debris that has washed onto the Jamaique beach in Saint-Denis on Reunion Island Monday. Photo: Reuters
French gendarmes and police inspect a large piece of plane debris on Reunion Island last week. Photo: Reuters
One example of this came Sunday, when a man gave authorities what he thought was a door but turned out to be part of a generic ladder, International Business Times previously reported. Authorities must log the possible evidence but were growing weary. "They are going to think any metallic object they find on the beach is from Flight MH370, but there are objects all along the coast," Sambimanan said. "The ocean continually throws them up.”
While police handled the influx of debris and investigators tested it, scientists were also looking for signs linking the found wing to MH370. Australian ecologists told Reuters that examining the age and size of the barnacles on its surface could give way to an answer about whether the wing belonged to MH370.
"Barnacle shells ... can tell us valuable information about the water conditions under which they were formed," said Ryan Pearson, a graduate student at Australia's Griffith University.
Nokia is selling its mapping service “Here” for 2.8 billion euros ($3.07 billion) to a consortium of German car makers, including BMW, Audi and Daimler, the company announced Monday. The sale is expected to be concluded in the first quarter of 2016.
Announcing the sale, the Finnish telecom major said in a statement that the deal will bring in a net amount of 2.5 billion euros. The three automobile companies said in a separate statement that they will each hold an equal stake in Here, which was bought by Nokia from Chicago-based Navteq for $8.1 billion in 2008.
“With this step we complete the latest stage of Nokia's transformation,” Rajeev Suri, president and CEO of Nokia, said in a statement, adding that the move “is the best path forward for our shareholders, as well as the customers and employees of HERE.”
Berlin-based “Here” -- a direct competitor to Google Maps -- is a provider of mapping services with data on nearly 200 countries. Other than the automotive industry, “Here” also serves large technology enterprises and Internet companies, including Microsoft, Samsung and SAP, according to Nokia.
The future of “Here” was in limbo since Microsoft bought Nokia’s devices and services business for $7.2 billion last year. In April, Nokia announced that it was reviewing “strategic options” for “Here.”
“The acquisition is intended to secure the long-term availability of Here's products and services as an open, independent and value-creating platform for cloud-based maps and other mobility services accessible to all customers from the automotive industry and other sectors,” BMW, Audi and Daimler said, in a joint statement, according to the Wall Street Journal.
The New York Times reported in May that Uber, best known for its ride-sharing mobile application, had made a $3 billion offer to buy Nokia’s “Here.”
Nokia is also expected to complete a $16.6 billion deal to buy Alcatel-Lucent by the first half of next year.
ATHENS (Reuters) - Greece's economic sentiment hit its lowest level in almost three years in July, hurt by banking restrictions and political uncertainty in the country, a monthly report by the IOBE think tank showed on Monday.
The index, which measures expectations in industry, services, retail, and construction along with consumer confidence, fell to 81.3 points last month from 90.7 in June, its lowest level since Oct. 2012, according to the report.
The report said that this was the result of unfavorable economic developments following a July 5 referendum Greece held on a cash-for-reform deal, the capital controls the country imposed to avert a collapse of its banks and a wide political uncertainty.
The Athens Stock Exchange plunged by 23 percent after opening on Monday as trading resumed after a five-week closure. As of 4:52 a.m. EDT, the index was down about 20 percent, having clawed back some gains.
The country’s main lenders, National Bank and Piraeus Bank, fell by 30 percent, the maximum allowed by daily volatility limits. Alpha Bank and Eurobank also fell by almost 30 percent. The country’s bourse was shut five weeks ago as part of a punishing set of capital controls that Athens imposed to tamp down on financial panic in the country. 
Constantine Botopoulos, head of the Greek capital markets commission, said, on Greek radio: "Naturally, pressure is expected, markets will not fail to comment on such an extensive shutdown," according to the BBC. "But we must not get carried away. We must wait until the end of the week to see how the reopening will begin to be dealt with more coolly."
Greece reached a deal with its international creditors for a third bailout last month, but infighting in the ruling Syriza party has led to uncertainty over the country’s future. The European Commission predicted this year that Greece would slide back into a recession that would see its economy contract by 2 percent to 4 percent.
Last week, the International Monetary Fund, one of Greece’s main creditors, said that it could not afford to fund a third Greek bailout, citing the country’s financial mismanagement and astronomical debt. A previous IMF paper had admitted that Greece’s debt was “highly unsustainable.”
Greece is negotiating for its third bailout in five years, projected to be around $94 billion. Its financial record and spiraling debt mean that it lacks access to capital markets, leaving it reliant on emergency funding to maintain liquidity.
“The situation in Greek equity markets will have to get a lot worse before it gets better,” Luca Paolini, Pictet Asset Management’s chief strategist in London, told Bloomberg. “There are still critical risks to be resolved.”
The location of the debris found on the island of Réunion in the Indian Ocean “is consistent with drift analysis determined by experts,” Malaysia's Transport Minister Liow Tiong Lai said Monday. His comments came at a press conference in Selangor, where he spoke about the latest developments in the investigation into Malaysia Airlines Flight MH370's disappearance.
The debris found on Sunday include "some sort of aluminum frame" and "broken pieces of material from a plane,” Liow reportedly said, adding that their origins are being investigated for links to the Boeing 777-200, which went missing on March 8, 2014, with 239 people on board while on its way from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing.
Liow reportedly said that the analysis of the flaperon, which was found last week, and the debris collected Sunday, will begin Wednesday in line with set procedures and guidelines. And if the debris is confirmed to be from Flight MH370, a tripartite meeting will have to be held immediately, Liow said, according to Channel News Asia.
On Sunday, Malaysian authorities confirmed that an object found on the island that was suspected to be part of a plane door was in fact a generic ladder with no links to the Boeing 777. An object found Wednesday was confirmed to be part of a wing flap of a Boeing 777, giving rise to hopes that one of aviation's greatest mysteries may finally be solved. 
However, on Monday, Liow cautioned against unnecessary speculation over the source of the debris.
Meanwhile, French and Malaysian aviation experts are scheduled to meet police and magistrates in Paris on Monday to coordinate their work in the investigation into the disappearance of Flight MH370. The flaperon is being analyzed at a military laboratory in the French city of Toulouse, which specialises in plane crash investigations. 
U.S. aircraft manufacturer Boeing Co will also reportedly dispatch a "technical" team to join the investigation into the flaperon.
Tujia.com, China's vacation rental company similar to San Francisco-based Airbnb Inc., raised $300 million for global expansion, the company announced Monday. All-Stars Investment Ltd., which previously invested in Chinese mobile maker Xiaomi Corp. and Uber's biggest Chinese rival -- the taxi hailing app Didi Kuaidi Joint Co. -- led the latest round of funding, Bloomberg reported, citing a statement from the startup.
According to the company, which formally launched in December 2011, the fundraising valued it at more than $1 billion. In comparison, Airbnb, which has operations worldwide, is valued at $20 billion. However, Tujia did not disclose the size of the stake the investors bought, Reuters reported.
As part of its expansion plans, Tujia is planning to list nearly 500,000 properties in destinations popular with Chinese travelers, an increase from the current 300,000, Melissa Yang, the company's co-founder and chief technology officer, told Bloomberg. Its target markets include Thailand, Indonesia, South Korea, Taiwan and Hong Kong. Tujia -- meaning "home on a journey" -- also links vacationers with homeowners in Paris and Los Angeles.
“We are speeding up our expansion to meet the demands of Chinese tourists,” Yang told Bloomberg, adding: “Southeast Asia is a destination favored by Chinese tourists and so that’s an area of focus for us.”
The company’s expansion comes despite the Chinese economy recording its slowest growth in a quarter century. However, Yang estimates that the slowdown could encourage homeowners in the country to earn further income by listing their properties on the company's site. Tujia will also add a new service that will connect users directly with homeowners, Yang added. In the past, a majority of the company's listings were managed by itself or third-party companies, instead of homeowners. 
Other investors of the latest funding round included Tujia's existing shareholders and serviced-residence business Ascott Ltd., which is owned by Singapore's CapitaLand Ltd. Ascott will invest $50 million as well as form a $40 million joint venture with Tujia to begin a serviced apartment business in China, Reuters reported, citing CapitaLand's statement. CapitaLand, Southeast Asia's largest property developer, currently has 14,000 units in China and aims to add another 6,000 units by 2020 in the country.
Tujia has seen three rounds of financing so far. It is backed by investors like HomeAway Inc., Ctrip.com International Ltd., LightSpeed Venture Partners and GGV Capital. 
Tujia has so far not encountered regulatory troubles, unlike its American counterpart, which has come under the radar of New York enforcement agencies for not paying hotel occupancy taxes. The Chinese startup gathers the money and pays hotel levies as well as taxes on the rental income on behalf of property owners, Bloomberg reported. It also offers ancillary services such as property management, inspections of listings and cleanups after guests leave, differentiating itself from the highly valued home rental site Airbnb.
HSBC Holdings Plc said Monday that it will sell its Brazilian unit to Banco Bradesco, one of the country’s leading private-sector banks, for $5.2 billion. The all-cash deal was announced along with HSBC's half-yearly earnings, which showed a 10 percent jump in profits.
HSBC, which is also reportedly close to ending its presence in Turkey, said that it will sell off its “entire business in Brazil” on Friday. Banco Bradesco is expected to make public the acquisition of HSBC Bank Brasil SA Banco Múltiplo, as the unit is formally known, on Monday, Reuters reported.
“The purchase price is subject to adjustments to reflect the net asset value of the businesses at completion. The transaction is subject to regulatory approval and is expected to complete by Q2 2016,” HSBC said, in a statement.
According to the bank, its pretax profit rose 10 percent to $13.6 billion from $12.3 billion a year earlier, even as the company plans to explore ways to increase earnings. However, second-quarter net profit fell nearly 4 percent to $4.36 billion from $4.54 billion during the same period last year.
Analysts reportedly said that HSBC’s move to exit Brazil comes as large local banks outperform smaller rivals amid weakening economic outlook. Sluggish asset growth also reportedly prevented HSBC Brazil from gaining market share.
Recent reports said that HSBC was set to sell its Turkish business to Dutch lender ING Group for nearly $750 million, after the unit lost $64 million in 2014.
The European banking giant also reportedly announced last month that it would cut at least 22,000 jobs in an effort to cut costs by $5 billion over the next two years.
HONG KONG (Reuters) - An index of Asian shares outside Japan fell close to this year's lows thanks to a deepening selloff in commodities and concerns over slowing growth in China, while the dollar held its ground against a basket of currencies.
China's factory activity shrank more than initially estimated in July, contracting by the most in two years as new orders fell, according to a private survey that dashed hopes that the economy may be steadying.
"We believe the stock market panic in early July chilled economic activity, which is what the manufacturing PMIs picked up," ING economist Tim Condon said in a research note ahead of the Caixin PMI release.
MSCI's broadest index of Asia-Pacific shares outside Japan fell more than 1 percent before paring losses to be down 0.9 percent. The biggest losers were financials and cyclicals. The index's low for this year was on July 8.
Stock markets across the region declined with Japan's Nikkei down 0.5 percent and South Korea's Kospi falling 0.9 percent.
"We believe the macro environment remains challenging for emerging market assets amid headwinds of low commodity prices, concerns over China and a looming Fed tightening cycle," Barclays strategists wrote in a daily note in clients.
Recent flows data confirm that trend. Net foreign selling from emerging Asia has reached nearly $10 billion over the past two months with only India seeing some tiny inflows.
Although outflows have pummeled stock markets from Korea to Taiwan, valuations suggest more downside is likely.
While recent weakness in stocks has made emerging market valuations more attractive than those of developed market counterparts, they are twice as expensive as Asian financial crisis lows, according to research from Julius Baer.
On Wall Street on Friday, the Dow lost 0.3 percent and the S&P 500 shed 0.2 percent, due to a drop in energy shares.
In currencies, the dollar on Monday held broadly steady at 123.97 yen. The euro was steady at $1.1097.
While recent dollar moves have been buffeted by U.S. economic data, the broader trend was on the upside after the Federal Reserve last week left the door open for a possible interest rate increase in September.
The U.S. dollar has rallied 7.75 percent so far this year against the world's main trading currencies, after a 12.8 percent rise last year.
And "the dollar's recent rally may just be getting started," according to research from theBlackRock Investment Institute.
"Since the 1970s when the Bretton Woods fixed-currency regime ended and currencies began floating, a typical dollar rally has lasted roughly six to seven years," according toRuss Koesterich, BlackRock global investment strategist, who noted dollar rallies tend to be self-reinforcing, leading to greater inflows into U.S. assets in expectation of further dollar appreciation.
That traditionally is also a headwind for emerging markets, which have an inverse relationship to the dollar.
Commodities too are singing the emerging market blues.
Crude oil continued to flounder after posting its biggest monthly drop since 2008 in July onChina's stock market slump and signs that top Middle East producers were pumping out crude at record levels.
U.S. crude was down 0.7 percent at $46.81 a barrel after losing 21 percent in July.
Copper prices fell 10 percent in July, the worst month since January and are now at their lowest levels since June 2009.
Overall the Reuters commodity index fell 10.8 percent in July, its biggest monthly fall since September 2011.
Reflecting the economic slowdown in China and sluggish growth in Europe and theAmericas, international trade is also slowing.
Bonds were the sole bright spot.
The benchmark 10-year note yield held firm at 2.21 percent while 10-year Japanese bond yields stabilized at 0.41 percent.
Investors braced for a possible 20 percent plunge in stocks as the Athens Stock Exchange prepared to reopen Monday following a more than monthlong closure, the BBC reported, citing an asset manager at a Greek fund. The resumption in trading comes amid tense bailout negotiations that almost resulted in a "Grexit" from the 19-member eurozone. 
Athens is seeking about 10 billion euros ($10.9 billion) to help prop up its banks, the Greek newspaper Avgi reported Sunday. The National Bank of Greece’s U.S.-listed shares have lost about 20 percent of their value while the Athens exchange has been closed.
Greece narrowly escaped an exit from the 19-member eurozone in July following months of uncertainty after the government and its international creditors struck a bailout “aGreekment” in a reform-for-aid deal for the debt-stricken country. The country was teetering on the verge of collapse with a hobbled economy and more than 300 billion euros ($330 billion) of debt, but it still faces several key steps before its most recent bailout deal can be finalized with international creditors.
The Greek government and Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras completed its abrupt about-face by accepting even more restrictive austerity terms from the rest of the eurozone last month after a Greek referendum July 5 rejected international creditors’ demands for austerity reforms. The move came after Greece defaulted on its International Monetary Fund repayment of 1.6 billion euros ($1.77 billion) at the end of June.
Greek banks reopened July 20 after being shuttered for three weeks, but capital controls that prevent Greeks from withdrawing large amounts of cash from banks have remained in place.
Recent reports suggest the Greek government had a secret "Plan B" to hack taxpayer accounts during crisis talks to prepare a return to the drachma, the currency Greece used before it adopted the euro in 2001, The Telegraph reported.
On July 16, the Eurogroup finance ministers pushed forward a new three-year aid package for Greece, worth 86 billion euros ($93.6 billion). The European Union finalized a 7.2 billion-euro ($7.8 billion) bridge loan to Greece to help keep the country afloat until the full three-year bailout is finalized.
But the Greek situation appeared to take another turn for the worse last week as tensions within the left-wing Syriza party mounted, the IMF refused to participate in the third bailout and economic sentiment nose-dived. The bailout could go ahead despite the challenges, but the deterioration in the economy will make it difficult for Greece to pass future reviews, said Jennifer McKeown, senior European economist at Capital Economics.
Athens faces more steps before a deal can be finalized with international creditors.
Greece has outstanding debts to the IMF and European Central Bank estimated at 12 billion euros ($13.2 billion) due by mid-August. In the meantime, Greece could push for long-term debt restructuring. The Eurogroup's summit statement touched on “possible” measures to keep Greece’s financing needs sustainable, but creditors have yet to fully elaborate.
“A debt write-off is absolutely necessary for the Greek economy to stand any chance of a full recovery and even the softer factions of the Syriza government are likely to consider the alternative of Grexit if there is no promise of imminent relief,” McKeown said in a research note.
The cash-strapped country is dealing with a debt that’s 177 percent of its gross domestic product, more than any of the 19 nations using the euro. The European Commission’s Economic Sentiment Indicator for Greece tumbled in July, showing the economy will likely contract 3.3 percent this year.
Democratic White House hopeful Hillary Clinton said Sunday she'll uphold the Obama administration's key climate change policies if elected and defend them against Republican-led opposition. The former U.S. secretary of state was the first 2016 presidential candidate to respond to President Barack Obama's Clean Power Plan, which could be announced as soon as Monday.
The plan is "a significant step forward in meeting the urgent threat of climate change," Clinton said in a Sunday statement cited by the Washington Post.
Obama is expected to unveil the Clean Power Plan after more than a year of review by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. The latest version will require states to curb carbon dioxide pollution from power plants by 32 percent by 2030, compared with 2005 levels. The rules are designed to encourage state and utility investment in solar, wind and other renewable energy supplies while discouraging spending on dirtier power sources, such as coal and fuel oil.
"It drives investments in clean energy and energy efficiency, reduces asthma attacks and premature deaths, and promotes a healthier environment and a stronger economy," Clinton said in the statement. "It’s a good plan, and as president, I’d defend it."
A map of the Obama administration's Clean Power Plan, proposed in June 2014, shows possible emissions reduction targets for each state. Photo: National Conference of State Legislatures
Clinton's remarks arrive a week after the Democratic front-runner unveiled her own climate plan during a campaign stop in Iowa. On July 26, she set a goal to produce 33 percent of U.S. electricity from renewable sources by 2027, up from 7 percent today. Obama's current targets call for 20 percent renewables within 15 years.
She also called for installing a half-billion solar panels in the U.S. by 2020 -- or seven times today's solar power capacity -- and to generate enough clean energy within 10 years of her inauguration to power every home in America.
Republicans swiftly criticized Clinton's climate change initiatives, arguing the proposals would raise Americans' electricity costs and decimate jobs and investments in the fossil fuel and manufacturing industries. Obama's Clean Power Plan is facing similar criticisms from GOP policymakers and more than a dozen governors.
Environmentalists and clean energy supporters meanwhile largely praised Clinton's climate proposals.
Yet many green groups say they're still frustrated with the Democratic candidate, who has kept silent on other key environmental issues -- and whose track record as a politician and philanthropist suggests enduring ties with the fossil fuel industry. Her campaign chair, John Podesta, recently served as Obama's adviser on climate change policy.
"Hillary Clinton is just half the way there," Bill McKibben, who heads 350.org, a national grassroots environmental organization, told the New York Times last week. " We need Clinton to show she understands the other half of the climate change equation — and prove she has the courage to stand up against fossil fuel projects like offshore and Arctic drilling, coal leasing in the Powder River basin, and the Keystone XL pipeline.”
Clinton on July 28 declined to say whether she supported the Keystone XL pipeline, the controversial 1,179-mile conduit that would connect Canadian oil sands operations in Alberta to refineries on the Texas Gulf Coast.
During a campaign stop at Beech Hill Farm in Hopkinton, New Hampshire, Hillary Clinton declined to answer a voter's question about her stance on the proposed Keystone XL pipeline project.  Photo: Reuters/Brian Snyder
Proponents say the pipeline is essential to expanding North American oil production. But Canadian oil sands crude is a particularly carbon-intensive resource, since it requires enormous amounts of energy to extract, process, refine and transport. McKibben and other environmentalists argue that building the Keystone XL would lead to a rise in greenhouse gas emissions and undermine any government attempts to cut carbon.
Clinton told a New Hampshire voter last week that she wants to "wait and see" what Obama decides before offering her opinion on the project. The president has the final say on whether the TransCanada Corp. pipeline gets built because it crosses an international border.
"If it is undecided when I become president, I will answer your question," Clinton added.
Another major sticking point with green voters is Clinton's past support for offshore energy drilling. In 2006, as a New York junior senator, Clinton sided with Republicans and oil-state Democrats by voting to open an additional 8 million of acres of the Gulf of Mexico to oil and gas drilling. Sen. Barbara Boxer, D-California, and other climate champions opposed the measure, expressing concern of widespread coastal pollution and increased climate emissions.
The Obama administration earlier this year approved drilling in Alaska's Chukchi Sea and gave Royal Dutch Shell PLC to go-ahead to drill two oil exploration wells. Environmental activists last week blocked a Shell icebreaker docked in Portland, Oregon, that was destined for Alaska's Arctic Coast. The MSV Fennica eventually managed to maneuver through a blockade of Greenpeace activists who dangled from St. Johns Bridge and floated around in kayaks.
Her campaign has not yet publicly addressed the offshore drilling issue. "I have doubts about whether we should continue drilling in the Arctic," Clinton told  NH1's Paul Steinhasuer on July 29. "And I don't think it is a necessary part of our overall clean energy climate change agenda."
She added, "I will be talking about drilling in general, but I am skeptical about whether we should give the go ahead to drill in the Arctic."
Activists hang under the St. Johns Bridge in Portland, Oregon, on July 30, 2015, in an attempt to block the icebreaker, MSV Fennica, from heading toward Alaska's Arctic Coast. Photo: Greenpeace USA
Still, Clinton isn't expected to be hard on Big Oil, observers say. The Clinton Foundation, the charitable foundation she runs with her husband, former U.S. President Bill Clinton, has received millions of dollars from Exxon Mobil Corp. and ConocoPhillips in recent years. An International Business Times investigation revealed the foundation accepted donations from Pacific Rubiales, a Canadian oil company accused of human rights violations in Colombia.
The Clinton Foundation has maintained the donations are solely support its philanthropic mission. "As with other global charities, the Clinton Foundation receives the support of individuals, organizations, and governments from all over the world because our programs are improving the lives of millions of people," spokesman Craig Minassian told National Journal in February, as news of the oil company donations broke.
Environmental leaders said they weren't convinced. "We've long been concerned about Hillary Clinton's ties to the oil and gas industry," Ben Schreiber, the climate and energy program director for Friends of the Earth, told the publication. "We're concerned about the influence that these petrodollars have."
Microsoft Corporation’s (NASDAQ:MSFT) Windows 10 launch kicked off to a strong start last week, with its usage share jumping by four times in just three days, Computerworld.com reported, citing Irish metrics company StatCounter. Microsoft released Windows 10 Wednesday as a free upgrade for users who are currently using Windows 7 or Windows 8.
The increase was much larger than Microsoft’s last free upgrade of Windows 8.1 in October 2013.
The global Windows 10 usage share, a measure of how active users of the OS were on the Internet, doubled from 0.3 percent to 0.6 percent on the official launch day Wednesday, Irish metrics company StatCounter said. By Saturday, Windows 10's global usage share had climbed to 2.5 percent, Computerworld said.
Windows 8.1's usage share hit 0.6 percent on the third day after its debut, a fourth worldwide of Windows 10.
Microsoft announced millions of users upgraded in its first 24 hours of availability.
“While we now have more than 14 million devices running Windows 10, we still have many more upgrades to go before we catch up to each of you that reserved your upgrade,” Yusuf Mehdi, corporate vice president of Microsoft's Windows and Devices Group, said in a blog post Thursday.
However, researchers at Cisco Systems have warned users to beware of bogus Windows 10 upgrade emails from potential hackers. Cisco said the emails are designed to look like an official upgrade notice from Microsoft, but several words have random, out-of-place letters and punctuation.
The email message above is a sample of the type of messages that users are being presented with. There are a couple of key indicators in the message worth calling out. First, the from address, the adversaries are spoofing the email to look like it is coming directly from Microsoft (updatemicrosoft.com). This is a simple step that tries to get users to read further. Photo: Cisco Blogs
The world’s largest software company posted quarterly earnings and revenue July 21 that beat Wall Street estimates. However, Microsoft was dragged down by a $7.6 billion write-down and restructuring in the company’s Nokia mobile-phone operation.
Despite the write-down, revenue for the company's commercial cloud computing, a crucial segment that includes Office 365 and Azure, grew 88 percent from a year ago. The world's largest computer software company is unexpectedly in a new phase of growth, thanks in part to solid revenue in its cloud business, despite global personal computer sales suffering their steepest declines in two years during last quarter.
“We believe the start of Microsoft's methodical launch of Windows 10 will be another stepping stone in Mr. Nadella's cloud vision taking hold, with the vetting process from developers/users providing valuable feedback from the field,” Daniel Ives, an analyst at FBR Capital Markets, said in a research note.
FBR Capital Markets maintained its Outperform rating on Microsoft with a 12-month price target of $53.
Shares of Microsoft have gained 9 percent in the last 12 months.
The number of unpaid medical bills is shrinking across the United States thanks to the Obama administration's Affordable Care Act. As more people sign up for private health insurance, and as more states expand Medicaid programs for low-income Americans, hospital companies are reporting lower expenses for charity and uncompensated expenses, a Forbes columnist noted Sunday.
The latest example comes from Universal Health Services Inc., one of the largest U.S. hospital management companies. The firm's acute care hospitals have seen a "decrease in the aggregate of charity care, uninsured discounts and provision of doubtful accounts as a percentage of gross charges," executives said in their earnings report for the second-quarter and first half of 2015.
Uncompensated care declined in the second quarter "as it has the last six quarters now," Steve Filton, the company's chief financial officer, told analysts on a conference call Thursday.
Universal Health's cost for providing "doubtful accounts" -- an estimate of charges that are expected to go unpaid -- dropped 17 percent to $274 million during the first half of 2015, down from $331 million in the previous year.
Acute care hospitals provided charity care and uninsured discounts amounting to $550 million in the first half of this year, a nearly 7 percent dip from costs of $586 million in the first six months of 2014.
The decreases helped the King of Prussia, Pennsylvania, hospital firm raise its earnings forecast for the rest of 2015. Executives said last week they're increasing the estimated range of adjusted net income attributable to the company to $6.75 to $7.15 per diluted share -- a roughly 10 percent jump from the previously provided range of $6.15 to $6.55 per diluted share.
Forbes columnist Bruce Japsen said other private hospital companies might report similarly lower expenses related to unpaid bills and charity care in the weeks ahead. Such trends "should help the entire hospital industry, particularly as more states opt to expand Medicaid," he wrote.
In the last 18 months, 31 states and the District of Columbia have accepted federal support to expand their Medicaid programs under the Affordable Care Act, the Kaiser Family Foundation found in its latest tally.
“We assume that the growth in our Medicaid patient base and utilization is related at least in large part to Medicaid expansion,” Filton told analysts on the conference call. Universal Health has acute care facilities in California, Nevada and the District of Columbia, all of which have expanded Medicaid. The company also has locations in Florida, Oklahoma, South Carolina and Texas, which are among the 19 states that have not grown their Medicaid programs.
Other U.S. hospital operators reporting earnings this week include Tenet Health and Community Health Systems Tuesday, and HCA Holdings Wednesday.
Update as of 05:21 a.m. EDT: Malaysian officials confirmed Sunday that debris found earlier this week on the Indian Ocean island of Reunion is part of a Boeing 777 aircraft. Authorities from several countries have been serching for missing Malaysia Airlines flight MH370, which was the same type of plane.
"We know the flaperon has been officially identified as being part of a Boeing 777 aircraft," Transport Minister Liow Tiong Lai said in a statement, cited by Reuters.
"This has been verified by French authorities together with aircraft manufacturer Boeing, U.S. National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) and the Malaysian team comprising the Department of Civil Aviation, Malaysia Airlines, and Malaysian ICAO Annex 13 Safety Investigation Team for MH370."
Further pieces of metallic debris were also reportedly found washed up on the island Sunday. Media reports described them as small and said authorities quickly took the items away for examination.
Original story below
An object that could be an aircraft door has been found washed up on the Indian Ocean island of Reunion, as investigators probe another piece of debris to discover whether it is part of missing Malaysia Airlines flight MH370, according to media reports.
Sky News reported that the object was found washed up near the Island's airport, some distance from where what is believed to be a flaperon -- part of an aircraft wing -- was discovered days ago. The report stressed that it was unclear at this stage whether the item was aircraft wreckage.
The object is said to have foreign writing on it and possibly some illustration, the BBC reported.
The news will heighten speculation about progress in the hunt for MH370, which was carrying 239 people when it disappeared on a flight from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing on March 8, 2014. A huge international effort, including the governments of Malaysia, Australia and China, has been mounted to locate the aircraft, but thus far has uncovered no confirmed evidence of the plane's whereabouts.
The latest discovery follows the uncovering of what appears to be a flaperon from a Boeing 777 -- the same aircraft as MH370 -- and what appears to be an aircraft seat, which have reportedly washed up on the coast of Reunion in recent days.
The flaperon was flown to France, where it is currently being analyzed by air crash experts seeking to confirm whether it is from the missing aircraft or not.
If the debris is confirmed to be part of the missing airliner, it could begin to bring some degree of closure for the families of the missing passengers, who have had no news of their loved ones for over a year.
“One is aware of low probabilities of a favorable outcome,” KS Narendran, whose wife, Chandrika Sharma, was on board MH370 when it disappeared, told IBTimes this week, adding that he would feel “numb, empty and sad,” if the discoveries on Reunion lead to confirmation that MH370 had crashed.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Verizon Communications Inc and the unions representing its wireline unit employees on the U.S. East Coast said work will go on and talks continue after their current contract expired.
Since June, the unions have been in talks with Verizon over the company's plans to cut costs by controlling healthcare and pension-related benefits over a three-year period.
Last week, the Communications Workers of America (CWA) and International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers that represent over 37,000 wireline employees said they had voted to go on strike, if needed, after their contract expired on Aug. 1 at midnight. During the last round of contract negotiations in 2011, talks ended in a strike.
The unions want extra benefits in addition to job security provisions. The CWA said on Saturday that Verizon has not budged from its original proposal which they have said would increase workers' healthcare costs by thousands of dollars, eliminate job security and remove any restrictions on the company's right to contract out or offshore union jobs.
“Despite our best efforts, Verizon refuses to engage in serious bargaining towards a fair contract,” Dennis Trainor, Vice President for CWA District One, which represents Verizon workers in New Jersey, New York and Massachusetts, said.  "We’re not going to take it, and we’re going to keep the fight going while we’re on the job.”
Verizon presented the unions with a revised proposal on Saturday night that is on the table, the company said in a statement.
“We are disappointed that after six weeks of good faith bargaining and a very strong effort by the company, we have been unable to reach new agreements with the unions,” Marc Reed, Verizon’s chief administrative officer, said in the statement.
Verizon's wireline business includes FiOS Internet, telephone and TV services.
The company said on Friday there had been little progress in the talks, and that it is ready in the event of a work stoppage.
(Editing by William Hardy)
A man has claimed to have found a blue seat on the island of La Reunion, where wreckage thought to be from flight MH370 had earlier washed up.
Speaking to the Sunday Telegraph, Nicolas Ferrier claimed he spotted what he thought looked like a bus seat, while on his daily patrol of the Indian island picking up debris from the beach.
He said he found the seat in early May along with suitcases which he burned after mistaking them for rubbish.
"It wasn't until Wednesday that it hit me what it could have been. It was probably part of that plane," he said.
The latest claims come as wreckage thought to be from the missing plane arrived in France for investigators to examine.
The plane debris discovered by beach cleaners, is thought to belong to the vanished Boeing 777 which was carrying 239 passengers and crew when it disappeared from trace in March 2014.
An Air France flight carrying the debris landed at Orly airport near Paris just after 4am UK time.
It will be delivered to a military unit near the southwest city of Toulouse which specializes in analyzing aviation wreckage.
Discovery of the debris may finally confirm the plane crashed into the sea after veering off course from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing. Investigators believe someone deliberately switched off MH370's transponder before diverting it thousands of miles off course. Most of the passengers were Chinese.
The debris will be analyzed at a lab staffed by 600 experts that is operated by the defense ministry near Toulouse.
If the serial number on the flaperon confirms that it is from Flight 370 then the laboratory can use sophisticated tools to try to glean more information about the causes of the crash.
Malaysian Transport Minister Liow Tiong Lai told Reuters that additional Malaysian officials were heading to Reunion to look for more debris and others would go to France for the investigation.
Paris prosecutor François Molins appointed the investigative magistrate to lead the team of aeronautic and judicial investigators, including Malaysian authorities, to probe the aircraft part, says the Wall Street Journal.
The authorities in Australia, who are leading the search for missing aircraft MH370, are "increasingly confident" the piece of debris washed ashore on Reunion Island in the Indian Ocean belongs to the doomed airliner.
The drivers who run the commuter shuttles for seven big Silicon Valley companies voted unanimously Saturday to approve a union proposal that would increase their wages and benefits, the Teamsters Union said in a statement. The vote, held at the Teamsters Union hall in San Leandro, California, was 75-0.
The contract, which includes provisions like hourly pay increases over the three-year contract, employer contributions to a defined pension plan, shift differential pay and a six-house minimum for drivers who do not work split shifts, covers the employees of Compass Transportation. The charter company is contracted by tech companies Apple, Yahoo, Evernote, Ebay, Zynga, Genentech and Amtrak.
Negotiated over a period of five months, the contract will now be presented to Compass Transportation for review, the Teamsters Union said. Much of the proposal is based on another Teamsters agreement with Facebook crafted for the employees of Loop Transportation, another shuttle bus tech company. That proposal was approved in February.
“The overwhelming vote is an indication of the significance of the changes made by this contract, most of which are going to be life-changing for the people that drive these buses, and for their families,” Rome Aloise, principal officer of Teamsters Local 853, said in a statement.
Compass Transportation Senior Vice President Bryan O’Connell told USA Today its discussions with the Teamsters have been “constructive and productive.”
"We look forward to our employees having the opportunity to vote on an actual formal contract offer from us in the near future," O’Connell said.
Part of a Minneapolis-St.Paul International Airport terminal was briefly evacuated and the upper airport roadway closed on Saturday after an unattended bag tested positive for explosives, a spokeswoman said.
The north end of the Lindbergh terminal was evacuated at about 1:20 p.m., and the roadway shut down while a bomb squad from the Bloomington, Minnesota, police department investigated, airport spokeswoman Melissa Scovronski said.
"It was an unattended backpack on one of the airline ticket counters, on the scale," she said. "One of our officers decided to swab it, and it came back positive for explosives." The bag, which had been left on a scale at a ticket counter, also tested positive when a Transportation Security Administration agent swabbed it, Scovronski said.
The scene was cleared and the terminal reopened about 40 minutes later, she said, after no explosives were found.
Airport police were trying to determine who left the bag on the scale and why it tested positive, Scovronski said.
For the first time, Puerto Rico missed a bond payment Saturday, a major setback for the U.S. commonwealth’s 3.5 million people. The island territory has already suffered a decade of economic stagnation, with high unemployment, rising taxes and recent cuts in everything from university education to senior healthcare. Now that Puerto Rico’s Public Finance Corp. (PFC), a government financing unit, has failed to make a $58 million payment, it will become more costly and difficult for the commonwealth to borrow funds as it attempts to restructure a staggering $73 billion in debt.
“After Saturday, credit-ratings agencies will have something to say about this missed payment,” says Jim Colby, senior municipal strategist at Van Eck Global, a New York investment advisory firm. “The next set of headlines will be which public corporation is next in failing to make a payment, and what the commonwealth’s response to that will be. There’s a huge amount of uncertainty right now.”
Because the deadline was Saturday, the PFC technically has until the end of Tuesday to make its missed payment, but it appears unlikely to make a difference. Victor Suarez, chief of staff for Puerto Rico’s Gov. Alejandro Garcia Padilla, told journalists in San Juan Friday, “We don’t have the money.” A default is thus looming as the commonwealth inches closer to the largest -- and messiest -- government-debt restructuring in the history of the U.S.
“Puerto Rico is in uncharted territory,” says Frank Shafroth, director of the Center for State and Local Government Leadership at George Mason University’s School of Policy, Government and International Affairs.
Valerio Ginairs (left) and Ricardo de la Cruz relax outside a bar in San Juan, Puerto Rico, a day after the commonwealth's Gov. Alejandro Garcia Padilla gave a televised speech about the government’s $72 billion debt June 30, 2015. The territory's labor-participation rate is a staggeringly low 40 percent, compared with the U.S. national average of about 68 percent. Photo: Joe Raedle/Getty Images
Puerto Rico faces a grim future. It’s operating with a $703 million budget deficit for the fiscal year that began last month. And the commonwealth faces $635 million in debt-service payments this month, according to the Standard & Poor’s ratings agency. Overall, it has to make $5.4 billion in bond payments through next summer, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Meanwhile, its fiscal 2015 budget, running through next June, is $9.8 billion, leaving little for services such as trash pickup, road maintenance, education and other government functions.
Puerto Rico will need to borrow more money, but the missed bond payment Saturday just made obtaining future credit a lot more expensive. “A default on the PFC bonds would be further demonstration of increasing unwillingness [of Puerto Rico] to pay debt in full,” David Hitchcock, an S&P credit analyst in New York, wrote in a research note last week.
Lawyering Up
The missed payment is the first since Garcia Padilla admitted last month that Puerto Rico’s debts were unsustainable, ringing alarm bells among creditors and sending the commonwealth’s bond prices plummeting. The missed payment could be the first of several that may lead to complicated fights between private lenders (hedge funds and mutual funds) and public borrowers (Puerto Rico’s municipalities and publicly owned corporations).
Puerto Rico’s indebted central government, municipalities and public corporations cannot file for bankruptcy protection without the OK of the U.S. Congress, which leaves them at the mercy of what could be hundreds of lawsuits filed by creditors.
A sign advises customers that after July 1 the tax on parking would rise 11.5 percent from 7 percent. The island sales and use taxes, covering most products and services, all went up by the same proportion last month as part of the government’s efforts to raise revenue. Photo: Joe Raedle/Getty Images
Unlike Detroit, which achieved an orderly restructuring of its municipal debt in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in 2013, Puerto Rico and its creditors will engage in a protracted and expensive series of legal disagreements inside bank boardrooms and federal courthouses.
“Without a referee in the form of a bankruptcy court, it’s going to be a mess,” Shafroth says. “In Detroit’s case, there were close to 10,000 creditors. Imagine if Detroit had been cut off from bankruptcy with all those creditors lined up, hiring law firms.”
Bankruptcy protection would also ensure that vital public services, such as emergency-call and law-enforcement responses, remain funded, something that is not otherwise guaranteed.
But Puerto Rico is unlikely to get much out of Washington. Despite calls by Treasury Secretary Jack Lew and presidential hopefuls Jeb Bush and Hillary Clinton to let Puerto Rico use bankruptcy court, conservative lawmakers aren’t likely to allow it because they fear the reprisals of constituencies that regard municipal bankruptcies as backdoor bailouts.
A family relaxes on the beach near the shell of a building in San Juan, Puerto Rico, July 1, 2015. The island's residents are dealing with increasing economic hardships and a financial crisis. Photo: Joe Raedle/Getty Images  Puerto Rico’s Borrowing
Puerto Rico has about 18 different types of bonds, ranging from general obligation bonds, whose payments are guaranteed by the commonwealth’s Constitution, to bonds issued by public corporations, which are responsible for things such as electricity and highways and whose assets could be sold to settle debts.
Over the years, mutual-fund managers have had an incentive to buy Puerto Rican bonds, because their returns are tax-free. Investors have been able to use the commonwealth’s bonds as a way to raise their yields and lower their tax burdens. Mutual-fund managers also have spent years using Puerto Rico’s securitized debt as a way to diversify their portfolios, passively enabling the island’s deficit spending. The mechanism prevented the territory from tackling crucial but unpopular reforms as its debts ballooned throughout the Great Recession.
Investors operated under the assumption that buying Puerto Rican bonds was a so-called safe way to boost returns on investment. The implicit theory was that the U.S. government would back the commonwealth government when things turned sour.“The warning signs have been out for years about Puerto Rico and its extraordinary debt,” Colby says. “But investors have been making the presumption that Puerto Rico would somehow find support financially from U.S. Congress.”And now, some mutual funds have such large holdings of Puerto Rico’s debt that they can’t afford to exit the territory. An economic disaster could occur if they all chose to dump their bonds in a short period of time.
Mutual funds with high exposure to Puerto Rico’s debt, such as certain high-risk vehicles at shops ranging from Fidelity Investments to OppenheimerFunds, will fight to avoid taking huge losses. Investors would prefer instead to see debt terms renegotiated -- perhaps with a plan to extend payments further into the future to give the commonwealth room to breathe.

Functioning like payday lenders in a way, hedge funds have been buying bonds at steep discounts. They are now eyeing state assets, such as government buildings and sewage-treatment plants, for privatization in an effort to recover their investments.
And some major government assets have indeed been privatized in recent years. A consortium including a unit of Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in New York now manages two Puerto Rican toll highways, and the asset manager Oaktree Capital Management in Los Angeles is a key investor in San Juan's Luis Muñoz Marín International Airport.
Since 2013, funds such as Aurelius Capital, Davidson Kempner Capital Management, Fir Tree Partners and Monarch Alternative Capital have been piling into Puerto Rico’s debt, and now they intend to turn the screws on the commonwealth to recover as much as they can. (A full list of these funds can be found here.)
Two Different Proposals
Critics say the reason Puerto Rico was able to amass so much debt was because lenders took advantage of the island’s tax-free bond status, and they should accept the consequences of the risks by absorbing the brunt of the pain.
“Investors should suffer the loss,” John Perkins, author of the 2004 book “Confessions of an Economic Hit Man,” said in a recent interview with International Business Times. Perkins is an outspoken critic of the way the financial industry drives countries into crippling debt. “They took a risk. They stepped up to the poker table and lost their hand, but the people of Puerto Rico shouldn’t have to suffer any more than the people of Detroit for this.”
Almost everybody watching Puerto Rico says there’s plenty of blame to go around and that the losses should be distributed on all sides: mutual-fund investors, private wealth managers and the Puerto Rican municipalities and agencies.
But how Puerto Rico digs itself out of this hole is a big uncertainty.
Puerto Rico outlined its strategy last month in its so-called Krueger report. It’s a blueprint for how the commonwealth would cut costs and raise taxes in return for partial debt relief. The report proposes steep spending cuts and reforms of the labor market to promote business growth, which would include lowering the territory’s minimum wage to promote small-business growth.
Released last week, a report commissioned by the major hedge funds invested in the island and titled “For Puerto Rico, There Is a Better Way,” basically agrees with the reforms proposed in the Krueger report, but dismisses the idea that Puerto Rico should receive any debt relief.
Desmond Lachman, resident fellow at the American Enterprise Institute, a center-right think tank in Washington, calls the hedge-fund-backed report “seriously flawed,” with unrealistic expectations. Lachman notes one problem is that the report’s projections of future growth are based on models that apply to countries with their own central banks. Because Puerto Rico is tied to the U.S. dollar and the Federal Reserve, it can’t implement monetary policies that have proven to work in other parts of the world.
“My view is that the right path for Puerto Rico would be to seek an orderly debt restructuring along the lines proposed by the Krueger report,” Lachman, a former deputy director of the International Monetary Fund’s policy development and review department, said by email. “That effort should be accompanied by far-reaching reforms that would restore dynamism to the Puerto Rican economy.”
The latest round of Trans-Pacific Partnership negotiations in Hawaii ended without the 12 countries reaching a final agreement because of disagreements over a number of small issues. Australia's trade representative is placing the blame for the accord's failure to pass on the United States and the so-called big four economies. 
“Australia had made some excellent progress but unfortunately some difficult issues were not resolved,” Australian trade representative Andrew Robb said, according to several reports. “The sad thing is, 98 percent is concluded.”
According to Robb, the U.S., Canada, Japan and Mexico were the main roadblocks to an agreement. There were concerns about auto trade, protection for prescription drug companies and access to dairy and sugar markets,  The Guardian reports
The TPP is a major trade deal that will govern concerns about 40 percent of the world’s economy. According to  The Australian,  the delegates will reconvene in November for more negotiating. The deal is worth about $200 billion.
Despite the sticking points, many of the delegates said they are hopeful that they can be resolved. “From my reading, the issues are not intractable and there remains a real determination to conclude the TPP among all parties,” Robb said.
According to reports, Robb is feeling pressure from back home. Various parties are unhappy with the current deal on the table for sugar farmers and have threatened to "cross the floor" when the deal is up for a vote in parliament. Farmers reportedly are not content with what the U.S. is offering in terms of sugar trade access.
"I'm trying to work particularly on the chance of increasing Australia's share of the growth in the U.S. sugar market, where I think there are big opportunities," Robb said, according to The Austarlian. "You can't go from exporting 87,000 tons of sugar to the U.S. straight to 1.5 million tons, but we can do more with our entitlement growth." 
New Zealand took issue with the deal because it wanted the deal to open dairy markets even further. It also joined Australia and Chile in opposing the U.S.’s proposed protection of pharmaceutical companies, according to the  New York Times.
Greece may seek 24 billion euros in a first tranche of bailout aid from international lenders in August to prop up its banks and repay debts falling due at the European Central Bank (ECB), a pro-government Greek newspaper said in its early Sunday editions.
Athens is now in talks with the European Commission and the International Monetary Fund to secure up to 86 billion euros ($94.48 billion) in bailout aid. It will be its third bailout since 2010.
Avgi newspaper, which is close to the leftist Syriza government, said Greek authorities expected to conclude talks with lenders by mid-August. 
The first tranche of 24.36 billion would be used to channel 10 billion euros as an initial recapitalization to Greek banks, 7.16 billion euros to repay an emergency bridge loan, 3.2 billion euros toward Greek bonds held by the European Central Bank and other payments, Avgi said. 
It has been estimated that Greek banks may require up to 25 billion euros to be recapitalized, a shortfall exacerbated by an outflow of deposits when a stalemate with lenders threatened Athens' place in the euro zone. 
The flood of money leaving the country culminated in authorities imposing capital controls on June 29 to prevent a financial meltdown.
In exchange for funding, Greece has accepted reforms including making significant pension adjustments, increasing value added taxes, overhauling its collective bargaining system and measures to liberalize its economy and limit public spending.
If the talks are not completed in time, European authorities may have to provide further temporary financing as they did with a July bridge loan, though Avgi said that possibility had not been discussed with lenders.
The death toll exacted by the devastating floods in Myanmar continued to rise as a  landslide in India’s Manipur state close to the border with the country aka Burma buried a village and killed 20 people, according to the Times of India. Myanmar officials reported nine other deaths in their nation Saturday, the Associated Press said.
Heavy monsoon rains have ravaged Myanmar for several weeks, leading to severe flooding in all but two of the country’s 14 states and resulting in at least 27 deaths, according to Agence France-Presse. It also has led to the displacement of thousands. In the wake of the damage, Myanmar’s president declared a state of emergency in four areas: Chin, Magway, Rakhine and Sagaing.
The Indian landslide occurred in the Joupi area of Manipur’s Chandel district. “The exact numbers of casualties would be known after the evacuation work is complete,” an official told the Times of India, calling the landslide “the worst ever in Manipur in recent times.”
The newly reported nine deaths inside Myanmar resulted from a boat capsizing in the northern state of Kachin. Saturday, President Thein Sein visited the rice-growing region of Sagaging, one of the rural regions that incurred some of the worst damage, Reuters reported.
The Myanmar national flag is seen in a flooded village in Kawlin township, Sagaing division, of the country July 21, 2015. Photo: Reuters/Soe Zeya Tun
According to the Global New Light Times of Myanmar, flooding has led to the inundation of almost 400,000 acres of farmland and the destruction of nearly 30,000 acres. Another 73,000 acres were damaged as well.
Rescue and aid efforts are under way, but they are being hampered by the severity of the damage and the country’s weak infrastructure. A director with the social-welfare ministry told AFP the nation’s authorities and aid groups were “struggling to access flood-hit areas.”
SoulCycle Inc. is giving new meaning to the term “sweat equity.” Beloved by high-profile celebrities such as the actress and talk-show host Kelly Ripa, Victoria Secret’s model Karlie Kloss and former soccer player David Beckham, the indoor-cycling fitness chain filed for a $100 million initial public offering with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission this week. In conjunction with the company’s Wall Street debut, it will spun off by its current owner, the privately held luxury-gym chain Equinox Holdings Inc.
Here are five things we learned from SoulCycle’s Form S-1 filing with the SEC:
SoulCycle is more than a business, “it’s a movement.”
SoulCycle has a following that includes business leaders and celebrities who are drawn to the idea of a meditative fitness experience. “SoulCycle isn’t in the business of changing bodies: It’s in the business of changing lives,” the company says in the filing.
The New York-based firm was founded in 2006 and has transformed from a single, 31-bike indoor-cycling studio on the Upper West Side of Manhattan into a high-growth lifestyle brand. It’s attracted a cult following of about 235,000 riders in 38 studios across seven U.S. metropolitan areas, with 23 of them in the New York metro area.
SoulCycle also has 11 locations in California, as well as studios in Boston, Washington and southern Florida.
From left, Jac Jagaciak, Lais Ribeiro, Martha Hunt, Elsa Hosk, Romee Strijd and Jasmine Tookes attend the Victoria's Secret Supermodel Cycle at a SoulCycle studio in the West Village of New York July 8, 2015. Photo: Getty Images/D Dipasupil/FilmMagic
SoulCycle isn’t cheap, which means it brings in big revenue.
The price of a single class is $34. Add in $3 for the rental of shoes and $2 for a water bottle, and you’re already spending almost $40 per session. But that hasn’t stopped SoulCycle’s cult following.
Last year, the company posted revenue of $112 million, with studio fees alone accounting for close to 84 percent of its total revenue. In the January-March quarter, the firm’s earnings grew nearly 50 percent, to $8.1 million, on revenue of $34.8 million.
SoulCycle posted revenue of $112 million in 2014, with studio fees alone accounting for almost 84 percent of the company’s total revenue. Photo: SoulCycle/SEC Form S-1 Filing
SoulCycle is a “cardio party.”
SoulCycle isn’t your typical fitness experience. Its studios average 72,000 rides per week, and 30 percent of its weekly rides are reserved within the first 15 minutes of availability in what the company calls the “Monday at noon” frenzy when riders can select classes for the coming week.
“Set in a dark, candlelit room to high-energy music, our riders move in unison as a pack to the beat, and follow the cues and choreography of the instructor,” the company says in its SEC Form S-1. “The signature class includes approximately 35–40 minutes of riding, a five- to eight-minute upper-body strength series using hand weights and a three-minute cooldown stretch.”
Instructor Stacey Griffith hosts the Brooklyn Nets and SoulCycle All-Star Ride at the Barclays Center in the Brooklyn borough of New York Feb. 14, 2015. Photo: Getty Images/James Devaney
SoulCycle could be an “at-home” experience soon.
SoulCycle wants to expand beyond its studios into digital and retail content. “We believe there is also an opportunity to expand SoulCycle class content to an at-home audience,” the company said. But the firm didn’t provide details of its plans. 
SoulCycle also sees opportunities in retail. It already has a branded line of apparel, including silver retail bags that can be seen in airports, on street corners and in households across the country. In addition, the bags can be seen on the shoulders of celebrities such as the actress Reese Witherspoon after leaving the gym.
Reese Witherspoon is spotted leaving a Los Angeles gym Jan. 21, 2014. Photo: Getty Images/GC Images/Bauer-Griffin
SoulCycle will go public led by former Equinox executives
SoulCycle is being spun off by the luxury-gym chain Equinox Holdings, which owns 97 percent of its shares. Former Equinox executive Melanie Whelan, who joined SoulCycle in 2012 as chief operating officer, was appointed its CEO. Larry Segall, who served as Equinox’s chief financial officer for 10 years, was named SoulCycle’s CFO. Co-founders Elizabeth Cutler and Julie Rice serve as co-chief creative officers.
SoulCycle did not set an IPO date in its SEC filing, and it noted neither the number of shares to be made available nor their price. The company also did not specify whether its equity would be trading on the Nasdaq or the New York Stock Exchange.
Kelly Ripa (foreground, left), Andy Cohen (foreground, center) and Sade Baderinwa attend the Action for Healthy Kids Benefit at the SoulCycle studio in the Tribeca neighborhood of New York May 4, 2011. Photo: Getty Images/WireImage/John Lamparski
HOBOKEN, New Jersey -- Aaron Boucher likes to joke that he used to hunt for apartments in Brooklyn based on their proximity to fried chicken restaurants. But these days, he's a little pickier: He wants to be close to everything.
That's why he lives in Hoboken, a 1.28-square-mile city considered one of the country's most walkable. He said he likes that every amenity he could imagine is minutes away by foot, so when, for example, on Wednesday night his wife wanted to cook Mexican food, he could walk to the corner grocery store to buy sour cream.
"On any given block you have bodegas, bars, restaurants," said the furniture designer as he sat back in a nearby Starbucks scribbling in his sketchbook.
As the United States housing market continues to recover from the 2007 bubble burst, it is also faced with the challenge of catering to young people who want options for walkability even if they’re not in a traditional city. Experts say both suburbs and cities will evolve as the millennial generation enters the home-buying age with a set of preferences contrary to their suburban-minded parents' over the past 50 years.
People walk down a street in downtown on May 13, 2014, in Newark, New Jersey.  Photo: Getty Images
Millennials Ditch Cars, Favor Feet
Millennials, or people between the ages of 18 and 34, prefer walking to driving by a greater margin than any other generation, according to poll results released this week by the National Association of Realtors and the Transportation and Research and Education Center at Portland State University. It’s a  trend the U.S. has been seeing for years -- in 2010, only about 70 percent of 19-year-olds had driver’s licenses, compared to 87 percent in 1983.
This theme has transferred over into real estate. More than half of the respondents to the realtor association's survey said “sidewalks and places to take walks” were “very important” factors in deciding where to live, with 41 percent saying they want to be within an easy walk to other places in a community. Millennials prioritize finding alternatives to driving, improving public transit and creating communities where cars aren’t necessary. Many say they’d rather rent a smaller place in a walkable area than a big place in a non-walkable area.
Young people like walking for a variety of reasons, not the least of which is finances, said Jennifer Dill, a Portland State professor who worked on the study. Millennials can avoid paying for car insurance, gas and parking if they walk, bike or take public transit. If they can get somewhere cheaper or faster, they will. Helping the environment is just a happy side effect.

As a result, they’ve begun gravitating toward communities where everything they need is close -- grocery stores, doctors’ offices, restaurants, bars and more, Dill said. Between 2013 and 2014, the number of Americans living in metropolitan areas jumped by nearly 2.4 million people. Houston, Atlanta and Austin all saw large influxes, as did lesser-known areas like Boise, Idaho; Fort Myers, Florida; and Myrtle Beach, South Carolina; according to U.S. Census data.
San Francisco also saw an increase of about 64,000 people over the past year, which doesn’t surprise local broker associate Lynn Finnegan. She said the Bay Area sees a lot of young people because several tech companies, like Google and Facebook, recruit them to come there. Those companies often offer shuttle buses that take employees to and from work, so when they relocate they don’t bring their cars. When they come home, they want to be where the action is, Finnegan said.
“They want convenience,” she said. “They just want to walk outside their door and go to a restaurant, go get a drink, take their stuff to the laundry… everything is so quick and immediate.”
Finnegan, 51, lives in what’s considered a walkable area. Her dentist is a half-block away, and so is her favorite historic bar, the Philosopher’s Club. There’s a Starbucks, a Peruvian restaurant, an Indian place, public transit and a Chase bank within two minutes’ walking time. She said her neighborhood isn’t unique in this sense. “Throughout the city you see these central hubs where you can get everything."

How Cities Are Adapting
As young people have started to move in, urban areas have stepped up their mixed-use developments, said Hugh Morris, manager of smart growth, community and political affairs for the realtor association. After spending decades expanding the suburbs, developers are trying to catch up in the cities.
In Portland, former Mayor Samuel Adams launched a campaign promoting 20-minute neighborhoods, or residential areas where people could travel everywhere they needed within 20 minutes. In Dallas, the city built the five-acre Klyde Warren Park over an eight-lane freeway to “ promote increased pedestrian, trolley and bicycle use between Uptown, Downtown and the Arts District, contributing to a more walkable city center,” according to its  website. In Washington, D.C., almost every surface parking lot has disappeared and been built on, Morris said.
This trend will likely continue, but so will inner-ring suburbs’ efforts to become more urban, said Christopher Leinberger, a Brookings Institution fellow and professor of real estate and urbanism at George Washington University. Developers will make them denser, with office parks and malls coming down to make space for apartments and restaurants, and more accommodations for alternative transportation. 
“This is not city versus suburb,” Leinberger said. “You’re seeing the Jersey Citys and the Stamfords and the Somervilles north of Boston, they are urbanizing at a very rapid rate led by the same forces.”
In the 114,000-person city of Lansing, Michigan, last year, the City Council dedicated $69,000 in tax credits for a developer to turn an abandoned building into residential and retail space. Alexandria, Virginia, which has about 149,000 people, recently approved plans for a new Metrorail station there. Hoboken, which has about 53,000 people, is testing a bikeshare program to make the city more cycling-friendly.
ICYMI, Alexandria City Council has picked a Potomac Yard Metro site http://t.co/254mWzZweA pic.twitter.com/81qWQYBIZ8
&mdash; WashingtonBizJournal (@WBJonline) May 22, 2015
Concern About The Future
Jake Simon, a recent graduate from Pennsylvania State University who lives in Staten Island, New York, said he doesn't own a car. And he hopes he won't ever need one. 
As he sat in Hoboken's Pier A Park before starting work one morning, a steady stream of young moms maneuvered strollers in and out of coffee shops as joggers sped down sidewalks. Nearby Washington Street buzzed with people running errands, stopping by the pre-school, tanning salon or bakery before visiting the dentist, dry cleaners or Asian fusion restaurant, made possible because they're all right next to one another.
Simon, a 22-year-old client analyst for a risk management company, said being in a walkable city lets him explore. No matter where he needs to be -- a bar or a flower shop or a cafe -- "it's not too far," he said.
The enthusiasm of people like Simon is encouraging for city administrators undertaking large projects to make their suburbs more urban, but there's an underlying degree of doubt. Despite being years into the economy’s recovery, the number of millennials still living at home with their parents has remained steady, according to a Pew Research Center study released Thursday. In 2007, right before the Great Recession, 71 percent of young adults lived on their own. Today, about 67 percent do.
Millennials also are marrying later in life than other generations did, causing experts to worry that maybe their preference for urban homes could be just the result of their youth. It’s unclear whether they’ll leave the cities and seek suburban homes once they have families.
Hauke Vagts, a 35-year-old IT security consultant, said he has no plans to leave Hoboken anytime soon. On Thursday, he was sipping a Dunkin Donuts iced coffee while pushing his 5-month-old daughter, Hannah, around town in a stroller. They had a full day ahead of them: Stop by the post office, go grocery shopping, drop off dry cleaning. But they'd still get home in time for Hannah's nap.
"Everything is in reach," Vagts said.
PARIS/KUALA LUMPUR (Reuters) - Airplane debris that washed up on the Indian Oceanisland of Reunion and may belong to the vanished Malaysia Airlines Boeing 777 arrived inFrance on Saturday for investigators to study its origin.
According to a Reuters witness and Agence France Presse, an Air France flight carrying the debris landed at Orly airport near Paris at 0417 GMT (12.17 a.m. EDT).
It will be delivered to a military unit near the southwest city of Toulouse which specializes in analyzing aviation wreckage.
Experts hope the barnacled 2-2.5 meters (6.5-8 feet) long wing surface known as a flaperon and a fragment of luggage could yield clues as to the fate of Malaysia Airlines Flight MH370, which vanished without trace in March 2014.
There were 239 passengers and crew on board, and some families of the victims are demanding further compensation from the airline.
Malaysian Transport Minister Liow Tiong Lai told Reuters in Kuala Lumpur on Saturday that additional Malaysian officials were headed to Reunion to look for more debris and others would go to France.
"If the flaperon does belongs to MH370 it is actually in accordance with the drift pattern seen in the Southern Indian Ocean. But we do not want to speculate. We will wait for verification from the French authorities," he said.
Discovery of the debris may finally confirm the plane crashed into the sea after veering off course from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing, helping to end 16 months of lingering uncertainty for relatives.
Investigators believe someone deliberately switched off MH370's transponder before diverting it thousands of miles off course. Most of the passengers were Chinese.
The debris will be analyzed at a lab staffed by 600 experts that is operated by the defense ministry near Toulouse.
If the serial number on the flaperon confirms that it is from Flight 370 then the laboratory can use sophisticated tools to try to glean more information about the causes of the crash, such as whether its shape corresponds more to a mid-air explosion or a crash into the ocean.
The defense ministry also contributed to the investigation of Air France flight 447 from Rio de Janeiro to Paris that killed 228 people in June 2009.
A fragment of luggage that was also found in the area is being flown into France with the aircraft debris and will be sent to a unit outside Paris that specializes in DNA tests.
(Additional reporting by Julie Rimbert in Toulouse; Writing by Leila Abboud; and Jeremy Laurence; Editing by Kim Coghill)
LAHAINA, Hawaii (Reuters) - Pacific Rim trade ministers failed to clinch a deal on Friday to free up trade between a dozen nations after a dispute flared up over auto trade between Japan and North America, New Zealand dug in over dairy trade and no agreement was reached on monopoly periods for next-generation drugs.
Trade ministers from the 12 nations negotiating the Trans-Pacific Partnership, which would stretch from Japan to Chile and cover 40 percent of the world economy, fell just short of a deal at talks on the Hawaiian island of Maui but were confident an agreement was within reach.
"The undergrowth has been cleared away in the course of this meeting in a manner that I would say is streets ahead of any of the other ministerial meetings that we have had," New Zealand Trade Minister Tim Groser said. "You can see clearly that there are one or two really hard issues, and one of them is dairy."
Australian Trade Minister Andrew Robb said the problem lay with the "big four" economies of the United States, Canada, Japan and Mexico. "The sad thing is, 98 percent is concluded," he said.
Failure to seal the agreement is a setback for U.S. President Barack Obama, given the trade pact's stance as the economic arm of the administration's pivot to Asia and an opportunity to balance out China's influence in the region.
The talks, which drew about 650 negotiators, 150 journalists and hundreds of stakeholders, had been billed as the last chance to get a deal in time to pass the U.S. Congress this year, before 2016 presidential elections muddy the waters.
The TPP seeks to meld bilateral questions of market access for exports with one-size-fits-all standards on issues ranging from workers' rights to environmental protection and dispute settlement between governments and foreign investors.
The result frustrated negotiators who had toiled through the night to cross off outstanding disputes. U.S. Trade Representative Michael Froman said resolved issues included protection for regional food specialties.
STICKING POINTS UNCHANGED
Despite the progress made, issues pegged as sticking points going into the talks were still blocking a deal after four days of discussions. No date was set for ministers to meet again.
New Zealand has said it will not back a deal that does not significantly open dairy markets, with an eye to the United States, Japan and Canada, as well as Mexico.
John Wilson, chairman of the world's largest dairy exporter, New Zealand dairy cooperative Fonterra , arrived to attend the talks late on Thursday to press home the case.
Ministers also remained apart on how long to protect data used to develop biologic drugs.
U.S. drugmakers want 12 years protection, but Australia has only five and Chile has none at all. "For us it's vital to have an agreement that balances public policy goals for intellectual property in medicines," said Chilean vice minister for trade, Andres Rebolledo.
"The U.S. was on one side of the issue, while practically every other country were on the other side," a source from a non-U.S. negotiation nation said. "Neither side was prepared to move and all claimed it as a red line issue."
Japan and the United States had largely agreed on the rules of origin for cars, which determine when a product is designated as coming from within the free trade zone and therefore not subject to duties. But they ran into problems trying to get buy-in from Canadaand Mexico, which are closely tied in to the U.S. auto industry.
Mexican Economy Minister Ildefonso Guajardo said Mexico was the world's fourth-biggest auto exporter and he made no apologies for standing up for his country.
Japanese automakers source many car parts from Thailand, which is not a member of the TPP, and strict rules would upset existing supply chains.
(Reporting by Ami Miyazaki and Krista Hughes; Additional reporting by Dave Graham and David Ljunggren; Editing by Dan Grebler and Ken Wills)
Retired U.S. basketball star Michael Jordan made headlines this week, after losing a legal action against Qiaodan Sports, a Chinese athletic apparel company whose products bear more than a passing similarity to Nike's Air Jordan line.
The company's name, Qiaodan, is the Mandarin transliteration of "Jordan," and the name by which the athlete has been known in the country since his rise to prominence. The company also uses the number 23 on its merchandise -- the number Jordan wore during his NBA career -- and its logo, a silhouette of a basketball player, bears a strong similarity to the Jordan “jumpman” logo used on Nike products.
The company is one of many, and by no means the biggest, in a group of family-run Chinese athletic apparel companies hailing from the city of Jinjiang, in Fujian province. The region is home to nearly half of China's -- and 20 percent of the world's -- sports shoe production, China Daily reported.
While many of the shoe and athletic apparel companies hailing from Fujian have sought to foster their own unique brands, such as 361 Degrees International and ANTA Sports, there are many that have marketed themselves by mimicking or effectively appropriating the styles, designs and in some cases the names of established Western brands.
Nike is aped by companies like FLYKE, the Chinese pronunciation of shoe company Xstep's name sounds remarkably similar to Reebok, and other brands feature the distinctive three white side stripes that have been a hallmark of European brand Adidas, according to a report from Peditimes.
Alternatively, as with Jordan's case, some firms simply appropriate the name of a celebrity without permission to help boost sales. Chinese basketball star Yao Ming successfully sued an athletic apparel company for producing shoes branded “Yao Ming Era,” without his permission in 2011.
Qiaodan Sports was formerly a small state-owned toiletries manufacturer, which was bought for $23,000 by Laosui Ding and his son, Guoxiong Ding, who is currently the CEO of what became Qiaodan. The company tried to register under the name “Maike’er Qiaodan,” the pinyin for the direct Chinese translation of “Michael Jordan,” in 2008 without success, and further attempted to register under “Jordan” in 2009, and failed again. It finally registered under “Qiaodan,” the pinyin of Michael Jordan’s last name, and a boost in sales immediately followed, according to Forbes.
The company has around 6,000 retail outlets in China, and brought in 1.7 billion yuan ($276 million) in revenue in 2012, the last year for which data was available. It is a sponsor of major sporting events in China, including a university basketball league.
As with many of the Fujian shoe companies, it is entirely family-owned, with chairman Guoxiong Ding and his wife, Yezhi, owning a majority stake through a holding company, while the remainder is owned by other family members, Forbes reported.
As China has risen to become a major economic power, other nations have become increasingly concerned about the widespread intellectual property theft that takes place in the country. The 2013 Intellectual Property Commission estimated that China was responsible for up to 80 percent of U.S. intellectual property theft, at a cost of $300 billion in lost exports, roughly the equivalent of the current American trade balance with Asia, the Register reported.
The country has, however, recently launched a crackdown on counterfeit goods. Just this week, Chinese police raided a factory that had been manufacturing tens of thousands of fake Apple iPhones. 
Mark Karpeles, the former CEO of the collapsed bitcoin exchange MtGox, was arrested Saturday by Japanese police over his alleged connection with the loss of bitcoins worth hundreds of millions of dollars. Authorities said that the 30-year-old French-born is suspected of manipulating the company’s computer system to falsify its outstanding balance, Reuters reported.
Tokyo-based MtGox, which was once the world’s largest hub for trading the virtual currency, filed for bankruptcy in February 2014. The company said at the time that it had lost 750,000 customer bitcoins and another 100,000 that belonged to the exchange due to a computer bug.
The lost bitcoins were said to be worth $480 million at the time of the bankruptcy filing. Karpeles had blamed hackers for the loss, and later said that he had recovered 200,000 bitcoins, worth nearly $116 million, in an old digital wallet from 2011.
According to the Wall Street Journal, Japanese media aired footage of Karpeles being taken away by police officers from his apartment Saturday morning. A local official familiar with the investigation told the Journal that some of the bitcoins that Karpeles said were stolen may not have existed.
Japan’s Nikkei reported Friday that Karpeles was going to be arrested over the disappearance of the virtual currency. Following the report, Karpeles told the Journal that the allegations against him were “false” and he would “of course deny” them.
Karpeles, who moved to Japan in 2009, has not been formally charged. In Japan, authorities can detain a suspect for up to 23 days without a formal charge, the Journal reported.
August is one of the best months to purchase basic necessities like clothing, shoes and school supplies, and sometimes even appliances and hurricane preparedness items. Why? Eighteen states have weeks, weekends or days during the month of August when anyone can buy these essentials without having to pay sales tax, potentially saving bundles.
Read on to find out if your state has a tax-free weekend and what items it exempts. Dollar amounts in parentheses indicate the maximum cost for which an item can be tax-free. Most of the information below is courtesy of TaxAdmin.org, and it's advisable to verify each state using the links provided.
Alabama: Aug. 7-9, clothing ($100), computers ($750), school supplies ($50), books ($30)
Arkansas: Aug. 1-2, clothing ($100), school supplies (no limit listed)
Connecticut: Aug. 16-22, clothing and footwear ($100)
Florida: Aug. 7-16, cchool supplies (no limit listed), clothing ($100), supplies ($15), computers ($750)
Georgia: July 31 - Aug.1, school supplies (no limit listed), clothing ($100), supplies ($20), computers ($1,000)
Numerous states have tax-free weekends in August, where customers do not pay sales tax on certain basic items, such as school supplies and clothing. Photo: Creative Commons
Iowa: Aug. 7-8, clothing ($100)
Louisiana: Aug. 7-8 All Tangible Personal Property, which usually refers to stuff that you could take with you somewhere, such as furniture, art, clothing and household items ($2,500)
Maryland: Aug. 9-15, clothing  and footwear ($100)
Mississippi: July 31 - Aug. 1, clothing and footwear ($100)
Missouri: Aug. 7-9, clothing ($100), computers ($3,500), school supplies ($50)
New Mexico: Aug. 7-9, clothing ($100), computers ($1,000), computer equipment ($500), school supplies ($30)
Ohio: Aug. 7-9, clothing ($75), school supplies ($20), instructional material ($20)
Oklahoma: Aug. 7-9, clothing ($100) 
South Carolina: Aug. 7-9, clothing (no limit listed), school supplies (no limit listed), computers (no limit listed)
 
School&#39;s right around the corner (eek) but so is Tax Free Weekend! http://t.co/gvszqJ8reB pic.twitter.com/Yt1itgpEp8
&mdash; The TN Credit Union (@TNCreditUnion) July 22, 2015
 
 
Tennessee: Aug. 7-9, clothing ($100), school supplies ($100), computers ($1,500)
Texas: Aug. 7-9, clothing, backpacks and school supplies ($100)
Virginia: Aug. 7-9, clothing ($100), school supplies ($20), energy star products ($2,500), hurricane preparedness items ($60), generators ($1,000)
The Obama administration’s new pilot program to expand federal Pell grants to prisoners cracks open a door that Congress shut two decades ago, when it eliminated prisoners' access to the education grants in 1994. But some advocates say that men and women leaving lives behind bars are especially vulnerable to the for-profit college industry, a sector that itself has become the target of multiple federal and state probes in recent years.
While the new program, which makes the grants available through a collection of experimental sites, sheds light on the educational opportunities -- or lack thereof -- available to the growing prison population, even supporters of the policy worry that ex-offenders need even more help making choices on matters of educational and professional development once they're out of prison.
“There’s nothing wrong at all with giving felons the chance to get a college education," says attorney David Halperin, who writes frequently about the for-profit college industry. "The problem is recruiting felons to programs that are poor quality, and particularly programs that felons won’t be able to benefit from because they have a criminal conviction.”
An ongoing lawsuit filed by Illinois Attorney General Lisa Madigan, for example, accuses for-profit Westwood College of misleading students in "nearly every important aspect" of the school's criminal justice degree program, "from the financing and cost of the program to the likelihood of a positive employment outcome after the student departs the school." The suit alleges that only 3.8 percent of the program's graduates found jobs as sworn law enforcement officers, and that the school failed to tell prospective students that job opportunities in the criminal justice field "may be limited for any graduate who has a criminal record, and especially for those who have a felony conviction on his or her record." The school has denied the allegations in court papers.
For-profit colleges "often have high prices, low quality, and often leave students worse off than when they started," says Halperin. "That's the last thing that a former offender needs." 
In New York state, organizations that help with re-entry for former prisoners have recently called attention to recruitment practices by for-profit colleges within prisons. Multiple re-entry groups "report seeing and hearing from their populations that representatives make regular visits to prisons for re-entering populations to apply to their schools," according to a brief published this month by the Financial Clinic. 
Some of the recruitment practices include assisting prisoners fill out the FAFSA, or Free Application for Federal Student Aid, says Haidee Cabusora, director of policy, services and research at the Financial Clinic.
Cabusora says her organization encourages ex-offenders to get an education as a way of building their lives anew. At the same time, she adds, it's critical that ex-offenders understand the value of the degree or certificate program they enroll in, and what kinds of financial responsibilities they're taking on. One big consequence of an ill-informed educational or job-training choice is dealing with the resulting unemployment—on top of student debt.
“Without fully explaining all of that information, folks could find themslevs leaving prison with a lot more debt than they originally anticipated, and diminished options for employment opportunities,” Cabusora says. 
Current prisoners and ex-offenders need more resources, she adds, "highlighting both the advantages and the disadvantages that are possible in such a big financial decision."
After years of relatively steady increases, the growth rate in American healthcare spending is accelerating again. Medical spending grew at a rate twice that of the economy in the second quarter of 2015, an advance estimate published Thursday by the Bureau of Economic Analysis at the U.S. Commerce Department showed. Those findings came on the heels of a separate report predicting that healthcare spending will rise significantly in the coming decade.
Compared to the same quarter in 2014, healthcare spending rose by 4.9 percent, while the economy grew by 2.3 percent, the Commerce Department’s analysis showed. That specific increase is one part of a broader trend showing that healthcare spending is picking up and is unlikely to slow down anytime soon.
Multiple factors are fueling this trend. The Affordable Care Act, the 2010 law that overhauled the U.S. healthcare landscape and helped nearly 17 million people gain health insurance, is one. New, expensive drugs for complex diseases like hepatitis C, cancer and multiple sclerosis, as well as rising prices for medical care more broadly, are also expected to boost spending, said a report published in the July issue of Health Affairs and written by officials at the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services.
Another driver of ever higher spending is America’s aging population. Toward the end of the coming decade, nearly 40 cents of every dollar spent on healthcare will go to beneficiaries of Medicare and Medicaid -- large, primarily government-funded insurance programs. The costs for patients in these programs tend to be higher than average, the Health Affairs article explained.

The growth in healthcare spending had hovered at about 4 percent, a historic low, in the years since the 2008 recession. The first year to break that trend was 2014, when healthcare spending increased by 5.5 percent.
From 2014 to 2024, growth in healthcare spending is expected to average 5.8 percent per year, so that within 10 years, 19.6 percent of the U.S. gross domestic product, or more than $5 trillion annually, will consist of spending on healthcare, the Health Affairs article said.
Some suggest that another reason healthcare spending is rising is that the economy is gradually improving and employment is more robust. As a result, people are spending more on healthcare, Thomas Getzen, a health economist, told Modern Healthcare.
The Commerce Department’s estimate, released Thursday, was based on “source data that are incomplete or subject to further revision by the source agency,” it cautioned, and the bureau said that an estimate based on more complete data would be released Aug. 27.
You can see inside Taylor Swift’s $20 million New York penthouse in photos that were taken when the house was on the market.
The pop singer’s New York pad may be no surprise for many. Loyal fans, especially those who follows Swift on social media, may already be familiar with her Instagram-famous Tribeca apartment, which she bought in 2014. On the real-estate site StreetEasy, avid Swifties can get a closer look at the singer’s New York headquarters. The nine-bedroom, nine-bathroom space is home to the singer and her celebrity friends, Martha Hunt, Lily Aldridge, Gigi Hadid and best friend, model Karlie Ross.
As seen in the photos, Swift’s penthouse features lofty vaulted ceilings, a huge gourmet kitchen, dining and living rooms. The pictures also showcase the property’s overall classic look – from the wood laden floors, the 12-foot high ceiling lined with wooden beams, fireplaces and red brick walls.
The Mirror previously reported that the “Shake It Off” singer had bought the $19.95 million Tribeca residence from “Lord of the Rings” director Peter Jackson. According to reports, she purchased two side-by-side lofts: one for her home headquarters and the other for her security team. Aside from the home’s 8,400 square feet, it has a 4,000-square-foot terrace where she regularly hosts parties.
For her 25th birthday in December, Swift hosted a giant pizza party attended by such luminaries as Justin Timberlake, Beyonce and Jay-Z, Sugarscape reported. Michael Clifford, who was spotted with a life-sized teddy bear, also was there, as well as Ansel Elgort from “The Fault in Our Stars.”
The multi-awarded singer is currently on the road for her “1989" world tour. She is slated to perform in Vancouver on Saturday.
Hedge fund holdings have surged past their pre-recession levels in recent years and despite new regulations imposed by the Dodd-Frank Act, managers of the funds are still able to mask the risks they pose to the financial system, according to a new federal study.
After the mayhem of the financial crisis in 2008, regulators pushed for insight into the murky world of hedge fund holdings. Now hedge funds -- privately managed firms that pursue a wide range of strategies to maximize depositors' returns -- are required to complete a filing called Form PF, tabulating their risks and liabilities in a series of 79 detailed questions.
But the form allows substantial wiggle room, according to research conducted by staffers at the Office of Financial Research, an agency under the aegis of the Treasury Department. "As a result, Form PF submissions may obscure reporting funds’ actual risks," the authors write.
The implications for the Securities and Exchange Commission, which debuted the form in 2011, are clear. "Additional reporting of a more diverse set of risk measures could improve the precision of the form’s risk measurement," the study states.
Their concerns aren't just theoretical quibbles. Ever since George Soros' Quantum Fund decided to "go for the jugular" and crash the British pound sterling in 1992, financial regulators have been keenly aware of hedge funds' destabilizing potential.

More often than not, it's a mix of risky bets and miscalibrated backup plans that make hedge funds a potenetial concern for financial markets. In 1998, Long-Term Capital Management, whose board of directors included two Nobel lauerates, exploded in spectacular fashion, forcing more than a dozen of the largest financial institutions to cobble together a bailout that would keep the financial system unharmed.
During the financial crisis, it was the collapse of investment bank Bear Stearns' in-house hedge fund, which had binged on risky mortgage-backed securities, that first got the Federal Reserve to take a hard look at the implications of the housing bubble. When the crisis accelerated in the coming year, the $2.2 trillion in assets collectively held by hedge funds became an engine of destabilization and uncertainty. 
To ensure that regulators wouldn't be in the dark on hedge funds again, Dodd-Frank financial reforms required firms to report regularly. The industry resisted the SEC's original proposed draft of Form PF, and the final version incorporated changes lobbied for by hedge fund groups like the Managed Funds Association.
According to the study's authors -- Mark Flood and Philip Monin of the OFR, and Lina Bandyopadhyay of the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago -- one particular question accounts for much of the uncertainty that still remains. Question 40 asks hedge funds to report how and whether they calculate "Value at Risk," or VaR, an industry model that purports to predict the odds of huge losses on any given day. 
But that measure is no backstop against catastrophe. The subprime mortgage debacle showed that accepted risk measures like VaR went out the window during times of upheaval. As one hedge fund manager told the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission, a government-appointed post-mortem on the meltdown: “The way people feel about gravity on a given day isn’t going to affect the way the rocket behaves.”
The authors of the study voice a similar concern. The variability of "Value at Risk" and other parts of the form -- including calculations of asset values and derivative holdings -- means hedge funds might be understating their actual exposures to the SEC.
There's no way to predict what that will mean when it really matters. Only another financial crisis will tell. 
U.S. stocks traded mixed Friday amid a series of weaker-than-expected energy earnings from the world's No.1 and No. 2 oil and gas companies. Although only three of the 10 Standard & Poor's 500 sectors traded lower, a 2 percent decline in energy weighed on the overall index as it struggled to hold onto gains from the utilities sector. 
The Dow Jones Industrial Average (INDEXDJX:.DJI) declined 18.30 points, or 0.10 percent, to 17,727.68. The S&P 500 index (INDEXSP:.INX) edged up 2.72 points, or 0.13 percent, to 2,111.46. However, the Nasdaq composite (INDEXNASDAQ:.IXIC) edged up 8.98 points, or 0.18 percent, to 5,137.18.
Exxon Mobil Corporation (NYSE:XOM), the world's largest publicly traded oil and gas company, and Chevron Corporation (NYSE:CVX), the second-largest, led the Dow lower Friday, falling 4.6 percent and 4.4 percent, respectively. Both companies saw profits decline sharply in the April-June quarter due to falling oil prices. Crude prices have lost nearly half their value in the last year. 
Chevron posted its worst quarterly profit performance in nearly 13 years. Exxon's earnings dropped 52 percent from a year ago -- to a level the company hasn't seen since 2009. 
Shares of Chevron and Exxon have lost 28 percent and 16 percent, repectively, over the last 12 months. 
Data released Friday revealed U.S. employment costs recorded their smallest increase in more than 30 years amid tepid gains in the private sector, which could give the Federal Reserve a reason to delay an interest rate hike this year as the central bank debates whether the economy is strong enough to move away from crisis-level rates.
On the heels of Thursday’s soft gross domestic product report, economists say the soft employment costs are an argument for no increase in the federal funds rate when the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) meets in September. Fed Chairwoman Janet Yellen “has said a rate hike is likely this year, but she, and the rest of the FOMC, would like to see stronger wage growth, which might be a reason to wait until December,” Stuart Hoffman, chief economist at PNC, said in a research note Friday.
The employment cost index, a quarterly report from the U.S. Department of Labor that measures the growth of employee compensation, including wages and benefits, rose 0.2 percent in the second quarter, missing expectations for a 0.6 percent increase, the Labor Department said Friday. That was the smallest gain since the Labor Department began tracking the index in 1982. The index had previously jumped 0.7 percent in the first quarter.
Following the report, the yield 10-year treasuries edged lower, trading at 2.20 percent as investor expectations for a rate hike as early as September declined. The decline in yields helped push interest rate sensitive sectors higher, as utilities and telecommunication rose 1 percent and 0.22 percent, respectively.
Compensation costs for civilian workers was little changed at 0.2 percent, seasonally adjusted, for the 3-month period ending June 2015, the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics reported Friday. Wages and
salaries (which make up about 70 percent of compensation costs) was also little changed at 0.2 percent, and benefits (which make up the remaining 30 percent of compensation) was little changed at 0.1 percent. Photo: U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics
Separately, U.S. consumer sentiment rose less slightly than expected in July as the index came in at 93.1, down from 96.1 in June, the University of Michigan’s final consumer sentiment report for July showed.
A disappointing pace of economic growth was the main reason for the small decline in consumer confidence. “Although 1-in-10 consumers, when asked to identify any recent economic developments they had heard, referred negatively to Greece, the Chinese economy, and the Trans-Pacific Partnership on trade, it had virtually no impact on the Sentiment Index,” Richard Curtin, chief economist at Surveys of Consumers, said in the report.
Chinese stocks posted their worst monthly loss in nearly six years after the Shanghai Composite index tumbled 13.4 percent for the month as investor confidence in a government-led recovery wavered. This marks the index's worst monthly performance since August 2009.
Russia's central bank cut its key interest rate again Friday, slashing it by 50 basis points to 11 percent. The move comes amid signs of renewed weakness in the ruble. The central bank is trying to tame the country's high inflation without pushing the economy into a deeper recession.
Exxon Mobil Corp. said its earnings plunged by more than half in the second quarter of 2015. The Irving, Texas oil giant Friday announced quarterly profits of $4.2 billion, down from $8.8 billion in the same period last year.
The slouch in global oil prices and cutbacks in oil and gas production and exploration drove the dampening of Exxon’s earnings. The oil-and-gas giant’s upstream business saw $2 billion in quarterly earnings, a 66 percent drop from the second quarter of 2014.
Downstream operations, which include refining and marketing, fared much better. Exxon reported second quarter earnings of $1.5 billion, a $795 million increase over the same period a year ago.
“Our quarterly results reflect the disparate impacts of the current commodity price environment,” Rex Tillerson, Exxon’s chairman and CEO, said in a statement ahead of a morning earnings conference call. However, the earnings “also demonstrate the strength of our sound operations, superior project execution capabilities, as well as continued discipline in capital and expense management.”
Exxon’s profit in the quarter fell to $1.00 per share, compared with $2.05 per share in April-June period last year. Total revenue fell to $74.11 billion from nearly $112 billion a year ago.
Wall Street analysts had expected Exxon to deliver quarterly earnings per share of $1.11 on $72.48 in revenue, according to estimates by Thomson Reuters, CNBC reported. Exxon shares fell in premarket trading following the announcement.
Exxon's stock fell 2 percent to $81.30 in early trading Friday.
Oil prices have plummeted in the past year, dropping more than 50 percent amid a surge in supplies and waning demand in China, Europe and emerging economies. Brent crude, the global benchmark, fell again Friday after the head of OPEC indicated the oil cartel would not slash production, exacerbating fears of a global oversupply.
Brent was down 70 cents at $52.61 a barrel Friday, Reuters reported. U.S. light crude fell 87 cents to $47.65 a barrel.
The price slump has similarly battered Exxon’s competitors in the global oil and gas market.
Royal Dutch Shell PLC said Thursday it will cut 6,500 jobs this year due to weaker oil prices. The company said it will also trim its 2015 capital investment by $7 billion and cut operating costs by $4 billion. “We have to be resilient in a world where oil prices remain low for some time, whilst keeping an eye on recovery,” Ben van Beurden, Shell’s CEO, said in a statement.
The Anglo-Dutch oil giant’s second quarter earnings were $3.4 billion, down 35 percent compared to last year.
On Tuesday, BP PLC posted a loss of more than $6 billion in its results for the second quarter of 2015. Tepid oil prices played a role, as did the $9.8 billion pretax charge BP agreed to pay the U.S. government for the 2010 Deepwater Horizon oil spill disaster in the Gulf of Mexico.
The Walt Disney Company has certainly had its share of troubles over the last three months. “Tomorrowland,” the big-budget flop released on May 22, could cost the company $140 million. ESPN, Disney’s hugely profitable sports juggernaut, lost 16 percent of its core demographic. Even “Frozen” fever, once expected to snowball forever, is finally starting to cool off.
Despite it all, however, Disney is expected to coast through its eighth consecutive quarter of double-digit profit growth when it reports third-quarter 2015 earnings on Tuesday, thanks to higher programming fees for its TV networks, strong attendance at its theme parks and the unrelenting hit-making capacity of its Marvel and Pixar movie units.
It’s all more proof -- not that investors needed it -- that the Mouse House may never run out of its trademark magic. The Burbank, California, media conglomerate is expected to book net income of $2.4 billion, or $1.42 per share, for the three-month period ended June 30. That’s an increase of 10.7 percent over the same period last year, when Disney reported net income of $2.25 billion, or $1.28 per share.
Disney’s revenue is expected to rise 6.1 percent to $13.22 billion, from $12.47 billion a year earlier, according to analysts polled by Thomson Reuters.
Disney-owned ESPN, which commands the highest affiliate fees on cable, struggled in the ratings during the second quarter. Photo: Reuters
The Sporting Life, And A Slow Death
Cable cord-cutting has slowed in recent quarters, but it’s now an established trend as more low-income households ditch their pay-TV subscriptions and younger consumers choose not to get cable to begin with. As the Wall Street Journal reported this month, ESPN lost about 3.2 million subscribers (a number disputed by some analysts) in a little over a year, according to data from Nielsen Media. This, combined with a general downward trend of television ratings, spells bad news for Disney, which derives about 25 percent of its operating profit from the sports powerhouse.
ESPN commands the highest affiliate fees on cable and has one of the largest audiences, but it is not impervious to challenges from streaming and on-demand services. At the same time, analysts say Disney, a master at producing premium, must-have content, is in a better position than most media companies to weather the storm of marketplace changes.
“If consumers churn off pay TV in favor of [subscription video on demand] services like Netflix or Amazon or Hulu, then content production would increase in importance,” Tim Nollen, an analyst with Macquarie Capital, said in a recent research note. “We would then especially prefer the deep, broad studios at the likes of Disney, Time Warner, Fox and CBS, which would have content to sell to alternative distributors.”
Cable challenges aside, the third quarter was a strong one for Disney’s flagship broadcast network. ABC was the lone outlier among its rivals, with a 10 percent increase in prime-time viewership for the key 18-49-year-old demographic. The boost came in part due to better-than-expected ratings for the NBA playoffs. Conversely, prime-time ratings for CBS, NBC and Fox saw declines of 7 percent, 14 percent and 17 percent, respectively.
Box-Office Power
Despite the disappointing performance of “Tomorrowland” -- Disney’s latest attempt to turn one of its theme-park attractions into a billion-dollar movie franchise -- the company’s Filmed Entertainment unit still enjoyed a stellar quarter at the box office. Marvel’s “Avengers: Age of Ultron” has taken in a domestic haul of $456.6 million since it was released on May 1, making it the second-highest-grossing film of the year behind Universal’s “Jurassic World.” The Pixar comedy “Inside Out,” released on June 19, took in another $324 million.
In fact, Hollywood is having a strong summer overall. Revenue from Disney releases is expected to grow 48 percent compared to the same period last year, according to an analysis of box-office data from media analyst Michael Nathanson.
Letting Go Of ‘Frozen’
The animated hit “Frozen,” released in 2013, was a cultural phenomenon felt across almost all of Disney’s divisions, but profits couldn’t snowball forever. “Frozen” merchandise, along with new arrivals for the “Avengers” franchise, continued to boost Disney’s Consumer Products unit in the third quarter, but with more “normalized growth,” as Nathanson said in a July 13 media preview. In addition, comparisons to last year were tough due to strong sales of Spider-Man toys following the release of Sony’s “The Amazing Spider-Man 2.”
Marci Ryvicker, an analyst with Wells Fargo, expects Consumer Products revenue to rise 7 percent to $965 million. “We reduced our licensing and retail estimates to 7 percent from 15 percent as we don’t think sales for Avengers were quite as strong as expected,” Ryvicker wrote in a research note last week.
Disney will report financial results on Tuesday at approximately 4:15 p.m. ET. A webcast with CEO Bob Iger is planned for 5:00 p.m. Watch the magic happen here.
Christopher Zara is a senior writer who covers media and culture. News tips?  Email me . Follow me on Twitter  @christopherzara .
Venezuela’s largest beer manufacturer Polar Bear shut down two of its breweries due to lack of imported barley and the involvement of its parent company Empresas Polar in a dispute with the government, the Associated Press reported Thursday. Venezuela currently faces chronic shortage of raw materials, which the businesses have blamed on the socialist government’s economic policies.
The beer-making subsidiary of the local food giant is planning to suspend operations at two of its six plants. While President Nicolas Maduro has blamed the company for hoarding goods, Empresas Polar has denied the allegations. 
The company's move comes as the government occupied its warehouse complex in the capital Caracas -- which is also used by Nestlé S.A. and PepsiCo Inc. -- late Wednesday, the Associated Press (AP) reported. The government defended its move of taking over the Caracas complex by saying that the land was needed to build new houses for the poor.
On Thursday, Polar condemned the occupation of the building and asked the government to reconsider its decision, arguing that the move disrupted the company’s supply chain in the capital. "We're not questioning the desire to build homes, which are so necessary, but we wonder why there is this need to disrupt active industrial facilities," Polar executive Manuel Felipe Larrazabal said, according to the AP.
Some of the 650 workers at the Polar facility held protests against the move, while supporters of the government staged a counter-protest outside the complex.
Andres Alegrett, a Nestlé spokesman, reportedly said that the company was informed by the facility’s owner about the area being taken over by the government and that it was finding new ways of distributing goods.
Polar is not only embroiled in a dispute with the Venezuelan government, but also its union members, who are demanding a hike in their pay. However, the company reportedly has the support of local residents in the clash with the government. "I want them to build, but not to drive Polar out. That's where a lot of my neighbors work," Luis Ignacio Moreno told the AP.
Earlier this month, the head of Venezuela's liquor store federation had warned that the country was about to run out of beer because the brewers have reached “zero hour.” He blamed the shortage of raw materials, and was later detained for unknown reasons.
Taxi hailing service Uber Technologies Inc. will invest an additional $1 billion in India over the next nine months as the company is bullish on the growing Indian market. Announcing the plans on Friday, the San Francisco-based company said that it would use the investment to improve operations in the country, expand its service into newer cities, and develop new products and payment solutions.
“We are extremely bullish on the Indian market and see tremendous potential here,” Amit Jain, president of Uber India, said in an emailed statement, according to Mint, a local business newspaper. “We have grown exponentially in India, a global priority market for us, that has also quickly become the largest market geographically for Uber outside the U.S.”
With the $1 billion investment, Uber is expected to compete more aggressively with local rival Ola, which recently bought its smaller opponent TaxiForSure in a $200 million deal. Ola is reportedly currently in talks to raise at least $500 million.
Uber, which launched its service in India in August 2013, said that the additional investment will help it reach more than 1 million trips a day in the next six to nine months. The company also expects to generate over 200,000 jobs in India by 2016.
Uber said that it is currently growing at a monthly rate of 40 percent in the Asian country, and is expected to grow at an even faster rate with more investments in product, hiring and payment solutions. According to the Financial Times, which first reported the investment, it was the first time the company had such a big strategy for the Indian market.
Uber currently operates in 57 countries and has an estimated value of more than $40 billion.
Update as of 7:30 a.m. EDT: A Malaysian official said Friday that a number stamped on the debris recovered from the island of Réunion in the Indian Ocean confirms it came from a Boeing 777.
"From the part number, it is confirmed that it is from a Boeing 777 aircraft. This information is from MAS (Malaysia Airlines). They have informed me," Deputy Transport Minister Abdul Aziz Kaprawi told Agence France-Presse.
Original story below:
Australian search authorities are “increasingly confident” that the debris found on the island of Réunion in the Indian Ocean is from the missing Malaysia Airlines Flight MH370, an official leading the search reportedly said Friday. The six-foot piece of wreckage has fueled hopes that one of aviation's greatest mysteries may finally be solved.
Martin Dolan, chief commissioner of the Australian Transport Safety Bureau (ATSB), which is leading the MH370 search, echoed the words of Malaysian Prime Minister Najib Razak on Thursday that the debris is “very likely” from a Boeing 777 aircraft, the same type as the missing jet. Dolan reportedly said that he is hoping for greater clarity “within the next 24 hours.” However, he also cautioned that no conclusion should be drawn unless there is enough evidence to link the debris with the plane.
"We are increasingly confident that this debris is from MH370," Dolan told Agence France-Presse (AFP). "The shape of the object looks very much like a very specific part associated only with 777 aircraft."
French authorities will send the debris to a military laboratory near Toulouse, France, for investigation, while a team of Malaysian investigators are expected to reach the Réunion Island, a French territory near Madagascar in Africa, on Friday.
The island is nearly 2,300 miles from the area in the southern Indian Ocean off Australia where search efforts for the missing Flight MH370 have been underway for over a year. Despite an international search, which has become the costliest in aviation history, no concrete clues have emerged that could provide long-awaited answers to the mystery of the plane's disappearance.
On Thursday, Australia described the latest development in the search for the missing plane "a major lead."
Since there are no other missing Boeing 777 planes, if the debris is confirmed to be from such an aircraft, it would be the first wreckage of the plane to have been found. Flight MH370 went missing on March 8, 2014, with 239 people on board while on its way from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing.
"I presume that if this wreckage does turn out to be from a Boeing 777 that the analysts will do their best ... to try to work out exactly where it came from," Australian Prime Minister Tony Abbott told Australian radio. "I don't know how accurate that will be but I dare say it will give us some more evidence and it might enable us to further refine the search area, it might."
The United States will deliver eight F-16 fighter jets to Egypt in an effort to help the country fight extremism and to bolster security in the region, according to a statement on Thursday from the U.S. Embassy in Cairo. The aircraft are part of a $1.3 billion plan to upgrade Egypt's military amid increased extremist threats.
The jets are being flown to Egypt and will become a part of the country's air force, which already features U.S.-made F-16 aircraft. "The F-16s provide a valuable capability that is needed during these times of regional instability," said U.S. Army Maj. Gen. Charles Hooper, the U.S. Embassy's senior defense official in Cairo. "America’s commitment to a strong relationship with Egypt is demonstrated by continued cooperation and capability-sharing between our two countries. Extremists threaten regional security and these weapon systems provide a new tool to help Egypt fight terrorism."
Egyptian forces have frequently battled with militants in the Sinai Peninsula region during July, including a rocket attack Saturday that killed a solider and injured five more, the Associated Press reported. The militant group Wilayat Sinai has pledged its allegiance to the Islamic State group and is growing in its abilities, the newspaper Hareetz reported. The group carried out its deadliest attacks in early July, with 17 soldiers and 100 militants killed during the fighting, the BBC reported.
Egypt is the second-largest recipient of military aid from the United States, receiving about 0.2 percent of all funding to foreign countries through the Foreign Military Funding program, Forbes reported. The United States ended a freeze on military aid to the country in late March, two years after delivery of equipment was halted because the Egyptian military had taken power in Cairo. The U.S. said it would send modern equipment that focused on counterterrorism.
"In this way, we will ensure that U.S. funding is being used to promote shared objectives in the region, including a secure and stable Egypt and the defeat of terrorist organizations," National Security Council spokeswoman Bernadette Meehan said in a statement, via Reuters.
 The United States will send four more F-16 fighter jets to Egypt in the fall and provide follow-up support for the country's air force, the embassy statement said. 
PETA became a shareholder of Hermès International (EPA:RMS) this week in a move to put pressure on the luxury fashion house to end its sale of alligator and crocodile skins, which are made into watch straps and bags.
PETA reportedly bought a single share in the French fashion house on the Paris Bourse (stock exchange) so that its representatives can "attend and ask questions at the company's annual meeting,” a spokesperson told Vogue, explaining the move would permit PETA's representatives to “put pressure on the company to end its sale of exotic-animal skins."
This isn’t the first time PETA -- People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals -- has purchased shares to put pressure on a company. In 2013, PETA bought stock in SeaWorld's IPO to pressure the amusement park chain to free its "enslaved" killer whales. PETA invested in SeaWorld Entertainment Inc. (NYSE:SEAS) for a second time in 2014 after shares tumbled in an attempt to gain control within the company, buying an additional 55 shares and  bringing their ownership to a total of 135 shares.
Tell us! What would YOU rather do than go to #SeaWorld?! #OrcaWeek pic.twitter.com/23wmX8zBVL
&mdash; PETA (@peta) July 29, 2015
The group's most recent move comes after 68-year-old former supermodel, actress and singer Jane Birkin requested Tuesday that Hermès remove her name from its famous Birkin bag after PETA presented her with evidence allegedly showing "cruel practices endured by crocodiles during their slaughter for the production of Hermès bags," Birkin said in a statement, according to Agence France-Presse.
The Birkin bag was made for and named after Birkin in the 1980s. Hermès responded Wednesday after Birkin has expressed her concerns, saying her comments “do not in any way influence the friendship and confidence that we have shared for many years," the company said in a statement. "Hermès respects and shares her emotions and was also shocked by the images recently broadcast."
Birkin’s comments came after a PETA report claimed to have a video showing the slaughtering of crocodiles for Hermès Birkin bags in factory farms in Texas and Zimbabwe.

"PETA's investigation revealed that the grisly source of Hermès accessories are living, feeling animals, some of whom were painfully mutilated and left to die," PETA Executive Vice President Tracy Reiman said in a statement Thursday. "PETA will be campaigning outside the company and, as a shareholder, also working from the inside to demand a ban on exotic animal–skin accessories, including crocodile-skin bags and alligator-skin watchbands."
The France-based company, which specializes in the design, manufacturing, and marketing of luxury products, is scheduled to hold its next annual shareholder meeting in June 2016.
Hermès has denied that the crocodile farms belongs to them or that the skins harvested there are used to make their Birkin bags. “An investigation is underway at the Texas farm that was implicated in the video. Any breach of rules will be rectified and sanctioned,” Hermès said.
Shares of Hermès have gained more than 33 percent in the last 12 months. 
Shares of Hermes International SCA have gained more than 30 percent in the last 12 months.  Photo: Reuters Eikon
Good news for job hunters: Unemployment is expected to continue its steady decline in the coming months. The national unemployment rate will fall from 5.3 percent to 5.2 percent in July and reach 4.7 percent in December, according to projections from Regis Barnichon, an economist at the Barcelona Graduate School of Economics.
That’s consistent with the slow but steady pace of the economic recovery. Last July, the unemployment rate stood nearly a percentage point higher than it is today, and in July 2013 it was two percentage points above the current rate. Unemployment peaked at 10 percent during the recession, in October 2009.
Some key indicators suggest an improving labor market.
Earlier this month, the number of Americans filing initial applications for unemployment insurance hit a 42-year low. Meanwhile, 223,000 Americans found work last month, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, and payroll processor ADP said that companies added 237,000 jobs in June, the most since December. The federal government’s July jobs report -- to be released next Friday -- is expected to show further payroll growth. The economy has added nearly 3 million jobs in the past year.
However, some significant signs of weakness persist. Wage growth remains effectively stagnant, with average hourly earnings inching up by a meager 2 percent over the last year. At the same time, labor force participation remains historically low. Last month’s figure -- 62.6 percent -- was the lowest the number has been since 1977. The large numbers of Americans who have given up looking for work altogether have helped drive the declining unemployment rate.
Modest wage increases in the private sector and minimum pay hikes on the city and state levels have generated attention. At the same time, they aren’t expected to leave any substantial mark on national employment figures or wage growth just yet.
NEW HYDE PARK, New York -- Helen Panajoti welcomed  Dr. Joseph Milano  into her living room where her 89-year-old husband, Peter, waited in a wheelchair. Milano was there to check up on Peter’s progress after a nasty fall that Helen says was "his fault.”
But recovering from the fall was only the first of his problems -- Peter also suffers from diabetes and chronic compression of the spinal cord, called spinal stenosis, which causes muscle weakness. Plus, only about half of his heart is functional.
Peter seemed to take little interest in the discussion between his wife and the doctor, though. Instead, he made a simple request -- some earwax had built up in his ears and he wanted Milano to get it out.
After a five-minute cleaning, Peter said he could hear much more clearly. He smiled his wide signature grin while Helen consulted with Milano about the medications she administered daily to keep all his other problems in check.
“If we didn’t get the help we’ve been getting, I think he’d be in a nursing home,” Helen says.
Peter Panajoti is 89 years old and still lives with his wife in New Hyde Park, N.Y. Panajoti is part of a nationwide Medicare demonstration program called Independence at Home which aims to reduce healthcare costs by sending doctors and nurses to treat elderly patients in their own homes. Photo: Amy Nordrum
Benefits For Patients - And Taxpayers
Though it sounds like a quaint scene from a bygone era when physicians regularly made house calls, Milano’s visit with the Panajotis last week is part of a long-running program at the  North Shore-Long Island Jewish Medical Center. The program is a model for a much broader, national initiative that would send physicians on home visits to elderly patients based on the idea that doing so boosts patients’ health, improves quality of life and saves taxpayers money.
As administrators of the nation’s largest health insurance program, Medicare officials are particularly interested in the concept. Medicare covers  55 million people  who are at least 65 years old, and the number of Americans eligible for the program is expected to  grow to 72.1 million by 2030. Three years ago, Medicare launched a pilot program to test whether doctors and nurses who spent an hour in a patient’s home asking basic questions about medications, loneliness and diet and exercise might provide better and cheaper care than hospitals or nursing homes.
Following a legislative directive in the Affordable Care Act, Medicare launched a program called  Independence at Home  that enlisted 17 hospitals to send physicians, nurses and social workers to visit elderly patients such as Peter, who was part of that demonstration. Upon arrival, the healthcare team performs simple tasks such as adjusting patients’ medications and recording their blood pressure to head off any medical emergencies from occurring later.
In the program's first year, healthcare professionals who treated 8,400 patients in their homes created $25 million in savings for Medicare – or $3,070 per patient. The  American Academy of Home Care Medicine, which advocated for the demonstration, estimates that 1.5 million Americans would be eligible for the program if it were rolled out nationwide, for a cost savings of $4.5 billion a year or $45 billion over 10 years.
The program addresses what some critics have said is a missing component of Obamacare. That is, an effort to rein in costs. The rate of Medicare spending per capita  is expected to grow  from about 1 percent between 2010 and 2014 to about 4.1 percent through 2024. Medicare spending accounts for  14 percent of the federal budget and one-fourth of the program’s total expenditures go toward hospital services.
While the value of home-based care seems evident to many patients and their families, health policy experts say a large-scale demonstration is essential to test the assumption that providing these services will keep people out of hospitals, and actually save money.
There’s good reason to suspect it will. AARP compiled  38 studies  between 2005 and 2012 that found states that had expanded home services saw slower growth in healthcare-related expenses. In Arkansas, a program that connected 919 seniors at risk of entering a nursing home to services that helped them stay in their own homes saved $2.6 million, which cut government spending by 24 percent for those participants. A Maryland evaluation showed that the cost for patients who transitioned to community care after being in a facility dropped from $9,114 to $5,957 per month, and those patients reported a higher quality of life. However, none of those studies demonstrated results on the scale that Medicare would require.
The pilot program focused on helping Medicare cut back on a particularly costly trend: About 30 percent  of payments are spent on treating just 5 percent of enrollees. For that reason, patients who enrolled had to have three or more chronic illnesses and have been hospitalized at least once in the past year.
Patients certainly seem to prefer this approach. At the nearby home of 92-year-old Josephine Milmoe, Milano detects slight changes in her heart rate and rhythm. He orders an electrocardiogram to be conducted at her home the following week.
Milano asks what she thinks about taking another medication for her heart.
“Well, whatever you think -- as long as I can stay in my home and don’t have to travel anywhere,” she says.
Josephine Milmoe speaks with Dr. Joseph Milano in her home about making an adjustment to her medications. Though she still takes a walk every afternoon with a home health aide and a neighbor drives her to church on Sundays, Milmoe is most comfortable at home. Photo: Amy Nordrum
The facilities in Medicare's pilot program also lowered rates of hospitalization and showed a decrease in patients’ reliance on emergency services during the demonstration, but Medicare did not reveal by how much these rates were reduced in the first year.
Reducing End-of-Life Costs
By visiting patients in their homes, Milano is also poised to help both patients and their family members understand options for care as they reach the end of life, which is some of the costliest care a person ever receives. Currently, about  28 percent  of the money Medicare spends is paid out in the final six months of patients’ lives.
Milano estimates that he has had 1,500 end-of-life discussions with patients and family members over his years of practice. During nearly every visit, he reviews advanced directives with patients to dictate their preferences for resuscitation, life support or invasive procedures.
Eva Wagan has been caring for her 91-year-old mother, Lucita, for the past 15 years. Lucita is paralyzed at the waist and has end-stage kidney failure so must be transported to a dialysis center three times a week for treatment. The strain of those transports has caused her to suffer two broken hips, which have never healed.
At her bedside, Milano asks Lucita to make a muscle with her forearm. She does. He asks, "How do you feel right now?"
"I feel okay," she responds, with a few deep breaths and a faint sigh.
Lucita Wagan reacts to Dr. Milano's presence at her daughter's home in New Hyde Park, N.Y.  Photo: Amy Nordrum
Lucita's family is reluctant to stop dialysis because she would pass away within days or a week after her final treatment. But it's clear that her loved ones know death is imminent, and also don't want to cause her undue suffering.
Back in the living room, Wagan sits down across from Milano and asks a simple question: Will my mother be alive in a year?
Milano pauses for a moment before he speaks, gently and frankly.
"If you were to ask, 'Would I be surprised if my patient were to die within a year?' I would not be surprised," he says. "If you were to ask  would I be surprised if my patient were to die within six months? I would probably also not be surprised."
As he leaves, Wagan says she's grateful for the service and comfort that Milano provides in her home.
"When he talks to me, I feel like he's my brother," she says. "He treats Mom like his own mom."
Scaling Up
Based on the first year's results, Congress recently approved a two-year extension of the Medicare demonstration, which President Obama is expected to approve.
“We're delighted it's going to be extended,” Constance Row, executive director of the American Academy of Home Care Medicine, says. “We hope it will become a Medicare benefit because there are so many elderly who need this service who aren't getting it.”
Secretary of Health and Human Services Sylvia Burwell announced in March  that Medicare hopes to transition 85 percent of traditional fee-for-service payments to a model that considers quality of patient care by 2016. If the results of home-based care can be demonstrated more widely, the system will be better poised to favor such care over hospitals.
Gail Wilensky, former director of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, says the demonstration is “promising but quite limited in its numbers and scope.” She says it’s important to wait for year two and three results, and the program must be expanded to more communities and patients in order to make an informed determination as to whether it can be successfully applied across the country.
Kavita Patel also has concerns. The health economist at Brookings Institution says it’s difficult to say that the program would save money nationwide because some facilities in the demonstration had high start-up costs in the first year. Eight out of 19 programs did not qualify for reimbursement in the first year because they  failed to show  the necessary savings.
“There's an assumption that doing this will save Medicare money in the long run. It's not clear if that's the case,” she says.
It’s difficult to quantify much of the care that Milano provides, even in a nationwide demonstration. Much of the service he offers may not save patients a trip to the hospital, but it still makes a difference in their lives.
Raffaele Cursio turned 106 years old on July 19. Though his wife passed away more than 30 years ago, he is still able to live at home with the help of an aide.  Photo: Amy Nordrum
Raffaele Cursio turned 106 this month and still lives at home with a live-in aide, Nora. He seemed distressed upon seeing Milano in his living room. Nora interjected and told Milano that lately the milk Cursio drinks at breakfast has started to leak out through his nose.
Milano asked him to sip a glass of water and watched his technique. He observed that if Cursio bent forward instead of tipping his head back, it may open up his esophagus and make it easier to drink. He also put in a request for a specialist to visit Cursio and conduct a swallowing evaluation.
“I feel a lift," Cursio said as Milano waved goodbye.
After years of lawsuits against a Chinese imitator appropriating his name and brand, Michael Jordan, the former Chicago Bulls player widely hailed as one of the best basketball players of all time, lost a trademark suit to Qiaodan Sports in China's highest court on Thursday after numerous appeals. Jordan first sued the company, which is based in the southeastern Fujian province, in 2012 for using his Chinese name, his number as a player, 23, and a silhouette logo similar to the "Jumpman" used by Nike to deceive Chinese consumers into purchasing sportswear that appeared to be endorsed by the basketball player. 
 
Why Michael Jordan&#39;s lawsuit against Chinese company #Qiaodan is important: http://t.co/DP8lqJHIX3 #AirJordan #China #SinoUS
&mdash; Charlie Shifflett (@wcshifflett) April 30, 2013
 
China's Supreme Court in Beijing dismissed the trademark suit against Qiaodan under the grounds that there was insufficient evidence to conclude that the sportswear company's trademarks referred to the six-time NBA champion. Qiaodan (乔丹), pronounced "chee-ow dahn" is the transliteration of "Jordan" in Mandarin that has been used to reference the basketball player since he began playing in the NBA in the 1980's, according to Jordan's legal team in an online statement. 
 
Package came today, can&#39;t wait to wear these this season #china #qiaodan pic.twitter.com/IbHnLLrwZd
&mdash; chuck hayes (@c_hayes44) July 31, 2014

 
After two court decisions ruled in favor of Qiaodan, Jordan appealed to the Beijing court, which reaffirmed the original decision in the verdict published in Chinese media and translated by Quartz. It read: “'Qiaodan'” is not the only name that corresponds to 'Jordan,' and 'Jordan' is only an ordinary surname of American people, not a full name. So the current evidence is not enough to prove that 'Qiaodan' determinedly points to Michael Jordan. The image of the disputed trademark is a human body in a shadowy design, which does not clearly reflect the major appearances of the figure. It is hard for the relevant public to recognize the image as Michael Jordan."
While Jordan lost his suit asking Qiaodan Sports to deregister multiple trademarks, his legal team prevented the company from an IPO in 2013, and the publicity from the case made Qiaodan known as a knockoff, according to Quartz.
China has been frequently criticized for its lenient enforcement of international intellectual property laws, while is recognized to protect domestic counterfeiters. The nation has remained on the U.S. Priority Watch List of trading partners that fail to protect intellectual property rights "despite certain improvements," reported Agence-France-Presse.
U.S. stocks mostly declined in midday trading Thursday after new data revealed that the economy grew at a slightly slower pace than expected in the second-quarter. The report comes a day after the U.S. Federal Reserve left interest rates at historic lows as it prepares lift rates for the first time in nearly a decade. The Fed's rate adjustment could come as soon as its scheduled meeting September 16 and 17. 
The Dow Jones Industrial Average (INDEXDJX:.DJI) edged down 5.98 points, or 0.03 percent, to 17,745.41. The S&P 500 index (INDEXSP:.INX) dipped 1.54 points, or 0.07 percent, to 2,106.99. However, the Nasdaq composite (INDEXNASDAQ:.IXIC) edged up 7.77 points, or 0.15 percent, to 5,119.43.
Seven out of the 10 Standard & Poor's 500 sectors traded lower, led by declines in healthcare and energy. Dow component Procter & Gamble Co. (NYSE:PG) led the index lower, falling 3.5 percent, while United Technologies Corporation (NYSE:UTX) experienced the largest gains, up more than 1 percent.
Although the U.S. economy grew somewhat slower than expected last quarter, there was a bright spot: the Commerce Department said first quarter GDP was revised upward to growth rate of 0.6 percent, reversing previous estimates that showed the economy shrinking in the January-March period.
Most market experts view the report as positive and consistent with an economy that is showing modest growth. “The figure was modestly below expectations, but it still reflects growth and provides evidence for the Federal Reserve to raise interest rates come September, should they choose, or in December,” said Terry Sandven, chief equity strategist at U.S. Bank Wealth Management.
However, some experts view the report as a mixed bag. Although this year looks stronger than it did before the revision, the past three years from 2012-2014, the economy was weaker than previously thought. With more slack in the economy than previously thought, that could prevent the Fed from raising rates in September, says John Canally, Investment Strategist and Economist for LPL Financial.
“I’d be surprised if they raises rates in September because they just haven’t prepared us very well, and there’s nothing to prepare us between now and then,” Canally said, referring to the central bank’s monetary policy statement on Wednesday, which was the last statement scheduled before the Fed’s next meeting in September.
The Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC), a board of governors at the Federal Reserve that determines the direction of monetary policy, did not specifically indicate when an increase in the federal funds rate is coming this year in its statement Wednesday.
Separately, the number of Americans filing new claims for unemployment increased 12,000 to a seasonally adjusted 267,000 for the week ended July 25, the Labor Department said Thursday. The report comes a week after claims tumbled to a nearly 42-year low last week as fewer Americans filed new applications for unemployment benefits for the week ended July 18.
Economists had forecast that jobless claims last week rose by 15,000 to 270,000, according to analysts polled by Thomson Reuters.
In the week ending July 25, the advance figure for seasonally adjusted initial claims was 267,000, an increase of 12,000 from the previous week's unrevised level of 255,000.  Photo: Labor Department
Halfway through second quarter earnings season, with 264 S&P 500 companies reporting, earnings per share growth currently stands at declining 0.3 percent, still negative but an improvement from the prior estimate for a decline of 3.7 percent forecast before Alcoa reported on July 8, according to Estimize.
Notable companies reporting after the closing bell Thursday include professional networking company LinkedIn Corp. (NYSE:LNKD).
Shares of Whole Foods Market Inc. (NASDAQ:WFM) plunged 12 percent Thursday, a day after the organic foods retailer announced sales cooled last quarter after the company fell “victim” to overcharging allegations. 
Meanwhile, shares of Facebook Inc. (NASDAQ:FB) dipped 4 percent Thursday, despite the social media giant beating Wall Street forecasts on earnings and revenue this week. Investors were disappointed by a sharp 82 percent jump in expenses as the company invested in growth, which cut into its earnings.
Shares of Facebook have soared 30 percent in the last 12 months.
Struggling to unify his splintering Syriza party, Greek Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras said he would not be bullied any further on austerity measures and called for a partywide vote  Sunday on whether Greece would be better off without help from European rescue loans. Stuck between a leftist government that wants fewer austerity measures and European lenders that want more, Tsipras said Wednesday that he would not implement additional reforms such as further cuts to the budget or pensions.
The goal of the vote was unclear as a new bailout package was approved by Greek Parliament last Thursday with significant support from parties opposed to Syriza, passing with a 260-63 vote. Reversing a decisive 61 percent "no" vote on further austerity measures in a referendum held on July 5, Tsipras supported the bailout that accepted 86 billion euros, or approximately $94 billion, in exchange for even stricter austerity measures such as hiking up taxes, overhauling the Greek banking system and slashing social spending.
Tensions within the party were heightened when former finance minister Yanis Varoufakis revealed that he, along with other members of Syriza, had been preparing a secret back-up economic plan that included a return to Greece's former currency, the drachma.
Yanis Varoufakis, former Greek finance minister, had been plotting a secret back-up financial plan that included a return to Greece's former drachma currency. His defection highlighted widening rifts in Tsipras' Syriza party. Photo: AFP/Getty Images
 The Greek debt crisis has not only caused difficult living conditions for Greeks, including sky-high unemployment rates and capital controls, but it has also sunk the euro and damaged financial systems in all of Europe. The money for bailout funds for Greece is coming predominantly from other European governments who want to see enormous change in the Greek financial system and have been pushing for reforms that go beyond what was agreed upon in the most recent bailout deal.
"I know well the framework of the deal we signed at the euro zone summit on July 12," Tsipras told Sto Kokkino radio, as reported by Reuters. "We will implement these commitments, irrespective of whether we agree with it or not. Nothing beyond that."
The widening rift between Tsipras and members of Syriza who said he has betrayed their socialist, leftist roots may cause Tsipras to call for an early general election vote. That election could take place as early as September.
The International Monetary Fund (IMF) has determined it cannot offer funding toward a third bailout for Greece, citing astronomical levels of debt and a poor record of government follow-through on reforms.
The evaluation, reported by Financial Times on Thursday, throws the Europewide political effort to save financially troubled Greece into doubt. Influential German officials have made clear that no bailout would be possible without IMF participation. Without a bailout, Greece faces the prospect of having to exit the eurozone, a prospect that commentators have called the Grexit. 
While the IMF will continue to participate in bailout talks currently taking place in Athens, Greece, it will be months before the lender will be able to agree to a new program. IMF bylaws stipulate that the institution cannot make loans when the country receiving them lacks the capacity to make reforms or can't sustain its debt. 
According to documents obtained by Financial Times, IMF determined that Greece failed to meet either of those expectations. A previous IMF paper called Greece's debt "highly unsustainable."  
In order to receive its third bailout in five years, this time projected at around $94 billion, Greece would need approval from the three institutions that make up the so-called troika: the European Union's governing body, the European Central Bank and the IMF.
IMF chief Christine Lagarde has previously made clear that no deal is possible without deep debt relief, potentially in the form of a write-down of Greece's liabilities. That stance clashes with that of Germany, the largest economic power in the eurozone, whose finance minister Wolfgang Schäuble has consistently demanded that Greece's overall debt remain intact.
But as Greece's former finance minister Yanis Varoufakis has said, the IMF and Schäuble may indeed share a common view: "They don’t want this deal to go ahead." 
Still, negotiators face a hard Aug. 20 deadline to hammer out some form of financing that will keep Greek banks and businesses open until the country can make an economic turnaround. In late June, the European Central Bank capped its financing to Greece, forcing Athens to close its central bank and sending the country's economy into a tailspin.
The political situation in Greece, meanwhile, offers scant comfort to creditors. Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras faces internal opposition within his left-wing Syriza party, which came to power in January on an anti-austerity platform. After six months of brinksmanship and political provocation, Tsipras accepted austerity-inducing reforms earlier this month, leading to a raft of resignations from the radical wing of the party. 
That instability, together with the sheer size of Greece's existing debt, has made IMF member states wary of launching into another bailout. According to the board meeting minutes acquired by Financial Times, non-European board members stressed the need for Lagarde to "protect the reputation of the Fund."
Shares of Whole Foods Market Inc. (NASDAQ:WFM) plunged 12 percent Thursday, a day after the organic foods retailer announced sales cooled last quarter after the company fell “victim” to overcharging allegations. An investigation found several stores were overcharging customers for food, resulting in overcharges of 80 cents to nearly $15 per package, according to officials.
In morning trading, Whole Foods' stock tumbled 12 percent to a 52-week low of $35.82.
The New York City Department of Consumer Affairs (DCA) in June released the results of its ongoing investigation that found the high-end grocer routinely overcharged customers by overstating the contents of prepackaged foods. The negative publicity weighed on sales in the final two weeks of the quarter.
“It's just something that went viral in the media, and it has hurt our trust and yet, we do feel like we're victims,” John Mackey, co-chief executive officer & director, said during an earnings call with shareholders Wednesday.
“We don't know exactly why the DCA went after Whole Foods like this, and we're not sure why the media went crazy with it, but it did happen. We are taking steps to not give cause for this in the future,” Mackey added.
S&P Capital IQ cut its 12-month price target on Whole Foods stock by $5 to $42, driven lower by heightened competition and poor visibility regarding the launch of its new store format planned for 2016. At the same time, S&P maintained its Hold rating on the company.
“Despite benefits from a strong balance sheet and high square footage growth, we see sales growth over next 12-months pressured by competition, cannibalization and recent pricing missteps,” Joseph Agnese, equity analyst at S&P Capital IQ, said in a research note Thursday.
Shares of Whole Foods have lost more than 20 percent so far this year.
The Austin, Texas-based company, which has a market value of $14.6 billion, reported a fiscal third-quarter profit of $154 million, or 43 cents per share, on revenue of $3.4 billion, compared with a profit of $151 million, or 41 cents per share, on sales of $3.6 billion a year ago.
Wall Street had expected the company to turn in earnings of 45 cents a share on $3.69 billion in revenue, according to analysts polled by Thomson Reuters.
Meanwhile, the company’s same store-sales, which compares the sales of stores that have been open for at least one year, rose 1.3 percent in the quarter, well below expectations of a 2.8 percent increase, according to estimates from Consensus Metrix.
To combat growing competition, the company announced last quarter plans to open a new chain targeted toward millennials, beginning next year. During the earnings call Wednesday, the company said the new stores will be called "365 by Whole Foods Market," which the grocer anticipates will expand its growth opportunity beyond its current 1,200 stores.
Whole Foods expects to open five 365 stores in the second half of next year, with the expectation of doubling that number of openings in 2017. The company, which currently has 424 stores, has opened two new locations during the current quarter and plans to open eight new stores, including one relocation.
For the current quarter, Whole Foods forecasts sales growth of 7 percent, on earnings per share of 34 to 35 cents in the fiscal fourth quarter, below analysts' estimates of 38 cents, according to Thomson Reuters' data. 
Months after then-Secretary of State Hillary Clinton helped resolve a diplomatic dispute with Switzerland over thousands of tax-evading American accounts held at UBS, the Swiss bank made a sizable investment in Clinton Foundation initiatives. In the years that followed, the bank would pay former President Bill Clinton a total of $1.5 million in speaking fees.
The peculiar timing of the events, reported by the Wall Street Journal, raises fresh questions around the confluence of nonprofit donations and political affairs as Hillary Clinton seeks the Democratic Party's 2016 presidential nomination.
There is no direct evidence that the prospect of future foundation contributions or speaking gigs influenced Clinton’s dealings with the Swiss government. Representatives of the Clinton Foundation, UBS and Switzerland -- speaking to the Journal -- each denied any untoward dealings.
The story began in 2009, when the U.S. Justice Department reached a settlement with UBS over a wide-ranging scheme to assist wealthy Americans in avoiding domestic taxes by parking their cash in sham entities set up with the help of the bank. “This was not a mere compliance oversight, but rather a knowing crime motivated by greed and disrespect of the law," R. Alexander Acosta, U.S. attorney for the Southern District of Florida, said at the time.
To resolve charges of defrauding the United States, UBS paid $780 million, agreed to quit abetting tax-evaders and handed over the names of 250 account holders.
But the IRS wanted more. UBS housed more than 52,000 American accounts, which prosecutors estimated held some $18 billion in untaxed cash. The bank, reluctant to turn over the whole list of names, suggested that the matter be resolved through diplomacy.
Bill Clinton amassed $1.5 million in speaking fees from Swiss bank UBS. Photo: Reuters/Mike Stone
That’s where Clinton and the State Department came in. Months after the February 2009 settlement, Clinton embarked on a series of meetings with Swiss diplomats over the dispute. Other bargaining chips soon emerged: Among other things, Clinton wanted the Swiss government to take in Guantanamo Bay detainees and help free an American journalist detained in Iran.
In August 2009, the two sides reached a deal. UBS would turn over 4,450 names -- less than 10 percent of the 52,000 the IRS had sought. The State Department didn’t negotiate the finer points of the deal, but did advise the Justice Department against taking a hard line, John DiCicco, the top Justice Department tax lawyer on the case, told the Journal.
Soon thereafter, UBS increased its donations to the Clinton Foundation. In early 2010, the bank joined the nonprofit in an entrepreneurship program called the Clinton Economic Opportunity Initiative. In 2011 UBS donated $350,000 to the initiative.
Speaking fees rolled in as well. UBS tapped Bill Clinton for 11 speaking gigs, paying him $1.5 million and making the bank the largest single disclosed source of corporate speaking income for the former president.
Though there’s no indication of a direct quid pro quo between the bank and the Clinton family, the coincidence of donations, speaking fees and political dealings fits a pattern that critics have asserted represents a conflict of interest. Given the Clinton Foundation’s lengthy donor list and the expansive activities of the State Department under Hillary Clinton, it’s unlikely those concerns will die down before the 2016 presidential contest is over.
Etsy has done some renaming, reorganizing and rewriting. The online craft marketplace updated the language of its terms of service and added new legal policies, the Brooklyn, New York company announced in a blog post and email to users Wednesday.
Among the changes, Etsy (NASDAQ:ETSY) introduced a new section of the site called "Our House Rules," which divides the legal policies for the buyers, sellers and third-party developers. Each of these sections has been rewritten on more plain language but have not been significantly altered. For example, the Terms of Use now refers to "user content" as "your content." 
The update comes ahead of tumultous market time for Etsy. Etsy missed the expected earnings on its first-quarter results in May. Etsy's stock fell to 18 percent in after-hours trading after the May announcement and dropped to 23 percent the day after. That plunge led to the company losing about half of its value since going public in April. 
The global site, with 1.4 million active sellers and 20.8 million active buyers as of May 2015, is now looking to gain the praise from the Wall Street investors it three months ago failed to impress. Etsy will announce its second-quarter earnings report on Aug. 4.
Etsy altered  some policies such as adjusting the contracts of Etsy sellers. Sellers and buyers living in North America and South America will continue having contracts with Etsy, Inc., based in Brooklyn, New York. But now, a user in living in any other country with contract through Etsy Ireland, a company subsidiary.
"You won’t notice any difference in our services," Etsy attorney Hissan Bajwa wrote in the blog update. "We made this change to reflect the international nature of our business." 
Ertsy also translated their policies into French, German, Italian, Spanish and Dutch.  
Etsy added policy sections to explain members' rights, including a "Requests for Information Policy" and a "Direct Checkout Policy. "Etsy aims to be transparent and mindful as we reimagine commerce to build a more fulfilling and lasting world," the update reads. However, Etsy clarifies that the company "reserves the right to deviate from these practices at any time."
The U.S. economy rebounded in the second quarter, bouncing back after labor disputes at West Coast shipping ports led to lackluster growth in the first three months of the year. U.S. gross domestic product, the broadest measure of goods and services produced across the economy, grew at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 2.3 percent in the April-June quarter, the Commerce Department said in its preliminary estimate Thursday.
Economists had forecast the U.S. economy grew at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 2.6 percent in the second quarter, according to analysts polled by Thomson Reuters.
The Commerce Department said first quarter GDP was revised upward to growth rate of 0.6 percent, reversing previous estimates that showed the economy shrinking in the Jan.-March period.
Economists expect the economy will continue to accelerate in the second half of the year, driven by consumer spending and business investment, said Luke Tilley, chief economist at Wilmington Trust. Tilley forecasts the U.S. economy will grow at an annual rate of 3.5 percent in the third and fourth quarters.
The Commerce Department’s most recent report on U.S. consumer spending, which accounts for nearly two-thirds of U.S. economic activity, revealed Americans boosted their spending in May at the fastest rate in nearly six years. Consumer spending rose 0.9 percent in May from a month earlier, the biggest jump since August 2009. This comes after harsh winter weather weighed on some parts of the Northeast, which negatively affected retail businesses.
The first-quarter number was distorted by the unwinding of a backlog of exports and imports at West Coast ports. The cold winter also played a role in the slowdown, economists say.  The West Coast port slowdown had a dramatic impact on shipping because as dockworkers and their employers negotiated a new contract, the disruptions prevented manufacturers from receiving inventories on time, slowing production.
The central bank left interest rates unchanged Wednesday. However, a notable omission from the statement was any reference to Greece’s debt crisis, or to slower growth and the recent big stock market declines in China, indicating the central bank does not view either as major threats to the U.S. economy.
“The lack of mention of China or Greece in the statement is expected because those are expected to be transitory issues,” Tilley said. “The Fed is going to be making policy based on how the U.S. economy is performing.”
The Federal Reserve released its forecasts for the U.S. economy over the next three years last month. Fed officials did revise down their projections for gross domestic product growth this year to between 1.8 percent and 2 percent, from 2.3 percent to 2.7 percent.
Most economists say this likely signals the Fed is on course to raise rates as soon as the central bank’s next meeting on Sept. 16-17 meeting, assuming the labor market continues to improve and inflation continues to move higher.
MACAU -- The locals call it “The Fish Bowl,” but its attractions are not of the aquatic variety. A circular shopping center, located in the basement of one of Macau's largest casinos, the Bowl is famous as a spot where prostitutes walk in laps, waiting for customers to spill out of the casino upstairs to “reel them in.”
It is by no means an isolated example of vice in the former Portuguese colony and current Chinese special administrative region, where visitors with money can roll the dice on a casino floor, or sample the delights of the multitude of escorts whose services are advertised on cards left throughout tourist areas.
But if the governments of China and Macau have their way, Macau will be the next family vacation destination in Asia.
The cause of this about-turn is not hard to fathom. The backbone of Macau’s casino business -- VIP gaming revenue -- has fallen off a cliff in the last 18 months, falling almost two-thirds according to one analyst International Business Times spoke to. This change has been driven by an anti-corruption crackdown in China which is targeting the high-rollers and government officials that formerly made running a casino in Macau such a profitable enterprise.
Macau’s government hopes to plug the considerable hole in its revenues by attracting mass-market tourists.
Following a new ruling that makes future table allocation -- the number of gaming tables individual casinos are allowed to operate -- contingent on investment in non-gaming amenities, hotels and casino operators have been doubling down on family-friendly tourist attractions.
The Galaxy Phase II and Broadway at Galaxy resorts, which opened their doors in May, boast the world's largest wave pool and rooftop aquatic ride, as well as three hotels including an all-suite Ritz-Carlton, the largest JW Marriott in all of Asia and the Broadway hotel.
Hot on Galaxy's heels will be Melco Crown's Hollywood-themed Studio City complex, opening later this year, which will boast a figure eight-shaped ferris wheel, a magic theater, jungle river and Batman rides, as well as a branch of Ibiza nightclub franchise Pacha. The complex has already reportedly shelled out millions to secure Hollywood stars  Robert De Niro and Leonardo DiCaprio  to star in a Martin Scorsese-directed advertisement.
Performers take part in a show "The House of Dancing Water" at the City of Dreams resort in Macau September 15, 2010. The show is probably the territory's most high-profile non-gaming commercial attraction. Photo: Reuters
Investors and hotel managers are hopeful the gamble will pay off. “There's a demand for people to go on vacation. In the past, in some destinations like Macau, gaming is the only thing you would go for, now you'll find families that will go to Macau,” Craig Smith, President & Managing Director for Asia/Pacific at Marriott International Inc., which has two hotels in the Galaxy Phase II complex, told IBTimes.
“In Macau you're right next to China, you're in a great location,” he said.
But swimming pools and Batman rides might not be enough to lure the family crowds. In the past, Macau's limited efforts to offer visitors a wider non-gaming offering have stumbled. “Zaia,” a show at the Venetian resort and casino, and a flagship of the territory's non-gaming attractions, closed its doors after three and a half years in its purpose-built theatre, amid consistently low attendance figures.
In order to avoid the same fate, Macau will have to alter one key aspect of consumer behavior -- how long visitors spend in the territory. A report from analysts CSLA found that in 2014, the average visitor to Macau stayed 1.8 nights,  compared to Las Vegas' 3.2  , meaning that current visitors are not staying long enough to do much else other than gamble.
And while some of Macau's big players, like Las Vegas Sands chief Sheldon Adelson, believe that "supply will create demand  ," analysts IBTimes spoke to still expressed concerns about the challenges for the territory in shaking off its existing brand.
“I think Macau still isn't really seen as a holiday destination for families,” said Marcus Liu, a Hong Kong-based investment analyst with CSLA. “Macau is very much an adult-orientated environment now -- largely because the only thing really to do in Macau now is gamble."
“I think when they bring out non-gaming amenities, they will have to rethink their strategy and advertising, to try and appeal to a more diverse demographic,” he said.
Tour groups visit and pose for photographs in front of the Ruins of St. Paul's on July 29, 2013 in Macau. While the historic center of the territory is a UNESCO World Heritage Site, Macau is lacking in other cultural tourist attractions. Photo: Getty Images
The demographic most in evidence during IBTimes recent visit to Macau was mainland Chinese tour groups who, while fitting the economic demographic Macau is seeking to target, did not appear to have bought into the idea of the territory as a family resort.
"I come here with my wife to play the casinos - no kids," Simon Chan, visiting from Fuzhou, told IBTimes, as he sipped a drink at the bar adjescent to the Grand Lisboa casino's main gaming floor. His friend, who declined to give his name, agreed: "I take my kids to (popular beach resort) Sanya."
Other Chinese visitors we spoke to said they were on multi-stop tours; popular packages that commonly take visitors to Hong Kong and Macau for short periods. It is these types of tour, which combine the attractions of Macau with other regional tourism centers, that represent the territory's best hope at adapting to the changed tourism environment, according to one expert.
"Macau will probably never be a destination by itself for more than one day... but it will be successful because it is very much in the way of this huge movement of people that we see in this very dynamic part of the pearl river delta," Leonardo Dioko, director of the International Tourism Research Centre of the Institute for Tourism Studies in Macau, told IBTimes.
"Combined with other attractions in the region, that will strengthen Macau as a route," he said. But the stakes are high: "The risks are going to be huge, because the mass market is far more fickle." 
The VIP gamers may be disappearing from Macau's tables but Macau's government could be about to place the biggest bet of all.
Oil giant Royal Dutch Shell PLC said Thursday it will cut 6,500 jobs this year due to falling oil prices. The company also said it was planning for a prolonged market downturn as the drop in oil prices could persist for several years.
While announcing the second quarter results on Thursday, Shell stated that its capital investment for this year will be trimmed by $7 billion and operating costs will be reduced by $4 billion. Further operating cost reduction will be expected in 2016, it added.
“We have to be resilient in a world where oil prices remain low for some time, whilst keeping an eye on recovery. We’re taking a prudent approach, pulling on powerful financial levers to manage through this downturn, always making sure we have the capacity to pay attractive dividends for shareholders,” Shell’s CEO Ben van Beurden said in a statement.
The Anglo-Dutch conglomerate’s second quarter earnings were $3.4 billion, a decline of 35 percent compared with last year’s earnings in the same period.
"As our results today show, we're successfully reducing our capital spending and operating costs, and delivering a competitive performance in today's oil market downturn," van Beurden said.
However, the company will create 2,000 other jobs, the Express reported. The current headcount of the company across the world is about 94,000, according to its website.
Shell is following in the footsteps of BP PLC and Chevron Corporation in terms of cost cutting measures, as the world’s biggest oil companies struggle with a 50 percent slouch in crude prices in the past year, Bloomberg reported.
Russian President Vladimir Putin signed a decree Wednesday ordering the "destruction" of all food brought into the country against import bans on Western products. The import bans were part of sanctions instituted in 2014 in response to Western sanctions on Russia over the Ukraine crisis, and they have greatly disrupted the daily lives of ordinary Russians who used to be huge importers of European goods.
The order will come into effect on Aug. 6. "[A]gricultural goods, raw materials and food originating from a country that has made the decision to introduce economic sanctions against Russian entities and/or individuals, or has joined such a decision, and which are prohibited from being imported into the Russian Federation ... are subject to destruction," the decree read, according to the Moscow Times.
The sanctions on Russia and those imposed by the country on Western countries have not affected Russia alone. Many European countries who were large exporters to Russia have also taken a hit. French dairy farmers have been protesting unfair prices and a shrinking market since the start of July, and a large part of that problem was due to the disappearance of the Russian market for French cheese.
Russian President Vladimir Putin issued a decree Wednesday ordering all banned food from Western nations "destroyed." Photo: AFP/Getty Images
The new decree does not pertain to the small amounts of Western goods that citizens are allowed to bring back from Europe or the U.S. for personal consumption. The limits of "personal consumption" have often been tested, with Russians attempting to smuggle large amounts of imported cheese or other specialty goods into the country. Earlier this month, a Russian man was caught attempting to smuggle 1,000 pounds of contraband cheese into the country.
A large black market for these banned products has quickly emerged in the past year, complete with back room dealings.
Putin's decree was a continuation of policies in the past few months to solidify sanctions with Western nations and demonstrate that Russia has no intention of reversing them. Putin signed a decree renewing the sanctions for at least another year.
Malaysian Prime Minister Najib Razak said in a statement Thursday that initial reports suggest that the debris found on the island of Réunion in the Indian Ocean is “very likely” from a Boeing 777, but it is yet to be verified if it was from the missing Malaysia Airlines Flight MH370. Authorities are investigating if the debris is from the missing plane while the families of those on board Flight MH370 wait for the long-awaited answers to the mystery of its disappearance.
“To find out as fast as possible, the debris will be shipped by French authorities to Toulouse, site of the nearest office of the BEA, the French authority responsible for civil aviation accident investigations,” Razak wrote in the statement, on his blog.
Razak also said that a Malaysian team, consisting of representatives from the transport ministry, the Department of Civil Aviation, the MH370 investigation team and Malaysia Airlines, is on its way to Toulouse. Another Malaysian team is headed to the area where the debris was found on Réunion Island, a French territory near Madagascar, in Africa.
The six-foot long piece of wreckage has fuelled hopes that one of aviation's greatest mysteries may finally be solved. The search for Flight MH370, which has become the costliest in aviation history has been ongoing for over a year with no concrete clues as to the whereabouts of the plane that disappeared on March 8, 2014, with 239 people on board while on its way from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing.
On Thursday, a small, badly damaged suitcase was also found near the wreckage, local media reports said. Local police are reportedly investigating if it also can be linked to the missing Flight MH370.
Photo de la valise retrouvée ce matin à Saint-André, près de là où l'aile a été vue hier. (photo @Linfore) #LaReunion pic.twitter.com/Dp23nq0U4l
— Antoine Forestier (@a_forestier) July 30, 2015
Meanwhile, an aviation expert reportedly said that the two codes -- 657-BB and BB670 -- which appear on the debris, may have been placed on it by maintenance workers and the "B" probably stands for Boeing. AirLive.net, an aviation website, reported earlier that one of the codes -- 657-BB -- stamped on the debris was from a Boeing 777 flaperon.
However, Malaysia’s transport ministry urged caution in jumping to conclusions, even as the debris was being treated as "a major lead.”
“The Ministry would like to state that until there is tangible and irrefutable evidence that the flaperon does belong to the missing aircraft, it would be premature to speculate at this juncture. This is to ensure that we do not raise false hope for the loved ones of the victims of MH370," the ministry said, in a statement.
Razak also vowed that authorities would provide regular updates on the investigation while relatives of those on board the missing plane called for a "100 per cent confirmation" that the piece of debris was in fact linked to Flight MH370.
“We have had many false alarms before, but for the sake of the families who have lost loved ones, and suffered such heartbreaking uncertainty, I pray that we will find out the truth so that they may have closure and peace,” Razak said. “I promise the families of those lost that whatever happens, we will not give up.”
ATHENS (Reuters) - Greek Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras's divided leftist Syriza party met on Thursday to thrash out its differences amid a mounting rebellion by far-left lawmakers who accuse the party of betraying its anti-austerity roots.
Greece narrowly averted an exit from the euro zone for now when it struck an 11th-hour deal with lenders this month on a third financial rescue, but that has cost Tsipras the support of about a quarter of his lawmakers and put Syriza on the brink of a split.
The deepening crisis within Syriza is the most serious political challenge to Tsipras, who otherwise enjoys unrivalled domination of the Greek political scene and remains popular despite his sudden U-turn to accept stringent bailout terms.
Failure to assert his grip on Syriza and quash the far-left revolt could plunge Greece back into turmoil and risk derailing talks with European and International Monetary Fund lenders on a new 86 billion euro aid package to keep Athens afloat.
Roughly 200 members of Syriza's decision-making central committee gathered at an old movie theater in central Athens to decide whether to hold a regular, emergency congress or a referendum to redefine the party's strategy.
"At the moment there are two different strategies competing in the same party - one that wants Greece inside the euro and the other that wants Greece outside euro," Olga Gerovasili, the government spokeswoman told reporters as she arrived.
"These two can't exist together at the government level."
The hardline Left Platform faction is demanding that Syriza abandon talks with lenders immediately and hold an ordinary party congress to determine the party's course. A regular congress would favor the far-left, with the same members who attended two years ago returning to vote on Syriza's future.
Tsipras is believed to favor an emergency congress instead, which would enable him to bring in new Syriza members and capitalize on the wider public support he has secured over the past two years, making it easier to defeat the far-left camp.
A less likely course would be for the central committee to opt for a referendum, which would put an as yet undetermined question about party strategy to grassroots members for a vote.
In a radio interview on Wednesday, Tsipras said he could be forced to call an early general election if he no longer had a parliamentary majority, and suggested an emergency party congress could be held in early September.
That would potentially allow Greece to wrap up negotiations with lenders on a bailout package, which Athens hopes to have sealed before a major debt payment falls due on August 20, and secure initial funding before a vote.
"Our priority is the (bailout) deal," Gerovasili said. "After this we can deal with party issues."
Negotiations with officials of the European Commission, the European Central Bank, the IMF and the euro zone's rescue fund, the European Stability Mechanism, were continuing discreetly in Athens on Thursday.
Update as of 4:30 a.m. EDT: Families of Chinese passengers of Malaysia Airlines Flight MH370 have demanded a quick confirmation of whether the debris found on the island of Réunion in the Indian Ocean is from the missing Boeing 777-200.
"We don't want to hear an official giving 99 per cent guarantee. We want 100 per cent confirmation!" the next-of-kin said, in a statement posted on social media Thursday afternoon. "No matter where the wreckage is, what we are most concerned is the whereabouts of our loved ones.”
French authorities said Thursday that no hypothesis could be ruled out in the investigation into the debris, but its origin is yet to be identified. A Malaysian official said, earlier on Thursday, that it was “almost certain” that the debris was from a Boeing 777.
Meanwhile, AirLive.net, an aviation website, reported that one of the codes stamped on the debris was from a Boeing 777 flaperon, while a mechanic from the Réunion-based airline Air Austral told reporters that the debris had a 657-BB code. However, during a press conference, Warren Truss, Australia’s deputy prime minister, mentioned the number as BB670.
BREAKING 657-BB code found on wreckage is Boeing 777 flaperon according to manual /@Paris7Life http://t.co/MlhHe6Px4F pic.twitter.com/Zx1XAPNbfC
— AirLive.net (@airlivenet) July 30, 2015
Original story:
Australia described the latest development in the search for missing Malaysia Airlines Flight MH370 as "a major lead” even as Malaysia’s transport ministry urged caution in linking it to the missing plane. On Wednesday, airplane debris was found on the island of Réunion in the Indian Ocean, which could potentially be from the missing Boeing 777-200.
Warren Truss, Australia’s deputy prime minister, said at a press conference on Thursday, that it is a “realistic possibility” that debris from Flight MH370 may have drifted as far as the Réunion Island, a French territory near Madagascar, in Africa. The current search has so far been focused on a 46,332-square-mile part of the southern Indian Ocean, nearly 2,300 miles from the island.
“A piece of debris could have floated a very, very long way in 16 months and it is a very, very long way to the Reunion islands from where we think the aircraft entered the water,” Truss reportedly said, adding that photos from the scene are “not inconsistent with a Boeing 777,” although there are “other possibilities.”
Meanwhile, Malaysia's transport ministry, which has been the subject of much criticism over its handling of the search, cautioned that no conclusion should be drawn until “tangible and irrefutable evidence” proved the debris belongs to the missing plane.
Truss reportedly added that a number seen on the debris -- BB670 -- is not a serial number but could be a maintenance code that could help speed up the investigation. 
“This kind of work is obviously going to take some time although the number may help to identify the aircraft parts -- assuming that’s what they are -- much more quickly than might otherwise be the case,” Truss said, according to the Guardian.
 Truss also reportedly said, during the press conference, that the ongoing search for the Boeing 777-200 is in the right area, adding that the current weather conditions are “very poor,” hampering the search efforts.
Earlier on Thursday, the Australian government said Malaysia would be responsible for investigating the findings on Reunion Island, which could provide long-awaited answers to the mystery of the missing plane that disappeared on March 8, 2014, with 239 people on board.
“A team comprising experts from the Department of Civil Aviation, Malaysia Airlines and the Malaysian ICAO Annex 12 Safety Investigation Team for MH370 has been despatched to Reunion Island to verify whether the flaperon belongs to the missing aircraft," Malaysia's transport ministry said, in a statement Thursday. “The Ministry would like to state that until there is tangible and irrefutable evidence that the flaperon does belong to the missing aircraft, it would be premature to speculate at this juncture. This is to ensure that we do not raise false hope for the loved ones of the victims of MH370."
When Malaysia Airlines Flight MH370 vanished from radar screens in March 2014, it triggered a chain of events that would launch the most expensive search in aviation history. Despite circumstances that one might think would forge a degree of international unity, the period since the aircraft's disappearance has been characterized by bitter disputes and anger, much of it directed at Malaysia.
The attitude and actions of Malaysia Airlines' majority shareholder, the Malaysian government, have been behind much of the consternation. The regime, unused to public scrutiny, suddenly found several agencies it operated -- the airline, air-traffic control and airports -- under an intense international spotlight, and it quickly sought other targets to blame over the disappearance than itself, leading to complaints that it was rushing to accuse people, such as the pilots, against whom there was no evidence.
In addition, officials from Vietnam and China, among other countries, criticized Malaysia's initial response to the disappearance, saying it was seriously compromised by a lack of transparency, cooperation and a reluctance to share information it perceived could harm its national security interests.
Fiercest of all Malaysia's critics was China, whose citizens made up 152 of the flight's 227 passengers. In the months after the disappearance, Chinese officials branded Malaysia's initial efforts as “chaotic,” and questioned the veracity of information coming from Malaysian officials, the South China Morning Post reported. The Chinese relatives of missing passengers were also highly vocal in their criticism of Malaysian officials, and Chinese tourism to Malaysia dropped sharply in the months following the disappearance.

Malaysia is not the only country that has been criticized for its actions during the search. The lack of cooperation between states that were all nominally allied economically and politically through trade ties and their membership of the Association of South East Asian Nations (ASEAN) was branded “farcical,” by Aviation Week. The magazine cited the example of Thailand's military tracking MH370, but not communicating the data “because it wasn’t asked.”
Malaysian authorities were not spared by domestic critics either, with opposition leader Anwar Ibrahim accusing the government of deliberately concealing information, according to the Telegraph.
In addition, the relatives of missing passengers have been highly critical of Malaysian authorities. A particular target of scorn was an interim report, published by Malaysia's Ministry of Transport in March of this year. Relatives described the report as “useless,” criticized it for interviewing fewer people than their own private investigation did, and alleged that Malaysian authorities were keeping information from them, the BBC reported.
Chinese relatives of the flight MH370 walk towards the Malaysian Embassy on March 25, 2014 in Beijing, China. Hundreds of protesters, including many relatives of missing flight MH370 passengers, marched on the Malaysian Embassy in Beijing demanding answers from Malaysian authorities about the fate of the flight. The Prime Minister of Malaysia announced yesterday that new data showed the flight had crashed into the Southern Indian Ocean.  Photo: Getty Images
Senior figures in the airline industry have also been highly critical of transparency issues involving the search. Tim Clark, president of Emirates airline, said in a 2014 interview that he was “totally dissatisfied” with the results of the investigation up until that point. In an apparent reference to Malaysia, he added that “others would like to bury it. … we have an obligation not to brush this under the carpet.”
For its part, the government of Prime Minister Najib Razak has rejected criticism of its handling of the plane's disappearance, saying that levels of cooperation with international partners were unprecedented, and pledged to continue the search.
Whether Wednesday's discovery of debris on Reunion Island in the Indian Ocean will bring the search any closer to fruition is not yet certain. Further recriminations and conflict over the disappearance, however, seem likely to continue.
Update as of 2 a.m. EDT: The debris that's washed ashore on the island of Réunion in the Indian Ocean is most likely from a Boeing 777 airplane, the same type as the missing Malaysia Airlines Flight MH370, Malaysia's deputy transport minister said on Thursday. 
"It is almost certain that the flaperon is from a Boeing 777 aircraft. Our chief investigator here told me this,” Deputy Transport Minister Abdul Aziz Kaprawi said, according to Reuters.
Given that there are no other missing Boeing 777 planes, if the debris is confirmed to be from such an aircraft, it would be the first wreckage of the missing plane to have been found after a months-long international search that has become the costliest in aviation history.
Original story:
The Australian government on Thursday acknowledged it was aware of airplane debris that's washed ashore on the island of Réunion in the Indian Ocean, and said Malaysia would be responsible for investigating the findings, which could lead to unlocking the mystery of Malaysia Airlines Flight MH370's disappearance in March 2014. The Perth-based Joint Agency Coordination Centre (JACC) has so far led the search for the missing plane in the southern Indian Ocean.
The debris, which was discovered by a crew cleaning the coastline of Réunion Island, a French territory near Madagascar in Africa, could provide long-awaited answers to the mystery of the missing plane. The Boeing 777-200 went missing while on its way from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing on March 8, 2014, with 239 people on board.
Malaysia “is managing this examination with the assistance of Boeing, the BEA (Bureau d'Enquêtes et d'Analyses pour la Sécurité de l'Aviation Civile), the National Transportation Safety Bureau (US) and the Australian Transport Safety Bureau,” Warren Truss, Australia’s deputy prime minister, said in the statement. “In the event that the wreckage is identified as being from MH370 on La Reunion Island, it would be consistent with other analysis and modelling that the resting place of the aircraft is in the southern Indian Ocean.”
Air safety investigators have a "high degree of confidence" that the debris is a flaperon or wing flap that contains an element unique to Boeing 777 aircrafts, a U.S. official reportedly said.
An unprecedented international search for the plane has been ongoing for over a year and has become the costliest search in aviation history. In its latest update, the JACC said that over 21,000 square miles of the 46,332 square miles of search area has so far been scoured. 
The focus of the search has now turned to the tiny Indian Ocean island of Reunion after the debris was discovered Wednesday.
“With regards to the reports of the discovery of an aircraft flaperon at Reunion Island, Malaysia Airlines is working with the relevant authorities to confirm the matter,” Malaysia Airlines said, in a statement Thursday. “At the moment, it would be too premature for the airline to speculate the origin of the flaperon.”
Meanwhile, China said Thursday that it is "seeking to confirm the situation with relevant countries" after French authorities said they were examining the plane debris found on the island.
The Chinese government "will pay close attention to developments," foreign ministry spokesman Hong Lei told Reuters. 
Most of the passengers on board Flight MH370 were Chinese nationals. In May, China, along with Australia and Malaysia, decided to expand the search zone after a search of the initial search area failed to provide any clue as to the whereabouts of the plane. The initial search had focused on a 23,166-square-mile portion of the southern Indian Ocean.
As the world's focus turns to the tiny Indian ocean island of Reunion, where a piece of debris that could be part of missing Malaysia Airlines Flight MH370 was found Wednesday, relatives of those on board the missing aircraft have expressed a mixture of caution, pain and anger.
"My initial reaction was I wasn't sure whether to believe it because there have been so many false alarms," said Sarah Bajc, whose boyfriend Philip Wood was a passenger on MH370 when it went missing on March 8, 2014, on a flight from Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, to Beijing with 239 people on board, in a statement provided to NBC News.
"If it is from the plane than any hope that I might have had that this plane landed safely somewhere is harder to believe," she added. "My thread of hope goes away."

Bajc has been highly critical of the Malaysian government's efforts to locate the aircraft. She was one of a group of passengers' relatives and interested parties that set up an Indiegogo appeal to fund a reward for information leading to the plane's discovery. Bajc wrote on the appeal's page that “the official investigation being run by governments and agencies has failed to find the plane, due to either incompetence or obfuscation.”
"I am still very angry at the country of Malaysia for their lack of efforts to hold anyone responsible for this," Bajc added in her statement "They have failed the world."
New Zealander Sara Weeks, whose brother Paul was on board the flight, told TVNZ that she “felt a bit sick,” upon waking up to the news that wreckage from the flight may have been discovered.
“This whole time we've not known anything, so you still have some hope that something else has happened, that maybe it did land somewhere, maybe the hijack stories are true and they could still be alive. You always have that hope. I guess [this discovery] takes the hope away,” she added.
In contrast, news of the discovery appeared to be too much for some relatives of the missing. Maira Elizabeth Nari, who is the the daughter of Andrew Nari, MH370's chief steward, tweeted that she was choosing to “close her eyes” as she saw MH370 beginning to trend.
Looking at what&#39;s trending, people talking and retweeting about it.., I choose to close my eyes and worry not. &#10;&#10;Goodnight. __
&mdash; Maira Elizabeth. (@Gorgxous_) July 29, 2015
K.S. Narendran, whose wife was on MH370 when it disappeared, told CNN that he was reticent to call the discovery a major development.
"I think this is very early days yet. All we know is that a small part has been found. It is still a little early to suggest it does belong to MH370," he said. "I think it is premature to feel that it is all coming to a close or that we are even closer to the truth."
His caution was echoed by Malaysia Airlines themselves. In a statement on Twitter, the airline said they were “working with the relevant authorities to confirm the matter,” adding that “ it would be too premature for the airline to speculate the origin of the object,” which had been discovered in Reunion.
As if 13 environmentalist dangling from a bridge in Portland, Oregon, to protest arctic drilling weren't strange in and of itself, the Greenpeace activists made the situation even weirder by taking to Reddit Wednesday afternoon for an Ask Me Anything session in which they answered questions about their experience thus far blocking a Shell icebreaker from leaving the city.
The activists began their protest early Wednesday morning, repelling from the city's St. Johns Bridge and suspending themselves above the Willamette River using ropes and hammocks. The protesters are hoping the human wall they've created will keep the icebreaker from leaving Swan Island port, where it docked for repairs. The ship is reportedly carrying equipment necessary for Shell's arctic drilling, which the protesters say will cause harm to locals and the environment. 
"For people who live in the Arctic, the permafrost is melting, and indigenous communities are literally melting away. These communities' lands are falling into the ocean as the permafrost melts. Shell is a root cause of this problem," the protesters responded to one Reddit user who asked why they were willing to break the law for this cause.
 
Finally some well deserved (IMO) shade. 12+ hours strong! #ShellNo pic.twitter.com/PrXQCLEV8u
— Dan Cannon (@DanEnviroCannon) July 29, 2015
 
The protesters have said they are willing to stick it out for as long as it takes to keep Shell from drilling, which could mean staying up there for weeks. Asked how they are passing the time, an activist said "people have books, crossword puzzles, social media, sleeping, it was a very late night. Some are doing interviews. Some are getting up and climbing up and down for exercise. Some of us brought journals to doodle or write poetry. There's a lot of different things we have to entertain ourselves."
Despite hanging in mid air, one of the activists said the scariest part of the protest was being chased by cops before climbing over the bridge rail and descending. "At that point, cops were coming over the bridge. We saw the lights, but we wanted to stay calm. We were nervous and anxious, because we saw the police lights. It's indescribable. But then I lowered safely into my descending gear," the protester said, adding that "if I do get a felony, it'll be something I think that can make a difference. I want to draw the eyes of the world to what Shell is doing."
Finally, the protesters encouraged others who've been inspired to take action as well. "We need more people. We need politicians to hear from more people. We need corporations to hear from more people that what oil companies are doing isn't right."
Asian shares were firm on Thursday after the U.S. Federal Reserve said it saw theeconomy and jobs continuing to strengthen, helping lift the dollar as traders bet that higher U.S. interest rates were around the corner.
Japan's Nikkei .N225 rose 0.8 percent while Australian shares tacked on 0.3 percent and South Korean shares .KS11 gained 0.2 percent.
Dollar-denominated MSCI's broadest index of Asia-Pacific shares outside Japan.MIAPJ0000PUS was almost flat.
On Wall Street, U.S. stocks rose broadly on the Fed's optimism and strong corporate earnings, with S&P 500 .SPX rising 0.7 percent to 2,108.57.
The Fed said in its statement after a policy-setting meeting on Wednesday the U.S.economy and job market continue to strengthen.
"On the whole, you could say that the Fed still cannot make up its mind. A rate hike is getting nearer but it's not there yet," said Tohru Yamamoto, chief fixed income strategist at Daiwa Securities.
The Fed also said it now only needs to see "some" more improvement in the labor market, a qualification that some analysts said suggested it believes the recent solid U.S. job gains will continue.
That language kept alive expectations among some analysts for the Fed to raise interest rates as early as September.
But U.S. interest rate futures markets continued to price in a later rate hike, with December seen as the mostly likely start date <0#FF:>.
"The markets still think that the world's economy remains fragile given a fall in Chinese shares and commodity prices. The Fed surely doesn't want to screw up its exit from zero rates by hastily moving and hitting already fragile commodities market and the worldeconomy," said Daiwa's Yamamoto.
Concerns that the massive fall in Chinese share prices since last month could put additional drag on an already-slowing Chinese economy have hurt many emerging market shares and commodities that had long benefited from rapid expansion of the world's second largest economy.
On Wednesday, though, most commodity prices gained, reflecting positive risk sentiment in other markets.
Copper futures CMCU3 rose 0.6 percent to $5,328.20 per tonne, extending their recovery from Monday's six-year low of $5,164.00 to 3.2 percent.
MSCI's emerging market equity index .MSCIEF, which has been hit by worries over impending U.S. rate hikes, a China slowdown and falls in commodities, rebounded from a two-year low hit on Tuesday.
Oil prices, smarting from supply concerns due to rising U.S. shale oil output and easing of sanction on Iran, also rose after weekly data showed an unexpectedly large drawdown inU.S. crude inventories.
Front-month Brent crude futures LCOc1 rose to settle at $53.38 a barrel, recovering from Tuesday's six-month low of $52.28.
In the currency market, confirmation that the Fed is on course to raise rates later this year was enough to send the dollar higher against most other currencies at a time when the focus for many countries remained on stimulating their respective economies.
The dollar index rose to 97.160 .DXY =USD, keeping intact its rebound from Monday's two-week low of 96.288.
The euro fell 0.2 percent to $1.0964 EUR=, near its lowest level so far this week. In recent weeks, the euro tends to fall when risk appetite is strong as it is used as a funding currency for investment in risk assets.
The dollar also rose about 0.1 percent in early Asian trade to 124.075 JPY= yen, hitting its highest level so far this week.
U.S. stocks closed higher for the second straight session, with the Dow Jones Industrial Average gaining more than 100 points, as the Federal Reserve kept rates unchanged. Policymakers said the economy is “expanding moderately,” signaling the central bank remains on course to lift interest rates as early as September -- for the first time in nearly a decade .
All 10 Standard & Poor's 500 sectors closed higher, led by a more than 1 percent gain in energy and industrials.
The Dow Jones Industrial Average (INDEXDJX:.DJI) rallied 121.12 points, or 0.69 percent, to close at 17,751.39. The S&P 500 index (INDEXSP:.INX) added 15.32 points, or 0.73 percent, to finish at 2,108.57. And the Nasdaq composite (INDEXNASDAQ:.IXIC) edged up 22.53 points, or 0.44 percent, to end at 5,111.73.
The Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC), a board of governors at the Federal Reserve that determines the direction of monetary policy, did specifically not indicate when an increase in the federal funds rate is coming this year. A notable omission from the statement was any reference to Greece’s debt crisis, or to slower growth and the recent big stock market declines in China, indicating the central bank does not view either as major threats to the U.S. economy.
“Today's more upbeat statement, particularly as it relates to the labor market, could be a sign that the FOMC is more likely to move in September than December. But unless conditions deteriorate in the next few months, a rate hike is coming this year,” Stuart Hoffman, chief economist at PNC Financial Services Group, said in a research note Wednesday.
Hoffman forecasts the central bank’s first rate increase will likely be announced at the Fed’s next meeting on Sept. 16-17 meeting.
Dow component Microsoft Corporation (NASDAQ:MSFT) led the index higher, gaining 2 percent, while DuPont Co. (NYSE:DD) experienced the biggest decline, down nearly 1 percent.
Shares of Twitter Inc. (NYSE:TWTR) dropped more than 14 percent Wednesday, falling to a 52-week low of $31.06, a day after the social media company posted earnings that beat Wall Street forecasts, but it warned of slow user growth. 
Investors are turning their attention to Facebook Inc. (NASDAQ:FB), which reported results after the closing bell Wednesday. The social media giant beat Wall Street forecasts on earnings and revenue, but shares still fell 3 percent in after-hours trading to as low as $91.85. Facebook’s mobile daily average users were 844 million, an increase of 29 percent from a year ago, but slightly down from the previous quarter. Facebook's mobile daily average users were 798 million in the first quarter, up 31 percent from the same period a year earlier. 
Shares of Facebook have gained nearly 30 percent in the last 12 months. 
Economists will get a glimpse into the overall health of the U.S. economy Thursday when the Commerce Department releases its first estimate of GDP.
U.S. gross domestic product, the broadest measure of goods and services produced across the economy, is forecast to grow at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 2.6 percent in the second quarter, according to analysts polled by Thomson Reuters.
The U.S. economy shrank 0.2 in the first three months of 2015, driven by a slowdown in shipping due to labor disputes at West Coast ports.
Market professionals are also looking ahead to Thursday’s economic calendar, with weekly jobless claims -- the number of Americans filing new claims for unemployment -- due out at 8:30 a.m. EDT. U.S. jobless claims tumbled to a nearly 42-year low last week as fewer Americans filed new applications for unemployment benefits.
Initial claims for state unemployment benefits declined 26,000 to a seasonally adjusted 255,000 for the week ended July 18, the lowest level since November 1973, the U.S. Labor Department said last week.
Economists forecast that jobless claims last week rose by 15,000 to 270,000 for the week ending July 25, according to analysts polled by Thomson Reuters.
Nestled in the French Peyrissas region near the Pyrenees mountains bordering Spain, Didier Frechou's pig farm has been passed down from father to son for more than five generations. But after a century of selling whole animals, Frechou recently broke with family tradition and instead started peddling sausages and other finished products because he couldn’t keep up with the low prices of pork cuts from neighboring Spain.
While curing pork and stuffing it into intestinal casings with different spices to make such classic delicacies as boudin or jambon sec might not appeal to everyone, for struggling small farmers like Frechou, 47, it has meant the difference between survival and bankruptcy.
Farmers across France in recent weeks protested European Union food import laws and poor deals with distributors by blocking highways and letting pigs loose in supermarkets. The widely publicized protests, though theatrical at first glance, underscore a grave problem for many French farmers. With lower quality controls in neighboring Spain and Germany, cheaper milk, meat and other products have saturated the French market, threatening to endanger centuries-old small farms whose products have long been a symbol of national identity. The crisis has been compounded by a 10 percent lower demand for meat in France, a shrinking market for French milk in China and continuing food sanctions upheld by Russia, a nation that was once a significant importer of French goods.
Farmers gathered to listen to their union representatives in front a dairy factory of tin Laval, northwestern France, during a demonstration against falling food prices on July 27. Photo: AFP/Getty Images
The protests have seen farmers burn tires, hay and manure to block roads near national borders with Spain and Germany. Some farmers near the German border in Alsace searched and seized foreign produce arriving on German trucks. In an expression of desperation, several pig farmers near Lyon even let their animals run wild in a supermarket to draw attention to how supermarkets have underpaid for domestic meat.
The demonstrations were intended to send a symbolic message that France's borders should not be left open to all import without regulation. The agricultural crisis has left 22,000 farms -- almost 10 percent of the total farms in France -- on the verge of bankruptcy, according to the French government.
One issue at the heart of the French farmers' struggle is the difference in regulations and quality controls across European countries. Though standardized agricultural regulations do exist for the EU, they are interpreted in vastly different ways by each nation. The laws surrounding farm regulations are incredibly vague and only provide general guidelines for things like "quality" and "diversity." Seeking the continuation of traditional methods, the French government interprets these regulations in the strictest possible way, which in turn hikes up the price of doing business for farmers. 
“We are persecuted,” said Raymond Berne, who raises cattle outside of Lyon with his three sons. Berne, 68, said he still works from sunrise to sunset to keep his farm going. He said that farmers selling within artisan markets, who produce luxury products like foie gras, charcuterie or champagne, never have to worry about competition because their products are indigenous to France. As someone who raises cattle for beef, however, he feared he would always be out-sold by neighboring countries who do not have the same strict agricultural regulations that France does.
Another determining factor in product prices is wage differences across EU nations. There has never been any wage standardization in Europe, and the minimum wage in Spain, for example, was less than 3 euros per hour, while in France it was nearly 10 euros per hour in 2014. Salaried workers in France are also entitled to five weeks paid vacation and are not supposed to work more than 35 hours per week.
"We are dedicated Europeans,” said Franck Sander, a farmer and union organizer in the northern region of Alsace. “We just want our country to stop overcharging us with taxes.”
Sander, 36, was one of the leaders of the group of farmers that blocked highways in northern France to Germany and searched vehicles carrying imported goods for market. Sander said the protest was the only way to demonstrate the gravity of their situation to the French government. Sander and his group have had some success, and as of Tuesday, he had secured a meeting with the agriculture minister in their region to discuss concrete changes to agricultural regulations.
Milk production and beef are two of the industries that have suffered the most because of foreign competition. Photo: Getty Images
Jean-Pierre Fleury, president of the National Association for Cow Farmers in France, called the regulations a “price-war without precedent" and said the protests should serve as a wake-up call concerning universal standards in the EU. “We don’t have any problem with our colleagues, our fellow farmers in Spain or Germany,” he said. “This is a political problem.”
President Francois Hollande promised 600 million euros in aid last Wednesday, and the Minister of Agriculture has issued 24 mandates to help farmers in the short-term, but farmers said they need sustainable and systemic change. Many farmers took on large amounts of debt in the past fifteen years to accommodate higher demand from both domestic and international consumers. But when that demand dropped following sanctions in Russia over the conflict in Ukraine and changing national tastes, small farmers found themselves in debt and with a surplus of a product they couldn’t sell.
Far-right groups, such as the National Front, took notice of the farmers' dissatisfaction with the government response and capitalized on this crisis to draw farmers farther to the right. The National Front, an anti-immigrant party and euroskeptic party, has gained support from farmers in the past few months because of the crisis and the party's promises of stricter import controls, the French newspaper Figaro reported. With 25 percent of the nation's voters coming from rural areas and a general election approaching in 2017, this shift could have implications in senatorial and presidential contests.
Farmers blocked the A31 highway in Hauconcourt, eastern France, during a demonstration against falling food prices, which they blame on foreign competition, as well as supermarkets and distributors, on July 28. The sign read "We feed you, but we are dying. Photo: AFP/Getty Images
France has a long history of protest culture that arguably stretches back to the storming of the Bastille during the French Revolution. When citizens are angry about a new law or regulation, they often take to the streets the very next day by the hundreds or even thousands. And the farmers know that this approach has worked in the past. By mounting huge protests in Brittany during the summer of 2014, farmers succeeded in practically reversing a heavy “eco-tax” that would have charged high tolls on produce trucks.
Despite the inconveniences caused by the demonstrations, support for farmers has remained high, according to a poll published last Friday by the French agency Brulé Ville et Associés. Roughly 9 out of 10 French people supported the farmer’s movement, with 26 percent saying they strongly supported farmers. More than 80 percent of French people polled said they were ready to help French meat and dairy producers in the supermarkets, even if it meant paying a little more for their groceries. 
Aurélien Guinard, a Parisian millennial, said that when he had the choice between clearly marked French produce and foreign, he always chose French. "[These farmers] work so hard for so little, so if they are complaining, they must have a good reason," he said.
Many nations use the small farmer as a hero, a symbol of patriotism and home-grown values in an uncertain time. For the French, however, who are known worldwide as cheesemakers, vintners, and chefs, the small farmer is more than a symbol, he is an integral part of national identity. Gastronomy is so important to the French understanding of nationality that when former President Nicolas Sarkozy ordered a new citizenship test, it included identifying different types of cheese and their regions of origin.
For farmers just trying to get by, however, daily life can often seem anything but heroic. Herve de Mézerac, 49, sold all of his father’s animals and planted apple trees in their Normandy farm when he took over a few decades ago, knowing the animals were too expensive to raise. He said he soon discovered the profit margin for selling apples straight to market was also low, so he decided to make cider and the regional apple brandy, calvados. Despite setbacks, Mézerac said he remained hopeful about the future.
"This soil is very rich," he said. "It has saved us from crises worse than this one."
When it comes to Medicaid and Medicare, most Americans don’t know one from the other. They sound nearly identical, and they're both massive government programs that many have -- wrongly -- assumed have little impact on their own lives. Yet, for better or worse, Medicare and Medicaid have substantially influenced the American healthcare system, even in unexpected ways.
In the simplest terms, Medicare is a health insurance program for those over the age of 65, while Medicaid is for disabled and low-income Americans. Those are the basic characteristics of the two programs, although each program has many nuances and variations. U.S. President Lyndon B. Johnson signed both programs into law on July 30, 1965.
Today, about 55 million Americans are covered through Medicare, and about 66 million people, including 31 million children, are insured through Medicaid. That’s about one-third of America’s population. In 2013, spending for both programs combined amounted to roughly $1 trillion.
On the occasion of the two programs’ 50th birthday, commemorated Thursday, here are five ways, some better known than others, that Medicare and Medicaid have changed healthcare in America and affected the lives of far more than those who are enrolled in those programs.
Medicare and Medicaid turn 50...Despite constant GOPer attacks http://t.co/KgTdVetnde #UniteBlue pic.twitter.com/mGzM1hCEX9
&mdash; Progressive Push (@progressivepush) July 29, 2015
1. Medicare and Medicaid helped end segregation in medical facilities. If hospitals and nursing homes wanted to be paid by Medicare and Medicaid, they could not be racially segregated. Thus, they had to begin accepting black patients. "That's one of the really important accomplishments of the program that people don't know about," Nancy De Lew, a senior policy expert at the Department of Health and Human Services, told the Associated Press. 
The effect was almost immediate, even if it did not fully eliminate racial barriers in healthcare. “In hundreds of hospitals in all parts of the nation, but especially in the South, quality medical care is now being offered to every sick person, regardless of his race,” Dr. William H. Steward, then the U.S. Surgeon General, wrote in a paper in 1967. Blacks “are able to enter hospitals that were previously reserved for white patients only,” he added, even though he acknowledged that “in too many hospitals some subtle and ingenious devices to maintain discrimination are still in effect.”
2. Healthcare spending in America rose. From 1965 to 1970, total hospital spending rose by 23 percent, an increase that Amy Finklestein, a professor of economics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, linked to Medicare’s implementation. In the United States overall, a 40 percent increase in spending on healthcare from 1950 to 1990 can be linked at least in part to the expansion of healthcare coverage, including under Medicare, throughout the country.

3. Doctors are gradually being paid based on the quality, not the quantity, of the care they provide. For a long time in the U.S., medical care was purchased much the way one buys groceries: with each item paid for separately. Under this fee-for-service model, each visit to the doctor, each x-ray and each blood test had the same price, regardless of how much it benefited a patient. This system, many have argued, encouraged excessive medical services and testing. Some estimates suggested that up to 30 percent of spending on healthcare ends up being wasted on unnecessary or useless care.
The U.S. government has set the goal that by 2018, 50 percent of Medicare payments will be tied to the quality of care provided. Ideally, patients will receive higher-quality but less costly medical care where doctors are paid based on the quality, not the quantity, of their services. The new models for achieving this goal are varied and complex, and they have plenty of critics and doubters. Still, regardless of how doctors, insurers and healthcare companies feel about it, value-based payment is here to stay.
Value-based payment model is challenging for #radiologists. Partner us for revenue assistance. http://t.co/VNmSxk7XqS pic.twitter.com/oN8nxTXCgq
&mdash; MBC (@mbc_services) June 10, 2015
Because Medicare is changing the way it pays doctors and hospitals, other health insurance companies will gradually start to do the same. “Medicare shapes much of the quotidian of office practice for most physicians and surgeons,” noted Dr. Robert Martensen in a 2011 article in the American Medical Association’s Journal of Ethics. Medicaid can have a similar impact, as it provides funding for hospitals and doctors to devise new ways to care for people that can eventually spread to the broader healthcare system, the Kaiser Family Foundation said in a recent report.
4. In conjunction with allowances granted by the Affordable Care Act, a lot more low-income people can get health insurance through Medicaid. Obamacare, as the Affordable Care Act is also known, allows states to decide whether or not to expand Medicaid to a broader swath of poor people. It even gives them funding to do so. Thirty states currently have opted to expand Medicaid, most recently Alaska, whose governor announced in July that he would expand the program.
In the U.S., 4.6 million poor adults overall were newly enrolled in Medicaid as of September 2014 in states that expanded Medicaid so as to have better access to preventative and regular medical care instead of relying on emergency rooms and charity care.

5. Far more Americans over the age of 65 have health insurance specifically because of Medicare. The percentage of elderly people with insurance increased by 75 percent because of Medicare, research by Finkelstein, the MIT professor, has shown. And as a result of having insurance, far more elderly people actually receive medical care.
"No longer will older Americans be denied the healing miracle of modern medicine," Johnson said when he signed Medicare and Medicaid into law. "No longer will illness crush and destroy the savings that they have so carefully put away over a lifetime so that they might enjoy dignity in their later years.”
Now, an estimated 10,000 people enroll in Medicare every day, so that by 2030, about 81 million people were expected to be covered under the program.
Medicare and Medicaid are enormous government programs, and even its supporters admit that they are unwieldy and hardly perfect. One of several major upcoming challenges for Medicaid and Medicare will be controlling rising costs, especially as baby boomers age and more people sign up for Medicaid. Conservative detractors have frequently denounced Medicare or threaten to eliminate it.
However, both Medicaid and Medicare are here to stay, at least for the foreseeable future, and as long as they exist they will continue to shape the American healthcare landscape.
It was too good to last. Granted, the U.S. Federal Reserve has kept the federal funds rate hovering at historic, near-zero lows for more than six years. But that's all about to change. The Fed's inevitable interest rate hike later this year will affect average consumers in three key areas: mortgages, credit cards and bank loans.
The cumulative effect of what could be a series of rate hikes over an 18 to 24 month period will ripple across U.S. economy and weigh on America wallets and pocketbooks, says Greg McBride, chief financial analyst at Bankrate.com. The central bank's action could begin as soon as September. Here's what you can do as the window of opportunity narrows:
1. Refinance Your Mortgage 
Fixed rates for the benchmark 30-year mortgages have climbed above 4 percent recently in anticipation of the Fed raising rates. So it's a good time to look into refinancing a mortgage before rates rise further. There’s no guarantee that rates will drop below 4 percent as the year progresses, McBride said.
The average rate on a 30-year fixed mortgage has been at record lows since the Federal Reserve took steps to revive the U.S. economy following the 2007-2009 financial crisis. As the central bank prepares to move away from crisis-level rates, lenders will quickly begin to set mortgage rates based on their expectations for future inflation and interest rates.
The 30-year fixed-rate mortgage dropped 5 basis points to 4.12 percent, according to Bankrate's July 22 survey of interest rates. The average rate for a 15-year fixed-rate mortgage fell 4 basis points to 3.3 percent.
2. Snag Zero-Percent Credit Card Offers
Consumers should try to snag zero-percent introductory rates and balance transfer offers on credit cards--and do it now. As the Fed moves away from zero-percent interest rates, credit card issuers act accordingly and raise their interest rates. They will also be less likely to offer zero-percent rates.
3. Chip Away At Debt 
Now is also an opportunity to chip away at variable debt before interest rates begin to climb, including credit cards, student loans, auto loans and home equity lines of credit.
“You don’t want to be in a situation where you’re piling up a large balance while rates are low, only to have to pay it back in a higher rate environment,” McBride said.
Borrowers who took out home equity lines of credit during the housing boom should be especially mindful of when the 10-year draw period comes to an end. A draw period allows a holder of a line of credit to withdraw money for a period of ten years. Once the draw period is over, the borrower can no longer tap into the line of credit.
Once the 10-year period is up, borrowers are no longer paying just the interest on the loan. The monthly payments increase to cover interest expense and the principal balance over the remaining term of the loan.
That produces a significant payment increase completely independent of interest rates, McBride said. 
If you’re someone who believes American car culture is waning, new data released Wednesday ought to be sobering. Despite all the talk of the sharing economy's affect on car ownership, and anecdotal tales of bike-riding millennials, the country is more car-obsessed than ever.
There are now a record-breaking 257.9 million sedans, trucks and SUVs on U.S. roads. That’s four vehicles for every five people in the U.S. And it excludes motorcycles, big trucks like the F-350 and Ram 2500, and freight haulers. 
Industry tracker IHS Automotive has found the average age of a vehicle on U.S. roads has climbed to a record 11.5 years, up from 11.4 years last year and 9.8 years a decade ago. Americans are holding onto cars for longer period of time because improved quality has made vechiles more reliable. The Great Recession helped boost the average vehicle age, too, as cash-strapped car owners squeezed extra years out of their clunkers.
But while cars on U.S. roads are older than they’ve ever been, there are also more of them than ever.
“Registrations for light [vehicles in operation] in the U.S. also reached a record level of 257,900,000,” IHS said in a statement. “That’s an increase of more than 5.3 million (2.1 percent) since last year and the highest annual increase the auto industry has seen in the U.S.”

In the first quarter of the year, the typical American was holding on to his or her new car for the longest time on record, too. The average new car owner will hold on to his or her vehicle for about six-and-a-half years before heading it down to the automotive aftermarket. That’s up 26 months from the first three months of 2006. Used car owners are keeping their vehicles for about two years longer, to 63 months compared to the first quarter of 2006.
The average length of time U.S. new and used car owners are keeping their vehicles has increased substantially over the past decade.  Photo: IHS Automotive
The study says the average car in the U.S. will continue to age, to 11.7 years by 2018. The rate will slow down thanks to the rebound in new-auto sales we’ve seen since 2009 when auto sales plummeted to a 27-year-low during the recession, to 10.4 million. Next year is expected to be the seventh consecutive year of growth.
New car sales is expected to grow from 17.1 million next year to 17.4 million in 2016, according to an estimate from Alix Partners, a New York based business management consultancy. From 2017 to 2019 annual sales are expected to decline to 14.9 million in 2019 as part of the normal four-to-five year sales cycle.
As new technology and social media startups pop up almost every week, one U.S. industry has been lagging behind: banking. Since 2010, only three new banks have opened in the U.S., CNNMoney reported Wednesday.
There has also been a sharp decline in existing banks opening new branches. From 1990 to 2007, typically 500 new branches opened a year, but since 2010 that number has dropped to under 300 branches a year. Bank of America, for example, had 5,328 U.S. branches two years ago, but now that number has dropped to roughly 4,789. JPMorgan Chase also reported a decrease of 2 percent in their branches, and Citigroup has announced plans that they are leaving over a dozen countries. 
One explanation for the lack of new banks in recent years might be the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, which was enacted in 2010. Before the act was passed, the banking industry was spurring, and over 100 new banks popped onto the scene every year, according to data from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, which is responsible for approving new banks. 
At the same time, banks are having a hard time profiting because the Federal Reserves have kept interest rates extremely low in recent years. Economists at the Federal Reserve, however, estimate that 75 to 80 percent of the decline in new banks is not tied to any sort of regulation and probably would have happened as a normal part of business. Recently, there has been rising popularity in bank alternatives such as peer-to-peer lending companies, like Lending Club, which is operated entirely online with no branch infrastructure. Companies like Lending Club are not held to the same requirements as banks.
The Dodd-Frank regulation was passed in an attempt to prevent events similar to the 2008 financial crisis from occurring again. The act primarily affected financial institutions, such as banks, and their customers. It established new government agencies that monitored the performance of companies that were often deemed “too big to fail.”  The newly established agencies also had the power to break up large banks that might pose a risk to the financial system because of their size, and could also quickly liquidate or restructure firms that they found too financially weak, according to Investopedia. Another element of the Act, the Volcker Rule, restricted the way in which banks could invest and regulate trading in derivatives.
 
There has been a sharp decline in the number of new banks in 2010, as well as the number of branches for existing banks.  Photo: Getty Images
 
Dodd-Frank also required banks to have more cash on hand in case of a financial crisis and placed more restrictions on lending, which made it harder for banks to profit. Essentially, the regulation was meant to prevent large, insolvent banks from affecting the entire global financial system, but the regulation impacted smaller banks as well.
"Dodd-Frank was like the football players jumping on top of the pile," said Ernest Patrikis, a partner at law firm White and Case who spent 30 years at the New York Federal Reserve monitoring banks, CNNMoney reported. 
 
BRUSSELS -- Tensions between Greece and the three organizations collectively known as the "troika" grew after Yanis Varoufakis, the former Greek finance minister, said that Greek Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras had commissioned Varoufakis to draw up plans for a parallel banking system that could be used in the event of a Grexit.
The contingency plan challenges Prime Minister Tsipras’ repeated insistence that his intent is to keep Greece in the eurozone.
Unveiled plans by #Greece ex-FinMin Varoufakis to return to drachma during ongoing talks with us show how unpredictable he was as a partner
— Peter Kažimír (@KazimirPeter) July 27, 2015
“Unveiled plans by #Greece ex-FinMin Varoufakis to return to drachma during ongoing talks with us show how unpredictable he was as a partner,” Slovakian Finance Minister Peter Kazimir said in a tweet on Monday. “We need to make sure that such two-faced 'games' will be avoided when debating [and] drafting the third bailout package.”
The European Commission, the executive arm of the European Union, dismissed the allegations. “I don't think that the Commission will engage with conspiracy plans,” said Mina Andreeva, spokeswoman for the Commission. “What matters for the Commission is not looking into the past, but preparing the future.”
But the Commission was not so dismissive of another damning allegation. On Monday, in a transcript of a phone call released by the Official Monetary and Financial Institutions Forum (OMFIF), a think tank located in London, the former Greek finance minister claimed that Greece’s general secretariat of public revenues is controlled fully and directly by the troika.
“It was not under the control of my ministry and of me as minister; it was controlled by Brussels,” he said in the conversation. “The general secretary was appointed effectively through a process that is troika controlled.”
Reactions in Brussels on Tuesday were hardly conciliatory.
“The allegations that the troika was controlling the General Secretariat of Public Revenues are false and unfounded,” said Mina Andreeva, a spokeswoman for the European Commission. “It is a quasi-independent entity responsible for tax administration and is formally a part of the Ministry of Finance.”
“Alleging that the troika is controlling the General Secretariat of Public Revenues is simply not true. We are only providing technical assistance.”
The allegations did little to help a bitter atmosphere in Athens, where the Greek parliament has passed two rounds of austerity reforms since Greece and its creditors came to an agreement towards a third bailout package on July 13.
Greek Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras is seen on a television monitor whille addressing the nation early June 27, 2015. Photo: Reuters/Pool
The controversial phone call took place on July 16, 10 days after Mr. Varoufakis’ resignation from his position as finance minister; Varoufakis, Norman Lamont, British Chancellor of the Exchequer, and David Marsh, managing director of the OMFIF participated in the call. Members of the think tank’s network, including hedge-fund managers and long-term investors, were “passively listening” in on the call, according to a statement on the OMFIF’s website.
In the conversation, the former Greek finance minister also discussed his mandate to draft a parallel banking system and mentioned that German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble was “hell-bent on a Grexit.”
“Wolfgang Schaeuble has a plan. He believes that the eurozone is not sustainable as it is,” Mr. Varoufakis said in the phone call. “A Greek exit is going to equip him with sufficient bargaining power ... to impose upon the French that which Paris is resisting.”
“And what is that? It is a degree of transfer of budget-making powers from Paris to Brussels.”
Representatives from the troika are meeting in Athens this week to negotiate a memorandum of understanding for a third bailout package worth an estimated 86 billion euros. Although the Greek parliament’s passage of reform measures offered encouraging signs for Greek prospects of a bailout, Varoufakis’ vigilantism and transparency may bring the specter of mistrust back to the negotiating table.
Environmental activists are attempting to block an Arctic-bound oil company vessel from leaving Portland, Oregon. Climbers with the group Greenpeace rappelled off a bridge early Wednesday morning and remain suspended in the air, dangling near the dock of Royal Dutch Shell’s PLC icebreaker.
Greenpeace said 13 of its climbers have enough supplies to hang for days off the St. Johns Bridge. Another 13 people are assisting those activists, using ropes to supply them with food, water and even diapers, the organization said.
Shell’s MSV Fennica icebreaker underwent repairs ahead of a 2,000-mile journey to Alaska’s Chukchi Sea. The Obama administration last week gave the oil giant the final go-ahead to drill two new exploration wells about 70 miles off Alaska’s coast.
#Shellno #pdxvsshell kayakactivists prepare for standoff with Fennica pic.twitter.com/N1b1R4VmY5
— Daphne Wysham (@daphnewysham) July 29, 2015
The vessel is critical for keeping ice from encroaching on Shell’s Arctic drilling operations. It also carries crucial equipment designed to cover damaged wells in the event of a blowout, like the one that caused the 2010 Deepwater Horizon disaster in the Gulf of Mexico. The federal government requires Shell to have the equipment on hand before it starts testing oil and gas wells.
The 380-foot Fennica scraped into a shallow shoal earlier this month, tearing a 39-inch-by-2-inch hole in its hull. Following repairs, the vessel was set to return to the Arctic as early as Tuesday night.
“Shell isn’t just threatening polar bears and walruses with its drilling plans. By tapping into a new source of oil -- only accessible because of melting ice -- it’s threatening the entire world with worsening climate change,” Ryan Schleeter, an online content producer for Greenpeace USA, wrote in a blog post. “The climbers blocking [the vessel’s] way are now what stands in between Shell and an Arctic oil catastrophe.”
#risecascadia #Portland shows its heart. #ShellNo @guardian @billmckibben @ClimateDesk pic.twitter.com/25HQAKYqfT
— Connor DeVane (@connor_devane) July 29, 2015
A Shell spokeswoman said in an email, "The Fennica will begin its return journey to Alaska once we’ve completed the final preparations.”
The U.S. Coast Guard said it is monitoring the situation. Petty Officer 1st Class George Degener said the Greenpeace climbers are not impeding any waterway traffic under the St. Johns Bridge. He said it was “Shell’s prerogative” when the Fennica could depart from the dock. “We are aware of what’s going on,” Deneger said.
Shell’s high-risk, high-cost mission in the Arctic could usher in an oil-and-gas bonanza if successful, energy experts say. Alaska’s slice of the Chukchi Sea holds the equivalent of 29 billion barrels of oil and gas -- more than twice the global reserves Shell can currently pump at a profit.
The Anglo-Dutch energy giant has already spent around $7 billion on the project, which has suffered significant delays in the past three years, including a series of accidents and operational problems. One of the company’s offshore oil rigs ran aground and had to be towed, and a containment dome designed to cap runaway wells failed a crucial test.
In response, the Obama administration in 2013 halted all drilling activity in the region until the safety and environmental concerns were addressed.
On July 22, the U.S. Interior Department’s Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement issued final approval for two oil wells. According to the agency, Shell can focus on only one well at a time, a measure meant to protect wildlife that could delay the pace of Shell’s drilling plans.
“As Shell conducts exploratory activities, we will be monitoring their work around the clock to ensure the utmost safety and environmental stewardship,” Brian Salerno, the agency’s director, said in a statement.
Environmental groups immediately criticized the Obama administration for allowing drilling in U.S. Arctic waters.
“Today’s action is a huge setback for climate action and the health of the Arctic,” Rachel Richardson, who directs Environment America’s Stop Drilling Program, said July 22. “The area is simply too fragile and too remote to ever fully recover from a catastrophic spill.”
The Greenpeace action Wednesday is similar to an effort in Seattle last month to stop another Shell rig. Activists in kayaks -- dubbed “kayaktivists” -- swarmed Shell’s Polar Pioneer drilling rig as it attempted to take off for northern Alaska. The Coast Guard quickly pulled activists out of the way.
U.S. stocks extended gains Wednesday as investors await a statement from the U.S. Federal Reserve this afternoon. The announcement could shed more light on when the central bank plans to lift interest rates this year, which would be the first time in nearly a decade.
The Dow Jones Industrial Average (INDEXDJX:.DJI) gained 45.66 points, or 0.26 percent, to 17,675.93. The S&P 500 index (INDEXSP:.INX) added 5.17 points, or 0.25 percent, to 2,098.73. And the Nasdaq composite (INDEXNASDAQ:.IXIC) edged up 4.20 points, or 0.09 percent, to 5,094.17.
The Federal Open Market Committee, a board of governors at the Federal Reserve that determines the direction of monetary policy, will issue a statement from the central bank at 2 p.m. EDT.  Most market professionals anticipate the Fed could lift rates as soon as September.
“There will be at least one rate hike this year,” said Greg McBride, chief financial analyst at Bankrate.com. “Whether or not it happens in September depends on the economic data we see between now and then, specifically two more jobs reports for July and August.”
Dow component Visa Inc. (NYSE:V) led the index higher, gaining 1.5 percent, while mining equipment maker Caterpillar Inc. (NYSE:CAT) was the biggest decliner, down more than 1 percent.
Seven out of the 10 Standard & Poor's 500 sectors traded higher, led by a nearly 1 percent gain from telecommunications. Energy was the biggest laggard, down just 0.3 percent a day after the sector rebounded as oil prices moved higher.
The Nasdaq composite struggled to hold onto gains Wednesday following a series of mixed corporate results this week from Twitter Inc. and consumer review website Yelp Inc. Earnings season continues in full force this week as nearly a third of the S&P 500, or roughly 160 companies, are due to report results.
Shares of Twitter Inc. (NYSE:TWTR) dropped more than 13 percent Wednesday, a day after the social media company warned of slow user growth. But there was a bright spot: Twitter’s revenue soared 61 percent from a year ago, topping Wall Street forecasts, driven by growth in advertising revenue.
Despite Twitter’s headwinds, S&P Capital IQ reiterated its Buy rating on the company and lowered its 12-month price target by $6 to $44. “Despite a limited sequential gain in monthly active users, we see a healthy growth story,” Scott Kessler, equity analyst at S&P Capital IQ, said in a research note Wednesday.
Meanwhile, shares of Yelp plunged 30 percent to a 52-week low of $23.68 after the consumer review website posted a surprise quarterly loss, as it too faces slowing user growth.
Notable companies reporting after the closing bell Wednesday include Facebook Inc. (NASDAQ:FB), which recently jumped to the eighth most valuable company in the Standard & Poor’s 500 index, worth $267 billion, more than General Electric Company ($261 billion) and JPMorgan Chase & Co. ($251 billion).
U.S. pending home sales -- a forward-looking indicator of home sales -- slipped in June following five straight months of gains, signaling higher prices are beginning to take their toll on home buyers.
The index of pending home sales fell 1.8 percent to a seasonally-adjusted 110.3 in June, the National Association of Realtors said Wednesday. Sales had previously jumped to a nine-year high in May.
However, sales are still 8.2 percent higher than a year ago, the latest sign the housing market continues to gain traction after a shaky start to the year due to harsh winter weather.
"The demand is there for more sales, but the determining factor will be whether or not some of these buyers decide to hold off even longer until supply improves and price growth slows," Lawrence Yun, NAR chief economist, said in the report.
After five consecutive months of increases, pending home sales slipped 1.8 percent in June.  Photo: National Association of Realtors
Oil prices retreated Wednesday, recording their longest streak of daily losses in a year on ongoing fears of oversupply in crude stockpiles. U.S. crude inventories fell by 4.2 million barrels to 459.7 million barrels for the week ended July 24, remaining near levels not seen for this time of year in at least the last 80 years, the Energy Information Administration said Wednesday. 
Following the report, West Texas Intermediate (WTI) crude, the benchmark for U.S. oil prices, fell nearly 1 percent to $47.63 per gallon barrel for September delivery on the New York Mercantile Exchange. On the London ICE Futures Exchange, Brent crude, the global benchmark for oil prices, dropped 0.6 percent to $52.98.
SEATTLE — Dr. Elyse Tung had to break the news to a patient this week that he is HIV-positive. The patient is part of a couple who visited Tung's clinic to discuss a preventive drug called Truvada that protects users from HIV. The couple have an open relationship and both scored high on an index that clinicians use to gauge risk for the virus. The man's partner started taking the drug three months ago, and had tried to convince him to begin treatment ever since.
The untreated partner tested positive for HIV during a mandatory screening in Tung's clinic, but he might also have been protected if he had started the regimen just three months earlier with his partner. Meanwhile, the man who was already on Truvada remained safe from the extremely high viral load that his partner was experiencing in the first months of infection.
At first glance,  Tung looks and acts like a traditional doctor guiding a pair of patients through a difficult medical issue. But she’s actually a pharmacist, and a professor at the University of Washington, who has launched a series of innovative care programs at  Kelley-Ross Prescription Pharmacy in Seattle.
Truvada is more than 90 percent successful in protecting patients from HIV, but only about 44 clinics and physicians offices in Washington state have registered with the Washington State Department of Health to say that they will provide it to patients. That's where Dr. Elyse Tung thinks pharmacists can step in. Photo: Amy Nordrum
There’s a joke in healthcare that pharmacists are the most overqualified professionals in the industry. Pharmacy students learn to do everything from counseling diabetic patients to administering high-risk anticoagulation therapy. But once they graduate, most revert to dispensing pills because a pharmacy’s revenue depends on the throughput of medicine.
Tung wants to change all that. She and other advocates argue that allowing pharmacists to take on more responsibility in the healthcare system can expand patient access to medication, save money and improve health. So earlier this year, Tung purchased screening equipment and schooled herself on the appropriate use of Truvada. She began accepting patients at high risk for HIV at her pharmacy in March. Since then, 88 patients have received Truvada from her clinic in just five months compared with 15 in 2014.
“It's been way more successful than we ever imagined,” she says. To her knowledge, Kelley-Ross is the first community pharmacy in the country to dispense Truvada without requiring patients to visit a physician.
Tung says her program could catch on if state regulators across the country follow those in Washington state who have granted pharmacists permission to provide more services -- and bill insurers for those services, just like doctors.
“If we can do it, than any pharmacist can do it,” Tung says.
     Dr. Annalisa Thomas (left) and Dr. Elyse Tung (right) at Kelley-Ross Prescription Pharmacy in Seattle. Together, they lead the pharmacy's program to provide Truvada for patients at high risk of acquiring HIV. Photo: Amy Nordrum
However, it's not so easy for pharmacists as eager as Tung to do more for patients in every state. For decades, doctors have staunchly opposed the idea that pharmacists should be trusted with greater responsibility. They worry that pharmacists will steal business away from their offices as patients visit pharmacies for services that doctors have provided.
In May, Washington became the first state to require that health insurance companies consider pharmacists as healthcare providers alongside doctors and nurses. That means pharmacists, as of Jan. 1, will be able to bill for their services just as a physician bills a patient for each appointment.
Already, pharmacists in Washington have provided clinical services that fall outside the scope of dispensing pills to 5 million patients in the past 15 years -- but weren’t directly paid for any of this work.
The campaign to earn reimbursement, led by Jeff Rochon, CEO of the Washington State Pharmacy Association, exploited a 1995 law known as the Every Category of Health Care Providers law. It requires insurers to cover at least one provider in every type of specialty. By arguing that pharmacists are healthcare providers, too, pharmacists persuaded officials that insurers were in violation of this policy. Many other states have Every Category of Health Care Providers laws and Rochon thinks pharmacists elsewhere will soon point to Washington’s law as a precedent to earn reimbursement.
A Pharmacist’s Duty
Pharmacists have long administered flu shots and ushered patients through smoking cessation programs. Supporters believe they should also be permitted to prescribe birth control, distribute Truvada and dole out travel medicines in states where this is not yet within their purview. Such tasks do not require a diagnosis; a patient simply needs to say that she wants birth control or will be traveling to a foreign country where malaria is endemic.
“Nobody really wanted to go to pharmacy school to count by fives,” says Dr. Kathy Hill Besinque, associate professor at the USC School of Pharmacy and former president of the California Pharmacists Association. “These are the things they really like doing -- taking care of patients. The more things that can be done to make that easier, I think the more pharmacists will do it.”
The idea of allowing pharmacists to provide more services is gaining momentum. Earlier this month, Oregon Gov. Kate Brown signed a bill allowing women to receive birth control directly from their pharmacists as of Jan. 1. California passed a similar law in 2013 that will take effect Oct. 1. However, neither state has passed a law similar to Washington’s that would reimburse pharmacists for the time they spend on these tasks.
Besinque thinks pursuing reimbursement is the obvious next step for California pharmacists. “If you're managing patients and you can't submit a bill, you can't really do it very long because you can't stay in business,” she says.
Elsewhere in the world, pharmacists are already completing extra services and receiving payment for it. The British government pays pharmacists $40 for 10-minute medication counseling. Switzerland pays pharmacists for the time they spend lining out a patient's medicines for the week.
Pharmacists can help patients manage their medicines through one-on-one consultations, weekly planning and follow-up calls. But in most states, they can't bill for the time they spend on these tasks. Tung says more pharmacists would take the time to provide this service if they were being paid for it.  Photo: Amy Nordrum
U.S pharmacists note that reimbursing them for the time they spend on these and other services will save the healthcare system money. Rear Adm. Scott F. Giberson, a pharmacist who co-authored a  2011 U.S. Surgeon’s General report,  has argued that every dollar spent on pharmacists saves the healthcare system four dollars.
A real-world demonstration of that concept, called  the Asheville Project, took place in North Carolina from 2002 to 2005. The City of Asheville hired community pharmacists to counsel 620 employees on managing their diabetes for three years. At the end, 67 percent of employees had reached their target blood pressure. As a group, their risk of a heart attack or stroke was sliced in half. The overall cost of healthcare for both the city and patients dropped by 45 percent.
Harvard University’s  Center for Health Law and Policy Innovation later found that a program modeled off the Asheville Project -- which sent diabetes patients to counseling from pharmacists, among other features -- resulted in lower blood pressure and levels of harmful cholesterol, greater patient satisfaction and a  10.8 percent reduction  in healthcare costs.
Besinque says there are plenty of opportunities for additional savings. She cites birth control as an example: A pharmacist will simply prescribe birth control to a patient who wants it while a doctor may also conduct and bill for a Pap smear, even though these examinations are not required.
Gerald Kominski  , director of the Center for Health Policy Research at University of California, Los Angeles, points out that physician and clinical services make up  20 percent  of the nation’s healthcare spending, so cutting even a fraction of this expense by shifting services to pharmacists could make a difference.
“I think this is the kind of innovation we need in the healthcare delivery system in the U.S.” he says.
In Tung’s clinic, the service she provides is faster than what a primary physician can offer. Patients who visit a physician must wait for test results before picking up Truvada from a pharmacy. The process takes three to four weeks. Tung can run tests, prescribe the drug and dispense it in just an hour during a single visit.
Proceed With Caution
However,  Devon Herrick, a fellow who specializes in healthcare at the National Center for Policy Analysis, worries that pharmacists will abuse their new power to bill payers, as doctors and nurses  have done in the past.
"I don't have a problem with pharmacists counseling seniors on multiple drugs," he says. "What I would not want to happen is every single time a senior goes into a drugstore, there's an automatic charge to Medicare Part D and a claim to Medicare Part B for consultation."
Herrick is also not convinced that laws requiring insurance companies to reimburse pharmacists will catch on outside of Washington state. Insurers will likely oppose such measures because savings to the healthcare system do not directly translate to their bottom line.
“When pharmacists talk about charging for their consultations, what they generally mean is, ‘We know patients never pay us but here's a way for us to gouge the insurance companies,’” he says.
In January, legislators in both the House and Senate introduced bills to permit Medicare to reimburse pharmacists for some services such as medication counseling to seniors. Both bills were referred to committees and have remained there ever since.
Advocates who push to expand pharmacists’ roles in other states will also have to face off against doctors who have long begrudged the idea that pharmacists should take on more responsibility. The American Medical Association has opposed pharmacists' efforts to counsel patients on medicines, through a resolution calling it “pharmacy intrusion into medical practice,”  and rejected the idea that pharmacists should have authority to write prescriptions.
“The American Medical Association encourages physician-led healthcare teams that ensure healthcare clinicians work together as the ideal way to provide high quality and efficient care. Pharmacists are valuable members of this team, and patients win when each member of their healthcare team plays the role they are educated and trained to play,” the organization said statement sent to International Business Times.
David Howard, a health economist at Emory University, says that stubborn stance doesn’t help patients or the healthcare system.
“It sets a bad precedent. They want to maintain the idea that all care must be under a physician's supervision,” he says. “It's more expensive and it limits the ability of the healthcare system to take advantage of alternative providers, and limits access to care.”
Pharmacists have learned to look for ways that reimbursement can benefit both fields, and presumably patient health, all at once. At Kelley-Ross, every patient is required to see a primary care physician within a year of participating in the Truvada program. Pharmacists say these measures are in the best interests of patients, though they also conveniently assuage doctors’ fears that pharmacists are stealing their business.
“There’s plenty of work for everybody,” Besinque says.
Chinese stock markets rallied Wednesday after a major government intervention, bouncing back to end the day more than 3 percent in positive territory, after sustained losses that raised worries of further panic. 
After a severe fall of over 8 percent on Monday in the Shanghai Composite index, which wiped off over $600 billion in market value, the country’s securities regulator announced that it would probe malicious share “dumping” and promised to buy more stocks in order to calm the market. It also made major Chinese brokers promise to purchase stocks and hold on to them until China’s troubled markets showed signs of health. On Tuesday, the government announced it would buy more shares to support flailing stock values.
On Wednesday, the country’s main Shanghai Composite index ended a three-day slide by closing up 3.5 percent at 3,789 while the Shenzhen Component index closed up 4.1 percent at 2,199. The fall, which started Monday, broke a three-week rally led by major intervention from China’s government and its central bank, the People's Bank of China.
The latest move comes after weeks of volatility in which the country’s indexes fell precipitously, causing the financial regulator and central bank to take extraordinary measures that saw half of the country’s listed companies suspend trading at one point. The government ordered brokerages to buy local stock worth about $20 billion, and extracted a promise that they would not be sold until the Shanghai Composite hit 4,500.
Reuters also reported, citing three people familiar with the country’s banking industry, that the central bank had returned some funds it had borrowed from commercial banks ahead of schedule in order to inject liquidity into the market. 
Beijing has also promised to deal harshly with those found to be short-selling stock. Authorities previously said they found preliminary evidence of market manipulation.
The fresh round of volatility spooked the country’s 90 million individual investors as well as foreign traders, who question the market’s reliance on heavy-handed state intervention and the effectiveness of these measures.
"Some of the things they've done have been, to a degree, irrational," Sat Duhra, fund manager at Henderson Global Investors, told Reuters. "It's very important that if China does want to be seen as a credible destination for foreign capital, then some of these things have to be more measured and thought out."
The ruling Communist Party has also grown worried over China’s flagging economic performance. China clocked a growth rate of just 7 percent in the first quarter of 2015 -- its lowest in six years -- that prompted a round of action that includes shaming the country’s bureaucracy into action. Despite poor economic indicators, the country’s main stock indexes had more than doubled over the year leading up to mid-June, before the sudden jolt that caused them to lose over 30 percent of their value in a few weeks between June and July.
BERLIN (Reuters) - A Greek exit from the euro zone would cause "utter chaos" but would have to be accepted if Athens was not willing to implement reforms, Chancellor Angela Merkel's Bavarian ally Horst Seehofer told German newspaper Die Welt on Wednesday.
"No one can predict the consequences of a Grexit other than that a lot of Greece's debts would have to be written off and at the same time monetary help would be necessary," Seehofer, state premier of Bavaria, said to the paper.
"On top of that there would be utter chaos. If Greece were not prepared to reform, a path like that would have to be accepted but one shouldn't strive for it oneself or organize it."
Seehofer's Christian Social Union (CSU) has taken a tougher stance on Greece thanMerkel's party. Some CSU members have been among the most vocal in calling for Greece to leave the euro zone, with Bavarian finance minister Markus Soeder pleading last month for an "orderly" Grexit.
Seehofer said he shared Merkel's view that a debt haircut for Greece should not be considered but that debt relief measures were "responsible".
Asked about Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble's proposal that Greece could take a five-year "time-out" from the euro zone, Seehofer said he did not consider this to be an option.
Earlier this month German lawmakers gave the euro zone the green light to negotiate a third bailout for Greece, but there was a sizeable conservative rebellion.
Asked if the third bailout for Greece would be the last one, Seehofer said: "If what has now been decided works and is done, we have the problems under control."
He said Merkel would continue to have his full support as long as she continued to call for reforms in return for solidarity.
Boeing Co and the Airbus Group are in talks with SpiceJet Limited, a low-cost airline based in India that is looking to buy more than 100 single-aisle passenger airplanes in a deal worth $11 billion, Bloomberg reported Wednesday, citing SpiceJet Chairman Ajay Singh. The carrier is reportedly interested in Airbus A320neo jets and Boeing's 737 Max planes.
If the deal goes in Airbus' favor, it will add SpiceJet to the European company's list of buyers in the region, which include Indigo and the Indian counterparts of Singapore Airlines Ltd. and AirAsia Bhd., the Bloomberg report said. The agreement could be signed this financial year, Singh told Bloomberg, in an interview Tuesday. SpiceJet operates 18 Boeing 737s and two Airbus A320s on a wet lease.
“We will bring in some investments at the time of the order,” Singh said, according to Bloomberg, adding: “The order will depend on what volume level we get at what price.”
Last March, SpiceJet ordered 42 Boeing 737 MAX planes, which were valued at $4.4 billion. The model is an updated version of Boeing’s 737, which is the most widely-used passenger jet in the world.
SpiceJet, which is owned by billionaire Kalanithi Maran’s Sun Group, posted a net income of 718.5 million rupees ($11 million) on Tuesday, compared to a loss of 1.24 billion rupees last year. Following news of the potential deal, the carrier's stock rose more than 3.5 percent on the BSE Sensex Wednesday.
India's growing passenger air-travel market will create a need for 1,600 new planes, valued at $205 billion, over the next two decades, Bloomberg reported, citing a report released by Boeing last year.
Shares of Yelp Inc. (NYSE:YELP) plunged more than 15 percent Tuesday in extended-hours trading after the company posted a surprise quarterly loss. The stock tumbled further after the company announced Chairman Max Levchin would step down from the board to pursue other interests, effective immediately.
The report comes as the company faces slowing subscriber growth since its initial public offering in 2012. The San Francisco company, which has a market value of nearly $2.5 billion, has seen its stock tumble more than 50 percent in the last 12 months. Since its IPO, users have written more than 83 million reviews on the site, according to the company, covering everything from dining to hotels and travel.
The site averages more than 162 million unique visitors monthly, including mobile and desktop users, up 17 percent from a year ago, but still down from a growth rate of 27 percent a year ago. 
Following the announcement, Yelp’s stock fell more than 15 percent to as low as $27.70 in after-hours trading.
Shares of Yelp plunged more than 15 percent after the bell Tuesday.  Photo: Google Finance
Shares were also under pressure earlier this month following a report that the consumer review website is no longer exploring a sale, Bloomberg reported.
The company announced plans in February to buy Eat24, an online and app-based food-ordering service in San Bruno, California, for $134 million. Yelp’s transactions revenue totaled $11.3 million, compared to $1.2 million a year ago, primarily due to the acquisition of Eat24.
"Our core local advertising business remains strong, and we are investing in Yelp's future," Rob Krolik, Yelp's chief financial officer, said in a statement Tuesday. "We expect local advertising will continue to be our primary driver of growth as we work toward our goal of generating $1 billion of revenue in 2017."
Yelp reported a fiscal second-quarter loss of $1.31 million, or earnings per share of 2 cents, on revenue of $133.91 million, compared with a profit of $2.74 million, or earnings per share of 4 cents, on revenue of $88.79 million a year ago.
The company’s revenue slightly beat Wall Street forecasts of $133 million. However, Yelp's revenue outlook for the current quarter and the year also missed estimates, disappointing investors.
Shares of Yelp have lost nearly 40 percent of their value since January. 
Meanwhile, another social media company -- Twitter Inc. (NYSE:TWTR) -- saw its shares drop more than 10 percent in extended-hours trading Tuesday after executives warned of slow user growth. The move erased a 5 percent gain following the closing bell after the social media company's revenue soared 61 percent from a year ago, topping Wall Street forecasts, driven by growth in advertising revenue.
Twitter continues to face tough shareholder questions about slowing user growth since its initial public offering in November 2013.
"We don’t expect to see sustained, meaningful growth (in monthly active users) until we reach the mass market,” Chief Financial Officer Anthony Noto said during its conference call with shareholders Tuesday. "We expect it to take a considerable period of time."
Shares of Twitter dropped more than 10 percent to as low as $32.25 in after-hours trading.
Shares of Twitter tumbled more than 10 percent after the closing bell Tuesday. Photo: Google Finance
Twitter’s key measure of growth -- average monthly active users -- came in at 304 million for the April-June quarter, 12 percent higher than a year ago. However, that’s only up from 302 million in the prior quarter.
But the gains pale in comparison to Facebook, which has more active monthly users than Twitter and LinkedIn Corp. combined. Facebook announced in April it officially has more monthly active users (1.44 billion) than China has people (1.4 billion).
Twitter reported a fiscal second-quarter loss of $136.7 million, or earnings per share of 21 cents, as revenue rose 61 percent to $502.38 million, compared to a loss of $144.6 million, or earnings per share of 24 cents, on revenue of $312.2 million a year ago.
Wall Street had projected Twitter to report a fiscal second-quarter loss of $177.3 million, or earnings per share of 27 cents, on revenue of $481.3 million, according to analysts polled by Thomson Reuters. Excluding items, Twitter earned 7 cents per share, beating Wall Street forecasts. 
Shares of Twitter have dipped 4 percent in the last 12 months. 
The Federal Aviation Administration may be taking its time preparing for our drone-filled future, but Amazon is flying full-speed ahead. Gur Kimchi, the head of Amazon’s drone delivery division, unveiled a regulatory proposal Tuesday that would give the company a 200-foot swath of the sky for an armada of delivery drones. The retail behemoth also called for the creation of a computer-based method to monitor their movements.
Kimchi’s concept, which he unveiled at a conference hosted by NASA, would have Amazon’s drones flying at a low altitude, about 100 feet below the airspace normally reserved for airplanes, operated by a large, centralized computer system rather than a squadron of individual pilots.
The fleet would be, in the words of Kimchi’s proposal, “managed by exception,” meaning that computers would control everything, though it would allow human operators to take the drones out of the sky in case of emergency.
An image from Amazon's drone regulation proposal shows where its fleet of delivery drones could -- and couldn't -- fly. The company has asked for 200 feet of airspace. Photo: Amazon
Paradigm Shift “Is Necessary”
In keeping with the rest of what Amazon does, the company’s ambitions for the scale of its drone program are vast. So vast, in fact, that it believes an entirely new framework will be required to monitor its drones.
At present, federal regulations require human air traffic controllers to monitor every flight that occurs over the United States. The amount of aircraft allowed in the sky, some 85,000 flights per day, is tethered to the number of air traffic controllers employed.
But as drone operations like Amazon’s come online, that 85,000 flight total “is likely to be dwarfed” by the number of drones Amazon and other companies intend to put in the air.
To make that work, Amazon will need a different kind of system overseeing its operations. “Amazon believes the current model of airspace management will not meet future SUAS [Small Unmanned Aerial System] demands,” its proposal reads.  “A paradigm shift in airspace management and operations is necessary to safely accommodate the one-operator-to-many-vehicle model [that is] required by large-scale commercial fleets.”
The brightest prospect for a system that might make this possible is a NASA project designed to monitor drone air traffic, though it is far from being robust enough to monitor traffic of the kind that Amazon envisions.
Next Steps
Over the past few years, the FAA has given Amazon a long leash as it makes its way toward a regulatory framework for commercial drone operations within the United States. Earlier this year, the federal agency awarded Amazon an exception that allowed the company to begin testing drones.
But it is also not the only huge company that has its eyes on the sky. Google, which, like Amazon, was a primary sponsor of the conference where Amazon’s proposal was unveiled, is scheduled to introduce its own proposal Wednesday.
It’s been a volatile few days for Tesla Motors Inc. (Nasdaq:TSLA). After its shares were battered Monday, along with those of other luxury carmakers, investors shed their fears of an imminent China meltdown and Tesla Motors' stock gained 4.67 percent to $264.82, recovering most of what it lost in the week’s first session.
Luxury automakers who all have China in their sights for future growth might still be in for a rough ride if wealthy Chinese consumers in the world’s largest auto market pull back on new-car sales. Tesla shares are nearly flat for the past 30 days but up about 19 percent for the year.The next expected catalyst for the company will come Aug. 5 during its second-quarter earnings announcement.
Tesla management will outline progress in constructing its massive “Gigafactory” battery production facility in Nevada and give signals on the prospect of hitting its goal of 55,000 unit sales for the year. CEO Elon Musk will undoubtedly be asked during the company’s second-quarter conference call next week how a China slowdown would affect future sales projections.
Shares of other luxury carmakers heavily exposed to China’s economy also rebounded, including Volkswagen AG (FRA:VOW), which gained 3.34 percent to 191.80 euros ($173.44). Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (FRA:BMW) gained 1.84 percent to 88.91 euros ($81.88).
Ford Motor Co. boss Mark Fields said during Ford’s second-quarter conference call Tuesday morning that his company reduced production in the Asia-Pacific region in recent months in response to China’s slowdown.
It’s clear we’ve seen a market slowdown [in China],” he told analysts. “[But] we have to put this market in perspective. It’s the biggest market in the world right now. … There are fluctuations in a market like this, but we’re going to work through it.”
Ford Motor Co. (NYSE:F) shares jumped 1.78 percent to $14.84 after it posted its best quarterly profit in 15 years. Net income came in at $1.9 billion, or 47 cents per share, soundly beating estimates. The company also expects better performance in the next six months.
U.S. stocks rallied Tuesday, with the Dow Jones Industrial Average leaping nearly 200 points, shaking off global concerns after China's stock market suffered its greatest single-day loss since 2007 a day earlier. All 10 Standard & Poor's 500 sectors closed higher, led by a 3 percent gain from the energy sector, which also helped boost the industrials and materials sectors around 2 percent.
The Dow (INDEXDJX:.DJI) soared 189.68 points, or 1.09 percent, to close at 17,630.27. The S&P 500 index (INDEXSP:.INX) added 25.61 points, or 1.24 percent, to end at 2,093.25. And the Nasdaq composite (INDEXNASDAQ:.IXIC) gained 49.43 points, or 0.98 percent, to finish at 5,089.21.
Nearly all 30 stocks in the Dow closed higher as energy led Tuesday, with Exxon Mobil Corporation (NYSE:XOM) and Chevron Corporation (NYSE:CVX) gaining, 4 percent and 3.6 percent, respectively. Chemical maker DuPont Co. (NYSE:DD) and software company Microsoft Corporation (NASDAQ:MSFT) were the only decliners in the index, closing down 1.5 percent and 0.02 percent, respectively.
Energy stocks received a boost when oil prices turned higher after bouncing back from nearly six-month lows. The rally was helped as investors forecast a drop in U.S. crude stockpiles for last week. The U.S. Energy Information Administration will release its weekly data on commercial crude oil inventories at 10:30 a.m. EDT Wednesday.
Oil has been weighed down recently on renewed fears of oversupply as Iran and global powers reached a nuclear deal. The agreement would remove Western sanctions against Tehran and investors fear it could affect a global oil market already facing oversupply.
"Oversupply and the looming return of exports from Iran are undoubtedly weighing on oil prices," Tom Pugh, a commodities economist at Capital Economics, said in a research note Tuesday. "However, prices are likely to continue to be more influenced by sentiment toward commodities in general and by developments in China in particular."
Investor sentiment toward industrial commodities has soured further over the past week, and the main source of concern has been a renewed slump in Chinese stock prices over the last few days, sparking fears about China's economy, which has dragged the prices of industrial commodities, especially oil, down even further.
But Pugh expects China to avoid a hard landing as growth in the world's second-largest economy actually picked up toward the end of the second quarter. "The authorities still have plenty of tools to boost support to the economy, and indeed the equity market, if recent turbulence shows signs of getting out of hand," Pugh said. 
West Texas Intermediate (WTI) crude, the benchmark for U.S. oil prices, added 1.24 percent to close at $47.98 per gallon barrel for September delivery on the New York Mercantile Exchange. On the London ICE Futures Exchange, Brent crude, the global benchmark for oil prices, fell 20 cents to $53.30.
Economists are turning their attention to the U.S. Federal Reserve’s two-day policy meeting this week. The Federal Open Market Committee will issue a statement from the central bank at 2 p.m. EDT Wednesday that could shed more light on the central bank’s plan to lift interest rates sometime this year. Those rates have hovered at historic lows since the financial crisis of 2007-09. Most economists anticipate the Fed will remain on course to lift rates in September.
Earnings season continues in full force this week as nearly one-third of the Standard & Poor's 500, or about 160 companies, are due to report results, including social media giants Facebook Inc., Twitter Inc. and LinkedIn Corp. Analysts now expect overall earnings from S&P 500 companies to dip 0.3 percent, compared with the 3 percent decline expected at the start of July, according to Thomson Reuters data.
About 200 companies in the S&P 500 have reported earnings so far, and roughly 72 percent of them have beat Wall Street estimates, according to S&P Capital IQ.
Following the closing bell Tuesday, Twitter is scheduled to post results for the April-June quarter after CEO Dick Costolo stepped down on July 1. The former chief executive faced tough shareholder questions about slowing user growth.
Twitter reported 302 million active monthly users for the first quarter of 2015, up 18 percent from 255 million a year earlier. But the gains pale in comparison to Facebook, which has more active monthly users than Twitter and LinkedIn combined. Facebook announced in April that it officially has more monthly active users (1.44 billion) than China has people (1.4 billion).
Twitter needs to demonstrate it can grow users and monetize them in a positive fashion compared to their competitors, says James Gellert, chairman and chief executive officer at Rapid Ratings International Inc. “Whether they like it or not, Facebook is the competitor people look at for social media and advertising, and Facebook is doing a really great job,” Gellert said. 
Adam Sarhan, founder and chief executive officer of Sarhan Capital agrees, saying Facebook’s stock is well positioned to continue its upward trajectory. “Facebook is firing on multiple cylinders,” said Adam Sarhan, founder and CEO of Sarhan Capital. “There’s huge growth potential for the company, and that’s why investors are paying up.”
Here’s a deeper look at the social media companies reporting this week.
Tuesday
Although Twitter Inc.'s (NYSE:TWTR) quarterly profit beat estimates in the first quarter of 2015, revenue and mobile monthly active users both missed forecasts. The company also cut its earnings outlook for 2015.
In parallel, Twitter has made an aggressive bet on video through applications like Vine and the recently acquired Periscope, which allows users to stream live videos from their mobile phones. Other acquisitions during the second quarter include TenXer, a collaboration platform; TellApart, an advertising-sales solution; and Whetlab, a machine learning startup.
Wall Street projects Twitter is to report a fiscal second-quarter loss of $177.3 million, or earnings per share of 27 cents, on revenue of $481.3 million, according to analysts polled by Thomson Reuters. That compares with a loss of $144.6 million, or earnings per share of 24 cents, on revenue of $312.2 million a year ago.
Shares of the company have lost nearly 17 percent of their value since Twitter's initial public offering on Nov. 7, 2013.
Wednesday
Shares of Facebook Inc. (NASDAQ:FB) hit another an all-time high last week after the company leapfrogged over U.S. multinational conglomerate General Electric to make it the eighth most valuable company in the Standard & Poor’s 500 index. The Menlo Park, California, company is currently valued at around $267 billion, above General Electric Company ($261 billion) and JPMorgan Chase & Co. ($251 billion).
Facebook joined Apple Inc., Microsoft Corporation and Google Inc. on the list of most-valued companies, after knocking Wal-Mart Stores Inc. out of the top 10 highest-valued companies in the S&P 500 in June.
The company is forecast to report fiscal second-quarter net income of $666.3 million, or earnings per share of 24 cents, on revenue of $3.9 billion, compared with a profit of $791 million, or earnings per share of 30 cents, on revenue of $2.9 billion a year ago.
Shares of Facebook have gained approximately 25 percent in the last 12 months.
Thursday
Professional networking company LinkedIn Corp. (NYSE:LNKD) slashed its full-year forecast, citing lower demand for advertising. The company said spending on display ads fell 10 percent in the first three months of the year.
The company’s hiring subsidiary Talent Solutions, which accounts for 62 percent of LinkedIn’s total revenue, saw its revenue rise 36 percent in the quarter ended March 31. The Mountain View, California, company cut its full-year outlook, forecasting a profit of $1.90 per share, excluding items, on revenue of about $2.90 billion, down from a previous forecast for earnings of $2.95 per share on revenue of $2.93 billion to $2.95 billion.
LinkedIn is forecast to report a fiscal second-quarter loss of $133.02 million, or earnings per share of $1.23, on revenue of $679.96 million, compared with a loss of $1.03 million, or earnings per share of 1 cent, on revenue of $533.88 million a year ago.
Shares of LinkedIn have rallied 24 percent during the last 12 months.
 
New York’s looming wage hike doesn’t make much sense to James Cammilleri. He owns three Burger King franchises upstate -- one just south of Buffalo, another near Rochester, and another one in Medina, about equidistant from both cities.
“Why are we being singled out?” he asks. “You say to yourself, why isn’t Wegman’s going to be imposed a $15 wage? It just doesn’t make sense.”
The popular upstate grocery store Cammilleri refers to pays the current statewide minimum wage of $8.75 an hour, set to rise to $9 by 2016, according to state law. But fast-food restaurants like the Burger Kings owned by Cammilleri will soon have to play by a different set of rules, thanks to recent recommendations from a special wage panel. Under the proposals, which the state is soon expected to approve, all fast-food chains with 30 or more locations nationwide will have to shell out at least $15 an hour by July 2021. Stores in New York City face an earlier deadline, of 2019. The first phase-ins take effect next year.
Conventional wisdom says it’s good news for fast-food workers. But what about their employers?
“We’re really in uncharted territory since neither New York nor any other state has had a wage this high,” says Jay Holland, government affairs coordinator for the New York State Restaurant Association, which bitterly opposes the wage board recommendation. “This sort of economic regulation is untested.”
So far, only a handful of cities have passed $15 minimum wages -- Seattle, San Francisco and Los Angeles. Unlike New York’s impending raise, those increases all apply across the board, not to a specific sector. No city currently mandates $15 an hour, although Seattle and San Francisco both began their respective phase-ins earlier this year. As the so-called Fight For $15 gains traction, these spots will be under close scrutiny. The two cities provide some clues as to how fast-food employers are adjusting to higher wages.
The Sky Hasn’t Fallen -- Yet
When confronted with increases in the minimum wage, restaurants have few immediate options. They can raise prices, fire people, cut hours, swallow the higher costs -- or pursue some combination of these.
David Jones owns two Subway franchises in Seattle that employ eight people each. When the minimum wage jumped from $9.47 to $11 an hour in April, Jones increased prices at both stores by 4 percent. Business went on just fine, he says. “I didn’t lose customers and my increase in price paid for my labor, so I did really well with this,” Jones says.
Researchers say it’s too soon to fully measure the impact of ongoing wage hikes in Seattle and San Francisco. Anecdotal evidence, though, suggests Jones’ experience is fairly common. Earlier this month, Chipotle announced it was lifting prices by 7 percent to 10 percent at its more than 80 San Francisco stores in response to the city’s new minimum wage of $12.25. Those higher prices have had no effect on business so far, according to the company.
To be sure, a number of small businesses have said they’re closing up shop because of the new pay floors. But the doomsday scenario of store closures and mass layoffs predicted by opponents of higher wages has yet to materialize.
There's still plenty of time left, though. And Subway owner David Jones says he’s especially worried about the next stage of the phase-in.
Starting in January, Jones must pay his employees at least $12.50 an hour, since the new law considers Subway a “large employer.” Meanwhile, small businesses -- including other restaurants -- will have to pay just $12. Even though everyone will eventually have to pay $15, Jones says next year’s pay gap will put him at a competitive disadvantage with nearby low-cost food options. One of his stores, next to Seattle University, competes with six small-business restaurants. The new law “will force us all to have different price increases,” Jones says -- something that risks upsetting or confusing customers. “That’s when it gets scary.”
Activists with the Fight For 15 protested outside a Seattle Subway in August 2013. Photo: Reuters/David Ryder
In New York, Cammilleri’s stores will compete with restaurants paying even lower wages. He hasn’t done all the math yet, but he expects he’ll have to raise prices while cutting hours and considering layoffs for about a third of his 60 employees. “There’s no way to just raise prices and absorb the new costs,” he says.
Little Help From Franchisors
As they adjust to higher labor costs, both Jones and Cammilleri say they expect little help from the larger Burger King and Subway corporations -- the multibillion-dollar companies that labor advocates and politicians often deride for promoting exploitative labor practices.
When the corporations don’t own their stores themselves, they charge business owners tens of thousands of dollars a year in royalties for use of the brand name and advertising. In theory, the big corporations could ease the burden of looming wage hikes on their franchisees by drawing down their annual fees or by giving financial assistance to businesses.
Jones points to the popular $5 Footlong promotion. He says many Subway franchisees he spoke with consistently lost money on the deal and nobody ever received any financial assistance from the parent corporation. “We never got a break from that, so why would it happen for this? ... If I go out of business, they’ll have a new store in that location in one month.”
Cammilleri, who says he pays Burger King 7.5 percent of his annual revenue in royalties, agrees any kind of bailout or reduction in fees is highly unlikely. “I just don’t seem them reducing our fees.”
It’s Probably Going To Be Okay
Traditionally, economists assumed that increases in the minimum wage translated into modest job losses. Heated debates on this point abound, but new research suggests higher pay floors have little impact on employment overall. The prospects of sudden increases in labor costs may seem daunting to employers, but companies tend to earn the money back, this newer batch of research finds.
Michael Reich, director of the Institute for Research on Labor and Employment at the University of California, Berkeley, stands firmly in this camp, and authored a key study on the topic for the Los Angeles City Council.
“Many careful studies show that minimum wage cost increases are mainly absorbed through reduced employee turnover costs, increased productivity of more experienced workers and modest price increases,” he says.
Reich points to a 2007 study that found fast-food prices go up 0.7 percent for every 10 percent increase in the minimum wage. In other words, it's a modest bump. That $5 sandwich from McDonald's might cost $5.14 next year in New York. 
Still, no real empirical evidence exists for pay hikes of this scale. “What works in Los Angeles," says Holland, the official from the restaurant lobby, "might not work in Potsdam or Oswego.”
If imitation is the sincerest form of flattery, then China is home to the world’s most ingratiating automakers. It’s not uncommon for a few of China’s dozens of domestic automakers to show up at auto shows in Shanghai and Guangzhou with a few blatant design rip-offs.
Now, Tesla Motors has become the latest foreign automaker to be flattered with the introduction of a Chinese variant that borrows heavily from the Silicon Valley electric car manufacturer. On Sunday in Beijing, Shanghai's Youxia Motors introduced the Youxia X, what it calls China’s first all-electric sports car.
The Youxia X (left) bears similar design ques to the Tesla Model S.  Photo: Youxia Motors (left); Tesla Motors (right)
“A bit of Tesla up front, but certainly not too much,” CarNewsChina.com says. The car is expected to be released late next year for a starting price of 200,000 yuan (about $32,000) -- or about one-quarter the price of the Model S in China.
The vehicle is the brainchild of 28-year-old Huang Xiuyaun, a fan of the 1980s American television series “Knight Rider,” about a tech-savvy crime fighter (played by David Hasselhoff) and his sidekick KITT, an artificially intelligent 1982 Pontiac Trans Am. The Youxia X has an animated front end that mimics KITT’s illuminated front end scanner bar. It’s displayed from a front-facing digital screen that can be personalized with different icons. No word on how the screen would fare in a front-end collision.
Inside, the Youxia X is the first car planned with a Tesla-like center console touch screen. The operating system graphics are similar, too Photo: Youxia Motors
"My dream has always been that I wanted it to be like ‘Knight Rider’’s cool car," Huang said during Sunday’s event, according to the Chinese-language cncms.com. The company says the car is aimed to compete with the Tesla Model 3, due out in 2018, and will sport a range of 265 miles per fully charged 85 kWh battery.
While not a carbon copy of the Model S, the Youxia X certainly has overt Tesla Model S design cues, including the bulbous nose, wheel rims, and flush door handles of the Tesla Model S. Inside harbors a large rectangular LCD dashboard touch screen and digital instrument panel with similar icons as Tesla’s Linux-based operating system.
Chinese automakers have long been known to borrow extensively from foreign automakers. On the left is the Brilliance V5 crossover. On the right is the BMW X1. Brilliance is one of China’s Big 10 automakers.  Photo: Brilliance Auto Group (left); BMW (right)
The Youxia X’s Y-shape logo is hints at Tesla’s “T” trademark, which became part of a legal battle in 2013 between Tesla and local trademark squatter Zhan Baosheng, who rushed to China’s patent and trademark office before Tesla and snatched away the company’s preferred Chinese name. Zhan failed, however, to block Tesla’s use of its logo and name in China, and Tesla took back the www.tesal.cn Web address that had previously displayed Zhan’s purportedly planned electric car.
On the left is the BYD S8; on the right a Mercedes CLK. BYD is a major manufacturer of electric cars batteries, electric cars and electric buses. Warren Buffet’s Berkshire Hathaway is a BYD investor.  Photo: BYD Auto (left); Diamler AG (right).
The heavy borrowing of design cues from foreign automakers isn’t relegated simply to China’s marginal car companies.
Last year, Jaguar Land Rover was incensed when Changan Auto, one of China’s Big 10 automakers, partnered with Jiangling Motors to release the Landwind SUV, one of the most overt knockoffs of a foreign model. In 2008, Great Wall Motors, China’s largest SUV maker, was blocked from exporting its GWPeri minicar to Europe after Fiat successfully sued over the car’s stark similarity to the Fiat Panda, one of Europe’s best-selling minicars.
The Lifan 330 (left) bears similarities to the Mini Cooper Photo: Lifan Group (left); BMW (right)
Twitter's interim CEO, Jack Dorsey, is shaking up Wall Street customs. The co-founder of Twitter will present his company's second-quarter earnings report not only on the traditional conference call, but also through the network's live-streaming video app Periscope. 
Dorsey made the announcement on Twitter at 1:39 p.m. EDT Tuesday and encouraged people to download the Periscope app and listen in. The company previously boasted that the app received 1 million downloads within the first 10 days of its April release. Twitter (NYSE:TWTR) has yet to release complete user numbers, but it may be one of the talking points during Tuesday's report. The call will also be accessible to investors from the traditional site link: http://investor.twitterinc.com/. 
Hello! Get Periscope to watch our Q2 earnings prepared remarks and Q&amp;A. We go LIVE at 2pm Pacific @TwitterIR. $TWTR https://t.co/TN3r3VLQEN
&mdash; Jack (@jack) July 28, 2015
Those interested in the call can also tweet questions at the company using the hashtag #TWTRearnings. While Twitter hashtags have not typically generated the most positive comments -- take politicians, for example -- the move is an interesting play to engage its investors and users on how the tool can actually be used. It perhaps may even be a way the company could further explain how it can be used during live events, as Twitter previously revealed a new curation initiative called Project Lightning.
Tweet us your questions during our Q2’15 earnings call Tue. 2pm PT @twitterIR using #TWTRearnings.
&mdash; TwitterIR (@TwitterIR) July 27, 2015
The use of Periscope will also provide investors insight into how Twitter's new products can be engaged by a wide variety of parties -- not only politicians and entertainers, but corporate executives like Dorsey himself. This earnings report is key for Dorsey, whose company has repeatedly failed to meet the expectations set by Wall Street while the stock price has yet to recover from the last earnings call, in April. Additionally, Twitter is currently looking for a new chief executive and facing rumors of an acquisition. 
Twitter's earnings call begins at 5 p.m. EDT on Tuesday. At the time of Dorsey's announcement, the stock was up by 4 percent.
Just hours before talks began in what representatives hope to be the final push for the 12-nation Trans-Pacific Partnership trade deal, news came that the U.S. State Department had upgraded its assessment of Malaysia on human trafficking concerns. The move potentially opens the Southeast Asian nation for increased trade with the U.S. 
A key member of the potential trade pact, Malaysia previously had been assigned the State Department’s lowest rating on preventing human trafficking.
Critics pounced on the unexpected decision, alleging political influence from the pending trade deal, which President Barack Obama has vigorously supported. On a call with reporters Tuesday, Rep. Lloyd Doggett, D-Texas, called the move “an unmerited upgrade, a politically inspired upgrade, just because of the TPP.” He continued, “I find it outrageous.”
Malaysia’s human-trafficking ranking is just one of the political snags tripping up trade proponents in the final lap of TPP negotiations, which began Tuesday in Hawaii. As trade representatives pore over technical details, American lawmakers and civil society groups are raising a host of red flags around the deal, from gay rights in Brunei to environmental protections.
In the negotiating room, meanwhile, outstanding disagreements on bread-and-butter trade issues like intellectual property rights and market access remain undecided.
But negotiators are optimistic that they will finalize the deal this week, capping more than five years of deliberations. “I hope that our chief negotiators have advanced the work and will be ready to finish the next five days,” Ildefonso Guajardo Villarreal, Mexico’s trade representative, told Japanese reporters.
The dozen countries making up the TPP -- including Canada, Australia, Thailand and Japan -- make up two-fifths of the world economy. China is not a member of the agreement.
Dairy And Drugs
Though hopes among representatives are reportedly high, they will need to hammer out a number of challenging differences among member countries.
Some of those conflicts will be close at hand. Five envoys of Canadian dairy farmers have descended on the island of Maui, where talks are being held, fighting to preserve tariffs that protect their domestic markets. They’re up against New Zealand’s dairy industry, which accounts for nearly 30 percent of that country’s exports. New Zealand and Australia are seeking to open up markets for milk and cheese.
The U.S., meanwhile, is pushing for intellectual property rights provisions that would grant copyright terms lasting the life of the author plus 70 years, a measure favored by entertainment industry groups. This would be two decades longer than the current international standard of 50 years, preferred by Japan and others.
U.S. Trade Representative Michael Froman is also hoping to score victories on pharmaceuticals. Previously leaked draft agreements have shown the U.S. angling for provisions that would make generic drugs tougher to introduce in member states and extend patent protections for drugs known as biologics, a class of drugs that includes vaccines and anti-toxins.
U.S. Trade Representative Michael Froman speaks to reporters after a meeting with Japanese officials in Tokyo. Japan took a hard line on defending its rice market in trade talks with the United States, as ministers prepared for negotiations that could pave the way for a broader trans-Pacific trade deal. Photo: Reuters/Yuya Shino
Australia and others have resisted those proposals. The international aid group Doctors Without Borders said the measures would have a “devastating impact on global health,” particularly on developing countries. The American pharmaceutical industry, meanwhile, contends that lengthy patent windows are required to recoup multi-billion-dollar investments in new drugs.
On this front, however, negotiators appear to be reaching common ground. The Sydney Morning Herald reported that Froman could reduce the proposed period of protection for biologics from 12 years to seven, potentially placating the deal's holdouts.
Domestic Opposition
If TPP negotiators manage to iron out a deal in the next week, they’ll still have to face probing questions from members of Congress, whose votes will ultimately decide the TPP’s fate. Issues not directly connected to trade continue to pose challenges -- and Malaysia isn’t the only stumbling block.
Republican lawmakers have previously moved to prevent the TPP from forcing the U.S. into any changes in climate change or immigration policy, enraging environmental activists and lawmakers keen on using the largest trade deal in history to ensure wider climate protections.
Environmental groups already against the trade deal promised to redouble their opposition in light of the provision. “This language would make already bad trade pacts even worse for our planet,” said Ilana Solomon, director of the Sierra Club’s trade program, in a statement.
At the same time, legislators have raised concerns over human rights in Brunei, whose Islamic fundamentalist legal code contains provisions that would have gay people stoned to death. “A Shariah-based law is problematic with our institutions that we hold dear in Western democracies,” said Rep. Steve Russell, R-Okla., told the Wall Street Journal.
But Malaysia has emerged as the most potent recent political concern swirling around TPP at home, particularly in light of recent reports of mass migrant graves found along Malaysia's border with Thailand.
Malaysia’s upgrade from a Tier 3 status on human trafficking -- a category that includes Burundi, South Sudan and fellow TPP member Thailand -- allows the country to trade with the U.S. under the Trade Promotion Act, which passed in June.
The State Department has denied that Malaysia’s improved score had anything to do with politics, noting that the country had bolstered its victim protection policies. The White House has argued that including nations with spotty rights records in the TPP allows the U.S. to pressure them into improving.
But some lawmakers remained incensed. “The obvious implication is that Malaysia is being upgraded to speed passage of the TPP,” said Rep. Rosa DeLauro, D-Conn. “It tarnishes the reputation of the State Department.”
Florida teachers have received instructions for seeking the new and controversial Best and Brightest scholarships that are directly tied to an educator's own performance on the SAT or ACT. While they are called scholarships, the awards are not for continuing education and are actually a bonus -- up to $10,000 -- that is paid in addition to a teacher's annual salary.
The Tampa Bay Times reported Monday that Florida's Department of Education sent out the official guidelines for how teachers can apply for the money, which is awarded based on performance evaluations and the standardized test scores. The major takeaway is that if a teacher's past performance on the standardized tests -- likely taken in high school -- does not meet requirements, the teacher can retake the SAT or ACT. The instructions also stated that the most recent evaluations of the teacher count and that the deadline for applications is Oct. 1.
To qualify for the bonus, a teacher has to perform at or above the 80th percentile on the ACT or SAT, the standardized tests dreaded by high schoolers everywhere. On the 2,400-point SAT system, a score of 1,780 was the 80th percentile cut-off line for 2014 college-bound seniors, according to data from The College Board.  For context, the University of Florida's admitted freshman class of students in 2014 had a middle 50 percent SAT score range of 1810-2060. The middle 50 percent is the range of scores from the 25th percentile through the 75th percentile in a class and is a measurement that provides a snapshot of what a common admitted student usually scores.
Teachers also have to receive a "highly effective" evaluation to be eligible. Should a teacher be awarded the bonus, it could be worth up to $10,000, but the exact figure depends on how many of the Best and Brightest scholarships end up being given out. 
The idea for the scholarships, proposed by state Rep. Erik Fresen, first gained little support from the state Senate but eventually passed after it became one of the final trade-offs in Florida's education spending plan, the Tampa Bay Times reported in June. The state set aside more than $44 million for the bonuses that became unpopular among some teachers. At the time, however, it was not known that teachers could retake the exams. Lawmakers had previously supported rewarding outcomes and had stopped allowing for higher salaries for advanced degrees or added salary for a National Board certification. Many were upset that tests from high school -- that perhaps were not a great indicator of teaching abilities -- would help determine a teacher's income.
Fresen told the Miami Herald in June that estimates suggested about 4,400 teachers would qualify for the scholarships. Fresen told the paper he wanted to recruit the best students to become teachers by boosting their potential starting salary while also retaining the top already in the field. First-year teachers who have yet to be evaluated will still be eligible if their SAT or ACT scores qualify. The average teacher salary for Florida in 2014-15 was $47,950, according to the Florida Department of Education.
 
Officials with Greece's three main creditors, known collectively as the troika, were under heavy security Tuesday in Athens, with about 250 police officers standing guard outside their hotel, the Telegraph reported, citing Greece’s Mega TV. Technical experts from the three entities began holding talks Monday with Greece on further terms for the latest bailout agreement.
"Teams from the institutions are already on the ground in Athens and work is starting immediately, as we speak,” said Mina Andreeva, a spokeswoman for the European Commission said. "Work has started, meaning that the institutions are talking to the Greek authorities."
The so-called troika -- composed of the European Commission, the European Central Bank and the International Monetary Fund -- were seeking a third round of reforms by the Greek government before giving Greece up to 86 billion euros ($95 billion) as part of a three-year loan to help the country remain in the eurozone.
About six months earlier, the same organizations were expelled from Greece after the left-wing Syriza party came to power and its leaders swore they would not cooperate with the troika and its demands for austerity in Greece as a condition for billions of euros in bailout cash.

The troika has become vastly unpopular with Greeks, who have angrily protested the creditors’ presence in the past. In 2013, a man threw coins at Poul Thomsen, then the mission chief for the IMF. Thomsen has since retained the services of a bodyguard, 24 hours a day, when he is in Athens, Bloomberg reported.
In April 2014, one day before German Chancellor Angela Merkel, who has championed austerity for Greece, was due to visit the capital, a car bomb exploded outside the Bank of Greece building in Athens. No one was injured or killed. Thousands of protesters also took to the streets ahead of her visit.
Negotiations that began this week were reportedly delayed because the Greek government sought to limit the mobility of troika members in Greece’s capital, Bloomberg reported. When they visit Athens, members work out of a heavily secured and bulletproof office bearing no identifying markers.
Greece’s stock market could reopen as soon as Wednesday, pending a decision by the European Central Bank. The stock exchange has been closed since June 29, Reuters reported.
U.S. stocks rebounded Tuesday, a day after China's stock market suffered its greatest single-day loss since 2007. Investors are turning their attention to the U.S. Federal Reserve’s policy meeting Tuesday and Wednesday. The Federal Open Market Committee will issue a statement from the central bank Wednesday afternoon.
Seven of the 10 S&P 500 sectors traded higher, led by a 1 percent gain from the energy sector, while telecommunication was the biggest laggard, down just 0.1 percent. 
The Dow Jones Industrial Average (INDEXDJX:.DJI) gained 81.74 points, or 0.47 percent, to 17,522.33. The Standard & Poor's 500 index (INDEXSP:.INX) added 10.15 points, or 0.49 percent, to 2,077.91. And the Nasdaq composite (INDEXNASDAQ:.IXIC) rose 6.67 points, or 0.13 percent, to 5,045.97.
Dow component Chevron Corporation (NYSE:CVX) was the biggest gainer in the index Tuesday, up 2 percent, while Boeing Co. (NYSE:BA) was the largest decliner, down 1 percent. 
China's stock market remained jittery Tuesday, paring losses and closing down nearly 2 percent after its benchmark index plunged 8.5 percent on Monday, suffering its biggest one-day loss in eight years.
Market professionals are awaiting a statement from U.S. Federal Reserve Wednesday that will reveal the overall health of the economy. The Fed has signaled recently that it could begin returning interest rates to normal levels sometime this year, which would mark the first rate hike in nearly a decade.
Even before China’s stock market began to tumble this month and Greece teetered on the edge of leaving the eurozone, the Fed was questioning its stance on an interest rate increase planned for sometime later in 2015, minutes from the June FOMC meeting showed.
Nevertheless, most experts anticipate the Fed will remain on course to lift interest rates in September. The U.S. is overall a closed economy, as the amount of trade with other economies is fairly small relative to its size, says Steve Barrow, head of G10 strategy at Standard Bank.
“Therefore, the impact of international developments is probably not as significant of a factor for the Federal Reserve,” Barrow said. “Even if the situations in China or Greece were to deteriorate, they wouldn’t necessarily have spillover effects on the U.S. economy.”
 
On the heels of receiving FDA approval for a breakthrough cholesterol medicine, Sanofi and Regeneron Pharmaceuticals Inc. on Tuesday announced a new $2.17 billion collaboration to develop drugs that will leverage the body’s immune system to eradicate cancer from patients. The approach, known as immuno-oncology, is one of the hottest areas of pharmaceutical research at the moment. Analysts at the investment research firm Morningstar estimate sales of such drugs could reach $33 billion by 2022.
Paris-based Sanofi will pay Regeneron, which is headquartered in Tarrytown, N.Y., up to $2.17 billion in the new agreement, including $640 million to kick off the collaboration. The companies will split future profits of immuno-oncology drugs they develop together.
One target of the deal will be a drug that acts on a protein known as programmed cell death protein 1, or PD-1, which suppresses the immune system. In a healthy person, suppression is a necessary function to keep the immune system from attacking parts of the body. But in cancer patients, this habit often hinders immune cells from recognizing a tumor as a foe, and those cells leave it to grow.
A new group of drugs known as PD-1 inhibitors effectively turns this protein off, lifting suppression and allowing the immune system to identify and vigorously attack tumors.
"The field of immuno-oncology has shown the potential to dramatically improve outcomes for patients with certain types of cancer," George D. Yancopoulos, chief scientific officer at Regeneron, said in a statement. "However, the field is still in its very early days."
Indeed, Regeneron’s version of a PD-1 inhibitor, called REGN2810, is only in the first of three phases of clinical trials. Since Merck and Bristol-Myers Squibb have already debuted similar treatments on the market, the company’s strategy with Sanofi will be to also pursue multiple other treatments involving monoclonal antibodies, which can bind to a protein such as PD-1 or a tumor cell, and bi-specific antibodies which can bind to both proteins and tumors. Attacking cancer on multiple fronts at once, Yancopoulos reasons, could increase the success rate of treatment in patients.
Regeneron and Sanofi have some catching up to do, however.  Morningstar expects  Bristol-Myers Squibb to capture 37 percent of the market share for new immuno-oncology therapies by 2022 with the drug Opdivo, which is already being prescribed. Merck, Roche and AstraZeneca are next in line and Regeneron and Sanofi will follow.
The latest collaboration between Regeneron and Sanofi yielded a cholesterol-lowering medicine called Praluent that has shown impressive results and is considered to be the first in its class. The companies  earned FDA approval  for Praluent just last week.
As the cost of health insurance continues to rise, the fallout from such increases is becoming ever more evident in state-run exchanges established by the Affordable Care Act. Some states have announced insurance rate hikes for the coming year, while others have said they will shut down all or part of their exchanges as insurers contend with higher costs associated with sicker patients and lower enrollment than originally anticipated.
The Louisiana Department of Insurance said Friday it would shutter its state health plan by the end of the year. Only 17,000 people out of Louisiana’s population of 4.6 million had enrolled in that plan, which was operating at a medical-loss ratio of 113 percent. That means for every dollar it earned in premiums, it paid $1.13 in expenses, Modern Healthcare reported. Louisiana’s federally run exchange has five other insurance companies offering plans.
Hawaii, which ran its own marketplace, Hawaii Health Connector, announced in June it would switch to the federally run marketplace, Healthcare.gov. Enrollment had been too low, at close to 40,000 consumers, and it was unable to generate sufficient revenue to sustain itself. "The viability of state health insurance exchanges has been a challenge across the country," Hawaii Gov. David Ige said at the time. Hawaii was the third state after Nevada and Oregon to transfer its state-run health exchange to the federal one.
Of the 12 states plus Washington, D.C., that run their own healthcare exchanges, about half of them have financial difficulties, and several states, including Minnesota, Colorado and Vermont, are considering shuttering their marketplaces and using the federal one instead, the Associated Press has reported.
Other states have acknowledged that in order to compensate for growing costs, premiums will have to increase.
State officials announced Monday that premiums for plans sold on California’s health benefit exchange, Covered California, would rise by an average of 4 percent, slightly less than the average rate increase expected by exchanges in other states. About 1.3 million people buy health insurance through Covered California. In Southern California, monthly premiums would rise to an average of about $296 per month. In Northern California premiums could increase to $384 per month.
In 11 major U.S. cities, the cost of a “silver” plan -- one tier of coverage that onsumers can pick -- could increase by 4.4 percent from 2015 to 2016, an analysis by the Kaiser Family Foundation found in June. The actual costs are still subject to change, and when broken down by city, the increase in premiums also varies widely. Some health insurance companies have asked to increase their premiums by as much as 40 percent in 2016, although state or federal officials must approve those increases before they can go into effect.
In Portland, Oregon, for instance, premiums were slated to rise by 16.2 percent in 2016 over the previous year. For a 40-year-old nonsmoker making $30,000 a year, that would mean an increase from $213 per month to $248 per month, before any tax credits the consumer might qualify for. In Burlington, Vermont, the increase was 9.2 percent, or from $436 to $476 for a monthly premium. But in New York City, it was just .5 percent. Kaiser’s analysis noted that consumers would have to carefully research their options and possibly switch plans or even health insurance carriers in order to avoid paying significantly more in monthly health insurance premiums.
Other insurers throughout the country have previously proposed increases in premiums, also citing higher costs of medical care for patients newly enrolled in Obamacare plans, the Wall Street Journal reported. In Tennessee, BlueCross BlueShield requested an average premium increase of 36.3 percent. One South Dakota insurer, Wellmark Blue Cross and Blue Shield, requested an average increase of 43 percent in the price of premiums, saying that 31 percent more consumers than it expected had submitted insurance claims exceeding $50,000. Prescription drugs also contributed to the increase in costs, and the company said that for every dollar of revenue brought in through premiums, it paid out $1.44 for medical care, Keloland reported.
BP PLC posted a loss of more than $6 billion Tuesday in its results for the second quarter of 2015. Low oil prices and a multibillion-dollar charge from the 2010 Gulf of Mexico oil disaster slammed the company’s earnings, marking BP’s second quarterly loss in the past six months.
The British oil giant said its replacement cost loss, or net negative income, was $6.27 billion, compared with a profit of nearly $3.2 billion a year earlier.
The steep drop includes a $9.8 billion pretax charge that BP recorded as part of its $18.7 billion agreement with the U.S. government and five Gulf Coast states. The deal settles all legal claims arising from the Deepwater Horizon disaster, which killed 11 rig workers and spewed more than 3 million barrels of crude oil into the Gulf of Mexico five years ago. So far, the well blowout has cost the company $55 billion in pretax charges for cleanup, penalties and victim compensation.
Fireboat crews battle the blazing remnants of the offshore oil rig Deepwater Horizon, off Louisiana, in this April 21, 2010, file photo. Photo: Reuters
Mounting spill costs are exacerbating the damage wrought by lower oil prices on BP's earnings. Brent crude, the global benchmark, averaged $62 a barrel in the second quarter, compared with $110 a barrel in the same period last year, BP said.
Cheaper crude also battered BP’s stake in Russia’s state-controlled oil company. BP’s underlying net income from OAO Rosneft fell by nearly half in the second quarter to $510 million, from $1 billion in the same period last year. The chaos and armed conflict in Libya also took its toll on BP’s upstream results. The company was hit with a $600 million charge relating to its exploration and operational activities in the North African country.
“The external environment remains challenging,” BP Chief Executive Officer Bob Dudley said in a statement Tuesday. “But BP moved quickly in response and we continue to do so.”
The oil giant sold off more than $40 billion in assets in recent years to raise cash for spill-related cleanup and legal costs. This year, BP said it will cut spending to below $20 billion, compared with previous guidance of up to $26 billion. Executives also delayed projects with reserves of more than 3.5 billion barrels of oil and gas.
Dudley said the cutbacks will help the British giant weather the continued drop in oil prices. Brent crude prices have fallen further in the third quarter, trading around $53 a barrel Tuesday morning. Global oil supplies continue to outpace weaker demand, while the recent nuclear deal with Tehran has raised concerns that new Iranian exports could worsen the market imbalance.
“I am confident that positioning BP for a period of weaker prices is the right course to take, and will serve the company well for the future,” Dudley said.
BP’s second-quarter losses were steepest in the upstream business, which includes oil exportation and production. Pretax earnings fell to $400 million, from $4 billion a year earlier. But downstream operations, which include refining and marketing, fared much better. Pretax earnings for the category jumped nearly 75 percent in the second quarter to $1.6 billion, up from $933 million the previous year.
BP’s operating cash flow in the second quarter was $6.3 billion, compared with $7.9 billion a year earlier. The company also announced Tuesday a quarterly dividend of 10 cents per ordinary share to be paid in September.
Organic capital expenditure for the quarter was $4.5 billion, bringing the total for the first half of 2015 to $8.9 billion.
An analysis based on Donald Trump’s 92-page personal financial disclosure form finds that he is worth $2.9 billion, not $10 billion, as he has previously claimed. The majority of the GOP presidential candidate's wealth comes from real-estate holdings, BloombergBusiness reported Tuesday.
Real-estate holdings that include a partnership with Vornado Realty Trust in Manhattan’s 1290 Sixth Ave. and 555 California St. in San Francisco and properties such as the Mar-a-Lago and Trump Doral resorts in Florida and the Trump Tower on Fifth Avenue in New York are largely responsible for Trump’s wealth, an analysis by the Bloomberg Billionaire Index found. His portfolio also includes fortunes derived from golf courses, resort properties, aircraft, cash and others assets.   
The analysis valued the real estate based on currently produced income. BloombergBusiness acknowledged that the retail space could bring higher rents if vacated and leased to new tenants at current market rates. It also did not value Trump’s brand beyond the cash held in accounts for licensing deals and partnerships.  
 
The latest math on Donald Trump&#39;s net worth: $2.9 billion http://t.co/Eme0NBUy0D (He says it&#39;s more than $10 billion) pic.twitter.com/26QNBoAvlA
&mdash; Sarah Muller (@digimuller) July 28, 2015
 
The personal financial disclosure form used to conduct the analysis was verified and signed by Trump and made public by the Federal Election Commission. The disclosure did not require Trump to list real estate for his own use or personal property. The form also required disclosures of value ranges, not specific sums. Trump valued his property as exceeding $50 million, which is the highest category on the form. The analysis also did not include 11 entities that were listed without value or income on the form. 
A statement released by Trump’s campaign on July 15 said that the report would not fully detail Trump’s fortune because it was "was not designed for a man of Mr. Trump's massive wealth,” Business Insider reported.
"For instance, they have boxes once a certain number is reached that simply state $50 million or more," the statement said. "Many of these boxes have been checked. As an example, if a building owned by Mr. Trump is worth $1.5 billion, the box checked is '$50,000,000 or more.’”  
Trump released a summary last month of his net worth as of June 30, 2014. He had reported that his wealth was worth $8.7 billion and also included a $3.3 billion value for his name. He also said he would be worth more than $10 billion after an unspecified “increase.” 
Istanbul police issued a bomb attack warning for crowded places Monday after the July 20 bombing in Suruç, in southeastern Turkey, that killed 32 people and left hundreds wounded. In an alert sent to all its units, the department warned of possible attacks on public transportation in the city after Turkey began bombing the Islamic State group and Kurdistan's Worker's Party (PKK) in northern Iraq and Syria. 
The memo from Deputy Police Chief Mustafa Çalışkan said there is information that attacks will continue and could target public transportation vehicles, police buildings, security forces and police lodging, according to Today's Zaman. Police units have been asked to review security measures and inform Istanbul's counterterrorism unit of any suspicious situations, reported Hurriyet Daily News.
The warning referenced the Suruç bombing and the beginning of Turkey's campaign bombing ISIS positions starting July 24 as part of an international coalition, according to Today's Zaman. Turkey, which shares long borders with both Syria and Iraq, also opened its airbases to U.S. warplanes as Islamic State militants have pushed on the Turkish border. 
If a spokesperson for the Syrian People’s Protection Units makes good on his threat, the price to pay for Turkey’s increased role in the anti-ISIS coalition could be Kurdish allegiance to the U.S. Pictured: Protesters and mourners gathered at the scene of a suicide bombing that killed at least 31 people in Suruç, Turkey, July 22, 2015. Photo: Zeki Mafzan
Turkey also began bombing PKK militants after more than a year of peace talks with the group's leaders. The PKK, a Kurdish separatist group labeled a terrorist organization by both the United States and the European Union, has also been fighting against ISIS along Turkey's border. Turkish Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoğlu said the attacks were in retaliation for PKK murders of police officers in Ceylanpınar.
Meanwhile, the British Foreign Office advised British tourists in Turkey on Tuesday to avoid traveling on trains and buses after "there were reports of possible threats to public transport in Istanbul," reported the Express. The Foreign Office also recommended against all but essential travel to certain areas of Turkey and suggested that the Istanbul transit stations most at risk were Taksim, Osmanbey, Yenikapi and Haciosman.  
New cars carry more interlinked computing systems than a typical small business. Buried under hoods and behind touchscreen control panels, microprocessors run by millions of lines of code operate an array of crucial functions, from brakes and steering to headlights and horns. Automakers are constantly adding more features, processors and software.
This new era in the evolution of motorized transport seems like a win-win situation for all. Most consumers embrace the technologies, and automakers welcome the bigger profit margins that teched-out cars provide.
But cybersecurity experts warn: Not so fast.
Automakers are so eager to pile more microprocessors and software into their vehicles that they’re moving faster than their ability to secure what are essentially rolling wireless networks. Experts say they are creating poorly protected systems that have the potential to be commandeered by malicious hackers who could take control of vehicles and send them careening into other cars. While the risks are low now, they're expanding with each model year. 
“Manufacturers are rushing headlong into implementing technologies that rely on connectivity without taking into account the possible unintended consequences and the accompanying increase in attack surface,” said Jean Taggart, senior security researcher at Malwarebytes Labs, the research arm of a leading anti-malware company. "Careful thought and evaluating the possible drawbacks of emerging technologies needs to be done by car manufacturers. Up until now they have operated in a vacuum of sorts.”
The electronification of vehicles has accelerated in recent years into a breakpoint in automotive history. Every year the latest models feature a new convenience-related personal technology features, like smartphone connectivity, or safety-critical computing functions, such as auto-braking to void rear-end collisions. But with the cutting edge technology comes serious safety issues. This is putting automakers smack in the middle of a cybersecurity business with an ever steepening learning curve.
“The automakers haven’t fully prepared themselves for this problem, and when organizations don’t have a background on security, they make certain assumptions that can compromise security,” said Rich Mogull, analyst and CEO with Phoenix-based Securosis, a security research firm.

This month Wired magazine published a widely read story showing how a Jeep Cherokee’s critical control functions could be hacked to take control of brakes, steering wheel and engine shutoff. Noted white-hat hackers Charlie Miller and Chris Valasek exhibited an alarming ability to remotely control safety-critical functions of the Jeep from miles away, using little more than an Android smartphone, a laptop, and months of research into the vehicle’s digital guts.
The hackers used their coding expertise to drill through the infotainment system to reach the electronics that control the brakes, steering wheel and engine power. From there they remotely interfered with the moving vehicle driven by cybersecurity journalist Andy Greenberg. This wasn’t the first time Miller and Valasek have shown off this alarming feat: they did similar hacks to systems on a Ford Escape SUV and a Toyota Prius hybrid.
On Friday, Fiat Chrysler Automobiles (FCA) issued a voluntary recall of 1.4 million vehicles from the 2013 to 2015 model years, including the Jeep Cherokee, Ram 1500 pickup truck and Dodge Challenger muscle car. The company instructed vehicle owners to bring their cars in for a software patch that would address the vulnerabilities Miller and Valasek identified.
Cybersecurity experts say there is no single fix for ensuring that hackers can’t hijack crucial vehicle controls. As cars become more autonomous, performing functions like auto-braking, lane changing and fully autonomous driving, the potential security vulnerabilities will increase.

“There is no reason why you should be able to do certain things to vehicles remotely, but as we move toward autonomous vehicles this will become more of a problem,” said Dave Miller, chief security officer for Covisint, a Detroit-based information technology company with roots in the automotive industry.
Miller says one important way to secure vehicle data, is to simply put some of it in the cloud so that that cars themselves are “dumber not smarter.” This would prevent hackers form targeting individual vehicle to access sensitive data, because the data would be stored remotely and access through a system used by major tech commonages to secure their cloud-storage services. “The easiest way for an auto manufacturer to fulfill requirements of car data security is to never store any data in the car and never let the car be the decision maker about external commands,” he said.
But this offers little for most safety-critical functions that need to perform whether or not a car has connections to a remote network. If a car is offline and the infotainment system doesn’t work, it’s a minor annoyance, but it’s not going to disable power steering or brakes.
A practical way of protecting certain critically important in-car computing tasks is to sequester networks by ensuring there’s no way for a hacker to bridge from the infotainment system (which is the most vulnerable access point because it’s connected wirelessly) to burrow into a car’s safety critical microprocessors. In security circles the term is known as creating “air gaps” -- no wires or wireless connectivity between a critical system and one that can be hacked remotely for back-door entry.

“The safest way to resolve this issue is to isolate control systems, separating life-and-safety systems from convenience systems,” said Mogull at Securosis. “You need extensive compartmentalization around safety systems, and this get very complicate when people want cars that park themselves.”
But the problem with air gaps is that some new technology requires in-car networks to communicate with one another. If a consumer wants a car with autonomous parking features, for instance, the vehicle would need steering and engine control and wireless access.
Steve Hultquist, a cybersecurity expert at RedSeal security analytics company, says another way to boost cybersecurity is by forcing systems to check with a human before performing certain tasks. He compared it to situations where computer users have to give permission to IT specialists to access their computers remotely.
“If the functions are not air-gapped, then it's clear that special access approaches, including what the technology industry would term multi-factor authentication, must be used,” he said. “These methods would likely include approval by the vehicle operator before the vehicle would allow access.”
Human authorization, which is common in computer operating systems, such as requiring permission to install software or download a file, would work for some functions but wouldn’t be useful for safety maneuvers, like asking permission to autonomously brake to avoid a rear end collision.
To protect safety-critical vehicle functions from hackers, security experts say automakers simply need to assume the world is a hostile place and that every single computer operated device in a car uses the same complex software encryption and authentication deployed to process mobile payments. There should also be a strict security monitoring and alert system when there is a network breach.
Manufacturers are more aware than ever of these vulnerabilities, but as recent hacking events have shown, they need to do more to weed out the risks. There are few interconnected mobile devices that need more cybersecurity protections than the modern car.
“What the car manufacturers need to do is give more thought to the security implications of these emerging technologies,” said Taggart.
BERLIN (Reuters) - The German government's panel of independent economic advisers favors the creation of a sovereign insolvency mechanism for euro zone states to prevent future crises and says countries should be able to leave the currency bloc as a last resort.
In a special report published on Tuesday, the council of five experts known as the "wisemen", said the Greek debt crisis had underscored the urgent need for further reforms to make the euro zone more stable.
Alongside measures such as deepening the European banking union, the council said the euro area's crisis toolkit should be complemented by a mechanism for orderly sovereign insolvencies, which would make the currency area's no bail-out clause credible.
"To ensure the cohesion of monetary union, we have to recognize that voters in creditor countries are not prepared to finance debtor countries permanently," said Christoph M. Schmidt, Chairman of the German Council of Economic Experts.
The Greek crisis has called into question the future of the currency bloc with popular misgivings in Germany over a third bailout for the heavily indebted country running deep.
Such an insolvency mechanism would force creditors to bear losses if states went bankrupt, in turn prompting investors to assess sovereign risk in more detail, the council said.
The council recommended that an exit of a country from the euro area should remain possible, albeit as an "utterly last resort."
"A permanently uncooperative member state should not be able to threaten the existence of the euro," the council wrote.
They also warned against "quick-win" policies, such as the creation of a euro zone treasury, a European unemployment insurance scheme or an economic government for the bloc.
"Making the euro area collectively responsible for potential costs without member states giving up any national sovereignty over fiscal and economic policies would - sooner or later - make the currency union more unstable," they wrote.
Their warning came after a report in German magazine Der Spiegel that Germany was willing to discuss the creation of a euro zone finance minister who would have his own budget and the power to raise extra taxes.
Trading on China's two main stock exchanges remained volatile on Tuesday, continuing a rout that has raised worries about the country’s economy, and casting doubts about the success of the government's measures to prop up domestic stock indexes.
Beijing struggled to contain losses from spiraling further, despite Monday's announcement that it will increase its purchasing of shares in order to support flagging stock markets. The Shanghai Composite fell 4 percent upon opening while the Shenzhen Component index saw a 5 percent decline. However, the markets subsequently regained some ground to close the day down 1.7 percent and 1.4 percent respectively.
The weak showing followed Monday's dramatic fall, which wiped $613 billion off the market in an 8.5 percent tumble, which marked the country’s biggest one-day drop in over eight years. The Shanghai Composite fell below the psychologically important 4,000 benchmark, and closed Tuesday at just over 3,663.
Monday’s rout seemed to end a three-week push that was propped up by aggressive intervention from the Chinese government.
In a statement issued after markets closed on Monday, the China Securities Regulatory Commission said it would "continue to stabilize the market, to reassure public confidence, to safeguard against systemic risks," attempting to quell rising panic among the country’s 90 million individual investors, according to CNN.
The regulator also said that it would investigate those engaged in the "malicious shorting of stocks." Authorities had previously said that they had found preliminary evidence of market manipulation.
As the markets opened Tuesday, the People's Bank of China used reverse-repurchase agreements to inject 50 billion yuan ($8 billion) into the country’s banks. The central bank also said it would use various monetary tools to maintain liquidity, Reuters reported.
As part of measures introduced after the last stock market crash earlier this month, the government ordered brokerages to buy local stock worth about $20 billion, and extracted a promise that they would not be sold until the Shanghai Composite hit 4,500. Authorities also restricted trading in the stock of several companies and halted many new listings. At one point, over half of the companies on the Shanghai Composite index were suspended from trading.
The ruling Communist Party has also grown increasingly concerned over a slowing economy slowing. China clocked a growth rate of 7 percent in the first quarter of year -- its slowest in six years -- prompting a slew of measures, including shaming the country's slow-moving bureaucracy into faster action.
As shares continued to fall despite the measures, however, questions have been raised about the public’s faith in the government's measures.
"To me it's just another painful lesson that what goes straight up is not sustainable – [there are] lots of margin accounts [with] individuals holding them - that's not a recipe that ends well," Mark Eibel, client investment director for Russell Investment, told CNBC.
Tesla Motors Inc (Nasdaq:TSLA) shares were pummeled Monday as investors watch prospects for luxury-car growth in China practically evaporate in the biggest market selloff in Shanghai since 2007. German car giants Volkswagen AG and BMW, which are heavily exposed to the Chinese market, were also deep in the red.
“China is the world’s largest auto market. If there’s a long downturn in China it would hit luxury carmakers,” said Theodore O’Neill, senior research consultant of Ascendiant Capital Markets. “The expectations are extremely high for Telsa’s growth rate.”
Tesla Motors shares closed down 4.67 percent to $253.01, their lowest price since June 15, erasing gains made after the company announced higher second-quarter sales and new options for the Tesla Model S. Last week the stock took a hit after the research unit of UBS bank downgraded the stock from Hold to Sell.
Shares in Volkswagen AG (FRA:VOW), the biggest foreign automaker in China, dived 6.33 percent to 167.83 euros ($185.60). Volkswagen’s Audi unit (FRA:NSU) also plunged 3.33 percent to 800 euros ($887.32). Audi is the top luxury car brand in China. Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (FRA:BMW) was down 5.12 percent to 88.91 euros ($98.62).Tesla has long said China is a key market for its growth projections. If wealthy Chinese investors take major hits, then luxury cars sales will too. The downturn couldn’t come at a worse time for Tesla, which recently announced renewed efforts to boost China sales.
“Despite initial challenges in China, we plan to continue to invest in our infrastructure in China as we believe that the country could be one of our largest markets within a few years,” the company said in its first-quarter earnings statement. The company sold fewer cars in China than it hoped last year and has been restructuring China sales and marketing efforts.
If China is headed for a crash, Tesla CEO Elon Musk and other company management will address this issue during the company’s second-quarter conference call next week.
A Colorado valedictorian was blocked from delivering a graduation speech in which he planned on coming out as gay to his high school, and a review of the incident commissioned by the school concludes that he was not discriminated against. Evan Young, 18, was barred from delivering his speech by now-departed principal B.J. Buchmann after it was discovered that he planned on coming out and had prepared jokes that named specific students.
The school’s action has drawn wide criticism, including from gay U.S. Rep. Jared Polis, D-Colo., who represents the town's congressional district. The school, Twin Peaks Charter, is northeast of Boulder.
The 24-page report was written by attorney William Bethke, who was hired by the school board following the uproar. Bethke noted that the outcry surrounding the speech focused almost solely on Young’s sexual orientation and not on other aspects, including jokes at the expense of other students, according to the Daily Camera of Boulder, which first reported on the story.
Young “repeatedly evaded conversations that might have clarified the situation," and Buchmann lost "the trust that might have made the student more willing to engage," Bethke's report stated. Young provided the principal with the speech via a Google Document share. After Buchmann said he was uncomfortable with aspects of it, the student continued to edit the document, which appears to have been unknown to Buchmann.
In the process, Buchmann also told Young’s parents that he was gay, the Young family alleges. The report determined that that wasn’t a violation of privacy because he planned on coming out in front of the whole community anyway.
Young was  later given the chance to deliver his speech, but not at the school. After the news came out that he would be barred from giving the speech, he was invited to speak at an event of Out Boulder, a local LGBT group.
Stock markets are the one part of Chinese society the Communist Party can’t control. Despite the extraordinary measures Beijing has rolled out over the last three weeks to ensure the stability of markets in Shanghai and Shenzhen, Chinese stocks plunged farther Monday than on any day since 2007.
The dramatic correction, which sliced 8.5 percent off the Shanghai Composite Index, ended a state-sponsored three-week rally, raising concerns that China’s massive equities bubble might outweigh the government’s ability to maintain calm.
“This is proof that the Chinese authorities simply cannot stop the inevitable,” said Tom Elliott, international investment strategist at the DeVere Group, an international financial adviser.
But analysts say the selloff won’t deeply affect the economic health within China or outside its borders, owing to the relatively slim share of Chinese households invested in the markets.
“The global effects will be very small,” said Nicholas Lardy, a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics. “I wouldn’t say don’t worry. But for international investors I’d say don’t panic.”
'A Stage-Managed Rally'
Though the causes of the rout Monday weren’t immediately clear, investors have shared concerns that China’s government began easing up on some of its equity-buying programs Monday, letting the bottom drop out of the sensitive market.
After Chinese markets climbed down from their speculative peaks in late June, Beijing took an unprecedented series of steps to mollify investors and stem an outright crash. Anchored by programs to buy up blue-chip stocks and support margin-lending operations, the efforts have mobilized at least $800 billion, Reuters reported.
At the same time, the government closed the faucet on selling, at one point restricting transactions on more than 70 percent of publicly traded stocks. “Malicious short sellers” faced prosecution. Taken together, the measures were severe enough to invite concerns from the International Monetary Fund, which reportedly advised Beijing to use a lighter touch in its market interventions.
Still, the government’s efforts managed to inspire some confidence. In the two weeks after July 8, the Shanghai Composite rose more than 17 percent.
Hopes of a sustained comeback died hard Monday, however, with little evidence on offer as to why. “It was a stage-managed rally, and the government hasn’t been able to stage-manage the decline,” Elliott said. More than 1,700 stocks fell by 10 percent, the maximum allowed before automatic brakes come into effect.
Government support, it seemed, was nowhere to be seen. “It’s hard to know how to interpret this,” Lardy said. “We don’t know how much the government has bought and whether it has stopped.”
Speculative Fervor
What is more certain, analysts say, is the limited effect the latest dip is likely to have on the Chinese economy, as well as markets abroad.
Only a fraction of Chinese families have taken a hit. While some 30 million retail investors crowded into Chinese markets in the first five months of 2015, the share of Chinese households directly invested in stocks remains limited, just 8.8 percent in the second quarter of 2015, the state-owned China News Service reported.
Equities make up less than 15 percent of household wealth, with roughly two-thirds of Chinese savings held in cash or deposits. Studies have found that the wealth effects of China’s market boom in the mid-2000s were slight.
In part, that’s because equities don’t enjoy the same vaunted investment status as they do in the West, Elliott said. “A lot of Chinese investors are torn between treating the stock market almost as if they’re going into a casino,” Elliott said, “or as some kind of government-sponsored savings scheme.”
Though the latter type of investor is likely to be disappointed by recent declines, they don’t represent a majority of the rising Chinese middle class. More than a third of Chinese retail investors are younger than 30, and 80 percent lack a college degree.
But the speculative fervor of China's relatively few stockholders has helped push the market to stratospheric levels. At the height of the bubble, the Shenzhen Stock Exchange traded at a median price-to-earnings ratio of 121, compared to a healthy 18 among top U.S. stocks. Analysts use the ratio of a company’s share price to annual earnings to determine whether a stock is overpriced.
Great as China’s bubble may be, analysts aren’t concerned that its implosion will threaten other markets. Foreign exposure to Chinese equities is slight, with less than 3 percent of Chinese stock owned by foreigners.
Bad Debt
That doesn’t mean world markets are insulated from the vagaries of the Chinese economy. China's rout put a noticeable damper on American markets Monday. Commodity prices have slumped in recent months, with oil hitting a year-long low amid fears that China’s economic growth will continue slipping from its once double-digit pace.
Apple, too, was clobbered last week after announcing less-than-stellar results in China. The tech giant lost more than $60 billion in market share on news that Chinese iPhone sales dipped. 
And concerns remain over rising Chinese debt, especially as the stock market continues to slide. In February, McKinsey calculated that Chinese debt totaled 282 percent of gross domestic product (GDP), nearly half of which was related to the country's troubled real estate sector. Meanwhile, the prevalence in China of margin lending -- loans made to investors with stock as collateral -- has raised the specter trouble in China’s banking sector.
Elliott predicts a banking crisis, if it were to spread, could result in a full-bore Chinese recession, whose effects on the world economy would be significant. But he sees this as only a distant possibility.
“Western commentators salivate when they read about massive amounts of debt in the Chinese banking and housing sector,” Elliott said. “I don’t see it coming. Beijing has the firepower.”
U.S. stocks were under pressure in midday trading Monday after China's benchmark stock market tumbled 8.5 percent, suffering its biggest one-day loss since 2007. Eight of the 10 S&P 500 sectors traded lower, led by declines in financials.
The Dow Jones Industrial Average (INDEXDJX:.DJI) dropped 117.28 points, or 0.67 percent, to 17,451.25. The Standard & Poor's 500 index (INDEXSP:.INX) dipped 8.94 points, or 0.43 percent, to 2,070.65. And the Nasdaq composite (INDEXNASDAQ:.IXIC) lost 39.11 points, or 0.77 percent, to 5,049.19.
Investors continue to grapple with concerns about the extreme volatility roiling China's stock markets, adding to fears the world’s second largest economy is slowing. Asian markets have dealt with frequent bouts of extreme volatility in the past month, with the Shanghai Stock Exchange Composite index tumbling more than 30 percent from its peak in mid-June.
The panic in Chinese mainland markets rippled across the globe, knocking down Hong Kong’s Hang Seng index dropped by 3 percent, while Japan’s Nikkei 225 dropped 1 percent, both indexes hitting a 2-week low. The losses also hit European stocks, sending Germany's DAX and France's CAC down 2 percent.
All three benchmark U.S. indexes traded lower amid a lackluster second-quarter earnings season. Investors have been spooked this month, with almost one-half of all China-listed companies now having instituted share-trading suspensions in an attempt to insulate themselves from the meltdown.
“What you’ve had in the last three weeks is blatant market manipulation and a desperate attempt to forestall a collapsing market,” said Phil Davis, founder of PSW Investments.
Despite the temporary nervousness around the world, Keith Bliss, senior vice president and director of sales and marketing at Cuttone & Co. said the Chinese stock market's gyrations aren't likely to have a lasting spillover effect on other global financial markets.
The price of Chinese stocks gained more than 100 percent in the last six months, and Davis says there was no way that was going to be sustained. “It was a result of them changing regulations, pumping money into the market and allowing new accounts to be opened. People piled into the market and drove it even high, which is usually the end game for a bubble,” Davis said.
China’s stock market plunged from $10 trillion to $6 trillion, losing some $4 trillion in the last month. “At the end of the third quarter, there’ll be companies that can’t hide the losses,” Davis said.
Economists are looking ahead to the Federal Reserve’s two-day policy meeting Tuesday and Wednesday, with a statement from the central bank Wednesday afternoon.
Even before China’s stock market began to tumble this month, the U.S. Federal Reserve was questioning its stance on an interest rate increase planned for sometime later in 2015, minutes from the Federal Open Market Committee meeting on June 16 and 17 showed. 
However, most experts anticipate the Federal Reserve will remain on course to lift interest rates for the first time in nearly a decade so long as the labor market continue to expand and financial conditions don’t tighten in the U.S. stock market.
This year is on track to become the pharmaceutical industry's hottest deal-making year ever. In 2014, drug companies agreed to mergers and acquisitions worth a record-breaking $212 billion, shattering 2009's previous record of $152 billion, according to EvaluatePharma. But it’s only July, and industry deals are already well on their way to overtake last year's value. Mergermarket reports that total deals in the first half of 2015  reached $159 billion.
"Not only is activity up, but dollar values are way up," Laura Vitez, principal biotech analyst with Thomas Reuters, says. "It's pretty mind-blowing."
Those early deals included Pfizer Inc.’s purchase of Hospira Inc. for $17 billion and Valeant Pharmaceuticals International Inc.’s $15.8 billion acquisition of Salix Pharmaceuticals. In the latest installment, Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. announced on Monday that it would buy the generic drug unit of Allergan PLC for $40.5 billion. Teva is the world's largest maker of generic drugs and Allergan was one of its fiercest competitors.
Why the sudden increase in expensive agreements? Many leading pharmaceutical companies are feeling pressure to cut costs as they approach the “patent cliff,” a wave of expiring patents for blockbuster medications. Once a patent expires, other companies may begin producing generic versions of the medicine which will knock its price down considerably.
Teva’s acquisition helps position the drugmaker, which already sells 12 percent of generic drugs purchased worldwide, to own an even larger share of the generics business as more medicines are up for grabs and competition for the generic versions is stiffer than ever. Teva immediately launched a generic version of an antipsychotic medicine called Abilify, which brought in $7.8 billion in 2014 sales for Bristol-Myers Squibb and Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd., when the patent expired in April.
FiercePharma estimates that makers of non-generic drugs could lose up to $44 billion in sales from medicines set to go off-patent this year, including Sanofi’s top-selling treatment called Lantus for diabetes and the antibiotic Zyvox by Pfizer. By consolidating, manufacturers save on expenses and acquire a new pipeline, which ensures that they have strong new drug candidates to bring to market to replace the huge losses.  
But Teva is also vulnerable to the loss of patent protection for its own brand name medicines. A portion of the company's drugs are patent-protected. Earlier this year, the company took rival Mylan to the Supreme Court and won a longer period of exclusivity for its leading medicine called Copaxone, which treats multiple sclerosis.
Aside from the pharma industry's impending patent cliff, companies have also recently come under fire for runaway drug prices --for both generic and brand name prescriptions. Public pressure from payers such as Express Scripts has lately forced the industry to concede lower prices and try to propose new value-driven arrangements that payers will tolerate, but which may cut further into revenue. In the midst of those concessions, companies are trying to justify high prices for new medicines for rare diseases and curative treatments. PricewaterhouseCoopers suggests medical device companies and specialty pharmaceutical companies are particularly interested in consolidation to preserve the negotiating power they hold with private insurers as well as Medicaid and Medicare.

The purchasing trend is also indicative of a new business model that has emerged within the pharmaceutical industry – more often, major drug companies are leaving the research and development up to smaller biotech firms and startups. Forbes describes it as a sort of pyramid, with a handful of large drug manufacturers at the top purchasing the rights to make promising drugs developed by many smaller companies. Since a recent estimate indicates that it now costs $2.5 billion on average to bring a drug to market, large pharmaceutical companies prefer to bet on candidates which have already been vetted to some degree, rather than start from scratch. Simply by its structure, this model results in more frequent acquisitions. 
Vitez says it's an "eat or be eaten" world. "In general, large pharma companies are working really hard to fill both their marketed and development pipelines by bringing outside stuff in," she says. "Those companies grow by buying products, buying product lines and buying other companies."
Financing schemes and trends have also played a part in spurring deal activity. PricewaterhouseCoopers also suggests that a stronger dollar has enabled some U.S. companies to be bold about acquiring those based elsewhere. At the same time, the Wall Street Journal reports that access to lower tax rates has enabled companies based outside of the U.S. to make big purchases. Teva’s headquarters are in Jerusalem, Israel. Pharmaceutical Executive points out that more fluid financing through debt markets and increased cash flow have recently persuaded companies that the time is ripe for making deals.
But the magazine has also stated that although merger and acquisition activity appears to have ramped up over the past two years, 2012 and 2013 were relatively slow years for comparison because the heightened valuation of many pharmaceutical companies over a short period of time discouraged deals.
In response to all this deal-making, pharmacy chains are also combining forces to boost their ability to negotiate for cheaper drugs – CVS Health acquired Omnicare for $12.7 billion in May and Rite Aid took over EnvisionRX for $2 billion at the start of the year.
Health insurers have also announced new agreements at a rapid clip. Notable deals this year include UnitedHealth’s acquisition of Catamaran for $12.8 billion, Aetna’s move to take over Humana for $37 billion and Anthem’s purchase of Cigna for $54 billion. Those deals are meant to give insurance companies more clout in bargaining with both drug companies and negotiating with hospitals for lower costs of patient care. Insurers are also seeking ways to cut costs as the Affordable Care Act brought more patients to payers but also squeezed profits by requiring insurers to accept everyone at a fair rate. 
As part of the record-setting $105 million settlement with U.S. regulators over recall lapses, Fiat Chrysler Automobiles (FCA) NV says it will buy back nearly 200,000 trucks and SUVs for steering and axle problems. Owners of affected vehicles have complained of monthslong waiting lists because of parts supply shortages.
FCA “has entered into a consent order with the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) which resolves the issues raised by NHTSA with respect to FCA U.S.’s execution of 23 recall campaigns,” the company said in a statement Sunday announcing the agreement.
In additional to a $70 million punitive fine, the company agreed to spend $20 million to improve safety efforts and $15 million more if the company doesn’t comply with NHTSA demands in a proper fashion. The company has also agreed to use an independent safety monitor for at least three years.
Some of the $20 million will be spent buying back a number of trucks and SUVs, offering $100 gift cards to qualified Jeep owners for getting their vehicles fixed, and extending a $1,000 bonuses on trade-ins of certain Jeep Grand Cherokees.
Originally, there were about 580,000 affected vehicles that FCA recalled to fix these problems. About 387,000 of them have been fixed, according to the company, leaving 193,000 that are eligible for the buyback program.
The NHTSA gave the company a “reasonable allowance for depreciation” on the price they’re willing to pay. A certain number of following vehicles are eligible for the buyback program:* 2008 to 2012 model-year Ram pickup trucks that have either steering problems or axle problems, or both.* 2008 to 2012 Ram 4500 and 5500 super duty pickup trucks, for steering problems;* 2009 to 2011 Dodge Dakota trucks, for axle problems;* 2009 Dodge Durango and Chrysler Aspen SUVs, for an axle problem.
The 1998 Jeep Grand Cherokee is one of the cars whose gas tank is located behind the rear axle, a design issue that most automakers fix by putting the gas tank in front of the rear axle to protect from rear-end collision fires.  Photo: FCA
Fiat Chrysler will also offer $1,000 on trade-ins of 1993 to 1998 model-year Jeep Grand Cherokees. Owners can also apply the money to service on other FCA vehicles they might own. FCA says more than 1 million Jeeps need to be fixed for a fire risk linked to the position of the vehicle’s gas tank. NHTSA and Fiat Chrysler have clashed for years over the gas-tank issue affecting 2.7 million Jeeps, but last year came to an agreement on how to protect the tanks: by installing a trailer hitch. 
More than 70 people have been killed in fires involving rear-end collisions in these older Jeeps. FCA is facing dozens of lawsuits over the fires. In April, a Georgia jury awarded $150 million to the family of Remington Walden, 4, who burned to death in a rear-ended 1999 Jeep Grand Cherokee. FCA is fighting the verdict and says it’s willing to pay $4 million for wrongful death and $1 million for pain and suffering, according to the Atlanta-based Daily Report.
These are vehicle dummies used by auto safety experts. The top image shows the position of the Jeep Grand Cherokee's gas tank compared to a more conventional tank position in comparable SUVs, like the Chevy Blazer.  Photo: Byron Bloch, autosafetyexpert.com
Auto safety experts have criticized how FCA has handled its Jeep recall. Fiat Chrysler has been installing trailer hitches to the backs of the Jeeps, which the company and NHTSA have agreed would guard the gas tank from being punctured in low-speed impacts. But some auto safety advocates have questioned the remedy.
“It’s going to be a spear. It is going to go through people’s vehicles,” Ron Melancon, who tracks accidents caused by trailer hitches at dangeroustrailers.org, told the Detroit Free Press in 2013.
FCA owns several automotive brands, including Fiat, Chrysler, Jeep, Dodge and Ram. FCA was formed early last year after Italian automaker Fiat SpA CEO Sergio Marchionne rescued Chrysler in 2009 in a deal orchestrated by the Canadian and U.S. governments. Last year the company completed its acquisition of union-held portion of Chrysler, which allowed a merger forming a new Netherlands-registered company. The U.S. taxpayer spent $1.29 billion bailing out Chrysler.
Correction: The original version of this story said FCA would buy back nearly 579,000 affected vehicles. In fact, the company says that all but 193,000 of the affected vehicles have been fixed. It’s the vehicles on the list above that have not been fixed that are eligible for the buyback offer. Check FCA's wesbite using your Vehicle Information Number here. 
Popular juices and sugar-laden drinks such as Capri-Sun will no longer grace the shelves of Tesco, a major supermarket chain in Britain, as the country battles an epidemic of childhood obesity. The chain will drop several popular sugary drinks Sept. 7, as children return to school from summer vacation, the Daily Mail reported.
The juice pack Capri-Sun and versions of Ribena, Rubicon and Juicee drinks with added sugar were among those to be removed from Tesco’s shelves, the Daily Mail reported, citing the trade magazine the Grocer. David Beardmore, the soft drinks buying manager for Tesco, told the Grocer that the decision was a part of negotiations to reform juice offerings for children.
EXCLUSIVE: Tesco to cull big-selling sugary kids&#39; drinks like Ribena, Capri-Sun, Rubicon (£) http://t.co/9Q5mNuq7hE pic.twitter.com/aUsPrI9rya
&mdash; The Grocer (@TheGrocer) July 24, 2015
The drinks would be replaced with juice alternatives that do not have added sugar. An updated media website for Tesco did not appear to include any official releases, statements or information about the decision to remove certain sugar-added drinks from its shelves. The chain has more than 3,500 stores in Britain and more than 7,800 stores worldwide, with sales of nearly 70 billion pounds (roughly $108 billion), according to its website.
In England in 2013, 29 percent of all boys and girls aged 2 to 15 were either overweight or obese. An equal percentage of children the same ages were obese or overweight in Scotland, while 34 percent of children were obese or overweight in Wales in 2012, according to Public Health England, a government website.
Childhood Obesity in the UK http://t.co/2MUYJHfMGJ via @imgur
&mdash; LimehouseDayNursery (@LimehouseDayNur) July 10, 2015
 
Some health advocates praised the move, saying it would help encourage others in the food industry to cut back on selling sugary drinks. But others said it was still not enough. “Tesco's moves for now stay well clear of the fizzy soft drinks category, which many in the health lobby are gunning for -- although Tesco has said this is the start of a broader clampdown across its entire soft drinks lineup,” Adam Leland, editor of the Grocer, said.
On its website, Tesco offered tips to parents for packing a healthy lunchbox for their children’s lunches. For drinks, it suggested, “Add bottled water, milk or 100 percent fruit juices to school lunch boxes. However, fruit juices should be limited to meal times due to their high sugar content. Try diluting fruit juice, two parts water to one part juice, to reduce the sugar content.”
International investors and analysts were on high alert Monday after China’s benchmark Shanghai Composite index sank nearly 8.5 percent amid frantic selling, despite Beijing’s efforts to stabilize the stock market. The crash could trigger financial troubles for other major economies, including the United States.
China is the second-largest economy in the world, but the country’s explosive growth has fallen to its lowest level in years. If China’s economy slows faster, it could take foreign trade and multinational companies down with it, according to CNN.
While the American economy is not fueled by foreign trade, trade is the most direct link between China and the United States. U.S.-China trade was on track to top U.S.-Canada trade as the largest in the world, according to State Street Global Advisers. Chinese consumers often prefer foreign brands – including American -- over local products, but that could change if China’s economic troubles persist, CNN reported.
 
The hasty dam China built to hold back stock mkt selloff sprung a major leak today. &#10;My take: http://t.co/KtPEVjxy46 pic.twitter.com/iQUF7wpaYZ
&mdash; Alex Frangos (@alexfrangos) July 27, 2015
 
 
Multinational companies with significant exposure to China could also be disproportionately affected by the crash if growth continues to decelerate. In the United States, 40 percent of the revenue generated by S&P 500 companies has come from overseas. Fears about a slowing China have already hurt earnings this season. For example Akhil Johri, chief financial officer at United Technologies, said the manufacturer saw new equipment orders at its elevator business fall 10 percent last quarter in China, according to CNN.
China’s stock market began to crumble in late June and early July. Last week, American stocks fell hard and the Dow Jones Industrial Average posted its biggest weekly hit since January, according to Reuters.
China's state-owned Xinhau news agency reported Monday that the Shanghai Composite index -- which tracks stocks on China’s second exchange -- fell more than 3 percent. But outside reports stated the stock composite plunged 8.48 percent – closing at 3,725.56 – and the smaller Shenzehn Composite fell more than 7 percent.
Israel’s Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. said Monday that it has agreed to acquire Dublin-based Allergan PLC's generic pharmaceuticals business for $40.5 billion. The company said in a statement released Monday that the latest acquisition will provide its customers with affordable quality medicine and benefit Teva’s stockholders.
Teva is expected to close the deal by the first quarter of 2016 and Allergan will receive $33.75 billion through a combination of new equity, debt financing and cash. Allergan will also receive Teva shares valued at $6.75 billion based on Monday's closing rate, giving Allergan an ownership stake in Teva at just under 10 percent, the statement said. The deal comes as Copaxone, Teva’s top selling product to treat multiple sclerosis, began facing heavy competition in the U.S. last month.
“With pro forma revenues of approximately $26 billion and combined EBITDA of approximately $9.5 billion anticipated in 2016, this acquisition reinforces our strategy, accelerates growth and diversifies revenues both by product and geographically, supporting our new business model,” Erez Vigodman, Teva’s president and CEO, said in the statement.
Teva was earlier actively trying to buy Mylan NV but met with fierce resistance to the takeover, the Wall Street Journal reported Sunday. Mylan instead has reportedly pursued an alliance with Perrigo Co. PLC. The report by the Journal added that the deal between Teva and Allergan will allow the former what it has been seeking from Mylan -- economies of scale in the highly competitive generic-drug market that will allow it to reduce costs, and tackle low margins on low-priced medicines.
"We will have the potential to add scale in existing therapeutic areas, expand into new therapeutic areas and geographies and evaluate strategic transformational deals," Brent Saunders, CEO and president of Allergan said, in a statement from the company. 
Parsippany, N.J.-based Allergan has treatments for dermatology, aesthetics, women’s health, eye care and for cardiovascular disease, according to a report by the New York Times. Last year, the company posted revenues of $13.1 billion. Teva is the world’s biggest seller of off-brand medicines and posted revenues of $20.3 billion last year.
Malaysia’s new budget airline terminal is sinking into the ground, causing cracks to appear on runways and pools of water to form on the tarmac, media reports said Monday.
Kuala Lumpur International Airport’s new terminal, known as Klia2, could face delays, increased wear and tear on planes, and possible safety violations, according to AirAsia Bhd, the new terminal’s largest operator.
AirAsia Malaysia CEO Aireen Omar called for the issues to be fixed before they began affecting take-offs and landings. “The airport is still sinking,” Aireen told Bloomberg, adding that the terminal operator, Malaysia Airports Holdings Bhd, had done some “partial resurfacing” but criticized the lack of a “permanent solution.”
Tony Fernandes, head of the AirAsia group, also condemned the airport’s condition on Twitter, stating that the terminal's “board and management need a strong hard look at themselves,” and posted a picture of a plane with its landing gear bent out of shape.
Is this to be expected?8 hour delay due to plane slipping of chocks . The board has to take responsibility pic.twitter.com/X7EAt3jvft
— Tony Fernandes (@tonyfernandes) July 27, 2015
However, the conditions at the airport have reportedly not yet endangered flights. “If you go to the airport you can see ponding with your very own eyes,” Mohshin Aziz, an analyst at Malayan Banking Bhd in Kuala Lumpur said, according to Bloomberg. “It’s more of an irritation rather than a safety hazard.”
The news comes after a year of bad news for Malaysia’s aviation industry, after its national carrier Malaysia Airlines suffered two major disasters -- the disappearance of Flight MH370 last March, and the downing of Flight MH17 over Ukraine last July.
Klia2 has also drawn flak for its construction costs, which were rife with allegations of mismanagement, leading to delays and cost overruns. The project cost ultimately rose to about $1 billion from $446 million.
The country’s transport ministry has launched an independent audit into the airport, promising to report on pending issues “in due course,” the ministry told Bloomberg. Malaysia Airports will be responsible for any changes stemming from the findings of the audit.
Klia2, which began operations in early May last year, was built to serve up to 45 million passengers a year. The AirAsia group is the terminal’s largest source of traffic, accounting for 15.2 million passengers, or 87 percent of its traffic, according to Malaysia Airports data.
China's Shanghai Composite index on Monday suffered its worst single-day fall since 2007, as fears over the government ending its market-stabilization campaign triggered panic selling. The benchmark index plunged nearly 8.5 percent -- closing at 3725.56 -- while the smaller Shenzhen Composite fell over 7 percent.
“Today’s rout in China poured cold water on investor sentiment,” Mari Oshidari, a Hong Kong-based strategist at Okasan Securities Group Inc., told Bloomberg. “This also revealed the market is still too fragile without government support.”

The crash comes just three weeks after the government took drastic measures to curb falling stock prices by banning large shareholders from selling stakes, ordering state-run institutions to buy shares, and allowing many companies to halt trading in their shares. The unprecedented intervention was necessitated by a 30 percent plunge in the Shanghai Composite index in a span of three weeks between mid-June and early July, after it rose 150 percent in less than a year.
Following the slew of stabilization measures, the Shanghai Composite index crossed the “psychologically important” 4,000-point mark last week -- rebounding 16 percent from its July 8 low. Before Monday’s sell-off, Chinese markets had enjoyed two weeks of relative calm.
How today's session on the Shanghai market rollercoaster compares with other one-day drops. http://t.co/VqPFn9JYER pic.twitter.com/4YZ7Dm9rpT
— fastFT (@fastFT) July 27, 2015
“The previous support from the government funds is apparently unsustainable,” Jacky Zhang, an analyst at China’s BOC International, told the Wall Street Journal on Monday.
Earlier, on Friday, it emerged that the International Monetary Fund had urged China to unwind the measures taken to stem the stock sell-off so that market forces could reset the price of shares, according to media reports.
“They [the Chinese government] may withdraw support today to test whether the market has recovered its resilience,” Zhang told the Journal.
Mitsubishi Motors will stop producing cars at its only U.S. plant in the state of Illinois and will move production to a factory in Japan, the company announced Sunday. The Japanese automaker also said that it was looking for a buyer for its U.S. facility.
According to the company, it will stop production at November-end at the Bloomington-Normal plant in Central Illinois, which only produces the Outlander Sport SUV. The crossover vehicle will be exported to the U.S. from the company’s Okazaki plant in Japan. However, a final board decision is expected to be made Thursday, Bloomberg reported.
The Illinois plant opened in 1988 as a joint venture between Mitsubishi and the then Chrysler Corp., which is now owned by Fiat Chrysler Automobiles, headquartered in London. In 2009, following the financial crisis, production at the plant dropped to 18,500 units a year, down from 222,000 units in 2000. The Illinois factory, which employs more than 1,200 workers and produces vehicles for export, was also recently hit by a slump in Russian demand, Bloomberg reported.
“We are going to do everything we can to make sure people know that Mitsubishi no longer needs the facility, but that this is a facility that has a very efficient, world-class workforce and a supplier network that’s second to none,” Japan Times quoted Sen. Bill Brady, R-Bloomington, as saying last week.
According to Brady, state officials are working with the company to find another manufacturer to buy the Illinois plant, Japan Times reported, adding that Mitsubishi had decided to end production in the U.S. to focus on Asian markets.
In 2014, Mitsubishi Motors sold only 82,000 vehicles in the U.S., or less than 1 percent of the overall market, the Associated Press (AP) reported.
Several U.S. companies, including Apple Inc., Google Inc., Microsoft Corp., and Bank of America Corp., will on Monday announce at least $140 billion in new investments to lower their carbon emissions and increase funding for clean energy, the Wall Street Journal reported.
The announcement -- part of a White House initiative to recruit private companies in the fight against climate change -- would come just months ahead of a crucial United Nations summit in Paris. Securing long-term climate finance is seen as a crucial step to a potential deal in Paris later this year.
“It’s significant because they are carbon-intensive, energy-consuming companies making a bottom-up commitment to address climate change,” Kevin Book, managing director at ClearView Energy Partners, a Washington-based firm, told the Journal.
However, none of the companies scheduled to take part in Monday’s pledge are involved in the production of oil, natural gas and coal -- major sources of anthropogenic greenhouse gas emissions.
 A second round of similar pledges from several other companies is expected to be announced later this fall, the Journal reported. It is not yet clear whether American fossil fuel companies would also make commitments to reduce carbon emissions in the second round.
Among the pledges to be announced Monday is a commitment by General Motors Co. to cut its carbon intensity [ which denotes the amount of carbon dioxide emitted for each unit of energy consumed] by 20 percent in the next five years -- as compared to 2010 levels -- and a $75 billion pledge by Bank of America, the Journal reported.
The pledges, if followed through, would go a long way in helping the U.S. government meet its commitment to cut emissions by up to 28 percent below 2005 levels by 2025.
In 2010, the U.N. announced the creation of the Green Climate Fund, which aims to raise up to $100 billion a year to help developing countries mitigate the effects of climate change.
Later this week, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency is expected to announce final regulations that aim to reduce carbon emissions from American power plants by 30 percent over 2005 levels by 2030. 
"As the world looks toward global climate negotiations in Paris this December, American leadership at all levels will be essential,” the White House reportedly said, in a statement detailing the announcement.
U.S Transportation Secretary Anthony Foxx announced Sunday Fiat Chrysler Automobiles had agreed to submit to new federal oversight and pay a $105 million civil penalty after acknowledging it violated the Motor Vehicle Safety Act’s requirements for repairing vehicles with safety defects,a National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) press release said. 
The civil penalty, which is the largest ever imposed by the NHTSA, comes after Fiat Chrysler admitted it violated the safety act in three areas, namely: effective and speedy recall procedures, notifying vehicle owners and dealers of safety concerns, and notifying the NHTSA. The fine is also the latest in a series of record-breaking fines following a $70 million fine Honda Motor Co. paid last year.
On July 2, NHTSA officials cited Fiat Chrysler for failures over the course of 23 vehicle safety recalls, which involved more than 11 million defective vehicles.
“Today’s action holds Fiat Chrysler accountable for its past failures, pushes them to get unsafe vehicles repaired or off the roads and takes concrete steps to keep Americans safer going forward,” Foxx said in his statement. “This civil penalty puts manufacturers on notice that the department will act when they do not take their obligations to repair safety defects seriously.”
U.S. Transportation Secretary Anthony Foxx announced Sunday that Fiat Chrysler had agreed to unprecedented oversight and reforms to their recall procedures. Above, Foxx is pictured at a press conference on May 16, 2014, in Washington. Photo: Getty Images/Mark Wilson
“Fiat Chrysler’s pattern of poor performance put millions of its customers, and the driving public, at risk,” said NHTSA Administrator Mark Rosekind in the press release. “This action will provide relief to owners of defective vehicles, will help improve recall performance throughout the auto industry and gives Fiat Chrysler the opportunity to embrace a proactive safety culture.”
NHTSA issued a consent order against the Michigan automaker under which Fiat Chrysler must agree to buy back, trade-in or pay for repairs for some of the more than 1 million Jeeps prone to fires, as well as more than 500,000 cars with defective suspensions, which can cause loss of control.
The order also requires Fiat to notify customers who are eligible for these incentives and to hire an independent monitor to audit the company’s recall process, the Wall Street Journal reported.
Fiat released a response to the NHTSA action Sunday, saying:
“FCA US LLC acknowledges the admissions in its consent order with the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration. We also accept the resulting consequences with renewed resolve to improve our handling of recalls and re-establish the trust our customers place in us. We are intent on rebuilding our relationship with NHTSA and we embrace the role of public safety advocate. Accordingly, FCA US has agreed to address certain industry objectives, such as identifying best practices for recall execution and researching obstacles that discourage consumers from responding to recall notices.”
Fiat Chrysler’s penalty includes $70 million in cash, with an additional $20 million to meet “performance requirements” to ensure drivers’ vehicles are repaired, CNNMoney reported. An additional $15 million could be issued if the independent monitor discovers more violations of the consent order.
View the NHTSA's Consent Order Against Fiat Chrysler below:
FCA Consent Order

Investor enthusiasm for Amazon.com Inc (AMZN.O) is pretty consistent: the stock tends to rise, even though the company isn't consistent about making profits.
On Thursday, it posted second quarter profit of $92 million on sales of $23.19 billion, only its third quarterly profit since the first quarter of 2014. Amazon has reported an annual net profit in 10 of its 18 years as a public company, and only twice in the last four years. On Friday, Amazon shares closed at a record high of $535.50 and the company passed Wal-Mart (WMT.N) in market value.
Though some investors have expressed concern about the uneven results, Amazon said Thursday, as it has in the past, that the online retailer will invest on everything from its cloud computing business to gadgets like the Kindle, without worrying about quarterly results. 
"This (profit) is more of an anomaly because they operate on a mindset that if there's profit they're not being creative enough," said Michael Yoshikami, CEO of Walnut Creek, California-based Destination Wealth Management, which has $1.5 billion under management and doesn't hold Amazon. "They're a huge capex, infrastructure company and obviously there's lot of things they can spend their money on."
One area that excites Wall Street for its profit-making possibilities is its cloud computing business, Amazon Web Services, which has more than 1 million active customers in 190 countries and is planning to expand to India. The division's revenue rose more than 80 percent in the second quarter to $1.82 billion and Amazon said it had an operating profit margin of 21.4 percent.
Amazon has consistently logged strong top-line growth but has plunged most of it back into large investments to expand its distribution network, add original media content to Prime -- its $99-a-year membership program -- and spend heavily on developing unpopular devices like the Fire smartphone.
"You can see a lot more upside" with AWS, said Tuna Amobi, an equity analyst with S&PCapital IQ in New York, adding that the business, which generated more than $5 billion in revenue in 2014, could double in size in two years.  
Asked whether Amazon's swings in profitability would stabilize in the future, Amazon CFO Brian Olsavsky admitted its performance was "lumpy" and told analysts on Thursday, "We will continue to work on both those tracks going forward."
The online retailer also faces new competition and may need to ramp up spending in areas like fulfillment, analysts said. This week, Jet.com, an e-commerce company headed by a former Amazon executive, made its site available to the public, promising savings on millions of items for a membership that is half the price of Amazon Prime.
The question for Wall Street is whether it will be patient with how the company spends its money despite uneven profits. The immediate answer appears to be yes.
Buoyed by strong growth in AWS and bullish comments on Amazon Prime, at least 24 brokerages raised their target price on the stock. Of the 43 analysts covering the stock, 34 have "buy" or higher ratings, according to Thomson Reuters data.
ATHENS (Reuters) - The Greek stock exchange will remain closed on Monday but might reopen on Tuesday after a one-month shutdown, official sources said.
"It's certain that it will not open on Monday, maybe on Tuesday," a spokesperson for the Athens Stock Exchange told Reuters on condition of anonymity.
Another person with direct knowledge of the matter confirmed that Greek authorities aimed to reopen the bourse on Tuesday.
The stock market has been closed since June 29 when Athens shut its stricken banks and imposed capital controls to stem a run on deposits that threatened to collapse the tottering Greek financial system. The shutdown has put at risk the bourse's place in global securities indices.
Banks reopened last Monday and Greece submitted a plan to the European Central Bank last week for an opinion before a decision was made by the Greek finance ministry which would allow the stock market to resume trading as early as Monday. The Athens Stock Exchange official said Greece needed more time to finalize the details which would allow the market to reopen based on ECB's opinion.
Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. is in advanced talks to buy Allergan PLC’s generic-drug business in the midst of a thus-far-unsuccessful effort to acquire peer Mylan NV, according to a person familiar with the matter. Jerusalem-based Teva, which has offered to buy Mylan for $40 billion, is now close to an agreement to acquire Dublin-based Allergan’s generic-drugs unit for between $40 billion and $45 billion, the person said.
A deal could be announced as early as next week, the person said, cautioning that negotiations had not yet been completed and requesting not to be identified because the discussions are confidential. Teva and Allergan representatives did not respond to requests for comment.
Large drugmakers are attempting to realign their operations to focus on a small number of leading businesses, while smaller specialty and generic producers are seeking larger scale. Allergan’s branded-drugs business makes products such as Botox and the Alzheimer’s drug Namenda. Its generics business provides about one-third of the company’s total revenue.
A successful deal with Allergan would give Teva, which has a market capitalization of $60 billion, a much bigger footprint in the generic-drugs sector. It would also offer opportunities for significant cost synergies and tax savings.
Last year, Actavis PLC outbid Canadian drugmaker Valeant Pharmaceuticals International Inc. and activist investor William Ackman to merge with Allergan and adopt its name. Allergan now has a market capitalization of $121 billion.
Teva’s bid for Mylan took a hit last week when the latter’s independent Dutch foundation exercised a call option allowing it to buy 50 percent of Mylan’s total issued and outstanding capital, giving it temporary control of one-half the company. Known as Stichting, the foundation opposes Teva’s bid, arguing that a Teva takeover would likely lead to job losses at Mylan and reduce access to cheap generic medicines in emerging markets.
For its part, Mylan is pressing on with a $34 billion hostile bid for Perrigo Co. PLC. Were Teva to clinch a deal with Allergan for its generic-drug business and drop its bid for Mylan, this would likely strengthen the hand of Mylan’s management in its campaign to buy Perrigo.
The Wall Street Journal first reported that Teva was in advanced talks to acquire Allergan’s generic-drug unit.
(Reporting by Greg Roumeliotis in New York; Editing by Steve Orlofsky)
Some members of Greece's leftist government wanted to raid central bank reserves and hack taxpayer accounts to prepare a return to the drachma, according to reports on Sunday that highlighted the chaos in the ruling Syriza party.
It is not clear how seriously the plans, attributed to former Energy Minister Panagiotis Lafazanis and former Finance Minister Yanis Varoufakis, were considered by the government and both ministers were sacked earlier this month. However the reports have been seized on by opposition parties who have demanded an explanation.
The reports came at the end of a week of fevered speculation over what Syriza hardliners had in mind as an alternative to the tough bailout terms that Tsipras reluctantly accepted to keep Greece in the euro.
Around a quarter of the party's 149 lawmakers rebelled over the plan to pass sweeping austerity measures in exchange for up to 86 billion euros in fresh loans and Tsipras has struggled to hold the divided party together
In an interview with Sunday's edition of the RealNews daily, Panagiotis Lafazanis, the hardline former energy minister who lost his job after rebelling over the bailout plans, said he had urged the government to tap the reserves of the Bank of Greece in defiance of the European Central Bank.
Lafazanis, leader of a hardline faction in the ruling Syriza party that has argued for a return to the drachma, said the move would have allowed pensions and public sector wages to be paid if Greece were forced out of the euro.
"The main reason for that was for the Greek economy and Greek people to survive, which is the utmost duty every government has under the constitution," he said.
However he denied a report in the Financial Times that he wanted Bank of Greece Governor Yannis Stouranaras to be arrested if he had opposed a move to empty the central bank vaults. In comments to the semi-official Athens News Agency, he called the report a mixture of "lies, fantasy, fear-mongering, speculation and old-fashioned anti-communism".
In a separate report in the conservative Kathimerini daily, Varoufakis was quoted as saying that a small team in Syriza had prepared plans to secretly copy online tax codes. It said the "Plan B" was devised to allow the government to introduce a parallel payment system if the banking system was closed down.
In remarks the newspaper said were made to an investors' conference on July 16, Varoufakis said passwords used by Greeks to access their online tax accounts were to have been copied secretly and used to issue new PIN numbers for every taxpayer to be used in transactions with the state.
"This would have created a parallel banking system, which would have given us some breathing space, while the banks would have been shut due to the ECB's aggressive policy," Varoufakis was quoted as saying.
Varoufakis, an outspoken academic economist who became deeply unpopular with other European finance ministers during his five months in office, stood down earlier this month to facilitate bailout talks. He has been a strident opponent of the deal ever since.
Under the plan, which the report said went back to before Tsipras was elected in January, transactions through the parallel system would have been nominated in euros but could easily change into drachmas overnight, he was quoted as saying.
Varoufakis has so far not responded to the Kathimerini report.
SHADOW SYSTEMS
The center-right New Democracy party and the centrist To Potami and the Socialist Pasok parties, which all backed Tsipras in parliamentary votes on the bailout this month, demanded a response to the reports.
"The revelations that are coming out raise a major political, economic and moral issue for the government which needs in-depth examination," it said in a statement.
"Is it true that a designated team in the finance ministry had undertaken work on a backup plan? Is it true they had planned to raid the national Mint and that they prepared for a parallel currency by hacking the tax registration numbers of the taxpayers?"
To Potami said the reports of covert plans were worthy of a bad thriller.
The Kathimerini report said access to the Greek tax service's computer systems was under the control of inspectors from the "troika", the international creditors' group, and therefore inaccessible to the government.
As a result, Varoufakis and an official in charge of information systems planned to copy taxpayer codes from online accounts and set up a shadow system. However, according to the report, he said the plan had never been approved by Tsipras.
Deputy Finance Minister Dimitris Mardas denied the government had ever discussed plans to take Greece out of the euro. "I have repeatedly said that such discussions have never taken place at a government policy level," he told Skai television.
(Writing by James Mackenzie; editing by Anna Willard)
Greek banks are set to keep broad cash controls in place for months, until fresh money arrives from Europe and with it a sweeping restructuring, officials believe.
Rehabilitating the country's banks poses a difficult question. Should the eurozone take a stake in the lenders, first requiring bondholders and even big depositors to shoulder a loss, or should the bill for fixing the banks instead be added to Greece's debt mountain?
Answering this could hold up agreement on a third bailout deal for Greece that negotiators want to conclude within weeks.
The longer it takes, the more critical the banks' condition becomes as a 420 euro ($460) weekly limit on cash withdrawals chokes the economy and borrowers' ability to repay loans.
"The banks are in deep freeze but the economy is getting weaker," said one official, pointing to a steady rise in loans that are not being repaid.
This cash 'freeze' is unlikely to thaw soon, although capital controls may be slightly softened, such as the loosening on Friday of restrictions on foreign transfers by businesses.
"Ultimately, you can only lift the capital controls when the banks are sufficiently capitalized," said Jens Weidmann, the head of Germany's Bundesbank, which pushed the ECB to pare back bank funding, leading to their three-week closure.
The debate is interlinked with a wrangle over reforms, about Greek sovereignty in the face of European controls and whether the country can recover with ever rising debts that have topped 300 billion euros, far bigger than its economy.
Were another 25 billion euros to be piled on top - the amount foreseen for the recapitalization of Greek lenders - it would add to debts that the International Monetary Fund has argued are excessive.
BERLIN CALLING
Greek officials, alarmed by a downward spiral in the economy, want an urgent release of funds for their banks.
Four big banks dominate Greece. Of those, National Bank of Greece, Eurobank and Piraeus fell short in an ECB health check last year, when their restructuring plans were not taken into account. The situation is now dramatically worse.
"We want, if possible, an initial amount to be ready for the first needs of the banks," said one official at the Greek finance ministry, who spoke on condition of anonymity. "That should be about 10 billion euros."
Others, including Germany, however, are lukewarm and could push for losses for large depositors with more than 100,000 euros on their accounts, or bondholders.
There are more than 20 billion euros of such deposits in Greece's four main banks, dwarfing the roughly 3 billion euros of bonds the banks have issued.
Imposing a loss, something the Greek government has repeatedly denied any planning for, would be controversial, not least because much of this money is held by small Greek companies rather than wealthy individuals.
"This is not like Cyprus where you can say these are just Russian oligarchs," said an insolvency lawyer familiar with Greece.
"It's the very community everyone is hoping will resuscitate Greece, namely the corporates. You'll end up depriving them of their cash."
Christian Noyer, who heads France's central bank and sits on the ECB's Governing Council, also cautioned against such a step and said many of his peers on the policy-setting body agreed with him.
The tone in Berlin is different, where some advocate not only that bank creditors foot the bill but also that the ESM steer clear of any direct stake, lumbering Athens with the banks' clean-up.
"The recapitalization will have to be done by the Greek government so that means more money in the third program," said Marcel Fratzscher, president of the Berlin-based German Institute for Economic Research.
"It's a loan they have to repay but there is no risk-sharing on the European side. They will have to bail in the private creditors. I can't see how this could not happen."
To avoid such orders, Athens is battling to keep autonomy in deciding the fate of its banks. Ceding further control could cost it dearly. Bondholders are nervous.
Cyprus is a case in point. When Cyprus was bailed out, one of the island's two main banks was closed. Capital controls, although gradually scaled back, remained in place for two years.
One option, according to eurozone officials, is the direct recapitalization of Greece's banks by the eurozone's rescue fund, the European Stability Mechanism (ESM).
This could grant the Luxembourg-based authority a direct stake in the banks and greater control over their future.
That, however, would take Greece closer to the Cyprus model. Any such direct ESM aid requires that losses first be imposed on some of the banks' bondholders and even large depositors.
In Athens, officials would like the money without such strings attached.
"We don't know yet if the ESM will take direct control," said one senior Greek banker. "It will be an issue at the negotiations."
With its economy starved of cash and the threat of its departure from the eurozone hanging over talks, Athens' room for maneuver is limited. One eurozone official summarized the mood: "Whatever sympathy there was for Greece has evaporated."
(Additional reporting by Francesco Canepa and Frank Siebelt in Frankfurt and James Mackenzie and George Georgiopoulos in Athens; writing by John O'Donnell; editing by Giles Elgood)
Low crude-oil prices have dealt a serious blow to Alaska’s state budget and threatened funding for everything from universities to the ferry system. Crude revenue funds about 90 percent of the state’s budget, but oil prices have dropped precipitously since last summer -- leaving a $3 billion hole in the budget that lawmakers patched by dipping into reserves.
In December, Gov. Bill Walker was so worried about the budget that he ordered the overseers of six megaprojects to halt any new spending on those facilities. That freeze gave many Alaskans the impression that some projects could soon be on the chopping block, despite the state having already sunk millions of dollars into their completion. The state’s former transportation commissioner resigned in a huff over the order. 
With a brand-new budget in place since mid-June, work on most of those threatened projects is once again beginning this month. However, Alaska’s budget problem is far from solved -- so the future of these projects remains uncertain.
An artist's rendering depicts the Susitna-Watana Hydroelectric Project, which would be one of the tallest dams in the U.S. Photo: Alaska Energy Authority
Susitna-Watana Hydroelectric Project 
High energy prices have long hindered Alaskan families from achieving prosperity and stifled businesses, so the state invested in a new hydroelectric dam to bring energy costs down. Alaska already generates about 21 percent of the electricity used statewide from hydropower, which is by far the most popular source of renewable energy in a state that has built a reputation on nonrenewable sources.
The Susitna-Watana Hydroelectric Project is expected to generate 2.8 million megawatt hours of electricity per year from three giant turbines once it’s fully operational. That’s enough energy to meet more than 50 percent of the electricity needs of the 500,000 residents who live in a central swath of the state for at least a century.
The 705-foot-high dam would be the fifth-tallest dam in the U.S. once complete (the Hoover Dam on the Colorado River is about 730 feet tall). Just last week, the project coordinators received a green light to spend $6 million of previously frozen funds, according to Alaska Public Media: It amounts to about 3 percent of the project’s $5.5 billion total budget.
Alaska's state capital, Juneau, currently is inaccessible by road. Photo: Wikimedia Commons
A Road For The State Capital
It may appear as it every state should have a road to its capital city, but Alaska does not. Juneau is home to 31,000 people, but is inaccessible by road -- constituents must take a ferry or plane to get there. Juneau is the largest city in North America that is not connected to the continental highway system.  
A new 50-mile road would better connect Juneau’s residents to ferries which run to the neighboring towns of Haines and Skagway and from there to the state’s major highways. Called the Juneau Access Improvement Project, the roadway is projected to cost $574 million. 
However, critics say the state will only earn a public benefit of 28 cents for every dollar it spends on the road, Alaska Dispatch News reported. The American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials does not recommend pursuing any project that does not return at least a dollar for every dollar that is spent. Engineers also caution that the area’s steep terrain means avalanches could shut down the road for 34 days out of the year, the New York Times said.
Construction is not yet under way, but progress on lining up the necessary paperwork has continued after a brief stall. The state is completing an environmental-impact statement for the proposed project, and should reach a decision on whether to proceed in January 2016, the Alaska Journal of Commerce reported.
The Knik Arm bridge would connect Anchorage, Alaska's largest city with its fastest-growing community.  Photo: State of Alaska
A Bridge To Somewhere
Anchorage is the state’s largest city, perched on the breathtaking coast of Cook Inlet in southwestern Alaska. Lately, though, more residents have chosen to live in the neighboring Matanuska-Susitna Borough, which is separated from the city by a part of Cook Inlet called Knik Arm. The Knik Arm bridge project is a 1.74-mile toll bridge that would provide direct access to Anchorage for these residents.
The bridge was first proposed in 1923, but it has repeatedly met with opposition by members of an Anchorage neighborhood at the bridge’s terminus who fear it will disrupt their area, with local businesses being bought out to enable its construction. It will take about four years to build.
A sizable chunk of the $782 million project budget is being paid by federal transportation grants and loans, and much of the rest is being privately financed based on the toll revenue it expects to collect. That formula may explain why Gov. Walker said this month that work could proceed on the bridge, Alaska Dispatch News reported.
The Trans-Alaska Pipeline System carries oil from the North Slope to the Port of Valdez. A newly proposed natural-gas pipeline would extend from the North Slope to just north of Anchorage.  Photo: Wikimedia Commons
A Natural-Gas Pipeline
Alaska’s famous oil pipeline, pictured here, has helped to make the state one of the wealthiest in the nation. But its throughput has dwindled since the 1980s and the pipeline isn’t generating nearly as much revenue as it once did. Its long success inspired residents and policymakers to propose another pipeline -- this time for natural gas -- to stretch from the state’s prized oil and gas fields on the North Slope to a site just north of Anchorage.
The Alaska Gasline Development Corp. is tasked with planning a 727-mile pipeline called the Alaska Stand Alone Pipeline at a price tag of $10 billion. There is also a much larger gas pipeline project in the works that would cost $45 billion to $65 billion, Alaska Dispatch News reported. Only one will be built, but the state was exploring both options until legislators refused to fund the smaller project in the newest state budget due to fiscal concerns, to the disappointment of Gov. Walker. For now, the project is on hold.
Alaska is attempting to expand its capabilities to launch so-called medium-lift rockets at the Pacific Spaceport Complex. Photo: Wikimedia Commons
A Rocket Launchpad
Alaska’s sparse population makes the state a great place to launch experimental drones or rockets, and the Poker Flat Research Range at the University of Alaska in Fairbanks has been sending research rockets skyward for years. In fact, Poker Flat is the largest land-based rocket research range in the world. 
Another facility, called the Pacific Spaceport Complex-Alaska and located south of Poker Flat on Kodiak Island, is a project of the Alaska Aerospace Development Corp. The facility has already launched several rockets and currently specializes in so-called small-lift varieties, which cost $2 million to $4 million to launch. However, it wants to expand to so-called medium-lift rockets up to 18 stories high, which will bring in even more revenue. 
Alaskan lawmakers have already spent $50 million to support the facility over the years and recently reinstated $22 million of the original $25 million of capital funding that was intended to support its expansion. In light of the state’s ongoing budget squeeze, project leaders are also seeking private funding, the Alaska Journal of Commerce reported.
The Red Dog Mine is located in northwestern Alaska in the same area as the Ambler Mining District. It is the world’s largest source of zinc, and a leading source of lead. Photo: Flickr/Robert Cummings
A Road To Gold 
The Alaska Gold Rush played a big role in shaping the state’s legacy, even though miners in those early days had little infrastructure to rely on as they made their way north. Today, affordable access is still a challenge for modern miners in some resource-rich parts of the state. For example, Alaska’s Northwest Arctic Borough is roughly the size of Indiana and boasts 11 communities, but it has no roads. 
The proposed Ambler road would extend for 200 miles from the Dalton Highway, Alaska’s famous so-called Ice Road in the television show “Ice Road Truckers,” to a northwestern corner of the state that currently has no road access. It would lead directly to the Ambler Mining District, which has reserves of copper, lead and zinc, as well as gold. But Native communities in the area are concerned the road could impact their subsistence lifestyle.
The project must still undergo an environmental-impact assessment, and funding for that stage is pending, according to the Alaska Journal of Commerce.
COLORADO SPRINGS, Colorado -- It’s a busy afternoon at The Lazy Lion, a members-only marijuana club in this notoriously conservative city. Inside the windowless one-story building in an industrial part of town, attendees who’ve paid the club’s $5 daily membership fee line up at a glass bar to acquire bags of marijuana or take hits from one of the establishment’s water pipes, for which they hand over a cash “reimbursement” (under Colorado law, people aren’t allowed to consume cannabis at locations licensed to sell marijuana).
Colorado Springs has banned recreational-marijuana shops in the city, but its zoning laws allow for private clubs, which is where establishments such as The Lazy Lion fit in. These sorts of gathering places are desperately needed, says the club’s general manager, Aaron Stone. “A lot of time on the retail side, people leave the stores with misinformation, and don’t know how to use what they buy,” he says, noting that in its two-and-a-half year run, The Lazy Lion has played host to job interviews, homework sessions and even post-wedding celebrations.
But would Colorado tourists or marijuana novices really feel at ease inside a place such as The Lazy Lion? And if not, where should people go to consume cannabis with their peers? Marijuana, with its pass-the-joint cultural heritage, has always been a social drug. But so far, recreational-marijuana laws have steadfastly avoided dealing with the social parameters of cannabis use. Colorado and other states that have legalized marijuana have outlawed public cannabis consumption, but what about consumption behind closed doors and among consenting adults? It’s a conundrum that has major financial and social implications for the developing legal marijuana industry.
A proposed Denver initiative aims to solve the problem by allowing establishments like bars to permit limited marijuana consumption on the premises, but people are torn as to whether marijuana use should be segregated in separate-but-equal cannabis establishments or integrated with other vices such as alcohol.
A reveler participates in a 4/20 event in Denver. Photo: JaneWest.com
The proposal would allow people to bring their own cannabis to businesses like bars, clubs and theaters that have dedicated indoor spaces for vaporized cannabis and outdoor patios for marijuana smoking, provided those spaces are limited to those 21 and older and aren’t visible from or within 25 feet of public spaces. The measure is notable not just because of its far-reaching approach to marijuana consumption in social settings, but also because of those behind it: Brian Vicente and Mason Tvert, the prominent attorney-and-advocate duo who spearheaded the development and passage of Colorado’s Amendment 64 in 2012, legalizing adult marijuana use in the state.
Denver and Colorado have led the nation in reforming marijuana laws, and with the team behind Amendment 64 backing the recently proposed initiative, cannabis in bars could be a part of the nation’s new marijuana normal.
From Bars To Bagel Shops
“We feel that adults should be able to use marijuana while socializing with other adults who are using alcohol,” says Tvert, communications director for the Marijuana Policy Project, which needs to gather 4,726 signatures by early August to get the initiative on the city’s November ballot. “[Amendment 64] clearly allows for this type of activity. We should know, because we wrote it that way intentionally.”
While many Denverites appear to agree (a poll commissioned by the initiative’s backers found 56 percent of likely city voters support the limited social-use initiative), proprietors of some of the establishments that could allow marijuana use in the event the measure passes aren’t so thrilled by the proposal. “The Colorado Restaurant Association is against the measure,” says Carolyn Livingston, communication director of the association, which represents about one-half of the state’s eating establishments. “Encouraging the combination of marijuana and alcohol poses huge liability questions for restaurants.”
Mason Tvert (right) and Brian Vicente speak at a news conference. Photo: Marijuana Policy Project
In addition, Livingston says, “Current state law does not allow for marijuana consumption that is conducted openly and publicly, and restaurants are public places.” Colorado law defines a public space as “a place to which the public or a substantial number of the public has access.” While restaurants and theaters open to all ages would certainly fall into this category, the question is, would 21-and-over spaces in bars, clubs and other establishments be considered sufficiently private to skirt the law? Even if this is the case, other questions remain over how these new marijuana-consumption rules would work with existing operating procedures. Would establishments have to obtain additional licenses to have marijuana-consumption spaces, similar to the way bars and restaurants require liquor licenses? And could bagel shops and bookstores create adult-only spaces for cannabis use? (And if they could, would that be a bad thing?)
Members-only cannabis clubs such as The Lazy Lion have faced their own share of legal snafus. Two Colorado jurisdictions, the mountain town of Nederland and Pueblo County in southern Colorado, have passed statutes allowing for 21-and-over marijuana clubs (and the former now boasts the first civically sanctioned social establishment, ClubNed), most communities haven’t weighed in on the legitimacy of such enterprises, which means those who attempt to open clubs in these locales are operating in a legal gray area. In some communities, such as Colorado Springs, these operations have managed to stay open, but in others, club owners haven’t been so lucky. In March, Alaska police raided a marijuana club that had opened in Anchorage, and a month later Denver authorities shut down two clubs operating in the city. Washington state, which has also legalized recreational marijuana, just passed a law prohibiting members-only marijuana clubs, to avoid the issue altogether.
While officials quibble over what constitutes marijuana use in public spaces and discourage private cannabis establishments, they’re avoiding an overarching issue: A growing number of people have declared with their votes that they’re OK with adult marijuana consumption, and so now they need places to do it. “Once people have the right to acquire cannabis, the next logical step forward is figuring out what do they do with it,” says Hilary Bricken, lead attorney at the Canna Law Group in Seattle. “People are saying, ‘So I can have it, but where can I use it and not feel like a criminal?’”
Marijuana Manners
One of the most obvious challenges of not providing social spaces for cannabis use is the headaches it presents for marijuana tourism. Denver is enjoying a booming tourism industry -- in 2014, the city broke records for visitors and tourist spending -- and while the local tourism board is loath to give any credit to the city’s 125 retail marijuana stores (“We have not seen any bump in tourism that we can attribute solely to legalized marijuana,” says Visit Denver CEO Richard Scharf), those in the cannabis industry believe otherwise. And marijuana boosters think that the lack of legit, welcoming locations for those coming to sample the state’s newest tourism draw is doing the cannatourism industry a disservice, especially since hotels and bed-and-breakfast inns that allow marijuana consumption are few and far between.
“It’s kind of forcing tourists to break the law,” says Jeremy Bamford, founder of PotGuide.com, a marijuana-friendly online visitors guide. “Some people won’t care and will smoke in their hotel room and take the hit on the room-cleaning charge. Others want to stay on the right side of the law and try to stay at marijuana-friendly hotels, if they can find them. It’s kind of silly, because they are out here to consume it.”
The lack of guidance around social consumption has also proven burdensome for businesses and event promoters hoping to host marijuana-infused cultural events.
That includes Jane West, founder of Edible Events Co., who for nearly two years has been hosting cannabis-friendly parties in Colorado and has faced pushback every step of the way. When she helped plan a series of Denver parties to celebrate Colorado launching its retail marijuana market Jan. 1, 2014, every bar and restaurant she worked with received a cease-and-desist letter from the city threatening to take its liquor license. When she held a 4/20 brunch at a bakery last year, a SWAT team barged in and charged her with serving alcohol without a license, something she says she didn’t need because it was a private event. Then, when West partnered last year with the Colorado Symphony Orchestra on a series of bring-your-own-marijuana fundraising concerts at a local art gallery, lawyers for the city of Denver warned her the events risked violating public marijuana-use laws, forcing the symphony to refund all ticket sales and make the events invitation-only. “The symphony came to me because they wanted to bring in a new demographic,” West says. “And that is exactly what we did. Over 90 percent of the first rounds of tickets sold were to people who had never been to the Colorado Symphony Orchestra before. We had people purchasing tickets from 10 different states, and the city said we had to refund every last one.”
Edible Events arranges a party in Denver. Photo: JaneWest.com
The lack of cannabis-friendly social spaces is more than just an inconvenience for tourists and event organizers. There’s a bigger issue related to not having a place to consume marijuana socially: Thanks to decades of public drinking at bars, restaurants and other establishments, people have developed a robust social understanding of alcohol consumption -- we know the difference between having a glass of wine with dinner and throwing down six shots of whiskey at a bar. But because cannabis has been illegal, all marijuana use has long remained taboo, whether it’s a single puff of a joint or an afternoon of heavy bong hits. “There is not as much of an inherent cultural understanding around marijuana,” Tvert said in an interview last year. “For far too long, marijuana education has entailed an abstinence-only approach that does nothing to educate a person about the actual effects of marijuana.”
One of the benefits of going to social spaces designed for marijuana consumption instead of experimenting in private residences or hotel rooms is that it would allow people to develop a social lexicon about cannabis use. That’s why some people believe allowing members-only marijuana clubs isn’t enough. “If you have cannabis clubs, you’re just going to cater to the existing cannabis culture,” says Kayvan Khalatbari, co-owner of the Denver Relief dispensary and a cannabis consultant who’s helping to bankroll the social-use initiative in Denver. “If you allow it in establishments with liquor licenses, cabaret licenses and performance licenses, all of a sudden you have it in the mainstream. It is going to be a lot more normal, and it’s going to change perceptions a lot quicker.”
A Bad Mix?
In some ways, it’s fitting that the people originally behind Amendment 64 are pushing to allow cannabis use in the sort of establishments that normally sell beer and liquor. After all, their 2012 statewide legalization initiative called for the regulation of marijuana like alcohol. But there’s also some political dissonance in these activists’ latest move. For years, Colorado legalization supporters hammered home the idea that cannabis was safer than booze. So then does it really make sense to associate marijuana use with what they’ve long insisted is a far more dangerous substance?
That conflict has led some of the most prominent marijuana advocates to oppose the Denver social-use initiative. In a recent blog post, Keith Stroup, founder of the National Organization to Reform Marijuana Laws, argued against allowing cannabis in bars and clubs, noting: “The two drugs, when used together, are synergistic, and the effect of combining the two causes far greater short-term impairment than either drug by itself, raising legitimate questions of public safety if alcohol bars and clubs were also marijuana-friendly. It would require the bartender to be far more careful about ‘cutting-off’ anyone who appeared to be getting drunk, and their track record in that regard is not reassuring.”
Mixing marijuana and alcohol at drinking establishments might do more than just leave patrons with a bad night: It could spell trouble for the marijuana legalization movement as a whole. The biggest lingering public-health question about recreational-marijuana use is whether it will replace or complement alcohol use in the states that have legalized it. If it turns out that cannabis replaces alcohol, leading to less alcohol consumption around the country, the net public benefit would be so great that nationwide legalization would likely be a slam dunk. But if it’s the opposite -- that legalized marijuana complements or even exacerbates alcohol use and leads to greater incidences of accidents or fatalities -- legalization advocates could have a big problem on their hands.
Mark Kleiman, professor of public policy at the Marron Institute of Urban Management at New York University, believes that locating marijuana use in the same places that serve beer and liquor could risk tipping the scales toward the latter scenario. “If marijuana is really a substitute for alcohol, bars wouldn’t allow it,” he says. “Especially since, so far, nobody is talking about allowing them to sell it.”
UPDATE 6:20 p.m. EDT: WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The U.S. auto safety watchdog, toughening its stance against manufacturer defects, on Sunday set a record penalty of $105 million against Fiat Chrysler Automobiles NV over lapses in safety recalls involving millions of vehicles, according to documents obtained by Reuters.
Original post:
A U.S. government agency is expected announce a record $105 million fine for Fiat Chrysler early next week, as a result of lapses in recalls that affected millions of vehicles, according to a Wall Street Journal report.
The fine, from the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) is expected to come in addition to a series of other measures, including forcing the company to have future recall processes scrutinized by an independent monitor, and having it buy back a series of recalled vehicles to get them off the road, the paper reported, citing a source familiar with the matter.
The company will also make payments to owners of 1.56 million recalled older-model Jeeps, which have gas tanks behind the rear axle, to push them into bringing the vehicles to dealers to install trailer hitches that will help protect the tanks. The tanks are vulnerable and can leak gasoline if damaged in rear collisions, the Associated Press reported.
Over 70 people have been killed in fires involving Jeeps with this defect. Only 12 percent of owners have brought their vehicles in for repairs to minimize the risk associated with it, despite a recall being initiated in June 2013, the New York Times reported.
The agency's actions come less than a month after it took the unusual step of holding a public hearing on the problems with 23 Fiat Chrysler recalls covering over 11 million vehicles. The hearing, combined with the expected announcement of a record fine for the company, is a sign that regulators are taking an increasingly hard stance against automakers that fail to comply with safety laws.
Many consumer complaints were aired at last month's hearing, including the case of a 1998 Jeep Grand Cherokee owner who was told to contact a dealer to have a free trailer hitch installed on his vehicle. When he did so, he was told he would need to wait for parts to be available, and was not subsequently contacted by the company for over a year.
News of the fine comes just days after Fiat Chrysler announced the recall of 1.4 million Dodges, Jeeps, Rams and Chryslers after discovering that a software flaw in the cars’ radios makes them vulnerable to hackers.
TOKYO (Reuters) - Three people were killed when a small airplane crashed into a residential area of the Japanese capital, Tokyo, on Sunday, public broadcaster NHK reported, setting fire to houses and cars.
Television footage showed the plane crashed upside down in the wreckage of a burnt-out house as firefighters and rescue officials scoured the smoking ruins. Several other houses nearby also appeared to be badly damaged.
NHK said two men inside the small plane, which was carrying five people, were killed. A woman who was inside one of the houses was also killed and five people were injured, it said.
"I heard a tremendous sound like a truck crashed into a house... When I looked outside from a window, fire was flaring up," an unidentified woman told NHK.
"The fire was blazing up so hard," she said.
The Tokyo Fire Department said three people were "in cardiopulmonary arrest", a description usually used by officials in Japan until deaths are confirmed by a medical examiner.
The fire department also said five houses and at least two cars had been set ablaze.
(Reporting by Kaori Kaneko; Editing by Paul Tait)
Many of the almost 40,000 workers at Verizon Communications Inc.'s wireline unit voted to strike amid negotiations over a new labor agreement. The Communications Workers of America (CWA) union announced the results of the vote -- 86 percent of the workers who cast ballots approved the strike -- during a rally in New York Saturday.
The move does not necessarily mean workers will go on strike. It is designed to give negotiatiors with the CWA and the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers more power at the bargaining table and increase pressure on the telecommunications giant to reach an agreement before the current four-year labor contract expires Aug. 1. As those talks proceed, unions have slammed what they call Verizon's demands to "eliminate job security, slash pensions and increase health care costs."
Verizon representative Rich Young blasted the protest. "Union rallies and strike-authorization votes are useless distractions that achieve nothing," Young told Reuters. "We believe their time would be far more beneficial focusing on the important contractual issues that need to be resolved."
In addition to union leaders, New York City Public Advocate Letita James spoke at the rally:
Job security, fair wages, and strong benefits are not luxuries - they are basic rights!! #StandUp2Vz pic.twitter.com/7TfP242bXs
&mdash; Letitia James (@TishJames) July 25, 2015
The contract being negotiated covers 39,000 workers in nine states along the East Coast and Washington. It includes employees who work in landline telephone operations and the popular FiOS network, which bundles together Internet, phone and television services.
Union membership at Verizon has declined considerably over the past couple of decades -- the combined result of buyouts, retirements, technological changes and the company's sales of certain operations. Less than one-third of the firm's employees are now covered by collective-bargaining agreements, and Verizon's wireless unit remains effectively union-free. At the same time, labor strife at the company has proven to be a relatively common occurrence. Verizon's landline workers last walked off their jobs en masse in 2011 as negotiatiors battled over the terms of the current agreement. 
If the workers do go on strike, it would be the largest work stoppage in the U.S. this year.
Germany's financial watchdog BaFin has cleared Deutsche Bank's former co-chief executive Anshu Jain of lying to the Bundesbank during investigations into interest rate manipulation, the Financial Times reported on Saturday.
Citing a copy of a letter seen by the paper, the FT said BaFin President Felix Hufeld had told Jain this month that BaFin considered the "probable" interpretation of the evidence weighed in Jain's favor and that it was dropping that part of its probe into Libor-rigging at Deutsche Bank. 
According to the paper, Hufeld wrote in the letter dated July 17: "The suspicion that you made knowingly incorrect statements to a regulator seems unsubstantiated to me ... This aspect will therefore no longer be relevant in the continued assessment by BaFin."
The paper said Hufeld added that all the other allegations against Jain and the bank are still being evaluated by the watchdog, which is not expected to make its final determinations on the matter until the autumn.
BaFin and Jain, who resigned his position as CEO effective June 30, were not immediately available for comment on Saturday. "We continue to work with our regulator to bring this inquiry to a conclusion," Deutsche Bank said in an emailed statement.
The bank had told Reuters earlier this month that it disputed the allegation by BaFin that Jain had misled the Bundesbank, Germany's central bank. The German regulator has been investigating Deutsche Bank and the role it played during the financial crisis when Libor, a global inter-bank lending rate mechanism, was being manipulated.
Regulators have accused some of the world's largest financial institutions of tainting markets with fraud and collusion and several top executives have lost their jobs over the scandal. Deutsche Bank, Germany's largest lender, agreed with U.S. and British authorities in April to pay a record $2.5 billion to resolve investigations it manipulated benchmark interest rates used to price loans and contracts around the world.
U.S. President Barack Obama’s first official visit to his father’s home country of Kenya was mostly a friendly diplomatic affair, including a dinner with extended family and a pledge to launch a new direct flight connecting citizens in both nations. But Obama’s disagreement with Kenya’s President Uhuru Kenyatta on the issue of gay rights came to the forefront at a joint press conference at the Statehouse in Nairobi Saturday.
The presidential discussion highlighted the delicate challenge the U.S. faces in maintaining strong relations with foreign states that impose imprisonment and other harsh punishments on gay citizens, which the American government has called an abuse of human rights.
Obama said before the press conference that a frank discussion of Kenya’s discriminatory policies on gay rights would be on the agenda when he met with Kenyatta. In Kenya, sodomy is a crime punishable by as long as 14 years in prison, according to the Associated Press.
Obama on gay rights in Kenya: As African American in the US I am painfully aware of what happens when ppl treated differently under the law
&mdash; Carol Lee (@carol_e_lee) July 25, 2015
The Obama administration has attempted to address this issue in other African countries with similar restrictions. Last year, Obama pressed Uganda’s leaders to act against an Anti-Homosexuality Act that would impose a life sentence on citizens for “aggravated homosexuality.” The bill passed, and the U.S. pulled financial aid for government-led police and health services from the country, as Politico reported. Before and during the press conference, however, Kenyatta brushed aside Obama’s concerns about the prosecution of gay Kenyans, calling it a “nonissue.” 
@UKenyatta &quot;Kenya and the US share so many values but not on #Homosexuality. Gay rights are a non-issue&quot; @dailynation #ObamaInKenya
&mdash; Eunice Kilonzo (@Eunicekkilonzo) July 25, 2015
Kenyan president on Gay rights: US/Kenya share so many values... &quot;There are some things that we must admit we don&#39;t share.&quot;
&mdash; Edith Honan (@edithhonan) July 25, 2015
Expanding Access To Electricity
Outside the area of gay rights, Obama and Kenyatta echoed one another’s commitment to several shared policies and nation-building initiatives throughout the visit. Both leaders expressed a desire to strengthen the already-friendly relations between their countries. Kenyatta said Kenya is committed to “deepening partnerships that already existed” between the U.S. and other countries, both east and west, in the name of progress.
During the press conference, Obama announced a proposed ban on the transport of ivory across U.S. state lines in a move to protect African elephants from poachers.
When asked by a reporter about his legacy in Africa, Obama replied by highlighting his effort to bring electricity to rural Africa through a $7 billion project called Power Africa, which was recently criticized in the New York Times for having yet to deliver a single megawatt of electricity.
“If we can get sub-Saharan Africa to be electrified at the same level Asia is -- that alone is going to drive economic productivity exponentially,” Obama said. “It’s a game-changer.”
The heads of state also unveiled plans for a direct flight between Kenya and the U.S., which both said would be an important step in drawing the nations closer together. However, they did not announce an official date for the air service to launch. “I anticipate that, if we can get all the issues squared away, that this is something that has great potential and obviously would have a beneficial impact on U.S. travel to Kenya, both for business and for tourism,” Obama said. 
A Family Affair 
Obama, who met with members of his extended family in Kenya over dinner Friday night, said he wishes to become more involved in Kenya through philanthropic work after completing his term as president. “I’m more restricted, ironically, as president of the United States than I will be as a private citizen in terms of some of the hands-on direct help I’d like to give,” he said. 
When asked to expand on those plans, Obama replied by declining to offer more details except to say that first lady Michele Obama and their daughters, Sasha and Malia, would likely accompany him on future trips.
“Here’s what I can guarantee -- I’ll be back,” he said.
About 20 years ago, my mother bought what would become my favorite poster: a picture of a McLaren F1, at the time the best machine that man could build. Even as someone barely old enough to understand that cars were powered by something other than magic, I found myself, for the first time, awestruck. Here was a car capable of surpassing 240 mph, while the speedometer in my mother’s Honda Civic barely broke 100 mph. But when McLaren agreed to loan me a new 650S Spider, the collective response from those around me was, “What’s a McLaren?”
McLaren is a small manufacturer tucked away in Woking, England, about 30 miles from London. It’s well-known in elite racing circles such as Formula One, but has also produced some road cars to compete with elite brands such as Ferrari and Lamborghini. Among many car enthusiasts in their mid-20s to mid-30s, McLaren’s original road car (the F1) still stands as one of the best ever built, for its dedication to raw speed and simplicity. The company has always embodied that philosophy.
The McLaren 650S is, by all expert accounts, a fundamentally brilliant car. So I’m not going to waste time building intrigue and casting doubt, because you already know it’s superb. It’s even more compelling in convertible form, where, I think, it’s one of the most beautiful cars on sale today. You could say that about its main rivals, too, the Ferrari 488 and Lamborghini Huracan. After all, they’re mid-engined supercars just like the McLaren. But the Italians build bombastic, look-at-how-awesome-we-are cars, replete with matching interiors. Above all, McLaren is a company that builds race cars -- and it kind of shows.
McLaren builds simple, functional interiors. They're there to keep you in control and focused on the next corner rather than on impressing dinner guests. Photo: International Business Times/Vincent Balestriere
Inside, there’s a nondescript steering wheel with some paddles attached to the back and a few buttons for drive modes. That’s it. There’s nothing ostentatious or ornate: Its form is its function. You’ll still wow passersby (the doors open upward, after all), even if they’ve never seen the badge before. If you want something that everyone will envy for obvious reasons, this isn’t the supercar for you.
But that doesn’t mean you won’t get attention, especially with the “sports exhaust.” A word of consumer advice: Pick this option, you’ll want it. Its harmonic notes not only pierce the heavens at a high rpm but also crackle at a low speed like the machine’s making popcorn. It’s basically the best thing ever, and if it doesn’t make you smile, you just plain don’t like cars.

The interior is less grandiose than the sound, however. Sure, there’s brushed aluminum and leather, but compared with its exotic brethren the 650S is rather spartan -- you don’t even get music controls on the steering wheel. The body is understated by supercar standards, with soft elegant curves flowing around it, rather than angry angles, bulbous rear lights or jagged edges added for the sake of style.
It’s simply for driving. It’s a funny thing: All too often, automotive journalists will wax poetic about the “soul” and “passion” of cars like this, although those specific words are usually reserved for Italian brands. But the 650S feels alive. When I first slid into its driver’s seat, I felt at home. There was no learning curve, and there were no hours spent adjusting to the position, even though I typically drive a considerably less iconic old hatchback. Something is intangibly right about the 650S, and therein lies the charm of McLaren: details you may never see or notice come together in harmony.
McLaren's carbon ceramic brakes are no joke. The 650S squeaks a bit before the materials heat up, but when you need to stop in a hurry, you'd better hold onto your eyeballs. Photo: International Business Times/Vincent Balestriere
Sometimes, harmony is the middle of a storm. The 650S packs a 3.8-liter, twin-turbo V-8 that produces (as the name implies) 650 PS of power (or 641 horsepower) and 500 pounds of torque: It provides facial restructuring services at no extra cost. It redlines at 8,500 rpm, and when you ask it to do so, it sounds like you’re riding on the cusp of a hurricane.
It’s a benign giant by default, but when you ask for power, the 650S is quick to wake. Once the car knows you’re in the mood for fun, it just gives you all the power in creation. For the uninitiated, it’s probably terrifying -- actually, even as someone who grew up around a maniacally powerful car (something like this), the 650S is still ludicrously fast. Sixty mph is dispatched in less than three seconds, and 125 mph comes before most things reach 60 (the top speed is 207 mph, by the way). Braking is handled by carbon ceramic rotors that make it appear as though they could break your neck.
Even the traction and powertrain controls in the McLaren 650S are simple: one button to turn the systems on, and two knobs to control output. Photo: International Business Times/Vincent Balestriere
It’s just as eager to devour corners, as you might expect. Granted, I didn’t get to drive on that many awesome roads (thanks, New York), but the sleepy onramps and clover handles I stormed around on early July mornings haven’t seen a car this capable in a long time, if ever. It grips hard and just hangs on to a line, remaining flat on even off-camber corners as it the laws of physics don’t exist. It’s neutral and supercommunicative, which inspires tremendous confidence, but you had better respect it. It will save a moron with all the aides turned on (as it’s safely tuned to push ever so slightly), and even in sport mode it will hold you on a loose leash. But take things one step further to “Track” mode and you had better know what you’re doing if you don’t want to end up backward in a bush. I’m sure you could get it sideways (just ask Chris Harris), but the car will have none of that on the street, so please don’t try.
Despite that DNA, it’s not difficult to drive. Like other modern supercars, it will tread around city streets and attempt to do its best to leave the peace intact, even though, really, it would rather not. The 650S’s V-8 is mated to a seven-speed, dual-clutch transmission that will do all the shifting if you prefer things that way, but it never tries to hide its manual roots. Even in fully automatic mode, you feel the same balancing act from the car’s electronics that you’d be managing yourself with a traditional three-pedal setup. It’s a bit hesitant until you get the throttle input just right to manage smooth take-offs.
The McLaren 650S is absolutely incredible, and I'm sad I could never afford one. Photo: International Business Times/Vincent Balestriere
Even when it’s busy rearranging the feng shui of your face, the McLaren never feels brittle or dangerous. It’ll do sprints to triple digits, rip your face off with its carbon ceramic brakes and cartoonish levels of grip, go back up to silly speeds two seconds later and then just as easily join slow-moving traffic without so much as a complaint or a rattle. If you own this or something like it, I implore you take it to a track. It’s too good to waste away in a garage or cruise highways its whole life, and in convertible form it might be the best thing I’ll ever drive.
And you know, I don’t even mind that it left a tiny puddle of coolant in my driveway.
U.K. publishing and education company  Pearson  is locked in negotiations to sell its 50 percent stake in the Economist Group, which publishes the Economist, a weekly newsmagazine. The talks over a potential sale are with other group shareholders, according to a source close to the situation.
The news came in the same week that Pearson agreed to sell the Financial Times,  Britain's leading financial-news publication, to Japan's Nikkei Group for about $1.3 billion to focus on its education business.
Pearson's stake in the Economist Group is believed to be worth about 400 million pounds ($620 million), according to reports in the Financial Times that cited two people close to the situation.
A company statement said, "Pearson confirms it is in discussions with the Economist Group board and trustees regarding the potential sale of our 50 percent share in the group." It also said there is "no certainty that this process will lead to a transaction."
Pearson acquired its stake in the Economist Group in 1957, alongside its purchase of the salmon-colored daily newspaper.
The Financial Times reported that any  sale would have to be approved by the four trustees of the Economist Group: Baroness Virginia Bottomley, a Conservative former member of parliament; Lord O'Donnell, John Major's former press secretary; Tim Clark, deputy chairman of the consultancy G3; and Bryan Sanderson, an emeritus governor of the London School of Economics.
Among other shareholders of the Economist Group are the Agnelli, Cadbury and Rothschild families; the British asset-management company Schroder; and both former and current staff members.
Intelligence and security experts say a recent breach of U.S. federal employee data by Chinese hackers could abruptly bring the country’s strategy of basing secret U.S. intelligence units abroad to a halt. Government records containing the Social Security numbers of 21.5 million federal employees and their spouses or partners were stolen from the computer systems of the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) in a massive hack that was first made public in June.
China’s government is considered the “leading suspect” in the hack, Director of National Intelligence James R. Clapper told CNN this month.
Last year, employee data was also stolen from two firms that conducted background checks for the Department of Homeland Security.
Intelligence and security experts are worried that the information collected through those hacks may permit the Chinese government to piece together the identities of spies who have worked in China.
“From an intelligence perspective, it gives you great insight potentially used for counterintelligence purposes,” Adm. Michael S. Rogers, the director of the National Security Agency, said during an interview at the Aspen Security Forum in Colorado this week. “If I’m interested in trying to identify U.S. persons who may be in my country and I am trying to figure out why they are there -- Are they just tourists? Are they there for some other alternative purpose? -- there are interesting insights from the data you take from OPM.”
Now, experts are concerned about the future of U.S. intelligence programs that rely on undercover officers based in foreign countries, the New York Times reported. If the identities of its undercover officers cannot be adequately protected, the U.S. government may have to rethink its longtime strategy of basing undercover officers at foreign embassies such as the American Embassy in Beijing.
Rob Knake, former director of cybersecurity policy issues at the National Security Council, told the Times that the security risks to individual officers identified through these methods could result in “a whole bunch of CIA case officers spending the rest of their careers riding desks.”
UNITED NATIONS (Reuters) - The United Nations Security Council is due to vote on Wednesday on a bid for an international tribunal to prosecute those suspected of downing a passenger airliner last year in Ukraine, but Russia said on Friday it was likely to block the move.
Malaysia last month circulated a draft resolution to form the tribunal. Russia last week proposed a rival text that demands justice for the victims of Malaysia Airlines flight MH17, but does not establish a tribunal.
Flight MH17 was shot down in July 2014 with 298 passengers on board, two-thirds of them Dutch. It crashed in Ukrainian territory held by Russian-backed separatists.
The vote on the proposal by Malaysia, Australia, the Netherlands and Ukraine to create an international tribunal is set for Wednesday afternoon, according to New Zealand, president of the U.N. Security Council for July.
"Malaysia did include some language from our draft in their draft text but it did not go to the core of our concern, they kept insisting on the need to establish right now an international criminal court," Russian U.N. Ambassador Vitaly Churkin told Reuters on Friday.
"This is not a proper thing for the Security Council to do because it's not a case of a threat to international peace and security," Churkin said in a phone interview.
Ukraine and Western countries accuse the rebels in eastern Ukraine of shooting down the plane with a Russian-made missile. But Moscow has rejected accusations it supplied the rebels with SA-11 Buk anti-aircraft missile systems.
Churkin said that while he had not received definitive instructions from Moscow on how to vote on Wednesday, he said: "I have a very strong feeling that it's not going to lead to a result that will be satisfactory for the Security Council."
"We are against it," Churkin said. Russia is a Security Council veto power, along with the United States, Britain, France and China.
Several council diplomats, speaking on condition of anonymity, said they expected Russia to veto the resolution.
Foreign ministers for Malaysia, Australia, the Netherlands, Belgium and Ukraine are expected to attend the planned vote on Wednesday, diplomats said.
Led by the Dutch, those countries are conducting a criminal inquiry in the downing of MH17. Separately, a final report on the cause of the crash is due in October from the Dutch Safety Board.
On July 21, 2014, the Security Council unanimously adopted a resolution that demanded that those responsible "be held to account and that all states cooperate fully with efforts to establish accountability."
(Reporting by Michelle Nichols; Editing by James Dalgleish and Andrew Hay)
NEW YORK (Reuters) - American high school students walk through metal detectors each day. The Metropolitan Opera in New York searches the bags and purses of patrons each night, and air travel involves long lines and security checks.
But the nation's movie theaters are unlikely to introduce such stringent measures anytime soon despite the latest shooting inside a Louisiana multiplex, security experts said on Friday.
Cost, staffing and the turn-off factor to what is supposed to be a fun night out will likely deter movie theater chains from adopting airport-style security, especially at a time when attendance is dropping thanks to the lure of online streaming, YouTube and video on demand.
"Owners do not want the experience at their theater to be a negative one, and going through a metal detector and having their bags checked would become a big inconvenience," said Tom DeLuca, president of New York-based Global Security Services, which has provided armed security personnel to some of the biggest movie chains for 15 years.
"My gut tells me that people would say 'Why am I coming here? It must be dangerous. I don't want to bring my children to this theater, so we'll go somewhere else,'" DeLuca said.
DeLuca's company was fielding calls from movie theater owners on Friday following Thursday's shooting, in which two people were killed and seven wounded when a 59-year-old man opened fire during a screening of comedy "Trainwreck" in Lafayette, Louisiana.
It came three years after 12 people were killed at a cinema in Aurora, Colorado, during a midnight showing of "The Dark Knight Rises." Last year a man annoyed by a texting movie-goer gunned him down inside a Florida movie house.
Movie theater chains barred the wearing of costumes and masks to conceal identity after the Aurora shootings and said they had stepped up security generally.
Southern Theatres, the privately owned theater company that operates the movie theater in Lafayette where Thursday's attack took place, could potentially face legal claims over its security.
A federal lawsuit by more than two dozen Aurora victims or their families is set for trial in July 2016 to hear claims of lax security against theater owner Texas-based Cinemark USA.
DeLuca said movie owners were quickly on the phone on Friday. "We already have had some calls today. They are asking A-Z. One of them is asking for an opinion. Another one is asking whether they should reconsider the metal detectors and bag checks. Ultimately I don't think they will ever get to that," he said.
Major chains like AMC Entertainment Holdings Inc's  AMC Theatres, Regal Entertainment Group's  Regal Cinemas and Cinemark Holdings Inc  did not return requests for comment on their security measures. Southern Theatres on Friday offered thoughts and prayers to the victims in a statement but made no further comment.
On a day when the S&P 500  fell 1 percent, AMC was down 3.6 percent, Regal down 1.5 percent and Cinemark down 1.3 percent.
COST PROHIBITIVE
Movie theaters, often housed in vast multistory buildings with multiple screens, are seen as particularly vulnerable to attack with their many required emergency exits, dark surroundings and scant staffing.
The metal detector issue has been raised in the past. Security specialists recall they were used at some cinema locations for a while after the Sept. 11 attacks on New York and Washington, D.C.
And they were installed in a Long Island, New York, movie house some 30 years ago after a stabbing death there, but they kept movie-goers away.
They are also cost prohibitive to run, said Howard Levinson, a security consultant who worked on the Aurora shooting.
"You need two to four people to run one side and on a busy Saturday night you would need eight people. And you can't use them on a Saturday night but not on a Wednesday afternoon," said Levinson, president of Massachusetts-based Expert Security Consulting.
Cheaper methods would include putting working alarms on all doors, better staff training and tighter emergency procedures to minimize potential casualties and summon help, he said.
"Theaters are struggling to stay alive and make a profit with what's been going on with cable TV and on demand. So they have to make it as nice and as safe as they can for people to come in and spend a few hours," Levinson said.
Movie admissions fell 6 percent to 1.26 billion in 2014, a 19-year low, said Paul Dergarabedian, analyst at film trackers Rentrak. But he said the latest attack is unlikely to deter cinema-goers this weekend.
Despite its association with the Aurora movie shootings, "The Dark Knight Rises" went on to make almost $450 million at the North American box-office and more than $1 billion worldwide.
Out of sight is ultimately out of mind, said Levinson. "A couple of days after (a shooting), if you were to ask people if they'd pay an extra $3 a ticket to be safe in a movie theater, a lot of people would probably say yes, who won't say yes in three months," he said.
(Additional reporting by Piya Sinha-Roy in Los Angeles and Joseph Ax in New York; Editing by Mary Milliken and Lisa Shumaker)
Congolese entrepreneur Ange Bukasa dreamed of owning her own business since she was a young girl growing up in Central Africa, where she witnessed political instability, deadly conflict and rampant poverty. Years later in 2007, Bukasa turned her dream into a reality when she founded ChezAnge Connect, an organization aimed at facilitating African entrepreneurship and investment, out of a need to make a sustainable income and also a desire to help her community.
“You grow up seeing the many, many areas of need,” said Bukasa, now 38. “It clearly drove me to start thinking from the time I was very young that something needs to be done.”
This weekend in Kenya was set to be the first time the annual Global Entrepreneurship Summit -- co-hosted by U.S. President Barack Obama -- would be held in sub-Saharan Africa, where business owners, policymakers, educators and investors would all be brought together in a developing region that has seen immense economic growth in recent years, but still suffers from severe poverty and unemployment. African entrepreneurs and experts said a lack of opportunities on the continent has driven youth to become self-employed, but their success was often hindered by a lack of resources and partnerships -- issues that must be addressed at the summit in order to spur the spirit of entrepreneurship across the entire region.
Proud to be the first American President to visit Kenya. Happy to see family, and to talk with young Kenyans about the future.
&mdash; President Obama (@POTUS) July 24, 2015
Entrepreneurial intent around the world was highest in sub-Saharan Africa, where necessity rather than opportunity led to new business plans, a 2013 poll found. However, less than one in four Africans said they had access to the training and money needed to start or grow a business by themselves, according to another poll. These potential hurdles varied in degree across the continent, ranging from Botswanans in Southern Africa, who were most likely to say they had access to money and training, to respondents in Guinea, West Africa, and in Niger, straddling West and North Africa, which were less likely.
Many sub-Saharan African countries were still largely agricultural, and locals struggling to make ends meet have often turned to agribusiness to increase their income and food security. “Many [entrepreneurs] are on a smaller scale. You see them on street corners, outside your home or in the flea market simply because they want to survive,” Bukasa said in a telephone interview Thursday. “It’s desperation more than anything else, unfortunately.”
Bukasa had prior training and experience in sales and marketing when she started ChezAnge Connect, but she struggled to get investors on board because she was viewed as a rookie business owner. It’s a challenge Bukasa and other African entrepreneurs have continued to face today, even as private-equity fundraising for sub-Saharan Africa hit $4 billion between 2013 and 2014.
“The thing about Africa now is that financiers do not take chances,” Bukasa said. “It’s very difficult for African partners to buy into the idea until they see you up and running.”
Women sold smoked fish at the Dongo market north western region of Democratic Republic of Congo, June 24, 2015. Photo: FEDERICO SCOPPA/AFP/Getty Images
‘Ups And Downs As An Entrepreneur’
Sub-Saharan Africa’s booming youth population was already enormous, but with roughly 10 million to 12 million young people entering the sub-Saharan labor market each year, the threat of sky-high youth unemployment was looming large. Uganda, which has a relatively low unemployment rate for the region, has tried to tackle this issue through increased educational quality, micro-finance loans and increased investment. Other countries such as Nigeria, where there were more than 11 million jobless youth in 2012, have fallen short in implementing effective government initiatives, according to research published by Brookings Institute in Washington, D.C.
Job security was a driving force for Ali-shah Jivraj, a third-generation Ugandan entrepreneur who has built a $15 million business in less than 10 years. As a student, Jivraj said he did whatever he could to make extra pocket money. After finishing high school in 2006, he started a company called Royal Electronics, which assembles and distributes electronics. Jivraj has since expanded into the trade and commodity, manufacturing, property and real estate sectors with four other businesses, all of which fall under his chief company called East Africa Industry. Based in Ugandan capital Kampala, he was named one of Forbes’ “30 Most Promising Young Entrepreneurs in Africa” for 2015.
“You always have your ups and downs as an entrepreneur,” Jivraj said in a telephone interview Thursday. “But I am responsible for my own destiny.”
The 28-year-old said it was difficult starting out as a young entrepreneur in a country where elders traditionally were given more respect, but he has seen that mindset change over the years in Uganda, as well as in other parts of East Africa, including Tanzania.
“As a young person, no one really wants to take you seriously,” he said. “Today, things have changed. People are more open-minded and they do realize that the youth are the future of this country.”
A Kenyan vendor prepared doughnuts at the trading center of the U.S. President Barack Obama's ancestral village of Nyang'oma Kogelo, west of Kenya's capital Nairobi, on July 14, 2015. Obama was visiting Kenya to co-host the Global Entrepreneurship Summit. Photo: REUTERS/Thomas Mukoya
Transforming Talk Into Action
The sixth Global Entrepreneurship Summit in Kenya's capital city of Nairobi kicked off Friday with a forum focused on youth and women entrepreneurs, where participants shared their success stories, took part in skills training, pitched ideas and heard from various leaders in the entrepreneurship space. Among those in attendance was African-American singer Akon, who founded the Akon Light Africa project, an initiative to bring solar power to streets and households across 14 African countries. Obama, whose ancestral heritage is linked to Kenya, has played a major organizing role in the annual summit and urged the importance of strengthening ties between American business leaders and African entrepreneurs as a crucial investment in the region’s development.
“Entrepreneurship empowers people to no longer be subject to aid agencies, but to be part of something to pursue their dreams. Entrepreneurs like you can change the world one idea at a time,” Obama said during a White House event in May, after announcing his scheduled visit to Kenya for the summit as part of his fourth presidential trip to sub-Saharan Africa.
Inspirational speeches aside, Obama also has a responsibility to ensure that any plan of action formed at the conference this weekend makes headway within the next month, according to Raoul Davis, CEO of Ascendant Group Branding, which helps Chinese, African, European and American business leaders increase their visibility in the United States.
“There is a lot of rhetoric around the importance of entrepreneurship and what are the things that are ‘going to happen,’ ” said Davis, who has attended summits at the White House. “Since this is the first [Global Entrepreneurship Summit] in sub-Saharan Africa, my hope would be that rhetoric turns into timelines, milestones and sequencing.”
Dream Big
Bukasa currently lives in Cape Town, South Africa, with her teenage daughter who has been joining her on business trips. Bukasa said she also encourages the 15-year-old, who loves music and singing, to track her songs and to start her own record label one day. As both a single mother and a business owner in Africa, she was hoping her daughter would grow up with the same entrepreneurial spirit and drive that she did.
“I tell her about how more powerful and impactful she could be if she took ownership of what she’s passionate about,” Bukasa said. “I dream of a time when young people are idea owners who come forward and just produce things and impact hundreds of people on the streets or in the town. That’s for me.”
BG Group Plc on Friday confirmed that it has received final unconditional clearance from Brazilian competition authority CADE for its acquisition by bigger rival Royal Dutch Shell.
The clearance of the $70 billion merger follows the 15-day period during which the preliminary approval granted by CADE on 8th July could have been appealed.
Shell is set to become the largest Brazilian offshore foreign operator after it completes the merger with BG, which it announced in April.
The proposed acquisition had previously obtained a green light from United States Federal Trade Commission (FTC) and now only needs pre-conditional approvals from the European Union, Australia and China for the merger to be completed.
A 24-hour strike at Brazil’s state-run energy giant Petrobras has hampered production at one of the company’s 19 offshore oil-and-gas platforms. Output stopped Friday at a platform near Rio de Janeiro after workers refused to pick up their tools, Reuters reported.
Petrobras employees were protesting plans by the oil and gas company to slash investment and liquidate assets to cut its debt. Around 90 percent of the company’s 86,000 workers participated, the National Oil Workers Federation told local media.
The energy firm in late June reported plans to divest itself of assets totaling $15.1 billion in 2015 and 2016. Petrobras said it expected additional restructuring and divestments, and the demobilization of assets totaling $42.6 billion during 2017 and 2018, Oil & Gas Journal noted.
Shares of Petroleo Brasileiro Petrobras SA (NYSE:PBR) tumbled slightly by 3.7 percent Friday to $6.66 a share. 
The Brazilian giant in the last year has been slammed by both the plunge in global oil prices and a devastating corruption scandal. Dozens of former Petrobras executives are accused of colluding with construction companies to inflate government contracts with kickbacks paid to members of the ruling Working Party. The scandal has eroded public trust in the company and caused Brazilian President Dilma Rousseff’s approval ratings to plummet.
The president’s approval ratings fell into the single digits in July, a Tuesday survey found. Just 7.7 percent of respondents rated Rousseff’s performance as “great” or “good,” while nearly 71 percent rated her “bad or terrible,” Brazilian polling firm MDA said.
Petrobras, one of the world’s most heavily indebted oil companies, last month cut forecasts for domestic production to 2.8 million barrels per day of oil equivalent by 2020 -- down from a previous target of 4.2 million barrels per day. The company’s share price has dropped 26 percent over the past year in the wake of low oil prices, corruption concerns and cost overruns.
The output cut on Friday will have a negligible effect on Petrobras’ overall production. The P-15 offshore production platform accounted for one-tenth of 1 percent of Petrobras’ total Brazilian output in May, Reuters said.
Private investors risk losing more than $4 trillion in assets due to the devastating effects of climate change. Rising sea levels, intense flooding and more severe storms threaten to wipe out or diminish portfolios due to property damage, weaker growth and lower asset returns, the Economist Intelligence Unit said in a report Friday.
Assets at stake amount to roughly one-fourth of U.S. gross domestic product. The number could swell to nearly $14 trillion if the Earth’s temperatures warm by a staggering 6 degrees Celsius (10.8 degrees Fahrenheit) compared to the pre-industrial era. From the public-sector perspective, extreme warming represents value losses of $43 trillion, or 30 percent of the entire stock of the world’s manageable assets, the report said.
“Institutional investors need to assess their climate-related risks and take steps to mitigate them; very few have begun to do this,” the report said.
Climate scientists say the world is on track to warm by at least 2 degrees Celsius (3.2 degrees Fahrenheit) by 2050 if countries don’t take dramatic steps to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from power plants, tailpipes and buildings. Even lesser degrees of warming will have dire consequences for the world’s food supplies, coastal communities and human health.
The report arrives as leaders from nearly 200 nations are preparing for high-stakes climate change talks in Paris this December. Governments have agreed to forge a pact to slash their greenhouse gas emissions and help poorer nations adapt to climate impacts. But the emissions targets announced by countries so far suggest the treaty won’t be strong enough to make a meaningful dent in climate emissions.
“Investors currently face a stark choice,” said the report's editor, Brian Gardner, said in a statement.
Investors in fossil-fuel companies may see the value of their holdings decline if governments adopt strict limits on carbon dioxide emissions. But absent such regulations, investors could face “substantial losses across the entire portfolio of manageable assets” if little is done to limit global warming, Gardner said.
“Charting a path away from these two options should be a strong motivation for long-term investors to engage with companies in their portfolios and to shift investments towards a profitable, low-carbon future,” he said.
Hillary Clinton is set to propose a tax hike on investors that her campaign camp says will encourage companies and investors to think more long-term about opportunities for economic growth. In a speech Friday afternoon at the New York University Stern School of Business, the presidential candidate is expected to lay out a proposal for taxing short-term investments more heavily, and, in turn, create incentive for longer term investments that might benefit worker productivity, job prospects, and wages.
Economists have begun to highlight the role that corporate buybacks of large chunks of a company's own stock play in fueling "short-termism" of hedge funds and activist investors. Sen. Bernie Sanders of Vermont -- who is challenging Clinton for the 2016 Democratic presidential nomination -- addressed stock repurchasing programs in an editorial last month in the Boston Globe, and Clinton brought up the subject in a speech last week.
Earlier this week, Deutsche Bank global equity strategist Binky Chadha issued a research note to investors in which he concluded that the steady rise of U.S. stocks in the last six years is largely due to corporations repurchasing their own stock.
Stock buybacks are a way for corporations to reward investors because they provide an immediate boost to share values. But detractors point out that the repurchases often come at the expense of corporate investments that benefit the broader economy, such as in new hires and business expansion.
Although companies have engaged in stock buybacks since the 1980s, this is the first presidential campaign in which the topic has come to the fore, said William Lazonick, an economics professor at the University of Massachusetts, Lowell.
Lazonick would know. He's a leading expert on the relationship between buybacks, worker productivity, and the development of a thriving middle class. Last year, he wrote a seminal, prize-winning paper in Harvard Business Review, "Profits Without Prosperity," that sparked a lot of buzz around a topic that's largely remained under the radar for decades.
A major critic of buybacks, Lazonick would welcome reforms to a practice that he says manipulates the stock market, and starves companies and employees of important investments in training and education. But he just doesn't think that changing the tax code to encourage longer-term holdings is the way to do it.
"It's making a pretense of addressing the problem. The accountants, and everyone else will still find ways around it," he said. "It's not going to solve the problem of keeping money in companies."
Lazonick would rather see policymakers aim squarely at Securities and Exchange Commission regulations that allow corporations to buy large quantities of their own stock in the first place. In that sense, he said, the solution is easy: "Call it manipulation, and tell companies they can't do it."

Some finance experts question whether a higher tax on short-term investments would help sharpen corporate America’s focus on the long term. Anant Sundaram, a finance professor at Dartmouth College’s Tuck School of Business, says the policy could have unintended consequences for investors large and small. “The one downside of lengthening the holding period could be to significantly disadvantage capital-raising in the high-growth, venture capital type areas of the economy,” Sundaram notes. More than a few years would be "a long time to expect someone to hold on to even an Uber or an Airbnb, let alone smaller startups," he says.
Mom and pop investors could suffer too. Especially “for those who are trying to achieve appropriate asset allocation in their personal portfolios as they get older, and their holding period start to shrink. They could face much higher tax bills,” he says.
U.S. stocks headed toward a weekly loss Friday as they followed world markets into the red. Meanwhile, global commodity prices continued their downward spiral. With no clear trend emerging from U.S. corporate earnings results and disappointing U.S. home sales data released Friday, all three U.S. markets were down in midday trading.
“What we’re seeing right now in this earnings season is a mixed bag,” said Adam Sarhan, CEO of Sarhan Capital, an investment and advisory firm. “Companies are beating estimates but those estimates have been ratcheted down for several months.”
Energy and basic material stocks were leading the sell-offs Friday, while tech and telecom shares were showing gains by midday. Amazon.com Inc. (Nasdaq:AMZN) shares continued their rally after the online seller and cloud-storage services provider reported a surprise quarterly profit. The company's stock gained more than 15 percent to $556.45 by midday.
The Dow Jones Industrial Average (INDEXDJX:.DJI) dropped 71.82 points, or 0.41 percent, to 17,660.10. The Standard & Poor's 500 index (INDEXSP:.INX) dipped 7.40 points, or 0.35 percent, to 2,094.84. And the Nasdaq composite (INDEXNASDAQ:.IXIC) lost 2.98 points, or 0.06 percent, to 5,142.93.
European and Asian stocks closed in the red Friday after a sell-off in global commodities that could indicate a major global slowdown is underway. Copper prices fell to their lowest level since 2009 and mining stocks retreated after Anglo American plc (LON:AAL), a leading mining company, reported a 36 percent drop in earnings and said it was slashing 6,000 jobs. Anglo American CEO Mark Cutifani said volatility and global economic uncertainly would continue to impact global mining, a signal of an economic slowdown in construction and other key industrial activities.
“Except for cocoa and cattle, all commodity prices are down. Demand remains very weak and that doesn’t bode well for the global economy,” said Sarhan. “We have lackluster growth across the global economy with central banks either printing money or offering easy money.”
The U.S. Commerce Department said Friday that new home sales dropped to their lowest level in seven months while May sales were revised lower, indicating a setback in housing market recovery. New home sales dropped 6.8 percent to a seasonally adjusted annualized rate of 482,000. May sales were revised from 546,000 to 517,000.
On the upside, preliminary monthly data from Markit Economics about business purchases ticked up to 53.8 in July, from a 20-month-low in June of 53.6. Readings above 50 indicate growth. A strong dollar was putting pressure on U.S. exports, according to the respondents to the monthly survey.
The U.S. dollar strengthened against key Asian-Pacific currencies hit by the commodities row and China’s announcement on Friday it would allow the yuan to fluctuate more freely in an effort to weaken it to boost exports. A weaker yuan would gut exports from other Asian emerging markets. Australia’s dollar is being hit by weak demand for its core mining exports.
Since Thursday, four major U.S. air carriers have reported lower than expected revenue for their second quarters. Airline stocks dipped, as American Airlines Group Inc (Nasdaq:AAL) shares fell 2.06 percent to $41.76 while Spirit Airlines Incorporated (Nasdaq:SAVE) stock dropped 1.89 percent to $60.21 following the carriers release of their quarterly earnings statements before markets opened on Friday.
United Continental Holdings Inc (NYSE:UAL) stock was recovering from Thursday’s sell-off after the airline reported a miss on revenue in its second quarter. United’s stock recovered from Thursday’s decline, gaining 2.15 percent to $57.89 on Friday morning.
Southwest Airlines Co. (NYSE:LUV) shares were down 1.04 percent to $36.11 after shedding nearly 3 percent on Thursday. Southwest’s price was still above its Wednesday close as investors saw only a slight revenue miss and viewed the airline's plans to expand to 50 international destinations as good news for the budget carrier.
The road to economic growth is paved with austerity’s stunted victims: As representatives of the EU, European Central Bank and International Monetary Fund -- known as the Troika -- book their flights to Athens for talks on a third bailout, Greece’s body politic is looking distinctly shrunken.
The debt crisis is taking its toll -- not only on Greek bank accounts but on Greek minds. Suicide rates have jumped by more than a third, a quarter of adults are unemployed and 40 percent of children are living in poverty. It’s not only vintage clothing stores that have made a return in Athens: In the last seven years, Greece’s economic collapse has pushed back living standards for the poor to 1980.
Life for the rich is little better. Their incomes, when income tax and inflation are taken into account, have returned to Madonna’s heyday of 1985.
African migrants, attempted to reach Europe, travel in a boat after they were detained by the Libyan coast guard in Garbouli, June 5, 2014. Photo: Reuters/Hani Amara
But that’s not all. Greece’s newest problem is the record number of migrants, especially Syrian refugees, who are arriving daily by boat, in a country that can ill afford to keep them. Civil society is suffering. Nonprofits are running out of money to help those in need.
More than 800,000 Greeks have been cut off from medical access due to poverty or lack of insurance. Anastasios Yfantis, a social worker at a Médecins du Monde (Doctors of the World) hospital in central Athens, said in an interview with the Financial Times, “We started seeing more and more kids here without really basic vaccinations, for things like hepatitis.” The government had run out of supplies and was asking people to pay for these services. “But people can’t pay,” Yfantis said.  
Charities are paying the price for years of austerity. Cuts to healthcare, homeless shelters and mental health providers have been smoothed over by the charitable sector, but major cracks are starting to show.
14 charities you can support to help Greece's vulnerable populations: http://t.co/KoirgCk22M pic.twitter.com/94CBOebjrl
— Mashable (@mashable) July 17, 2015
 
Praksis, a nongovernmental organization that offers social and medical services to vulnerable populations in Greece, focused on health when it was founded 11 years ago, but due to the financial crisis has expanded its care to include shelter, vaccines and medicine, legal and psychological services for the 80,000 people it serves each year.
"If this situation we're in now is not getting stabilized, we will have to face a complete collapse of the health system in Greece,” Marie Halaka, Praksis fundraising director, told Mashable.
Nikitas Kanakis, president of Greece’s branch of Médecins du Monde, agrees.
The burden of care is proving too much. 
“In the next weeks, we will have a problem. And we can’t prepare, because we don’t actually know what will be the result of the negotiations.”  
Most donations have stopped due to bank closures. The elderly are especially vulnerable to cuts, with slashed pensions and fewer family members to support them. But the youngest members of Greek society are also at risk.
The president of Greece's largest children's charity told Sky News that his organization is running out of money because of the economic crisis.
Kostas Giannopoulous, who runs the children’s charity Smile Of The Child, said refuge homes in Athens might be forced to close within months because people and companies can no longer afford to give money to charities.
Riot police run as they disperse protesters during clashes in Athens, Greece, on July 15, 2015. Greek anti-establishment protesters threw dozens of firebombs at police in front of parliament on Wednesday ahead of a key vote on a bailout deal, in some of the most serious violence in more than two years. Police responded with tear gas, sending hundreds of people fleeing in central Syntagma Square.  Photo: Reuters/Yannis Behrakis
Smile Of The Child looks after 350 children full time, many of whom have been abandoned by their parents. Giannopoulous wants to do all he can to stop them from being abandoned a second time.  
"I would never dare to think we would do that. So that's why we try very hard to persuade people, and Greeks from overseas (to donate)," he told Sky.
As the Greek government plans to welcome the Troika back, Giannopoulous, along with thousands of others, are fighting to keep civil society alive.
As the suits in Brussels loosen their ties, the people of Athens are tightening their belts.
On the Kalamazoo River this weekend, Michigan residents will kayak down the sparkling waters and cast their lines for smallmouth bass. The relaxing summer day will bear little resemblance to July 25, 2010, when a ruptured pipeline spewed a million gallons of crude oil into a nearby creek.
Five years and billions of cleanup dollars after the worst inland oil spill in U.S. history, the river is largely revitalized. Resuscitated wetlands hug the river, while three new boat launches and man-made rapids draw paddlers, fishers and weekenders.
“We’re looking forward to promoting it as a destination, instead of it being a liability,” said Brad Wurfel, a spokesman for the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality, the agency leading the spill response for the state. “We’re proud of the cleanup effort here.”
Yet for many residents in southern Michigan, it feels like the spill never ended. Some say they worry the beautiful landscape belies the danger of chemicals and crude oil still lurking in the water. For others, the anniversary dredges up painful reminders of the day they were evacuated and their lives upended by the stench of oil and the noise of cleanup crews.
“It’s been a very traumatic time,” said Michelle Barlond-Smith, who lived in Battle Creek during the spill and moved away due to the disturbance. “It was horrendous. It was just a solid river covered in oil.”
Workers in 2011 clean submerged oil in Morrow Lake, on the Kalamazoo River, following the worst inland oil spill in U.S. history. Photo: U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
The 2010 accident was disastrous not only because of how much oil spilled but also because of the type of crude running through Enbridge Inc.’s pipeline. Diluted bitumen, a particularly toxic crude from the Canadian oil sands region, is so thick and tarry that it must be thinned with volatile chemicals before it can flow through pipelines. Even then, the oil is too dense to float in the water, like conventional oil does when spilled. Instead, diluted bitumen sinks to the bottom, making it harder for workers to remove and retrieve.
“The Kalamazoo River still isn’t clean,” Anthony Swift, who directs the Natural Resources Defense Council’s Canada Project, told OnEarth magazine. “The EPA reached a point where additional cleanup might do more harm than good. Much of the river is still contaminated.”
Canadian crude oil spilled into the river for 17 hours before Enbridge workers could shut down the line. The Canadian energy giant has so far spent $1.2 billion to clean the 40-mile spill, an effort that wrapped up in late 2014. Enbridge and Michigan’s environmental agency will continue monitoring the river long-term for oil sheens, submerged oil and contaminated sediment, said Jason Manshum, an Enbridge spokesman.
The pipeline spill “was one of the bleakest and most humbling chapters in our company’s 65-year history,” he said by email. “We are pleased to have returned the Kalamazoo River to health, productivity and benefit to people and nature.”
Enbridge has paid nearly $90 million in fines so far for the spill, including settlements with state and federal agencies and Michigan landowners. The company also spent about $3 billion to build a 285-mile replacement pipeline, called Line 6B, which runs from Indiana, through southern Michigan to refineries in Ontario, Canada.
The firm’s bills may still be piling up. The EPA is considering imposing on Enbridge a multimillion-dollar for violating the Clean Water Act. The agency has until Friday -- five years after the violation occurred -- to levy the penalty, although the deadline may be extended.
An Enbridge spokeswoman said Thursday discussions on the penalty “are ongoing” between the company, the EPA and the U.S. Department of Justice.
Under the Clean Water Act, the EPA can impose fines of as much as $1,100 for each barrel of spilled oil. If the agency finds the spill resulted from negligence, the agency can impose a maximum penalty of $4,300 a barrel.
But questions remain over exactly how much oil spilled from the pipeline. The EPA has estimated that up to 1.1 million gallons (nearly 26,200 barrels) spilled in Michigan, while Enbridge and Michigan environmental officials put the figure at about 843,000 gallons (about 20,000 barrels).
By comparison, in the BP oil spill disaster, which happened just three months before the Michigan accident, more than 200 million gallons of crude pumped into the Gulf of Mexico.
Federal officials have still not determined whether Enbridge acted negligently when it operated the pipeline. Internal reports confirmed the pipeline had hundreds of corrosion defects in the years before the spill that Enbridge was attempting to repair. If the EPA rules negligence, and uses the higher oil-spill estimate, Enbridge could face fines of up to $112 million.
Barlond-Smith, the former Battle Creek resident, said she’s spending Friday on the Kalamazoo River with a group of local activists and residents. Their walk will begin in Marshall, the town closest to the spill, at a farm that was bought by Enbridge after the disaster.
“I want to be reflective of what has happened, but I also want to try and bring back some life into my city,” she said. “There’s a point in time where you have to mourn a loss, but then you also have to realize you’re still here. It doesn’t mean we’ll forget.”
EATONVILLE, Wash. – Like a proud father, Gregory Ettl loves to show off the soaring trees in western Washington's Pack Forest. His camouflage truck rattles down dirt roads to a succession of forested patches, and he jumps out every 10 minutes or so to gesture at plots of trees planted roughly five, 15 and 35 years ago. 
Ettl , who manages 4,300 acres of land at the foot of Mount Rainier as director of the Center for Sustainable Forestry at University of Washington, is demonstrating the rapid growth of these tracts, which are destined to someday be leveled by loggers. It's difficult to tell what makes Ettl more proud -- the stupendous growth of these impressive specimens, or the fact that their eventual removal is part of a "working forest" that earns money for his department and the university. 
But despite this natural wealth, forestry in western Washington and throughout the country has long been hindered by narrowing profit margins and a shortage of loggers and mills capable of turning these trees into revenue-producing products.
At least Ettl doesn't have to worry about product consistency or quality, like managers in many industries. Steady rains practically guarantee that this region will produce millions of dollars of timber suitable for market. The dominant species in this area of southwest Washington is Douglas fir, which fits many buyers' definition of the perfect tree. The trees grow remarkably fast. Their wood is stiff, hard and dense. Their trunks are impossibly straight with very few branches, saving loggers the hassle of yanking them off.
“The really great thing about Douglas fir is it’s genetically predisposed to make tall trees that produce high quality wood,” Ettl says. “It’s an awesome timber species.”
These 200-year-old Douglas fir trees live in an old-growth patch at the heart of Pack Forest that is protected from logging and connected by the "Trail of Giants."  Photo: Amy Nordrum
Fortunately for Ettl, an industry turnaround could be on the horizon. A growing number of architects and designers predict that very soon, Americans will see a new breed of wooden high-rise buildings take shape that could shore up the struggling forestry industry in states such as Washington. Though detractors see tall wooden buildings as idealistic and regressive -- dangerous, even -- major architectural firms and government agencies are widely touting them for their ability to generate jobs in rural areas and improve the sustainability of cities and towns. 
Earlier this year, the leading global authority on construction policies took a major step by updating the International Building Code to permit tall wooden buildings to take root around the world. Advocates say it’s only a matter of time before the U.S.’ first wooden high-rise is erected. In fact, the U.S. Department of Agriculture will announce the champion of a nationwide design contest by the end of the year. The government will award the winner with $2 million to build a wooden building over 80 feet in height--the equivalent of about six stories.
Why all the hubbub over a building material that was so long ago replaced by steel and concrete? In one concept, a 42-story wooden residential building reduced the carbon footprint by 60 percent to 75 percent from a concrete building of the same size. At the USDA, tall wooden buildings have become just one part of Secretary of Agriculture Tom Vilsack’s overall strategy to promote sustainable forestry management and reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
Despite this enthusiasm, the winning USDA idea will be far from shovel-ready. Wood proponents need to convince developers -- the ones who foot the bill for new construction -- of the merits of tall wooden buildings. The steel and concrete industries haven't made that task any easier. They have spoken out against the trend, warning that wooden high-rises are unsafe due to the risk of fires and make poor sense as a long-term investment. 
“I look at some of these buildings and I don't want my daughter living on the fourth floor of one of these wood frame buildings that's 85 feet off the ground,” Larry Williams, executive director of the Steel Framing Industry Association, says. “I just wouldn't feel safe about it.” 
Rich In Wood
The U.S. has some of the most highly productive forests in the world. They already generate $200 billion in wood product sales each year and employ a million Americans, according to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. 
Here in the Evergreen State, it’s easy to imagine how much more timber these forests might produce. Ettl says a tree can grow two to three times as quickly here as on the eastern side of the state thanks to a steady drizzle that soaks young stands in 40 inches to 60 inches of rain a year. That means loggers can harvest two to four times as much timber per acre and landowners can clear cut their trees every 30 years to 50 years instead of waiting 70 years to 100 years. He stops the pickup and gestures toward a cleared hillside in an otherwise dense forest where only a handful of trees remain -- this patch earned $835,000 in a 2007 sale. 
This area of Pack Forest was harvested in 2007 and sold for $835,000. Some trees were left behind in keeping with sustainable forestry management techniques. The following year, the forest only earned $50,000 in timber sales due to the recession.  Photo: Amy Nordrum
The daunting reality that landowners and managers such as Ettl face is that the price of timber in the U.S. has barely kept pace with inflation since the 1980s. Private landowners in Washington have ended up sending much of their timber to Korea, Japan and China where they can sell their highest- and lowest-grade wood at a higher price. However, the U.S. housing crisis combined with economic stagnation in Japan and China's slowdown have recently taken a toll on the timber industry, even in this state. Some American loggers also say a longstanding trade agreement struck with Canada, where the logging industry is heavily subsidized, has further caused domestic timber production to stutter. 
Nationwide, less than 2 percent of U.S. trees were harvested each year for the past 50 years. The volume of timber produced in western Washington dropped by 43 percent between 1990 and 2002. Timber harvests in Washington and Oregon, the nation's two largest timber-producing states, have dropped since the 1980s among all landowners, as shown in these charts provided by the Pacific Northwest Research Station of the U.S. Forest Service.
                   Timber production in Washington has steadily dropped.  Photo: U.S. Forest Service/Pacific Northwest Research Station
                  The state of Oregon has also seen a significant cut in timber production.  Photo: U.S. Forest Service/Pacific Northwest Research Station
These conditions have piqued the interest of foresters and the federal government in the tall wooden building movement. Ettl and others think that if tall wooden buildings can create new demand for U.S. timber, this trend will raise prices and encourage landowners to remain in the business of forestry.  
The invention of a new material called cross-laminated timber (CLT) was perhaps the most important catalyst to date for broader acceptance of building wooden high-rises. CLT is a composite, similar to plywood, that is manufactured by gluing together three to nine pieces of wood so that the grains in each line up in opposite directions, giving the board extra strength. Since it is made from small pieces of timber, landowers could sell their least desirable parts of a tree -- the tops or the branches, for example -- to a CLT mill, where these scraps would be converted into a high-value finished product. 
"The advantage is we can use all kinds of wood and put it in different layers. We can use different species, too," Indroneil Ganguly, an expert in forestry products at University of Washington, says. "It actually creates a new market for wood because we're thinking of replacing some of the steel and concrete." 
This is a sample of cross-laminated timber, a new building material in which three to nine layers of wood are glued together in opposite directions to provide strength.  Photo: Oregon Department of Forestry
CLT was first developed in Austria in the 1990s and is already being used in new construction in Europe. One firm is on track to finish Treet, a 14-story luxury wooden apartment building in Bergen, Norway, by yearend. Another has pledged to complete a 24-story wooden hotel and apartment complex in Vienna next year, which will become the tallest wooden building in the world.
Proving a Concept
Advocates say CLT could easily be used in buildings as tall as 30 stories to 40 stories, structures that are normally made of steel and concrete. Seattle Business Magazine reports that 77 percent of buildings in the U.S. are fewer than 12 stories tall and could potentially incorporate CLT. Analysts estimate sales of the new material in the U.S. could eventually reach $4 billion. 
But CLT is still a relative newcomer to an industry where it often takes years for innovative construction methods to catch on. There is only one plant that currently produces it in the U.S. Ettl thinks western Washington would be a prime location for a CLT plant because of the prevalence of Douglas fir, which is an ideal candidate because of its strength. 
“Most of us in forestry related fields would love to see a CLT mill here,” he says. “There just hasn’t been the political will to move it forward here, yet.“
Gregory Ettl, director of the Center for Sustainable Forestry at Pack Forest for the University of Washington, oversees the management of 4,300 acres at the base of Mount Rainier.  Photo: Amy Nordrum
That will has begun to surface among politicians, architects and foresters in the surrounding area, though. Earlier this month, the U.S. Economic Development Administration announced a partnership with state leaders in Washington and Oregon to develop CLT manufacturing capabilities in both states. Right now, DR Johnson Lumber Co. and Oregon State University are building a prototype CLT manufacturing plant nearby in Oregon. The only existing U.S. CLT plant is in Columbia Falls, Montana. It is owned by Smartlam Technologies and started running last year with the help of a USDA grant. The operators hope to receive approval by the American Plywood Association for the plant’s first products later this year. In 2012, Seattle updated its building code to permit CLT in new construction. 
But American developers have been shy to take a chance on CLT until the material is more widely tested. In 2013, a group at at Skidmore, Owings and Merrill determined that a 42-story wooden building was feasible from a structural engineering and architectural point of view through their Timber Tower Research Project, but called for further testing for fire safety and structural integrity.
The interior of the Wood Innovation and Design Center in Price George, British Columbia, incorporates cross-laminated timber floor panels.  Photo: Ema Peter
“At the end of the day, it only works if these buildings are equally safe to steel and concrete, which they can be and must be,” says Michael Green, a Vancouver-based architect who authored a book on the feasibility of tall wooden buildings in 2012 and has been a vocal supporter of the idea ever since.
Benton Johnson, an architect at SOM, believes a hybrid approach in which builders install a steel frame with timber floors or walls might make the most sense for the nation’s first tall wooden buildings. He points to the Bullitt Center in Seattle as one example of this method. However, Johnson is also confident that the age of wooden buildings has indeed arrived. 
“You see a lot of different organizations that are coming to conclusions about sustainability and feasibility of this,” he says. “When you have that sort of consensus forming, you start to think it really is the real deal.”

This year, the International Code Council, an organization that sets global guidelines for construction materials, included a new chapter on CLT in its reference manual and permitted its use in buildings up to seven stories high. The publishers of the national manual for wood construction took similar steps and the Council on Tall Buildings and Urban Habitat, a leading authority on skyscrapers, is hosting a working group on tall wooden buildings.
“Three years ago, I'd say there was huge skepticism,” Green says. “Today, I'd say there's huge optimism and a feeling by many that if they don't get in line, they'll be left behind.”
The wood harvested from Washington's forests is currently sold to lumber and pulp mills, but could also be used in a new construction material called cross-laminated timber. Advocates say finding another use for this wood could raise demand and prices, and in turn inspire more landowners to set aside acreage for sustainable forests rather than pursue development.  Photo: Amy Nordrum
Pushback From Traditional Builders 
One sign that Green is correct is that the concrete and steel industries are worried. In April, representatives of the cement industry lobbied the International Code Council to oppose the use of CLT in tall wooden buildings, citing fire safety concerns. 
“We've got a great product,” Williams of the Steel Framing Industry Association says. “For us, it's been a good reminder that we have to tell people that we have a good product and that it’s superior to something like wood in so many ways.”  
Opponents vehemently argue that the propensity of wood to burn is a glaring problem, and renders tall wooden buildings unsafe.
"Now in some provinces in Canada, you can build a six-story wood frame building and do it within the building codes," Williams says. "I think it's rather ironic that the first six-story timber frame building that was permitted under the new building code burned to the ground."
Indeed, it did. And in another ancedote popular with skeptics, a test facility once burned to the ground the night after a fire test was conducted on a similar structure in the U.K. 
Carl Baldassarra is a fire protection engineer with an Illinois-based firm called Wiss, Janney Elstner Associates Inc. and has worked alongside architects to evaluate the fire risk for tall wooden buildings. He says that CLT inevitably increases the fire load for a building but believes that risk can be effectively controlled. “Overall I think the fire safety challenges can be dealt with,” he says. “Some people are dead set against this based on the concept. I'm a fire protection engineer and these are the kinds of things that get me excited about the challenges.”
His team has found ways to electronically monitor sprinkler valves and the building's water supply to ensure that the sprinkler system works properly at all times. They have also explored making boards and beams extra-thick so that they burn more slowly in a fire, or coating them in the fire-resistant mineral called gypsum. Still, Baldassarra says there are other issues that must be addressed. 
“There's still a concern about the ultimate stability of the building in a major fire,” he says. “If you have a very tall building, you have more people at risk and more property at risk and possible damage to adjacent buildings.”
Washington state has some of the most highly productive forests in the world. A Doulgas fir tree can grow two to three times as fast here as in the eastern half of the state, thanks to generous precipitation.  Photo: Amy Nordrum
Despite the challenges, supporters of tall wooden buildings say the idea is only just beginning to pick up steam. They counter the concerns of steel and concrete manufacturers by saying the advantages of wood are just as clear from a construction standpoint. CLT is expected to be comparable in price to both steel and concrete, and can be installed faster. It’s much lighter and can reduce the weight of a building by 60 to 70 percent, which may be helpful in seismic zones such as Seattle because a wooden building can more easily absorb the impact of sudden shifts. Some architects are also heartened by the opportunity to incorporate its warmth and natural feel into their designs.
Now that the idea has cleared the first set of major hurdles at architectural firms, governments and in the world’s leading building council, advocates aren’t likely to be dissuaded by any of the remaining obstacles. Green, who has been speaking about this idea for at least the past five years, says patience is key. 
“When steel construction and concrete came about and we moved from wrought iron to steel, it took us a couple decades to streamline it before we built the Empire State Building,” he says. “Wood is going through that same process.”
To get an idea of how unsafe limousines are, just visualize the instant a Dodge pickup truck plowed into the side of the stretched Lincoln Town Car hired by eight women on Long Island, New York, last Sunday. As the front of the truck broadsided the limo, the passengers sitting on a couch along the left side of the vehicle were flung across the cabin into crumpling steel and shattering glass.
Three of the women, who had been celebrating an upcoming wedding, were killed almost instantly and another died later at the hospital. Six other people, including both drivers, suffered injuries.
The severity of the July 18 accident highlights a regulatory gray area in auto safety. What might have saved the lives of Lauren Baruch, 24, Stephanie Belli, 23, Amy Grabina, 23, and Brittany Schulman, 23, is something that has saved thousands of lives over the years: rules that require cars, trucks and SUVs in the U.S. to have lap and torso seat belts and head-protecting side-curtain airbags.
But in an odd quirk of U.S. automotive safety rules, party limos and buses are exempt from some occupant-protection rules if they have fewer than eight forward-facing seats.
“This is an issue with these party limousines,” said Byron Bloch, an auto safety expert with four decades of experience inspecting accident vehicles and testifying in car crash cases. “If these were regular cars or SUVs you wouldn’t be able to legally sell the vehicles in the U.S.”
A ‘Perimeter-Seating’ Loophole
In 2013, makers of so-called motor coaches -- limousines, entertainment buses and shuttle vans -- convinced the U.S. National Highway Traffic Safety Administration to exempt vehicles with “perimeter seating” -- seats that point inward -- or with fewer than eight forward-facing seats from new rules aimed at bolstering “commercial bus safety.”
The exemption is aimed at allowing makers of airport shuttles and other buses that carry multiple wheelchair positions to forego certain common safety features. But as a result, limousine makers -- which purchase vehicles like Lincolns, cut them in half, elongate them, and alter the interiors to accommodate a more luxurious and spacious atmosphere -- can avoid the cost of adding extra safety belts and air bags to the vehicles. Larger party buses, essentially rolling nightclubs, are also exempt under the guidelines.
This is an image of the Volvo XC90’s air bag locations. Side curtain airbags are located along the top rail on both sides of this and other vehicles, designed to avert head injuries in side collisions. Photo: Volvo Car Corporation
Thanks to the length of the stretch limos, nearly one in four accidents involving them are side collisions, according to Lancer Insurance, a leading limo insurer. This makes the lack of side curtain air bags and seatbelts more worrisome.
States could implement their own rules requiring that party limos and buses have seat belts for every seating position, but so far this federal occupant safety exemption is in effect nationwide.
'It's A Contradiction'
Auto safety experts say the exemption is insane.
“These limos are moving bars and rec rooms,” said Bloch. “People are encouraged to stand up, mix and mingle. Their marketing allure is 'continue your party in our limo.' Even if there are seat belts for everyone, promoters of these party bus and limo services are saying it’s safer than driving drunk. But they’re also encouraging you to get up and move around in the cabin. It’s a contradiction.”
Long, heavy and cumbersome to maneuver, a stretch party limo is last type of car you want to be in during an accident -- you could wind up with your head in a television set covered with broken champagne flutes. Last year, the British car program “Fifth Gear” showed the remains of three crash-test dummies after a front-end collision and it wasn’t pretty.

Clarence Ditlow, head of the Center for Auto Safety, a Washington, D.C.-based nonprofit, says for years his group has tried to ring alarm bells over limousine safety. In 2013, five nurses in California burned to death in a limousine fire because they were trapped inside, unable to reach the doors at the back-end of the vehicle with only an opening in the partition that separates the driver from the party.
Ditlow says federal regulators aren’t doing enough to ascertain the general safety of limousines.
“It’s been our long-stated position that the National Transportation Safety Board has been absolutely remiss in tracking limousine accidents,” said Ditlow. “There’s a whole issue about what safety standards should apply to these vehicles.”
The National Limousine Association trade group declined to comment on Sunday’s accident or what its stance is on the seat belt and air bag exemption, but issued the following statement: “The National Limousine Association has long prided itself on having the highest standards of safety, professional training and an unparalleled commitment to take care of our customers”
Anthem Inc said on Friday it would buy Cigna Corp in a deal valued at $54.2 billion, creating the largest U.S. health insurer.
Cigna shareholders will get $103.40 per share in cash and 0.5152 Anthem shares.
The deal comes three weeks after Aetna Inc struck a deal to buy Humana Inc for $37 billion and is part of an industry-wide consolidation of the health insurance industry following the roll-out of the Obama government's healthcare reform law.
Malaysia Airlines Flight MH370, which went missing on March 8, 2014, with 239 people on board, “will be found in the next year,” Martin Dolan, chief commissioner of the Australian Transport Safety Bureau (ATSB) said Thursday. An unprecedented international search for the plane has crossed 500 days but has so far yielded no concrete clues as to the whereabouts of the jet.
Two vessels, Fugro Discovery and Fugro Equator, are currently conducting search operations in the southern Indian Ocean, Joint Agency Coordination Centre, which is supervising the search out of Australia, said in its latest update this week. Over 21,000 square miles of the 46,332 square miles of search area has been scoured.
"Once we started looking and defining the search area, it became quite clear it could take up to two years,” Dolan said, according to U.K.’s Daily Express. "We still remain confident it will be found in the next year.
"All the analysis we have puts the aircraft somewhere in that large search area. We have no more information that would allow us to calculate a different area and governments accept that," Dolan reportedly added.
Since the plane’s disappearance, several theories have emerged with some experts questioning the location of the current search. However, Dolan reportedly rejected the theories.
“All the information we have puts the aircraft in this defined search area. The crews and equipment being used are excellent and the data we're receiving is of a quality beyond the specifications yet,” Dolan reportedly said. "If we have to search the entire area, it will be completed this time next year but we expect to find the aircraft before then."
Last month, industry experts criticized Australia’s decision of choosing Fugro NV for the search operation, claiming that the company’s search methods were ineffective, and that it was using the wrong technology and inexperienced personnel. However, ATSB refuted the assertions and defended its handling of the search for Flight MH370.
“These attacks are unfounded and unfair,” Dolan said in a statement, at the time. “The search for MH370 represents thousands of hours of work by hundreds of people who are dedicated, expert and professional. They are fully committed to finding the aircraft.”
The search operation, which is being headed by Australia, has become the costliest in aviation history.
Starbucks reported a surge of 7 percent in quarterly sales on Thursday. New, popular menu items and a digital initiative contributed to the rise in profits, the Wall Street Journal reported.
Global same-store sales grew seven percent this quarter, which ended June 28, and was driven by a 4 percent increase in customer visits. For the Americas division, same-store sales jumped 8 percent and total net profit in the period for the company grew 22 percent. Revenue for the quarter grew 17.9 percent to $4.9 billion, and Howard D. Schultz, Starbucks’ chief company executive, said there were 23 million new transactions, the New York Times reported.    
“The past quarter stands among the strongest, most remarkable of quarters in the 23-year history of Starbucks as a publicly traded company,” Kevin Johnson, president of Starbucks, said in a phone interview, the New York Times reported.
The coffeehouse giant introduced several new items to its menu this quarter that were popular with Starbucks customers. The Flat White, a trendy espresso beverage made with two risotto shots and a thin layer of steamed milk, appeared on the menu in January and was an instant hit with coffee addicts. Starbucks also added bistro boxes, snacks, iced tea drinks and Frappuccinos to encourage people to come in more for afternoon and evening visits.  
More customers were taking advantage of Starbucks’ loyalty program as well; Schultz said that the number of users in the loyalty program in the U.S. grew 28 percent from a year ago to 10.4 million, the Wall Street Journal reported. Transactions in the U.S. made using mobile devices also grew to 20 percent, up from 9 percent two years ago. 
 
20 percent of all money paid to Starbucks in the United States in the second quarter came in through its mobile app. http://t.co/eMXMq6KxYb
&mdash; NYT Business (@nytimesbusiness) July 23, 2015
 
 
Scott Maw, chief financial officer of Starbucks, said that the acquisition of Starbucks Japan increased revenue this quarter by more than $300 million. 
Starbucks said that they expect to full-year revenue growth to be on the lower end of the 16 to 18 percent range and for global same-store sales for the year to be in the mid-single digits.
Last March, Sandra Bland announced to the virtual world that she was depressed. She posted a video on her Facebook page, admitting her turbulent mental health and the emotional struggle she was going through. After being arrested in Waller County, Texas, last week, she said she had attempted suicide last year. Despite this, her friends and family insisted they had no notion she was depressed or had attempted suicide, and were in disbelief when her death in a Waller County jail was announced as a suicide on Thursday.
While Bland is an anomaly -- African-American suicides make up one of the smallest percentages of suicides in the general population -- her hidden struggle with depression is not uncommon for African-American women. Black women suffering from depression and suicidal thoughts face a unique set of barriers, and often suffer in silence.
Researchers found that women who have experienced race and gender-based discrimination are more at risk for suicide, Psych Central reported. This backs up a previous study that found a correlation between low socioeconomic status and poor mental health.
In the study “Too Much of a Good Thing? Psychosocial Resources, Gendered Racism, and Suicidal Ideation Among Low Socioeconomic Status African-American Women,” published in Social Psychology Quarterly in 2012, researchers found a correlation between race and gender-based discrimination and suicidal ideation, which means thinking about and desiring to commit suicide.
The study also found that having a purpose in life, self-esteem and active coping, which are all psychological resources that have been found to be protective of mental health among white Americans, can also buffer the effects that gender and racial discrimination have on suicidal ideations among low socioeconomic status among African-American women. 
 
Statistically speaking, African American women don't commit suicide. Lowest rate in US #WhatHappenedToSandraBland pic.twitter.com/Yq7OH6zy38
&mdash; Pamela Mays McDonald (@pammaysmcdonald) July 22, 2015
 
 
“There are specific historical and cultural circumstances and lived experiences that are unique to each racial and gender group, and these differentially shape factors that increase or decrease vulnerability and resilience,” said Dr. Brea L. Perry, a co-author of the study, Psych Central reported.
There were 41,149 suicides reported in the U.S. in 2013, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, making it the 10th leading cause of death for Americans. Men accounted for 77.9 percent of suicides in 2013. The rate of white suicides was the highest, at 14.2 percent. The second-highest rate was among American Indians and Alaska Natives, with 11.7 percent. Asian and Pacific Islanders came next with 5.8 percent, Hispanics had a rate of 5.4 percent and blacks had the lowest with 5.4 percent.
African-Americans who do suffer from depression often do so secretly. The Grady Nia Project, a long-running series of studies with African-American women who have a history of domestic violence and suicidality, found that cultural norms influence women’s responses to intimate partner violence and suicidality, and African-American women are less likely to seek help from institutions that they feel have contributed to their oppression in the past. 
Black women make up the group most undertreated for depression in the nation, the Huffington Post reported in 2014. A study published by the CDC found that women and African-Americans are more likely to report depression, but only 7.6 percent of African-Americans sought treatment in comparison to 13.6 percent of the general population in 2011.
There are many barriers for black women in finding treatment for depression. Over 20 percent of African-Americans are uninsured, compared to less than 12 percent of whites. Researchers at Mental Health America found that 56 percent of blacks believed that depression was a natural part of aging. 
Researchers at the National Alliance for Mental Illness have found that African-American women often reference emotions related to depression as “evil” or “acting out,” the Huffington Post reported.  The researchers said that these tendencies to deny negative emotions originated with slavery, and that avoiding emotions was a survival technique and has now become a cultural pattern for the African-American community. There also is a stereotype of the strong, black woman that causes many African-American women to avoid seeking help from mental health services.
"Through the ideal of the strong black woman, African-American women are subject not only to historically rooted racist and sexist characterizations of black women as a group but also a matrix of unrealistic interracial expectations that construct black women as unshakeable, unassailable and naturally strong,” said Melissa Harris-Perry in her book "Sister Citizen: Shame, Stereotypes and Black Women in America.”  
Shares of Amazon.com Inc. (NASDAQ:AMZN) soared 18 percent in extended-hours trading Thursday after the e-commerce giant posted a surprise quarterly profit. Sales soared 20 percent from a year ago, driven by strength in North America, its largest market.
The stock soared just over 18.5 percent to as high as $572.99 in after-hours trading.
Amazon has a long history of lacking profitability, but investors continue to back the company as it sacrifices profits for rapid sales growth. Sales in North America grew 26 percent to $13.8 billion last quarter, up from $11 billion during the same period a year ago. 
Amazon closed Thursday’s U.S. trading session with a market value of $227 billion. The Seattle company is currently the No. 2 performer in the Nasdaq 100 so far this year, gaining nearly 60 percent. It is just behind movie-streaming service Netflix Inc. (NASDAQ:NFLX), which has rallied more than 100 percent since January on strong subscriber growth.
For the January-March quarter, Amazon reported a fiscal second-quarter profit of $92 million, or earnings per share of 19 cents, on revenue of $23.18 billion, compared with a loss of $126 million, or 27 cents per share, on revenue of $19.3 billion a year ago.
Wall Street had projected Amazon to report a fiscal second-quarter loss of $47.49 million, or earnings per share of 12 cents, on revenue of $22.4 billion, said analysts polled by Thomson Reuters.
In April, the e-commerce giant finally revealed sales figures for its cloud computing unit, Amazon Web Services, for the first time in a decade, offering insight into the company's core domestic operations. CEO Jeff Bezos called it a “$5 billion business” that is growing fast.
For the quarter ended June 30, the e-commerce company said its cloud business generated revenue of $1.8 billion, up from $1 billion last year.
Analysts also hope to glean a clear picture into how last week's Amazon Prime Day sale -- the one-day sale celebrating the company’s 20th anniversary -- boosted revenue in the current quarter. Sales exceeded its biggest Black Friday ever, as global order growth leaped 266 percent over the same day last year, and 18 percent more than Black Friday 2014, the company said last week. [Black Friday is the day after Thanksgiving, when early Christmas sales push many retailers into profitability for the year.]
Wall Street estimates the sale added 2 percent to unit growth for the current quarter, Gene Munster, an analyst at Piper Jaffray, said in a research note July 16.
"We continue to view Prime as one of the most important drivers of growth for Amazon and believe that this campaign will only strengthen its perceived value among consumers," Jaffray said.
Ahead of the earnings announcement, Munster gave Amazon an Overweight rating Monday with a 12-month price target of $520. 
The stock has already gained 11 percent in July.
The e-commerce giant announced in May its Amazon Prime Now service is offering one-hour delivery from local stores in Manhattan, including groceries, meals and baked goods, through the Amazon Prime Now app. Although the world’s largest retailer, Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (NYSE:WMT), has improved its e-commerce platform, that improvement comes with lower margins, price competition and higher shipping costs, making it more difficult for the retailer to take on its biggest rival, Amazon.
Wal-Mart announced in May that it’s testing a free shipping service this summer in a move to take on Amazon Prime. The service will cost $50 per year and deliver products within three days or less. Amazon Prime, by comparison, costs an annual $99 and promises deliveries in two days or less.
Although Wal-Mart’s service will be cheaper, it’s missing a key feature that draws consumers to Amazon Prime: video streaming.
Jessica Menton covers business and the financial markets. News tips? Email me here. Follow me on Twitter @JessicaMenton.
When New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie was preparing to launch his presidential campaign this spring, he faced a big potential headache: New Jersey pension officials had voted to investigate secret taxpayer fees that the Republican governor’s administration paid to Wall Street firms. But Christie’s administration may have found a stopgap solution: stall.
Four months after state pension trustees’ vote, the retirement system’s chairman told International Business Times that Christie’s aides have so far prevented the probe from getting off the ground.
“They are throwing up obstacles, as many as they can find,” said Tom Bruno, who leads the N.J. Public Employees' Retirement System's board of trustees. Bruno says Christie’s Treasury Department has prevented the probe from going forward until Christie’s appointees on the State Investment Council give their blessing.
The investigation was supposed to evaluate the higher fees that have accompanied the administration’s shift of billions of dollars of pension money into hedge funds, private equity and other so-called “alternative” investments. Despite federal and New Jersey “pay to play” rules, some of those fees have been paid to firms whose executives donated to GOP groups affiliated with Christie. But with New Jersey having no independently elected auditor, treasurer or attorney general, pensioners must ultimately rely on the Christie administration to approve an investigation of its own decisions affecting thousands of retirees.
On Wednesday, Bruno appeared before the investment council urging them to approve the audit. That call was seconded by senior Democratic state lawmakers, who in recent weeks have conducted hearings into the Christie administration’s increasing fees paid to financial firms at a time when the pension system has been delivering below-median returns. Christie’s administration has paid out those increasing fees -- and downplayed their significance -- at the very moment the governor has demanded retirees accept new cuts to pension benefits.
“I see no reason for the State Investment Council not to go ahead with the requested audit,” Senate Majority Leader Loretta Weinberg, a Democrat, said in a press release on Wednesday. “With the state’s pension system so severely underfunded, we need confirmation of whether the state’s shift into alternative investments has truly provided a hedge against steeper losses in down markets or if the state could have achieved similar results at less cost through other investment strategies.”
Representatives for Christie and the Treasury Department did not respond to questions about the status of the audit.
Massive Increase In Fees
Pension trustees demanded the audit in April following a series of reports from International Business Times spotlighting a massive increase in pension fees paid to private financial firms -- some of whose executives have made campaign contributions to Republican groups affiliated with Christie. In March, IBTimes reported that the Christie administration had failed to disclose potentially hundreds of millions of dollars in fees the state had been paying since Christie took office in January 2010.
Last year, after the initial disclosures, Christie’s then-State Investment Council Chairman Robert Grady resigned amid questions about political favoritism in awarding pension contracts. This year, Christie’s state treasurer, Andrew Sidamon-Eristoff, resigned in June, a month after a testy legislative hearing in which state lawmakers raised questions about the undisclosed fees paid by the pension system under Christie.
The pension trustees’ push for a full audit of the pension system follows moves by the Christie administration that appeared to obscure or conceal details of the system’s finances and oversight decisions.
After financial experts raised questions about the accuracy of the pension performance data in 2014, Christie’s administration rejected repeated open records requests for documents that would show how it calculated the figures. When in the same year it was revealed that Massachusetts Republican gubernatorial candidate Charlie Baker donated $10,000 to the New Jersey Republican Party months before his financial firm received a New Jersey pension deal, Christie’s aides blocked the release of the findings of the government’s pay-to-play investigation until after Baker’s closely fought election.
Meanwhile, in the pension system’s most recent annual report, Christie’s aides changed the way they tabulated pension management fees to make it seem as if the fees had decreased -- when, in fact, they had jumped to $600 million.
'You're Entitled To Your Own Ideology'
Thomas Healey, head of Christie’s pension reform commission, told IBTimes in March that the fees generated by the state’s push into higher-risk alternative investments are “insignificant.” After the head of New Jersey’s largest labor federation this week called for the state to divest all its pension holdings in alternative investments, State Investment Council Chairman Thomas Byrne defended the investment strategy, saying: "If there are people who don't like Wall Street or who think the system is rigged, you're entitled to your point of view. You're entitled to your own ideology, but I don't want to confuse that with prudent investing."
The state’s investment strategy has not, however, generated higher returns for taxpayers and retirees. Last year, a study by Wilshire Associates found that the New Jersey pension fund’s investment return has trailed the median for pension funds throughout the country. 
Facing intensifying scrutiny of high fees and weak returns, New Jersey pension officials have defended their push into alternatives by claiming those assets are designed to reduce volatility and hedge against downturns. That rationale, though, is a marked shift: When Christie officials originally began plowing more retirees’ money into Wall Street firms, Christie’s administration and their financial consultants promoted the move as a way to boost returns over and above those that could be gleaned from low-fee stocks and bonds.
A 2010 memo by the State Investment Council’s consulting firm said “alternative investments have significantly outperformed public markets on a risk-adjusted basis, and we believe they will continue to do so over the long term.” Grady argued the strategy would "maximize returns while appropriately managing risk." And Institutional Investor magazine reported that the state’s hedge-fund consultant “predicts that the pension could earn an additional 3 percent return above traditional asset classes from a diversified portfolio of alternatives.”
On Wednesday, however, the State Investment Council said the pension’s returns have been lower than expected so far this year. 
U.S. stocks traded lower Thursday, with the Dow Jones Industrial Average turning negative for 2015 after multiple blue-chip companies posted mixed earnings results and warned of currency headwinds due to a strong U.S. dollar. A trio of Dow components, including Caterpillar Inc. (NYSE:CAT), Post-it notes maker 3M Co. (NYSE:MMM) and credit card issuer American Express Company (NYSE:AXP), led the blue-chip index lower, tumbling 100 points after all three stocks dropped more than 3 percent.
In afternoon trading, the Dow Jones Industrial Average (INDEXDJX:.DJI) dropped 101.72 points, or 0.57 percent, to 17,749.32. The Standard & Poor's 500 index (INDEXSP:.INX) dipped 9.93 points, or 0.47 percent, to 2,104.21. And the Nasdaq composite (INDEXNASDAQ:.IXIC) lost 14.79 points, or 0.29 percent, to 5,156.85.
For the year, the Dow has shed 78 points, or 0.44 percent. However, the S&P 500 has gained 45 points, or 2 percent, while the Nasdaq has rallied 419 points, or more than 8 percent. 
Seven of the 10 S&P 500 sectors traded lower Thursday, led by declines in utilities and materials.
The Dow was weighed down following a series of mixed earnings reports. Caterpillar shares tumbled to a 52-week low of $76.75 after the world’s largest manufacturer of construction and mining equipment missed revenue forecasts and cut its outlook for the year, citing currency effects from a stronger U.S. dollar and continuing economic weakness in China and Brazil.
Shares of Caterpillar have lost nearly 13 percent since January.
Meanwhile, both 3M and American Express missed revenue forecasts, with the diversified manufacturer citing sluggish global growth and the credit card issuer citing a stronger U.S. dollar.
The robust greenback over the last year has been a huge drag on growth for the benchmark S&P 500, because the index’s companies derive more than 40 percent of their revenue from overseas. The dollar has gained more than 20 percent against major global currencies in the last 12 months.
“I’m anticipating we will still see some positive growth for the quarter, even though it’s still a little bit touch and go, with only 20 percent of the companies reporting so far,” said Karyn Cavanaugh, senior vice president and senior market strategist at Voya Investment Management. "People have been focusing on all the bad things, but if you take a look at the scheme of things, over the last 30 years the dollar has been normalizing to where it was."
Meanwhile, the stock price of Dow component McDonald's Corporation (NYSE:MCD) fell 1 percent after the fast-food chain’s quarterly profit dropped 13 percent in the wake of fewer customers visiting its restaurants. Global same-store sales fell by 0.7 percent, wider than the 0.4 percent drop analysts were expecting for the quarter, according to Consensus Metrix.
The Nasdaq composite also turned lower in afternoon trading after the index briefly traded higher in morning trading after iPhone maker Apple Inc. (NASDAQ:AAPL) and software company Microsoft Corporation (NASDAQ:MSFT) rebounded after posting declines earlier this week on mixed earnings.
Among the 54 S&P 500 companies scheduled to report earnings Thursday, investors will turn their attention next to e-commerce giant Amazon.com Inc. and the world's biggest coffee chain, Starbucks Corporation; both post quarterly results after the closing bell. Wall Street now expects a 5.3 percent drop in second-quarter profits, below July 10 estimates of a 6.4 percent decline, according to analysts polled by Bloomberg.
Separately, U.S. jobless claims tumbled to a nearly 42-year low last week as fewer Americans filed new applications for unemployment benefits. Initial claims for state unemployment benefits declined 26,000 to a seasonally adjusted 255,000 for the week ended July 18, the lowest level since November 1973, the U.S. Labor Department said Thursday.
The strong employment data, coupled with a series of better-than-expected housing reports released this week paint a strong picture for the U.S. economy, which could keep the Federal Reserve on course to raising interest rates for the first time since 2006 this year.
Most market professionals anticipate the Fed will lift rates in September. "A rate hike this year is a huge bolster for confidence because it's a sign the U.S. economy is getting better," Cavanaugh said. "That means the central bank no longer needs a crisis level rate policy."
In the week ending July 18, the advance figure for seasonally adjusted initial claims was 255,000, a decrease of 26,000 from the previous week's unrevised level of 281,000. This is the lowest level for initial claims since November 24, 1973 when it was 233,000. Photo: U.S. Labor Department
New York made shockwaves on Wednesday when a specially-convened state wage board called for a hike in the minimum pay for fast-food workers to $15 an hour. Assuming it’s approved by Gov. Andrew Cuomo -- and no signs suggest otherwise -- the new rate will be, at once, a jaw-dropping victory for labor activists, a rare political setback for name-brand restaurant chains, and the latest piece of fodder for a national debate about the value of fair pay. It also can’t come soon enough for David Ramirez.
“We need that raise, my man,” says Ramirez, 52, an employee who's worked at the same Subway restaurant in midtown Manhattan for the past 10 years, where he earns the state minimum, now $8.75 an hour. “We bust our a-- up in here.”
On most days, Ramirez wakes well before dawn in downtown Brooklyn, where he splits monthly rent of $1,300 with his mother who receives Social Security benefits. He usually starts work at 5 in the morning. On some days when his shift ends at 3 in the afternoon, he heads to a different Subway in Woodmere, Queens -- about an hour and a half away by train-- and works another 4 hours. It makes for an exhausting 60 hour work week. Since he divides the time between two jobs, neither tallying more than 40 hours per week, Ramirez doesn’t earn any overtime. In New York City, he says, those annual earnings of about $21,000 are hard to get by on. A raise of $6 would go a long way.
“It would make a big difference, not just to me,” he says, “but other families too.”
Ramirez poses for a photo at the Subway where he's worked for the last decade. Photo: Cole Stangler
Uncharted Waters
That was also the thinking of the Fast Food Wage Board, which voted unanimously in support of the $15 rate. The pay hike would apply to fast-food chains with 30 or more locations nationwide, and be phased in over time, becoming mandatory in New York City by 2019, and the rest of the state by July 2021. Backed with enthusiasm by Gov. Cuomo, the raise can proceed without legislative approval: a New Deal era law allows state regulators to boost wages for specific industries and occupations where they deem pay “insufficient to provide for the life and health” of workers. The raise comes after two and a half years of high-visibility protests from the so-called Fight For 15, a movement of low-wage workers and labor activists backed by the powerful Service Employees International Union that demands higher wages in fast food and other low-paying sectors.
Amid pressure from these activists, other major cities have already approved $15 minimum wages --Seattle, San Francisco and both the city and county of Los Angeles-- but New York’s looming pay hike is unique for a couple of reasons. For one, it's the only one to apply to a single industry. It also would take effect across the entire state, whereas the other ambitious wage hikes have all been limited to cities. 
Jay Holland, government affairs coordinator for the New York State Restaurant Association, has blasted the state's decision to single out the fast-food industry. "This is an economic policy that's never been tried before," he says of the sector-wide wage. "The idea that an EMT worker or a home care aide should make less than a fast-food worker flies in the face of reason."
“Most restaurants operate under really thin margins," he adds. "You’re gonna have to raise prices, lay people off or come up with some creative scheduling practices to save money.”
Anna, who works scrubbing tables and mopping floors at a McDonald’s in midtown Manhattan, agrees with Holland. She earns $9.75 an hour and works 32 hours a week. Like many low-wage workers, she lacks job protections and did not provide her last name. “It sounds good,” she says of $15 an hour, “but you know they’re gonna cut hours. That’s what they’re already doing.”
James Sherk, labor policy expert at the conservative Heritage Foundation, says the pay mandates will accelerate the industry’s turn toward automation -- self-service tablets, for example, that replace the need for cashiers. Such technologies are already being developed, but are not yet widely used.
“The main barrier to implementation is the up-front cost and then maintenance,” Sherk says. “But with the minimum wage going up it will make a lot more sense for McDonald’s to do this. It changes the financial calculus.”
Tsedeye Gebreselassie, staff attorney at the left-leaning National Employment Law Project, shrugs off the criticism. Businesses always tend to complain when the wage floor rises, she says, and this is no exception. Plus, the hike is staggered over time, giving the corporations -- some of which are the largest in the nation -- plenty of time to adjust.
The boost will also deliver broader benefits to the economy, as workers find themselves with more spending power than before, Gebreselassie says. That bottom tier of the labor force is in desperate need of economic gains. “Part of why there has to be such a dramatic increase is that wages have fallen so dramatically,” she says. “This is about playing catch up.”
It’s also about setting high standards for an increasingly large part of the labor force, she says. More than 4 million people work in the fast-food sector nationwide; 180,000 of them are in New York.
As the U.S. economic recovery continues to inch forward, lingering myths of fast food as a temporary gig for teens simply don't reflect the new economic reality. A New York survey found 87.5 percent of the state's fast-food workers are aged 19 and older. “Because this is such a growing industry, more and more adults are going to be spending their careers in it," she says, adding it makes sense that decent pay should follow.
Another benefit of the wage hike is that it remains largely immune to a common threat of employers confronted with mounting high labor costs: relocation. Unlike the sorts of manufacturing jobs that companies can easily ship to cheaper states or countries -- say, General Electric’s ongoing relocation from a unionized capacitor plant in Fort Edward, New York, to non-union Clearwater, Florida -- fast-food restaurants aren’t about to up and leave the state en masse. “You need to be where your customers are, where the demand is,” says Gebreselassie.
“Everything’s Rising Except For The Pay”
For many workers, business concerns don't change the fact that current pay practices can verge on nightmarish.
“Everything's rising except for the pay: rents, food, transportation,” says Filiberto Carrillo, who, like David Ramirez, has to work at two different New York City Subways to make ends meet. He’s worked at Subway for six years, he says, and earns $10 an hour. “Right now, when you ask for more pay, they just give you more hours.”
Physically, he cannot tolerate much more. Carrillo says he usually works 15 to 16 hour days, or 75 hours a week. A $15 wage would be a relief, he says, before going to fix coffee for an anxious customer in line.
Meanwhile, for Ramirez, a pay raise might resolve his MetroCard dilemma. Right now, he uses a weekly pass. He knows it’s cheaper to get the monthly one, but it’s especially prone to malfunction if it bends a lot -- it’s happened before and takes far too long to get fixed. The monthly cost difference between the two passes is about $7. He would rather not make such calculations.