
Cardinal Health shareholders wanted to be sure that the company’s medicines were not used for lethal injections. But the Securities and Exchange Commission Friday approved the health services company’s request to block the shareholder proposal from coming to a vote.
Cardinal Health, which distributes pharmaceuticals, medical supplies and equipment across the country, earned a profit of $1.29 billion last year. The company objected to the shareholder proposal, which identified eight drugs sold by Cardinal that are used for executions. An investigation by the Associated Press found that at least three doses of one of those drugs, rocuronium bromide, were purchased by the Virginia Department of Corrections. In Virginia’s lethal injections, rocuronium bromide is used to stop breathing after a sedative is administered.
Cardinal Health declined to comment for this article.
The shareholder resolution was brought by the New York State Common Retirement Fund, the state’s public pension plan. The pension fund is the third largest in the country, valued at roughly $192 billion. Its proposal was for Cardinal to produce a report detailing the controls it has in place to ensure that its drugs are not sold to prisons, as they were in Virginia.
Filings show Cardinal argued to the SEC that the proposal deals with the company’s “ordinary business operations,” such as relationships with suppliers and sales to customers, and can therefore be excluded from a shareholder vote. The SEC has been increasingly permissive of corporation’s requests to not let shareholder resolutions move forward — with 78 percent approved this year, compared to 68 percent in 2016. Meanwhile, Texas Rep. Jeb Hensariling, Chair of the House Financial Services committee, has introduced legislation that would drastically reduce the number of shareholders able to file proposals.
Read: Are Republicans Trying To Eliminate Activist Investors? Bill To Replace Dodd-Frank Could Silence Shareholders
The impetus for New York’s proposal was not a moral concern about the death penalty but an extension of the pension fund’s fiscal responsibility. The fund, a long-term investor focused on stable profits, is concerned about the potential damage to a company’s reputation — and therefore value — if it becomes known as a supplier of drugs for lethal injection.
“Many pharmaceutical manufacturers oppose the use of their medicines in executions and impose contractual restrictions on their distributors to prevent their use in lethal injections,” Matthew Sweeney, spokesperson for the New York State comptroller’s office, told International Business Times. “If Cardinal were to provide a restricted drug for use in an execution, and breach a contract with the manufacturer, it would put itself, and its investors at risk of financial and reputational damage.”
All FDA-approved manufacturers of these pharmaceuticals in the U.S. publicly oppose the use of their drugs in lethal injections. Pfizer is the primary producer of rocuronium bromide in the country and its contracts with distributors, such as Cardinal, require those companies to be sure that their drugs do not wind up being used in executions. Pfizer’s public policy paper on the issue reads, in part:
“Pfizer makes its products to enhance and save the lives of the patients we serve. Consistent with these values, Pfizer strongly objects to the use of its products as lethal injections for capital punishment.”
However, Pfizer did not have that policy until May of last year. The drug manufacturer’s decision was, in part, attributed to pressure from the New York pension fund, which filed a similar shareholder proposal in late 2015. Even though the SEC allowed the proposal to be exempted and it was never brought to a vote, the public pressure and threat of shareholder action was enough to persuade Pfizer that the potential damage to its reputation was not worth the risk. Cardinal may yet come to the same conclusion.
United Airlines found itself in hot water once again after a Houston family blamed the airline for the death of their 5-year-old dog, who was put in the cargo hold of a plane that was delayed at the airport in Houston, according to ABC13.
The Rasmussen family claimed the dog, a King Charles Spaniel, was in the cargo hold while the plane stayed on the tarmac for two hours before it took off to San Francisco, the ABC affiliate report also said. 
The family said the dog died while it was held in the hold.
Read: United Airlines Passenger Accused Of Groping Teenage Girl During Flight
"We are so sorry to learn of Lulu's passing and have reached out to our customer to offer our condolences and assistance. We are deeply upset any time an animal suffers an injury while traveling with us and especially grieved in the rare instance that one passes away. We are conducting a thorough review of this incident," the airline said in a statement to International Business Times. The statement didn't reveal the cause of the dog's death.
United Airlines had the worst record in pet deaths among airlines in the U.S. in 2016.  According to the Department of Transportation’s Air Travel Consumer Report, nine pets — eight dogs and a Sphynx kitten — died under the airline's care in 2016.
"More than 300 animals have died in cargo holds since 2005, including 74 on United flights. According to a report from the U.S. Department of Transportation, the airline had the worst record of animal deaths and injuries among all U.S. airlines in 2016," a PETA blog post also noted.
Over the last few months, United Airlines has found itself in a slew of controversies, with some linked to animals.
In April, a 10-month-old Continental Giant rabbit named Simon died on a United flight from the United Kingdom to the U.S. The animal was the offspring of the Guinness World Record-holding rabbit, Darius. Simon was found dead after arriving at the O’Hare airport, and the airline was blamed for its death as the rabbit was said to be in a healthy condition prior to boarding the plane. 
PETA’s president, Ingrid Newkirk, issued a statement following Simon’s death.
“This rabbit was failed first by the breeder – who churns out and sells baby bunnies when animal shelters and rescue groups are full of homeless rabbits – and then by United Airlines, which shipped him off in a cargo hold like an old suitcase,” Newkirk said.
Read: United Airlines Leaves Canadian Teenager Behind In Connecticut
“This rabbit’s death is not unique – more than 300 animals have died in cargo holds since 2005, and many more have been injured or lost,” Newkirk continued in her statement. “PETA urges United to join JetBlue and Southwest in prohibiting companion animals from being flown as checked baggage in the confusion, noise, extreme temperatures, and improper pressurization of a cargo hold.”
Last month, rapper ScHoolboy Q accused United of putting his dog in a wrong flight. The rapper, whose real name is Quincy Matthew Hanley, asked the airline for an explanation on Twitter, adding he was "pissed" due to the incident and planned to sue the airline.
While both political parties have denounced the  rising cost of prescription drugs, neither  Democrats nor Republicans have done much to address the problem. But this summer, a new tool to restrict the rising prices of drugs developed with taxpayer dollars has been introduced by the two U.S. senators who don’t belong to either party.
The mechanism works like this: Drug manufacturers who take federal money to develop drugs must keep their U.S. prices in line with the prices they charge in other economically advanced nations — typically much lower than drug prices in the U.S.
Read: Democratic Governors’ Fundraising Trails Republicans, Except When It Comes To Big Pharma
The system would prevent pharmaceutical companies from effectively double-charging U.S. consumers by using their tax money for research and then charging them some of the steepest prices in the world at the pharmacy. Pharmaceutical companies, who pour millions of dollars into both the  Democratic and Republican parties, are against the idea, which is perhaps why the fix is being pushed by Bernie Sanders of Vermont and Angus King of Maine, the only independents in congress.
The U.S. has the highest level of  per capita pharmaceutical spending of any nation on Earth, according to the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD). And while Americans spend more than any other country to buy their drugs, they also spend more than any other country to  develop those same drugs.
Senator Angus King (I-ME) asks questions at a Senate Intelligence Committee hearing on the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA) in Washington, D.C., June 7, 2017. King introduced an amendment into a military spending bill that would require drug makers keep drug prices in line with pharmaceutical costs in other countries.  Photo: Reuters
In June, King successfully added language to the  2018 military spending bill (still working its way through congress) that would allow the Department of Defense to take away exclusive patents from drug companies that benefitted from DoD funding if their drug price in the U.S. rises above the median price in seven foreign countries with similar economies.
Then last week, Sanders introduced  legislation that would tie the prices of drugs made with government funding to costs in other countries. Unlike King’s language, Sanders’ bill would expand the concept beyond the DoD. The bill requires companies taking federal funds to develop drugs to enter into “reasonable pricing” agreements with the Secretary of Health and Human Services.
“Under this insane system, Americans pay twice. First we pay to create these lifesaving drugs, then we pay high prices to buy those drugs,” wrote Sanders in  a New York Times op-ed. “Our government must stop being pushovers for the pharmaceutical industry and  its 1,400 lobbyists.”
The bill defines a “reasonable price” as no more than the lowest prices charged in countries with GDP and per capita income similar to the U.S. (The bill specifically pegs pricing to countries in the Organization for Economic Co-Operation and Development.)
The proposal is the  latest salvo in Sanders’ effort to stop the military from granting French pharmaceutical company Sanofi Pasteur the exclusive right to sell a Zika vaccine.
“The days of allowing Sanofi and other drug makers to gouge American consumers after taking billions in taxpayer money must end,” Sanders told  HuffPost this week. “That is why I am introducing legislation to demand fairer, lower prices for the Zika vaccine and for every drug developed with government resources.”
But just how much government support the industry receives is up for debate. While industry estimates put total annual private R&D spending by biopharmaceutical companies at about  $60 billion per year, the government’s contribution is much harder to nail down. The National Institutes of Health, the government’s main funder of health research, told International Business Times in a statement that “there is no exact number which would accurately capture NIH investment” in drug development. In total, NIH spends about  $32 billion on medical research annually.
Last year, the National Center for Science and Engineering Statistics estimated that in 2014, total federal government R&D spending on pharmaceuticals and medicines  was just $267 million. But that number takes into account only money given directly to drug makers.
“Federal support of biopharma R&D isn’t going to take the form of big checks cut to companies,”  Scott Hinds, a pharmaceutical industry analyst for investment research firm Sector and Sovereign Research told IBT in an email. “Rather, it’s going to come through funding grants and research for academics, government employees and other non-industry scientists.”
“Typically, then, if anything of commercial value is discovered in this sponsored research, those compounds will be sold or licensed to drug companies who have the capital and resources to spend on later phase (more expensive) clinical development necessary to bring them to market,” Hinds said.
Other experts told IBT federal support of drug development goes well beyond just funding research.
“It’s not so much the money we are actually spending through NIH. We are providing huge value to companies in tax credits, other incentives, expedited FDA approval, exclusivity agreements… all of these are benefits,” Rachel Sachs, an associate professor at the Washington University in St. Louis School of Law told IBT.
Sachs cited a 50 percent tax credit for the development of  “orphan” drugs as an example of the government’s support of the pharmaceutical industry. The value of that orphan drug tax credit is estimated to be worth $50 billion between 2016 and 2025, according to the  Treasury Department.

But the benefits flow both ways between the pharmaceutical industry and Washington, which is why the Sanders bill faces an uphill battle to reach the floor for a vote. The bill was sent to the Senate Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions committee, which is chaired by Lamar Alexander. Pharmaceutical and health products companies gave more to Alexander’s campaigns between 2011 and 2016 than did any other industry, according to the  Center for Responsive Politics. And even if the bill gets to the floor, it would face opposition from the industry’s  1,350 lobbyists, who don’t come cheap. The pharmaceutical and health products industry has spent a remarkable  $144 million on lobbying so far in 2017, more than double what the  defense industry has spent over the same time period.
“Proposals to insert a reasonable pricing clause ignore the substantial R&D investments and risks undertaken by the private sector in developing and bringing a new medicine to patients,” the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America (PhRMA), which has spent $14 million on lobbying so far this year, told IBT in a statement. “Such proposals undermine critical intellectual property rights and incentives, create substantial uncertainty for companies and establish completely arbitrary criteria for taking intellectual property. This could chill critically needed collaborations and investment by the private sector to address some of our most serious unmet medical needs.”
The pharmaceutical industry, which  says it costs $2.6 billion to bring a drug to market (while  spending more on marketing than research) made a similar argument against “reasonable pricing” more than two decades ago, when it successfully persuaded the Clinton administration to repeal a “reasonable pricing” rule implemented by President George H.W. Bush.
Read: Bernie Sanders’ Drug Price Bill Would Save Billions, Congressional Analysts Say
After the  1980 Bayh-Dole Act, private researchers could patent intellectual property they developed using federal funding. But by the late 1980s, outrage over the $8,000 annual cost of  AIDS drug AZT, which was the only drug approved for treatment of the disease at the time, prompted the Bush administration to implement price control measures. In 1989, NIH was granted the right to review the introductory prices of drugs that were produced with government research, over the objections of the pharmaceutical industry.
“The Bush administration felt it was appropriate to expect some concessions on pricing if the government was involved in the drug and funding research,” James Love, director of Knowledge Ecology International, told IBT. Love researched the original rule while working for Ralph Nader’s Center for the Study of Responsive Law in the early 1990s.
But unlike the specific criteria for reasonable pricing put forth in the Sanders bill, the Bush rule was a bit ambiguous. “The agreements said something to the effect that it had to show some relationship between price and government’s role in developing the drug... Nobody really knew what it meant,” Love said.
Just six years later, the  Clinton administration rescinded the order on the grounds that it was harmful to innovation.
“The pricing clause has driven industry away from potentially beneficial scientific collaborations... without providing an offsetting benefit to the public,” NIH Director Dr. Harold Varmus said at the time. “Eliminating the clause will promote research that can enhance the health of the American people.”
A Chinese restaurant sparked controversy for reportedly offering discounts to women based on their bra size. A woman with an A-cup received 5 percent off, while a customer whose chest was closer G-cup could see a 65 percent discount on her meal.
Locals complained to city officials regarding posters suggesting discounts based on bra sizes in the Trendy Shrimp restaurant in a Hangzhou city mall, located in Zhejiang. One customer said the posters were "vulgar advertising" and "discriminatory towards women."
TRENDING: WatchOS 4 Release Date: Features That Will Make The Apple Watch Better
The posters featured outside the restaurant showed cartoon figures of women in their underwear with the caption, "The whole city is looking for BREASTS." It listed discounts based on women’s cup size and claimed the bigger the size, the larger the discount, according to Qianjiang Evening Post Monday.
A poster is pictured above Aug, 7.2017 of women's cup sizes. A woman with an A-cup bra could get 5 percent off her meal, someone with a G-cup could received a 5 percent discount. Photo: QIANJIANG EVENING POST  According to patrons, the restaurant installed the poster August 1 but removed it shortly thereafter as a result of complaints. Trendy Shrimp general manager Lan Shenggang justified the offers by claiming that the promotion increased clientele.
"Once the promotion started, customer numbers rose by about 20 percent," he told Qianjiang Evening Post. He added that the signs flattered some of the customers and said that "some of the girls we met were very proud, they had nothing to hide."
Shenggang said customers could "avoid embarrassment" by inquiring about the discount from a waitress, rather than asking the male staff.
TRENDING: Samsung Galaxy S9 Expected Features: 4K Displays, 4 Cameras And 7nm Processor
This wasn’t the first time Chinese customers received rewards at an establishment based on their physical appearance. A Korean food market in China reportedly offered free meals to customers deemed attractive in 2015, according to China Daily.
Customers thought to be the "best-looking" received free meals from the market based on opinions from nearby cosmetic surgery clinic staff. Market workers took pictures of customers for the cosmetic workers, who rated them based on aesthetic.
A month later, another Chinese restaurant reportedly offered discounts based on customers' weight. The Na Huo restaurant in Chongqing offered overweight men deals and discounts on food, while women received discounts for being thin, according to the China Radio International. The restaurant offered free meals to men who weighed an upwards of 308 pounds. Women who weighed around 76 pounds received a free meal.
Promotional photos posted to the restaurant’s social media page showed staff weighing customers. 
"Na Huo restaurant cares about fat people and thin people. Bring your fat or thin friends, eat for free," the restaurant’s website stated.
Restaurant discrimination is considered illegal in the United States. Federal law protects any patron from being discriminated against based on appearance, according to the civils rights section of Find Law. Anyone who faces discrimination is urged to file a lawsuit with the U.S. district court.
"Federal law prohibits privately owned facilities that offer food, lodging, gasoline or entertainment to the public from discriminating on the basis of race, color, religion, or national origin," the website read.
Three passengers and seven crew members of American Airlines flight 759 from Greece to Philadephia were injured when the plane was hit by "severe turbulence" just before landing Saturday.
The flight, with 299 people on board, landed at Philadelphia International Airport at 3:10 p.m. EDT., Fox 29 reported. 
The 10 injured had to be hospitalized on landing, the airline said in a statement, which did not provide any details regarding the extent or nature of the injuries.
Passengers said the turbulence lasted for about 15 seconds.
"I was looking forward and I just saw everything just move upwards about four feet," passenger Alex Ehmke said in a phone interview with NBC News. He added: "So, I saw drinks, you know, flying up against walls and up on the ceiling.”
"The gentleman directly behind us and diagonally behind us hit the ceiling himself," Ehmke said.

Read: American Airlines Crew Forced Passenger To Sit Next To Masturbating Man, Woman Claims
One of the passengers, Ervin Fang, also tweeted a video of the aftermath of the turbulence.

Another passenger, Jessica Huseman, tweeted photographs of the inside of the flight after the turbulence, showing spilled coffee all over the place.


Huseman also tweeted how the passengers used their fleece blankets to mop the ceiling of the plane after drinks went flying during the disturbance. She also wrote that during the violent shaking, a flight attendant dislocated his shoulder.
Another passenger, Ian Smith of South Philadelphia, shared his experience of the flight with WPVI, an ABC-affiliate.
He said: "Thirty minutes out. They were giving us our drinks. The flight attendants were in the last couple rows when they said 'fasten your seat belts.' And then they said for the flight attendants to get to their seats, and they didn't even have time. It started shaking, then it took a big drop. Babies screaming, people in front of us hitting the ceiling."
In its statement to PennLive, the airline said: "American Airlines flight 759 from Athens, Greece to Philadelphia International Airport briefly encountered severe turbulence shortly before landing safely in Philadelphia. The seatbelt sign was on at the time. Three passengers and seven crew members were transported to a local hospital for evaluation. We are taking care of our passengers and our crew members at this time and want to thank our team members for keeping our passengers safe."
Read: Watch How An American Airlines Flight Catches Fire Just Before Take-Off
In the last few days, the airline has been in the news for various reasons. A video showing one of its flights catching fire in Oct. 2016 surfaced online Friday. The American Airlines flight 383 was about to take off from Chicago's O'Hare Airport to Miami when one of its sides caught fire, leading to emergency evacuations.
On Aug. 2, turbulence in American Airlines flight 2713 injured 30 passengers. The plane, traveling to the island nation of Trinidad and Tobago from Miami, had to make an emergency landing at the Piarco International Airport. 
Ten days after announcing that the Falcon Heavy rocket will make its maiden flight in November, SpaceX CEO Elon Musk again took to his Twitter and Instagram accounts Sunday to share the “first draft animation” of what the debut of the rocket — currently the world’s most powerful — could look like.


Keeping in line with what SpaceX has been doing with the Falcon 9 rockets, the animation shows both the side boosters (each of them a Falcon 9) of the rocket landing back on Earth after sending the core on its way. After the first and second stages separate, the first stage rocket (also a Falcon 9) aligns itself for reentry and while the animation shows it landing on ground, Musk had earlier said the center booster will actually land on a drone-ship.

Read: Elon Musk Announces November Test For Falcon Heavy
Musk warned once again that the November debut of the Falcon Heavy (an exact date hasn’t yet been fixed) could be a failure when he said in the Instagram post there was a “lot that can go wrong in the November launch…”
Earlier, when he announced the first flight of the rocket and was replying to some of his many Twitter followers, Musk had mentioned luck as a factor.

While speaking at the International Space Station Research and Development Conference in Washington, D.C., on July 19, Musk said even just getting away with no damage to the launch pad would be considered something of a success.
“There’s a lot of risk associated with Falcon Heavy, a real good chance that that vehicle does not make it to orbit. I want to make sure to set expectations accordingly. I hope it makes it far enough beyond the pad so that it does not cause pad damage. I would consider even that a win, to be honest,” Musk reportedly said of the November test.
Despite the repeated success of Falcon 9 (barring the one on-ground explosion in September 2016), Musk has repeatedly stressed that putting the Falcon Heavy in orbit will not be easy. That three of the familiar rocket’s cores were being put together to power the Falcon Heavy didn’t make things simpler, Musk explained told the International Space Station Research and Development Conference.
“At first it sounds real easy, you just stick two first stages on as strap-on boosters, but then everything changes. All the loads change, aerodynamics totally change. You’ve tripled the vibration and acoustics. You sort of break the qualification levels on so much of the hardware. … The amount of load you’re putting through that center core is crazy because you’ve got two super-powerful boosters also shoving that center core, so we had to redesign the whole center core airframe. It’s not like the Falcon 9 because it’s got to take so much load. Then you’ve got separation systems,” Musk said.
Read: Is Jeff Bezos Working On A Rocket Bigger Than Falcon Heavy?
There are two Falcon Heavy tests scheduled for the first half of 2018, and their fate will depend on how the November test goes. All tests will take place from NASA’s Kennedy Space Center in Cape Canaveral, Florida. SpaceX can’t use its own Texas testing facility because it can’t support the thrust (5.1 million pounds at take-off) generated by the Falcon Heavy.
If there are no unexpected explosions and damaged launch pads, commercial flights of Falcon Heavy will start in the latter half of 2018. The pricing details on the SpaceX website say customers would have to pay $90 million to send up to 8 metric tons of payload to geosynchronous transfer orbit. The largest rocket in operation currently — the United Launch Alliance’s (a Boeing-Lockheed Martin joint venture) Delta Heavy IV — has almost half the payload capacity of the Falcon Heavy. So putting the rocket into commercial operation could mean a big business boost for SpaceX, which — with an estimated valuation of $21 billion — is already among the world’s most valuable privately held companies.
A t-shirt company is looking to reclaim the swastika symbol for "love and peace" and to shake the stigma of the Nazi Party's 20th Century appropriation.
For centuries, the swastika was a positive Hindu, Buddhist cultural symbol and ancient religious icon used in the Indian subcontinent . It would later be twisted and appropriated by the Nazi party to symbolize Nazi Germany in the 1920s-1945. While the ancient symbol once meant good luck, it is now inextricably linked to the oppressive regime of the Nazis who attempted to create an Aryan race and perpetrated the Holocaust on European Jews. One t-shirt company, however, appears to think they can get the symbol back.
The company, KA design, is selling t-shirts and sweatshirts online through Teespring, an online custom clothing retailer, depicting a white swastika on a rainbow background with the word peace below. Another design spells out the word love in white on a rainbow background with the ‘o’ replaced by a swastika.
READ: Andrew Anglin Neo-Nazi Website Founder Missing After Jewish Woman Filed Lawsuit Over Internet Trolls
The company’s tag line is “questing boundaries” and on their Facebook posted a video explaining their idea.
“They took the swastika, rotated it 45 degrees and turned it into hatred, fear, racism and power.
They stigmatized the swastika. They won. They limited our freedom. Or Maybe Not?” the video reads. “The swastika is coming back together with love, peace, respect and freedom.”
The symbol is still banned in Germany after it was used during World War II by Adolf Hitler and the Nazis. In the United States, the swastika is considered a hate symbol.
“We really like the symbol in its shape and aesthetics, and we would love to share the beauty of this symbol detached from the hatred associated with it,” said a representative from the company to Dazed Magazine Saturday. “We hope to be able to extend our Swastika line to new design concept and colors, while keeping our current peace message. Our dream is to feel free to use this symbol without any kind of limitation, however we prefer.”
The Facebook page of the company is filled with people who are not fans of what the company is trying to do.
“I don't know why it seemed necessary to try and "reinvent" a symbol that caused so much pain and is still so painful for so many,” said one commenter on Facebook. “Please do not buy this disturbing product. You can not erase the evil this symbol embodies and is a reminder of, no matter what colour you decide to make it.”
Another commenter felt that the symbol is gone forever.
READ: Nazi Relics Found Inside Hidden Room In Argentina, Believed To Be Country's Largest Collection
“This is inconsiderate. It doesn't matter what this symbol used to be, it has changed for ever, it can never be seen the same way. More than 60 million people died because of Nazism and you think that can be forgotten? Shame on your company!” she wrote.
The company has a 1.5 star rating on Facebook.
​
An increasing amount of cable companies seemed to give into the streaming boom as some companies reportedly decided to partner with streaming behemoth Netflix. More U.S. cable companies are expected to make Netflix accessible through its set-top boxes.
No. 3 cable provider Charter Communications Inc is supposed to partner up with Netflix, according to Reuters Sunday. More than a dozen top U.S. cable companies joined up with Netflix and some could start selling the streaming service in tandem with video and internet offers.
TRENDING: Karate Kid TV Show: Who Will Star In The YouTube Show?
Cable provider Altice NV ATCA.AS attempted a similar deal in France and is looking to duplicate it in the U.S., sources told Reuters this month.
"Our whole model is about cooperation with many of the (streaming) providers," Altice USA ATUS.N Chief Executive Dexter Goei told reporters in May.
Netflix said it considered making similar types of deals with other pay TV providers.
"We're now looking at proposals for including Netflix in some services and beginning to learn the bundling part of the business," Netflix CEO Reed Hastings said during a webcast in July. "We're interested in expanding that."
These partnerships could help expand Netflix’s customers in the United States, market analysts considered saturated, while expansion overseas has exploded. 
As of June 30, Netflix reported 51.92 million U.S.-based streaming customers and 52.03 million foreign-based streaming customers, which surpassed analyst’s predictions.
According to a report released July, Parks Associates found that 59 percent of U.S. broadband households subscribe to Netflix, Amazon, or Hulu.
Netflix’s deals with pay TV companies helped it surpass expectations in the U.S. market, Cowen & Co analyst John Blackledge told Reuters.
"U.S. consumers are not taking solely a Netflix, Amazon, or Hulu subscription. Many are shopping around and trialing new services to get access to interesting content unavailable through the big services," said Brett Sappington, Senior Director of Research, Parks Associates in a July statement.
He added, "Interest and viewership in OTT video services have led to an increase in total subscriptions since 2015, including an increase in households subscribing to two, three, or even four or more services. All this translates into more money being spent by consumers and more opportunity for niche content services to capture revenues."
The deals cable companies made are a turnaround compared to years of resistance to streaming.  Pay Tv providers viewed Netflix as a huge competitor since its inception in 2007. Some cable executes deemed the partnerships to combat cord-cutting, a voiding of cable subscriptions, while endorsing high-speed internet offers.
Pay tv, streaming service combinations started in 2013, with British company Virgin Media. U.S. partnerships launched in 2014, with small businesses like RCN Telecom Services.
For RCN patrons with TiVo TIVO.O boxes, Netflix was made available as an on-screen option in the menu. RCN customers not subscribed to Netflix could sign up for a free, one-month trial seamlessly through the on-screen menu.
U.S. cable leader Comcast Corp inserted Netflix into its Xfinity X1 box set last year. 30 percent of Xfinity customers logged into Netflix via an existing account or by signing up, the company told Reuters in May.
Several cable companies partnered with Netflix. A Netflix return mailer is pictured Jan.16 2007 in Miami, Florida  Photo: Getty Images
The beleaguered ride-hailing app Uber is searching for a new CEO after a string of controversies including a purported atmosphere of sexual harassment at the company.
Former CEO, Travis Kalanick, a controversial figure himself, stepped down, hoping a new leader would help steady the company’s leadership. While the company’s search included several high-profile female executives, it appears as if the company could not convince a woman to sign on, and their short list has been narrowed to three men according to a report by the Washington Post Friday.
Last month the company underwent a work place review by law firm Covington and Burling, who produced a 13-page report detailing how the company can improve. The company’s board unanimously accepted the recommendations of the report which included a stricter sexual harassment policy.
READ: Who Will Be Uber’s Next CEO? The Search Is On Following Travis Kalanick's Departure
“Uber should consider adopting a zero-tolerance policy for substantiated complaints of discrimination and harassment, without regard to whether an employee is a 'high performer' or a long-term employee,” read the report.
The toxic environment for women was spotlighted when a former employee wrote a blog post detailing how she was treated at Uber, prompting others to come forward.
Uber’s board was hoping to bring in a CEO that would help smooth over public relations for the company. Bringing in a woman would show that the company was earnestly trying to change its culture. Several high-profile women, however, apparently weren’t interested. Names associated with the search who have declined the role included Facebook’s chief operating officer, Sheryl Sandberg and Susan Wojcicki who heads YouTube, according to the Post. Sandberg was pushed as a choice by Uber’s board, especially Arianna Huffington. In her less than two years on the board, Huffington, former media mogul, has become an outspoken and influential member of the company’s leadership. Huffington was also rumored to be in consideration for the role.
Hewlett Packard CEO Meg Whitman publicly bowed out the search in a post on Twitter.
The three men on the short list to become head of Uber include Jeffrey Immelt who is leaving as the CEO of General Electric, according to the Financial Times.
READ: Here's How Many People Are Going Back On Uber App Now That Travis Kalanick Is Gone
The role is seen as not particularly desirable given the circumstances of it being a cleanup job, and the strong-headed Kalanick, 41, still remains a member of the board of the company he co-founded. According to the Times, Kalanick is involved in the search to find his replacement.
Uber has a number of leadership roles vacant that could see female hires. Last month Bozoma Saint John, a former Apple leader, joined Uber as a chief brand officer. More hires like Saint John could address the company’s concern that 78 percent of its leadership roles are held by men. That number comes from a diversity report the company released earlier this year.
A new footage showing an American Airlines flight bursting into flames last year in October surfaced online Friday. The American Airlines flight 383 was about to take off from Chicago's O'Hare Airport to Miami when the right side of the aircraft caught fire, causing emergency evacuations.

It is estimated that the flight lost more than 2,000 gallons of fuel at the time due to fire. The video shows the aircraft picking up speed as it rode down the runway at 147 mph, leaving a trail of black smoke behind, before it slowed down and came to a complete stop, according to the Telegraph. 
The flight was carrying 161 passengers at the time of the crash. It could have proved to be quite disastrous if the pilots had not taken the split decision of aborting plans of a take-off and follow emergency protocols to ensure the safety of everyone onboard. The crew too acted swiftly and deployed emergency chutes.
Read: American Airlines Crew Forced Passenger To Sit Next To Masturbating Man, Woman Claims
Two minutes and 21 seconds after the plane went up in flames and it came to a halt, all the passengers and the plane crew was back on the land, at a safe distance from the burning aircraft.
One of the flight attendants described the scene inside the plane as chaotic with the panicked passengers jumping over the seats in order to get to the exit, according to an NBC report. The crew member also said that even though she could see the flames cover the right wing of the plane, she failed in communicating the same to the captain, despite several attempts to do so.
An American Airlines flight caught fire in October 2016. In this photo, an American Airlines plane arrives at Jose Marti International Airport becoming the first Miami-Havana commercial flight in 50 years, coinciding with the beginning of the tributes to late Cuban leader Fidel Castro, in Havana, Nov. 28, 2016.  Photo: Getty Images/ YAMIL LAGE
It was reported that no one was hurt in the incident.
Read: American Airlines Flight Reportedly Delayed For Hours Over 'Urine Smell'
According to the Telegraph, the Boeing 767 blew a tire, part of which smashed through fuel lines to one of the engines, which caused the flight to be engulfed in flames in minutes. However, NBC Chicago puts the cause of the fire to a fan disk in the right engine flying apart.
"Immediately, passengers were at the door, pleading to get off the airplane," the NTSB said in a report, New York Daily News reported. "The 4L slide deployed, but was blowing towards the rear of the airplane because the engine was still running."
The video footage shows several fire engines rushing to the scene and trying to put the fire off. 
At the time, investigators looked at whether “dry bays” above the engines, which are designed solely to prevent an incident from metal shards from entering into fuel tanks in the wing, were faulty.
The fact that people rely on social networking websites for news updates rather than news channels was well known, but not well acknowledged, before the 2016 presidential election. Ever since being blamed for the presence of fake news on its feed, the social network seems to have taken cognizance of the potential of news for its functioning — its new “this week in your government” feature is its attempt at providing its users with local news.
The feature, currently in testing, was confirmed by a Facebook representative to Recode on Friday.
Read: Facebook Launching News Subscription Service Through Instant Articles
“We are testing a new civic engagement feature that shows people on Facebook the top posts from their elected officials. Our goal is to give people a simple way to learn about what’s happening at all levels of their government,” the representative said.
To use the feature, users will need to follow at least one local, state, or federal representative from their area. Facebook will know who your local representative is if you have signed up for the “Town Hall” feature, which connects users to their representatives. If you don’t do so, you will just receive state or federal news.
Facebook’s move might turn the tables on or at least give competition to recent consolidation effort by Sinclair Broadcasting, which will own many local TV news outlets, once its $3.9 billion purchase of Tribune Media goes through. Post the acquisition, Sinclair, which is friendly towards the right-wing forces, and particularly towards President Donald Trump, could end up delivering news to 70 percent of American households, according to the New York Magazine.
The fact that Facebook is taking up the task of delivering local news might challenge Sinclair’s hold on local news broadcasting, given that the social network is expected to cater to more than 200 million users in the country by 2022 according to Statista, which would comprise more than half the U.S. population, means that it has the potential of becoming a large source of local news for many people.
Facebook’s news might be sourced from the verified profiles of local politicians and would deliver news from them directly to the news feed of users. The company doesn’t seem likely to push news into feeds, rather its feature would work like a weekly update of what’s happening in local politics.
Read:  Fake News Sites: Facebook Rolls Out Related Links To Combat Problem
The political aspect of news and its effect on voters has been largely highlighted by the 2016 presidential election and Facebook is getting more and more involved in getting political content to users. Before the election, the social network even helped people register to vote. The Recode report cites numbers quoted by Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg who claimed 2 million users signed up to use the feature.
From being blamed for fake news to delivering actual news, Facebook seems to have come a long way.
A controversial ad spot for Kazakhstan travel company Chocotravel has raised more than a few eyebrows Thursday after it featured nude models posing as flight attendants. The ad, which received widespread condemnation across social media, has since gone viral.
The video was uploaded on several social media outlets and boasted “the service of buying air tickets without extra charges!” It opened with a close-up of a woman’s mouth, zooming out to reveal she was wearing a necktie and hat traditional to the outfits of stewardesses. Panning out even further, the women were revealed to be nude save their hats and scarves. The women then removed their hats to cover their lower abdomens as a search bar obscured their breasts.

“Chocotravel does not demand anything unnecessary from you,” Daily Mail on Thursday reported one woman in the video as saying.
Read: Gay Father Plans To Sue United Airlines After Being Accused Of Molesting Son On Flight
Nurken Rzaliyev, an employee of Chocotravel’s parent company Chocofamily, helped the video go viral after posting it on Facebook. Rzaliyev spoke with AdWeek about the video after it received widespread condemnation from individuals who called the video out for apparent sexism.
“There’s definitely no sexism,” Rzaliyev said. “Opinions were divided, but attention was made to the problem of high ticket prices.”
Perhaps flipping allegations of sexism back on the video’s critics, Chocotravel ticketing service director Nikolay Mazensev told AdWeek, “It shows no less than you’d see on the beach or by the pool. Do you attack girls in short skirts or swimsuits?”
As of Thursday, the video shared to Rzaliyev’s personal page was viewed nearly 90,000 times and received hundreds of comments, some of which were skeptical about the ad’s intention.
“Disgusting Advertising-candid sexism and … in our time it's already a sign of backwardness and limited! Ew, that's disgusting!” wrote user Medina Aldabergenova in comment translated from Russian. “[A]nd then some of the idiots are gonna be on the stewardesses, and they're gonna take it. That's crazy.”
Read: Woman Forced To Pee In Cup During United Airlines Flight, Was Humiliated By Attendant
“Terrible advertising! Advertising of the 90s,” wrote Azat Bestayev.
“No words except disgust. Desperate Publicity,” read another Russian translation from Sara Nayat. “Ew.. I don't want to mess with choco anymore. _ and the worst thing that's in our country.”

A second ad for Chocotravel that followed a similar formula was also surfaced online — this time with nude men. The video with men received significantly less criticism in its comments section.
Chocotravel did not immediately return International Business Times’ request for comment.
This article was originally published on the Motley Fool.
What happened
Shares of gunsmith Sturm, Ruger (NYSE:RGR) stock are down 10.4% as of 11:40 a.m. EDT, after clawing their way back out of a 13.3% hole earlier in the morning.
So what
Sturm, Ruger released its fiscal second-quarter 2017 earnings news yesterday evening after close of trading. The company reported earning $0.57 per share on sales of $131.9 million. That doesn't sound so bad without context, but here's the thing: Analysts had been looking for Ruger to report $1.11 per share in profits, so the company missed Wall Street's target by nearly 50%.
Even worse, sales were down 22% from last year's $167.9 million, and profits were off by more than 50% from the $1.22 a share that Ruger had earned by this time last year.
So cue the puns about an earnings "misfire."
Now what
Bad as this news was, it could get worse. Sturm, Ruger CEO Christopher J. Killoy blamed "unfavorable de-leveraging of fixed manufacturing costs due to the decline in production volumes" for the declines. In other words, it costs money to buy machines to make guns, and if those machines aren't run at full capacity, it's hard to make back the money spent on them -- that is, earn a profit. With sales down, Ruger wasn't able to operate at full capacity, hence it didn't earn as much profit.
Now here's where the news turns really bad for Ruger. According to the FBI's National Instant Criminal Background Check System, applications to purchase guns declined only 7% in the first half of this year, but Ruger says that its sales were down 22% in Q2, and its "sell-through" of guns from retailers to gun buyers declined 13%. What this seems to imply is that the gun market is bad, but Ruger's share of the gun market is even worse -- and it's losing market share to its rivals.
Accenting the point, Killoy noted that "many of our competitors" appear to be engaged in "aggressive price discounting and lucrative consumer rebates." In so doing, he glossed over the reputational damage done by a big recall of Sturm, Ruger's own Mark IV pistols -- an unforced error on the company's part. Regardless, the conclusion Ruger seems to be drawing is clear: If the company wants to stop shedding market share, it may be forced to cut prices and offer bigger rebates to match its competitors.
And that could be as bad news for Sturm, Ruger stock's future profits as the second quarter was already.
Rich Smith has no position in any stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
In an unusual stunt, a Boeing plane created an outline of itself in the skies over 22 states in America during a 4,000-mile test flight, inviting appreciation and amusement in equal measure.
After it's 18-hour flight, the pilots of the 787-8 Dreamliner — a long-haul, mid-size wide body, a twin-engine jet airliner — created an outline of their own aircraft that spanned the country from border to border.
"Rather than fly in random patterns, the test team got creative," Boeing said. "The nose of the Dreamliner is pointing at the Puget Sound region, home to Boeing Commercial Airplanes."

The flight-path illustration in the shape of the Dreamliner has wings stretching from Texas to Michigan. The tip of the tail touches Alabama, and the nose is over western Wyoming. 
The Dreamliner took off from Boeing’s Seattle headquarters in Washington D.C. on Tuesday, and aviation fanatics were able to track its unusual route as the flight path began to take shape using ‘Flightradar24.’ 
After taking off, the flight headed east toward Lake Superior and Marquette, Michigan. There it took a more than 180-degree turn that took it back over Beacon, Michigan. Then it changed course again over Paulding, Michigan and began flying southwest. It kept on that course until it was over southeastern South Dakota, where it took an abrupt right. After flying for a bit, it took two lefts and a right.
Eventually the flight path took the crew over 22 states, twisting and turning their way south before reversing and turning back toward the Canadian border.
Interestingly, this is not the first time Boeing pilots have gone creative in the sky during their flights. Pilots take advantage of waypoints and flight paths to spell out certain words or phrases and even draw pictures.
Earlier in February, a Boeing 737-8 MAX took off from the Seattle Boeing Field for a test flight in northwestern United States, and the pilots spelled out “MAX” during the nine-hour flight.
Read: What Happened To Flight MH370? Company Offers To Resume Search For Plane​
In 2012, after completing 19 hours of flying the 787 Dreamliner — the longest test flight till date — the test pilots displayed their creative streak to mitigate the tedium of the long flight.
According to reports, the flight plan included more than 140 waypoints, and the pilots not only spelled out "787" across the sky but also managed to add the Boeing logo to it. The sky art stretched from Washington to Iowa.
The words, phrases, and images can be viewed by aircraft manufacturers and by people online, using flight tracking programs such as Flightradar24 and FlightAware.
Read: How Much Does Air Force One, Presidential Aircraft, Cost To Operate?​
However, few estimates revealed that the 787-8’s flight dumped more than 3,00,000 kg of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere.
The aviation giant got mixed reactions to its stunt on Twitter, with some users gaping in awe and reminiscing about the time it had happened before and others reprimanding Boeing for wasting fuel and causing undue harm to the environment. 


Amazon is currently holding a multi-city job fair where it is expected to hire more than 50,000 people for retail jobs. But, in what seems to be a paradox, the company is also steadily employing robots at its plants and is developing technology which would one day take over these jobs, and replace humans at its warehouses.
The company, which has given retail giants such as Walmart and Kroger a run for their money is the fourth largest retail employer in the U.S. Walmart leads in terms of jobs, with 2.3 million employees on its rolls, Kroger comes in second with 443,000 employees and Home Depot is on third place with 406,000 staffers. Amazon currently employs 341,000 employees, but is looking to hire more, which could soon push it to number three.
Read :  Walmart Plans To Create 1.5 Million Jobs, Unveils Manufacturing Strategy
The company is also offering good incentives — a minimum wage of $14 along with health insurance, retirement savings plan and stock awards, which is why thousands of people are queuing up for positions at its fulfillment centers.
While the rate of hiring at Amazon is currently high, it may not always remain so. Brittain Ladd, a supply chain consultant who worked on Amazon’s push towards grocery retail, told Bloomberg in June — post the company’s acquisition of Whole Foods — that it is working on building automated warehouses for its grocery business. Not just that, Amazon has also revealed its initiatives such as Amazon Fresh which will use robots, app interfaces and automation to reduce labor costs.

While the company currently has a business model with a mix of robots and humans, the technology it is developing and the rate at which it is advancing such technologies could start obliterating human-dependent jobs soon. The company hosted a contest in May in which it offered a $250,000 reward to the team which makes the most advanced robot for its warehouses.
An Australian team won the contest with a custom-built Cartesian robot called Cartman which will pick up and stow away boxes.
Amazon is also working on artificial intelligence development and has invested $227.8 million in 1,178 AI jobs, according to Forbes.
Read:  AmazonFresh Pickup: Drive-In Grocery Store For Prime Members Announced
"Much of what we do with machine learning happens beneath the surface. Machine learning drives our algorithms for demand forecasting, product search ranking, product and deals recommendations, merchandising placements, fraud detection, translations, and much more. Though less visible, much of the impact of machine learning will be of this type – quietly but meaningfully improving core operations," Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos wrote in an annual shareholder letter last year.
Amazon’s basic focus lies in delivering retail items to customers as fast as possible and in pursuance of this endeavor, its reliance on robots and automation is expected to increase over time. It is developing lower cost structures and trying to lower prices at an unprecedented rate and will take everything in its path that accelerates this process. As the company moves forward in this direction, jobs might be obliterated rather than created.
Passengers at Nashville Airport in Tennessee were in for a smelly shock when hundreds of bags were sprayed with sewage-tainted water Thursday morning.
Bags belonging to about 380 Southwest Airlines passengers were contaminated due to an overflow in the woman’s bathroom near Southwest C-5 concourse. According to reports, this happened because someone had stuffed paper towels in the toilet.
The toilet water and sewage leaked through the floor of the bathroom to the conveyor belt on the floor below, soaking the luggage moving on it. 
Read: United Airlines Passenger Films Employees Mishandling Customers' Luggage
According to the Daily Mail, officials said around 200 bags that were checked with Southwest Airlines for an early morning flight may have been affected by the sewage leak.
Tom Jurkovich, vice president of communications at Nashville Airport, told News 2 they were not sure about the extent of the contamination, adding no person was exposed to the sewage water.
“You have to act like it is, as a practical matter,” Jurkovich said.
ABC News reported that Southwest Airlines said it had “identified which bags may have been affected” and were “proactively contacting customers, processing bags and reuniting customers with their luggage.”
The airline also said the contaminated bags were being sanitized, and replacement bags were being offered on a case-by-case basis, depending on the extent of the damage caused to the bags.



However, the airline said the leak did not cause any delays to scheduled flights. Some passengers also decided to travel without their soaked baggage.
One passenger on the flight, Kate Riley, told News 2, that some people did not know their luggage was missing until they went to claim their baggage at their destination in Florida.
“We were in Nashville, and they came on right before we boarded and said, ‘Oh, we’re having some issues with the luggage. Don’t worry. We’re getting all the bags on; there’s just an issue. But we’re just gonna load up and we’re gonna take off,'” she recalled officials from the airline as saying.
According to reports, this is not the first time that an incident like this has happened at the airport. There was another sewage leak June 1 but no luggage was contaminated at the time.
A similar incident was reported in 2010 at Heathrow Airport in London, when a waste pipe burst spraying about 240 bags with human waste. One witness said: “Gallons of raw sewage came spewing out. The stench was appalling.”
Read: Dead Dog Treated As 'Lost Luggage' By Chinese Airline, Owner Offered Money As Compensation
Many other instances of luggage being mishandled by airlines and airport authorities have been reported. United Airlines was recently criticized after a passenger filmed and shared a video July 27 of mishandling of luggage by the airline.
In 2010, US Airways lost $50,000 worth of belongings, kept in vintage bags, of fashion heir Giorgio Gucci.
According to the U.S. Department of Transportation, in May 2017 alone, there were 232 reports of luggage mishandling per 100,000 passengers.
Violent turbulence rocked an American Airlines flight traveling to the island nation of Trinidad and Tobago Wednesday night, injuring 30 passengers. According to local media, three passengers received further medical treatment at a health facility after the plane landed. 
"On Wednesday, August 2 at 9 p.m., American Airlines Flight 2713 contacted the ATC [Air Traffic Control] Tower to advise that they experienced severe turbulence while en route from Miami to Port-of-Spain and would require medical assistance upon arrival at the Piarco International Airport as there were injuries on board. The Authority and emergency response agencies arrived on site immediately to lend support," the Airport Authority of Trinidad and Tobago (AATT) said in a statement, adding that "three (3) persons were taken to the Arima Health Facility to seek further medical attention.”
Read: Lena Dunham Slams American Airlines For Transphobic Talk
An audio recording acquired by the T&T Guardian revealed that the pilot of the plane informed Air Traffic Control that they were trying to stabilize the aircraft for landing. “Medical assistance is waiting on your arrival,” the ATC told the pilot.
The plane, which flew from Miami, was forced to make an emergency landing at the Piarco International Airport.
One of the passengers spoke to a local media outlet, saying she was left traumatized following the incident.
“It was like a nightmare. I remembered going into the washroom and thinking to myself ‘Please Jesus, I don’t want to die on this plane’,” she told T&T Guardian.
The passenger, who identified herself as Stacy Mohammed, was traveling with her 15-year-old son Antonio after a ten-day vacation in the U.S. Virgin Islands, St Croix. According to the 35-year-old, the incident occurred two-and-a-half hours into the flight.
Mohammed shared with the local media the ordeal of other passengers, saying: “Screams filled the cabin. I looked at my son to see if he was okay. He had hit his head very hard on the right side and above the eye, which up to now remains swollen.”
“The flight from St Croix was smooth, same airline but was very good. When we left Miami at 5.36 p.m., very shortly after takeoff I knew something was wrong. I was very heavy. It was a rough flight and had a lot of drops due to the air pockets caused by the turbulence,” Mohammed said, giving details about the flight. 
“We had about one hour again to reach Piarco so I decided to go to the wash room. While in there I had to hold on for my life I felt like. I prayed because I did not want to die in there. When I came out I had to almost creep back to my seat. When I got there, a few minutes after my son and I flew off our seats as there was a big drop,” she added.
Mohammed, who received injuries to the head, said an elderly couple just behind her was more seriously injured due to the turbulence. “One of the man’s tooth broke and his wife hit her head.”
According to Mohammed, all passengers had seatbelts on as the crew members had warned them of severe turbulence.
Read: United Airlines Leaves Canadian Teenager Behind In Connecticut
Mohammed expressed her disappointment about the airline not contacting them despite taking their information.
"All our information was taken by the airline crew members but up to now, I have not received a phone call from them to find out how my son and I are doing. Very disappointing. I intend to go and seek further medical treatment for myself and my son by a private doctor,” she said.
A man was charged Thursday for allegedly groping a teenage girl seated next to him on United Airlines Flight UA1695, according to Fox News. The teenager was reportedly asleep during the incident, but she immediately notified the flight crew of the man's behavior and was relocated to a new seat. 
The teenage girl alerted her parents to the situation upon landing at the Newark Liberty International Airport in New Jersey. However, United Airlines reportedly let the man walk free following the incident. The FBI was then contacted by the teenager's mother, but not United Airlines.
TRENDING: United Airlines Leaves Canadian Teenager Behind In Connecticut
A representative of United Airlines issued a statement Thursday to International Business Times on the incident with the unaccompanied minor. "The safety and security of our customers is our top priority. We take these allegations seriously and continue to work closely with the proper authorities as part of their review," the airline said.
From a lineup of photos presented by the FBI, the girl was able to identify her assaulter as 28-year-old Vijakumar Krishnappa. Krishnappa was arrested for his alleged misconduct. Alongside his $50,000 bond upon release, Krishnappa was also informed that he is forbidden from attempting to contact the teenage girl.
The Consumerist obtained a federal complaint that provided details of the man's alleged actions during the July 23 the incident. The complaint claimed that Krishnappa removed his hand from her thigh when the girl woke up. When she fell asleep again, the complaint stated that the man proceeded to "put his hand on her groin and inner thigh, and began rubbing the Victim through her clothing." He also allegedly attempted to slide his hand down her pants.
Johnny McCray, the teenager's lawyer, spoke with ABC News Wednesday about how his client's situation was handled by United Airlines employees on flight UA1695. "She was horrified. It's affected her ability to sleep and concentrate," he said. He also believes the airlines' decision to improperly handle the situation is in violation of the company's policy, which instructs employees to alert the authorities to all incidents of misconduct.
Sexual assaults occur often on airline flights, but they aren't heavily reported on by news media. However, The Huffington Post reported in 2016 that "sexual assault between passengers happens perhaps more frequently than you think, sometimes to children." The digital news publication added that flight attendants "probably won’t make a big show about it" upon being alerted. ​
SEE ALSO: Lena Dunham Slams American Airlines For Transphobic Talk
United Airlines claims to boast a strict unaccompanied minor program, which reportedly prevented a Canadian teenager from boarding a flight home from a Connecticut airport Tuesday. The airline claims in the program's policy that it's designed to provide parents with "peace of mind" as their children fly solo, which requires parents to pay forward an additional $150 for each direction traveled to "cover the extra handling required when children travel alone." A male flight attendant who was first alerted to the girl's incident reportedly said "that's not cool" before finding her new seating arrangements, according to ABC News.
According to Condé Nast Traveler, sexual assault isn't within federal law enforcement's jurisdiction. Therefore, complaints are often handled by the FBI because it reportedly has jurisdiction over crimes committed in U.S. airspace. An October 2016 report from the New York Times cited an incident in the 1980s involving President Donald Trump, who allegedly groped a woman in-flight. Trump denied all allegations.
United Airlines, pictured January 17, 2013, relocated a teenage girl's seat after allegedly being groped by another passenger.  Photo: Getty Images
Follow me on Twitter @dory_jackson
Wisconsin voters can express their views of the state’s new deal to bring in technology manufacturer Foxconn at a public hearing Thursday, but critics of the deal have already weighed in — with objections raised by analysts on both sides of the political spectrum.
The Foxconn deal exempts the company from environmental protections and gives it  $3 billion in tax breaks. Liberals have spoken out against what they see as corporate handouts, while conservatives objected to the government interfering in the market. And observers on both sides drew attention to the apparent hypocrisy of self-professed free-market ideologues such as Speaker of the House Paul Ryan and Gov. Scott Walker.
Read: Foxconn Deal Lets Company Ignore Wisconsin Environmental Protection Laws
“We can identify numerous Republicans, including those who were running for the presidency, as making heavy use of government subsidies to try to attract companies,” Nathan Jensen, a professor of government at the University of Texas, told International Business Times.
“Chris Christie in New Jersey offered some of the biggest incentive offers to companies. Jeb Bush in Florida, Rick Perry in Texas, and Scott Walker in Wisconsin have done the same. Walker has also had numerous scandals in the handling of economic development incentives. So the free-market rhetoric of these politicians definitely contrasts with their selective use of incentives,” Jensen said.
Gov. Walker in particular has been known for his strong free-market stances, having run his 2015 presidential campaign on a platform of smaller government and fewer regulations. In 2011, he signed an executive order creating an “Office of Free Market Healthcare” in Wisconsin.
“Economic development incentives are often cast as corporate welfare — a criticism from the left — and government picking winners and losers — a criticism from the right,” said Jensen. “Practically, economic development incentives are targeting scarce government resources to a very small number of firms. This means a company like Foxconn receives a sweetheart deal but this leaves Wisconsin taxpayers — individuals and companies — footing the tab.”
The $3 billion Foxconn deal includes a $1.5 billion tax credit for Foxconn’s planned $10 billion investment in Wisconsin. Another $1.35 billion in tax credits will be delivered in exchange for Foxconn’s planned 13,000 jobs. The package also includes a $150 million sales tax break for purchasing supplies and materials related Foxconn’s constructing facilities in the state.
“This is an attempt to let at least one sector of the economy escape from the full burden of sales taxes and some environmental regulations,” Thomas Bell, a law professor at Chapman University who works on high-tech regulatory and economic issues, told IBT. “There is a growing trend of governments creating special jurisdictions. But the more up-to-date approach is to let markets decide.”
Bell is an affiliate of the conservative Foundation for Economic Freedom, which is a member of the Koch brothers-funded State Policy Network. He previously worked at the libertarian, free-market Cato Institute. Bell took exception to the fact that the “Electronics and Information Technology Manufacturing Zone” created by Governor Walker’s bill is limited to a specific industry.
“The future of special jurisdictions is zones that let markets decide where to develop, what to put in them, and are allowed to regulate themselves — subject to oversight from government officials,” said Bell.
On the left, critics say the Foxconn deal is unnecessary corporate welfare. Kenneth Thomas, a professor of political science at the University of Missouri, argues that Foxconn wanted to come to the U.S. anyway, thanks to fears of protectionist policies from the new administration. Given that President Donald Trump has pulled out of the Trans-Pacific Partnership negotiations and is seeking to renegotiate NAFTA, it makes sense that Foxconn would want a domestic operation within one of its most lucrative consumer markets.
(And in fact, protectionism has already come to Wisconsin in one specific form, as Trump instituted a 20 percent tariff on Canadian lumber in April.)
“It looks like Foxconn knew where they wanted to go from the get-go. So this deal is a windfall for them,” said Thomas, whose book “Investment Incentives and the Global Competition for Capital” focuses on these tax incentive deals. “Wisconsin already had reasonably good bargaining power because of Foxconn’s desire to be in the U.S. and in Paul Ryan’s district.”
In Thomas’ view, Foxconn wanted to be in the country, but states were left to compete over the precise location. That meant that Foxconn could play states against one another in order to receive the best deal. Thomas would rather see more regulation on these deals — not less, as advocated by Bell and the right. By having caps set on state subsidies at the federal level, states would not have to bid blind against each other without limits. The European Union has managed to put together such regulations across independent nations, so Thomas believes that similar rules should be possible in the U.S.
“Under EU regulations, every region has a specific maximum amount of subsidy they can give,” said Thomas. “$3 billion would be an impossible subsidy in the EU by a long shot. Their regulations put substantial limits on what even the poorest areas can offer — the largest subsidy possible would be approximately $1 billion.”
In the past, Walker has used economic development to benefit his political donors and circumvent environmental regulations. In 2012, the mining company Gogebic Taconite donated $700,000 to a pro-Walker anonymous-donor group. Walker then advanced legislation to loosen environmental regulations related specifically to iron mining — Gogebic Taconite’s industry.
The jobs promised by the Wisconsin Economic Development Corporation, which was created by Walker, have not always materialized. In 2012, retailer Kohl’s was awarded $62.5 million in state tax subsidies for 3,000 jobs, yet only 473 jobs appeared. And some of the jobs were not full-time jobs paying $30,000 a year, so they did not qualify as jobs created under the terms of tax credits.
North Korea’s missile and nuclear programs continue to draw the ire of President Donald Trump and the international community. Harsh economic sanctions are imposed on the country, so where is it making its money? A North Korean defector said a large way is smuggling.
Ri Jong Ho used to work in the high levels of the North Korean government helping the country bring in foreign income until gruesome executions made him want to leave Kim Jong Un’s regime.
READ: US Launches Intercontinental Ballistic Missile Off California Amid North Korea Nuclear Threat
Ri said he decided to leave in 2013 when Kim executed his own uncle with an anti-aircraft gun, according to CNN Thursday. Ri called it “a cruel and crude method of execution.”
“It was not just high-level officers, officials, but their families, their children, their followers,” Ri said to CNN. “It was not just once or twice a year — it was ongoing throughout the year, thousands of people being executed or purged.”
Ri worked in a secretive department of the North Korean government called “Office 39,” which creates a slush fund for its leadership through foreign income.
While Ri said none of the operations the office does are illicit, but the U.S. government and others disagree.
Russian cyber security firm Kaspersky released a report in April saying North Korea was linked to bank hacks in 18 countries. The stolen money could be helping fund North Korea’s missile and nuclear advances. This month, North Korea test-launched two intercontinental ballistic missiles (ICBM), the longest range missiles the country had ever tested. The Union of Concerned Scientists claimed North Korea has the ability to hit many major American cities with their ICBMs.
In 2013, the Drug Enforcement Agency broke up a drug ring in Thailand, with connections to North Korea. The dealers were trafficking extremely pure methamphetamines believed to have been made in North Korea.
Smuggling is another boon for bringing cash into North Korea.
“Smuggling is conducted by any and every means you could imagine. Mostly larger items are done using ships, for example by filing a cargo list ... where what's written … is different from what is really being shipped,” said Ri to CNN. “On the open sea, the Yellow Sea, there are hundreds of fishing boats, both from China and North Korea, and all the smuggling is done by these so-called fishing boats.”
Despite sanctions levied by the U.S. and the United Nations (U.N.) against North Korea, Ri said the government works hard to side step them by actions like changing North Korean company’s names after they’ve been sanctioned.
READ: Exploited North Korean Workers Sent To Russia
Ri explained the best way to go after North Korea is secondary sanctions, especially on Chinese businesses. China is North Korea’s biggest trading partner and accounts for around 85 percent of North Korean imports, according to the U.N. in 2015.
China has made some moves on its own, such as curbing coal purchasing from North Korea in response to Un’s aggressive missile testing, but Trump has grown increasingly impatient with China hoping that they would fix the problem for him. 
An Air Canada flight was forced to turn back mid-flight Thursday after a Canadian passenger violently assaulted a flight attendant. John Svab, 57, of Hamilton, Ontario, reportedly threatened and attacked the flight attendant, who had to be taken to a hospital for treatment.
Police said they received a call about a violent passenger on board the Budapest-bound flight at about 12:30 a.m. Thursday. When it landed back at Toronto’s Pearson International Airport, police arrested Svab.
Read: Sunbathers Killed As Plane Makes Emergency Landing On Crowded Beach
“When we attended the scene, we learned that the passenger was unruly and he has since been arrested and taken into custody for assault,” Peel police constable Mark Fischer told the Toronto Star.

Svab was charged with making death threats, aggravated assault and endangering an aircraft while in flight. He was scheduled to appear in a Brampton, Ontario, court Thursday.
“My understanding is that the unruly passenger was possibly drinking,” Fischer said.
Police constable Bancroft Wright said Svab hurt the flight attendant after he became disruptive.
“There was an altercation when he was being controlled,” Wright told Canada’s Global News. “During that altercation one of the stewardesses was injured.”
Police provided no additional details about how the altercation began or what exactly ensued on board, though they noted there was an investigation opened into the incident. The 267 passengers on the flight were booked onto another jet scheduled to depart Thursday.
The altercation aboard the Air Canada plane was not the first time in recent days that a passenger has disrupted a flight. A Spirit Airlines flight taking off from Las Vegas in late July was delayed after a passenger decided to strip naked and chat up a flight attendant.
Read: Plane Catches Fire, Passengers Evacuated At Denver International Airport
“He removed his clothes and then approached a flight attendant,” McCarren International Airport spokesman Chris Jones told reporters at the time. “Metro officers were called and he was given medical attention.”
The flight was delayed by a half hour as police removed the passenger and investigated the incident. It remained unclear, in that instance, if the passenger was charged for his actions on the flight, though police noted he received medical treatment after being removed from the plane.
Firefighters stand in front of an Air Canada plane that slid off the runway at Halifax Stanfield Airport in Nova Scotia, Mar. 20, 2015. Photo: Reuters
An Australian TV presenter took to her Twitter account Tuesday to reveal that a Qatar Airways worker has been stalking her for months. Tali Shine said that the worker took her personal information "illegally" when she flew with the airline a few months ago and has been stalking her since.
Shine slammed Qatar Airways for not responding to repeated complaints regarding the incident, forcing her to take her plight to social media.
Read: Lena Dunham Slams American Airlines For Transphobic Talk
"Flew @qatarairways & the staff member took my personal info & stalking me. Qatar don't respond to complaints-any one else experienced this?" she wrote on Twitter. The airline responded to the tweet, saying that they are looking into the matter. 
"Sending now, also dates of MANY unanswered complaints made & copies of msgs ur staff member sent aftr illegally obtaining my personal details," she replied.
The Sydney-born journalist also opened up to 9Honey about the incident saying that it's been nearly five months since the worker started disturbing her.
"It’s such a crazy situation," she said. "I booked my flight directly through Qatar Airlines' online site and then called the airline to change my journey home to a few days later."
"This man began sending me WhatsApp messages, he told me that he came across my picture accidentally and noticed that I had nice eyes," she added. "I blocked the number then started getting hourly phone calls from the same person."
Shine told the publication that she has never responded to the stalker's messages.
"I never replied to any message and blocked the number each time,” she explains. "When he kept calling after the flight I said, 'please stop calling me, this is illegal and you should not have taken my details, if you don’t stop I will report you’."
"I hoped that if I just continued to ignore him and kept blocking his requests to follow me on social media, it would stop. However, months later I’m still getting phone calls throughout the night. Each time I block the number, I then get more calls on another medium — it was Viber a few nights ago. He also calls me from private numbers,” she added.
Qatar Airways responded to the incident in an emailed to statement to 9Honey saying: "At Qatar Airways, we are committed to maintaining the highest level of privacy and confidentiality regarding our customer's data. Confidential and private information about Qatar Airways customers are not to be used for any purpose other than that for which it was gathered and intended. We take Ms Shine's feedback seriously and we are investigating in full."
Read: Emirates Airline Caught Pouring Unused Champagne Back Into Bottle
Shine said that when she did not receive any response from Qatar Airways, she called Qantas — a partner airline to Qatar.
"Qantas put me through to a Qatar number but despite assurances that someone would call me back. They never did,” she added.
Tesla CEO Elon Musk revealed plans for setting up a Gigafactory in China in the company's second-quarter earnings call Wednesday.
“We're thinking hard about, where do we put Gigafactories three, four, five and six? We expect to keep the majority of our production in the U.S., but it's, obviously, going to make sense to establish a Gigafactory in China and Europe to serve the markets there, because it's not [possible] to build cars in California and truck them halfway around the world, particularly when you're trying to make things as affordable as possible – that really hurts,” Musk said during the call.
Tesla's first Gigafactory was built at an estimated cost of $5 billion. While Tesla is setting up Gigafactories across the U.S., including one in Buffalo, New York, its plan of setting up one in China is a new development. The company has already announced plans of setting up a Gigafactory in Europe in November.
Read: Tesla Motors (TSLA) Gigafactory: Battery Cell Production Starts, But Will It Ramp Up Fast Enough?
“We really want to make our cars as affordable as possible. And so that does require some amount of local market production, particularly for the mass market vehicles in order to make it as accessible as possible,” Musk further said during the call.
While there are no set plans for a Gigafactoryin China, Musk wants to build one eventually. The decision makes sense since the company’s offerings such as the Model 3 are in high demand in the country.
According to Tesla’s Asia Pacific head, Ren Yuxiang, Model 3 reservations in China are higher than that of any other country except the U.S.
Tesla would be able to avoid significant import duties for Chinese manufacturers which could drive the price of its cars and act as a deterrent for prospective customers, especially since Musk claims that the company wants to keep its cars “as affordable as possible.”
But it might not be easy for Tesla to set up a China plant since the market requires foreign companies to have a local manufacturing partner. It means Tesla will have to share its technology with a Chinese company.
However, this has been already done by companies such as Apple whose biggest manufacturers for its smartphones remain Chinese companies such as Foxconn, Pegatron, and Wistron.
Initially, Tesla had stated it would be finalizing locations for Gigafactories 3, 4 and 5 by the end of the year in its 2016 earnings report released in February.
Read: Tesla (TSLA) Narrows Quarterly Loss, Announces Plan To Set Up 3 More Gigafactories
“Installation of Model 3 manufacturing equipment is underway in Fremont and at Gigafactory 1, where in January we began production of battery cells for energy storage products, which have the same form-factor as the cells that will be used in Model 3. Later this year, we expect to finalize locations for Gigafactories 3, 4 and possibly 5 (Gigafactory 2 is the Tesla solar plant in New York),” the company had stated.
Tesla stocks closed at an 8 percent high of $351 per share on Wednesday since the company beat expectations with revenue of $2.79 billion, in comparison to an expected $2.51 billion, according to Reuters.
Lena Dunham called out to American Airlines after she overheard two flight attendants "having a transphobic talk." On Tuesday, the "Girls" star took to Twitter to share her ordeal at the JFK International Airport after her flight was delayed.
Dunham shared a private chat message with American Airlines where she informed the company about two of its attendants talking about transgender kids and the reason why they would not accept one. The airline later responded to Dunham's complaint, asking for further details about the incident.
Read: United Airlines Leaves Canadian Teenager Behind In Connecticut


Before sharing the messages exchanged with the airline, Dunham tweeted: "Not gonna call out the airline who delayed cuz shit happens BUT I did just overhear 2 @AmericanAir attendants having a transphobic talk."
In another tweet, she wrote: "At this moment in history we should be teaching our employees about love and inclusivity @AmericanAir. That was the worst part of this night."
Earlier, Dunham expressed her frustration when American Airlines made their passengers wait for about an hour after boarding and then asked them to get off the airplane.

International Business Times reached out to American Airlines for further comments on the incident but has not received any response so far.
Dunham's experience at the JFK airport was not favorable and the star made it clear in her tweets Tuesday.
"If you wanna know somebody's truth, watch them reckon with a flight that's been delayed 4 hours," she wrote in a tweet, while another read: "My airport behavior, I must concede, has been outwardly polite but extremely self-destructive (food wise)."
Read: Ann Coulter Slams Delta Airlines, Says CEO Should Fly Jet Blue
Last month, President Donald Trump took the nation by storm when he announced the U.S. military would no longer “accept or allow” transgender people.
“After consultation with my Generals and military experts, please be advised that the United States Government will not accept or allow Transgender individuals to serve in any capacity in the U.S. Military. Our military must be focused on decisive and overwhelming victory and cannot be burdened with the tremendous medical costs and disruption that transgender in the military would entail. Thank you,” the president wrote in three tweets early Wednesday.
Most recently, American Airlines came under fire after a woman was forced to sit next to a man who masturbated while she slept during a flight to Paris. The incident was reported on July 10 when Chloe King of New York shared details about the incident in a post for Medium entitled “We’ve Now Reached Creeping Altitude.”
“I woke up right before landing to have a flight attendant call me to the back of the plane and inform me that the man sitting next to me had been masturbating beside me while I slept,” she wrote at the time. “The woman to his other side saw it and happened and asked to be moved and the French police had been notified to arrest the man upon landing – they just wanted to let me know.”
Microsoft has made a huge change in its business strategy as revealed by its Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) filing on Wednesday. The company is moving away from Windows Mobile towards a new domain - artificial intelligence (AI), which might help it create more diverse corporate offerings, especially for businesses, which are working on integrating AI into their everyday functioning.
In its SEC filing, the company referenced AI six times in comparison to zero times in previous filings, indicating its strong AI focus. The company’s decision can be seen to make business sense. Apart from creating consumer technology, Microsoft sells its products and services to many corporate users. The company’s decision to focus on AI is reflective of the fact that businesses are slowly and steadily adopting AI to optimize their processes and make their output more efficient.
Read: Microsoft Adding AI-Powered Search Feature For Windows 10 Photos App
“Our strategic vision is to compete and grow by building best-in-class platforms and productivity services for an intelligent cloud and an intelligent edge infused with AI,” Microsoft’s corporate vision statement, a part of its filing, states. A noticeable change from what it said in its filing for the past few years — “Our strategic vision is to compete and grow as a productivity and platform company for the mobile-first and cloud-first world.”
This strategy shows Microsoft is finally shutting down its mobile business after many years of trying to compete with Apple and Google. Microsoft has chosen to walk away from the mobile business it so aggressively invested in just a few years ago. The company had actually acquired the rights to Nokia, which was once the world’s leading phone brand and tried to popularize its phone software among users with Nokia hardware.
The company failed to prop up Windows against strong competitors, such as Google and Apple, and ultimately decided to cut its losses. It now seems to be more focused on its services business and on ingratiating artificial intelligence with that business.
AI is gaining in enterprise functioning going from being just a basic corporate tool to increased automation. According to Price Waterhouse Cooper, 72 percent of business decision makers believe that AI can provide them with a definite business advantage.
AI based solutions can cut down on menial tasks and provide consistent results and quality and more importantly round the clock functioning in fields such as quality assurance and software testing. That being said, AI in a sense is in its nascent stages and needs much development before large-scale adoption and expansion, which is why Microsoft's move at this point in time to create a primary focus on AI seems like a smart business decision.
The company has established a formal AI and research group, which will focus on AI development and research efforts “spanning infrastructure, services, application and search.”
Read: Microsoft Developing Artificial Intelligence Processor For HoloLens 2
It will also be working on infusing AI in many of its software offerings such as Microsoft Office. This decision is projected to give Microsoft an advantage in integrating its products in future business applications.
Other companies such as Google and Facebook have been developing their own AI, but while these companies’ efforts seem geared at essentially improving their current offerings such as search, Google assistant and Facebook feed, Microsoft AI efforts might benefit a large number of corporate users who use its products and services.
United Airlines has come under fire again after leaving a Canadian teenager behind at an airport in Connecticut, according to CTV News Vancouver. The 15-year-old boy, who attempted to board a flight home to Vancouver International Airport (YVR) on Tuesday, was reportedly left stranded at Bradley International Airport near Hartford for almost 10 hours. 
A United employee informed Victor Shmulevich that the airline doesn't allow unaccompanied minors to board its flights. The teen's parents made alternative plans for him to return to Vancouver, British Columbia. 
Read: Canada Will Punish Airlines For Treating Passengers Badly
Shmulevich's father arranged for him to board a flight with Air Canada, which allowed him to fly to Toronto and then to Vancouver, according to Vancouver news outlet Georgia Straight. Shmulevich reportedly arrived 20 hours after the United Airlines incident. 
Shmulevich's father told CTV News Vancouver "what's most concerning is that [United] didn’t actually try to assist us. They said, 'Sorry, you've got to deal with this by yourself. We can't do anything."
A media representative from United Airlines issued a statement Tuesday to International Business Times about the incident. The airline explained its strict policy against boarding unaccompanied minors, however, United also plans to investigate how Shmulevich was able to obtain a ticket for a flight that wasn't included in its unaccompanied minor program.
"United does not allow unaccompanied minors to travel on itineraries with connecting flights, which was the case in this instance," the representative wrote. "We are looking into the booking process further to determine how this passenger was able to purchase a ticket for a flight that was not part of our unaccompanied minor program."
"The safety of our passengers is our number 1 priority. However, we were not made aware of this situation by the passenger or the airlines. We are looking into this issue and will be reviewing appropriate protocols with the airlines," Kevin Dillon, executive director of the Connecticut Airport Authority, told IBT in an email.
Read: Teen Arrested After Jumping Off Copa Airlines Flight, Other Similar Incidents
The Los Angeles Times reported on changes made to United Airlines unaccompanied minor program in 2014. United initially required children between ages 5 and 12 years to participate in the program, but it was modified to include minors up to the age 15. United spokesperson Charles Hobart told the Times, "we made a thoughtful review of the policy and decided that this change will provide the best possible care for these travelers."
Minors traveling solo with United will be forced to pay an additional $150 alongside the original ticket, according to the airline's website. The fee is required for each direction of travel in domestic and international territories. United collects the additional fee for the "extra handling" needed to care for children traveling alone.
United's unaccompanied minor policy claims to "understand just how important it is to provide a safe, comfortable, fun experience for children who are flying alone." The airline believes its unaccompanied minor service provides "peace of mind" for parents. Benefits to enhance the unaccompanied child's experience include early boarding, a seat towards the front of the aircraft and a complimentary food item.
United Airlines isn't the only company to enforce strict unaccompanied minor regulations. Southwest Airlines requires children ages 5 to 11 to enroll in its unaccompanied minor program, which charges $50 fee in each direction. Delta Air Lines also has an unaccompanied minor program for children ages 5 to 14, which requires a $150 fee. Delta's program is optional for children between 15 to 17. 
United Airlines plane, pictured January 9, 2013 at Los Angeles International Airport (LAX), United Airlines left a teen stranded at an airport in Connecticut for 10 hours. Photo: Getty Images
Follow me on Twitter @dory_jackson
The $50 billion wedding industry is embracing a new trend courtesy of Universal Life Church (ULC), which has allowed individuals across the United States to become ordained ministers in a matter of minutes through its website. 
The New York Times' wedding section has increasingly reported on weddings that were officiated by a family member or friend who was legally ordained online through ULC. While the ordination is free, a small fee is required for would-be ministers to obtain official documentation.
But a few questions arise from the rising trend of ULC-officiated weddings: How does ULC profit off of this practice? And why, specifically, has this millennial wedding trend become so popular? 
Read: Stephen Curry, Wife Ayesha Celebrate 6th Wedding Anniversary With Sweet Instagram Posts
ULC doesn't hide the fact that the organization has expenses to cover, and obtaining official documentation comes at a small price. The company claimed in 2011 that "charging '$20 for a piece of paper' isn't a choice, it's a necessity; we would be forced to shut down and thousands of wedding ceremonies would not be able to be performed by our ministers as a result.'"
"Conventional churches like the Catholic church have the benefit of being able to pass around a collection plate and take in tax-free donations from their members; the ULC does not," ULC added. "The cost of the documentation we send out both reflects the cost to make and ship said documentation AND the other costs of staying in operation which we do not earn revenue from."
It costs $30 at most at present for ULC ministers to obtain the necessary essentials to officiate weddings, which includes an officiant package and a bundle of documents. Radio host Brian Noonan of Chicago's WGN Radio received his ordination in July while on-air — it only took him a few minutes to complete. He cited the various options and packages available in ULC's Minister Store available for prices that range from $8.99 to $75.99. 
A representative of ULC issued a statement Thursday to International Business Times regarding the reason behind the company's growth.
"The growth has been astounding even to us," ULC told IBT. "When individuals become ordained we don't solicit information from them asking why specifically they chose to get ordained, but certainly the ability to perform weddings for loved ones is a huge draw for people considering ordination."
ULC added, "We often hear nowadays that we are living in "Generation DIY", where people are striving to solve their own problems and answer their own questions, and that DIY spirit indeed seems to be stretching as far as religion and marriage. The ULC allows individuals to build their own faith and conduct their ceremonies to best fit their individual lives."
According to wedding news publication The Knot, "lots of couples are choosing to have a close friend or relative officiate their nuptials." The publication adds, "your officiant should be someone you care about (and who cares about you), and whom you trust to make your ceremony special." The Knot also cites ULC as a credible organization from which to obtain ordain credentials. 
Praise 107.9, a Philadelphia-based Radio One affiliate, wrote an article about this growing practice. The radio station found that engaged couples often turn to family or friends to officiate their weddings because it's "more personal, relatively stress-free and cheaper."
Read: Jenelle Evans And David Eason Taste Wedding Cakes For Their Big Day
ULC is a non-denominational online ministry. Ministers ordained through the internet church will be able to perform baptisms and perform funerals, among other services. The license will also allow ordained ministers the ability to legally start their own organization. However, ULC claims on its website that most people utilize the company to legally perform weddings.  
"Most of the people who come to us to get ordained online do so merely so that they can gain the privilege of performing legally-recognized wedding ceremonies," ULC wrote in a blog post on its website. "Being a professional minister might require years of study at a theological college, but becoming a wedding officiant should absolutely not."
Celebrities like Conan O'Brien, Sir Ian McKellen, Kathy Griffin and Wendy Williams are among a list of stars that have been ordained through ULC. O'Brien received his ordained license in 2011, three months after same-sex marriage was legalized in New York, according to  The Hollywood Reporter. He officiated his first same-sex wedding on "Conan" for the show's costume designer Scott Cronick and his partner David Gorshein.
A couple exchanging rings, pictured February 14, 2014 in West Palm Beach, Florida, Universal Life Church is a business that allows people to obtain ordain credentials in a matter of minutes. Photo: Getty Images
Follow me on Twitter @dory_jackson
As the Democratic Governors Association raised $2.28 million from drug companies and health insurers in the first half of 2017, the group’s chairman, Connecticut Gov. Dan Malloy, echoed a health care lobbyist’s criticism of a landmark bill to combat drug price-gouging, according to documents obtained by International Business Times. The documents detail how Malloy’s insurance department, led by a former Cigna lobbyist, tried to water down the bipartisan initiative as it moved through the state’s legislature.
This spring, while Washington lawmakers wrestled over national health care policy, Connecticut lawmakers worked to join  several  other  states that have passed legislation to curb an alleged drug price fraud scheme at the heart of  multiple class-action lawsuits across the country. The suits accuse insurance firms and their pharmacy benefit managers, or PBMs, of attaching arbitrary and fraudulent premiums to consumers’ prescription drug prices, then pocketing the cost difference — all while using “gag orders” to keep pharmacies from informing customers about lower-priced options.
Read:   Democratic Power Players Help Pharmaceutical Industry In Connecticut Battle
Senators in Connecticut, where insurer Cigna Corp. faces its own class-action  lawsuit over the alleged practice, pushed forward a  bill to keep insurers and PBMs from imposing gag orders on pharmacies. Although the state is not alone in battling the issue, the legislation in Connecticut was seen as a particularly significant because it is the nation’s insurance industry capital, with  more insurance jobs per capita than any other state. The legislation was also a bipartisan effort, led by Democratic Senate President Pro Tempore Martin Looney and Republican Senator Len Fasano.
As the bill moved ahead, and as Malloy’s DGA was raising health care industry money, Keith Stover, a lobbyist for the Connecticut Association of Health Plans, contacted Malloy’s insurance department to meet, to discuss “health insurance-related bills” involving “health care payment and delivery systems” and, ultimately, to make them more industry-friendly.
“I know we’ve spoken with each of you separately regarding the amendments filed last week by Senators Looney and Fasano on their health insurance-related bills,” wrote Stover in a May 9 email obtained by IBT. “It probably goes without saying that the amendments are fundamentally non-starters: highly disruptive, backwards, and likely to exacerbate Connecticut’s status as an outlier. Bad stuff, and frankly it is driving the companies crazy that we end up in annual conversations with legislative staff members who are fundamentally adverse [sic] to the insurance industry and whose ideas are so monumentally out of step with anything resembling the modern health care payment and delivery systems.”
Stover did not respond when asked by IBT which bills or amendments he was referring to, and spokespeople for Looney and Fasano did not immediately respond to requests for confirmation of the bills or amendments referenced.
Stover added in the email that he was “writing to ask for a meeting, as soon as we can, to review the state of play in the Senate and see where we can work together.”
Two weeks later, Malloy  sent a letter to Looney and Fasano that included the same criticism, asserting that the bill, SB 445, took an “unnecessarily antagonistic approach toward Connecticut’s insurance industry.”
“As state leaders, we must take much greater care in considering the impact our actions have on Connecticut insurers, the people they employ and the customers they serve,” he wrote. Certain parts of the bill, he added, included “problematic language… that undercuts consumers and is unnecessarily burdensome for employers.”
Those employers gave a substantial amount of money to the DGA so far this year. A full $1.05 million in donations collectively came from the insurance companies Cigna, Anthem Inc., Molina Healthcare and Aetna Inc.; the PBM Express Scripts and the industry groups Blue Cross Blue Shield Association, America’s Health Insurance Plans and the American Health Care Association, according to the IRS filing released Tuesday. Another $1.28 million came from the drugmakers Bristol-Myers Squibb Co., AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals, Pfizer Inc., Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corp., Sanofi Inc., Johnson & Johnson, Merck & Co., AbbVie, Gilead Sciences Inc., Teva Pharmaceuticals Inc. and Eli Lilly Co.
On July 10, Malloy  reluctantly signed the legislation, while calling it a “political stunt” and an “unfounded political attack” on his administration.
Connecticut lawmakers are not alone in facing industry headwinds in their attempts to pass legislation halting the alleged scheme by insurers and PBMs. North Dakota Gov. Doug Burgum signed two bills seeking to limit such price-gouging in July, only to  face a lawsuit from Pharmaceutical Care Management Association, a trade group representing pharmacy benefit managers, over the new laws.
Read:   Despite Lawsuits Over Drug Prices, Insurance Giant Touts Revenue Growth, Claims To Have Lowered Drug Costs
Separate correspondence to and from staff at the Connecticut Department of Insurance — whose commissioner, Katharine Wade, has  prompted conflict-of-interest concerns due to her two-decade career at Cigna, which still employs her husband — reveals a department acting as an advocate for insurers in the face of the price-gouging legislation. (Spokespeople for Malloy and Wade did not respond to requests for comment.)
In some instances, Wade or a staff member from her office requested legislation proposals from lobbyists employed by insurance firms. She asked Cigna lobbyist Amy Lazzaro and United Healthcare lobbyist Nick Thompson, for example, to “send me the proposed CO guaranty bill,” a reference to pending consumer protection-related health insurance legislation. Lazzaro responded that she “recently learned that the CO bill is not finalized” but that “we sincerely appreciate your attention to this and want to give you something that will help you to understand how we are thinking about these issues.” What followed was a seven-point list of recommendations for the bill, to which Wade replied, “Thanks.”
Other email chains involved arrangements for meetings between Wade, her staff and lobbyists from the law firm Robinson+Cole and CTAHP insurers, including Cigna, Aetna and Anthem, prior to meetings of the National Association of Insurance Commissioners, for which Wade  serves as vice chair, northeast zone. The fifth agenda item for one “pre-NAIC meeting,” according to a document attached to one chain of emails obtained by IBT, was the “PBM model.”
The emails reveal intense wrangling over the section of SB 445 regulating the behavior of PBMs, with Insurance Department staffers appearing to advocate for language allowing the PBMs to regulate themselves — rather than facing tougher government enforcement.
In one heated exchange, Looney’s and Fasano’s counselors expressed their exasperation with proposed language from Malloy’s budget director, Kelly Sinko. In a May 10 email, Sinko sent a preferred draft of a section of SB 445 stating that “each Pharmacy Benefits Manager or health carrier who enter [sic] into a contract for pharmacy services with a pharmacy or pharmacist shall be responsible for auditing and enforcing the provisions of this section in their own pharmacy services contracts.”
When Looney’s counsel responded that she and her Republican counterpart “don’t like that 445 language,” Wade, who was copied on the email chain, chimed in: “Please explain. Thanks.”
Jennifer Macierowski, Fasano’s counsel, responded minutes later.
“What part of our language don’t you like?” she wrote. “We think it is odd to put the PBMs in charge of policing themselves and ‘enforcing’ state law and policy. It is also unclear if [the Connecticut Insurance Department] has jurisdiction over contracts between PBMs and pharmacies????”
When Looney’s counsel, Dina Berlyn, offered new language giving the insurance commissioner the authority to audit the PBMs and punish them for misconduct, Wade didn’t budge — and instead insisted that the legislation should include language allowing insurers and PBMs to regulate themselves.
“The Department proposed language which was drafted by Department legal staff,” she wrote. “We are comfortable with our language and it is consistent with the Department’s authority and enforcement powers.”
Berlyn replied that the legislative staffers “totally deferred to you” for a different issue, and wrote that she was “not sure why you seem totally unwilling to negotiate at all.”
This article was originally published by the Motley Fool.
People who are new to the workforce often think an employee termination is a rare and frightening occurrence. However, those of us who have been around the block a few times know that firings are pretty commonplace -- and many of us have been fired before and lived to tell the tale. A recent study suggests the average worker in the U.S. will hold nearly 12 jobs during their lifetime, and there's a good chance not all of those transitions will be voluntary.
Once the ax falls, the question is, "What now?" Different people will react to a termination in different ways, but getting fired can prove to be an eye-opening experience that makes you, as it did me, even more valuable to your next employer. Here are five things I learned after being handed a pink slip.
• Motley  Fool  Issues Rare Triple-Buy Alert
1. It may have started with the first interview
Asking the right questions during a job interview can make all the difference. For example, I was hired to change the sales culture at a longtime regional brokerage firm from its old-school, boiler-room mentality to a more modern financial-advisory model.
The plan was to develop a number of training programs, which I did. Next up was running several training sessions with some other executive management in attendance. Once I'd completed the training curriculum and run several sessions, I got the boot. Bad news, right? It sure was for me, because I liked the new direction the firm was taking and thought I was going to be a part of it.
Then it hit me during my last elevator ride down from my office: They never intended to keep me on once the training programs were completed. What I should have asked during the initial interview was, "What will the role entail after the curriculum is completed?" The answer to that simple question would have helped me realize this wasn't the long-term position I was looking for.
2. Sometimes, it isn't about you at all
Unfortunately, it just doesn't matter how well you're doing when a new owner or management team takes the reins. And don't be surprised if the "reason" you're terminated is borderline ridiculous. Sometimes new leadership thinks it's a bit harsh to simply say, "We're cutting overhead," so they'll instead come up with inane excuses.
Another example: Near the end of a different job, I was only three weeks away from a promotion to executive vice president, and my team and I were coming off a record month that handily beat all our targets. And then I got the dreaded call to my boss's office. Why? Apparently, I just wasn't making the grade.
Analyzing the situation over the next few days helped me realize it was never about me at all. Rather than simply saying the new corporate owners wanted to consolidate operations to shave overhead, my superiors contrived a reason to fire me. Once I came to that realization, it was much easier for me to move on. And that brings us to the next lesson.
• This Stock Could Be Like Buying Amazon in 1997
3. You should still reflect on how you might have done better
If you're fired from your job, you owe it to yourself and your future employers to take a long look in the mirror and think about whether your former boss had some legitimate reasons to let you go. It's not a fun exercise, but it's necessary. Admitting that you perhaps fell short in some ways will help you grow emotionally and professionally, and it will make you more ready than ever to nail your next role.
4. Be prepared for your next interview
One of the most important things to do after you've been terminated is to think about your next job interview and plan out your answer to an inevitable question: "Why did you leave your last position?"
How you respond to that question could very well mean the difference between landing your next position and hitting the pavement again. When an interviewer asked me why I was let go from my position developing a training curriculum, I chose to put the onus on myself. I responded with something like, "I neglected to ask Mr. X what happens to the role after the training programs are completed in the initial interview." I Then added, "It was a tough lesson to learn, but it's a mistake I won't make again."
You don't have to confess every blunder you've ever made, but your prospective employer will appreciate a bit of candor.
5. Keep your head up
Don't fall into the spiral of negativity that being let go can put you in. It's not good for anyone, and it makes it harder for you to recognize the lessons you can learn from the experience. Remember: Getting fired doesn't change who you are -- just your job. Every worker has something to offer, and although you may have made some mistakes in your previous job, you can learn to avoid those mistakes and be an even better employee for your next boss.
• 7 of 8 People Are Clueless About This Trillion-Dollar Market
Maintaining a glass-half-full mindset after you've been fired is easier said than done. But if you can make the best of the situation by learning from the experience and bringing your best self to each job interview, you'll be moving on to bigger and better things in no time.
The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
This article was originally published on the Motley Fool.
What happened
Shares of  Under Armour Inc. (NYSE:UA) (NYSE:UAA) fell 10.7% and 8.8% respectively on Aug. 1, following the release of the company's second-quarter financial results. That leaves Under Armour shares down 41% so far this year, and down by 65% from the all-time high.
• Motley  Fool  Issues Rare Triple-Buy Alert
So what
Mr. Market is beating up on the apparel and footwear maker for a variety of reasons. To start, its financial and operating results were underwhelming. Under Armour reported revenue of $1.1 billion, up 9%, with strong 20% growth in direct-to-consumer sales, while wholesale revenue was up 3%. Under Armour also reported a $12 million net loss in the quarter, for a loss of $0.03 per share, and a $5 million operating loss, as gross margin contracted 190 basis points to 45.8%.
The gross-margin contraction was due to a number of things, including an increasingly competitive environment in North America, and the big impact of several major retailer bankruptcies over the past couple of years cutting into the company's distribution footprint. Case in point: Under Armour's footwear business, which had been its fastest-growing segment for several years, reported a 2% revenue decline in the second quarter.
International sales continue to be a bright spot. While revenue was flat in North America, sales increased 57% in EMEA (Europe, Middle East, and Africa), 89% in Asia-Pacific, and 10% in Latin America. From a profitability perspective, Asia was the lone bright spot, reporting $15 million in operating income, up 54% year over year, and the only segment with positive operating income in the quarter and first half of the year.
Now what
Under Armour's founder and CEO Kevin Plank and his management team have acknowledged that it's time to make some changes. While the company had grown sales and operating income at incredibly high rates for years -- at one point the company reported over a decade of 10%-plus consecutive quarterly sales growth -- the competitive landscape has changed. The company's operating expenses are simply too high, which is a limiting factor on its ability to adapt and invest in the best growth opportunities. Furthermore, it's led to poor returns on the company's growth investments.
• This Stock Could Be Like Buying Amazon in 1997
For this reason, the company is going to implement a restructuring plan to "more closely align its financial resources to support ... efforts to better serve the evolving needs of the changing consumer and customer landscape." In other words, management plans to be far more disciplined with capital, which should be a positive long-term development. The bad news: This will cost up to $130 million in restructuring expenses and charges ($70 million of which is cash), and cost some 280 Under Armour employees their jobs.
The company is also taking a more segmented approach to managing its categories, expecting that more focus on the basketball, men's training, women's, running, and lifestyle product categories will drive better growth and lead to stronger long-term profitability.
Looking ahead
In part because of the restructuring plan, but mostly due to heightened competitive pressure in North America, management said it expects revenue to grow at a slower pace than previously expected, lowering full-year guidance to revenue growth of 9% to 11%, down from prior guidance for 11% to 12%. Gross margin is also expected to decline, falling 160 basis points by year-end, due to restructuring costs, inventory management, foreign-currency impact, and competitive pressures. Operating income is expected to be $160 million to $180 million on a GAAP basis, and $280 million to $300 million when adjusting for restructuring costs.
The big question that investors must ask today: Is the restructuring a serious plan to realign costs to better support strategic growth and deliver better returns, or is it just a cost-cutting exercise? With Plank maintaining firm control of the company, it's almost certainly the former.
• 7 of 8 People Are Clueless About This Trillion-Dollar Market
If that does prove to be the case, the odds are probably in Plank's favor that Under Armour, which still commands powerful brand equity and is growing in very important international markets, will be in far better shape, and selling a lot more goods, in years to come.
Jason Hall owns shares of Under Armour (A Shares) and Under Armour (C Shares). The Motley Fool owns shares of and recommends Under Armour (A Shares) and Under Armour (C Shares). The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
Karen McCrimmon, the parliamentary secretary to Transport Minister Marc Garneau, expressed anger Monday after passengers on Air Transat Flight TSC157 were forced to remain without air conditioning, food or water for more than six hours when the plane was rerouted to Ottawa International Airport due to bad weather.
She condemned Air Transat’s lack of concern for their passengers’ well being, stressing on the new passenger bill of rights that would impose heavy penalties on airlines which treat their passengers poorly.
According to a CBC News report, McCrimmon said in a statement Tuesday she could "imagine how difficult the situation must have been, especially after a long transatlantic flight." The Air Transat flight from Brussels, Belgium, was bound for Montreal, Quebec, when stormy weather prevented the carrier from landing at the Trudeau International Airport. After rerouting to Ottawa, the passengers were informed that they would have to wait for about 30 minutes for the plane to refuel.
Air Transat Flight TSC157 kept the passengers on tarmac for hours without food and water. In this photo, Transat plane pictured after arriving at Toussaint Louverture airport in Port-au-Prince, Jan. 23, 2013.  Photo: Reuters/ Swoan Parker
Read: Air Transat Passengers Trapped On Hot Planes For Hours Forced To Call 911
However, minutes turned to hours and since the electricity in the plane was turned off to save the depleting fuel, passengers started to feel suffocating. When some of the passengers requested the crew to allow them to disembark from the plane for a while, they were refused.
The report also stated that the crew was running out of food and water. One of the passengers on the flight was finally forced to call 911 when the crew failed to provide any update on when the less-than-comfortable situation would get resolved.
"People started getting really frustrated. We got updates at the beginning, but then eventually they just stopped," Laura Mah, one of the passengers on Flight TSC157 said, NBC reported.  "Other passengers were very uncomfortable, hot and just wanted answers. We just kept getting the message that we needed to wait and the plane needs to refuel."
McCrimmon stated the new passenger bill of rights aims to punish airlines by forcing them to compensate the passengers if the latter is kept on tarmac for more than three hours.
"I don't think it will give the actual power for anybody to intervene in this situation, in that piece of legislation," McCrimmon said. "We're going to make sure that it's not worth your while … to treat people this way." She further added that a new air passenger bill would "clarify the responsibilities of air carriers and the rights of travelers, and move to create rules to strengthen air passenger rights."
The Commons transport committee is scheduled to return a week earlier than the date Canadian parliament is supposed to resume its regular sessions and deliberate the passenger bill of rights – Bill C-49 – which was introduced by Garneau in May 2017.
Read: Teen Arrested After Jumping Off Copa Airlines Flight, Other Similar Incidents
However, conservative representative Kelly Block dismissed the importance of the bill since it will not take effect until 2018. "Passing the Liberals' omnibus transportation bill, C-49, will not create an air passenger bill of rights. Further, C-49 will do nothing to immediately help passengers," Block told CBC.
Even though the new bill seeks to punish the airlines for mistreating its passengers, it does not make it mandatory for a plane to let its passengers disembark if an Air Transat-like situation occurs again. Conservative party leader Andrew Scheer pointed out the absurdity of the “no disembark” rule in a tweet:

House of Commons member Robert Aubin blamed the recent Air Transat incident on the lack of legislative initiatives taken by the New Democratic Party in Canada. "It's time for the government to act instead of just lamenting these awful situations after they occur," he told CBC News. "The NDP has introduced legislation that includes a clear set of protections for airline passengers and there's no excuse for more delays."
San Francisco airport officials said a 17-year-old boy was detained by crew members Tuesday after he opened an emergency gate of a Copa Airlines flight waiting to taxi to its arrival gate and jumped onto the tarmac at San Francisco International Airport.
The Copa Airlines Flight 208 from Panama City landed Tuesday afternoon and the incident took place around 2:30 p.m. EDT, according to SFO spokesman Doug Yakel. The teenager was arrested and is in police custody. Yakel said the teen is a U.S. citizen and was traveling alone.
Read: Spirit Airlines Passenger Strips Naked, Delays Flight: Other ‘Indecent Exposures’ On Planes​
The reason for the teen jumping off the plane was not clear immediately. According to SFO officials, Customs and Border Protection have been handling the investigation into the incident. The teen will also be transported to a hospital for psychiatric evaluation. He was not injured during the incident. Yakel said no runways were affected and there was no operational impact after the incident. The plane later taxied to its assigned gate and all passengers got off the flight without further problems.
 "We just landed and then I hear some people scream … like, 'No!'" said 11-year-old passenger Andrea Sepulveda Guzman, who was on the plane.
"And then this guy, I see him jump on the wing and then he starts climbing down the wing and then he just runs. And then he just starts running the other way. And everyone was just screaming," she added, CBS SFBay Area reported.

Copa Airlines issued a statement later regarding the incident, "Copa Airlines confirms that upon arrival of today’s flight CM 208 from Panama City (Panama) to San Francisco (United States), a 17-year old passenger sitting in an exit row seat unexpectedly opened the emergency door, and slid down the wing of the aircraft onto the taxiway at San Francisco International Airport. The incident occurred a few minutes after landing, while the aircraft was taxiing to the gate. A Copa crew member closed the exit door, and the aircraft proceeded to the gate where all other passengers and crew disembarked safely. The passenger has been taken into custody by law enforcement.  We are cooperating fully with the relevant authorities to support the ongoing investigation."
Read: WATCH: United Airlines Passenger Films Employees Mishandling Customers' Luggage​
There have been other similar incidents before where passengers have tried to jump off planes. 
In May 2017, an airline passenger was arrested after an incident involved the passenger trying to bite a flight attendant before opening the galley door of an American Airlines flight and jumping on to the tarmac at a North Carolina airport, according to Time Magazine. The American Airlines flight 5242 was preparing for takeoff from the terminal at Charlotte Douglas International Airport.
In November 2016, a United Airlines flight from New Orleans, which just landed in Houston, Texas and was taxiing towards its gate at George Bush International Airport, a female passenger was said to have walked out of an emergency exit and jumped out of the aircraft. She tried to flee and ran towards the terminal when she was detained the by the police, CNN had reported.
In 2014, a passenger on a China Eastern Airlines plane said he wanted to "get off the plane quicker" and deployed the emergency slide after the plane landed at Sanya Phoenix International Airport. The incident led to a two hour delay of the aircraft and reportedly cost the airlines about $16,000 in damages.
In April in the same year, a United Airlines flight attendant also pulled off a similar incident by jumping off an aircraft.
HP has created a new wearable VR PC that might not be just for gamers, but even help train employees by providing on-the-job training. VR is already being used to train soldiers, but it might be soon used to train employees in the fields such as product development.
Read: What Are Standalone VR Headsets And How Will They Change Gameplay?
The $3,299 backpack is comprised of a wearable PC that is compatible with major VR headsets such as the HTC Vive and can be worn around like a backpack.
It weighs around 10 lbs and the company claims that it is made of durable mesh material. The PC is powered by the Nvidia Quadro P5200 GPU with 16GB RAM and an Intel Core i7 processor, which comes with a 32GB DDR4 RAM.
It is also compatible with business-grade softwares such as Autodesk and Dassault. It runs its programs on Windows 10 Pro, comes with a HP Z VR dock, which can support two 4K displays at once and also mirrors displays using Miracast. The dock is designed for easy transition between VR and a hi-end PC.
Companies can design their own training programs using the proprietary dock. The backpack includes two hot swappable batteries, the HP Z VR Backpack harness, the PC and a power adapter.

The concept seems to push VR past just gaming usage, which the technology is majorly used for at the time. As a technology, VR until recently seemed to have to lost out to augmented reality in terms of usability not just because of cost impediments, but also since the technology is used to isolate users from their environments, unlike AR.
But the same isolation might actually become VR’s advantage since it can be used to create simulated environments, replicating which in the real world has cost deterrents. Moreover, employee training programs in VR can be easily altered according to the company’s changing needs.
A VR PC like this one can serve as a one-time investment for companies and replace trainers. But, the companies might also need to invest in designing the training program. More importantly, fields such as product development, which need detailed insight can be created and altered in VR. It can also be used to create immersive customer experiences.
Read: VR Set To Get A Dash Of Reality From Shape-Shifting Robotics
The HP Z VR PC can also be used for other purposes — it can also double as a gaming PC. HP has coordinated with the makers of the Mars Home Planet, which is working on creating a simulated environment of Mars. The team is working on creating a simulated Mars environment, which will have small to large bits such as whole buildings to even pieces of clothing.
The use of VR in such fields might make everyday functions more efficient for companies. The technology will join a legion of technologies such as AI, which despite possibly lowering costs for companies, could also cost humans jobs. Its usability though will be assessed by its everyday functionality.
Apple supplier Foxconn has in recent years been accused of poisoning waterways near its facilities in China. Now Republican Gov. Scott Walker of Wisconsin is not only proposing to give the company a $3 billion taxpayer subsidy, his administration has also quietly slipped language into a bill that would exempt the Taiwanese conglomerate from state environmental protection laws.
Walker, President Donald Trump and House Speaker Paul Ryan have in recent days touted Foxconn’s announcement that it will open a new manufacturing plant in Ryan’s Southwest Wisconsin congressional district. None of them, however, mentioned that the legislation providing the taxpayer subsidies included blanket waivers from Wisconsin’s environmental statutes.
Under those laws, companies are prohibited from discharging materials or otherwise polluting wetlands without a specific permit to do so. Under the bill that Walker has put forward, companies within the new “economics and information technology manufacturing zone” will be allowed to discharge material into non-federal wetlands if it relates to the construction or operation of a manufacturing facility. Walker has called a special session that will discuss his bill tomorrow.
Another section of the bill outlines how existing Wisconsin law requires companies to obtain a permit to disturb or transform nearby waterways. According to the official analysis of the bill by analysts in the Republican-controlled legislature, the new legislation will allow Walker’s administration to waive those permitting requirements “if they relate to the construction, access, or operation of a new manufacturing facility” in the zone where Foxconn is planning to build its facility.
A separate section of the bill exempts new energy utilities built inside the Foxconn development zone from facing regulatory oversight by the state’s Public Service Commission. Those provisions also exempt regulation of the building and relocation of high-voltage transmission lines, according to state legislative analysts.
In 2013, Foxconn drew scrutiny in China for dumping polluted water from its manufacturing facility into a nearby river. Chinese environmental advocates described the water as having a black-green color and a strong chemical smell. Foxconn defended itself by saying it was complying with all local laws within the industrial park where it operated. China has suffered from a widespread problem of arable soil being polluted by heavy metals involved in the electronics manufacturing process.
The language buried in the Wisconsin legislation comes as prominent Republicans have pledged to roll back environmental laws in the name of economic development. Trump, for instance, has said that his pending infrastructure initiative will include proposals to waive environmental regulations. House lawmakers earlier this month passed legislation to reduce permitting barriers for fossil fuel pipeline development.
Another day, another bizarre conspiracy theory involving a seemingly innocuous  restaurant and satanic occultism. A few internet sleuths got the better of Outback Steakhouse recently after they uncovered a pattern of stars — more specifically, pentagrams — in the locations of the restaurant chain across cities nationwide.
The conspiracy appears to have originated from a tweet by user @eatmyaesthetics, who on Thursday posted a series of screengrabs of the purported pentagram patterns of Outback Steakhouse locations in four areas: Indianapolis, New York City, Mesa in Arizona as well as an area outside of Atlanta.
Read: Outback Steakhouse Free Bloomin' Onion: 2 Magic Words You Need to Know To Score Free Aussie-Tizer
“Wtf is Outback Steakhouse planning,” the user captioned the Thursday tweet, which was “liked” nearly 300,000 times and had 117,000 retweets by Monday afternoon.
Wtf is Outback Steakhouse planning pic.twitter.com/l1CSafkdOK
&mdash; balenci-who? aga ☭ (@eatmyaesthetics) July 27, 2017

Reached for comment by International Business Times, a spokesperson for Bloomin’ Brands, Inc., which owns Outback Steakhouse, confirmed that the restaurant is not involved with any cult — satanic or otherwise.
“Once this was brought to our attention, we took a look at the map and saw something completely different!” the spokesperson told IBT. “And, no, of course we’re not involved with any cult.”
Following the initial tweet, other sleuths located Outback Steakhouse location pentagrams in other nationwide cities. “NC in on it,” wrote user @julesjune_, who shared a screengrab of an area in North Carolina.
NC in on it pic.twitter.com/Yam8sZ1eEt
&mdash; jules (@julesjune_) July 28, 2017

“Y’all may be on to something,” wrote user @hanginwitcoop, who shared a pentagram located in Virginia.
Y’all may be on to something pic.twitter.com/fXEsSXR5G3
&mdash; A henny has no chase (@hanginwitcoop) July 28, 2017

User @QueenIdle wrote, “Outback Steakhouse is slaughtering cows and sacrificing them to SATAN: a conspiracy theory.”
Outback Steakhouse is slaughtering cows and sacrificing them to SATAN: a conspiracy theory pic.twitter.com/RQP8DWUvDt
&mdash; ♡ JUJU ♡ (@QueenIdle) July 28, 2017

More got in on the meme as well:
Hold the damn phone. pic.twitter.com/3lHFfv34DJ
&mdash; honey dip (@TatiJayy_) July 28, 2017

Outback Steakhouse apart of a satanic cult confirmed? pic.twitter.com/Sv5NSGZHER
&mdash; Boneless Stubbs (@WyattStubbs) July 29, 2017

Outback Steakhouse apart of a satanic cult confirmed? pic.twitter.com/Sv5NSGZHER
&mdash; Boneless Stubbs (@WyattStubbs) July 29, 2017

Satan is everywhere pic.twitter.com/h5uzDOcOIe
&mdash; Derick Pahor (@drockpahor) July 29, 2017

yooooo _ pic.twitter.com/H5PHNtTEeN
&mdash; Jack Chiang (@TechmerJack) July 29, 2017

Read: George Zimmerman Jury Dined At Outback Steakhouse, Saw 'World War Z' While Being Sequestered In Trayvon Martin Case
Outback Steakhouse’s main Twitter account, which regularly responds to its fans, addressed the allegations of satanic occultism in a tweet Friday. Sharing an image of its Bloomin’ Onion transposed over a Google Maps screen grab of Tampa, Florida — the location of its headquarters — the restaurant chain wrote simply, “Plot twist.”
Plot twist. pic.twitter.com/t2VEpCrWY2
&mdash; Outback Steakhouse (@Outback) July 28, 2017

The response had been “liked” more than 16,000 times and retweeted by 3,000 users as of Monday.
Internet sleuths uncovered a pattern of pentagrams in the locations of Outback Steakhouse in cities nationwide. Photo: Flickr/Mike Mozart
Crowdsourced investment manager Quantopia  has two foundational principles: first, that there is quantitative talent all over the world, and second, that quantitative managers need to continually find new strategies.
"Quantitative and technically capable people aren't only found in financial centers where traditional hedge funds have hired and employed people," Jonathan  Larkin, Chief Investment Officer of Quantopian, told International Business Times.
"Quantitative trading is a production problem because quantitative strategies don't last forever. The markets are very competitive. Strategies work for a while but over time become more widely known and deployed.
"Because of that, alpha in the strategy gets competed away. Therefore in order to be successful you have to have very large research output: it's not enough to just find a good strategy, you need to continually find good strategies over time."
Quantopian  has brought the internet to bear to the research production problem. This has turned out to be a highly  scalable  solution. The platform has doubled its community year over year and has over 140,000 members now around the world.
When someone has created a strategy that has survived  Quantopian's rigorous analysis and testing, the author may achieve a capital allocation. The largest single allocation  Quantopian  has made to date has been $10 million, said  Larkin. "I can tell you when a community member gets the first email inviting him or her to our diligence process to discuss a strategy that they have developed, and that we have discovered, vetted, and validated, it's an extraordinarily exciting moment for them."
The algorithm authors and community members own their IP from day one and they retain ownership of their code and research, which is encrypted on the  Quantopian  platform.  Quantopian  licenses strategies it believes are exceptional.
An author of a licensed strategy is typically paid 10 percent of the net profits of his or her strategy. Hypothetically, in the case of a $10 million allocation to a strategy that produces a net annual return of 10 percent (or $1 million in net profits), the author would be paid $100,000. As such, even at these initial allocation levels, an author can earn a meaningful payout.
Larkin  makes the point that finance is a latecomer to the  crowdsourcing  game.
Crowdsourcing  has proved very effective in other domains, starting back with the Netflix Prize in 2006. Today you can find people doing varying activities, like protein folding, through  crowdsourced  websites.
In order to harness the wisdom of crowds successfully, certain features need to be present. One of the necessary features is standardisation. In the case of finance, standardisation comes from the use of performance  analytics . "At  Quantopian  we use a range of studies and performance  analytics  to evaluate strategies," said  Larkin . "We can take very diverse strategies and analyse them in a standardised way, looking at metrics such as Sharpe ratio and exposure to common risk factors. Finance lends itself very well to standardization."
"A second feature is independence: the crowd must do independent work.  Quant  finance practitioners are very cautious to protect their  IP  and their strategy ideas; because of that, when authors create the core of their strategies they do it in isolation.
"A third criterion is that the whole must be greater than the sum of the parts. Modern portfolio theory tells you that when you form a portfolio of uncorrelated strategies, mathematically, the whole will be more valuable than the individuals."
Quantopian  has an active community with over 10,000 posts on the community forum last year. The platform also offers free educational content; there are some 50 lectures available. "We bring together people around the world to discuss challenges and opportunities in strategy development," said  Larkin .
A man looks at an electronic board displaying share prices in Tokyo, July 8, 2009. Photo: REUTERS
"This is a difficult business. Only a small percentage of community members will likely get an allocation to their strategies. However, everyone who comes to  Quantopian  is better off for it because they have the opportunity learn something. They have the opportunity to get exposure and insight to a field which historically has been closed off except to a very narrow segment of the population."
Concluding,  Larkin  warned of the many failure modes in the design, research and implementation of quantitative strategies such as  overfitting , and ensuring data is high quality and without look-ahead bias.
"Data integrity is essential. You must keep it point-in-time," he said, "and you need many  datasets . Those  datasets  need to be integrated, symbol mapped to a single identifier over time, time aligned, and properly corporate action adjusted. This aspect of quantitative investing is not very glamorous or exciting, but it is absolutely essential.  Quantopian  does this in a world class way, for free, for our community members."
 
The back-to-school sales are coming with participating states suspending or decreasing sales tax on certain products. The tax-free weekend for most states begins Aug. 4 while some also carry out the promotions end of August.
Nearly half of the 45 states and the District of Columbia that impose sales taxes on many goods, will reduce the price of certain products during the weekend in August. The five states that don't impose a sales tax – Alaska, Delaware, Montana, New Hampshire and Oregon – will continue to sell products at the same cost. States such as Alabama, Mississippi and Tennessee organized a tax-free weekend on the last weekend of July.
Read: How Much Money Do Parents Spend On Back To School Shopping?
To avail the discount there is no requirement of any coupon as sales tax will be automatically deducted on eligible items at checkout in the participating states. For those who live in states not offering tax exemptions can travel to states that are participating.
According to the National Retail Federation, total spending, for primary and secondary school and college, could reach $83.6 billion in 2017, up from $75.8 billion last year and $68 billion in 2015.
"Families are now in a state of mind where they feel a lot more confident about the economy," Matthew Shay, the federation's president and chief executive officer, said in a news release. "With stronger employment levels and a continued increase in wages, consumers are spending more, and we are optimistic that they will continue to do so throughout the rest of the year."
Deloitte, a worldwide professional services firm, also conducted a survey on the expectations of 2017's back to school shopping, saying that an average school supply spending per household increased to $501 nationally.
"With today’s technology-based education system there is less need for traditional school supplies, likely contributing to the shift toward more spending on clothing and accessories before children head back to school," Rob Sides, vice chairman of Deloitte LLP, said. "Part of this shift may also come from the popularity of pre-configured school supply kits, which 30 percent of families plan to use."
Here is a list of states and dates of tax-free promotions, according to a list compiled by DealNews. 
Arkansas — Aug. 5-6 — clothing, accessories, art supplies and school supplies.
Connecticut — Aug. 20-26 — clothing and footwear.
Florida — August but dates are unconfirmed — clothing, accessories and school supplies.
Iowa — Aug. 4-5 — clothing and footwear.
Maryland — Aug. 13-19 — clothing and footwear.
Massachusetts — Aug. 12-13 (but dates unconfirmed) — clothing and footwear.
Missouri — Aug. 4-6 — clothing, computers, software, graphic calculators and school supplies.
New Mexico — Aug. 4-6 — clothing, shoes, computers and school supplies.
Ohio — Aug. 4-6 — clothing and school supplies.
Oklahoma — Aug. 4-6 — clothing.
Read: When Is The First Day Back To School? List Of College Start Dates
South Carolina — Aug. 4-6 — clothing, shoes, computers, bed linens, bath items and school supplies.
Texas — Aug. 11-13 — clothing, shoes, backpacks and school supplies.
Virginia — Aug. 4-6 — clothing, shoes and school supplies. 
A Spirit Airlines flight was delayed from taking off from Las Vegas on Saturday when a passenger stripped down to his birthday suit and approached one of the flight attendants.
"He removed his clothes and then approached a flight attendant," McCarran International Airport spokesman Chris Jones told NBC affiliate News 3 Las Vegas. "Metro officers were called and he was given medical attention."
The Oakland-bound flight was delayed by 30 minutes due to the incident and police as well as medical staff were called on board to remove the passenger and keep him under observation. The flight reached its destination 20 minutes after its scheduled time.
It was not immediately clear if the man was charged for indecent exposure on the flight. It has only been reported that he received medical help after he was removed from the plane. Personal details about the man have not been revealed by airport security.
Man strips naked inside Spirit Airlines. A Spirit Airlines employee walks under a plane on the tarmac at the Fort Lauderdale International Airport after striking pilots agreed June 16 to a new contract in Fort Lauderdale, Florida, June 17, 2010.  Photo: Getty Images/ Joe Raedle
Read: United Airlines Passenger Films Employees Mishandling Customers' Luggage
There have been many passengers in the past who have revealed more skin that they should within the public confines of a plane. In April 2017, a woman sued Delta Airlines for sexual assault. She claimed that the crew present onboard at the time had done nothing to stop the perpetrator, Christopher Finkley, masturbating next to her, who then proceeded to molest her, CBS Local reported.
The lack of action on the part of Delta Airlines was a mistake that was not made by Jet2.com back in May 2015 when a 22-year-old man from Lincolnshire, England, indecently exposed himself in front of the flight attendants. He was not only arrested but also banned for life from availing any of Jet2.com flights in the future.
“We carry millions of families every year so this disgusting behavior will not be tolerated. It is totally unacceptable,” CEO of Jet2.com Steve Heapy said in a statement, Travel Pulse reported. “We pride ourselves on giving our customers a friendly and relaxing flight experience so we will take action against anyone who causes offence and disruption to our crew and passengers.”
Read: United Airlines Sued Over Death Of A Giant Rabbit
Same year in March, a drunk 46-year-old woman from southwest London was arrested when she “indecently exposed herself” on a British Airways flight, USA Today reported. She was remanded in police custody after the plane landed at the airport. However, the woman was released after a few hours with just a warning for drinking too much.
Even though being a part of the “mile high club” is now considered a privilege for many, doing so while seated among others on the flight is illegal. Alicia Elizabeth Lander learned that lesson Back in January 2017 when she was charged with indecent exposure on an Air Canada flight, National Post reported. Lander was discovered in a compromising position with her partner, by a flight attendant. The couple had covered their laps with a jacket and proceeded to fondle each other beneath the cover.
Russian antitrust watchdog Federal Antimonopoly Service (FAS) is looking into the violations of country’s anti-monopoly law by some of the biggest search engines such as Google and Yandex, Russia's state-run news agency RIA Novosti reported Monday.
An enquiry has been initiated into the matter after the European Commission fined Google €2.42 billion ($2.85 billion) in June over the abuse of its dominant position in the search engine market. EC said Google preferred results from its own shopping services. The company has been told to stop the violations within three months or pay fine equivalent to 5 percent of its daily turnover.
Read: Google-EU Antitrust Case: Search Giant Hit With Record Fine
The FAS has not received any complaints as of now, but it is studying the EC ruling and comparing the practices followed by the search engines in the country. “We are currently exploring, on initiative basis, how search engines on the territory of the Russian federation conduct themselves, and whether they make their resources more preferable,” Elana Zaeva, Head, Communications and Information Technology Department, FAS told RIA Novosti in an interview Monday. The watchdog has not drawn a timeline for the investigation. 
In April, the FAS ended a two-year old investigation in the case of pre-installation of Google Apps in the Android devices. The search engine agreed to pay FAS penalties amounting to 438 million rubles ($7.7 million), along with an additional fine of one million rubles ($16,688), although the company stated its apps were not exclusive to Android devices in Russia and it did not limit the preset of other applications by device makers on the default home screen.
Google, that offers various services from search engine to its own Android OS, is increasingly coming under the scanner of international watchdogs for antitrust violations. According to statistics website StatCounter, Google has amassed a larger market share than all of its rivals. The Federal Communications Commission is yet to initiate any such investigation in the United States, where Google occupies a slightly smaller 89 percent share of web searches.
Read: Facebook, Twitter, Google Scams: EU Orders Companies To Curb Problem Or Face 'Enforcement Action'
As of June, the company had 91.88 percent of global searches, while the nearest competitor, Bing, had a miniscule 2.88 percent. With an absolute domination of internet-based searches worldwide, Google can impact the business of companies with its search listings.
The company also sells placement of links, which means that certain links will be shown on top of competing searches. For instance, if you search for “Fitbit,” you might see a small “Ad” icon under the first search result. In certain countries, it is the Amazon link under which you see this icon, which shows that Amazon has paid Google for the placement of its link even above the Fitbit official link. Despite the EU fine, Google is yet to change this policy. 
Sheryl Sandberg, Chief Operating Officer of Facebook, asked governments and companies to be proactive regarding equal pay for men and women Sunday.
Sandberg stated that equal pay for women must be supported by sturdier policies at work, in an interview released Sunday by BBC Radio 4's Desert Island Discs. She called for more to be done regarding the gender pay gap. Sandberg said the first step is to "start paying women better."
READ: Trump Net Neutrality: White House Offers Support For FCC Plan To End Protections
Sandberg confessed she struggled with self-doubt during her time at Harvard University. She said women were more inclined to underestimate their worth more than men do, hindering themselves from asking for higher pay.
"We need to start paying women well and we need the public policy and the corporate policy to get there," she told the BBC. "But certainly women applying for jobs at the same rate as men, women running for office at the same rate as men, that's got to be part of the answer," she continued.
The issue of gender pay gap surfaced this month when the BBC publicized the pay of its journalists.
Men earned more than 197,000 annually, outnumbering their women counterparts two to one. BBC’s top earning broadcaster made four-times more money than its highest-paid female broadcaster.
Sandberg, one of Silicon Valley’s top executives and author of Lean In, said women undervalued their business contributions. Sandberg sparked headlines in 2013 with her book about female empowerment on the job. She stated both girls and boys should be empowered to follow their dreams.
READ: Tech Companies As Utilities? Steve Bannon Wants Google, Facebook Heavily Regulated
"We start telling little girls not to lead at very young ages and we start telling little boys to lead at a very young ages, and that's a mistake," she told interviewer Kirsty Young on Desert Island Discs.
"I believe everyone has inside them the ability to lead and we should let people choose that, not based on gender but on who they are and who they want to be."
After the Westminster terror attack on March 22, Sandberg met with Home Secretary Amber Rudd and discussed what Facebook was doing to fight terrorism. She stated they were "aligned" during the discussions.
She said, "complicated conversations" about encrypted messages on WhatsApp continued between the government and Facebook. She also conferred strides Facebook was taking to keep itself and it's WhatsApp messaging app from being utilized to plan and promote terrorist attacks.
"We want to make sure all of us do our part to stop terrorism, and so our Facebook policies are very clear: there's absolutely no place for terrorism, hate, calls for violence of any kind," she said.
Rudd wanted law enforcement to have access to encrypted WhatsApp messages terrorists shared with each other. She asked tech companies to be proactive regarding terrorism.
"As technology evolves these are complicated conversations, we're in close communication working through the issues all around the world," she said.
A big Facebook logo created from images of Facebook users worldwide is pictured in the company's Data Center Nov. 7, 2013 in Lulea, in Swedish Lapland. Photo: Getty Images
United Airlines faces more backlash after a passenger filmed and shared a video Wednesday of how baggage handlers mistreated customers' luggage, which was first reported by Bored Panda Thursday.  
The video footage shared by Reddit user TwoPointZero_gpa was captioned "Thanks United," showing the process used by the airline's baggage handlers to transfer customers' luggage. A blue suitcase is seen falling off the conveyor belt, with another being tossed off the plane and falling to the ground thereafter.
United Airlines passenger films how terribly they handle luggagehttps://t.co/89NsV4I7yQ pic.twitter.com/ctjmxr4Gef
— Ken Rutkowski (@kenradio) July 27, 2017
Frank Benenati, the Director of Corporate Communications for United Airlines, issued a statement to International Business Times Friday on the incident that reportedly occurred at O'Hare International Airport.
"We are concerned by this video and are working with our team at O’Hare to make sure all appropriate action will be taken," Benenati told IBT.
Read: United Airlines Sued Over Death Of A Giant Rabbit
The Reddit user's video amassed over 1 million views and reeled in more than 3100 comments on United Airline's baggage handling tactics. A fellow Reddit user, Timett_son_of_Timett, believed he identified his luggage being mistreated in the video. 
"Holy crap is that my bag," the user wrote in the comments section. The Reddit user also attached a photo of his damaged luggage before realizing that it wasn't his luggage depicted in the video footage.
This incident comes on the heels of another controversy that plagued the airline Wednesday. United Airlines is reportedly facing a lawsuit from a passenger who claims that their giant bunny died on one of its flights.
The animal was found dead in a kennel on a flight from London, England to Chicago, Illinois. The lawsuit was filed over three months after the April incident and requested recourse for the damages made as well as $2,300. The rabbit was supposed to be picked up by its new owners at the airport.
Read: United Airlines Stock Price Doesn't Drop Despite PR Disasters
Twitter users have taken to social media to raise concerns about the airline, with one user tweeting Thursday, "I'm flying for the first time on United Airlines today. If it's anything like it sounds like on twitter..... pray for me."
United Airlines intended to prevent future PR problems from occurring by launching major company-wide overhaul. CNN reported on the airline's reform plans in July, with a representative of the airline claiming that involuntary bumping — which led to the viral April assault of David Dao — has decreased by 85 percent. Other reforms will include an incentive worth up to $10,000 for customers to voluntarily forfeit a ticketed seat. 
United Airlines planes, pictured July 8, 2015 sitting on the tarmac at San Francisco International Airport, the airline has come under fire for the way luggage handlers treated passengers luggage. Photo: Getty Images
Follow me on Twitter @dory_jackson
Dropbox Inc. is expected to hire Goldman Sachs as lead advisor for an initial public offering it is planning to roll out soon, Bloomberg reported Friday.
The file sharing company is rumored to have a valuation of $10 billion, and raised $600 million debt financing from JP Morgan Chase & Co. among other investors in March. Till date, it has raised $1.7 billion in funding. The company passed an important milestone in January — it became cash flow positive with $1 billion annual revenue run rate i.e. revenue for a short period extrapolated for a whole year.
Despite companies such as Google and Apple offering their own cloud storage plans, Dropbox is still way ahead of the competition. Its major rival Box had only around $300 million in revenue in the fiscal year 2016. Dropbox stated in March 2016 that its user base had crossed 500 million.
Read: Dropbox For Xbox: You Can Now Stream Videos, Music And Pictures In Dropbox To Your TV
Dropbox’s consumer usage is mostly among loyal users who still use it to store photos and other files in the cloud.
And now might be the right moment for the company to venture into an IPO, since it has been operating at high profit rates despite not offering a unique product. Its CEO and co-founder Drew Houston stated in April the company was still profitable post taxes.
"It’s rare for software companies to be operating at our scale with our level of profitability and to be growing at the rate that we are," Houston told Bloomberg Television at the time.
In January, business website Mattermark called its projected IPO the "shiniest unicorn IPO of 2017."
The MIT Technology Review stated the company’s revenue as of January was at almost double the level it was in 2014.
“Investors may be in for a pleasant surprise. According to people familiar with the company’s finances, sales are running at more than $750 million a year, up from around $400 million in 2014. That’s thanks in part to growing sales of Dropbox Business, a souped-up version of the free app that costs $150 per employee per year. The company has been cash-flow positive since early 2016, even as it has made heavy investments in engineering, sales, and IT infrastructure,” it said.
Read: How To Pick Between Apple Photos, Yahoo's Flickr, Dropbox And Other Picture Management Tools
The way Dropbox has been able to do this, according to TechCrunch is because of two reasons — its enterprise users and ease of simplicity. The company has also been diversifying its offerings — it launched its note-taking app, Paper, in January. In addition to this, Dropbox intends to offer business softwares such as content creating systems.
The Dropbox IPO is expected to be the second-biggest IPO of 2017 after the one offered by Snap Inc.. While Snap’s IPO actually outperformed expectations, whether Dropbox matches expectations remains to be seen.
Marijuana growers in California are doing too good a job. The executive director of the California Growers’ Association, Hezekiah Allen, said Wednesday the state would have to scale down the production of marijuana because it’s currently producing eight times the amount that is normally consumed.
This hasn't been a problem until now because the surplus was exported to other states, but a new law set to go into effect in January will ban growers from selling their products outside the state, leaving them with fewer outlets to sell their surplus weed.
Allen said their primary objective would be to prevent cannabis growers from illegally sending marijuana to other states using the black market.
“We are producing too much,” Allen said, adding that marijuana farmers “are going to have to scale back. We are on a painful downsizing curve.”
Marijuana can be used for a number of things apart from smoking wee. In this story, Fast Eddy Aki'a of Hawaii smokes a joint as thousands gathered to celebrate the state's medicinal marijuana laws in Civic Center Park in Denver, Colorado, April 20, 2012.  Photo: Getty Images/ Marc Piscotty
TRENDING: Horrifying Video Shows Deadly Collision Hurling Motorist Into The Air
Estimates of the scale of California’s cannabis overproduction vary. While Allen said the state produces eight times more than state residents consume, Joseph Devlin, chief of Cannabis Policy and Enforcement for the City of Sacramento, cited estimates of five times the amount of consumption;  the LATimes reported that an industry consultant put the amount of overproduction at 12 times what is consumed.
The state's immediate goal was "to get folks into the regulated market, as many as possible," said Lori Ajax, chief of the state’s Bureau of Medical Cannabis Regulation. She conceded, however, that “there are some people who will never come into the regulated market.”
After California became the first state in the United States to legalize it, marijuana production in the state flourished. While marijuana is largely seen as good for smoking  or oral consumption for medical or recreational purposes, there are a number of other uses for cannabis.
According to Weed Seed Shop, cannabis seeds are not only good for producing more marijuana plants but can also serve as a food product. Roasted cannabis seeds are excellent sources of protein and amino acids. They also contain minor quantities of vitamins and minerals. They are especially nutritious for people recovering from diseases such as arthritis. The nutty flavor of the seeds can also be utilized by grinding them into a powder and infusing it in smoothies, along with an array of other healthy ingredients; they can also be baked into cakes.
A bowl with marijuana seeds during a worshop on cannabis cookery given by Argentine chef Natalia Revelant for people interested in medicinal cuisine in Santiago, on May 24, 2017. Photo: Getty Images/ MARTIN BERNETTI
TRENDING:  Video Shows Woman Telling Muslims “We’re Gonna Kill All Of Ya”
Most people are familiar with the oil extracted from the buds of the marijuana flower, which can be smoked or ingested orally for medicinal purposes. However, there is also the non-edible oil extracted from cannabis seeds that can be used in paints, lacquers, varnishes, and lubricants. This oil can also be used in cosmetic products and for skin treatments.
Cannabis seed oil is also an excellent replacement for non-renewable sources of energy such as coal, and has a far less negative impact on the environment. There’s a popular myth that American industrialist and founder of the Ford Motor Company, Henry Ford,  manufactured a car using all possible parts of a marijuana plant, including the oil extracted from cannabis seeds to fuel his vehicle. In truth, it seems the car was made in part from hemp. 
Cannabis seeds can be used as bird feed and can also be used to lure in pests like rats or other rodents in order to catch them.
One alternative for cannabis growers can be a switch to the production of hemp, a variant of cannabis with high fiber content and negligible psychotropic properties. The Chinese have been making clothes from hemp since 8000 B.C., and you can order clothes made from hemp online now, according to ScoopWhoop.
Due to its high fiber content, texture and durability, hemp is useful in making ropes. Hemp plants can also be used to make pulp for paper, and jewelry can be made using the twines that grow around the plant.
This form of cannabis can be used to produce plastics, which can be turned into soda cans, CD holders, shower curtain liners, furniture etc. Cannabis plastic is 100 percent biodegradable, easier to recycle and safer than traditional plastics.
 
 
 
The most powerful present-day rocket in the world which also has the largest payload capacity is SpaceX’s Falcon Heavy, except one drawback — it has never even been fully tested, let alone flown. But company CEO Elon Musk announced late Thursday that SpaceX will finally test the Falcon Heavy in November, the clearest indication yet of the rocket’s “maiden launch.”
Musk made the announcement on his Instagram and Twitter accounts.


Even though the exact date for the test launch is not yet known, it will take place from NASA’s Kennedy Space Center in Florida, since SpaceX does not have the facilities at its development site in Texas to support the thrust produced by the Falcon Heavy. With the power of almost three Falcon 9 rockets (27 Merlin engines, compared to nine in the Falcon 9), the Falcon Heavy is expected to generate 5.1 million pounds of thrust at take-off.
Read: Blue Origin Vs. SpaceX: Jeff Bezos' New Glenn Rocket Bigger Than Falcon Heavy?
The 27 engines actually come from three cores in the rocket’s first stage, each of which is a Falcon 9 rocket, one of them as the center booster and the other two as side boosters. After lift-off, the center core engines throttle down, and the side cores power the rocket till the end of the first stage, when the two boosters separate and the center core powers up to full thrust again.
In another tweet Thursday, Musk said the two side boosters will return to the Cape Canaveral facility in Florida, while the central booster will land on a droneship. SpaceX has demonstrated successfully a few times both types of landings that allow it to reuse its rockets.

The only rocket which had a larger payload capacity than the Falcon Heavy’s 54 metric tons (119,000 pounds) was the Saturn V moon rocket, which last flew in 1973. SpaceX claims the Falcon Heavy can carry twice the payload than the largest capacity rocket in operation, the Delta IV Heavy manufactured by United Launch Alliance (a joint venture of Lockheed Martin and Boeing). This high capacity for payload makes the rocket suited for crewed missions to the moon or even Mars.
However, getting the Falcon Heavy into orbit is no easy task. While the Falcon 9 has achieved that feat a number of times already, putting three of the lighter rocket’s engine cores together in one enormous machine is not just a simple matter of addition, as Musk explained at the International Space Station Research and Development Conference in Washington, D.C., on July 19.
“At first it sounds real easy, you just stick two first stages on as strap-on boosters, but then everything changes. All the loads change, aerodynamics totally change. You’ve tripled the vibration and acoustics. You sort of break the qualification levels on so much of the hardware. … The amount of load you’re putting through that center core is crazy because you’ve got two super-powerful boosters also shoving that center core, so we had to redesign the whole center core airframe. It’s not like the Falcon 9 because it’s got to take so much load. Then you’ve got separation systems,” Musk reportedly said.
An artist's illustration of the Falcon Heavy rocket and the Dragon spacecraft taking off from launch pad 39A at the Kennedy Space Center, Florida. Photo: SpaceX
Read: SpaceX Signs First Customer For Reused Falcon 9 Rocket
And despite knowing all that, and preparing accordingly, Musk wasn’t sure if the heavy rocket will actually be successful in its first launch test.
“There’s a lot of risk associated with Falcon Heavy, a real good chance that that vehicle does not make it to orbit. I want to make sure to set expectations accordingly. I hope it makes it far enough beyond the pad so that it does not cause pad damage. I would consider even that a win, to be honest,” Musk said of the November test.
If everything goes without a hitch, SpaceX has two more Falcon Heavy flights scheduled in the first half of 2018. If the rocket starts commercial flights by the end of 2018, as SpaceX plans, it could mean a big boost for the company, which is now already one of the world’s most valued privately held businesses. According to pricing made available by SpaceX, it will charge $90 million for carrying up to 8 metric tons of payload to geosynchronous transfer orbit. Data gathered by CNBC showed SpaceX is now valued at $21 billion, with only six other companies worldwide that are privately held and valued at over $20 billion.
Walmart wants customers to save money through a revamped program that loads a direct deposit check onto a Walmart card.
The mega-retailer revamped the program that allows customers to load money onto a "MoneyCard" and spend it in the store. Walmart allowed customers to get cash back on purchases and print checks.
READ: Walmart Plans To Create 1.5 Million Jobs, Unveils Manufacturing Strategy
A spokeswoman for Walmart said the retailer added a "savings account like" feature that will make patrons eligible to participate in a contest for each dollar saved.
Walmart cited that the revamped card allowed customers to "reload" money onto their cards. On the retailer's website, it stated customers could take advantage of "convenient, no reload fees."
"With this reload option you can: Save money – enjoy no reload fee, reload anywhere – make a transfer from any computer," the site read. "Reload anytime – reload anytime that is convenient for you 24/7."
"With an electronic funds transfer, you can add money to your Card from the website of many banks, credit unions and financial institutions," the website read.
READ: North Dakota Woman Made Death Threats To 3 Somali Women, Apologizes After Video Goes Viral
Lots of banks close around five or six in the evening. Now, patrons can head to Walmart if they wanted to deposit checks. One customer talked about how difficult it was to locate a bank in the evening.
"Whenever the bank shuts down at 5 or 6 o clock or on the weekend, you can be like 'oh, wait I'll still go to Walmart and handle my finances," Joshua Gonzalez told 10 News Thursday.
Like most banks, Walmart enlisted some fees for managing money. Walmart charges $5 a month for anyone who carried less than $1,000 in their account. That’s less than most major banks like Chase, Bank of America and Wells Fargo charged patrons.
Walmart also charged patrons if they deposited cash into an account at registers. The retailer charged $2.50 if patrons wanted to retrieve money from a non-Walmart atm.
Walmart developed their "MoneyCard" program last year under Walmart executive Daniel Eckert. The program allowed customers to win money as they saved money, NPR’s Salley Helm reported during an interview in 2016.
Eckert reportedly helped create the program with Green Dot and with a group called Commonwealth. "Eckert says research shows that if people have the chance to win money for saving, they'll save more," according to NPR.
She added, "So the program works like this - if you keep money in the vault, you get entered into a sweepstakes. Every month, one person wins a thousand bucks, and hundreds of other people win $25 each. If the research is right, that should make people save more."
When asked if the program was successful, Eckert confirmed that it works. He cited a 45 percent increase in users of the "MoneyCard" and the prize savings vault.
"We're pretty excited about it. It's still early days, and we're seeing some really great results so far," he said. "You know, we saw immediately a 45-percent increase in users of the prize savings vault.
Walmart offers patrons a chance to save money with the "Money Card". 'Low Prices' signs are pictured in a Walmart store Jan.26, 2006 in Evergreen Park, Illinois.  Photo: Getty Images
The German government reportedly recalled thousands of Porsche SUVs Thursday after learning they held an "unauthorized defeat device," which allegedly could be used to cheat emissions tests.
German Transport Minister Alexander Dobrindt announced the recall covered 22,000 of the Porsche Cayenne vehicles outfitted with 3-liter engines and registered in Germany.
READ: Don't Want A Tesla Model 3? Here Are Other Affordable Electric Cars You Can Check Out
German officials suspended the vehicle’s authorization, which will cause Porsche, owned by automaker giant Volkswagen, to generate new software. The government will inspect the new software before the company can be approved to sell more models. 
Porsche released a statement Thursday that it, "detected irregularities in the engine control software" and informed the Transport Ministry. The company implied they could rectify the issue via software update. 
The company stated that it decided to recall the vehicles to correct the problems.
"Porsche continues to carry out internal audits on its vehicles," the high-end automaker said. "If there is something that is not OK, then we tackle it and get it right."
READ: Elon Musk Rants On Twitter, Says He Started Tesla Because Big Auto Companies Killed The Electric Car
"The producer will of course bear 100 percent of the costs," Dobrindt told reporters. "There is no explanation why this software was in this vehicle."
He added, "We have examined Porsche Cayenne vehicles of the 3-liter TDI Euro 6 Mark - during tests these vehicles deploy a so-called defense strategy, which isn't activated in real traffic."
Dobrindt stated Porsche could rectify the issue with haste, adjusting the software to fit the emissions law. He mentioned that there were about 7,500 of recalled vehicles licensed in Germany, and about 22,000 in Europe. He also cited that the company is unsure how many models existed in dealerships around the country.
"We don't know how many are with dealers. These are the cars that fall under the certification ban," he said.
He added, "In our view that is a kind of test recognition, which we regard as an impermissible deactivation strategy. Even if there is a modern exhaust gas cleaning system in these vehicles, if this software is nonetheless there it is illegal, does not meet the legal requirements and needs to be removed."
The recalled Porsche Cayenne shared similar mechanisms to the company’s Volkswagen Touareg.
Regarding the Volkswagen Touareg, Dobrindt said though the cars shared similar components, it may not have the same engine software.
"On the technical question, it is assumed that this vehicle has a similar parameter set but identical construction does not mean that the same software was used in it but it is assumed that the same software was used," he said.
However, Dobrindt said the Transport Ministry considered a hearing with Volkswagen that would uncover truths about engines in similar models.
Volkswagen is expected to pay billions of dollars in federal penalties. The company admitted in 2015 to manipulation of engine software used to cheat emission tests.
Porsche SVU's are being called due to an"unauthorized defeat device". Workers are pictured Mar. 28, 2012 assembling Porsche Cayenne and Panamera cars at an assembly line at the Porsche factory on in Leipzig, Germany. Photo: Getty Images
UPDATE: July 31, 5:05 P.M. EDT
International Business Times received a statement from McDonald's.
“We are committed to running great restaurants that provide our customers with high quality food, service and a clean environment. The tray pictured is designed to catch any leaks from the equipment seals which protects other parts of the machine. This part does not come into contact with the ice cream served and is required to undergo regular and timely cleaning, ” said Terri Hickey, a spokesperson for McDonald’s Corporation, in an email. 
Original Story:
Photos of a moldy ice cream machine tray from a locally owned McDonald’s franchise in LaPlace, Louisiana, caused outrage online and a response from the headquarters … in China.
The viral photos were posted online by an 18-year-old who worked at the restaurant for five months.
READ: Chipotle Norovirus Is Back: 135 Sick After Eating At Fast Food Chain
"I was completely shocked by what I saw,” the employee told Buzzfeed, who only identified him as Nick. “I thought [the machine] would be cleaned regularly.”
Nick said that he discovered the moldy tray when cleaning ice cream that he accidentally spilled.
In China, McDonald’s posted a statement on Weibo, a Chinese micro-blogging site, and its corporate website.
“We're paying attention to the information being reposted today online about U.S. ice cream machines,” read the statement, according to Reuters on Wednesday. “In China, ice cream machines used at McDonald's restaurants are automatically disinfected every day at a set time to ensure food safety.”
The American McDonald’s site and social media are bereft of such a statement.
The incident happened a month ago, and the photos were posted on Nick’s Twitter account on July 14.
This came out of McDonald's ice cream machine in case y'all were wondering... pic.twitter.com/DTXXpzE7Ce
— nick (@phuckyounick) July 14, 2017
The employee violated the company’s social media policy which states: “In order to protect the McDonald’s brand, we do not use social media to undermine the goodwill, reputation, development and/or operation of McDonald’s, our products, our services and our people.”
Nick told Buzzfeed that he was pulled aside by a manager a week ago and was fired.
"The working conditions were ridiculous — everyone was inappropriate and nothing was clean," he said. “They banned me from that McDonald's.”
McDonald’s did not respond to International Business Times’ request for comment Thursday,  but did respond to Buzzfeed.
“(We are) committed to running great restaurants (with) high-quality food, service, and a clean environment,” said a McDonald’s spokesperson to Buzzfeed.
“This is a part of our soft-serve equipment that does not come into contact with any food and is required to undergo regular and timely cleaning,” the representative stated.
Nick kept the pictures for two weeks before posting them online.
“I shared it because I wanted to let people know what they’re consuming, and how disgusting the conditions are,” he said.
Social media was also disgusted, with numerous posts about the incident. Animal rights organization PETA also chimed in.
As if you needed another reason to stay away from McDonalds _ The mold from this ice cream machine is horrifying. https://t.co/gfkhETISqi
— PETA (@peta) July 27, 2017
Somebody Told Me That McDonalds Has Mold In Their Ice Cream , Now I'm Scared To Get Ice Cream There .
— reesa _ (@xConceited_) September 2, 2013
Maggots pic.twitter.com/Dfxv1y3fV9
— Ä(v)åNÐª (@MiseryGoddess) July 16, 2017
READ: What Does Donald Trump Eat Everyday? The President Loves Fast Food, For All 3 Meals
Former McDonald's employees also commented about the incident.
When I used to work at McDonald's, we used to clean and dry off every thing everyday. And check for mold every week. This is just a incident
 
So I see nothing's changed since I worked for MickeyD's 17 years ago. __ we had weird white alive things in the machine WITH the ice cream
— LowDownLorettaBrown (@TranscendentMe) July 16, 2017
hijden (@Mrhijden) July 27, 2017
The American Legislative Exchange Council, or ALEC, had its 44th annual conference in Denver last week, and just as she’s done since 2013, Wisconsin Democratic state  representative Chris Taylor, one of only a handful of Democratic lawmakers among the conference’s 1,600 attendees, was there to get a sneak peek at the legislation that will cross her desk next year.
ALEC describes itself as “America’s largest nonpartisan, voluntary membership organization of state legislators,” connecting state lawmakers with “experts” to “discuss business and economic issues facing the states.” But to its critics, ALEC represents a dangerous corporate influence on public policy and a way for corporate America to write and disseminate laws.
Read: The Koch Brothers Want A New Constitution — And They’re Closer Than You Think
The group brings corporate lobbyists and lawmakers together to craft “model legislation” that is then introduced by lawmakers throughout the states. Over the years, the group has helped bring Florida’s “stand your ground”  gun law to states across the country and initiated many state voter ID laws that critics say are attempts to suppress voting rights for groups likely to vote Democratic.

While the group is officially nonpartisan, the policies it crafts and pushes are pro-business and anti-regulation and have an unmistakably conservative bent. According to Taylor, she has never met another Democratic lawmaker at an annual conference, which was headlined this year by Education Secretary Betsy DeVos and last year by then-Indiana Gov. Mike Pence.
There’s no way to definitively know who is a member of ALEC — the group says a quarter of the country’s lawmakers are members but won’t disclose a roster. As a  501(c)(3) tax-exempt charity,  its donors are also secret, although the  Koch brothers are known contributors. ALEC also refuses to disclose which corporations are members, although the companies that have left ALEC in protest in recent years is a who’s who of the Fortune 500: BP, Google, Microsoft, Coca-Cola and Amazon have all left the group over its more controversial policies, which include opposing efforts to curb climate change and, as the  documentary  13th argues, embracing policies that drive mass incarceration.  

Taylor spoke to International Business Times this week about what she saw at the ALEC conference, how it compared to years past, and the group’s call for a constitutional convention to write new amendments that would limit the power and largesse of the federal government. What follows has been edited for length and clarity. 
Why did you first choose to start going to the ALEC annual conference?
I had a colleague who had joined ALEC and who had gone to a couple conferences. He went off to Congress and I was redistricted into his seat. (  Note: Taylor is referring to Democratic congressman Mark Pocan, the “original ALEC spy .”)  The two of us started going because we saw so many bills that we had never heard of, that people weren’t asking for, and they were coming from ALEC. That’s what I discovered in the process and that’s why I kept going — to get a heads-up on what the right is doing next, but also to expose where these policies come from. People should know these policies should be coming from  them. The public isn’t asking for these policies. These corporations are working with right-wing think tanks and the legislators are the foot soldiers.
Based on what you’ve seen, how would you describe ALEC?  
I really think of them as a menage a trois between multinational corporations, right-wing think tanks and legislators that are pushing policies that are about maximizing corporate profits. That’s the foundational issue, in my opinion. It’s about cutting taxes and regulations in general. In my opinion, the whole network is really designed to advance the corporate interest of their members.
There are parts that are extremely disturbing to me. It’s disturbing these policies don’t come from the public, and yet they are dominating, I see them dominating discussions in my state legislature and around the country as well. ALEC doesn’t value, in my opinion, the democratic process. They are pro-voter ID laws and against any campaign finance regulations on free speech grounds. Their fundamental tenets are extremely anti-democratic. It’s very disturbing.
I also have to say this grew out of, apparently, the same movement that produced all of these right-wing think tanks that formed in the early 1970s. ALEC, the Heritage Foundation, all came from the  Powell memo. Before he was a Supreme Court Justice, Lewis Powell warned against ceding capitalism to the hippies. And so ALEC has been working for 44 years now. It has spent a lot of time and tons and tons of money on the infrastructure that they have, which is a really powerful infrastructure. They’ve figured out you can get a lot more done at the state level than at the federal level.
We don’t have any kind of infrastructure like this on the left, nothing like it. Of course, we’d never have an infrastructure so corporate-dominated, but even how they have think tanks and how they network together, we don’t have that. And the corporations direct the agenda and provide all the money. We have nothing that is like this on the left.
What was different at this year’s conference?
This year is obviously different because Republicans control everything. They control the White House and Congress, so the attitude is no longer just rallying against [Barack] Obama. I heard a lot more frustration in some ways, because now the Republicans control everything and they are having such trouble with health care.
The energy people are super happy though. They see tons of opportunity under Trump. But the big push was to amend the federal constitution using an  Article V constitutional convention. There is a very vocal segment in ALEC that has concluded that the whole government is corrupt, even Republicans. So a new constitutional convention is the only way to get what they want, which is really a rollback of regulations and taxes. They have not been successful in getting Congress to pull back the social safety net and Medicare, to repeal the Clean Water Act, the Clean Air Act, they haven’t got rid of the EPA. I believe that the Article V constitutional convention is a way to get those done in really sneaky ways. They don’t say to the public, “We don’t want the EPA, we don’t want Medicare.” They say that at the ALEC conference, but the public isn’t at the ALEC conference.
Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker holds up a one dollar bill as he speaks to the 42nd annual meeting of the American Legislative Exchange Council (ALEC) in San Diego, California, July 23, 2015.  Photo: Reuters
They have a really hard time repealing Medicare, because they have constituents that at least some of them care about. This is really an end run around them, around democracy in some ways. Because they don’t have faith in elected officials to accomplish ALEC’s priorities. And those priorities center around limiting the federal government’s ability to make policy and spend money. So an Article V constitutional convention is how they see they can finally curtail the power of the federal government.
Was the Article V stuff just one of many issues and policy goals discussed at the conference, or was it front and center?
It’s gotten more front and center, honestly. There are two different Article V efforts going on right now, and they are competing and they are critical of each other. There’s the  Balanced Budget Amendment (BBA) Task Force which has been in the works for decades, not anything new. But ALEC devoted a lot of time to the  Convention of States, and they probably paid tens of thousands of dollars to get a workshop. They had [former Senators] Tom Coburn and Jim DeMint there, and Mark Meckler, the  co-founder of the Tea Party Patriots, they had a whole panel, a whole workshop on why the convention effort is so important.
But their effort is much broader than the Task Force’s. They want term limits, they want to limit the power of the federal government in policy, so basically limit the kinds of subject matter the federal government can address. And they want to limit spending. So sort of a three-pronged approach. They were asked by one of the legislators, “Why don’t you join forces with the BBA Task Force and get that done and then focus on the other things?”
Coburn and Meckler basically responded by saying that only working on a balanced budget amendment is not addressing the disease, but only a symptom. Meckler also said, “Look, the balanced budget amendment lost four states this last legislative session.” So four states repealed their call for it, I guess. Meckler basically said they don't have the grassroots capacity to get it done. That’s surprising, because you don't hear a lot of infighting at ALEC. I’ve seen it on the education task force, I’ve seen it some in energy discussions. If there is any representation from renewable energy, they just get shot down and ignored.
But very clearly, the Convention of States, they have a different approach and they don’t believe the BBA Task Force can get it done without a grassroots army. And that’s what they think they have. They have  12 states now and they believe they can get to 34 states, which is the two-thirds you need to call a new constitutional convention, in a couple years.

From my understanding, there’s some confusion, or at least differing opinions, about which states have called for a constitutional conventions, and whether all those calls are cumulative, and count toward the 34 states necessary to call a convention, or whether calls made for different reasons can count together. What’s your understanding?
This is the other thing that Coburn said, that in his opinion the BBA only has 20 to 21 states because so many of the calls are so long ago. He doesn’t believe the language is substantially similar enough to qualify as part of the same count.
On Friday morning, the breakfast was all the BBA Task Force. Don’t know how much they paid, but it was a lot. It was all of them. They brought in  Ken Buck, who is the congressman that supports their efforts.
They had a very different, interesting perspective. They said, “We need money.” They actually asked us to give them money. Then they told us, “We need you to push this balanced budget amendment in these states.” And then they named seven or eight, including Wisconsin.
They believe they have 27 states. They said they wanted to meet with legislators from the states they were targeting and that if we were from one of those states we should come talk to them, because they really need us to push it through.
This is the other interesting thing that happened at their presentation. This Senator Barto from Arizona gets up and says that the Arizona legislature has called for a Convention of States in Phoenix on Sept. 12. And there they will establish rules for an Article V constitutional convention. Every state will have seven delegates to send and two alternates and they said they had a website that was ready to go live any minute… [One Arizona state representative] told me, “What we want to do at this Convention of States is to propose amendments we know Congress isn’t going to do anything with. That will emphasize why we need a constitutional convention.” The point is to underscore Congress’s inaction.
ALEC is known as a group that allows corporations to distribute model legislation to state lawmakers. Did you see that?
Absolutely. Just look at Article V. The first rollout of that, when there was really a push for it was my first ALEC conference in 2013. And sitting a few rows in front of me was Chris Kapenga.  (Republican Wisconsin state Sen. Kapenga recently sponsored   a resolution in the Wisconsin legislature calling for a constitutional convention to introduce a balanced budget amendment. It passed the assembly.) We were told that we needed an Article V convention and we were told to bring this back to our states. I said to myself at the time, “We are definitely going to see this in Wisconsin.” This was in August 2013. By January 2014, he introduced a balanced budget amendment. He didn’t get that idea out of the sky. I like Chris, we have a good banter. But it’s a joke that he thought of it. I was there!

Are there other examples of legislation that you saw there and then saw later in the legislature?
Tons of stuff. God. Honestly, so many. Repealing the  prevailing wage,  right-to-work. We didn’t think of right-to-work, that’s for sure. Tons, so many examples I can’t even think of them all. Just the rollbacks we’ve seen in environmental protections. I think a lot of that’s inspired by ALEC. If Congress, doesn’t act today  (NOTE: the interview took place hours before the U.S. Senate voted to allow debate on the Republican health care bill), I suspect we will see resolutions. They did a resolution calling for limits on Medicaid. They hate the Medicaid expansion, that was like the worst thing ever for them. I suspect if repeal and replace does truly die, what we’re going to see is all of these waivers. States can apply for waivers for Medicare. Big push at ALEC and the Goldwater Institute is for states to apply for waivers. We will see a tsunami of waivers from conservative states.
What’s the relationship between the corporate representatives and the lawmakers there? Is it transactional?
Nobody is saying to me, “You have to vote for this.” Well, actually, that’s not true, there was one guy from the BBA Task Force who did tell me, “You have to get that resolution passed calling for an Article V convention.” They’ve been very aggressive. They’ve been the most aggressive, telling state legislators to get off our butts and rein in the federal government.
Mostly what happens is there are these task force meetings where legislators are pressed to go along with model bills. Certainly, the legislators are not the ones who develop bills. Usually the legislator can’t even coherently talk about the bill, instead it’s the corporate member who talks about it. We are encouraged to go out and get these bills passed. The balanced budget amendment is the most aggressive effort I’ve seen at ALEC. Another time we were told we needed to get our attorneys general to sue the Obama administration over the Clean Power Plan.
There’s nine task forces and a variety of subcommittees. That’s where the work gets done, in the subcommittees. I have found that process mostly controlled by right-wing think tanks. But for whatever reason, I got invited to the energy task force dinner, because I go to those meetings, I guess. I said, “Okay, I’ll go, but I’m not on the task force,” but at some point they retracted the invitation. They must have realized, “Oh, we can’t invite her.”
ALEC staff knows who I am. ALEC CEO Lisa Nelson passed me in the hall and said, “Oh, that’s Chris Taylor.” I almost turned around and said, “Hi Lisa, I’m here!” I have to say they used to be a lot more obnoxious towards me. I don’t feel like I am treated that different, although I don’t get any of their emails even though they do have my email address. Since Lisa Nelson got there, a  lot of the these things happen privately. The change I’ve seen over the last couple years is things happen in private. There are private dinners, more private receptions, things I don’t even know about or that are hard to get into. I’m not told where they are. That’s been a bit of a shift, I would say.
What happens in these task force meetings?
Each task force is supposed to have the same number of private sector members and public sector members, which is what they call the legislators. The private sector members are from big corporations and also right-wing think thanks. They got criticized for this, so they did institute a policy where you couldn’t have one of the private sector members bring a model bill forward. But the hilarious thing is the public members turn to private members to say what the bill is and to explain the bill.
One of my colleagues was asked by the American Federation of Children to talk about a bill, and they couldn’t even do it. They had to have bullet points to talk about the bill and introduce the bill. It really is mostly these other groups writing these policies; it’s not the legislators. And you can’t underestimate the role of these right-wing think thanks. They are at the forefront, and the big money that keeps it running is from the big corporations. They pay $50,000 to $100,000 to be members. Then they have to pay for each sponsorship that they do during the conference.
Why do the legislators go to this? What’s your sense from talking to people there?  
Some go because they are true believers. Others go because they are told to go. They are told this is a good place to go and meet corporate lobbyists to give you money for campaigns. It’s a big networking opportunity. Big shots on the right come. DeVos was there, [Newt] Gingrich, all kinds of congressman, senators, state legislators, governors. All the heavy hitters come in from the policy worlds.
I did meet people at this conference, mostly non-legislators, maybe they were repping a corporation or city, who were not drinking the ALEC kool-aid. Who probably were Democrats, I think; I didn’t ask them. Not everybody there is Republican, with the exception of legislators. I have yet to meet a Democratic legislator at ALEC. I met one lobbyist who was like, “Oh my god, I’ve never met a Democrat here.”
You don’t hear anybody taking issue with anything. Some of the things they say, it’s so flat out wrong, sometimes I can’t help myself and I’ll just say, “That's bullshit.”
Like what?
They say so much stuff about public education. I have two kids in public schools. They don’t have kids in public schools. They say what a success school vouchers have been. That’s bullshit: Milwaukee has had that for 30 years and it hasn’t done anything they’ve hoped for. They say Milwaukee is the best example, but it’s the first city in America to adopt vouchers, so there’s tons of data and tons of research on it, and it didn’t do what conservatives said vouchers were going to do, which was that it was going to improve outcomes for poor kids, especially African-American poor kids. They never mention Milwaukee, it’s been a total failure. I said this. This woman next to me said, “Oh, you’re sassy.”
Will you go back next year?
As long as I see them pushing their agenda in my state, I’ll go.
Jeff Bezos became the richest man in the world Thursday, topping Bill Gates who has held the mantle for a long time. Bezos is currently the CEO of Amazon.com, the company he founded. A 1 percent jump in Amazon’s stock propelled him to the top of the list, according to Forbes.com, which keeps a running list of the world’s billionaires.
With the shakeup on top, who now tops the world's list of richest people?
1. Jeff Bezos — Net Worth: $90.6 billion
Bezos, 53, derives most of his wealth from Amazon.com, the world’s largest online retailer. He owns just below 17 percent of the company's stock. Bezos is originally from Albuquerque, New Mexico; he moved with his family to Texas when he was young and then eventually to Florida.
Bezos went on to study at Princeton and worked on Wall Street in tech after graduating. He started Amazon in 1994, which according to CNN in April is worth around $430 billion. Bezos founded a space travel company, Blue Origin, in 2000.
Bezos purchased the newspaper the Washington Post in $250 million in cash in 2013. The purchase was completely separate from Amazon. He was also one of the first shareholders of Google.
Bezos married his wife, MacKenzie, in 1993 and together they four children.
READ: Jeff Bezos Net Worth: Twitter Reacts To Richest Man In The World
2. Bill Gates — Net Worth: $90 billion
Gates, 61, launched Microsoft with Paul Allen in 1975, and it went on to become the largest PC software company in the world. He was once Microsoft’s CEO and largest shareholder but has left the day-to-day operations of the company and focuses instead on his philanthropy work with his wife, Melinda. Together they created the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, which has gifted billions of dollars to various causes.
Gates is originally from Seattle and resides there now. He and his wife have three children.
3. Amancio Ortega — Net Worth: $83.3 billion
Ortega, 81, is from Spain and is the richest man in Europe. The secretive billionaire began a clothing store in A Coruña, Spain in 1974 that sold bathrobes. In 1975 he opened his first Zara, which catapulted him into a fast fashion empire. Zara is now part of the Inditex Group, a multi-national clothing conglomerate started by Ortega. The company went public in 2001, with Ortega as its CEO. He stepped away from day-to-day operations in 2011. He has been married twice: first to Rosalía Mera from 1966 to 1986, and then to Flora Pérez Marcote in 2001. He has three children.
4. Warren Buffett — Net Worth: $74.3 billion
Buffett, 86, is from Omaha, Nebraska. Through his holding company, Berkshire Hathaway, he became one of the richest men in the world. Buffett is still the company’s CEO, president and chairman of its board. Known for living frugally, he takes home a salary of only $100,000 as the executive of Berkshire Hathaway, deriving most of his wealth from stock in the company. Buffett is also well-known for his philanthropy and has partnered with Gates to give away a majority of his wealth.
Buffett has had two wives: Susan Thompson, whom he married in 1952, and Astrid Meeks, whom he married in 2006 after Thompson died.
READ: Donald Trump Criticizes Amazon And CEO Jeff Bezos, 5 Other Controversial Statements In Bezos-Trump Feud
5. Mark Zuckerberg — Net Worth $72.8 billion
Zuckerberg, 33, is the founder of Facebook, which he started in a Harvard dorm in 2004. Zuckerberg is also known for his philanthropic pursuits, joining both Gates and Buffett in an attempt to better the world. Originally from White Plains, New York, Zuckerberg dropped out of Harvard and moved to Palo Alto, California to work on Facebook.
Zuckerburg is married to Priscilla Chan, whom he met at Harvard. The two have one child together and plan to donate 99 percent of their Facebook shares through their charitable organization, the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative.
 As New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo positions himself for a 2020 presidential bid, he has strongly condemned Republicans’ health care bill as a giveaway to the insurance industry. New York Mayor Bill de Blasio has  echoed that criticism. At the same time, though, the two high-profile Democrats have teamed up to deliver a big taxpayer gift to a major health insurer — one that has given big money to Democratic political groups. The gift also includes side benefits for another major Cuomo donor.
In June, New York state and city agencies announced $34 million in tax credits for Aetna — the health insurance giant that threatened to pull out of Obamacare exchanges as it tried to persuade federal regulators to approve a controversial merger. Aetna secured the tax credits after giving $500,000 in the last three years to the Democratic Governors Association, which has supported Cuomo’s gubernatorial campaigns and which appointed Cuomo policy chair in 2016.
Under the terms of the deal, Aetna will move into a New York City building owned by Vornado, which is run by Cuomo megadonor Steve Roth. He and his wife have given the governor over $344,000 since 2007, with most of that money coming in since Cuomo was elected governor in 2011. The state tax incentives from Cuomo’s administration will effectively subsidize the rent paid to Roth’s firm and the improvements to Roth’s property mandated by the terms of the tax credits. (Roth was recently appointed by Cuomo to a task force to redevelop Penn Station and he is also an adviser on President Donald Trump’s infrastructure privatization plans.)
Andrew Cuomo, Governor of New York, speaks to members of the press at Trump Tower in New York City. Photo: Reuters
Economic development in New York state has a recent history of favoring those politically connected to the governor. A 2016 indictment in a corruption probe pursued by former U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara alleged, among other charges, that a construction deal worth $750 million was steered to Louis Ciminelli, a major Cuomo donor. The case is ongoing. Separately, a 2013 New York Times investigation found that Empire State Development, the state agency responsible for economic development, hired — and in several cases created new jobs for — relatives of major Cuomo donors.
Governor Cuomo’s office did not respond to multiple requests for comment from International Business Times. In the weeks since the Aetna deal was announced via press release, the Cuomo and De Blasio administrations have declined to release documents detailing the taxpayer subsidies.
Aetna is receiving the subsidies only seven years after New York state regulators fined it $1.6 million for failing to provide consumers’ rights information and explanations of benefits to its subscribers. The company was fined another $500,000 in 2014 for violating consumer protection law. Cuomo himself heralded the 2014 action as a victory for consumers over insurers. “Our administration will continue our work to ensure that consumers are fully informed of their rights and insurance companies meet their obligations,” he said. Aetna also paid a $1 million federal fine in 2015 for giving inaccurate information about pharmacy benefits to its customers.
The multimillion-dollar taxpayer subsidies will more than offset the fines that New York has collected from the insurance giant. 
The taxpayer subsidy for Aetna spotlights how, while state and municipal budget constraints have forced cuts to social services and layoffs of public workers, lucrative corporate incentives continue to flow out of public coffers to politically connected companies. In all, states and cities are giving away roughly $50 billion a year in subsidies, mostly for jobs already in the United States. The subsidies flow even to companies that are  immensely profitable — and that already receive other forms of taxpayers largesse. Aetna posted a profit of $2.9 billion in 2016, while Chairman and CEO Mark Bertolini earned $17.3 million in salary, bonuses and stocks. If you calculate the gains in value on restricted stock between 2013 and 2015, as the Hartford Courant did, his total compensation was $41 million for the year.
Proponents of the insurance industry incentives in New York say that the taxpayer subsidy makes sense. Cuomo’s Empire State Development Agency touted the Aetna deal, saying that it would create 250 high-income jobs in the city.
“Aetna’s decision to headquarter in New York is further proof that our economic development strategies are working, actively and effectively attracting companies to New York to grow and diversify,” said Amy Varghese, Empire State Development’s press secretary, in an email to IBT. “This is a Fortune 50 company adding 250 well-paying jobs to our economy and extending two of our premier industries — tech and life sciences. The Empire State is open for business and we have the workforce, the infrastructure and the global access to prove it.”
A trader points up at a display on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange, Aug. 20, 2012. Photo: Reuters/Brendan McDermid
However, critics argue that such subsidies are an inefficient use of taxpayer money, do not generate revenue for public coffers and do not actually motivate relocation decisions. For each job created through its relocation, Aetna is receiving $134,200 in city and state tax breaks.
“At that price, it’s very doubtful that New York taxpayers will ever break even,” said Greg Leroy, executive director of the nonprofit watchdog Good Jobs First, which tracks corporate subsidies in economic development. “The calculation you have to do here is, how many years would it take for the average new Aetna employee to pay $134,000 more in state and local taxes than they and their families will consume in public services. And that’s a long time if ever, frankly, because the average state government isn’t running a surplus and making a profit off of taxes.”
According to data compiled by Good Jobs First, the top 10 companies in the health care sector have gotten $5.8 billion in taxpayer subsidies since 1992. Six health insurers have received a total of $259 million in state and local subsidies in those years. That includes $106.9 million for Cigna, $56.9 million for Anthem, and $37.4 for UnitedHealth — which just reported a single-quarter 30 percent jump in profits after leaving the Affordable Care Act’s exchange. Aetna has previously received $16 million in tax incentives.
“Proponents of tax incentive programs often say there is no cost to these programs because these are incentives going to companies that wouldn’t relocate otherwise,” Nate Jensen, a professor of government at the University of Texas, who has extensively studied state tax incentives around the country, told IBT. “But my research shows that the vast majority of these companies were coming anyway.“Cities and states use these incentive programs despite their inefficiency because offering incentives allows politicians to take credit for investments into their district, even if the incentive wasn’t the deciding factor,” Jensen said.
In recent years, states have waged an escalating border war to try to lure companies from one another, creating a situation in which taxpayers are paying to move existing American jobs from one part of the country to another. While there have been some federal initiatives to discourage some subsidies, and some attempts at regional truces to reduce interstate arms races, there has been no comprehensive federal restriction on such incentives. The result: an explosion in such spending.
“Connecticut’s loss is not New York’s gain,” wrote Bill Lipton and Lindsay Farrell, directors of the Working Families Party in New York and Connecticut, in an editorial for the Albany Times Union. “In states across America, legislators have been pressured into a toxic game of cross-border business poaching that drives millions of dollars in tax breaks and subsidies to wealthy executives — draining funds we need to invest in infrastructure, schools, parks, and other public goods that is the bedrock of economic health.”
The controversial Aetna deal comes only five years after a similar fight over Connecticut’s deal for Cigna, which continues to generate political outrage.
Under Aetna’s relocation agreement, New York State is giving Aetna $24 million in tax credits over 10 years. Empire State Development gave incentives in three categories: $18 million tied to the creation of 250 new jobs, $1.5 million for capital investments, and an additional $4.5 million at ESD’s discretion for “targeted industries.”
The $1.5 million “Excelsior Investment Tax Credit” is given for up to the value of 2 percent of a company’s investments. With that credit, Aetna is obligated to make a capital investment of $75 million. The company has pledged $84 million to upgrade and equip Vorando’s space at 61 Ninth Avenue, thereby increasing the value of Roth’s property. In effect, city and state taxpayers are subsidizing upgrades and rent to a Cuomo donor’s company.
In addition, Crain’s reports that the asking rent for Vornado’s 145,000 square foot office building was $150 per square foot, more than double the average office rent in Manhattan. If Aetna were to pay that price, the company would pay rent of $21.75 million per year to Roth’s firm. The actual lease terms are unknown, as neither Empire State Development nor Aetna would release them.
New York City skyline as seen from Top of the Rock. Photo: Katie Haugland/Flickr
Separately from the state, New York City is giving Aetna a $5 million sales tax credit over 18 months and another $4.55 million in tax breaks over 10 years.
Critics argue that tax incentives play very little role in a major company’s decision to relocate. “Most research suggests that economic development incentives are largely redundant,” Jensen told IBT. “Incentives are often given to firms that were already going to move to or expand at a given location.” And indeed, while Mayor Rahm Emanuel of Chicago was interested in bringing Aetna to his city, the insurer made its decision about New York before Chicago and Illinois could even put together an incentive package.
Leroy argues that Aetna moved to New York City for the simple fact that it’s New York City. The metropolis is teeming with highly qualified businesspeople and is the financial capital of the country, with unparalleled access to the global marketplace. 
“To pay a company to move to a city with a rich executive talent pool that they were probably going to move to anyway?” said Leroy. “It’s a windfall. New York’s taxpayers are paying companies to do exactly what they would do otherwise.”
President Donald Trump declared on Twitter Wednesday that the U.S. government “will not accept or allow Transgender individuals to serve in any capacity in the U.S. Military.” He cited cost as one of the reasons for the decision.
“Our military must be focused on decisive and overwhelming victory and cannot be burdened with the tremendous medical costs and disruption that transgender in the military would entail. Thank you,” tweeted the president.
READ: Trump's Transgender Military Ban Prompts Right Wing Twitter Reactions
The move is a reversal of a decision by former President Barack Obama that allowed transgender people to serve in the military openly, pay for their transgender issue-related health care, and set a future deadline for allowing transgender people to openly join the military going forward.
The Rand Corporation, a think tank, studied transgender military issues in 2016. The study estimated that there are somewhere between 1,320–6,630 transgender people in active military service out of around 1.3 million service members. Some advocacy groups have estimated the number to be higher.
The study estimated that “extending gender transition–related health care coverage to transgender personnel indicated that active-component health care costs would increase by between $2.4 million and $8.4 million annually, representing a 0.04- to 0.13-percent increase in active-component health care expenditures.”
Therefore, the cost that Trump is referring to for transgender military health care is between $2.4 million and $8.4 million per year. By contrast, the president's semi-regular trips to his Mar-a-Lago resort have cost taxpayers millions for each trip. In fact, examples of excessive and/or wasteful government spending are in no shortage. The following are five things that cost more than transgender military health care — by a long shot.
Trump’s trips to Mar-a-Lago: Around $21 million (so far)
Trump has been to Mar-a-Lago seven times so far, to golf and for other business. The administration has been particularly secretive of when exactly Trump golfs and when he just visits his golf courses to conduct business. In the 26 weeks Trump has been in office, he has spent 41 days visiting any one of his respective golf courses — including Mar-a-Lago. Each trip to Mar-a-Lago costs approximately $3 million, according to the Washington Post in March. The estimate comes from a Government Accountability Office study of a 2013 Barack Obama trip to Palm Beach.
Forest camouflage for Afghan troops: $28 million
The top oversight official in Afghanistan announced Tuesday he was opening a criminal probe into how the Pentagon may have wasted $28 million on forest uniforms in a country that’s only around two percent forest according to McClatchy DC.
20 barely used transport planes for Afghanistan: $486 million
A Department of Defense inquiry looked into a transport plane program in Afghanistan that ended in 2013 that created 20 transport planes that mostly weren’t flown and lacked spare parts. Sixteen of the planes ended up being scrapped for metal for $32,000. The waste was unearthed by ProPublica last year in a study of how $17 billion was wasted in Afghanistan.
READ: Trump's Transgender Military Ban Prompts Right Wing Twitter Reactions
Drug war in Afghanistan, now the world leader in heroin production: $8 billion
This figure also came from the ProPublica study. In the middle of the United States' ongoing war in Afghanistan in 2007, the United Nations found that 93 of percent non-pharmaceutical-grade opiates originated in Afghanistan.
Administrative waste: $125 billion
The Department of Defense commissioned a study issued in 2015 that identified how the department could save $125 billion over five years with no layoffs or reductions in military personnel. The Pentagon tried to kill the study because they thought it would make them look bad in front of Congress and possibly lead to budget cuts, according to the Washington Post last year.
Tech moguls Elon Musk and Mark Zuckerberg butted heads Tuesday over the potential threat that artificial intelligence, aka AI, poses to the human race. The Facebook CEO has been praised for his knowledge of AI, but his SpaceX CEO rival has a less complimentary view.
The SpaceX CEO has said he believes the world will meet its end because of AI, while Zuckerberg believes the AI is harmless. 
Read: Elon Musk, Boring Company Post Video Of Underground Transportation Car Elevator
Musk tweeted that Zuckerberg's comprehension of AI is "limited."  A Twitter user tweeted Musk an article that highlighted Zuckerberg's opposing thoughts on AI, further igniting the geek war between the tech moguls.  
I've talked to Mark about this. His understanding of the subject is limited.
— Elon Musk (@elonmusk) July 25, 2017
Zuckerberg fired back, sharing a post on his Facebook profile Tuesday about his faith in AI. He attached a link to an award-winning paper in his post, which discussed the power behind neural networks — a computer system modeled on the human brain and nervous system. 
"One reason I'm so optimistic about AI is that improvements in basic research improve systems across so many different fields — from diagnosing diseases to keep us healthy, to improving self-driving cars to keep us safe, and from showing you better content in News Feed to delivering you more relevant search results," Zuckerberg wrote. 

He added, "Every time we improve our AI methods, all of these systems get better. I'm excited about all the progress here and its potential to make the world better."
Read: Elon Musk Says Mark Zuckerberg's Understanding Of AI Is 'Limited'
What led Musk to tweet about Zuckerberg's "limited" AI knowledge? Zuckerberg had responded to a Facebook user's question about Musk's anti-AI views.
"With AI especially, I'm really optimistic," Zuckerberg responded during Sunday's Facebook Live session. "I think that people who are naysayers and kind of try to drum up these doomsday scenarios — I just, I don't understand it. I think it's really negative and in some ways, I actually think it is pretty irresponsible."

Musk has warned of the potential dangers of AI for years, as pointed out by the Independent, who also reported that the Telsa owner discussed the necessity of increased AI regulations with a group of governors at the National Governors Association in July. Musk claimed that the "fundamental risk to the existence of human civilization" is threatened by AI.  
Zuckerberg, on the other hand, is comfortable navigating his way around AI — even using AI to enhance Facebook. CNN reported in 2016 that the Facebook founder announced his aims to cultivate an AI personal assistant for his home. Perhaps underscoring that there are many skeptics — like Musk — who are fearful of the potential of AI, one user commented on Zuckerberg's post, writing, "just don't accidentally create skynet," making reference to the "Terminator" franchise.
Mark Zuckerberg, pictured February 22, 2016 delivering his keynote conference at World Mobile Congress in Spain, the Facebook CEO/Founder and Elon Musk are discrediting each other's knowledge of AI. Photo: Getty Images
Follow me on Twitter @dory_jackson
Mega-retailer Walmart reportedly joined business and government officials in Washington Wednesday to unveil a plan to boost growth in the domestic manufacturing sector. Company executives said the plan would generate an estimated 1.5 million jobs in the United States.
Walmart proposed 10 policy plans to boost U.S. manufacturing jobs that the company claimed might "recapture" an estimated $300 billion of the $600 billion worth of imported consumer goods.
READ: Amazon Could Launch Stand-Alone Messaging App 'Anytime,' Here Are The Possible Features Included
Walmart’s "policy roadmap" proposal included building vocational schools, reducing costs for private companies to train workers, rebranding U.S. manufacturing to draw workers and increase demand for American-made products. Other proposals included creating flexible compliance guidelines for small businesses, broadening tax deductions to promote manufacturing investment and strengthening trade agreements.
The company claimed there was a lack of available and capable workers and proper financing to fund U.S. manufacturers prevented growth in the manufacturing sector. The world’s biggest retailer, which devoted efforts to sourcing $250 million worth of U.S. made products in 2013, claimed it identified those obstacles while working with suppliers during the past four years.
Cindi Marsiglio, Walmart's vice president of U.S. Sourcing and Manufacturing, talked about those challenges and how the company planned to spark job growth.
"As we’ve worked over the last four years alongside our suppliers toward our goal to source an additional $250 billion in products that support American jobs, we’ve learned a great deal about the challenges our suppliers face in domestic manufacturing," Marsiglio told Fox Business Wednesday. "The good news is we’ve also learned how to overcome the challenges and, because of our experience, Walmart is uniquely positioned to help facilitate broad engagement in accelerating the expansion of U.S. manufacturing."
Marsiglio's statement came during a time when President Donald Trump promised to boost job growth in the U.S. manufacturing sector. Earlier this month, the White House held its "Made in America" week, showcasing companies and products developed across America.
With the aid of an analysis by the Boston Consulting Group and Walmart sourcing data, Walmart claimed that every $100 billion retained domestically had potential to generate over 500,000 manufacturing jobs that could, in turn, create an extra 1.5 million jobs.
Walmart said that it discussed the proposals during a meeting with representatives of business, government and non-governmental organizations in Washington D.C.
READ: Walmart Developing Facial Recognition System That Identifies Unhappy Customers
U.S. Representative Tom Reed (R-NY), co-chair of the House Manufacturing Caucus, cited the importance of the manufacturing sector and how technological advancement opened the door for economic growth.
"Enhancing US manufacturing is a top priority of mine," Reed told Fox Business. "Manufacturing is an advancing field where new technologies will open doors to job creation and economic growth."
He added, "We must work together to remove barriers so that we are more competitive and good paying jobs are once again created right here in the United States."
The mega retailer Walmart planed to create 1.5 million jobs. Carla Matus is seen restocking a shelf at a Walmart store in Miami, Florida on Nov. 24, 2015. Photo: Getty Images
A breakthrough in the disappearance of Flight MH370 could be made within the next four years, Malaysia Airlines CEO Peter Bellew said Wednesday. The flight went missing on March 8, 2014, with 239 people on board on its way to Beijing from Kuala Lumpur.
"(Given) the advances in scientific research around the location where the aircraft may have gone down ... I personally would be very surprised if in the next three or four years, we don't get a breakthrough. I think that's the timescale we're looking at," Bellew told CNBC.
Read: Missing Flight MH370 Search Reveals Mysteries Of Deep Ocean
Despite a multimillion-dollar search in remote parts of the southern Indian Ocean, the Boeing 777-200 could not be found. Several debris pieces also washed up at various locations but could not unravel the mystery behind the disappearance of the jet. 
Last week, Australia released maps of the ocean floor where Flight MH370 was believed to have crashed. However, authorities have released information collected during the search of the plane in detailed maps of the sea floor, and which many scientists think could be useful in future ocean research.
The search for the plane was called off in January but Australian authorities said it’s possible the search could continue in the future if concrete evidence about the jet's location was found.
“We remain hopeful that new information will come to light and that at some point in the future the aircraft will be located,” Australia’s Transport Minister Darren Chester said earlier.
On July 13, Seychelles Civil Aviation Authority (SCAA) said two debris pieces found in the island nation of Seychelles could possibly be from the missing Flight MH370.
"The direction of flow of the sea currents make it likely that the (debris) came from the general direction where other parts (of MH370) have been found in Indian Ocean countries," a senior SCAA official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, told Reuters at the time. The SCAA said in a statement they contacted Malaysian authorities "who have shown an interest, and with whom we expect to work closely."
The plane's disappearance has also raised several conspiracy theories which went as far as a hijack or a terrorist attack. Some theorists also claimed the pilot of the plane may have deliberately crashed the plane.
Read: Possible MH370 Debris Found In Seychelles, Malaysia Notified
In March, an independent analysis by a team of aviation and mathematical experts concluded the aircraft was in a “spiral dive” moments before it crashed into the ocean. The report confirmed the Australian Transport Safety Bureau’s conclusion about the plane’s final moments.
“Considering that the newly available data generally support the conclusions of the official investigators, it remains a mystery as to why Malaysia withheld the data for so long and why it chose to release the data at this time,” Victor Iannello of the Independent Group said, the West Australian reported..
Kaspersky has launched its free antivirus globally. The antivirus can scan files and emails and protect PCs from malware. The company has been under the scanner of the U.S. government recently because of its Russian origins. 
By offering the software for free, the company might have played a master stroke as prohibiting people from downloading it will be hard to implement, especially since it offers free features that competitors such as Avast and Norton do not provide.
Read: Emails Show Possible Ties Between Kaspersky Lab, Russian Government Agencies 
The company claims that it will not monetize the freeware by running ads, but instead use the data to improve machine learning for its other offerings. The company did not specify what kind of data it would be collecting though.
Like any free software, it is offering limited features to users — features such as VPN, parental controls and online payment protection are lacking. What you will have though is safe web surfing, safe usage of portable media storage devices, phishing protection and protection against infected files. The company claims that the software can detect cyber threats regardless of their origin or intention. It also says that the freeware i.e. the free software, will not perform user habit tracking or infringe confidentiality. Curiously, it mentions confidentiality i.e. agreed upon protections in the user-agreement, not privacy.
The U.S. Senate has mulled banning Kaspersky’s use by the military. It has been investigated by the FBI for endangering cyber security since the company might be “vulnerable to Russian government influence” according to a summary of the legislation.
According to Senator Jeanne Shaheen (D-New Hampshire), “ties between Kaspersky Lab and the Kremlin are very alarming.” The bill will need to be passed by the Senate and House of Representatives and be signed by President Donald Trump in order to become law.
Kaspersky is one of the biggest antivirus companies globally. According to Reuters, Russia might actually undertake retaliatory action, if any ban on it was to take place.
There have been no objections about its usage by regular citizens.
While Kaspersky is offering its software for free globally, its Russian origins will cast a shadow over its adoption in America. Lawmakers have in the past raised concerns that the firm’s software might be used by Russia as a backdoor to attack American computer networks especially since many U.S. intelligence agencies claim that Russia hacked into and interfered in the 2016 U.S. presidential election.
Read: Kaspersky CEO Agrees To Give U.S. Government Source Code To Security Products
The company has tried to reassure the U.S. government about its credibility with its CEO Eugene Kaspersky offering to appear before the U.S. senate.
While chances are slim that the software might be used for snooping since it is a private company with global offerings, not just focussed on U.S., it is noteworthy that once you install the Kaspersky free antivirus, it will have access to all your files and your web surfing.
An investigation by the Securities and Exchange Commission of some cryptocurrency transactions that took place between April and May 2016 has found that even virtual financial offerings, such as cryptocurrencies based on blockchain technology, are subject to federal securities laws. In the specific incident under investigation, which the report found did not comply with the law, the SEC has decided not to press charges, however.
The SEC was investigating the sale of DAO Tokens, created and sold by German company Slock.it UG and based on cryptocurrency Ether, which is in turn based on the Ethereum blockchain. Between April 30 and May 28 last year, Slock.it raised Ether worth about $150 million through the sale of approximately 1.15 billion DAO Tokens, according to the SEC report. These tokens could then be bought and sold on secondary online platforms, without any regulatory oversight.
The fact that in the weeks and months following May 28, 2016, among the many tens of thousands of transactions made for DOA Tokens, many were made by U.S. citizens could have prompted the SEC to look into the matter.
Read: Hackers Stole $37 Million Worth Of Ether Cryptocurrency
In a statement accompanying the investigative report, the SEC said: “offers and sales of digital assets by ‘virtual’ organizations are subject to the requirements of the federal securities laws.” It referred specifically to some of the terminology used by virtual currency traders, such as “Initial Coin Offerings” (ICOs) and “Token Sales.” The report found that all such forms of cryptocurrencies were securities, insofar as the SEC was concerned, and therefore “issuers of distributed ledger or blockchain technology-based securities must register offers and sales of such securities unless a valid exemption applies.”
The seal of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission hangs on the wall at SEC headquarters in Washington, D.C., June 24, 2011. Photo: Reuters/Jonathan Ernst
Since much the same rules will apply to cryptocurrency transactions as for any other sort of currency or securities trade, security exchanges that allow for trading of such digital currency need to register with the SEC. Even those participating in offerings that have not been registered with the SEC may be held liable for violating the law, the SEC said in its statement.
“The SEC is studying the effects of distributed ledger and other innovative technologies and encourages market participants to engage with us. We seek to foster innovative and beneficial ways to raise capital, while ensuring — first and foremost — that investors and our markets are protected,” SEC Chairman Jay Clayton said in the statement.
Read: Cryptocurrency Initial Coin Offerings Go Mainstream
The Enforcement Division of the SEC was investigating the DAO Token sales to see if they violated the law, or if the offer was covered under exemptions for crowdfunding. Despite finding a violation, the SEC is not bringing charges against Slock.it or its founders in this instance.
Steven Peikin, co-director of the Enforcement Division, said in the statement: “As the evolution of technology continues to influence how businesses operate and raise capital, market participants must remain cognizant of the application of the federal securities laws.”
The Office of Investor Education and Advocacy also issued an investor bulletin Tuesday that contains information about ICOs, as well as on red flags to watch out for, that could indicate possible investment fraud. The bulletin can be found here.
Michael Kors bought luxury shoemaker Jimmy Choo in a £896 million deal Tuesday, according to CNN. Michael Kors' purchase follows a decision made by Jimmy Choo in April to put itself up for sale after struggling to tackle sluggish sales. The deal, which is valued at approximately $1.35 billion USD, has been approved by the Boards of Directors of both brands to help increase future growth.
Jimmy Choo's Chief Executive Officer Pierre Denis will remain in his position. Denis, who has worked with Jimmy Choo since 2012, helped to spark a growth in sales by 11 percent annually. Creative Director Sandra Choi will also maintain her role, leading the company's creative and design teams. 
Read: After Michael Kors' Sales Tank, How Much Money Does The Company Make?
John D. Idol, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Michael Kors, spoke about the purchase on Tuesday in a press release that was originally published on Bussiness Wire.
"We are pleased to announce the acquisition of Jimmy Choo, an iconic brand with a rich history as a leading global luxury house," Idol said in a statement. "Jimmy Choo is known worldwide for its glamorous and fashion-forward footwear. The company is a leader in setting fashion trends. Its innovative designs and exceptional craftsmanship resonate with trendsetters globally."
Denis also spoke in the press release about the deal, claiming he's "convinced" that this is a great move for both parties.
"We look forward to working closely with the leadership and team at Michael Kors Holdings Limited to further develop our iconic brand," Denis said in the press release. "Our two companies share the same vision of style and trend leadership. Our luxury heritage is the foundation of Jimmy Choo and we will continue to bring our brand vision to consumers globally."
A representative for Michael Kors and Jimmy Choo did not immediately return International Business Times' request for comment. 
Read: Is Melania Trump The Richest First Lady? Donald's Wife Loves Costly High Fashion Brands Gucci, Michael Kors
The deal to acquire Jimmy Choo comes after Michael Kors confirmed the company's decision to eliminate up to 125 stores in June, a plan that would be active over the next two years to help diversify the company. Michael Kors claimed they wanted to tap into the online shopping trend, expanding brand recognition in Asia as well.
The London-based brands' collaborative effort was inked to help improve both companies' standings with consumers who purchase luxury attire and accessories. Since Michael Kors is also facing a financial setback, how does Jimmy Choos fit into its plans? 
Idol claimed acquiring Jimmy Choo is ideal because the company "is poised for meaningful growth in the future and our company is committed to supporting the strong brand equity that Jimmy Choo has built over the last 20 years." He also added that keeping Jimmy Choo's current leadership intact "will ensure that the DNA of Jimmy Choo is maintained as we work together to continue to grow the brand globally." 
ABC News reported Tuesday that shares for Jimmy Choo have improved following the announcement, increasing by over 17 percent in London alone. Michael Kors' shares are down by 2.5 percent. 
Time will determine whether or not this newly confirmed deal will pay off.
Designer Michael Kors, pictured February 15, 2017 posing backstage before the Michael Kors Collection Fall 2017 runway show in New York City, the designer's luxury company of the same name bought Jimmy Choo. Photo: Getty Images
Follow me on Twitter @dory_jackson
Fast-food chain Taco Bell (NYSE: YUM) and ride-sharing app Lyft are teaming up for a new venture to make late nights tastier. The companies will be testing a service called “Taco Mode” for the next two weeks in Newport Beach, California, according to the New York Times Tuesday. The service will incorporate a stop at a Taco Bell drive-through when taking a Lyft ride to a destination.
After the pilot program, the two companies plan to take the service national next year.
READ: Taco Bell To Host Weddings At The Chain's Las Vegas Store
“I kind of think of this like inverse delivery — like we’re delivering you to Taco Bell,” said Taco Bell’s Chief Marketing Officer Marissa Thalberg to the New York Times. “You’re being delivered to the food as opposed to having to get in your own car and drive.”
The companies are trying to cash in on a trend of people using the ride-sharing app like Uber and Lyft for late-night eats. The companies currently do not have stated policies on what to do if passengers ask drivers to go to a drive through. Drivers, who typically use their own cars, may be weary of people eating messy fast food late at night.
“Several times I said no to food and they ask why and I explained what the last idiot did of making a mess and each time the present idiot would promise to not make a mess, spill, waste, etc. then they do it anyway!” said one Uber driver in an online forum.
Taco Bell isn’t paying Lyft, and the companies are looking at the venture as “cocreating an experience together.”
“Marketing today is so much about customer experience, not branding and advertising,” said Melissa Waters, Lyft’s head of marketing, to the New York Times. “We’re really evaluating it from a surprise and delight for our consumer bases with a program like this and both meeting in the middle and developing it on both sides.”
Lyft has done partnerships in the past with Delta and Starbucks, but this is the first time the company will be bringing people specifically to another brand’s location.
READ: Taco Bell Promises Free Tacos For All Americans During The 2017 NBA Finals
Taco Bell’s branding strategy has become much more millennial-focused in the past five years, with innovation and cross-branding strategies like the Doritos Locos Taco which debuted in 2012. Doritos, a Frito-Lay product is owned by Pepsi Company, and Taco Bell, a subsidiary of Yum! Brands, used to be owned by Pepsi as well. Taco Bell has also aimed several of its marketing towards younger eaters and late-night crowds with campaigns such as “the fourth meal” and offering alcohol at some locations.
Yum! Brand’s stocks have steadily risen in the past few years and are currently trading at the highest they’ve been in five years.
LeBron James transformed another small investment into a gold mine. A $1 million investment James and his business partner Maverick Carter — along with financial advisor Paul Wachter of Main Street Advisors — made in Blaze Pizza during 2012 has reportedly grown to $25 million, according to ESPN Tuesday.
Private equity firm Brentwood Associates obtained an unspecified percentage of Blaze Pizza this month that increased the company’s value to about $250 million, sources told ESPN.
READ: LeBron James-Funded Blaze Pizza Is Fastest Growing Restaurant Franchise In History
In conjunction with endorsement profits, James’ stake in the company is worth $35 million to $40 million, sources told ESPN. That estimate doesn’t include his deal with owner Larry Levy, who supervised James’ Miami and Chicago franchises. James, who owns 10 percent of the company, reportedly pocketed some of the money from the deal, but the amount is undisclosed.
Paul Wachter, who advised James on other deals, doesn’t typically advise his clients to invest in restaurants. However, Wachter was apparently impressed with Blaze Pizza and its management team.
"We don't typically advocate for our clients to invest in food businesses," Wachter told ESPN. "The risk-reward equation is not generally that great, and there's a lot of grinding and blocking and tackling, and it takes a while for a concept to go global."
After James and Carter made roughly $30 million from a Beats by Dre investment in 2014, they were on the lookout for their next big deal.
"LeBron and I have always been about finding companies that we truly believe in and putting real money into them," Carter said. "We're not talking putting in $15,000 or $20,000. It's real money plus the expertise, understanding and knowledge that we bring, as well as bringing LeBron's name and likeness to the product."
READ: Miami Marlins Owner Jeffrey Loria Reportedly Suing A Fan, Plans To Seize His Property
After James’ first investment in 2012, the Cavaliers star wasn’t permitted to support Blaze Pizza due to his then-deal with McDonald’s. But the news that James was interested in becoming involved in the business was a big deal, according to Rick Wetzel, owner of Blaze Pizza.
"When he invested in us so early on, he established us as the market leader," Wetzel told ESPN. "He put a star on our forehead as a company that was legitimate."
Impressed with the potential of Blaze Pizza, James and Carter decided to end their deal with Mc Donald’s in 2015. James officially endorsed the fast food pizza chain.
"It was a great partnership with McDonald's, we did some great things on television," James said on Carter's web series, "Kneading Dough." "The potential on what we could make if we just put the time and effort into it exceeded what McDonald's guaranteed me."
James positioned himself as spokesman for the pizza company, immediately influencing success within the enterprise. He often showed support for the company by advertising Blaze Pizza to his 37 million Twitter followers.
You’d be surprised what you can get into on an off day... https://t.co/7VcRXRdanX #MeetRon @BlazePizza
&mdash; LeBron James (@KingJames) April 8, 2016
"Every time LeBron tweets about Blaze, it's like a sonic boom," Elise Wetzel said. "It jump-starts the conversation with tens of millions of people in the U.S. and around the world and leads to a genuine interaction between people who know and love the brand and people who haven't heard of us." 
Allegiant Air reportedly left almost 200 passengers stranded in Las Vegas, Nevada Sunday following a canceled flight to Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, according to FOX 5 Vegas. The airline informed customers that they would not be placed on another flight until Thursday, leaving passengers stranded at McCarran International Airport in Las Vegas for four days after their original scheduled flight.
"This is an unusual situation — canceling without a reschedule is rare, and is only invoked when there are truly no other options available for switching aircraft or rescheduling," Krysta Levy, a spokeswoman for Allegiant Air, told International Business Times. "Unlike many larger carriers, Allegiant does not have daily service to all markets served from Las Vegas. In many instances, these are two-times weekly flights."
Levy added, "All options were explored to get our passengers to their destination, but unfortunately, there were no practical solutions given the heavy Sunday and Monday schedules in our network."
Mechanical issues with the air craft disrupted Allegiant Flight 454 from taking off. The 160 passengers were offered a $300 check but were told it wouldn't arrive in the mail for seven to 10 business days. Passengers could use the check to rebook their flight with Allegiant, or they would receive a refund if they chose not to rebook their flight with the airline.
Read: Ann Coulter Blasts Delta For Removing Her From Airplane Seat, Twitter Reacts
Jennifer Falsetti, a FOX 25 reporter in Oklahoma City, tweeted pictures of the letters passengers on Flight 454 received from Allegiant upon the carrier's cancellation. Allegiant sent an email and traditional mail letter to the flight's passengers.
"We regret to inform you that your upcoming Allegiant flight 454 originally scheduled to to depart McCarran International Airport (LAS) to Will Rogers World Airport (OKC) on Sunday, July 23 at 04:03 pm has been canceled," the apology email read. "Visit Allegiant.com and select Manage Travel to view the options available for your itinerary." 
About 200 Allegiant passengers are stranded in Las Vegas after flight is canceled to OKC. They offer no flights to OKC until Thurs @OKCFOX pic.twitter.com/0hWQD79N51
— Jennifer Falsetti (@JenniferFOX25) July 24, 2017
Airline issues aren't a new phenomenon, but Twitter users have expressed their disdain towards of the carrier following the company's latest scandal, with some deeming it the "worst airline on the planet."
"Your company is a JOKE! My daughter is stuck in Vegas Airport due to you cancelling her flight Customer service IS HORRIBLE," a woman wrote on Twitter, sharing her frustrations with Allegiant in a series of tweets. "@Allegiant told her they could get her to Chicago for an additional 150.00 and she is stuck in O'Hare now with NO LUGGAGE! @Allegiant HAD APPARENTLY LOST HER LUGGAGE....ALONG WITH MANY POTENTIAL CUSTOMERS AFTER THIS!"
One user commented on the frustrated woman's rant, saying, "A dozen of my friends stranded in Vegas until Thurs, and given 300 bucks. They're awful."
Another user tweeted a separate complaint, saying, "Extremely disappointed in @Allegiant . My roommate's flight from Vegas has been cancelled and we're not getting any responses from staff!" 
Some customers tried to make the best of the situation, with one group of friends embarking on a road trip from Las Vegas to Oklahoma City, according to NBC News affiliate KFOR. 
Read: EU Airplane-Style Drone Regulations May Be Issued By 2019
Spokeswoman Levy issued an official apology on behalf of Allegiant for the disruption of customers' travel plans, saying the airline has issued refunds and additional benefits to all passengers who would have boarded flight 454 to Oklahoma City. 
"We sincerely apologize for the interruption to our passengers' travel plans. All passengers have been issued refunds for the flight, as well as an additional $300 to help defray costs associated with the disruption to their plans," she said. "In addition, each passenger has been issued a $150 voucher toward future travel on Allegiant. Passengers were also given the option to be re-accommodated on another Allegiant flight at no charge, for example, some chose to take yesterday’s flight from Las Vegas to nearby Tulsa, OK."
Allegiant Air airplane, pictured September 6, 2005, the airline left 200 passengers stranded after cancelled flight to Oklahoma City. Photo: Getty Images
Follow me on Twitter @dory_jackson
This article was originally published on the Motley Fool.
Next week, tech giant Apple (NASDAQ:AAPL) will report its third-quarter financial results. The quarter is taking place more than halfway through Apple's flagship iPhone cycle and will test Apple's ability to continue putting up big profits ahead of the smartphone's annual refresh.
• Motley Fool Issues Rare Triple-Buy Alert
Apple is scheduled to report its third-quarter results on August 1. Here's what investors should watch when the quarterly update goes live.
iPhone sales
Launched last September, Apple's flagship iPhone 7 and 7 Plus are no longer the hyped, supply-constrained new iPhone models they were in the weeks after they hit Apple stores. As is usually the case when Apple reports its third fiscal quarter, iPhone sales are set to decline sequentially in Q3 2017. The big question, however, is whether iPhone sales during the quarter will increase on a year-over-year basis.
It's not certain that Apple will be able to grow its third-quarter iPhone sales on a year-over-year basis. In Apple's third quarter last year, Apple sold 40.4 million iPhones, down 15% from the third quarter of 2015. However, Apple's year-over-year iPhone sales have returned to growth since the company launched its iPhone 7 and 7 Plus, suggesting the tech giant can post another quarter of iPhone growth in Q3.
Given that the iPhone accounts for over half of Apple's revenue and that management guided for a 2.7% to 7.4% year-over-year increase in total revenue, management likely anticipated slight growth in iPhone sales. Investors should look for an iPhone unit sales-growth rate in the low single digits.
Revenue
With a string of quarters last year of declining revenue still fresh in investors' minds, it would be reaffirming to see Apple report revenue within its guidance range and subsequently extend its recent return to growth. Apple returned to revenue growth in its first quarter of 2017 after reporting three quarters in a row of year-over-year declines. Revenue growth in Q3 would mark Apple's third quarter in a row of year-over-year revenue growth.
• This Stock Could Be Like Buying Amazon in 1997
With the midpoint of Apple's revenue guidance typically proving to be somewhat conservative, investors should look for the company to report third-quarter revenue of $45 billion, toward the high end of its revenue guidance range of $43.5 billion and $45.5 billion. This would represent year-over-year revenue growth of 6.2%, notably higher than the 4.5% year-over-year revenue growth Apple posted in the second quarter of 2017.
Gross profit margin
Another key metric to watch will be Apple's gross profit margin. Apple's gross profit margin, or the tech giant's gross profit as a percentage of revenue, gives investors insight into Apple's ability to maintain its pricing power and economies of scale. Apple's fat profit margin, which has hovered between about 38% and 40% in recent years, is critical to the company's ability to continue raking in profits at current levels.
For Apple's third quarter, management guided for a gross profit margin between 37.5% and 38.5%. This compares to a gross profit margin of 38% in the year-ago quarter. Investors should look for Apple's gross profit margin to come in at the high end of this range. If Apple's profit margin comes in at the low end of guidance -- or below guidance -- investors should look for an explanation from management for the year-over-year decrease in the metric.
• 7 of 8 People Are Clueless About This Trillion-Dollar Market
Stay tuned at The Motley Fool for more Apple stock coverage, as well as for a Foolish take on Apple's third-quarter results when they go live after market close next Tuesday.
Daniel Sparks owns shares of Apple. The Motley Fool owns shares of and recommends Apple. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
This article was originally published on the Motley Fool.
Whole Foods Market (NASDAQ:WFM) reports its fiscal third-quarter earnings on Wednesday after the close of trading. In mid-June, the natural and organic foods grocer announced a departure from the public markets via its sale to Amazon.com (NASDAQ:AMZN). With the transaction slated to close "in the second half of 2017," it's possible that this could be Whole Foods' last reported quarter as a public company.
• Motley Fool Issues Rare Triple-Buy Alert
Given that the iconic non-conventional grocer will soon join the Amazon juggernaut, and shares have now settled within cents of Amazon's offer of $42 per share, why should investors pay attention to this report?
Several persuasive reasons exist. First, and most obviously, until the closing transaction press release is issued, nothing's settled. Shareholders should understand that a chance always exists, however small, that a proposed corporate marriage will hit the rocks before nuptials occur. So if you own a stake in Whole Foods, it's prudent to pay attention to earnings, just in case.
On a related note, for those who want to continue to participate in the company's success, gauging the grocer's top-line rejuvenation is still quite important. Now, the only way to share in Whole Foods' outcomes going forward, and that indirectly, will be to pick up shares in Amazon. But to understate the case, Amazon itself has been a pretty decent investment over the years.
Finally, for investors focused more broadly on the grocery sector, Whole Foods continues to serve as a bellwether. Following the organization's earnings provides useful data points for understanding current grocery trends. 
A different sort of earnings report 
Now that CEO John Mackey and the rest of the management team will no longer have to worry about analysts' expectations, and likely to avoid having to tiptoe around confidential strategy currently being discussed with Amazon, the company has elected to drop its customary conference call with analysts this quarter.
Thus, investors will find that some of the "color" they're used to will be missing from this report. They can, however, expect to be updated on a few key fronts as well as all essential knowledge that shareholders have a right to.
• This Stock Could Be Like Buying Amazon in 1997
As always, comparable sales, or comps, will provide a litmus test of the grocer's current year strength. Amidst an onslaught of competition, Whole Foods is still seeking to stabilize comps, and its projections call for a full-year comps change of "approximately -2.5% or better."
Last quarter, comps came in at minus 2.8%. The drop was precipitated by lower traffic in the form of a 3% drop in transactions. Basket size, i.e., the average purchase size per customer, actually increased by a very slight 0.2%. Through the first two quarters of fiscal 2017, comps have decreased 2.6%.
The comps number this week is a make-or-break figure as far as the company's full-year guidance is concerned. Given that the first six months have hit the bottom of the projected range, any further decline makes it unlikely, with a single quarter remaining, that the company can finish out the year with a negative 2.5% or better showing.
Sales per gross foot, which typically fall high above industry averages, comprise another important benchmark to watch. Whole Foods achieved sales per square foot of $880 last quarter, and it's possible that the closure of nine underperforming locations in the second quarter will have provided a boost to this number.
Finally, shareholders should check on Whole Foods' gross margin, which has slipped roughly 60 basis points during the first half of the year, to 33.8%. As the company has turned slightly more aggressive in offering discounts and promotions to sustain store traffic, its cost of goods sold has inched up in kind.
Whole Foods' management is generally protective of the company's profits, so while a substantial decrease in gross margin isn't expected, it's possible that the reading could slip another 50 to 100 basis points in the third quarter.
• 7 of 8 People Are Clueless About This Trillion-Dollar Market
To sum up, although we may see some merger-related disclosures, investors shouldn't anticipate a detailed strategy rollout when Whole Foods issues its earnings press release on Wednesday. Rather, think of this as a report focused on business fundamentals, which in itself is always good information to consider.
John Mackey, CEO of Whole Foods Market, is a member of The Motley Fool's board of directors. Asit Sharma has no position in any stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool owns shares of and recommends Amazon and Whole Foods Market. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
“I’m not bossy, I’m the boss.”
So proclaims Beyoncé in a video in support of the #banbossy campaign. The campaign highlights how when little boys take charge, they’re often praised for being a “leader.” But when little girls do, they’re more likely to be scolded for being too “bossy.”
And it matters for grownups, too. Research and media stories abound with examples of how gender stereotypes disadvantage women leaders. A woman manager is less likely to be taken seriously by the people who work for her.
When men direct others, they’re often assumed to be assertive and competent. But when women direct others, they’re often disliked and labeled abrasive or bossy.
Our new study puts a twist on this narrative. Gender bias doesn’t merely disadvantage women, it also can disadvantage men. The reason? We don’t just stereotype men and women. We stereotype jobs.
Firefighters and nurses
Many jobs in the economy are gender-stereotyped. Firefighting is thought of as a man’s job, whereas nursing is thought of as women’s work.
Previous studies have shown that these stereotypes – which shape our expectations about whether a man or a woman is a better “fit” for a given job – are powerful because they can bias a whole host of employment outcomes. For instance, they influence the chances that a man or a woman will apply for the job, that he or she will be hired, the pay each would receive and even performance evaluations that determine promotions.
But how quickly do these gender stereotypes get attached to jobs in the first place? And, to what extent might such stereotypes affect the level of authority and respect that people are willing to give the man or woman who works in that job?
How a job gets stereotyped
To answer these questions, we studied a job that is ambiguously related to gender: a microfinance loan manager in Central America.
In this region, the microfinance loan manager job is new and gender-balanced in its composition. Unlike firefighters or nurses – jobs that are already strongly gender-stereotyped – loan managers at the microfinance bank we studied are about 50/50 men and women.
The nature of commercial microfinance makes managers’ positions more gender-ambiguous. Microfinance is associated with the financial industry, which is traditionally masculine. But microfinance also has a legacy of social service and poverty alleviation, which are female-stereotyped activities.
Additionally, in the context we studied, the loan manager job had been around for less than 10 years, making it even less likely that clients would have strong preconceptions about whether it was a “man’s job” or a “woman’s job.”
Loan managers at the bank we focused on are frequently reshuffled from one borrower to another. This quasi-random reshuffling allowed us to observe how borrowers’ repayment patterns differed when they were paired with male and female loan managers. For example, a borrower might be paired with a male manager initially and then transferred to a female manager. This switching process allowed us to examine how clients’ repayment rates varied when the only thing that changed was their managers’ gender.
We examined borrowers’ missed payment rates as a measure of the authority they afford their managers. Making a payment on time signals that the borrower views the manager as someone whose authority is legitimate and whose directives should be followed. In contrast, missing a payment signals that the borrower feels he or she can approach his or her responsibilities to the manager more laxly. When borrowers miss payments, it suggests the manager lacks the ability to secure compliance and therefore lacks authority.
We found that it took only one interaction before clients assigned a gender to the job and began to treat anyone in that role (man or woman) based on that stereotype, which meant less authority if the loan manager position was seen as a “woman’s job.” So if a client’s first manager was a woman, they would tend to miss more payments on their loan – even if later transferred to a male manager – compared with one who was initially paired with a man. These effects persisted even when we accounted for other factors that might affect repayment, like income and loan size.
Male managers whose clients perceived the job as a “woman’s job” experienced an especially large disadvantage compared to male managers whose clients perceived the job as a “man’s job.”
When men stepped in to work with a client who had initially worked with another male loan manager, the client was highly compliant with his directives. But when men stepped in to work with a client who had initially worked with a female loan manager, the client afforded them much less authority. They were much less compliant than they would have been if they had initially worked with a male loan manager.
Gendered jobs harm us all
When gender stereotypes get attached to a job, it biases the authority that people attribute to the man or woman who happens to work in that position. In this way, men experience negative bias when working in positions that others associate with women.
Our findings show that, when men work in a managerial job that people associate with a man and male stereotypes, they are able to wield a substantial amount of authority over clients. But when the very same managerial job happens to be associated with a woman, men who work in that position are viewed as significantly less legitimate sources of authority.
In other words, our study suggests that stereotyping a job as “women’s work” and societal biases that grant women less authority than men harm us all.
Ideally, we want to live in a world where we perform the work that is best suited to our abilities and where an individual in a position of authority receives the same respect, regardless of gender. If we all can support both men and women who work in gender-atypical roles, perhaps we can become less likely to devalue some workers on the basis of arbitrary and old-fashioned gender stereotypes.
Sarah Thebaud, Associate Professor, Sociology, University of California, Santa Barbara and Laura Doering, Assistant Professor of Strategy and Organization, McGill University
This article was originally published on The Conversation. Read the original article.
The Conversation's logo. Photo: The Conversation

A five-year-old British girl who was fined for setting up a lemonade stand without a license has received offers from other events to sell lemonade, reported BBC Sunday. The five-year old daughter of Andre Spicer, a business school professor, set up a lemonade stand to sell cups of lemonade outside Lovebox Festival in east London on July 14.
According to Spicer, his daughter “burst into tears” when four law enforcement officials walked up to her stand and “began reading from a big script explaining that she did not have a trading license.” His daughter was approached by law enforcement within half an hour of setting up.
Read: 10 Best And Worst States To Start A Business Revealed By New Study
They were fined £150 (about $195), packed up the stand and walked home.
“My daughter clung to me screaming, 'Daddy, Daddy, I’ve done a bad thing,'” Spicer said.
Alex's Lemonade Stand that benefits Pediatric Cancer Research located at Belmont Park in Belmont, New York. People gather around it at the start of the 137th Running of the Belmont Stakes at Belmont Park on June 11, 2005. A lemonade stand such as this one is why a 5-year-old British girl was fined.  Photo: Matthew Stockman/Getty Images
After the incident, Spicer wrote an opinion piece in a British newspaper expressing his thoughts on what it revealed about British society and its attitudes towards female entrepreneurship. Since the incident occurred on July 15, Tower Hamlets Council apologized and voided the fine.
“We are very sorry that this has happened,” Tower Hamlets Council tweeted. “We expect our enforcement officers to show common sense and to use their power sensibly. This clearly did not happen.”
Since the incident, various other festivals and events extended invitations for Spicer’s daughter to set up her lemonade stand and sell refreshments.
Borough Market, one of London’s most popular markets, tweeted Spicer, saying, “In all seriousness, would your daughter like to sell some lemonade at Borough Market? We’d love to make that happen for her.”
@andre_spicer in all seriousness, would your daughter like to sell some lemonade at Borough Market? We&#39;d love to make that happen for her _
&mdash; Borough Market (@boroughmarket) July 22, 2017
LeeFest: Neverland also invited Spicer and his daughter to sell lemonade in August at its festival in Kent, England.
Read: Sweden Will Hold Women-Only Music Festival Following Reports Of Sexual Assault
“We have been overwhelmed by the kind response from people across the world. Dozens of festivals, markets and businesses have offered us an opportunity to set up a lemonade stand,” Spicer tweeted. “We hope they will extend this invitation to others who’d love to make a stand. Children could sell home-made lemonade, hand drawn comics or vegetables they have grown."
This summer, we want kids to make a stand. Our response to kind offers following lemonade fine. Spread the word! #MakeAStand pic.twitter.com/ItwyhNMHTn
&mdash; André Spicer (@andre_spicer) July 22, 2017
"This summer, it would be amazing to see children and young people at festivals, markets and businesses across the country showing the positive things they can do," he added.
A rezoning of Manhattan’s Midtown East district that has been in the works since 2013 is nearing the final stage of approval. The rezoning will pave the way for taller skyscrapers — and therefore increased revenue for real estate developers and managers. Donors to Mayor Bill de Blasio are among the biggest beneficiaries of the rezoning.
Several of the real estate firms that benefit from the rezoning have acted as fundraisers or “intermediaries” for de Blasio’s 2017 re-election bid. Political insiders say his nomination and therefore victory are all but assured, but that hasn’t stopped major donors from lining up behind the incumbent mayor. In many cases, company executives, acting as fundraisers, collected donations in the names of their family members, particularly wives — and in one case, an executive’s ex-wife.
Read: When Will Rikers Island Close? New York City Mayor Bill De Blasio Outlines Plan
New York City has one of the most robust systems of campaign finance regulation in the country, with more restrictions placed on contributions than in federal elections and more transparent contributions and expenditures overall. One of the many city regulations is to lower the maximum contribution for people doing business with the city from $4,950 to $400. However, an apparent loophole in the city planning process is that a real estate developer’s land being the subject of a rezoning effort is not considered a business relationship: Therefore the development company’s executives and employees are able to give to candidates at the higher level.
New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio said Tuesday that Washington is not working to bolster the middle class. Photo: Reuters
Kenneth Fisher, a partner at Fisher Brothers, has raised $27,250 towards Mayor de Blasio’s 2017 campaign. In addition to his own maximum $4,950 contribution, he collected maximum contributions from Nancy Edelman, the wife of Martin Edelman, a partner at Fisher Brothers, and Jessica Fisher, ex-wife of Winston Fisher, another partner at Fisher Brothers and Kenneth’s cousin. Jessica Fisher, who made a $4,950 contribution, is listed as unemployed on campaign finance disclosures. Her ex-husband also gave a maximum contribution. Nancy Edelman is listed as a self-employed social worker. Fisher Brothers owns three buildings within the rezoning area.
Kenneth Fisher did not reply to International Business Times requests for comment.
Scott Alper, a partner at the Witkoff Group, has raised $14,850 for the mayor’s reelection bid with three maximum contributions, including one from a “self-employed homemaker” Kristin Bell, whose relationship to Witkoff Group is not immediately clear. Another contribution was from Lois Witkoff, mother of Witkoff founder Steven Witkoff, who did not himself contribute. Those contributions were collected in late 2015, prior to Mayor de Blasio releasing his rezoning plan in August 2016. Witkoff Group owns at least three buildings within the rezoning area. Representatives of Witkoff group could not be reached for comment.
Bill Rudin, CEO of Rudin Management, has raised $25,150 for the mayor. Two maximum contributions totaling $9,900 are from unemployed homemakers Ophelia Rudin, wife of Bill, and Susan Rudin, wife of former Rudin chairman Jack Rudin. Neither Bill Rudin nor Rudin president Eric Rudin contributed. Rudin Management owns seven buildings in the rezoning area. Rudin Management representatives did not reply to requests for comment.
Developers are able to profit off the midtown east rezoning through the increased floor area ratio, or FAR. A lot’s FAR sets the maximum allowable square footage of a building, relative to its lot size. The greater the FAR, the more floors of a building can be built. More floors equals more revenue for developers and managers. The Midtown East Rezoning will increase the FAR of a 78-block area around Grand Central Station from a FAR range of 12-15 to 18-27, depending on the precise location. Many of the lots owned by Fisher, Witkoff, and Rudin sit on the borders of different FAR sections, often falling just on the side of the line with the higher FAR. Other lots fall just within the boundaries of the entire rezoning area.
Read: Mayor Bill De Blasio To Unveil Plans To Overhaul Deficit-Ridden NYC Housing Authority: Reports
Beyond the recent contributions to Mayor de Blasio, the timeline of political contributions from real estate developers syncs up with the timeline for the midtown east rezoning.
A view of midtown Manhattan from the observation deck of the Empire State Building Photo: Reuters
In 2013, Scott Stringer was locked in a close race for comptroller with former New York Governor Eliot Spitzer, who was attempting to revive has political career with a run for city office. Stringer won just over 52 percent of the vote in the Democratic primary. While Spitzer’s campaign was financed primarily by his own real estate wealth, Stringer turned to outside donors.
At the time, the Midtown East Rezoning was going through its first iteration, under Mayor Michael Bloomberg. The plan was eventually scrapped in the midst of local opposition. However, before it was canceled, Stringer, who then served as borough president of Manhattan, came out in support of the plan in August 2013. Approval from the borough president is a required step for any rezoning process in New York City.
Kenneth Fisher raised $45,350 for Stringer, including contributions from two of Martin Edelman’s relatives as well as Jessica Fisher, while she was still married to Winston and employed as a broker at her husband’s firm. Other relatives, including homemaker Tammy Fisher and “self-employed consultant/teacher/writer” Sandra Fisher also gave the maximum $4,950. Martin Edelman and Winston Fisher did not contribute in their own names. Kenneth Fisher gave $400, the maximum allowable for an individual doing business with the city. Those contributions were collected in mid-2011.
Rudin Management collected $13,790 for Stringer beginning with two maximum contributions totaling $9,900 just four days after Stringer announced his support for the rezoning.
Kenneth Fisher and Fisher Brothers is not fundraising for Stringer in the 2017 election cycle. As comptroller, Stringer no longer plays a direct role in approving rezonings. Rudin Management is still fundraising for Stringer’s 2017 campaign, though not as aggressively as in 2013.
New York City Council’s Committee on Land Use votes Thursday to decide whether or not to approve the rezoning. The council is the second to last stop on the approval process, before the mayor’s final sign off.
This article was originally published on the Motley Fool.
Momentum isn't being kind to Chipotle Mexican Grill (NYSE:CMG) investors as we approach Tuesday afternoon's quarterly report. The stock hit a fresh four-year low last week, as a food-borne-illness outbreak in one restaurant and a mouse infestation in another made it a week to forget for Chipotle's spin doctors.
• Motley Fool Issues Rare Triple-Buy Alert
Wall Street, for its part, is holding out for a quarter of redemption for Chipotle. They see revenue soaring 19% to $1.19 billion, a combination of positive comps and brisk expansion. Chipotle began the quarter with 11% more restaurants than it had a year earlier, and unit-level sales should have no problem growing after last year's 23.6% second-quarter plunge.
Bottom of the burrito basket
Earnings growth should be even more explosive. Analysts are forecasting a profit of $2.19 a share, 152% ahead of the prior year's $0.87. That's heady growth, but it's also important to frame the improvement correctly. The fast-casual chain came through with net income of $4.45 a share during the second quarter of 2015. In other words, Chipotle's likely to earn roughly half as much as it did a year earlier. 
The real test in light of last week's developments will be Chipotle's guidance. Back in April, Chipotle was targeting comps to climb in the high single digits for all of 2017. It was also eyeing 195 to 210 new restaurant openings this year, a range it reiterated just last month. It will be interesting to see if last week's setbacks finds Chipotle taking a more cautious stance in terms of both its comparable-restaurant sales projections and its expansion plans.
Analyst moves ahead of the report aren't encouraging. Argus' John Staszak lowered his rating from "buy" to "hold" on Friday. Lynn Collier at Canaccord slashed her price target from $440 to $400. They may be reacting more to last week's news than Chipotle's actual fundamentals, but there are certainly fears that last week's incidents will weigh on results in the near term. Staszak's downgrade was accompanied by markdowns on his profit outlooks for this year and next year. Collier thinks the brand-tarnishing incidents will slow Chipotle's sales recovery.
• This Stock Could Be Like Buying Amazon in 1997
The news, however, hasn't been all bad ahead of Tuesday's fresh financials. Telsey Advisory analyst Bob Derrington did upgrade the stock during last week's chaos, arguing that it's a buying opportunity. Hedge fund manager Bill Ackman also came to the chain's aid, tweeting a photo of himself at a seemingly busy Chipotle.

Ackman's hedge fund had taken a nearly 10% stake in Chipotle late last year. Of course, a thousand photos of investors at active Chipotles won't save the stock from hitting new four-year lows if the report after Tuesday's market close is disappointing, but what will helps is a period of reasonable growth and firm guidance.
• 7 of 8 People Are Clueless About This Trillion-Dollar Market
Rick Munarriz has no position in any stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool owns shares of and recommends Chipotle Mexican Grill. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
Guthrie McLean, an American University student who was arrested in China for allegedly injuring a taxi driver, was released Monday (Sunday in U.S.).
“We are very, very very, very happy,” Jennifer McLean, Guthrie's mother wrote in an email to The Associated Press (AP). She said her son was delivered to her doorstep at around 2 a.m. local time (2 p.m. EDT) which came as a surprise for her, AP reported. 
Read: Drexel University Fraternities Sued After Student Brain Damaged In Fight
After the release, Guthrie in an interview with missoulian.com said her son was sleep deprived and overwhelmed. "I’m happy, frustrated, and overwhelmed," Guthrie McLean said. "I was kind of scared and didn't really know what was going to happen."
Jennifer further said the entire process had not been completed but she was expecting things to go smooth. According to Montana Sen. Steve Daines, the release followed an agreement with the Chinese authorities that any charges against Guthrie would be dropped. Details on the agreement were, however, not disclosed.
The 25-year-old Guthrie McLean is a U.S. citizen by birth, however, he was brought up in China. He spent his early years in Missoula, Montana, and was enrolled in the University of Montana. According to the school authorities, Guthrie has been majoring in East Asian studies at the university for about two years. He works in the department of Modern and Classical Languages and Literature, reports said.
In May, he had traveled back to Zhengzhou, southwest of Beijing, to visit his mother. During his stay in China, he indulged into a brawl with a cab driver. Guthrie's mother narrated the entire incident. She said she was traveling in a cab June 10 when the driver asked for the cab fare and got into an argument with her. According to reports, Jennifer said the trouble began after the taxi driver refused to give her change. She also said the driver was “pushing and shoving her, and grabbing her bags."
She then called Gutherie, who pulled the taxi driver and threw him onto the ground. While the mother-son duo thought the matter was over, five weeks later, Zhengzhou police came looking for Gutherie.
Police said the cab driver had alleged he sustained serious injuries and Gutherie was asked to pay around $14,800 dollar as a settlement. Since he was unable to pay, he was taken into custody. Later, the amount was reduced to $7,300. However, he could not pay the amount.
Read: June Chu, Yale University Dean, Suspended Over Racist Yelp Reviews
Gutherie's family and friends said they were shocked by the news of his arrest as he was a peace-loving person, reports said. 
The case was taken up by U.S. lawmakers. Sen. Steve Daines, Sen. Jonathan "Jon" Tester and Rep. Greg Gianforte were constantly in talks with  China’s Ambassador to the U.S. Cui Tiankai and Secretary of State Rex Tillerson.
The lawmakers justified Gutherie’s act of defending his deaf mother.
 “After two 20-hour days in back and forth negotiations with Chinese officials, we were able to come to an agreement that worked for everybody, most importantly for Guthrie and for Jennifer,” Daines said.
Daines also said he had a word with Guthrie after his release, who said he planned to resume his studies from next month and would return to Missoula.
Guthrie's friends had also setup a crowd funding page to collect $7,500 that he had to pay to the cab driver. The initiative had received more than $600 as a donation.
A group of companies and individuals are attempting to register racial slurs and offensive symbols, including the N-word and the Nazi swastika, in response to a June U.S. Supreme Court decision on trademarks.
Applicants filed nine trademark requests with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (PTO) since the June 19 decision to negate a federal law barring discriminatory trademarks. The court ruled that the law violated free speech rights in the Constitution.
U.S. Patent and Trademark Office informed its staff June 26 that the federal law's disparagement provision can no longer deny a trademark, according to written documents seen by Reuters. 
READ: What Causes Gentrification? How Redevelopment Contributes To Economic Displacement
If the applications are approved, products such as clothing, drinks and other commodities could include racial slurs.
Lawyer David Bell, a trademark specialist with law firm Haynes and Boone cited that the rulings could make things worse.
"We're now opening the door, chipping away at what's acceptable under cultural norms," he told Reuters Sunday. "I think it could be a slippery slope, where you get more people and companies thinking this is okay."
Bell said that he did not think that hate groups would capitalize on the Supreme Court ruling.
"Might the (Ku Klux Klan) or neo-Nazi groups start doing it more? They might, but I don't think trademark filings are high on their radar," he said.
Since the Supreme Court ruling, applications for trademarks including the N-word,  slurs used to describe people of Asian descent and the swastika symbol were all filled, according to PTO records.
Steve Maynard, a consultant from Virginia who aids in trademark acquisition, started "Snowflake Enterprises" with investors to request disparaging trademarking following the court ruling. The company filed trademark requests for the N-word to be used on clothing, liquor and beer.
READ: Community Policing In America And Where It Went Wrong
Maynard, 50, claimed he wasn’t racist and intended to turn the slur into a brand, he told Reuters. He wanted to over-saturate the market in hopes that it would strip the slurs of their negative connotations.
"If you suppress it, you give it power," Maynard said.
"And it's currently used as a symbol of hate," Maynard stated in an NPR interview last Friday. "And if we can own the brand, we will be able to control the sale of the brand and the use of the brand as well."
He continued, "If you want to buy that swastika flag, you've got to buy it through us. And it's going to be a thousand dollars each."
Portland, Oregon-based Asian-American band "The Slants" attempted to trademark their name in 2013, to reclaim the slur. Their band name derived from a term viewed as derogatory against people of Asian descent. They failed to trademark the band name and an appeal of that denial led to the Supreme Court ruling.
John Yang, president of Asian Americans Advancing Justice, a civil rights group based in Washington D.C. cited that the Slants’ intentions to reinvent the racial slur were pure. He told Reuters that he was uncertain if the same went for new applicants trying to get their trademarks approved.
"We are concerned that once you start to peel the onion there might be different stories involved," Yang said.
People are seen outside the US Supreme Court June 26, 2017 in Washington, DC.  Photo: Getty Images
Half of retailers in the United States have experienced a data breach at some point and a vast majority believe they are vulnerable to hacking threats, according to a  new survey.
The data showing the fears of retail comes as part of the  2017 Thales Data Threat Report, Retail Edition conducted by 451 Research. The survey included more than 1,100 senior security executives at global retail firms.
Read:  Target Settlement: Company Will Pay $18.5M For Credit Card Data Breach
The fear that many retailers have about potential threats to sensitive data—88 percent consider themselves to be vulnerable—appears not to have much effect in slowing reliance on that valuable information. Ninety-five percent of U.S. retailers surveyed said they would use sensitive data this year.
Consumers may take issue with this given the lack of confidence held by the retailers themselves in their ability to secure that data. More than half of respondents said they believe sensitive data is being used without proper security in place.
One in five businesses in the U.S. reported feeling “very” or “extremely” vulnerable to a hack, meaning the sensitive information those companies rely on could at some point be compromised. And once a firm is hit, it’s not immune to further attacks. Eleven percent of companies breached in the last year experienced another breach prior to that.
It’s not all bad news for firms in the U.S., though: the breach rate in the last year for retailers operating in the country is significantly lower than it is globally. Just 19 percent of American firms have been hit over the last year—a drop from 22 percent the year prior—compared to 43 percent globally.
Read:  HospitalGown Database Leak: Enterprise Apps Found Leaking Data On Back End Servers
One reason for the improved performance of U.S. firms may be the increase in IT security spending. More than three-quarters of survey respondents, 77 percent, said they increased investment in their cyber defenses.
There is some concern that those investments are being made in the wrong areas, though. Nearly nine in 10 of all companies said network security is “very” or “extremely” effective at protecting data from breaches, which would protect the company’s network but could still leave data exposed when stored in the cloud.
Newsweek is hosting a Structure Security event Sept. 26-27 in San Francisco.  Photo: Newsweek Media Group
“These distressing breach rates serve as stark proof that data on any system can be attacked and compromised,” Garrett Bekker, principal analyst for information security at 451 Research said in a statement. “Unfortunately, organizations keep spending on the same security solutions that worked for them in the past, but aren’t necessarily the most effective at stopping modern breaches.”
It’s understandable why retailers would be on edge about attacks given the rash of hacks that hit major companies in recent years. Earlier this year,  Target agreed to pay $18.5 million as part of a settlement over a 2013 data breach that exposed customer credit card information, proving that failing to provide proper defenses can cause more damage and expense for companies in the long run.
While retailers ramp up their defenses against cyberattacks and fear for the worst, they have actually improved their lot in recent years compared to other sectors. Twenty percent of healthcare firms, 24 percent of financial services, and 34 percent of federal government agencies reported data breaches in the last year—all higher than the 19 percent of retail incidents.
It feels a bit like Pinterest and looks something like Instagram, but the newest product from Amazon is an honest-to-goodness shopping platform. Called Amazon Spark, the app shows users a feed of photographs that can be clicked on to go directly to the product pages on the e-commerce website.
Spark is currently available only for Amazon Prime customers, who become members by paying $99 a year, in the United States. It can be fired up using the Amazon app for the iPhone (an Android version for Spark is still being developed), by going to “Programs and Features” under the main menu and choosing “Amazon Spark.”
“When you first visit Spark, you'll select a few interests and we’ll create a feed of personalized content from other Amazon customers with similar interests as you. Shop your feed by tapping on product links or photos with the shopping bag icon, or interact with people by commenting or smiling on their posts. To create a post, scroll to the top of your feed and share a product or story,” the company explains on its website.
Read: Amazon Could Launch A Stand-Alone Messaging App
The “smiles” feature is similar to “likes” on Facebook. Other than content shared by Amazon customers, Spark will also feature sponsored content, identified as such, from paid bloggers and social media influencers.
The feature was publicly launched Tuesday, but the company seems to have been testing it for a while, given the large number of posts already available on it Wednesday, according to an Associated Press report. AP also cited Bob Hetu, research director for retail at Gartner, who said Amazon does not seem to be pushing Spark hard at the moment, as indicated by the fact that finding the feature on the Amazon app is not “intuitive.”
An Amazon spokeswoman told Reuters: “We created Spark to allow customers to discover, and shop, stories and ideas from a community that likes what they like. When customers first visit Spark, they select at least five interests they’d like to follow and we’ll create a feed of relevant content contributed by others. Customers shop their feed by tapping on product links or photos with the shopping bag icon.”
The shopping feature doesn’t work perfectly, however, at least as of now. For instance, a Business Insider reporter who tried to buy a pair of Ray Ban sunglasses she saw on Spark was directed to an Amazon page with a slightly different model. This could be another reason why the company is not yet pushing this feature hard.
As with everything, there were reactions on social media, even as most mainstream media outlets referred to Spark as something of a hybrid between Snapchat and Instagram.


Another user wondered about the name Amazon chose for the new feature.

And at least one Twitter user was quite upset by the new feature, calling it “f------ disturbing” because it is “Pushing consumerism to the max. In a time when most of us don’t have money to afford a root canal.”
When asked if Spark was an imminent threat to Snapchat, the app it most closely resembles, Hetu said it was too soon to make such a conclusion. However, if this feature came to dislodge Pinterest in the future (the company is currently valued at about $12 billion), it would be because of Amazon’s retail connection, and not because of the purely social features, the AP report said.
This article was originally published on the Motley Fool.
Under Armour (NYSE:UA) (NYSE:UAA) has excelled at getting its gear on the playing field thanks to technical innovations and partnerships with high-profile college teams, as well as an upcoming tie-up with Major League Baseball. But in order for the company to make it to the next level, it will need to establish itself as a fashion brand, much like Nike (NYSE:NKE) and Adidas (NasdaqOTC: ADDYY) have -- and its efforts thus far have largely fallen flat. In footwear, which is the biggest category for Nike and Adidas, growth at Under Armour slowed to just 2% in its most recent quarter as Curry 3 sales disappointed. The launch of Under Armour Sportswear last year -- its first fashion line -- was received well by critics but failed to move the needle or change the overall brand's perception.
• Motley Fool Issues Rare Triple-Buy Alert
Now, Under Armour is borrowing a play from its rivals in order to boost itself as a fashion brand. The #2 sportswear brand in the U.S. has signed rap star ASAP Rocky to a multi-year deal to partner with Under Armour in its lifestyle category. Rocky, who is considered something of a style icon, will reportedly be the face of the fashion line.  
In the past, he has teamed up with Guess, Ferragamo, and Adidas on collaborations, among others, and has modeled for Dior. Details of the arrangement were not available as the news was first broken by Susquehanna analyst Sam Poser, and Under Armour hasn't commented on it. However, many expect Rocky to work closely with UAS fashion director Tim Coppens.
A familiar tactic
Under Armour is far from the first brand to look to a rap star to elevate its brand. Most famously, Adidas partnered with Kanye West on a line of Yeezy sneakers that he helped design, and that relationship has been key in returning Adidas to strong growth in the U.S. Adidas even called the expanded tie-up "The most significant partnership ever created between a non-athlete and an athletic brand." The German sports giant seems to be building Yeezy into a sub-brand the way Nike has with Jordan.
Puma, meanwhile, has also seen its stock skyrocket as the company has teamed up with a number of performers including Rihanna, The Weeknd, Young Thug, and even Kylie Jenner, spurring a comeback for a brand that had seen profits dry up in recent years.
Can Rocky save Under Armour?
Partnering with ASAP Rocky is a smart move, but one person alone can't suddenly make Under Armour cool. Adidas, Puma, and Nike all have long pedigrees in street culture and have stronger ties to musicians. Adidas tracksuits and Superstar shoes were favored by Run-DMC back in the 1980's, and Puma's trademark suede shoes have long been popular on the streets after coming into style with breakdancers. A pair of Jordans may have arguably been the defining fashion item of the inner city for a generation.
• This Stock Could Be Like Buying Amazon in 1997
Rocky also does not have the star power of a Kanye West or a Rihanna, but he is well respected among rap fans. The news generated acclaim from some on Twitter.



Ultimately, however, Under Armour has staked so much of its brand on performance that it doesn't have the same advantages that Adidas and Puma did when they partnered with celebrities. It makes sense for a more fashionable brand to partner with Kanye West. Under Armour will need a new collection to fit with Rocky.
In addition to building a fashion brand, Under Armour still has other problems to contend with including sluggish footwear sales and a connected fitness division that has seen little return.
• 7 of 8 People Are Clueless About This Trillion-Dollar Market
Any turnaround for the company isn't going to happen overnight.
Jeremy Bowman owns shares of Nike and Under Armour (C Shares). The Motley Fool owns shares of and recommends Nike, Under Armour (A Shares), and Under Armour (C Shares). The Motley Fool recommends Guess?. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
New financial disclosure documents were released Friday evening that revealed the business holdings and investments from first daughter Ivanka Trump and her husband, Jared Kushner, who serves as a senior adviser to President Trump. 
Kushner's disclosure document is an update from his first government ethics filing released four months ago. It reveals 77 new assets that had been "inadvertently omitted" worth at least $10.6 million. Ivanka Trump’s financial disclosure was filed in June, according to their attorney.
"The Office of Government Ethics has certified Jared’s financial disclosure, reflecting its determination that his approach complies with federal ethics laws," the couple's attorney, Jamie Gorelick, of Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale and Dorr LLP, said in a statement.
There are many interesting financial revelations about the couple at a time when special counsel Robert Mueller is investigating Kushner's business dealings.
There Is A Wide Disparity In Their Estimated Combined Net Worth Though their net worth is not a precise number, the documents show that they are worth at least $207 million. However, that figure could reach more than $762 million. Ivanka Trump reported assets worth at least $66 million.
Ivanka Or Her Trust Received A Hefty Sum In 2016 The figure is at least $12.6 million and she receives fixed payments totaling $1.5 million a year going forward after relinquishing her rights to performance-based payments from the Trump family's real estate holdings. The Ivanka M. Trump Business Trust reported an income of between $1 million and $5 million between March 9 and May 31. The trust earned over $5 million from Jan. 1, 2016 to March 8, 2017.
Cadre Is Worth As Much As $25 million Kushner owns a stake in Cadre, a tech startup that pairs investors with major real-estate projects. He had previously not disclosed his interests in the company.
Kushner Sold His Interest In A New Jersey Shopping Mall The 57-year-old Monmouth Mall in Eatontown was part of a planned $500 million renovation by Kushner Companies.
Ivanka's Book Deal Included A $787,500 Advance The self-help book "Women Who Work" was released by Penguin Random House in May. 
They Have Millions In Art Their collection is valued at between $5 million and $25 million. Ivanka Trump has often showcased the works on Instagram.
This article was originally published on the Motley Fool.
The price of cable has skyrocketed in recent years, leading many consumers to cut the cord. But don't blame the cable companies entirely. Programming costs at many pay-TV distributors have increased faster than revenue per subscriber. Last year, Comcast's (NASDAQ:CMCSA) programming expenses increased more than 10% while video revenue climbed less than 4%.
• Motley Fool Issues Rare Triple-Buy Alert
While Comcast says it expects programming expenses to continue increasing for the foreseeable future, those increases may be slower than in the recent past. BTIG analyst Rich Greenfield doesn't see any incremental value programmers can offer to justify further price increases. That presents a challenge for major media companies like Disney (NYSE:DIS), 21st Century Fox (NASDAQ:FOXA), Viacom (NASDAQ:VIAB), and Discovery Communications (NASDAQ:DISCA).
Increasing the value of a cable package
Each time media companies come to the table to negotiate carriage fees -- the price per subscriber distributors like Comcast pay -- they've brought something new. Things like HD programming, more extensive on-demand catalogs, and streaming rights have helped increase prices in recent years. For its part, Comcast has been happy to pay up for these additional features, as it believes they help it attract and retain customers.
Media companies have also been able to launch new networks by leveraging existing popular networks. For example, Fox launched FXX a few years ago by moving some of its popular FX series to the new channel and requiring distributors to carry both channels. ESPN does the same thing with ESPN2 and many of its various offshoots, most recently the SEC Network. But media and cable companies are now facing backlash for bloating the cable package more than necessary.
One hand many cable programmers have yet to play is more flexible packaging options. Disney notably doesn't allow distributors to offer ESPN as an add-on service to standard bundles. But as some programmers experience declining subscriber rates, they may opt for more flexibility, allowing distributors to create smaller, less expensive bundles, according to Greenfield.
That would help make Viacom CEO Bob Bakish's vision of a sub-$20 entertainment-only bundle a reality. He said Viacom is in advanced discussions with distributors for such a package in May.
• This Stock Could Be Like Buying Amazon in 1997
That could certainly help Viacom, which has struggled recently to retain subscribers and negotiate with distributors. Other entertainment-only programmers like Discovery could benefit as well. Sports and news programmers including Disney and Fox could be hurt by such an option, though, so expect them to resist such bundles in their negotiations or receive higher fees per subscriber.
What can ESPN and Fox do?
ESPN is still in a relatively strong position to raise rates and keep its channels in smaller bundles. It plans to launch yet another network, the ACC Network, in 2019. Additionally, it's making moves to launch its own direct-to-consumer service through its investment in BAMTech. It can leverage both to see increased overall carriage fees and get more of its channels in more bundles.
Fox isn't in as strong of a position. While its networks like Fox News have diehard constituencies, it doesn't have much more to offer to bring its carriage fees up meaningfully. The company's investment in Hulu and the growth of new virtual distributors may provide some leverage, but it's not something unique to Fox.
Comcast is reversing the model
As programmers have asked for more money, Comcast has used the growth of online streaming services to its advantage, practically reversing the model. As the largest cable TV company in the country, it has a lot of leverage.
Last year, the company started offering Netflix through its X1 set-top box. Not only does Comcast pay nothing to distribute Netflix, it actually receives revenue for each subscriber it signs up. Comcast may do the same thing with ESPN's direct-to-consumer package, but since ESPN also operates traditional cable channels, it may tie those sales to its programming fees.
As more a la carte options become available to consumers, look for traditional distributors like Comcast to integrate them with their own service to provide consumers a better video viewing experience. That will allow distributors to continue raising rates while keeping programming expenses from climbing as fast by putting pressure on traditional programmers to keep their rates low.
• 7 of 8 People Are Clueless About This Trillion-Dollar Market
Ultimately, it will be tough for programmers to keep raising rates, as leverage is shifting back to the distributors. ESPN, with its huge amounts of content, is still in a relatively strong position to keep raising rates, but others may have to sacrifice rates to maintain subscribers -- or vice versa. Even ESPN is at risk of not being able to raise rates fast enough considering the huge content obligations it faces over the next decade. Content companies have had a good run, but growth may start to slow soon.
Adam Levy has no position in any stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool owns shares of and recommends Walt Disney. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
This article was originally published on the Motley Fool.
Chipotle Mexican Grill, Inc. (NYSE:CMG) may be living its nightmare all over again. Shares of the burrito chain were down as much as 7.6% on news that a Chipotle location in Virginia had shut down in what appears to be a norovirus outbreak.
According to Business Insider, which first broke the news, at least 13 customers fell ill at a Sterling, Va. location after eating there on Friday or Saturday. Chipotle closed the restaurant on Monday once they learned of the illnesses.
• Motley Fool Issues Rare Triple-Buy Alert
The news is especially concerning as the burrito chain is still struggling to repair its image after a series of foodborne illness outbreaks in 2015 that included salmonella, norovirus, and most importantly, E. coli.
Unlike E. coli, norovirus is not a food supply issue so other Chipotle restaurants are not affected. It's a highly contagious disease that may have been contracted through a Chipotle employee who had it. The company has yet to issue a statement on the matter. However, Chipotle's Executive Director for Food Safety Jim Marsden told Business Insider, "We are working with health authorities to understand what the cause may be and to resolve the situation as quickly as possible."
What's next?
Reports of another foodborne illness outbreak are about the worst thing that could happen for the company. After sales and the share price plummeted at the end of 2015 on the E. coli crisis, the company spent much of last year implementing new food safety protocols and hiring experts to direct the new program. In an apology letter following the E. coli outbreak, Chipotle Founder and CEO Steve Ells said the company would bring foodborne illness risk to near zero. 
However, Chipotle may be repeating the same mistakes during the last round of outbreaks as the company has failed to get out in front of media coverage by making its own statement, and is instead allowing fear about an outbreak to run amok. 
While Chipotle was tweeting its usual blithe promotional messages this afternoon like this:

• This Stock Could Be Like Buying Amazon in 1997
Customers were responding like this:


Chipotle is addressing specific media outlets. Spokesman Chris Arnold told Reuters that the company planned to reopen today after closing voluntarily yesterday to sanitize the restaurant.  
But Chipotle should apologize for the incident, explain to customers what's happening, and assure them that no other stores are affected. Right now, management simply looks like it hoped no one would find out. It's terrible crisis management. One analyst even called for Steve Ells to be fired as a result of the incident and the response. If the stock continues to decline, that call is likely to gain support.
The long-term effect
The stock is down about 5%, demonstrating that the market is concerned about the norovirus incident, but it's not as bad as it could have been, considering the E. coli outbreak wiped out nearly 50% from the stock. Ultimately, the long-term effect will depend on the customer response. It's too soon at this point to say if the news will result in any meaningful exodus from the brand, but it doesn't look good, especially at a time when enthusiasm for the brand was building again on news reports about queso and other new menu items that could soon hit restaurants.
As an investor, my biggest concern isn't the norovirus outbreak itself, but the failure to address it. The original E. coli outbreak only affected about 50 people, but it tanked Chipotle's sales because the company was slow to address it and blamed the media and CDC reporting methods. It's attitude was often aloof rather than apologetic.
• 7 of 8 People Are Clueless About This Trillion-Dollar Market
Perception is a key factor here, and Chipotle still seems not to have learned its lesson, that it needs to maintain its image even if it doesn't consider the norovirus incident to be serious. Hopefully, the company will come out with a full and detailed explanation of the outbreak in the coming days. That's the least its customers and investors deserve.
Jeremy Bowman owns shares of Chipotle Mexican Grill. The Motley Fool owns shares of and recommends Chipotle Mexican Grill. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
San Francisco has embarked on a project to transform its industrial southeast waterfront into a bike-friendly destination called the Blue Greenway. When completed, the Blue Greenway will be a 13-mile network of parks, bike lanes and trails along the southeastern edge of the city.
Among its many benefits, the project creates green space and waterfront access in the low-income Bayview Hunters Point neighborhood. The Blue Greenway is part of a larger transformation of Bayview Hunters Point. This older, neglected neighborhood is still full of vacant lots and a large, abandoned naval base, but it is becoming a landscape of hip townhomes and new coffee shops. Its transformation includes the complicated cleanup of many toxic waste sites – most notoriously, a military radiation lab on the former Hunters Point Naval Shipyard.
The Blue Greenway project cleans up toxic land along its route with funding from the Environmental Protection Agency’s Brownfields Program, which supports the cleanup and reuse of contaminated sites. Brownfield redevelopment projects like the Blue Greenway are intended to bring environmental and economic benefits to run-down urban areas. And yet, as I have found in my own research, they can also contribute to gentrification and economic displacement.
Recycling land
Brownfields are contaminated sites such as old gas stations, dry cleaning facilities, former factories and power plants. In the case of the Blue Greenway, they are small, vacant lots in old industrial areas and median strips along the road.
Brownfields are less heavily contaminated than sites on the EPA’s Superfund list, which can take decades to clean up. The brownfields program is designed to move more quickly and make contaminated sites available for reuse. Ideally, returning these sites to use stimulates the economy and revitalizes neighborhoods. The program is widely popular with people who live near brownfield sites, as well as with city politicians and the private sector, which profits from the business of cleanup and redevelopment.
Even EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt, a forceful advocate of cutting back federal environmental protection, has voiced support of the brownfields program, calling it “absolutely essential.” When the agency released US$56 million in brownfield grants in May, Pruitt lauded the program for “improving local economies and creating an environment where jobs can grow.”
EPA’s brownfield program was developed in the mid-1990s to provide incentives for states and companies to voluntarily clean up toxic spills and vacant industrial sites. At that point, Superfund was the only federal program that managed toxic cleanups. Superfund cleanups are federally mandated, top-down projects in which EPA has significant enforcement authority – notably, to make polluters pay for the cleanup.
In contrast, the brownfields program is more market-friendly. It decentralizes authority to states and offers incentives for voluntary cleanups, such as grants, tax breaks and other subsidies.
The brownfields program emerged at a moment when many U.S. cities sought to redevelop their postindustrial areas. In contrast to Superfund, which at that time had little to say about land reuse, brownfields projects aimed not just to clean up industrial sites but to redevelop and reuse them. The word “brownfield” itself is a real estate term: Brownfields are the opposite of “greenfields,” or undeveloped land.
In this way, brownfields redevelopment projects are often framed as environmental solutions to urban deindustrialization. As the U.S. Conference of Mayors stated in a 1999 report, the brownfields program helps “recycle America’s land.”
Preventing ‘green gentrification’
However, these projects also raise questions about environmental justice. Many brownfield sites are concentrated in low-income communities of color. This spatial concentration of toxic sites is, in part, an effect of redlining – the practice of denying loans to racial minorities based on color-coded neighborhood maps of financial risk. It is also an effect of 20th-century patterns of inner-city disinvestment and discriminatory zoning policies, which allowed for the siting of hazardous industries in low-income neighborhoods. Together, these and other factors have produced well-documented geographical entanglements of race and toxic waste.
At its best, brownfield redevelopment can transform vacant lots into parks and bring other amenities to neglected neighborhoods. It is most successful when local communities are meaningfully involved in the planning process, and when it is combined with other policies aimed to reduce social and economic inequalities.
One successful example is Fruitvale Transit Village in East Oakland, California, where a nonprofit called The Unity Council led the transformation of an old rail parking lot into a mixed-use development. The complex includes a senior center, a library, a health clinic and a mix of market-rate and affordable housing.
But these projects can also contribute to green gentrification by increasing land values and rents and displacing low-income residents. One example is New York City’s High Line, an old elevated rail line that was “recycled” into a destination by converting it into a walkable pathway, lined by native plants. Today the High Line is an enormously popular attraction. It also has spurred development that has priced many small businesses and less wealthy households out of the neighborhood.
Fewer cleanups
Ideally, EPA’s Office of Environmental Justice could help to address some of the inequalities produced by brownfields cleanups. However, President Trump’s proposed 2018 budget for the EPA eliminates this office. It also cuts funding for the brownfield program, by 30 percent, from $48 million to $33 million, along with large cuts to Superfund cleanups and emergency response capabilities and other hazardous waste management programs.
These cutbacks threaten the lives and livelihoods of all U.S. residents, and are unpopular among both Democrats and Republicans. Yet because of the legacies of race and industrial zoning patterns, their effects will fall hardest on already marginalized communities.
What can be done?
One way to protect communities from both toxic waste and green gentrification would be to increase funding for EPA’s Brownfield Job Training Program, assuming that it survives the Trump administration. Many brownfield communities struggle with unemployment, and residents are easily priced out of neighborhoods as they become more expensive to live in. The Brownfield Job Training Program creates jobs for low-income residents, which can help them reap some of the benefits of brownfield redevelopment.
State support for affordable housing and community land trusts also can complement brownfield cleanups. Successful community land trusts are managed by nonprofits that buy land and build affordable homes. The homes are sold to local residents, while the nonprofit retains ownership of the land. This strategy can protect low-income neighborhoods from commercial developers.
More broadly, our notions of “sustainability” and “urban greening” ought to include values of justice and equity. Otherwise, important projects like the Blue Greenway will build sustainable waterfronts for the urban elite, rather than spreading the environmental benefits of toxic cleanup to the many.
Lindsey Dillon, Assistant Professor of Sociology, University of California, Santa Cruz
This article was originally published on The Conversation. Read the original article.
The Conversation's logo. Photo: The Conversation

U.S. Special Counsel Robert Mueller is now investigating President Donald Trump’s business dealings as part of the Justice Department's probe into connections between Russia and Trump’s campaign, according to a Thursday  Bloomberg report.
Justice Department instructions to Mueller included investigating “any links and/or coordination between the Russian government and individuals associated with the campaign,” and to follow up on “any matters that arose or may arise directly from the investigation.” Trump said that any investigation into his financial dealings outside of Russia by Mueller would cross a line in a Wednesday New York Times interview. He did not say, however, whether he would consider firing the special counsel or not.
READ: Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s Trump-Russia Investigation Not To Affect House Intelligence Committee’s Probe
Bloomberg reported that the FBI is investigating a Trump SoHo project with Russian partners, Russians buying apartments in Trump properties, the 2013 Miss Universe pageant in Moscow and Trump’s sale of a Florida mansion to a Russian oligarch.
“Those transactions are in my view well beyond the mandate of the Special counsel; are unrelated to the election of 2016 or any alleged collusion between the Trump campaign and Russia and most importantly, are well beyond any Statute of Limitation imposed by the United States Code,” one of Trump’s lawyers John Dowd told Bloomberg.
Trump was dismissive of Russian financial ties to his real estate empire in the Times interview.
“I mean, it’s possible there’s a condo or something, so, you know, I sell a lot of condo units, and somebody from Russia buys a condo, who knows? I don’t make money from Russia. In fact, I put out a letter saying that I don’t make — from one of the most highly respected law firms, accounting firms,” said Trump. “ I don’t have buildings in Russia. They said I own buildings in Russia. I don’t. They said I made money from Russia … I don’t.”
Another person of interest in the financial investigations is Paul Manafort for possible money laundering. Manafort for a time served as the campaign manager for Donald Trump.
READ: Jared Kushner’s Middle East Role Not Affected By Robert Mueller’s Investigation Into His Business Deals
Mueller’s investigation is one of several stemming from possible ties between Russia and the Trump campaign. Others include the House and Senate Intelligence Committees.
Trump has repeatedly taken shots at all investigations calling them a “witch hunt.” In the interview with the Times, Trump also called Mueller being named special counsel a conflict of interest because he was being considered for the role of FBI Director. Trump fired the previous director, James Comey, over concerns about the FBI’s investigation into connections between former national security advisor Michael Flynn and Russia.
In 2008 Wall Street banks created a financial crisis that incinerated the economy. It was only a few years after the Justice Department had aggressively prosecuted Enron and Arthur Anderson, and so many folks expected similar prosecutions of financial executives, especially because Democratic presidential candidate Barack Obama promised to “bring a new era of responsibility and accountability to Wall Street.” But as recounted in a new podcast with Pulitzer Prize-winning journalist Jesse Eisinger, it never happened.
Eisinger has just released a new book called “The Chickenshit Club: Why the Justice Department Fails to Prosecute Executives.” It tracks how a furious pressure campaign by corporate America fundamentally changed the culture of the Justice Department. Instead of going after executives who commit white collar crime, the agency now often offers settlements with corporations, forcing shareholders to pick up the tab for fines while leaving executives untouched. 
The result, says Eisinger, is a criminal justice system that no longer seriously deters corporate crime, but instead makes it just a mundane cost of doing business. Shareholders may pay some fines, but executives often get a nice get-out-of-jail-free card, avoiding prison or any kind of punishment. 
Subscribers can click here to listen to the full podcast. What follows is a lightly edited excerpt of the conversation with Eisinger.
Sirota: Where does the term “Chickenshit Club” come from?
Eisinger: That term comes from Jim Comey. Everybody knows him as the man who was fired by FBI director by Donald Trump. Before he was in that role, 15 years ago, he became the U.S. Attorney for the Southern District. The Southern District was the premier office with the hottest-shot prosecutors. He gathered them all together in a room, and he looks them over, and he says, “How many of you guys have never lost a case?” A bunch of hands shoot up. These are the best of the best of the best. He says, “Me and my buddies have a name for you guys. You guys are the chickenshit club.” The hands go back down, and they're a little sheepish about bragging.
Essentially, what he's saying is, “You are not about winning. Your job is about justice. You're not a sports team that needs an undefeated record. What you need to do is not try to pick off the low-hanging fruit, but go for the most ambitious cases you can, the worst people, the most powerful bad guys. That's what society demands of you.”
Unfortunately, the Department of Justice writ large then, over the next 15 years, becomes the chickenshit club, because they lose the will and the ability and the focus on top executives, and now no longer really tries very hard and knows how to prosecute executives. I think the prosecutions of executives in previous eras, like Jeff Skilling and Ken Lay of Enron, couldn't be done today. I don't think they would be able to do it.
U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder. Photo: Reuters/James Lawler Duggan
Sirota: You say there were moments where the Justice Department was a strong weapon against white collar crime — and certainly much stronger than it was in the Obama era and today. Was there ever a golden era?
Eisinger: I would say that there were ups and downs. What I say is there were these small silver ages from the period of the Great Depression up to through the prosecutions of the Enron era frauds, and now we are in the bronze or the stone age. There's never been a golden age.  After the Great Depression, essentially white-collar crime has to be invented. Edwin Sutherland, a sociologist and criminologist, coins the phrase. We've always known that things like embezzlement were crimes, but we didn't really have a definition for accounting fraud, for securities fraud. Those kinds of things literally have to be invented by post-Great Depression laws, mainly the '33 and '34 Securities Act.
Then, just to skip really forward a few decades, for the next period of time the SEC, the Securities and Exchange Commission, after it's been created doesn't really do serious white-collar enforcement of big companies. They focus on boiler-room operations, small-time, a little insider trading here and there, but not much, and Ponzi schemes, things like that. Then, in the 1960s, the premier office of the Department of Justice, the Southern District of New York, starts to raise its sights under the leadership of Robert Morgenthau, who is a legend, becomes even more legendary because he's the 40-year DA for Manhattan, but before he's District Attorney, he's the U.S. Attorney for the Southern District in the '60s.
That is the office that focuses on securities fraud. Essentially, what he does is he says, "I want to raise my sights to a better class of criminal. I don't want to just do these Ponzi schemers. I want to look at bigger companies, and not only bigger companies, but lawyers and accountants who aid them." The mantle is picked up by Stanley Sporkin. Morgenthau's a Democrat. Sporkin is a Republican who was the director of enforcement at the SEC. He is the most powerful bureaucrat through the 1970s in the federal government. Doesn't run the SEC, but is protected both by Republicans and Democrats in Congress, and scares the bejeezus out of corporations through a variety of serious enforcement….
[Sporkin] says he wants to save capitalism by rooting out the wrongdoers. They're serious-minded about prosecution, more so I would argue even than Democrats, because Democrats in these periods, with some legitimacy, say, "The Republicans just care about rotten apples, but the whole system is rotten, and the whole system needs much more serious regulatory oversight, and so we want to have systemic reforms. We don't want to just have prosecutions."
Sirota: You argue that the Enron and Arthur Anderson prosecutions — and the aftermath — were a watershed moment in the Justice Department’s shift away from going after corporate executives. Why were those cases so important?
Jeff Skilling, former Enron CEO, and attorney Daniel Petrocelli are escorted by federal marshals, away from Houston Federal court Photo: Reuters
Eisinger: We think of the George W. Bush presidency as incompetent and cronyist and a moral vacuum, and certainly that became much more pronounced in later years, and certainly that is in effect with the Iraq invasion and the neocons, but in the Ashcroft Department of Justice, they take the prosecutions of the companies that failed under accounting frauds after the NASDAQ bubble bursts very seriously, most seriously Enron, the Enron era of prosecutions. They prosecuted almost all the top executives. They give adequate, serious resources.
They get protection to do these investigations from political cover from George W. Bush himself, and the most notable thing here is that the Enron guys were friends of George W. Bush. They went way back with both the Republican Party and the Bush family. Big supporters. It's just impossible to imagine [President Barack] Obama and [Attorney General Eric] Holder having prosecuted the kinds of people who were as close to them as George W. Bush, or not impossible to imagine. What I should say is, it's incredibly notable that they go after these very powerful, connected people with Enron, given what we know about the later Bush period and given what we know about Obama.
Sirota: At one point, Bush himself got involved, right?
Eisinger: Yeah, exactly. What they're doing there is there's some pressure there. There's some pressure from business interests. There's some pressure from White House political officials. Bush calls them in, calls not only [Deputy Attorney General] Larry Thompson but [FBI director] Bob Mueller…
When you go to the White House, you may be getting a political dressing-down, but what happens is, they in turn say, "Here are all the allegations. Here are all the investigations. Here's all the evidence we've uncovered so far." They give him a serious briefing, and Bush to his credit is pretty flabbergasted by this, and says, "You go do your jobs," which is remarkable.
Sirota: So how do we go from the tough-minded Enron task force that goes after Enron executives to the current era where we’ve seen no prosecutions of Wall Street executives after the 2008 financial crisis?
Eisinger: What happens is, one of the first things that this Enron team or SWAT team of prosecutors does is focus on the accounting firm Arthur Andersen, which was the handmaiden to Enron's fraud as the energy traders' accounting firm. As the investigation started up, the accounting firm destroyed literally tons and tons of documents and emails related to the Enron audit. Prosecutors were outraged. This was a destruction of evidence. It looked like obstruction of justice. They tried to reach a settlement with Arthur Andersen. They can't, and so they prosecute them, and they win.
Anderson was not just Enron's auditor, but had been the handmaiden to numerous frauds, including Sunbeam and Waste Management and later Worldcom. This was a, I argue, corrupt firm through and through, and needed to be prosecuted because the previous regulatory settlements with the SEC had done nothing. It was a recidivist. If there's one thing that I can do in the book, it's to rehabilitate this prosecution, because stunningly enough, what happens is over the course of the next several years, there's this backlash between a great PR victory, and a corporate lobbying campaign, and a white-collar-bar lobbying campaign against the perception that the Enron team generally was too aggressive, and they were cowboys, and specifically that the Arthur Andersen prosecution was too aggressive, and was the wrong thing to do.
 They win this argument. They basically turn the story of Arthur Andersen from a corrupt firm that was shut down because of its corruption to a firm that was shut down by the government, and thereby throwing tens of thousands of people off the street. Because of that, the Department of Justice learns, Lanny Breuer who is the head of the criminal division under Obama, and Mary Jo White, who ends up being Obama's SEC chair, those people learn that prosecuting a company and having it go out of business is the wrong thing to do and they can never do it again, so they turn to settlements.
 Sirota: So a successful prosecution of Arthur Andersen becomes the justification for, "We shouldn't prosecute Arthur Andersens in the future because the prosecutors in theory were too strong, were too harsh, went after them too vigorously." Meanwhile, your book tracks the concurrent rise of the so-called “too big to jail” idea. How did that evolve?
 Eisinger: What happens is, there's a 1909 Supreme Court ruling [that says] if there is an employee who in the course of his or her job commits a crime, the entire company can be prosecuted. That is the power that the government has. It's essentially neglected. They don't really prosecute companies for a very long time.
In the 1990s, starting out, they're unsatisfied with this. They don't really want to prosecute companies all the time. They used to be focused on individuals, but they started shifting the focus on trying to root out the rotten cultures at companies. They hit on this haphazardly. Mary Jo White, as the U.S. Attorney in the Southern District, comes up with this settlement. Then, she sends her lieutenant and writes a memo that Eric Holder signs saying, "Here are the principles for how we're going to prosecute a company." One of the principles is, "We'll take into account collateral consequences." Eric Holder gets a lot of blame for this in retrospect, but he didn't really write it…
Then, Arthur Anderson happens, and they ignored these principles, quite rightly in my view, and prosecute the company. Larry Thompson updates them, and that becomes the locus for the lobbying, where they hit on one aspect of these principles to try to tear them all down. The aspect of the principles is that they attack the fact that the government can ask for companies to waive attorney-client privilege when they're doing investigations, so that the government can get access to all that's going on in their own internal investigation. If companies want to cooperate and they want to get leniency from the government, they have to waive attorney-client privilege.
Companies scream bloody murder, and so does the white-collar bar. Over the course of the next decade, those powers are completely rolled back, which really strip the ability for prosecutors to get inside companies to investigate. That has a whole cascading series of effects.
Sirota: Okay. Now let's move up to the Obama era. What could the Obama administration have done based on all of the trends you've just charted, and what did it do instead?
Eisinger: The first thing they could have done is created a task force, a big, giant task force to address a variety of financial crisis-era cases. People should remember, the financial crisis hits in the end of the Bush administration. The height is September. The election is in November. All the firms that collapse, the criminal investigations are going on, and the late Bush administration folks who are on their way out don't take a series of serious decisions and let the investigations start to percolate. That's the first mistake.
The Obama administration inherits that mistake, but they compound it by not doing anything about it. One thing they needed to do was create a task force where you figuratively lock 50 prosecutors in a room together to look at — five needed to look at Lehman Brothers, and 10 needed to look at the CDO business, and five needed to look at Citi, and six needed to look at JP Morgan, etc., etc. If you had, they would have found crimes.
In fact, what happens is they don't really look in a serious way. Whenever you hear Eric Holder or Preet Bharara or Lanny Breuer saying, "We looked seriously and nobody ever presented us a criminal case without a doubt prosecuting a high-level individual," the secret is that they didn't look. That was mistake number one.
Sirota: What are the continuing effects of the Justice Department culture that the Obama administration basically helped cement?
Eisinger: The day-to-day legacy now is that the Department of Justice has lost the will and ability to prosecute top corporate executives. This is the flip side. [We] know about mass incarceration and the scandal of that, and that we disproportionately punish mostly poor, mostly people of color, in this country. This is the flip side of that, which is that we allow the rich and powerful to commit crimes with impunity if they are in executive positions at major corporations. That is a scandal, and it undermines the fairness and justice of our system and the rule of law.
The Obama administration has contributed to it. What they do now is they settle with corporations rather than focusing on prosecuting individuals. They have lost the skill set to do with it, because settling with corporations is so easy and because of the way settlements come about, which is that we have outsourced and privatized investigations to the corporations themselves. It's basically like allowing Pablo Escobar to hire the major law firm of Medellin to investigate whether Escobar is dealing drugs or not. That surprisingly is an investigation that might yield a few street-level drug users but is not going to actually implicate Pablo himself.
We have corporations who have a scandal. They hire a law firm. The law firm does the investigation. The investigation is studiously incurious about going to the top levels, and worse than that, they negotiate, then they hand the results to the Department of Justice. The Department of Justice looks over it, and then comes up with some kind of fine that the shareholders pay. The executives don't pay it. The company, the piece of paper has to pay it, but that comes out of shareholder pockets. Then those prosecutors, many of them, go to work for those law firms themselves after a few years. That is a deeply corrupt process.
Deloitte, a worldwide professional services firm, conducted a survey on the expectations of 2017's back to school shopping season alongside previous spending habits. Average school supply spending per house hold increased to $501 nationally, which is a small leap from $488 in 2016.
The survey shows surprising turns, which could impact how parents will shop heading into the 2017-2018 academic year. Deloitte has produced this survey for ten years, with each edition shedding light on a new perspective. This year's survey highlights a shift in school supplies lists, showing a decrease in the need for both traditional and technology-based supplies, with spending being allocated to other necessities. 
Read: Back To School 2017: 9 Shopping Sales And Deals You Need To Know
Rob Sides, vice chairman of Deloitte LLP, explained that the transition comes from a decreased need for supplies because schools have increasingly become more tech-driven, which allowed parents to designate further spending towards clothing instead.
"With today’s technology-based education system there is less need for traditional school supplies, likely contributing to the shift toward more spending on clothing and accessories before children head back to school," Sides said, according to Deloitte's website. "Part of this shift may also come from the popularity of pre-configured school supply kits, which 30 percent of families plan to use."
Average spending is expected to increase by 10 percent, raking in $284 per household. Traditional school supplies fall by 4 percent ($104), computers decrease by 4 percent ($307) and electronics are expected to take the smallest hit at 2 percent ($254). 
With increased spending making waves amongst online retailers, in-store shopping remains the reigning champ, reeling in more than twice the revenue of online platforms at an average of $288 in-store vs. $103 online. However, consumers are shifting where they allocate their money to, seeing an increase in spending with mass merchants and office venues instead of department stores and specialty shops.
Read: What's The Best Back To School Laptop? Back To School 2017's Top College Computers
Spending is expected to differ regionally, with the South accruing 44 percent of the sales ($554). The Northeast ($513), West ($455) and Midwest ($443) will reportedly follow shortly behind. 
The internet is commonly used to plan 61 percent of shopper's in-store purchases, but one-fifth are "undecided," which means they could potentially shop for supplies online or in-store. Sides claims this is a crucial market to recruit because it's a $5.4 billion market. 
"Retailers should aggressively pursue the 'undecided' consumer because they collectively represent nearly $5.4 billion this back-to-school shopping season," Sides said. "This segment is up for grabs but likely to go to retailers that draw customers in early with promotions and digital experiences that make store visits even more attractive."
Since 68 percent of survey participants claimed they plan to purchase supplies from retailers providing free shipping, online retailers could tap into the undecided market this way by combining great deals, too. Fifty-two percent of online shoppers also prefer to purchase supplies from stores that offer in-store return options. 
Back To School Sale, pictured July 28, 2003 at a Wal-Mart store in Illinois, parents on average spend $501 on school supplies nationwide. Photo: Getty Images
Follow me on Twitter @dory_jackson
United States retailers started marketing Korean beauty products containing snail slime to the mainstream beauty industry, reported Bloomberg Wednesday.
Korean beauty retailers reported earlier this year they would be expanding their products to United States companies such as Target, CVS and Ulta. Over the years, Korean beauty products received a reputation for containing unconventional ingredients like egg whites, starfish extract or snail secretion. The latest craze, snail secretion, is credited with clearing and firming skin.
Read: 10 Skin Care Myths That Need Clearing Up
“People used to talk about French skincare. We don’t really call it that anymore,” Sarah Chung, the head of Landing International Inc., said. “Right now we say it’s K-beauty, but it’s really just great skincare.”  
South Korean beauty companies picked a key moment to expand internationally. According to the Korea International Trade Association, exports to the United States increased to $300 million from 2015 to 2016.
Many Korean beauty companies use snail secretions to enhance the effects of their products.  Photo: JACK GUEZ/AFP/Getty Images
Despite the reputation Korean beauty products developed in regards to snail slime, the Bascunan family of Chile, who sold snails for food to the French in the 1980s, is probably credited with discovering the slime’s benefits.
“The discovery of the cream emerged due to a reaction our skin showed after getting in contact with snails on a snails farm we  had at the beginning of the 1980s,” Fernando Bascunan Dockendorff said in a 2006 AP video.
The South Korean beauty industry has historically been innovative, so they adopted snail slime as an important component in many of their beauty products — including the ones they brought to the United States.
Landing International Inc. partnered with Ulta’s Korean collection available in Ulta stores. Ulta increased its K-beauty selections this March. Target began selling K-beauty products in about 850 stores and said the products represent around 25 percent of total premium offerings. CVS stocked 2,100 of its stores with K-Beauty HQ in April. Both Target and CVS joined forces with Alicia Yoon, the founder of K-beauty retail platform Peach & Lily.  
CVS said introducing the products had been “very successful.”
Read: 5 Popular Anti-Aging Cosmetic Dermatology Treatments
AmorePacific Corp., South Korea’s largest beauty company, brought five brands to the U.S. and is preparing to begin selling a sixth brand intended for millennials, innisfree.
First-time buyers may be discouraged from buying K-beauty products because of the cost, David Tyrrell, a global skincare analyst at Mintel Group Ltd., told Bloomberg. K-beauty products are listed at higher prices than drugstore brands and at similar prices as more high-end beauty products.
Certain products stocked include the $22 Missha Super Aqua Cell Renew Snail Essential Moisturizer at Target, the $24.99 Elisha Coy Skin Repairing Snail Cream at CVS and the $9.50 sample kit at Ulta.
As congressional lawmakers feuded over the fate of the nation’s health care system, insurance giant UnitedHealth Group reported stellar second-quarter earnings, which included more than $15.8 billion in revenue for a business segment at the roots of multiple class-action lawsuits against the company — and one that many blame for skyrocketing drug prices in the U.S.
The company faces three class-action lawsuits, one of which is a combination of two earlier class-actions, alleging that it violated the Employee Retirement Income Security Act, or ERISA, which mandates that the insurer and its pharmacy benefit managers act as fiduciaries — that is, act in the interests of their customers. The accusations outline a system of drug price-gouging, in which the pharmacy benefit manager — in UnitedHealth’s cases, OptumRx — allegedly forced pharmacies to charge fraudulent premiums for prescription medications and pocketed the difference.
Read: Why Are Drug Prices Going Up? Democratic Power Players Help Pharmaceutical Industry In Connecticut Battle
The pharmacy benefit managers, or PBMs, have also been accused of imposing so-called “gag clauses” on pharmacies, keeping them from informing customers that they can actually save money by sidestepping their insurers and paying out of pocket. Legislators in Connecticut (ground zero of the U.S.  insurance industry)  sought to combat the practice with a new law reluctantly signed by the state’s governor this month.
Two bills introduced in the House and Senate in March pushed for greater transparency in the pharmaceutical market and among PBMs. Express Scripts and CVS Caremark — which, together with OptumRx, control 70 percent of the market and generate hundreds of billions of dollars in revenues each year — have spent hundreds of thousands of dollars in 2017 on lobbying efforts related in part to those proposals and other legislation involving PBMs.
Read: How Many People Have Health Insurance In The US? New Poll Reveals Rise In Percentage
During UnitedHealth’s earnings conference call Tuesday, Larry Renfro, the CEO of Optum, provided some detail on the UnitedHealth subsidiary’s pharmacy benefit manager business, pointing specifically to OptumRx’s 5-percent year-over-year revenue growth. The number of prescriptions filled by OptumRx, he added, had also grown 5 percent over the previous year, to 322 million in the second quarter. His remarks on OptumRx’s lowering consumer prices based on greater efficiency contrasted sharply with the allegations of the three lawsuits.
“Revenue yield per script [prescription] was flat as we effectively passed supply chain improvements on to our customers. We continued to experience strong customer retention as large sophisticated buyers who value transparency are attracted to our data-driven clinically integrated approach,” Renfro said. “In 2018 we again expect to grow our adjusted script volume above the industry growth rate.”
Tim Wicks, Optum’s chief financial officer, chimed in to tell analysts that Optum’s revenues were “in line with our expectations on the quarter,” and echoed Renfro’s mention of improvements in the pharmaceutical supply chain that he said had pushed down what consumers paid for drugs.
“I would point also then to OptumRx and just want to clarify this work in the supply chain that we've been doing is translating into lower drug costs for consumers and customers and that really would translate then into lower external revenue for this quarter even though external scripts were up year-over-year,” Wicks said. Despite those “lower drug costs,” he added, external revenue was still “in line with our expectations.”
John Prince, the CEO of OptumRx, next told analysts, “I would say, overall, we are very optimistic about OptumRx's compelling buyer proposition in the market. It is resonating well and we are seeing very good results.”
UnitedHealth did not immediately respond to International Business Times requests for comment about the lawsuits and the earnings call.
When a shocking video of a passenger being dragged off of a United Airlines (NYSE: UAL) plane went viral in April there were questions as to how the Chicago-based company would weather the storm of criticism. The video caused widespread condemnation of the airline carrier, including calls for boycotts.
Months later, it appears that consumers either have a short memory or collectively responded to the incident with an apathetic shrug. The forced removal of 69-year-old Dr. David Dao failed to dent the airline’s earnings in its recent report.
READ: What Is Frontier Airlines? Budget Carrier Adds 21 New Destinations
On Tuesday, United reported an $818 million profit for the most recent quarter, a 39 percent increase from last year. United also reported that for the first half of 2017 they had 71 million passengers, a 4.2 percent increase from last year.
Investors have also taken notice. United’s share price dropped 1.1 percent Tuesday, but it’s up 8.5 percent for the year.
“Redoubling our focus on the customer experience, closing the margin gap with our peers and delivering strong returns to our investors, we have made important progress and moved United decisively forward,” said United CEO Oscar Munoz in a statement. “No single quarter constitutes a trend and we still have much further to go before we fully realize the potential of this airline and exceed the expectations of our customers. But, we also know that one success begets another and the strong financial and operating performance we posted this quarter adds to the momentum that all of us here at United are determined to build upon.”
The Dr. Dao video began as a phenomenon when it was posted by a fellow passenger on Twitter. Dr. Dao allegedly received a broken nose, a concussion, two knocked-out teeth and sinus problems from the incident after he refused to give up his seat on an overbooked flight. He eventually settled a lawsuit with the airline for an undisclosed amount.
The public relations nightmare may have been overcome by a limited number of options. The majority of flights in the U.S. are controlled by only four airlines: United, Delta, American and Southwest, the New York Times reported Tuesday.
READ: Ann Coulter Continues To Tweet Against Delta Airlines: Twitter Asks Her To 'Get Over It'
“It’s very difficult at this point in time for consumers to exact a penalty against airlines that have exhibited poor customer service,” said Northeastern University economics professor John Kwoka Jr. to the Times. 
Despite United’s success, it still trails Delta Air Lines' (NYSE: DAL) profits. Delta’s second quarter profits were $1.2 billion, about 30 percent higher than United’s.
Frontier Airlines is a low-cost carrier based in Denver, Colorado, and its biggest hub is at Denver International Airport. But the airline, which was started in 1994, announced Tuesday that they will expand to 21 new destinations and add 85 new routes.
The move comes as the company prepares for its initial public offering, according to the Denver Post Tuesday. Frontier will offer the second largest number of destinations from the Denver airport. The airline competes with United Airlines and Southwest Airlines, both of whom run large hubs in Denver.
READ: Ann Coulter Continues To Tweet Against Delta Airlines: Twitter Asks Her To 'Get Over It'
“Customers will benefit not only from the broad new selection of nonstop routes, but our growing network will provide more than 1,000 new connecting route options,” Frontier CEO Barry Biffle said in a statement. “By taking advantage of our natural share of connecting passengers, we can offer our low fares to even more of America. This is particularly important through our largest hub and our home in Denver.”
The company adds four California destinations, including Fresno, Palm Springs, San Jose and Ontario. They also add two Florida destinations, Jacksonville and Pensacola; two Oklahoma destinations, Tulsa and Oklahoma City; and other destinations such as El Paso, Texas and Spokane, Washington.
The company will also be adding routes to its existing destinations that include Providence, Rhode Island and Tampa, Florida.
The company expects to expand its fleet to 76 jets by 2018. At the end of 2016, the company had 63 jets.
The new destinations and routes will begin in the fall and winter and the company will offer promotional prices to advertise the expansions, with some seats going for as low as $39.
READ: American Airlines Crew Forced Passenger To Sit Next To Masturbating Man, Woman Claims
In spite of its expansion plans, the company faced a public relations nightmare last winter. A December storm in 2016 caused major disruptions to the airline and caused many passengers to miss their holiday destinations. Frontier’s chief operating officer and Vice President of Customer Experience both stepped down after the incident.
The company earned $200 million in profit last year on $1.7 billion in revenue while carrying 14.9 million passengers, according to the Wall Street Journal in March. The company looks to compete with other discount carriers Spirit Airlines and Allegiant Travel.
President Donald Trump’s “Made in America” week kicked off Monday, but many of the products that Trump's own companies sell are not, in fact, made in America. When asked about that fact Monday, White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer demurred.
“It’s not appropriate for me to stand up here and comment about a business. I believe that is a little out of bounds,” said Spicer.
READ: Trump Approval Ratings: 67% Disapprove President's Twitter Use, New Poll Says
On Monday Trump held a “Made in America” event at the White House, inviting companies from all 50 states to showcase products manufactured in the U.S. The event featured brands such as Stetson cowboy hats, made in Texas, and Steinway Pianos, made in New York. 
Many of the American-made items were featured on the White House's South Lawn. However, notably not featured were any of the Trump-brand wares. Rick Johnson, CEO of Oklahoma company Ditch Witch, thinks it would be better if Trump-branded items were made in the U.S. 
“I think it would set a good example for all companies,” said Johnson to the New York Post Monday. 
Forbes Magazine estimated in February that Trump’s product branding business is worth somewhere between $6 to $10 million. The following items comprise a list of Trump-branded items that are made primarily in foreign countries.
1. Trump Ties
The ties sold by the Trump organization are made mostly in China, according to the president, who talked about it openly on the campaign trail last year.
“I talk about my ties in speeches. I'm open. I say my ties many times are made in China,” said Trump in an interview last July on CNN. “ It's very hard to have apparel made in this country.”
Poltifact found last year that in addition to China, Trump ties were made in Indonesia and Vietnam as well.
2. Suits
The materials used to make Trump’s suits, shirts and suit jackets are made in a variety of places. On Amazon, many of the suits are listed as imported.
BuzzFeed News found some of the suits to be manufactured in Indonesia. BuzzFeed News also visited a factory in Honduras that makes Trump shirts. In a 2016 ABC News interview, Trump acknowledged that suits were also made in Mexico.
3. Eyeglasses
Trump’s glasses, which can be purchased at eyeglasses.com, are listed as being manufactured in China.
4. Furniture
Trump’s furniture offerings are from several countries including Turkey, China and Germany. Furniture Today reported in 2015 that brass and stainless steel pieces and components of Trump's furniture brand were made in Germany, while upholstery components were made in Turkey. Other items, such as lamps, are listed on Amazon as originating from China.
5. Trump Hotel toiletries
Toiletry items at Trump Hotels such as shampoo, body wash, moisturizers, shower caps and laundry bags were made in China, according to the Washington Post last year. Pens were made in China and Taiwan.
READ: Why Is Donald Trump More Popular Than Hillary Clinton?
Ivanka Trump, the president’s daughter and advisor, has a fashion line that relies on low-wage workers creating her clothes in factories in Bangladesh, Indonesia and China, according to the Washington Post last week.
Some of Trump’s items are made in the United States, however. Trump’s Make America Great hats are made in Los Angeles, according to the Associated Press last year.
When asked on the bank’s second-quarter earnings conference call about the future of financial deregulation, Goldman Sachs Chief Financial Officer Martin Chavez declined to answer. But money talks, of course — and the bank has spent more than $1 million on finance policy-related lobbying efforts on the federal level, has donated hundreds of thousands of dollars to members of House and Senate committees with bank policy authority and has five former employees in high-ranking positions in President Donald Trump’s administration.
Several analysts on the Tuesday morning call cited a June report from the Treasury Department, which is headed by Steven Mnuchin, who left Goldman as chief information officer in 2002 after 17 years at the bank. The report recommended adjustments to leverage ratios, or ratios of debt to equity that banks are required to keep on hand in case of a crisis. Those with 10 percent leverage ratios would be permitted to sidestep the Volcker Rule, a Dodd-Frank Act measure separating commercial banking, such as consumers’ checking and savings accounts, from proprietary trading. Treasury labeled the allowance a “regulatory off-ramp.”
Read:   What Do The Big Banks Think Of Washington? To Find Out, Just Listen To Them
The Brookings Institution warned, in its analysis of the Treasury report, that this “off-ramp” would give banks “incentives to increase their risk exposures since they are not penalized for higher risks… This proposal would over time lead to a much riskier, not more stable, financial system.”
But when questioned about how the report’s suggestions, including those involving leverage ratios and the Volcker Rule, might affect Goldman’s future, Chavez demurred.
“I would say that… I don’t think it would be useful to call out a particular rule,” he said. Later, when asked again about those deregulatory measures, he declined once more to weigh in: “Again, I would say there is the Treasury proposal and there is discussion on how Volcker might evolve… I wouldn’t make any specific comments on how Volcker might evolve.”
At one point, referencing the report’s dozens of recommendations, however, Chavez noted that “about two-thirds of them are activities that the regulators could undertake that don’t require authorization” from the House and Senate, implying that agency leaders could move swiftly to implement the changes suggested by the Treasury Department.
Read:   Former Goldman Sachs Exec Who Worked For Trump Aide Warns Of Another Financial Crisis
In addition to Mnuchin, Goldman has four other alums in the Trump Administration's upper ranks. Those officials are, for the most part, in positions of economic policy decision-making, meaning their work could easily have a direct impact on their former employer.
Former Goldman Chief Operating Officer and President Gary Cohn, for example, serves as Trump’s chief economic adviser and director of the National Economic Council. James Donovan, Mnuchin’s deputy, worked in investment management and advising at Goldman for close to 25 years. Former Goldman partner Dina Powell was named Senior Counselor to the President for Economic Initiatives in March. And, though he’s better-known for heading the far-right website Breitbart News, Trump’s Chief Strategist Stephen Bannon worked in mergers and acquisitions at the bank in the 1980s before moving on to a series of media upstarts.
Outside of the White House, Goldman has had a presence in the House and Senate as well. In the first three months of this year alone, both directly and through lobbying firms, the bank spent $1.26 million on federal lobbying related to policy issues that affect its bottom line, such as the 1956 Bank Holding Company Act, which defines Federal Reserve supervision of large financial institutions; trade policy; tax reform; the Dodd-Frank Act, which sought to rein in the behavior that led to the 2008 financial crisis, and its deregulatory replacement, the Financial CHOICE Act, among others, according to the Senate’s lobbying database.
The bank donated around $266,000 to members of the Senate Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs and about $345,000 to the House Financial Services Committee during the 2016 election cycle, according to OpenSecrets data. (Its top individual recipient in 2016 was Hillary Clinton, with over $341,000 in donations.)
Those expenditures amounted to spare change when compared to Goldman’s higher-than-expected second-quarter revenues, which totaled $7.89 billion for the three months ending June 30.
The CEO of Bank of America, which also released its above-expectations second-quarter earnings Tuesday (and also counted Clinton as its number-one donations recipient during the 2016 election cycle), was slightly more explicit about his hopes and expectations for the Trump administration’s agenda during the bank's earnings call. Asked by an analyst if he found the Treasury report recommendations helpful, Brian Moynihan described a “lottery list” of expected regulatory actions.
“All of that would be helpful. There's a good amount of work that's gone in by all the industry groups, all the individual companies, and the administration to come up with a list of things...” he said. “There's no question, but in areas where things have gotten too far, you've got to bring them back a little bit and that lottery list is really there to provide it... [At] the end of [the] day, a careful revisiting of some of these things to ensure that we maintain the safety and soundness while getting good regulation is critical, and I think hopefully the ball is moving forward on that.”
Like Goldman, Bank of America has been active on the lobbying front. The bank spent $800,000 this year on lobbying efforts at the federal level involving Dodd-Frank, the Financial CHOICE Act and financial bankruptcy law, among other issues, according to the Senate’s lobbying database.
Bank of America gave nearly $300,000 to House Financial Services Committee members and more than $86,000 to Senate Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee members, according to OpenSecrets data — a relatively small total compared to its $22.8 billion in revenue.
Washington's political agenda around bringing manufacturing back to the United States is driving a need for smarter production processes. Advancements in the internet of things (IoT), 3D printing, predictive maintenance and a whole range of automation proof of concepts, are now seen as potential enablers to reach a price point which was achievable through outsourcing to low cost countries.
Warren Harris, CEO, Tata Technologies has been analysing this spike in interest in manufacturing, the bias about bringing it back to the States and how that might be achieved. "Some of these things that have been theory and proof of concept type initiatives in the past are actually now attracting the right type of investment and the right type of commitment."
Harris added that the political dynamic from Washington is also, to some extent, to be found in the industry's rhetoric surrounding Brexit and its potential in the UK. But can President Trump's protectionist policies really be good for a global company like Tata Technologies?
"I don't want to wear my political colours on my sleeve," he said, "our value proposition is dependent upon connecting teams of people and skills and capability around the world, and when there are obstacles that are put in the way of that then that presents a challenge for us.
"But given the cost of labour in the US, manufacturing can't be brought back in the way in which it was originally outsourced. So technology is being looked at as an alternative, and that is certainly providing opportunity and initiatives that we have an opportunity to intersect with."
A popular narrative around technologies like AI and machine learning is about the imminent loss of jobs these could cause. For example, last year Uber acquired a company which specialises in self driving trucks (truck driving is one of the last well compensated blue collar jobs in the US); and Bill Gates has even said we should to be looking at a tax on robots and other forms of automation.
"I believe that there is a need for governments and countries to look at the change that's coming and to prepare for it," said Harris. "That's going to require investment; a re-skilling of the population in different areas, which will have to be funded. I think that there is a need for the public sector and the private sector to come together and to talk about the options and make sure we are not forced to react to this; that we are in a position to plan for it."
Automotive disruption
Disruption is hitting the automotive industry from a number of angles. There's the evolution of new energy vehicles (NEVs) and the shift towards AI and driverless cars. Another area is the connected car space and the value that its concomitant data holds for big technology firms. The future will also see ride sharing become prominent, with all sorts of variations on this theme made possible by technology like blockchain.
Harris said: "There are opportunities for things like blockchain, particularly when you look at the way in which the automotive industry is evolving from an ownership model to much more of a service model. The view is that in ten years' time, mobility is increasingly going to be underpinned by ride share and car share type solutions.
Newsweek is hosting a Structure Security event Sept. 26-27 in San Francisco.  Photo: Newsweek Media Group
"At that point there will be multiple players in the value chain, and each player is going to want to monetise the contribution that they make and I think conventional pricing systems and collection systems are going to struggle to be deployed in a seamless way."
If you drive up the utility of a vehicle, then this should mean less cars on the road and a dip in production volumes. Harris believes an adjustment to car ownership rates in the developed world will be balanced by increased penetration in developing markets. "If you take a look at vehicle penetration rates in the US for instance, it's about 800 vehicles per thousand people. I think it's in excess of 600 in the UK. And yet if you compare that to China, it's 80 per 1,000 people; and in India it's about 23 per 1,000 people.
"I don't think that the unit volume is really going to be the existential challenge that some people are predicting. I think that the bigger issue is around how conventional automotive value chain is going to play out," he said.
Today the value chain is controlled by the OEM (original equipment manufacturer) and to a lesser extent by the dealer network. If we look ten years from now, that model is going to be completely disrupted, said Harris. He cited the recent replacement of Ford CEO Mark Fields Ford, with Jim Hackett, the boss of the company's smart and driverless car division.
"Ford has positioned better results in the past couple of years than they have at any time in their history, but the shareholders and the board of directors had a crisis in confidence that Ford was not ready for this brave new world.
"I think you are going to see more of that over the next couple of years; I do believe that the challenge will be how do the OEMs line up, how do the dealers line up. It's a real challenge that today's incumbents are not exactly ready to take on."
Apple's attempted car
It's been well documented that Apple has thrown plenty of resources at creating a car, dubbed Project Titan, only to back off and re-focus on a telematics operating system. The simple view is that vehicles are going to evolve in the same way that the smartphone handset has evolved and be a platform from which to deliver services, said Harris.
"If you look at some of the new entrants to the market, particularly the Chinese entrants - companies like NextEV and Faraday Future - those companies see it in the same way; they see the vehicle as a way of continuing the connected experience that one has at home and in the work place.
"So I think there is no question that Apple and Google and several other companies are going to want to play in this space, and I think what they're struggling with at the moment is how they play and in what areas they lay claim to.
"They are also working out that the designing and manufacturing a vehicle is perhaps a lot more complex than they originally anticipated. They jumped in with great deal of enthusiasm and now, quite prudently, they are reflecting on the experience that they have had over the last couple or three years and are deciding on how to refine their strategies.
"But I have no doubt that the big technology players are going to be a major force in mobility going forward - and that's not just Apple and Google, but also the likes of Intel, Nvidia, Cisco, Samsung etc.
"This is a space that will challenge the smart phone platform in terms of its influence on what we do and in terms of the direct and the associated revenue it drives. And there is no question that if these organisations are going to continue to be relevant, that they have to be part of it."
Delta Air Lines said Sunday it would refund conservative author Ann Coulter’s $30 after she criticized the airline for removing her from an “extra room seat” on a flight.
“We are sorry that the customer [Coulter] did not receive the seat she reserved and paid for. More importantly, we are disappointed that the customer has chosen to publicly attack our employees and other customers by posting derogatory and slanderous comments and photos in social media. Her actions are unnecessary and unacceptable,” Delta said in a statement. “We will refund Ms. Coulter's $30 for the preferred seat on the exit row that she purchased.”
Read: United Airlines Puts ScHoolboy Q's Dog In Wrong Flight, Rapper Asks For Reason
The incident happened July 15 on a flight to West Palm Beach, Florida, from New York's LaGuardia airport, when Coulter was reassigned from an aisle to a window seat on the exit row. According to Delta, Coulter was initially given a window seat, but she modified it to an aisle seat within 24 hours of the flight's departure. The airline further said it reassigned Coulter to another window seat on the same row to take in seating requests from other passengers.
Delta’s statement came in response to Coulter’s bashing of the airline on Twitter. The 55-year-old called it the “worst airline in America” after the flight attendant told her to give up her paid seat for another passenger.
"So glad I took time investigate the aircraft & PRE-BOOK a specific seat on @Delta, so some woman could waltz at the last min & take my seat," Coulter tweeted. She went on to say: "But at least @Delta was nice @ it, summarily snatching my ticket from my hand & ordering me to move w/o explanation, compensation or apology."
Delta Air Lines explained there was confusion with seating assignments during boarding and a flight attendant asked passengers to move to the seats printed on their respective tickets.
Delta also took to Twitter to react to Coulter’s criticism.

A spokesman for Delta told International Business Times on Saturday that Coulter was in the same extra room row, although she was given a different seat.
Following Delta’s response on Sunday, Coulter — who is 6-feet tall — clarified the matter was not about $30.
“If you thought it was about $30, @Delta, why didn't you give this woman $30 and let me stay in my PRE-BOOKED, ASSIGNED seat?,” she tweeted along with a photo of female passenger.
Read: United Airlines Apologizes To Colorado Mother Whose Infant Son Fell Ill Aboard Delayed Flight
“$30!  It cost me $10,000 of my time to pre-select the seat I wanted, investigate type of plane & go back periodically to review seat options,” Coulter wrote on Twitter.
“But I love @Delta declaring my tweets unacceptable. @Delta now dictating acceptable conduct off the plane. NOT fascist at all. #Resist,” she continued.
Twitter came out in support of Delta and blamed Coulter for blowing up the issue.






Illicit antiquities are once again in the headlines. US retailer Hobby Lobby was recently fined US$3m (£2.3m) for illegally acquiring antiquities that were most likely looted from Iraq. Collectors and museums are therefore being reminded to undertake due diligence in checking collections’ histories before purchasing cultural property.
The implication here is, of course, that when the item on the auction block has been legally excavated and diligently recorded by archaeologists, there isn’t a problem. This is an enormous mistake. Such sales may be legal, but they are still ethically problematic.
At its most direct, the public auction of archaeologically procured finds puts those objects at risk of disappearing into the private domain, where their integrity is no longer assured. There are no international legal protections, no “obligations of ownership”, for cultural property in private possession.
More broadly, the legal status of these sales confers an air of legitimacy to the antiquities trade. Yet as scholars have demonstrated, however one looks at it this is a “grey trade”. Illicit antiquities – that is things without provenance, accompanied by fake documents or with opaque ownership histories – are likely to be offered at the same sales. Examples of illicit antiquities pulled from a Christie’s auction in 2015 are a case in point.
Inflating prices
The origin of items offered by auction houses is supposed to be subjected to close scrutiny. This seems reassuring, but there’s a worry that the records of discovery made by archaeologists now not only certifies auction lots, but also inflates their monetary worth. And this in a wider art market where prices have never been higher and is at risk of severe overheating.
Whether they covet Old Masters or ancient pots, many bidders seek to acquire cultural capital – not out of some sort of honed connoisseurship or a sense of societal patronage – but as immediate monetary investments and as symbols of financial wealth. Exceptional prices are translated into headline news, reducing heritage to economic value and undermining attempts to promote meaningful engagements with the past. Sales from museums in this context threaten public trust in them.
Most seriously of all, these exorbitant prices and their media profile fuel market demand and become an incentive for looting. When heritage is sold by and for the privileged it is those that live in proximity to archaeological sites that stand to lose the most. It denies source communities the long-term touristic potential of sites, especially in countries where there is political and economic volatility or instability.
Looting can have devastating consequences – lives have been lost. Well-meaning efforts to protect heritage in situ have been advocated, but there needs to be more recognition that the problem often begins and ends with the art markets of Europe, North America and Asia.
Public to private
Despite all of these problems, sales of “licit” archaeological finds are still generally seen as unproblematic. Just how embedded this problem is can be seen from a case from October 2014, when two lots of Egyptian antiquities from the Archaeological Institute of America (AIAs) St Louis Chapter were offered for sale at Bonhams, London.
Lot 160 was billed as “the treasure of Harageh” and comprised a group of 4,000-year old stone vessels and rare examples of inlaid silver jewellery. Lot 162 was made up of a single stone headrest. The former was removed from auction following the intercession of the Metropolitan Museum of Art and a private sale to it for an undisclosed sum, while the latter exceeded its estimated price at auction and disappeared into private hands.
These artefacts were originally discovered during excavations conducted under the auspices of Flinders Petrie’s British School of Archaeology in Egypt (BSAE), who had regulations on where objects should go. The finds were legally removed from Egypt, they were fully documented, duly published by the BSAE and a few delivered to the St Louis Museum in 1914 under the understanding that these were for public benefit, not for private profit. A century later the St Louis AIA branch contravened that agreement.
There were other options. The objects could have been donated to another institution capable of ensuring their long-term care and public accessibility (even if held in storage). But instead, they went straight to the auction house.
Time to speak out
When this auction was announced, a colleague and I condemned it in a public statement. But many believed our reaction was melodramatic. As far as they were concerned the sale was completely above board. It did not even breach AIA’s own ethical codes, which at the time only denounced the “trade in undocumented artifacts”.
But given the hugely problematic implications of selling material on the open market, we must be vocal in denouncing instances in which archaeological heritage is commercialised in this way. The former editor-in-chief of the American Journal of Archaeology agreed. This is especially important given the current ideology of austerity in many countries, leading to concerns that institutions may begin to consider their public collections as financial assets rather than as cultural obligations.
Yet museums still dispose of heritage from other countries on the open market. Toledo Museum of Art in Ohio sold ancient Egyptian artefacts from its founding collection in Winter 2016 through Christie’s, despite an outcry from the Egyptian authorities. At the same time, it has been shown that other parts of Toledo’s collection which are being retained are likely to include illicit antiquities.
We have a strong moral obligation to challenge these “legal” sales. Over the last two centuries, millions of archaeological artefacts have been excavated and exported by rich colonial nations from developing countries whose own resources are now desperately stretched as they attempt to halt the destructive looting of their heritage for a first world market. At the very least we should be responsible and accountable on their behalf for material we excavated and exported. We should not condone those that seek financial profit from the past, which is the sole objective of auction houses.
Alice Stevenson, Senior Lecturer in Museum Studies, UCL
This article was originally published on The Conversation. Read the original article.
The Conversation's logo. Photo: The Conversation

Some small-business owners burdened with high health care costs would get a break from an obscure provision in the Senate health bill. It offers less regulation, more bargaining power and better prices.
But those benefits could come at a cost to others.
The clause — in the proposal advanced by Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) last month — would exempt insurance sold through “associations” from most Affordable Care Act mandates and state regulations. That means the plans could offer lower-cost coverage that does not include a broad range of medical services or sets premiums based on the health of the businesses’ employees.
In these plans, small businesses can join an association — which may be loosely based on certain types of professional, trade or interest groups — that offers insurance to members.
“Our members are clamoring for more control and more affordable options,” said Kevin Kuhlman, director of government relations for the National Federation of Independent Business, which has long opposed the ACA and supports association plans. The idea also has the backing of the National Restaurant Association.
Critics counter that the provision creates two markets, a lightly regulated one with skimpier and less expensive coverage that would attract businesses with younger or healthier workers and a second market left with mainly older, sicker consumers and rapidly rising premiums.
The Senate plan — along with other GOP proposals that would loosen ACA requirements for some policies — could damage both the small-group and individual markets if it leads to cheaper plans siphoning off the healthiest consumers.
State insurance commissioners warned in a letter Wednesday that the Senate proposal would strip regulators’ authority “to preserve important consumer protections, effectively oversee the plans or ensure a level playing field.” While encouraging the idea of more insurance options, the National Association of Insurance Commissioners said the proposal as written “would lead to significant disruptions in the small group marketplace and higher premiums and fewer coverage choices for many small businesses.”
It would create “an unlevel playing field” that “is likely to lead to cherry-picking, adverse selection and increased costs for sicker individuals,” the American Academy of Actuaries warned in a June 30 letter.
The Senate bill’s language is similar to legislation adopted in March by the House. Previous legislation passed the House in 2003 but never won approval in the Senate.
Association health plans have been around for decades, but some had solvency problems and went bankrupt, leaving consumers on the hook with unpaid medical bills. In several states, regulators investigated whether the plans were advertising that they had comprehensive coverage when, in fact, they provided little or no coverage for such things as chemotherapy or doctor office visits.
The ACA, passed in 2010, still allows the plans but requires them to follow state rules for small-group coverage. That cemented authority in the states to oversee association plans.
The Senate proposal was drafted by longtime proponent Sen. Mike Enzi (R-Wyo.). It would classify association plans as large-group plans, like those offered by major employers to their workers. The large-group plans face far fewer ACA rules and are generally overseen by the federal government.
Large-group plans don’t have to offer the ACA’s 10 “essential health benefits,” and insurers can base their premiums on the health of those covered, although the employer must charge both sick and healthy workers the same amounts. Additionally, most traditional large-employer plans tend to be more generous than the ACA requires. Association plans, by contrast, are not generally as comprehensive as large-employer coverage.
Despite the Senate’s previous rejection of similar legislative language, the idea may have more legs now.   After all, some GOP lawmakers appear to be embracing a similar proposal by Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Texas). It aims to allow insurers to sell individual policies that don’t meet all the requirements of the ACA, so long as they sell at least one type of policy that does.
Support for either Cruz’s plan or the association proposal will run up against opposition from state regulators, actuaries and some small-business owners.
Insurers, they say, would be able to provide minimal benefits, charge small businesses based on the relative health of their workers, or both. That could be a boon for some companies, including some restaurants or other franchise operations that employ mainly younger, healthier workers. Self-employed individuals who are healthy might also be able to join associations and qualify for the cheaper policies. But as those consumers are siphoned off, insurers would raise rates on their other plans, which must follow more stringent consumer protection rules, including those left in the ACA.
“Some small businesses might be able to move into these plans and save money, but that will cause rates to go up for others [with older or sicker workers],” said David Chase, vice president of national outreach for the Small Business Majority, which supports the ACA.
If enough healthy small groups opt for the association health plans, siphoning off those consumers, “the small-group market will go into a death spiral if only employers with sicker and older workers participate,” said Mila Kofman, the former Maine insurance commissioner who now heads the DC Health Benefit Exchange Authority.
Insurance commissioners and actuaries have made similar dire predictions about the effects of splitting the market. Those concerns are overblown, say supporters of association health plans.
Said Kuhlman at NFIB: “The existing marketplace [premium costs] may go up a percentage point or two, but other [small businesses] would have a more affordable plan.”
Kaiser Health News (KHN) is a national health policy news service. It is an editorially independent program of the Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation.
Kaiser Health News, a nonprofit health newsroom whose stories appear in news outlets nationwide, is an editorially independent part of the Kaiser Family Foundation.
An air conditioning malfunction on an Allegiant Air plane on June 22 caused several passengers to faint. The Indiana bound plane was forced to return to St. Pete-Clearwater International Airport in Florida after the passengers complained about the uncomfortable temperature inside the cabin, the Tampa Bay Times reported.
The reports about the incident surfaced Friday more than two weeks after the incident took place. Two people received treatment after they showed signs of overheating.
Read: United Airlines Puts ScHoolboy Q's Dog In Wrong Flight, Rapper Asks For Reason
“I don’t sweat and I was dripping,” one of the passengers, named Karen Willey, told the local newspaper.
Michele Routh, Public Relations Director, St. Pete-Clearwater International Airport, told New York Daily News a total of four passengers were examined with heat-related issues.  While reports claimed some passengers passed out on the flight, Allegiant spokeswoman Hilarie Grey said no one actually fainted. She said the pilot called first responders after he learned one of the flight attendants started to feel faint. 
Grey added that the malfunctioning of a cooling valve was believed to be the cause of the incident.  
After arriving at the gate, passengers were given medical assistance as many complained of the heat inside the cabin.
There is no rule by the Federal Aviation Administration over the temperature inside a cabin, and it can be adjusted as per the customers’ preference.
Read: Emirates Airline Caught Pouring Unused Champagne Back Into Bottle
“Bottom line, the airlines and regulators do not consider temperature to be a safety issue. Therefore, it’s low on the list of priorities when it comes to on-time departure,” union spokeswoman Taylor Garland, said in an interview on the airlines' lack of temperature regulations.
According to the Daily News, the FAA did not comment on the latest incident, but said it expected the airlines to “take appropriate action if a cabin temperature condition occurs on the ground that could potentially affect passenger safety.”
There has been a debate over a regulation to maintain a maximum cabin temperature, and the Association of Flight Attendants — a group of at least 50,000 members — has long been petitioning Congress to set it to a maximum of 80 degrees.
Correction: 7/17, 6:30 pm: This story has been corrected to delete an anecdote about a passenger whose complaints related to a flight on United, not Allegiant.
Conservative social and political commentator Ann Coulter went on a Twitter rant Saturday calling Delta Air Lines the "worst airline" in the United States after she was removed from her “extra room seat” on a flight. In a series of tweets, Coulter shared her ordeal with her 1.6 million followers. 
“Just when you think it's safe to fly them again, the worst airline in America is STILL: @Delta,” Coulter tweeted. The 55-year-old followed the tweet with a photo of the flight attendant she claimed told her to give up the seat for another passenger.
"We are aware of the customer's comment, and reaching out directly to her to address the complaint," a spokesman for Delta Air Lines said in an emailed statement to International Business Times, adding the airline was reviewing the seating details of the flight.
Read: Ann Coulter Claims Delta Incident Was Politically Motivated, Posts Texts With Attendant On Twitter
The spokesman said it appeared Coulter was in the same extra room row, just in a different seat. Here's what Coulter said on Twitter. 





 In one of the tweets, Coulter praised JetBlue airline for offering better service than Delta. 

In another tweet, Coulter wrote: "So glad I took time investigate the aircraft & PRE-BOOK a specific seat on @Delta, so some woman could waltz at the last min & take my seat." She went on to say: "But at least @Delta was nice @ it, summarily snatching my ticket from my hand & ordering me to move w/o explanation, compensation or apology."

Soon after Coulter blasted Delta on social media slamming the airline, Twitter users reacted with memes.





This is not the first time an airline in the U.S. is facing criticism over issues related to a passenger's seat. A slew of complaints poured in after the David Dao incident on a United Airlines flight in April when Dao, a passenger, was violently dragged away from the airline's Chicago-Louisville flight because the flight was overbooked. 
Read: Mother Of Baby Who Overheated On United Airlines Flight Speaks Out
In another recent incident earlier this month, a Hawaii middle-school teacher criticized the United Airlines for giving away her toddler's seat to a standby passenger, forcing her to hold her 27-month-old son on her lap during the flight. 
“I told him that I bought both of these tickets and he tells me that he got the ticket on standby. Then he proceeds to sit in the center. I had to move my son onto my lap,” Shirley Yamauchi’ said at the time. “He’s 25 pounds. He’s half my height. I was very uncomfortable. My hand, my left arm was smashed up against the wall. I lost feeling in my legs and left arm.”
In May, a San Francisco man blamed Asiana Airlines for discrimination, alleging he was forced to vacate his seat because of his prosthetic leg. During the confrontation, a flight attendant allegedly told the passenger, Tim Seward, that he’s “not a normal person.” 
JPMorgan Chase, Wells Fargo and Citigroup all beat investors’ expectations upon reporting their second-quarter earnings Friday morning. And while the earnings releases gave investors a look at the banks’ recent performances, the executives’ remarks on subsequent conference calls offered a glimpse of how they expect the President Donald Trump and the Republican-dominated Congress — which they’ve bankrolled with campaign funding and lobbying expenditures — to affect their bottom lines.
JPMorgan’s Jamie Dimon Lambasts ‘Stupid Shit’
JPMorgan CEO Jamie Dimon was memorably explicit in expressing his frustration with the current state of U.S. politics, striking a tone markedly different from the optimism he conveyed in his shareholder letter just several months ago. Although Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton was the top individual recipient of the bank’s campaign donations by a long shot, with over $555,000, according to OpenSecrets, Dimon’s annual letter to investors, published in early April, was filled with implicit praise of the new administration’s deregulatory stance, envisioning “a more business-friendly environment.”
“It is… appropriate to open up the rulebook in the light of day and rework the rules and regulations that don’t work well or are necessary,” Dimon wrote in the letter. “Rest assured, we will be reasonably engaged on this front.”
But on Friday morning, in his second-quarter earnings conference call, Dimon sounded far more forthright — and more frustrated — about  government bureaucracy and post-recession rulemaking. Asked how the political system dampened his confidence in the economy and JPMorgan’s potential, Dimon fumed about the administration’s sluggishness in addressing corporate tax and regulatory reform, as well as aging infrastructure — or, as he put it, “stupid shit.”
“I don’t buy the argument that we’re relegated to this forever; we’re not. And if this administration can make breakthroughs in taxes and infrastructure and regulatory reform, you know — we have become the most, one of the most bureaucratic, confusing, litigious societies on the planet,” Dimon said. “It's almost an embarrassment being an American citizen travelling around the world and listening to the stupid shit we have to deal with in this country.”
He also criticized the media for portraying reduced corporate tax rates as a benefit to corporations when in reality, he said, it’s “important for businesses and business growth.”
Under Dimon, JPMorgan has donated generously to the campaigns of elected officials in congressional committees with jurisdiction over banking and finance policy. The company gave over $365,000 to members of the House Financial Services Committee and more than $104,000 to members of the Senate Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs during the 2016 election cycle, according to OpenSecrets data.
Like that of many other large corporations, JPMorgan’s political spending doesn’t end with campaigns. In the first three months of 2017, the bank spent nearly $1 million on federal lobbying involving issues like tax policy, bankruptcy reform, the Dodd-Frank Act and its deregulatory replacement, the Financial CHOICE Act, along with other related legislation, according to the Senate lobbying database.
Those expenses, however, were small change in comparison to the $25.5 billion in revenue the bank pulled in during the second quarter of 2017.
Citigroup Exec Hopes To ‘Get People In The Seats’ To Address Regulatory Laws
In Citigroup’s earnings conference call, CEO Michael Corbat implied that increasing the number of bank-friendly regulators would help the company get the changes it hopes for.  He referred to a June Treasury Department report that suggested adjusting required leverage ratios, or the ratio of how much debt to equity a bank has on hand. The Treasury also proposed allowing banks with leverage ratios of at least 10 percent to sidestep the Volcker Rule, a measure of Dodd-Frank that separates commercial banking, such as checking and savings accounts, from proprietary trading. In the report, the department dubbed this provision a “regulatory off-ramp.” As the Brookings Institution noted in its analysis of the paper, banks would, as a result of this “off-ramp,” “have incentives to increase their risk exposures since they are not penalized for higher risks… This proposal would over time lead to a much riskier, not more stable, financial system.”
Corbat said in the conference call that Citi has “no issue… with Volcker,” but pointed to the “conflict disagreement” caused by a crowd of regulatory agencies overseeing compliance with such rules, as “they all believe they have the voice at the table.”
“The good news, I think, in most of the [Treasury] paper is that the things that are in there don't require changes of law to implement,” he said. “So hopefully as we get people in the seats, some of the heads of the agencies start to come together. We can actually start to affect some of this change, which hopefully we can start to make some meaningful progress on hopefully in the fourth quarter of this year.”
On the lobbying front, Citi has spent more than $1.9 million this year on lobbying efforts involving tax reform, the Financial CHOICE Act, Russia sanctions, Dodd-Frank and other financial regulatory issues, according to the Senate’s lobbying database. It contributed more than $321,000 to members of the House Financial Services Committee and nearly $180,000 to members of the Senate Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee, according to OpenSecrets. Its reported second-quarter revenues, by contrast, amounted to $17.9 billion. 
Wells Fargo’s Sloan Foresees End of False Accounts Debacle
Days after a California judge’s approval of a $142 million payment by the bank to a class of customers as part of its fake-accounts scandal, multiple investigations and lawsuits of which are still ongoing, Wells Fargo CEO Tomthy Sloan said the bank expected “the settlement to resolve substantially all claims in 10 other pending class actions.”
But Sloan also voiced the bank’s worries about the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau’s recently-issued rule barring sellers of financial products from including small-print clauses in their contracts that keep customers from filing class-action lawsuits. One analyst on the call, for instance, asked whether the new regulation, known as the arbitration rule, applied to past contracts. In his reply, Sloan hinted that expectations for the rule's survival were low.
“I don’t think it’s retroactive,” Sloan said. “But I think there is a lot of concern about this decision and I think that my guess is that, based on the feedback, that we’ll see legislative or administrative and legal action against it.”
Citigroup and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, which doesn’t disclose its membership, have been some of the biggest spenders on recent anti-arbitration rule lobbying efforts. But Wells spent $2.3 million in the first quarter of 2017 on lobbying efforts related to Dodd-Frank, tax reform, congressional investigations of the bank itself and other financial regulatory issues, according to the Senate’s lobbying database.
During the 2016 election cycle, Wells also contributed $192,000 to members of the House Financial Services Committee and $58,500 to members of the Senate Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs, according to funding data from OpenSecrets. Still, that's a fraction of the bank's reported second-quarter revenue, which stood at $22.2 billion. 
UPDATE: 8:41 a.m. EDT — A representative for Emirates airline said in an email to International Business Time that the request for a comment on the viral video has been sent to its Dubai office. This article will be updated when a response is received.
Original Story:
A video showing an Emirates airline steward pouring champagne from a glass back into a bottle went viral Thursday. The clip, which was taken by a passenger on board the Airbus A380, was shared on Reddit.
The clip, which lasts only for few seconds, was also posted on Streamable and had received over one million views at the time of publishing this story. According to the user who shared the video, the incident was accidentally captured on camera. 
Read: Mother Of Baby Who Overheated On United Airlines Flight Speaks Out
“Emirates accidentally got into the frame, did not even notice at first … Dump the bottle of champagne not drunk. Or this is the norm?” one Reddit user wrote, directing the question at the @emirates Instagram page. “So this woman might be trying to get as much as she can,” another user commented.

While many users criticized the airline for pouring in half consumed champagne back into the bottle, some said it is possible the steward poured the drinks that were not consumed.
International Business Times tried to reach Emirates airline for a comment, but there has been no response from the company so far.
This year has been quite rough for airlines as many videos have surfaced on social media pointing out the flaws of the cabin crew. However, most of these incidents did not involve Emirates airline or its staff.
Earlier this month, United Airlines issued an apology to a Hawaii middle-school teacher as the airline gave away her 27-month-old son's seat to a standby passenger. In another incident, United Airlines' employees were accused of destroying a custom wheelchair belonging to a 24-year-old man who suffered from a severe spinal condition.
In June, a Colorado woman criticized the United Airlines for not allowing her to leave a delayed flight after her infant son fell ill due to a rise in the cabin temperature.
Read: American Airlines Flight Reportedly Delayed For Hours Over 'Urine Smell'
United Airlines has seen a slew of complaints since the David Dao incident that took place in April when a passenger was violently dragged away from United’s Chicago-Louisville flight due to overbooking.
Not only United Airlines, but American Airlines and Delta Air Lines have also come under criticism for several incidents. Most recently, a woman accused an American Airlines' flight attended for forcing her to sit next to a man who masturbated while she slept during a flight to Paris.
“I woke up right before landing to have a flight attendant call me to the back of the plane and inform me that the man sitting next to me had been masturbating beside me while I slept,” Chloe King of New York wrote. “The woman to his other side saw it and happened and asked to be moved and the French police had been notified to arrest the man upon landing – they just wanted to let me know.”
Graphene has been theorized by scientists for decades, but it was only in 2004 that these atom-thin sheets of carbon (in the form of graphite) were isolated, leading to the two scientists responsible for the feat — Andre Geim and Konstantin Novoselov at the University of Manchester — being awarded the 2010 Nobel Prize in Physics. This material has many unusual properties that have excited researchers ever since it was isolated for its potential applications in fields as diverse as energy, electronics, medicine, sensors, light processing, and water filtration.
But science would be no good if it was content with what has been discovered over a decade ago, and scientists have been on the lookout for new nanomaterials that go beyond graphene. One such researcher who has been successful in this endeavor is Alexandra Boltasseva, a professor at the Purdue University, West Lafayette, Indiana. At the ongoing 4th International Conference on Quantum Technologies in Moscow, she sat down with International Business Times to talk about the work she is doing, and why it matters, starting with why it is important to not stop at graphene.
Read: Nanomagnets Could Be Used For Next-Generation Data Storage
“Lasers and optical fibers could have been invented long before they actually were. Everyone already knew how to guide light inside dielectrics, but it was only when people developed the right materials with the right set of properties and the right purity that we got internet connections between continents that allow us to Skype and use social media. It is the same sort of thing. In order to enable technologies, we ought to look in materials and see what new properties we can bring to the table. We appreciate and love graphene, and work with it, but that is not the end, it is just the beginning,” she said.
Alexandra Boltasseva, professor of electrical and computer engineering at Purdue University, at the 4th International Conference on Quantum Technologies in Moscow, July 13, 2017. Photo: Himanshu Goenka
The work being done in Boltasseva’s laboratory at Purdue is not about replacing graphene entirely but also includes using it in combination with new materials she and her team are developing. Layering new materials (her lab is doing extensive work on using compounds of titanium, such as titanium nitride and titanium carbide) on top of graphene would combine their properties and “brings together the best of two worlds,” in her words. “Breakthrough and innovation happen at those interfaces.”
What, however, are these breakthroughs and their applications? Many, according to Boltasseva, some of which are already close to commercialization, such as memory storage in computer hard disks. Her lab had some interaction with companies like Seagate Technology, which has been trying to develop new materials for hard disks that are less susceptible to degradation due to heating. The company already holds patents on some of the same materials as produced in Boltasseva’s lab, which it developed on its own.
Another application of these new nanomaterials is in the field of plasmonics, where they can concentrate light at much smaller dimensions than any lens would. For instance, if you shine a laser light on an area only a few nanometers across, much of the energy from the light would be converted to heat. This can lead to localized heating, and this has real-world application in the field of biomedicine, specifically as a cancer treatment therapy, pioneered by Naomi Halas of Rice University, Houston, Texas.
Halas suggested using gold particles to kill cancer cells in the body by first putting those particles in the body and then heating them in locations next to the cancer cells, thereby burning cancer away. However, Boltasseva says the process can be done using the materials her lab is making, and that those materials have better heating efficiency, meaning smaller particles will need to be introduced in the body, and therefore be less toxic too. The same particles can also be used for targeted drug delivery.
Read: Nanoprticles Could Boost Efficiency Of Cancer Drugs
People walk past the solar panels at a wind and solar energy storage and transmission power station of State Grid Corporation of China, in Zhangjiakou of Hebei province, China, March 18, 2016. Photo: Reuters/Jason Lee
Solar energy is another field that stands to gain from these new titanium compounds. Thermal photovoltaic (TPV) devices made from these materials can absorb the entire spectrum of light, heating up to 1,500 degrees Celsius, a temperature that traditional TPV materials cannot withstand, at least not without reduced performance. A startup at Purdue that Boltasseva consults is working on building a system that uses both solar energy, as well as harnesses waste energy.
Sustainability, in terms of green energy production and improving the availability of clean water, is other areas that Boltasseva says her lab’s materials could be used for in the future, even though it is not her domain of expertise. But essentially, the titanium compounds (which are technically kinds of ceramic) can be used to split water to produce hydrogen, which can be used as a green fuel. On burning, it produces energy and clean water, thereby killing the two metaphorical birds with one ceramic stone.
A drill bit coated with titnium nitride. The compound is a tough ceramic but has a gold-like metallic appearance. Photo: Robert Hewitt/Wikimedia Commons
On a somewhat less scientific note, Boltasseva hopes materials like titanium nitride or zirconium nitride (they resemble gold in appearance) will actually come one day to replace traditional metals used to make jewelry, especially since gold and silver are not just expensive, but are also often sourced from regions that are rife with conflict. However, these nitrides are really hard and there still need to be methods that can make them readily available to people to work with outside laboratories.
As a piece of additional trivia, Geim — one of the Nobel winners for his work on graphene — is so far the only person to have won both the prestigious science award as well as its parody equivalent, the Ig Nobel Prize, which he was given in 2000 for levitating a small frog with magnets, using the magnetic properties of water scaling. Geim and Novoselov are both graduates from the Moscow Institute of Physics and Technology, as is Boltasseva.
Daily fantasy sports betting sites DraftKings and FanDuel will not merge, according to ESPN Thursday. The companies announced plans to merge in November.
As the two largest companies in the field, the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) filed an antitrust lawsuit to block the move over monopoly concerns last month. The attorneys general of California and Washington D.C. also moved to block the merger.
READ: FTC: Amazon Refunding $70M Of Unauthorized In-App Purchases Made By Children
“FanDuel decided to merge with DraftKings last November, because we believed that this deal would have increased investment in growth and product development thereby benefiting consumers and the greater sports entertainment industry,” FanDuel CEO Nigel Eccles said in a statement. “While our opinion has not changed, we have determined that it is in the best interest of our shareholders, customers, employees, and partners to terminate the merger agreement and move forward as an independent company,”
He added, “There is still enormous, untapped market opportunity for FanDuel, and we will continue to execute our strategy to grow our business and further expand the fantasy sports industry.”
ESPN quoted a source who was not surprised by the abrupt announcement, saying that the reason the companies called off the merger was that they would rather save the money it would have cost to fight the FTC litigation. The murkiness of whether daily fantasy is gambling or not has put it in a precarious legal situation and some states have outlawed it. 
READ: DraftKings-FanDuel Merger: FTC To Block Combination Of Largest Daily Fantasy Sports Sites
DraftKings CEO Jason Robins appeared to put an optimistic spin on the move in his own statement on the decision.
“Over the past few years, DraftKings has become the world’s leading fantasy sports company,” he said. “We are recognized as a global sports entertainment brand and the industry leader in utilizing technology to bring our customers the best fantasy contests and products. We have a growing customer base of nearly 8 million, our revenue is growing over 30% year-over-year, and we are only just beginning to take our product overseas to the billions of international sports fans we have yet to even reach.”
Robbins added, “Consequently, we believe it is in the best interests of our customers, employees, and investors to terminate our agreement to merge with FanDuel and move forward as a separate company.”
China is North Korea’s largest trading partner, but the cash-strapped nation started exploring other ways to infuse much-needed money into its system. Even the most closed off nation in the world is subject to the forces of globalization, and according to the New York Times Tuesday, North Korea has been exporting labor to Russia. The money the workers make goes back to the country that now has intercontinental ballistic missile capabilities (ICBM). Often the laborers work in terrible conditions.
A State Department report from June called the conditions for North Korean workers “indicative of forced labor.”
READ: North Korea's Kim Jong Un Celebrates Missile Launch With Banquet
“(There are conditions such) as working excessively long hours in hazardous temperatures with restricted pay, for up to three years at a time. North Korean government 'minders' restrict and monitor their movement and communications. North Koreans sent overseas do not have a choice in the work the government ultimately assigns them and are not free to change jobs,” read the report. “Other reports note these laborers work on average between 12 and 16 hours a day, and sometimes up to 20 hours per day, and are allowed only one or two rest days per month.”
Laborers are often sent to China as well. The money they make is mostly appropriated and sent back to the government, workers only get to keep a small fraction of it. Sometimes the worker’s portion of the money is held until they return to North Korea.
Workers are often threatened with harm against them or their families back home in order to keep them from escaping or complaining to outside parties.
The Data Base Center for North Korean Human Rights put out a report last year estimating that between 30 and 80 percent of wages are confiscated by the North Korean government, depending on the industry in which the laborer works. It also estimates that there are around 50,000 North Korean laborers in Russia, though the Times said other reports estimate between 30,000 and 40,000. The workers are forced to live together in cramped dormitory-style residences and prevented from speaking to Russians according to the Times.
Workers in Vladivostock, an east coast port in Russia, often find work as painters and decorators. Their job is less grueling than some workers forced into lumber or heavy construction jobs.
“They are fast, cheap and very reliable, much better than Russian workers,” said Yulia Kravchenko to the Times Tuesday about the painters. “They do nothing but work from morning until late at night.”
A Vladivostock home improvement site touts the cheap and efficient labor of North Koreans.
“Oddly enough, but (sic) the people are industrious and honest … They will perform quality work and at a reasonable price,” the website reads.
READ: Trump Slams North Korea Missile Launch During Poland Visit: ‘Something Will Have To Be Done About It’
North Korea’s ability to collect foreign income lately has been substantially hobbled by international sanctions and a year-long ban on China importing coal from North Korea that began in February. These actions were taken in response to North Korea’s repeated missile tests, the latest of which was a first for the nation, an ICBM launch.
President Donald Trump has been trying to lean on China to curb economic ties to North Korea as a way to force them to stop their development of missiles and nuclear weapons. The president may need to push Russia, another of North Korea’s largest trading partners, to do the same.
The debate over the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau’s newly-issued arbitration rule is frequently billed as a fight for consumer advocacy or against byzantine bureaucracy. But behind each side of the argument, groups with vested interests have spent millions on lobbying related to the regulation or on bankrolling the campaigns of those with the power to kill it.
On Monday, the CFPB announced its new rule banning fine-print contractual clauses that bar buyers of financial products from filing class-action lawsuits, instead requiring them to use arbitration after they sign up for new bank accounts and credit cards.
Read: Citigroup, Wells Fargo, Bank Of America Pose Higher Systemic Risk To Global Financial Market, Oversight Group Says
Days earlier, Rep. Jeb Hensarling (R-Tex.), the chair of the House Financial Services Committee, reportedly lobbed another in a series of threats to hold CFPB Director Richard Cordray in contempt, this time for the bureau's intent to implement the rule without responding to a committee subpoena of documents related to the regulation. Regardless of Hensarling's move, the rule may not be around for long. By Tuesday morning, Sen. Tom Cotton (R-Ark.) triggered a process for its repeal via the Congressional Review Act, which allows the House and Senate to, with the president's signature, jointly throw out any regulation within 60 days of its implementation and prohibit its renewal by a simple majority vote.

In adopting the new regulation, the CFPB followed the example of the self-regulatory Wall Street organization known as the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, or FINRA, which has long banned brokerages from including arbitration clauses in their contracts with investors. Late in 2015, the CFPB began to consider following suit with a proposal to apply the same protections to consumers taking out loans and credit cards. Earlier that year, it commissioned a report on the outcomes of both arbitrations and class action suits when companies selling financial products are accused of wronging their customers.
Proponents of arbitration clauses often point to that same report as an argument for keeping arbitration in place, calculating that the average payment to the 15 percent of consumers who won payments in settlements, per the CFPB report, received an average of $32.35 and waited as long as two years for the process to wrap up. Consumers engaging in arbitration, they contend, receive thousands more. Attorneys for participants in class actions, they note, can make much, much more.
“In the class-action scheme, the consumers are just an afterthought. The trial lawyers are trying to get as much as they can,” said Joseph Rubin, senior counsel at the law firm Arnall Golden Gregory LLP, who specializes in public policy. “Maybe I’m biased, but I do think it is cynical and self-serving on the part of the class-action attorneys to claim that this is a consumer issue.”
Outside of the courtroom, those attorneys — or, at least, a trade group representing them in Washington — certainly have skin in the game.
The American Association for Justice, a trial lawyer trade group, spent millions of dollars both directly and through other lobbying firms on efforts to sway lawmaking related in part to the CFPB rule on arbitration over the past several years. In the last three months of 2016, for example, it spent $1.15 million on direct efforts that included “lobbying with regard to the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau rulemaking on forced arbitration,” according to a federal lobbying form. For the third quarter of 2016, that same text was listed on another federal lobbying form documenting $1.75 million in expenditures by the group. Through the lobbyist NVG LLC, the association spent $60,000 in part on “CFPB arbitration rulemaking” in the fourth quarter of last year, through the firm Forscey PLLC, it spent $50,000 in part on “work to establish Federal limits on pre-dispute arbitration agreements ” over the same period.
The attorney group also gave more than $1.82 million in campaign funding to Democrats, compared to $67,500 it allotted for Republicans, during the 2016 campaign cycle, according to OpenSecrets. 
Class-action lawyers aside, Rubin noted, the clauses prevent one party from choosing the avenue of litigation after the problem has arisen — potentially handing one side of the dispute an advantage. And while arbitration is often disparaged for keeping dispute resolutions quiet, he said, class-action settlements can end with the same level of secrecy. And the element of public shaming that often comes with a widely-publicized class-action suit isn’t necessarily the only reason for a company to change its practices.
“A business is going to decide to change its practices and products based on any number of reasons,” Rubin said. He added that consumers were “free to shop around” if they wanted to find products without contracts forcing them into arbitration if they felt they’d been wronged.
Critics of arbitration clauses, like Consumer Watchdog Executive Director Carmen Balber, however, note than the relatively small number of arbitration cases, let alone those that result in victories for consumers, makes looking at both means of dispute resolution akin to “an apples to oranges comparison,” as many potential class members would be too intimidated to go against a company on their own. The publicity of a class-action case, Balber added, can also be a catalyst of company-wide change.
“I don’t think you need to look any further than the Wells Fargo scandal,” she said, referring to the multiple investigations, lawsuits and fines related to the bank’s practice of opening false accounts and charging customers with the associated fees. As recently as Sunday, a California judge approved Wells Fargo’s agreement to pay $142 million to a class of customers whose credit scores were damaged by those fake accounts. The public shaming element, Balber said, was “always a factor” in these disputes, as often “with arbitration, even after the decision is reached, even when the company is found behind closed doors to be at fault, nothing changes.”
Read: How To Collect Refunds, Check Your Credit Score After Wells Fargo Fake Accounts Scam 
Wells Fargo isn’t among the firms that have lobbied on the issue of arbitration at the federal level, according to the Senate's lobbying database. But the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, business-focused lobbying group that doesn’t disclose its membership, spent $17.15 million on lobbying at least in part on the CFPB arbitration regulation in the first quarter of 2017, lobbying files show. In the final quarter of last year, it spent $18.59 million on lobbying efforts that involved the rule. 
Citigroup — which, like Wells Fargo and other megabanks like JPMorgan Chase, Bank of America and Goldman Sachs, is under CFPB supervision and would therefore be subject to the arbitration rule — spent $1.28 million in the first quarter of 2017 on lobbying efforts that included a meeting “with [the] House on arbitration.” The credit card issuer American Express, which is also under CFPB supervision, spent $400,000 in the first three months of this year on lobbying efforts involving “arbitration… related to the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau,” lobbying forms show.
Hensarling, who received tens of thousands of dollars in campaign funding from Wells Fargo, Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan Chase, Bank of America and other financial institutions, said in a statement that “the bureaucratic rule will harm American consumers but thrill class action attorneys.” Calling the regulation “anti-consumer,” he urged Congress to “thoroughly” repeal it using the Congressional Review Act.
Meanwhile, Balber, of Consumer Watchdog, made clear who’d be thrilled in the event that Congress repealed the rule.
“It’s no question,” she said, “that the banks’ application of their extreme arbitration rules have protected them from accountability for many, many years.”
This article was originally published on the Motley Fool.
The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries  (OPEC) plays a vital role in the global energy markets. The 13-member cartel includes most of the key nations of the Persian Gulf region, including Saudi Arabia, Iran, and Iraq, as well as five African countries and two in the northern portion of South America. Given the diversity of representation within OPEC, it can be difficult for the cartel to speak with one voice. OPEC does have a stated philosophy about how it thinks about oil prices, and past actions such as the oil embargo of the 1970s give the cartel a historical basis on which it often bases future decisions.
• Motley Fool Issues Rare Triple-Buy Alert
Brent crude oil prices since 1980. Photo: The Motley Fool
OPEC's history of managing the oil market
OPEC's mission statement makes it clear that the cartel intends to play an active role in the oil markets. OPEC's goal is "to coordinate and unify the petroleum policies of its member countries and ensure the stabilization of oil markets in order to secure an efficient, economic, and regular supply of petroleum to consumers, a steady income to producers, and a fair return on capital for those investing in the petroleum industry." Stemming from the roots of many of its member countries as colonies of Western powers such as the U.K., France, Portugal, and Spain, OPEC emphasizes the "inalienable right of all countries to exercise permanent sovereignty over their natural resources."
OPEC's first aggressive action took place in the 1970s. Arab countries led an oil embargo in 1973 that had a major upward impact on the price of crude in the global markets, and the outbreak of the Iranian Revolution in 1979 also led to market concerns about crude supplies that led to higher prices. After having traded for less than $10 per barrel throughout most of the 20th century, crude oil surged to as much as $40 per barrel by 1980.
• This Stock Could Be Like Buying Amazon in 1997
In the 1980s, oil prices fell from their peaks as conservation efforts took hold to reduce demand. OPEC responded with a group production ceiling that was allocated among member countries, and it also sought to coordinate with non-OPEC nations to try to impose greater stability on the energy market. The 1990s didn't see major price rebounds, in part because OPEC action mitigated what could have been a much larger impact from the First Gulf War early in the decade.
OPEC's mixed success of market control
OPEC responded to consistent weakness in oil prices by establishing price bands to target for global markets. The idea was that OPEC would remain firm with its policies as long as crude-oil prices stayed within the range, but would take action to boost or reduce production if prices fell or rose beyond the range's limits. However, the price-band practice went away in the mid-2000s, when the rise of the Chinese economy led to massive price increases as new demand for energy rattled the energy markets.
Even OPEC's production targets haven't always worked. Although the cartel has stated target levels, actual production routinely exceeds those levels, indicating that some countries aren't happy with their allocations under the targeting process.
What OPEC thinks now
Late last year, OPEC approved a long-term strategy that called for limiting supply to boost prices. The move was controversial even among member nations, with big producers such as Saudi Arabia having initially argued that supporting prices would backfire by allowing higher-cost producers to be profitable. The resulting release of supply could bring a repeat of the price plunge in 2015 and early 2016, when oil prices dropped below $30 per barrel.
One key question facing OPEC is how non-member nations will respond. Oil experts anticipate higher production from the U.S., Canada, and Brazil, and Russia also holds plenty of cards in determining the future direction of oil prices. If shale plays remain economically viable, then OPEC needs to anticipate substantial production that's out of its control, and that could make it difficult for the cartel to achieve its strategic goals over the long run.
Most analysts see OPEC walking a fine line between supporting oil prices while not allowing them to explode higher. By doing so, the cartel hopes that producers beyond its control won't count on a big boom in making decisions to expand production capacity, while still giving its member countries enough cash flow to remain financially healthy.
• 7 of 8 People Are Clueless About This Trillion-Dollar Market
OPEC has a large impact on the crude-oil market, and it will continue to wield influence over the energy sector for the foreseeable future. OPEC's control isn't complete, but energy investors still have to pay close attention to the cartel's actions in considering how to position themselves for the future of the energy industry.
The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
An attendant aboard Delta Air Lines Flight 129 from Seattle to Beijing resorted to smashing a large bottle of red wine over a passenger’s head after the man became violent during the flight. The passenger, Joseph Daniel Hudek IV, was arrested Thursday after allegedly attempting to open an exit door about an hour into the flight. The plane was forced to Seattle-Tacoma International Airport as a result.
The  New York Times reported Saturday that 23-year-old Hudek, who was seated in first class, made his way to the lavatory before the incident. According to a criminal complaint filed Friday and reported by the Times, the man exited the lavatory and asked a flight attendant a question before re-entering the bathroom. When he exited again, he reportedly “lunged toward the forward right exit door of the aircraft, grabbed the handle and attempted to open it.”
Read:   Delta Air Lines Breaks Silence After Kicking Family With Babies Off Flight
A physical altercation ensued between Hudek and two flight attendants, one of whom he punched in the face at least two times. Another passenger became involved, at which time Hudek grabbed a bottle of red dessert wine and hit the other passenger in the face.
UPDATE: Man charged with interfering with crew on Seattle-to-Beijing flight. Photo shows Delta cabin after brawl.  https://t.co/Rg4kAzag5v pic.twitter.com/l5YEbo7caR
&mdash; The Seattle Times (@seattletimes) July 8, 2017

As Hudek continued his attempts to open the cabin door, one flight attendant hit Hudek with two bottles of red wine, breaking one of them over his head. Hudek was eventually able to be restrained with zip ties after further help from other passengers.
According to the complaint obtained by the Times, Hudek did not appear “impacted” after the attendant struck him with the wine bottle and yelled, “‘Do you know who I am?’ or something to that extent.”
CBS News reported Saturday that Hudek was flying with a “dependent pass” that he was able to secure because his mother is an employee of the carrier.
Read:  JetBlue Flight Makes Emergency Landing After Laptop Battery Catches Fire
Delta Air Lines confirmed the incident in a Monday statement to International Business Times.
“Flight 129 returned to Seattle following a security incident with a passenger,” said the airline. “The passenger was restrained onboard and was removed from the flight by law enforcement without further incident when the aircraft arrived back in Seattle.”
The crew and passengers deplaned, but the airline told IBT that “the flight re-departed for Beijing later Thursday evening.”
A passenger and flight attendant were transported to a hospital with non-life-threatening but severe facial injuries, CBS News reported. The Times reported that Delta Air Lines’ chief operating officer, Gil West, commended the crew “for their fast action in keeping our customers and each other safe in a potentially dangerous situation.”
Quora noted in a piece on whether it's possible to open a carrier door mid-flight that it is an essentially impossible feat for the average person. The average exit hatch reportedly has “about 3 to 4 tons of pressure holding it in place” at cruise altitude. However a flight attendant involved in Thursday's incident said that if the altercation had occurred at a lower altitude, the door might have opened.
Hudek was charged with interfering with a flight crew. He faces up to 20 years in prison and a fine of $250,000. He will reportedly remain in police custody until his July 13 detention hearing.
A Delta employee broke a wine bottle over a passenger's head after the man attempted to open the cabin door during the flight. In this photo, Delta Airlines planes sit at Terminal 4 at John F. Kennedy Airport July 22, 2014 in New York City. The Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) has halted all flights from the U.S. to Tel Aviv, Israel following a rocket attack near Ben Gurion International Airport. Photo: Photo by Eric Thayer/Getty Images
Numerai is a hedge fund that's using technology to create an unprecedented network effect, and transform the way money is managed.
Crowdsourced investment strategies are many and varied, but Numerai crowdsources machine intelligence in a totally unique way by supplying its network of data scientists with encrypted data on which to test their machine learning models, thus removing any bias attached to the application of the algorithms.
These models are entered into a monthly tournament and the best ones receive a pay-out. This was previously done using Bitcoin (because it was efficient and more anonymous than PayPal), but more recently Numerai launched its own token, Numeraire (NMR), on Ethereum, the public blockchain which has spawned a multitude of trustless, decentralized applications.
The aim of the token was to create more value for Numerai's growing network of scientists, and further align them with the collaborative goals of the project. NMR tokens were not sold like a typical initial coin offering, but rather 1.2 million of the tokens (a cap of 21m has been stated) were distributed via smart contracts on Ethereum, only to participating data scientists.
On the eve of the token distribution, Numerai founder and CEO Richard Craib took a sober view of the token issuance – certainly too sober for the hysterical world of Ethereum-backed tokens. He said at the time he hoped NMR would be "priced rationally", and also highlighted the need to ensure the smart contract code on Ethereum was robust, adding that someone who helped discover the DAO exploit had been auditing the NMR contract.
"Even if the contract is correct, you could also mess up the incentives and then suddenly Numeraire becomes a speculative instrument that actually hurts the system," said Craib. "So you have to be very careful with your system design. I think it's quite good for the users to have liquidity and for it to be priced and tradable, but I hope it's priced rationally."
A couple of days after the NMR were distributed the price of the tokens rocketed to $168 and the market cap crossed $200m. Around 60,000 NMR are paid out in each tournament, which meant the monthly payout reached almost $10m – or the equivalent of 10 Netflix Prizes, making Numerai by far the highest paid data science competition the world has ever seen.
All this value pumped into the tokens at once presented a number of immediate risks to the ecosystem, offering a huge bounty to hackers and threatening its carefully aligned goals; a worry aired on discussion forums was that speculation around the coins could ultimately detract from their primary function - to get create good models and garner network effect.
Numerai rightly intervened and reduced its NMR payouts by 90% to 1510 per week, while increasing staking payouts threefold to $3,000 per week. NMR tokens have now cooled and stabilized at around $40.
Craib says he was not expecting Numeraire to be traded on secondary markets to the extent that they were. But since the tokens belong to the data scientists and are on the blockchain they can do anything with them, he said. "Speculation doesn't hurt the use of Numeraire, which is to stake. Our data scientists earning more money is also clearly a good thing. Some have quit their jobs or are working with speculators to stake their models.
Newsweek is hosting a Structure Security event Sept. 26-27 in San Francisco.  Photo: Newsweek Media Group
"More prizes mean more incentives to create duplicate accounts etc. We have solved a lot of this in the last few days."
With benefit of hindsight, would he have done anything differently regarding the issuance and distribution of Numeraire?
"Not at all," said Craib. "It was extraordinarily successful beyond anything we could have hoped. I am very happy with our approach of giving it away to our core community rather than selling it in an ICO."
Aside from the NMR token, Craib elaborated on some of the other unique points the distinguish Numerai, such as the problems it solves with encryption.
"All the algorithms are trained on encrypted data which makes it very difficult to cheat or create models that look good but aren't actually good. A lot of the quant crowdsourcing has this problem of models that don't quite work very well because they just overfit. Because they can see the data, they can cheat; they can put in their biases.
"But on Numerai it's so abstract that you really have to have a good model to do well. And that's why we are not crowdsourcing quants at all; we are crowdsourcing machine intelligence."
A common approach to verify accuracy in machine learning is to break the dataset into train and test sets. A trained model can be tested for accuracy on the test set, which it has never seen. However, to maintain statistical validity, this test set should only be used once. When a data scientist accesses the test set multiple times and uses that score as feedback for model selection, there's a risk of training a model that overfits the test set. This hurts the model's ability to perform well on new data.
Neural cryptography
This problem is removed when you don't know what you're modelling. Ordinarily encrypted data becomes useless to a data scientist, but new developments such as neural cryptography, dedicated to the application of artificial neural network algorithms allows Numerai to share datasets securely while preserving their structure. Because the raw data remains obfuscated, it's impossible to take that data and use it yourself.
Asked about the characteristics of Numerai's 20,000 or so participants, Craib said: "You really have to know about machine learning. If you know something about finance, it doesn't help you at all, because it's all abstract.
"But we do have certain people from hedge funds who joined, and we can see by their email addresses. And every now and again you see something like @ stanford.edu .
"It's very global - huge in Russia, also in India, and lots of young people. But very few girls actually; only about 3% I think."
Numerai will be joining an innovation panel at Newsweek's forthcoming AI and Data Science in Capital Markets event in New York City.
The Enigma Catalyst white paper describes itself as an off-chain decentralized exchange protocol coupled with the first investment platform focused on enabling developers to build, test and execute micro crypto-funds.
Developed by the Enigma team at MIT, Catalyst aims to be the "glue" between cryptocurrency exchanges, while also extending open source algorithmic trading tools like Quantopian and Zipline for use in the cryptocurrencies ecosystem. These sorts of platforms and modules allow users to select from a leaderboard of trading algorithms and import already curated and formatted data, without having to do all the coding for the statistics of the strategy.
Catalyst sees a gap for algorithmic trading on crypto-assets without a custodian. There's lots happening in the trading space, with the likes of ICONOMI offering a centralized cryptoinvestment platform; or Prism, backed by Shapeshift, which operates using a semi-centralized model. Meanwhile, decentralized on-chain investment solutions such as 0x, Melonport and Bancor may face a performance issue, and currently only support Ethereum ERC20 compatible tokens.
Catalyst proposes to circumvent the on-chain performance issue by routing orders through off-chain payment channels and using hashed timelock contracts (HTLCs), the same vein as the Lightning or proposed Raiden networks.
This design allows users to make fast, cross-chain transfers while maintaining full custody of their assets. Order books are maintained by a permission less network of liquidity providers, each of which spans multiple, individual payment networks. To begin trading, users open payment channels with a chosen liquidity provider, in the currencies they wish to trade. Orders are then submitted to the liquidity provider that a trader chooses, and matched with an online counterparty.
Guy Zyskind, co-founder of Enigma and Catalyst, said that when family and friends would ask him for tips on how to invest their money in crypto-markets, he realized the barriers to entry were very high. In order to do algorithmic trading today in crypto markets, as opposed to stock markets, you have to work as an engineer, curate data sets and build testing tools.
Newsweek is hosting a Structure Security event Sept. 26-27 in San Francisco.  Photo: Newsweek Media Group
He said: "Catalyst is basically going to be a one-stop shop for developers and quants where they can, in just a few minutes, consume data that we in the community will provide around crypto markets. They can then use that to build trading strategies and test them in simulated way, so you don't risk any money. Then start actual live trading."
Any data-driven system is only as strong as the input data it receives, and Catalyst aims to provide the sort of big data required for modern artificial intelligence and machine learning tasks. The type of data suggested include historical time series market data, initial coin offering data and sentiment data from news, social media subreddits and crypto forums.
The platform will incentivize users to crawl and curate useful datasets that can be used by the community as it evolves. Incentivization would be directed by the market: those datasets that are accessed more frequently would result in more incentives than those that are not as popular.
Zyskind said: "I think one of the biggest things in the platform that we are building is a data market place. We came up with a few datasets that we think are going to be interesting that we are going to curate – one of them was blockchain data, so all the metrics for Ethereum, Bitcoin and all the others. Developers will start curating datasets and putting them on our platform for others to use and then the sky is the limit."
In addition, a web-based leaderboard ranking of all strategies deployed by developers will include standard return and risk metrics, such as ROI, Sharpe ratio, alpha and beta and max drawdown. To prevent short-lived strategies from being over-represented, Catalyst will favor strategies that have been robust in different market conditions and have built a longer track record over time.
"The leaderboard will make it easy for people to invest in the highest performing strategies. The quants behind these algorithms will be able to set the management and performance fees themselves, creating a truly open-market."
This article was originally published on the Motley Fool.
We all know we're supposed to show up to work on time, respect our managers, and meet deadlines as assigned. But here are a few things not to do if you want to succeed on the job.
1. Complain too much
It's one thing to occasionally express your displeasure with the way work situations are being handled, but if you get into a routine where you're griping to your coworkers on a consistent basis, you'd better change your ways. First of all, nobody likes a complainer, but more so than that, the more you moan about the office, the greater your chances of saying something out loud that could get you into trouble. If you're having difficulty coping with your workload or dealing with a troublesome colleague, talk it out with your partner, buddy, or therapist and keep your cool while you're on the job.
• Motley Fool Issues Rare Triple-Buy Alert
2. Volunteer all the time
Going above and beyond the regular call of duty is a good way to get in your manager's good graces, and possibly even advance your career. But one thing you shouldn't do is be that person who's constantly volunteering to take on more work or pick up other people's slack. Not only will you risk having others take advantage, but you'll potentially spread yourself too thin, at which point your overall performance might suffer.
3. Dress inappropriately
Many offices these days are adopting a casual dress code, and while that might be good for your comfort and wallet, it also opens the door to poor decisions. No matter how laid-back your office environment might seem, don't make the mistake of wearing clothing that's too revealing, ripped, or just plain unlaundered. Along these lines, avoid t-shirts with potentially offensive language or slogans. You have plenty of opportunity to express yourself outside the office, and while it's one thing to swap your dress slacks for jeans, it's another to sport an outfit that blatantly exposes your midriff.
4. Talk politics
Most office environments lend themselves to non-work-related conversations from time to time. But while it's OK to rehash your weekend plans or engage in some mild sports-related trash talk, bringing politics into the workplace is generally a bad idea (especially today). Not only are politics a personal matter, but discussions around them tend to get heated, and the last thing you want is to create an atmosphere of bad blood because you and a coworker don't see eye to eye.
• This Stock Could Be Like Buying Amazon in 1997
5. Spread rumors
Nobody likes a gossip, but that's not the only reason to avoid spreading rumors or badmouthing your coworkers, even if justifiably. Under the wrong circumstances, you could end up with a serious HR violation on your hands. If you really need to get your gossip on or blow off steam, find a friend with an open ear and have those conversations outside the office.
6. Spend too much time on personal calls, social media, or anything else that isn't work-related
Even if you work in a busy, bustling office, there's a good chance someone is keeping track of your work habits. It might be your manager or a coworker with a chip on his shoulder, but that person is bound to notice if you're spending hours browsing on social media or chatting away on the phone. Furthermore, you never know what data your company might be tracking, so if you're using its network or internet, be wary of patterns that could get you into trouble.
7. Come in contagious
Many companies don't distinguish between vacation and sick days, which means that if you're under the weather, you might be tempted to drag yourself into the office and reserve your time off for something fun. But while it's OK to come in with a moderate case of the sniffles, if you're running a fever, coughing up a lung, or experiencing any sort of serious digestive upheaval, you'll be doing your coworkers a favor by just staying home. If anything, explain to your boss that you're well enough to work but are carrying germs, and you might get permission to do your job from home that day.
8. Steal your coworkers' food
This one should really go without saying, but of all the workplace sins to commit, there's perhaps none more egregious than busting into the communal fridge when no one's looking and helping yourself to a meal that isn't yours. Desperate times might call for desperate measures, but if you're too swamped to grab a sandwich from the corner deli, beg a coworker to do it for you and keep your hands off other people's grub.
• 7 of 8 People Are Clueless About This Trillion-Dollar Market
Even if you're an otherwise star employee, these eight habits could get you in trouble at work. If you're serious about succeeding on the job, make sure to avoid these mistakes at all costs going forward.
The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
This article was originally published on the Motley Fool.
Money isn't the only thing to look for in a job. There are other key things to consider, probably most important of which is to do what you enjoy.
• Motley  Fool  Issues Rare Triple-Buy Alert
That being said, money is certainly a factor that most people think about when considering their career choices. Which jobs are at the top of the ladder when it comes to salary? Here are the top 10 highest-paying jobs in America according to the U.S. Department of Labor's Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS).
10. Architectural and engineering managers
Architectural and engineering managers in the U.S. make $143,870 on average. Individuals in the top 25% of earners in the profession, though, typically have average salaries of $167,290. If you're looking for the state where you can make the most money in this occupation, remember the Alamo. Texas claims the highest average salary for architectural and engineering managers at $167,230. 
9. Podiatrists
The next highest-paying job in the U.S. belongs to podiatrists, with an average annual salary of $144,110. The top 25% of earners make $182,420 per year on average. Where do podiatrists make the highest pay? Say "aloha": Podiatrists in Hawaii pull in an average annual salary of $273,040.
8. Marketing managers
The average salary for marketing managers in America is $144,140. Marketing managers in the top 25%, though, make $178,690 on average. New York is where to go for the highest pay for marketing managers, with an average salary level of $188,640.
7. Computer and information systems managers
You probably expected a tech job somewhere in the top 10. Sure enough, computer and information systems managers are ranked No. 7 among the highest-paying jobs in the country, with an average salary of $145,740. Those in the top 25% of all earners pull in $170,670 on average. New York again is the place for the best pay, with computer and information systems managers making an average annual salary of $175,530.
6. Petroleum engineers
Another tech jobs claims the sixth-highest average salary in the land. Petroleum engineers make $147,030 on average. Individuals in the top 25% of all earners in this profession pull in an average of $179,450 per year. You might suspect that Texas has the highest average salaries for petroleum engineers, but actually Colorado claims that distinction, with an average annual salary of $161,200.
• This Stock Could Be Like Buying Amazon in 1997
5. Aircraft pilots, copilots, and flight engineers
One high-flying job also commands a high-flying salary. The average annual salary for aircraft pilots, copilots, and flight engineers in the U.S. stands at $152,770. Those in the top 25% make $195,550 on average. Colorado claims the top spot for pay for these jobs with an average salary of $207,680.
4. Nurse anesthetists
The paychecks for nurse anesthetists won't make anyone sleepy. Nurse anesthetists make $164,030 per year on average. Individuals in the top quarter of earners in this job make an average annual salary of $189,880. Nurse anesthetists in Montana boast the highest pay, with an average salary of $242,140 per year.
3. Chief executives
Many look to chief executive officers (CEOs) of companies for their leadership lessons and even time management skills. You can also look to CEOs for big paychecks. CEOs pull in an average annual salary of $194,350. Because CEOs can work for organizations of dramatically different sizes, the pay scale varies quite a bit. The BLS doesn't provide details on how much CEOs in the top 25% make, other than stating that their average annual salary tops $208,000. South Dakota boasts the highest average yearly pay for CEOs of $242,220. 
2. Dentists
There's a lot of money where your mouth is. Dentists claim average annual salaries of $171,900 on the low end to $228,780 for orthodontists and $232,870 for oral and maxillofacial surgeons. As is the case with CEOs, the BLS only says that the top 25% of dentists make above $208,000 per year on average. The best state for general dentists is Texas, with an average annual salary of $171,850. Orthodontists might prefer sweet home Alabama, with a top average annual salary of $287,250. Oral and maxillofacial surgeons make the most money in Colorado, Kentucky, Massachusetts, New Jersey, and Virginia -- all of which claim average annual salaries for the profession of at least $256,590.
• 7 of 8 People Are Clueless About This Trillion-Dollar Market
1. Physicians and surgeons
Physicians and surgeons have the highest average salaries of all. Anesthesiologists make the most, with an average annual salary of $269,600. At the low end of the range, pediatricians claim an average annual salary of $184,240. As you might expect, the top 25% of physicians and surgeons make much more  -- the BLS simply states their average salary exceeds $208,000 per year. Pediatricians in Mississippi have the biggest paychecks, with an average annual salary of $270,430. Anesthesiologists can go to one of several states that claim average annual salaries of $274,210 or more, including California, Florida, and Louisiana.
The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
Over the decades, people have been taken on a sexual liberation tour that has challenged sexual norms. During the 1970s and 1980s, pop bands such as Queen tantalised audiences by singing “I am like a sex machine ready to reload/ Like an atom bomb about to oh oh oh oh oh explode,” and manufacturers of everything from cars to cigarettes featured pretty women in their advertising, hoping to boost sales. More recently, we have seen Marks & Spencer create saucy adverts for its food, a style dubbed “food porn”. It would be easy to think that sex is the key to selling almost anything.
In the past, it has been claimed that sexually-laden advertisements grab consumers’ attention, enhance memory of the brand, establish positive attitudes, and increase the likelihood of purchase. But sexually-themed adverts don’t attract as much attention as they used to – indeed, it’s been a while since we’ve heard of drivers becoming distracted by roadside billboards of women in underwear. So does sex still sell? According to a recent study, it appears not.
Published in the International Journal of Advertising, a new analysis that compared the results of 78 research studies between 1969 and 2017 found that while people remember adverts with sexual appeal more than those without, the enhanced recollection does not extend to the product or brand that advert is selling. Not only that, but the sexual ads can have a negative impact on how a brand is perceived. While, overall, men view sexual imagery in advertising more favourably, and women view it more negatively, in neither case is there any evidence that the ads generate a greater chance of purchasing the product.
Conditioned to react
Some of the past success of using sexual imagery in advertising has been attributed to what psychologists call “classical conditioning”, a method that can, if used correctly, enhance attention and memory. Classical conditioning happens when the sexual arousal prompted by the advert is subconsciously transferred to the product or brand, leading to a feeling of arousal when exposed again to the product or brand, generating a “feel-good effect” for the product.
The problem is that if people are continuously faced with a large volume of sexual imagery, they eventually become desensitised to it and so no longer experience physiological arousal. This is what has happened as a barrage of sexually-charged advertisements have become a permanent feature of the advertising landscape. What started out as something novel – in step with the sexual liberation of the 1960s and 1970s – has now turned into something mundane and everyday, even frowned upon.
This is particularly true for charitable advertising. Numerous female celebrities have stripped for charities such as PETA, but it has been found that using sexualised imagery can be seen as dehumanising to women, leading to a subsequent decrease in support for the brands or companies in question. Interestingly, both men and women adopt negative views of ethical causes “exploiting” women in this way, as the audience ends up questioning the integrity of a charity which would seemingly benefit from taking advantage of women.
Seen it all before
As we now live in a world where sexual imagery can be found easily online, scantily-clad men and women in advertising are not going to capture the attention and generate the arousal they once did. Society has changed, and so has advertising. Overtly explicit sex adverts are no longer deemed fashionable. Consumers want advertising that feels up-to-date. There has been a big political shift that is altering peoples’ interest and focus, and a big part of this is the recent political upheaval in the US.
To capture consumers’ attention something less frivolous is needed, as people feel a need to right the wrongs in the world. Racism, sexism, and environmentally friendly products are examples of topics that consumers now zoom in on. For example, Kenco coffee has cleverly tapped into the newfound consumer interest in social politics, with adverts that suggest that drinking their coffee will rescue young men in Honduras from becoming gang members. This allows people to feel socially active while still indulging in consumerism. There are many examples of products and brands that are willing to use politically-based messages to further their image.
Consumers also want “experiences” as their expectations of what a product should do have increased considerably through the years. Of course, this is difficult to deliver through traditional advertising. This is why we have seen a shift in marketing towards more “hands on” communication, using in-store virtual reality, or smell and taste to evoke memories, as it is often more persuasive.
And with these shifts in audiences’ expectations, the sexually-based advertisements are on their way out. Sex is unlikely to ever go away, of course, but it is much less likely to be featured in mass media messaging once it no longer gels with the modern consumer.
Cathrine Jansson-Boyd, Reader in Consumer Psychology, Anglia Ruskin University
This article was originally published on The Conversation. Read the original article.
The Conversation's logo. Photo: The Conversation

Actor and startup founder Ashton Kutcher won the ire of many on social media this week after he announced plans to host a “live open dialog about gender equality in the work place [sic] and in tech in general.” But in sharing questions meant for initiating thoughtful dialogue during the Facebook event planned for next week, Kutcher left many scratching their heads as the proposed talking points appeared to perpetuate many misconceptions about working women — specifically women in tech.
Read: One Female Tech Entrepreneur Explains How She Is Making It In A White Man's World
The one-time “Just Married” heartthrob wrote Thursday on LinkedIn the event would be streamed live on his Facebook page on “Monday or Tuesday next week.” Kutcher added that he’d be hosting the event alongside Effie Epstein, his partner at Sound Ventures, a venture capital firm founded by Kutcher and Guy Oseary. The multihyphenate's proposed questions for the event are as follows (errors printed as they appeared):
Paradigm CEO Joelle Emerson screen grabbed the questions from Kutcher’s LinkedIn post and posted them to Twitter.
“Yikes. These are definitely *not* the right questions,” she  captioned the tweet to her 5,000 followers. “Most rely on flawed assumptions and perpetuate problematic myths.”
Yikes. These are definitely *not* the right questions. Most rely on flawed assumptions and perpetuate problematic myths. pic.twitter.com/vUF1CVBcOt
&mdash; Joelle Emerson (@joelle_emerson) July 7, 2017

One Twitter user responded to the tweet that the questions could be helpful to a “broad” audience, seemingly acknowledging that they were indeed problematic but writing that “some people still need to hear the answers.” But others weren’t so sure.
“Tech bros in general, and VC bros in particular, KNOW what is appropriate, there are just no consequences thus don't give a shit,” wrote one user.
Read: Women’s Representation In Tech Has Increased, But Growth Is Beginning To Slow
“This doesnt help anyone, least of all the women its intended to help,” another responded. “It just creates a completely skewed paradigm w/ the same issues.”
Emily Peck, a senior reporter at the Huffington Post, questioned whether the post could be fake, pointing to  Kutcher’s low follower count as evidence.
Joelle, are you sure this is his actual LinkedIn? He has so few followers!
&mdash; Emily Peck (@EmilyRPeck) July 7, 2017

For her part, Emerson went on to proposed ten of her own questions for the event.
“We know most companies wait far too long to consider creating inclusive cultures. How can startups design inclusive cultures early?” she proposed as one.
“We know bias and pattern-matching play a significant role in VC and tech company decision-making,” she proposed as another. “How can we make better [...] more fair, and more objective decisions across investing, hiring, distributing work, evaluating performance, promotions, comp, etc?”
Neither a representative for Kutcher nor Sound Ventures returned International Business Times’ request for comment regarding the backlash to the questions.
Ashton Kutcher came under fire this week after announcing the questions from his forthcoming "open dialogue" about gender inequality in the workplace. In this photo, Ashton Kutcher speaks onstage during The 23rd Annual Screen Actors Guild Awards at The Shrine Auditorium on January 29, 2017 in Los Angeles, California. Photo: Photo by Kevin Winter/Getty Images
The Koch Brothers are industrialists and political activists who, among other goals, want to rewrite the U.S. Constitution — and if money talks, the Founding Fathers better start listening.  Charles Koch and David Koch have a combined net worth of $96 billion, says Forbes — making them a richer entity than Bill Gates.
Koch Industries, based in Wichita, Kansas, was founded in 1940 by Fred Koch and partners. It began as a crude oil refinery and over the years, it turned into a private company involved in manufacturing, trading and investing that has some form of control over most business categories.
Read: Bill Gates Net Worth 2017: Forbes’ Billionaire List Recognizes Warren Buffett, Jeff Bezos, Amancio Ortega As World’s Richest
Fred Koch and Mary Robinson Koch had four sons: Frederick Koch, Charles Koch, David Koch and William Koch. Charles Koch became president of Koch Industries in 1968, following his father’s death the previous year. He and his brother David bought out their brothers, Frederick and William, for full control of the company in 1983.
Signs of the Koch Brothers held at a rally where protesters demand the LA Times not be sold to the Koch Brothers on May 23, 2013 in Beverly Hills, California. Photo: JOE KLAMAR/AFP/Getty Images
Forbes listed Koch Industries as America’s second largest private company in 2016. The company generated $100 billion that year, employing more than 100,000 people worldwide in over 50 countries. Each brother is worth $48 billion; their wealth combined is greater than that of Gates, the co-founder of Microsoft, whose net worth is $89.1 billion. To put that in perspective, Gates has been at the top of Forbes list of world billionaires for 18 out of the past 23 years.
Koch Industries has expanded by buying other companies to increase its revenue. The Koch brothers have acquired Invista, Georgia-Pacific, Flint Halls Resources, Koch Pipeline, Koch Fertilizer and Koch Minerals, among others. Koch has focused on owning companies focused in core industries like manufacturing, refining and distribution of petroleum and minerals. However, they also acquired companies like Brawny paper towels and Dixie cups. 
“At first glance, Koch companies may look curiously unrelated. After all, they stretch from the fibers of fashion to the rugged world of ranching,” the Koch Industries website reads. “When you look deeper, there’s a common thread that ties them together. It’s a desire to keep improving the products that meet your basic needs every single day.”
Over the years, the Koch brothers have involved themselves in politics, donating large amounts of money to conservative causes. David Koch ran as the Libertarian Party’s vice-presidential candidate in 1980, but since then, both brothers have supported mostly Republican candidates. Koch Industries has always placed emphasis on free market principles, and through donations and public support, the Koch brothers made their mark in American politics. Two of their political organizations, Americans for Prosperity and Freedom Partners, embody their goal— both organizations advocate for less government regulation and lower taxes.
They have vehemently opposed climate change legislation, donating money to support climate change skeptics. They expressed their dislike of then-presidential candidate Donald Trump during the 2016 election, comparing the choice between Trump and Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton to choosing between a heart attack or cancer.
Still, the brothers are backers of Vice President Mike Pence and now have allies throughout the White House and the Trump administration. 
Read: Do People Like Obamacare? Majority Of Americans Prefer ACA Over Trumpcare, Poll Indicates
Former Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid (D-Nevada) is no fan. 
“These two brothers are trying to buy America,” he said on the Senate floor in February 2014, responding to Koch-funded anti-Obamacare ads. “I don’t believe America is for sale.”
A Delta Air Lines flight had to make an emergency turn around soon after taking off from Seattle-Tacoma International Airport for its destination in Beijing on Thursday after a passenger attempted to breach the cockpit, two witnesses familiar with the incident told CNN.

The passenger taken into custody is said to be a 23-year-old man from Florida, according to the FBI.

The aircraft, Delta flight 129, a twin-aisle Boeing 767-300ER made a safe return to Seattle around 7:40 p.m. EDT on Thursday, while being air escorted by Department of Defense. Three people were injured during the incident on the flight, including one crew member and two passengers, the witnesses told CNN. The flight reportedly turned back while it was flying over the western coast of Canada.

Read: Delta Systems Outage: About 170 Domestic Flights Canceled, Airline Issues Apology
Delta Airlines released a statement saying: “Flight 129 returned to Seattle following a security incident with a passenger. The passenger was restrained onboard and was removed from the flight by law enforcement without further incident when the aircraft arrived back in Seattle. The flight is scheduled to re-depart for Beijing later this evening.”

At the same time, Delta Airlines, FBI and Port of Seattle Police said the incident onboard Delta flight 129 was not indicative of being a "national security threat."

This is not the first time Delta Airlines has experienced passenger-related issues though, having had a few this year alone.
In May, a Minnesota woman claimed the airline held her dog "hostage" at a Guatemalan airport for almost 33 hours and had demanded the owner pay $3,000 for the puppy to be returned. This was after the woman had paid the same amount to a private company called Pet Air Carrier to ship her German shepherd named Bunny, to Central America.
But when the woman's husband attempted to collect the puppy from the airport at La Aurora International in Guatemala City, Delta claimed they did not have the proper paperwork, according to Marketwatch.
Read: Delta Cancels $4B Order For 18 Boeing 787 Dreamliner Aircraft Inherited From Northwest
Another incident on April 18 aboard a Delta Airlines flight raised concerns when a man from Milwaukee, Wisconsin was forcibly removed from the aircraft as he wanted to urinate urgently. Other passengers recorded the video of the man's ordeal while he tried to explain the situation to the authorities and apologized to them.
Despite such incidents possibly raising question marks over Delta's operations, the airline does still enjoy a good reputation among its customers. 
In April, TripAdvisor released a list of the best airlines to fly in the world and its first Traveler's Choice Awards, in which the Top Major North American Airline position was awarded to Delta, while American and United Airlines did not even make the final list.
TripAdvisor created the list after carefully analyzing customer reviews and online feedback online all the major and mid-size airlines in the world. On the basis of customer service and several other factors, fifty airlines were recognized around the world.
“The airline industry is investing billions of dollars in new aircraft and service enhancements to differentiate the flying experience and these awards recognize the carriers offering the very best experiences and value to the traveling public,” Bryan Saltzburg, the senior vice president and general manager for TripAdvisor Flights, said in April, after they revealed the list.
An American Airlines passenger was removed from a Chicago-bound flight from Atlanta Wednesday after yelling at a flight attendant and letting her pet dog run loose in the cabin. A video was posted online showing the removal of the passenger. The disruption resulted in a four-hour delay. 
Michael Nash, a passenger on American Airlines flight 281, recorded the incident and posted it on his Facebook account. The disruption began after a flight attendant and another traveler clashed with a woman over her reclined seat during takeoff from Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport. The woman reportedly yelled profanities after she was asked to put the seat in upright position.
Read: American Airlines Flight From Los Angeles Diverts To Denver To Remove Unruly Passenger
"The lady was asked to pull up her seat for take off. An FAA rule," Nash wrote on Facebook. "Long story short, she flipped out and attacked the flight attendant!"
The alleged attack was not caught on camera, but Nash claimed the woman pushed the flight attendant during the altercation.  
"[The flight attendant] was shook up, but handled it greatly! It was just crazy!!" Nash said. 

In the video, the woman is heard accusing someone of throwing water at her. Passengers are also heard yelling at the woman to sit down as she follows a flight attendant to the back of the plane with her dog by her side. The woman's small dog got startled by the commotion, and started running under the passengers seat. 
American Airlines allows small pets to travel in the cabin on certain flights, but according to the police, the animals must remain in their carriers for the entire flight. American Airlines is yet to comment on the incident.
"When I first saw the dog, I was like 'Where the hell did that dog come from?'" Nash wrote online. "Turns out it was loose under her chair. So when she attacked the flight attendant, the dog got scared and ran."
Following the altercation, the flight taxied back to the terminal. In another video, the woman was seen being escorted off the plane. She wasn't arrested and was rebooked on another flight, an Atlanta airport representative told CBS-affiliate WBBM-TV.
This is not the first incident of an unruly passenger on board an American Airlines plane. In June, a Boston-bound American Airlines plane flying from Los Angeles was diverted to Denver International Airport after a passenger caused disruption.
Read: American Airlines Allegedly Sends Black Woman To Back Of Plane Despite First Class Ticket
While there were no confirmed details about why the passenger was taken off the flight and arrested, one woman said she suspected his behavior was irregular due to drinking, while another man said that he was "trying to get to the restroom." Another passenger Bita Beck said he was "being very aggressive with the stewardess."   
Daria Serna, a spokeswoman for the Denver airport told a local paper, the Denver Post, "The plane did land safely and depart safely." The man was being "disruptive," she said. 
In May, an American Airlines flight to Honolulu airport, Hawaii from Los Angeles was excorted by two U.S. military jets after a Turkish man caused disturbance by trying to breach the cockpit of the flight. The man was duct-taped to his seat until the plane safely landed in Honolulu and the FBI boarded the aircraft to arrest him.
Hundreds of visitors flocked to Trump Taj Mahal in Atlantic City, New Jersey, on Thursday for the liquidation sale of the casino and hotel once owned by President Donald Trump.
The National Content Liquidation (NCL), a property and hotel liquidation company, organized a sale of all the items at Trump Taj Mahal Hotel, which has 1, 200 guestrooms and suites. The sale is open from 10 a.m. EDT to 7 p.m. EDT on weekdays and 12 p.m. EDT to 5 p.m. EDT on Sundays. The company said the sale would be on until all the items are sold. The NCL also stated on its website all the items were tagged, priced, and sold on a first-come basis.
Read: Trump’s Businesses Have A History Of Money Laundering Charges
Popular items at the sale include king and queen size beds, coffee tables, end tables, sofa sets, chandeliers, lamps, daybeds, artworks, mirrors, TV sets and much more. However, the NCL removed all items from the casino that had "Trump" written on it, the Associated Press (AP) reported.
“I would have liked to get a roulette table or a blackjack table with the name 'Trump' on it,” Dr. Jason Bourne from Bethesda, Maryland, said.
Gerald Winchester of Atlantic City, who was among the first few people to arrive for the sale, bought a flat-screen video monitor for $50. "I have no use for chandeliers, but I can use a nice TV for my bedroom," Winchester said, adding he often stayed at the Taj Mahal hotel and the furniture in the hotel seemed familiar to him,  U.S. News reported. “I've been in so many rooms at this place that I probably already watched this TV," he said.
The hotel’s three largest chandeliers placed above the main escalators which were originally bought for $250, 000 each, were now offered for $35,000 each. The seven small chandeliers placed in the lobby were priced at $7,500 each.
Don Hayes of National Content Liquidators said: “We actually have somebody from Texas that's flying in here to take a look at them. He's gonna put 'em all in his house!"
Read: One Thousand Trump Taj Mahal Casino Workers Strike Over Wages
The $1 billion Trump Taj Mahal casino was inaugurated by Trump in 1990. However, in 2014, when its parent company went bankrupt, the hotel’s activities came to a standstill. It was on the verge of shutting down but was somehow saved after it was revamped under the new ownership of Icahn Enterprises. The hotel was finally shut down on Oct. 10, 2016.
Once the auction gets over, the casino would be replaced by Hard Rock Hotel and Casino, who plans to completely renovate the property, according to the Hill. The report also stated Icahn sold the Trump Taj Mahal to Hard Rock in March for about $50 million.
Samsung has been having a roller coaster ride lately — the company suffered a huge loss in the third quarter of last year, but bounced back the next quarter. Then it announced its earning guidance Friday for the second quarter of 2017, projecting its highest operating profit ever of 14 trillion won ($12.11 billion).
This marks an increase of 72 percent in year-on-year estimates. It also beats the 13.1 trillion won ($11.3 billion) projection by Bloomberg analysts. Revenue also rose 18 percent year-on-year to $60 trillion won (around $52 billion), beating previous estimates of $59 trillion won ($51.1 billion).
Read: Samsung Slashes Q3 2016 Profit Estimate Due To Galaxy Note 7 Issues
Its strong estimates, according to Bloomberg are due to two factors — the success of the Samsung Galaxy S8 and the company branching into smartphone component manufacturing.
“Samsung’s been successful with cutting manufacturing costs for memory chips, and that’s been a big factor, while display sales helped to boost the earnings. Chip prices will keep rising and another record operating profit is in sight for Samsung in the third quarter,” Greg Roh, an analyst at HMC Investment Securities Co. told Bloomberg.
 The company seems to be more than making up for the loss of reputation it suffered after its Galaxy Note 7 flagship started exploding due to a battery defect. The company had to recall the device and discontinue it. The company suffered a year-on-year decrease in operating profits of 2.19 trillion won ($1.93 billion) in the third quarter of the 2016 fiscal year.
The company’s bounce back is, in part, owing to its development of new features and technologies. The Samsung Galaxy S8 was the first major flagship smartphone with an edge-to-edge display and a 10nm technology based Qualcomm Snapdragon 835 processor, which performs and utilizes battery better than the existing 14nm technology processors.
The device reportedly clocked five million units in global sales in the first month since its launch.
The company has also been projected to replace Intel as the top global chipset manufacturer. It is expected to clock $15.1 billion in the second quarter of this fiscal year, according to Japan’s Nomura Securities.
It is also expected to outdo Intel in terms of annual chipset sales worldwide, clocking $63.6 billion in comparison to Intel’s $60.5 billion. In addition, the company is expected to benefit from the rising cost of mobile components. According to HMC analyst Greg Roh, DRAM prices are set to increase in July.
Samsung seems to have made the move towards manufacturing at the right time, as the smartphone chipset industry is expected to ride a super cycle due to consolidation and demand for new technologies such as artificial intelligence and cloud computing, according to Reuters.
Read: Samsung Replacing Intel As Top Chipmaker
The company is also setting up the world’s biggest OLED display manufacturing plant and will invest up to $21 billion in its set-up, according to the South Korean publication, ETNews. Samsung also reportedly signed a 10 trillion won (around $8.65 billion) contract with Apple to supply 92 million curved OLED display panels for its upcoming iPhone.
Elon Musk will keep his promise to deliver a large-scale Powerpack system to the government of South Australia in 100 days, or make it free, after Tesla won a bid “to provide a 100 MW/129 MWh Powerpack system to be paired with global renewable energy provider Neoen’s Hornsdale Wind Farm near Jamestown” in the Australian state.
Tesla announced Thursday on Twitter it had won the bid for what will be “the world’s largest lithium-ion battery storage project,” and Musk followed suit by lauding Australia for its renewable energy focus.


Read: Tesla Powerpack 2 Double Energy Density
In a statement Thursday on its website, Tesla said: “Tesla Powerpack will charge using renewable energy from the Hornsdale Wind Farm and then deliver electricity during peak hours to help maintain the reliable operation of South Australia's electrical infrastructure. The Tesla Powerpack system will further transform the state’s movement towards renewable energy and see an advancement of a resilient and modern grid.”
The capacity being installed by Tesla is the entire storage component of the project, and the company says it will be complete by December. The system will meet power requirements for over 30,000 homes, a number roughly the same as the homes that lost power during a state-wide blackout in September, according to the statement.
South Australia Premier Jay Weatherill issued a statement Friday local time (Thursday in the United States) about the timeline for Tesla to finish building the system.
“Confirming the commitment from Tesla CEO Elon Musk to deliver the battery within 100 days or it is free, it has been agreed between Tesla and the South Australian Government that the starting date for the 100 days will be once the grid interconnection agreement has been signed,” he said in the statement.
The battery will be operational round-the-clock and will provide emergency backup power whenever there is a shortfall in energy requirements in the state. The grid-scale energy project will also help manage peak load during the summer, an important factor given the blackouts that occurred during the Australian summer in the beginning of 2017. 
“The deal will also bring other investments by both Neoen and Tesla into South Australia’s economy, with details to be announced in the future,” Weatherill’s statement added.
Read: Elon Musk Says Tesla Powerwall Doesn’t Make Economic Sense In The US
It is not clear what that investment could be, or how much Tesla stands to gain from this Powerpack deal. However, the Tesla statement spoke about what the company is already doing in Australia’s power sector, and how the Powerwall could also be used in South Australia.
“Tesla’s Powerwall is now being installed for residential customers across Australia and ramping up quickly. The same technology that can help stabilize the South Australian grid can also be used by homeowners to collect energy during the day so it is stored and made available day and night, providing uninterrupted power even if the grid goes down,” the statement said.
Any number of variables in starting a new business could prove crucial to its success — or failure. The price of leasing an office space, the availability of human capital and accessible financing are all key elements when considering where and how to get a business venture off the ground. A new study weighed these and more key metrics to determine which are the best and worst states to start a business.
Read: Tide Banking Startup Raises $14 Million For Small Business Services
WalletHub  published its findings Wednesday and considered three main dimensions in its study: business environment, access to resources and business costs. Within those dimensions, the study considered 20 other relevant metrics. Those included variables like average length of a work week; startups per capita; five-year business survival rate; financing ability; labor costs; corporate taxes; and office space and cost of living affordability, respectively. East state was then graded on a 100-point scale and rank-ordered.
Based on its data, WalletHub determined the best states to start a business overall are:
1. North Dakota2. Texas3. Utah4. Oklahoma5. Nebraska6. Florida7. Colorado8. Georgia9. Missouri10. South Dakota
The worst-ranking states for overall score were:
1. New Jersey2. New Hampshire3. Maryland4. Rhode Island5. Hawaii6. Pennsylvania7. Connecticut8. Delaware9. Alabama10. Arkansas
Not every state that ranked highly overall necessarily also ranked highly in each respective dimension. For example, North Dakota, Alaska and Texas scored highest for the business environment category. Utah, Massachusetts and California ranked highest for access to resources. As for the business costs dimension, Oklahoma, West Virginia and Michigan led the rank.

Scroll over the map to see how each state ranks overall.
For specific metrics like cheapest office spaces, Iowa Maine, and South Dakota came out on top, though South Dakota alone ranked in the top 10 for overall score. Likewise, the most accessible funding could be found in North Dakota, Utah, Iowa, Mississippi and West Virginia, even though only two of those states ranked highest overall. However, as the WalletHub noted in its report, the most common reason a business is likely to fail is: location, location, location.
Read: Marijuana Startups LikeTokken Aim To Provide The Cannabis Industry With Banking Services
“Choosing the right state for a business is therefore crucial to its success,” said the report. “A state that provides the ideal conditions for business creation — access to cash, human capital and affordable office space, for instance — can help new ventures not only take off but also thrive.”
Best and worst states to start a business in 2017, according to WalletHub. Photo: WalletHub
Markets are not governed by an unalterable rationality; rather they reflect the humanity of their participants. Thanks to big data, machine learning, not to mention the relative cheapness of computing power, we no longer have to fit everything into one efficient market model.
This is the view of Jeremy Sosabowski PhD, CEO & co-founder, AlgoDynamix. His area of expertise is identifying endogenous portfolio risk. "The risk we look at is internally generated risk. It's the panic. It's not the external stuff. It's not the Swiss central bank de-pegging their currency.
"I'm talking about tail risk - the lethal stuff that kills your portfolio, and if you are not careful it's going to kill your bank. And it's the toughest one to model by far."
AlgoDynamix provides a risk analytics engine based on deep data algorithms, scanning in real-time multiple data sources. These algorithms analyse the dynamic behaviour of market participants – buyers and sellers – to identify anomalous clusters of behaviour. It's a solution being sold to banks, hedge funds and family offices.
Sosabowski believes historical data is interesting but relying on it is the wrong way to approach financial time series. "Our platform and our insights will tell you that something is about to go really, really bad. I don't like the term predictive, this is not predictive; it's forecasting to some extent but it's already there.
"There are already problems in the time series, something is already happening, panic is building up, you just can't see it yet. You can't see it yet because you don't have the deep data insight tools. We are giving you those insights."
A good way to illustrate internally generated risk is the Millennium Bridge example. Its designers and engineers overlooked the fact that pedestrians crossing a bridge that has lateral sway have an unconscious tendency to match their footsteps to the sway, exacerbating it. This led to the bridge being closed.
"They'd designed the bridge on the assumption that people would walk randomly on the bridge," said Sosabowski. "Random markets, random data, that's what you assume; Brownian Motion, that sort of stuff.
Newsweek is hosting a Structure Security event Sept. 26-27 in San Francisco.  Photo: Newsweek Media Group
"I'm not a big fan of Brownian Motion or statistical distributions, you probably gather. Nobody in Cambridge on our team believes that distribution or Brownian Motion or statistics is the right tool set for financial data."
Sosabowski said these events are not one-off black swans. These are the grey swans that typically occur about 20 or 25 times a year. "When these sorts of things happen, correlation tends to spike, so you think you have the diversified portfolio, you think you are covered, but when you most need it, is when things actually stop working - so that's the painful reality."
The way groups of anonymous market participants – BlackRock, Fidelity etc – are structuring their deals leaves a unique fingerprint in the order book in any normal day. The Alogodynamix solution looks for large clusters of sellers all behaving in the same way - the stampede.
In terms of a time horizon, Sosabowski said it depends on the asset class but it's typically sort of 10, 12, 14 hours ahead of time at least. "So there's a big enough window if you want to go out there and hedge. This is not particularly intra-day. This is the big moves. This is the larger money pots getting ready."
He said the platform is plugged into most of the big futures exchanges - Eurex, CME, Cebot - looking at all their futures. Regarding FX futures, he said: "I'm going to be a bit incorrect and I'm going to stereotype. North American markets tend to cluster enormously, lots of panic; same with the Nikkei Futures. The FTSE Futures, Eurex - pretty boring. There must be a sign up saying, 'don't panic'. FTSE never panics. I don't know what it is with the UK."
Interestingly, the company originally applied its mathematics to medical data, and later migrated to finance. "We started off as a medical company, looking at cardiac arrests. At some point we figured out computing power was getting so cheap we can actually put some tick data in this. That was about two and a half years ago.
"We are happy to be in banking. You might think banking is heavily regulated, try doing something in the medical space. That's regulated. Banking is fine."
This article was first published on May 13, 2016.
What's to stop intelligent algorithms, programmed to make a profit, from learning to collude with one another in ways which bend market rules? Such a scenario would require regulatory oversight from the very cutting edge of computer science.
The idea of artificial intelligence manipulating outcomes in the real world and then exploiting these on the markets is bestseller material. But there's fascinating scope for this to actually happen as computing power increases and algorithms get smarter.
Someone who has thought about this a lot is Anthony Amicangioli, CEO and founder of Hyannis Port Research. His company developed Riskbot which has been described as "a supercomputer that watches supercomputers"; a (black) box that sits between the trading firm and the exchange to prevent erroneous trades going through to market.
Amicangioli explains that the detection of excessive spoofing (placing orders to create the appearance of interest that the market is going to move in one direction or another) using artificial intelligence (AI) could potentially have some bewildering consequences.
He told IBTimes UK: "There are a few behaviours that are really interesting to consider. With machine learning (ML), you write code that acts on data. I distinguish advanced ML (from things like big data) where one begins to treat code in a manner similar to data; creating code that can change itself through intelligent morphing.
"Detecting spoofing is relatively easy. I'm looking for someone who sends a bunch of deceptive orders on one side of a given stock's book, abruptly pulls back, and benefits from trading the opposite side of the book shortly thereafter.
"But what about the case when an AI algorithm modifies itself so that rather than benefit for itself, maybe it gets even smarter than that and begins to collude with another trading entity with a similar algorithm.
"So I spoof but you benefit - we sort of have this unholy implicit contract to do the same in reverse. If that sort of hypothetical scenario is possible, then a lot of fascinating regulatory questions arise."
The regulator would have to adopt a scientifically rigorous approach to spot this kind of activity, notes Amicangioli. And then how would they deal with it?
"Is it possible that AI could be written where the author of said code is not intending to spoof or layer but an algorithm somehow inadvertently does? Or maybe even more complexly, begins to collude with other algorithms."
Amicangioli said the probability going forward that there could be unintended AI outcomes is high. From a regulatory perspective, the net behaviour as analysed, could be deemed to be bad, but the author could be deemed to be completely blameless.
Much was made of the fact that market regulators were eons behind the complexity that precipitated the 2010 flash crash. So what can regulators do to evolve in a ML markets environment?
"I don't believe the government or regulators could ever just hire teams of scientists and compete. These hypothetical problems I have outlined may be around the corner; I don't think they exist today; I could be wrong.
Newsweek is hosting a Structure Security event Sept. 26-27 in San Francisco.  Photo: Newsweek Media Group
"I think it will be an absolutely Herculean challenge for regulators to meet this on their own, and even measuring the performance of companies like Hyannis Port Research will be a very interesting challenge," he said.
His company has evolved into a surveillance role using ML techniques, but the initial product had a formulaic approach, searching vast numbers of liquidity destinations and asking if traders have used too much of their buying power, or hold a concentration of risk in one area.
The current generation of technology developed by Hyannis Port Research focuses on activities such as "layering". This is interesting because it occupies a sort of regulatory grey area. Layering happens when there is a line of buyers and sellers for a given stock and the market sits in the middle: say you are 20th or 30th in the queue and there are a million shares in front of you, then it's unlikely you are going to have a relevant place in that market. Excessive layering can be a tactic to keep others out of a market or to exercise unfair control over a given security.
Amicangioli said: "A lot of algorithms will send orders. Sending orders is like a brain stem function, it's like breathing, you don't think about it. You are just getting in line; the buy or sell decision doesn't really happen at the time you sent the order.
"This is where it gets a little grey from a regulatory perspective. You still have to intend to have that order filled at the time you sent it. But the real decision to buy the stock or sell the stock is actually whether or not you take yourself out of the queue before you arrive at the front of the line.
"I define it as excessive padding or layering of the queue without the intention of actually executing the order, a tactic where you are blocking other people from participating actively in the market.
Riskbot can also spot runaway algorithms, where order placement rates look erroneous, or exceed a given frequency, and shut them down - a kind of "market aware firewall".
"Through Riskbot, we can say, turn off 'buy Microsoft' for any account, at any exchange, and subsequent attempts to send such trades will be disallowed while all other traffic is allowed. This allows us to police behaviour on a very granular basis."
Markets may reflect the humanity that operates within them but are they possible to predict with any accuracy?
"It is very difficult to detect with precision what will happen tomorrow. On the other hand, regarding what might happen in the next 30 seconds, I think the market is closer to predictable, which gives rise to the market making and HFT markets.
"But you could ask, is the market rigged - are humans controlling the market? I believe very strongly right now that the answer is 'no'."
Amicangioli added that the competitive aspect of ML algorithms could provide powerful prediction capabilities, in the same way as human prediction yields remarkable results in the futures markets. "Just like the wisdom of the crowd, if you get a lot of people to wage their opinion on a given subject, they tend to give you very remarkable predictions on the future.
"I think very similarly, the wisdom of crowds of intelligent machines does tend to yield a fair result. If someone decides to game things, to spoof, other machines can also intelligently pick up on that behaviour and counter it," he said.
This article was first published on June 29, 2016.
A useful example of the largely misunderstood concept of exponential technological transformation is the introduction of electric motors. When these replaced steam power in factories not much changed at first. It wasn't until these motors were shrunk and located at points across production lines that globalisation as we know it happened.
Interestingly, the time this took to happen – 20-odd years – is about how long it's taken the early web to reach the "Internet of Things" (IoT) and the introduction of blockchain technology.
We are now at the tipping point. Technologies like IoT, autonomous vehicles, drones, robots or 3D printers will "people" this brave new machine-to-machine (M2M) economy.
Core information and communication devices, which have been traditionally confined to boxes (PCs, smart phones, tablets etc) are increasingly embedded in all types of artifacts making our homes, offices, cars, trains, public spaces and cities "smarter".
It's still unclear what scale we are talking about here and the impact it will have on society – but we can expect between 20 and 50 billion IoT devices by 2020.
Autonomous entities will evolve that start transacting digital and physical values among each other. Resources will be optimised, access capacities and flexibilities valuated and traded among market participants in the form of a digital token.
Blockchains transacting and disbursing micropayments using self-executing contracts will be the essential lubricant of this economy.
During a panel session on blockchain and IoT at the recent Consensus 2016 conference, Carsten Stöcker of the innovation programme at German utility RWE, made the point that the vast majority of corporates including banks do not as yet have an IoT strategy to connect M2M transactions to the physical world.
Stöcker said: "Today we have two types of customers, individuals and corporates. Now with the rise of the machine-to-machine economy, a new customer segment of machines is arising."
"Our assumption is that these M2M economies will be orchestrated as transactions on the blockchain. And the prerequisite to be part of the machine-to-machine economy is to have an integrated IoT and blockchain strategy and a footprint in both, IoT and blockchain space."
Stöcker added that some banks and insurance companies have an IoT stream and a blockchain stream, but both teams work pretty much in silos.
Exploring combinations
Establishing interfaces for retail or corporate customers in the M2M economy may not be classed as an important investment area for banks.
Newsweek is hosting a Structure Security event Sept. 26-27 in San Francisco.  Photo: Newsweek Media Group
Citi Ventures, which accelerates innovation at Citi, is exploring the potential of blockchain and IoT as a member of the IDEO coLAB. The coLAB is a collaborative network of partners including Citi Ventures, Fidelity, Liberty Mutual and NASDAQ focused on accelerating the research and development of emerging technologies for their respective industries.
Ian Lee, head of the Global Lab Network for Citi Ventures, who was also speaking on the subject at Consensus 2016, said: "As a member of coLAB, we are starting to explore how the combination of blockchain and IoT could create new solutions and experiences for consumers and institutions.
"The idea of a machine-to-machine economy is not new, but the emergence of blockchain further enables financial institutions that are already involved in commerce, transactions and contracts to explore the potential development of new IoT-enabled systems," he said.
For some time now Stöcker has been working on technical implementation scenarios for the M2M economy. He expects to see super-lean light blockchain nodes running on IoT devices that are connected to a P2P network with either plenty of distributed computing power or datacentre grade blockchain nodes; IoT data and tokens of value will be stored in scalable blockchainified databases such as BigchainDB; millions of IoT transactions per second will be executed using either crypto conditions or smart contract business logic incentivised by transaction fees. A variety of algorithms will solve optimisation problems for connected systems of IoT devices.
Banks have certainly woken up to the concept of blockchains, but if they don't have a blockchain-based IoT strategy, if they don't have access to IoT devices, they will not participate in the transactions of IoT devices and they lose the whole market share in the M2M economy, Stöcker reiterated.
On the edge of exponential change
"So for corporates with physical assets it's easier because they have IoT devices in grids, smart homes, logistics fleets, cars or manufacturing assets.
"This is done by business logic in decentralised systems such as a smart contract. Of course there will be competition in terms of smart contracts; people go to smart contracts with the least transaction fee. It's super-zero margin economy. The financial transaction comes (almost) for free on a public blockchain; there could be no space for banks. There might be some space for physical industries. Who has this tiny space is completely unclear. But it will probably be just one kind of entity that will dominate this space."
Stöcker agrees we are at the edge of exponential change. When the internet was built it started with slow modems but now homes are connected using fibre. This infrastructure is already in place so IoT and blockchain-enabled entities can piggy-back existing infrastructure making the pace of change much, much faster.
Lee said he believes that it's still too early to predict a timeline for when we will see solutions in market, but that it is important for the financial industry to continue to experiment to understand and explore blockchain and IoT's potential.
This article was first published on July 15, 2016.
Extracting value from a universe of data, analysing sentiment around company names (equities) or about anything else (macro), is a complex journey and we are only about 5% down that road.
The parameters are evolving by which an ever-expanding data set, including the likes of Twitter, pictures, text, video is processed; relying on experts versus the wisdom of the crowd; sentiment derived from a "bag of words", as opposed to structured linguistic analysis.
Last week's Unicom conference, AI, Machine Learning and Sentiment Analysis Applied to Finance (July 14) brought together a group of experts in this area. Professor Gautum Mitra, OptiRisk Systems introduced Elijah DePalma and James Cantarella, Thomson Reuters; Pierce Crosby, StockTwits; Anders Bally, Sentifi; Peter Hafez, RavenPack; Stephen Morse, Twitter.
DePalma differed somewhat from the others because the Thomson Reuters sentiment engine uses only accredited Reuters news data, rather than raw social media chatter. DePalma explained: "When we extract features, the simpler approach that's often done on academic literature, is a 'bag of words' approach. What we are doing is a bit more sophisticated; we are doing linguistic parsing, where you are looking at the structure of the language - so you can think object, verb, subject-type representation."
An example of this in action could be the sentence: "IBM surpasses Microsoft". A simple bag of words approach would give IBM and Microsoft the same sentiment score. DePalma's news analytics engine recognises "IBM" is the subject, "Microsoft" is the object and "surpasses" as the verb and the positive/negative relationships between subject and the object, which the sentiment scores reflect: IBM positive, Microsoft, negative.
"So you are creating a grammatical parse tree and one of the benefits of this is, rather than bag of words where you might have tens of thousands of features, you have a low dimensional feature representation when you create these grammatical parse trees. This makes the last step there - classification - much faster.
"But it also makes the sentiment scores about 20% more accurate; from say 60 % accurate up to 80%. And keep in mind that among human readers, internal accuracy consistency is around 85%."
DePalma pointed out the parsing approach also affects how Reuters approaches foreign languages, as in case of its Japanese news analyitics service.
"Why not take auto translation engine like Google Translate, translate Japanese language to English and apply your engine? Because we would lose the language structure and essentially reduced to a bag of words type accuracy."
The unstructured "noisy" character of data such as Twitter has not stopped big hedge funds and asset managers analysing it in an attempt to get an edge over their competitors.
Stephen Morse, senior manager, data partnerships and sales at Twitter, said: "The financial space is a rapidly growing vertical for us. We serve hedge funds directly, prop traders, market makers, banks, fintech partners, etc.
"We are not a news organisation but events break on Twitter very commonly now - not only around significant financial events but act of god events. So this is a big use case in financial markets and sentiment analysis is a very common use case and we are seeing that at the 'cashtag' level.
"A number of CEOs start to communicate on Twitter before they do anything else, like Elon Musk. If you want to know what he's doing you have to go to Twitter - it's the first place he will go and, often it's the only place he communicates."
Newsweek is hosting a Structure Security event Sept. 26-27 in San Francisco.  Photo: Newsweek Media Group
Morse said sentiment derived from consumers about certain brands, which can also impact equity prices, is a new twist on the subject currently being explored and which we can expect to see a lot of in the future. Twitter can also gauge macro and geopolitical factors he said, citing a study last year which showed Twitter data predictive of unemployment levels in the US.
StockTwits, which provides real time commentary on individual companies, was the inventor of the cashtag, adopted by Twitter over time.
Pierce Crosby, business director and data evangelist, StockTwits said: "Basically all of our conversations are structured around individual companies. But also we allow users to add binaries, so they add a bullish or a bearish tag to their messages.
"From a database standpoint, it becomes a classifier for a large database of data because you have these binaries that eliminate a lot of false positives, or things like people trying to be funny with their words.
Crosby said that while sentiment is the obvious low hanging fruit, the data can also be used to look into volatility of stocks. "I think on the macro level it's really interesting but on a company level and sector level it's also very interesting, where more or less we watch volumes spike in real time on either different asset classes or companies or ETFs, and as that actually translates into realised volatility.
"We have run a study that actually looks at the predictive element of crowds around, not just events, but just on daily trading activity. So basically trying to correlate volatility as it applies to companies from social data is becoming an area that people are really interested in."
Peter Hafez, chief data scientist, RavenPack said an important concept right now is "democratising data". Big hedge funds and asset managers want to know they can get the data they need, whether in-house or external, at the time they need it.
He said: "There's a lot of new data being produced out there that we can take advantage of, and a lot of asset managers and hedge funds have become a little bit of a data hoarders."
The data can be anything from emails to instant messages or legal documents. These can be fed to people using his company's data engine, which is like access to a private cloud. "In the end what people are trying to build is almost like an internal Amazon, where you can go on a platform and say, I want to get back what we know as a company about IBM.
"Then you'll get, this from the legal department, we know that from the Dow Jones news wires, we know this from Twitter, we know that from the analyst reports we get in our inbox. So you can take all of these different sources and combine it."
DePalma added: "In the last five or six months, I have had a number of client trials with large fund managers - large being more than several hundred billion AUM.
"One of them spoke transparently with me that they believe these behaviour finance tools will be maturing in the next five to 10 years and they, like their portfolio managers, are already incorporating these types of signals into discretionary process.
"So that as these tools become more reliable and mature, their portfolio managers will have already incorporated them, to use them for their large fund management."
This article was first published on July 18, 2016
RavenPack, provider of big data analytics to financial institutions, has partnered with Alliance News, a real-time newsroom dedicated to the UK market.
Alliance News specialises in breaking news on all UK listed stocks, economic issues, central bank decisions and currencies. RavenPack helps clients enhance returns, reduce risk and increase efficiency by systematically incorporating the effects of public information in their models or workflows.
Peter Hafez, chief data scientist, Raven Pack, told IBTimes UK: "Raven Pack is covering a large set of sources, both when it comes to major news wire services but also when it comes to more local news. Of course the challenge is to find sources that will bring in unique and relevant and timely content that is interesting to investors.
"One of the things that RavenPack does is to identify these types of valuable sources. As part of that work we have found Alliance News to be especially valuable to our UK investors, or more generally to our global investors that are interested in trading UK markets."
Newsweek is hosting a Structure Security event Sept. 26-27 in San Francisco.  Photo: Newsweek Media Group
Raven Pack has formed a direct relationship with Alliance News to consume all of its news and then it feeds this into the RavenPack's algorithms and structuring process, which then assists existing quant clients and asset managers to beat benchmarks. Hafez compared Alliance News to US news providers such as Bezinga or Sleekmoney.
He said the service offers good coverage of earnings news, analyst ratings, as well as macro news that moves markets including central bank news for the G7 plus China, Ireland and Switzerland.
Alliance News chief executive Tom Waite said in a statement: "The Brexit vote and its fallout have created a highly news-driven market in London, so the quick Alliance News reporting on corporate actions, broker ratings and public policy is more influential than ever."
This article was originally published on July 25, 2016.
In an effort to beat benchmarks, investment companies sometimes say they are looking at the entire dataset of Twitter, known in the business as the "full firehose".
In actual fact, few people can manage the sheer scale and storage challenges that come with it, not to mention the costs. A hypothesis-driven attempt to do some of this manually is possible but challenging; for instance, you could start searching the social media stream using a hashtag approach.
Peter Hafez, chief data scientist at big data analytics firm RavenPack, knows the market well and how tricky it is to process large volumes of noisy unstructured data. He recounted a story about a small hedge fund, which tried the hashtag approach on "gold", hoping to create a gold sentiment indicator to trade the related futures contracts. Unfortunately, their algorithms didn't take into account how often gold is mentioned during larger sports events like the Olympic Games; and they ended up not being particularly successful.
"Knowing that people's favourite sports athlete had won a gold medal, isn't that useful if you want to measure gold sentiment," said Hafez. "Even though an Olympic gold medal actually does contain some gold, but something like 1.34%. I highly doubt that's enough to move the gold price in any significant way."
Hafez pointed out that taking a whitelist approach might be a better way to go, i.e. identifying for instance a company's official Twitter handle or that of their CEO, of well-known journalists, analysts, economists or opinion-makers. It might still be interesting to search for specific terms or hashtags, say "Brexit", and then see which entities typically turn up when the term is mentioned. In this case, this would have led you to accounts like Boris Johnson's, David Cameron's or Nigel Farage's, and could have provided a strategy to build with. In this case, it might have been interesting to have tracked the sentiment of the "leave" vs. "remain" campaigns to get a glimpse of what the likely outcome of the referendum would have been.
"It's potentially a more discretionary or hybrid type of application, rather than a pure systematic quant approach. However, in the end, you'd still need to rely on text mining to do proper entity detection, noise filtering, and sentiment scoring."
Returning to the question of firms that boast that they trade on Twitter, Hafez said: "besides the ones taking the whitelist approach, most will work either directly with a Twitter sentiment feed, or with a 10% random sample of the full firehose, also known as the 'decahose'."
"Trading on the 'decahose' rather than the 'full firehose' has obvious disadvantages – especially within event trading. You may receive information late on a given event simply because you didn't have access to the entire feed - leaving a potential edge to other investors. However, if you want to do something along the lines of 'wisdom of the crowds', creating a sentiment indicator for a particular company or macro theme, then working with a 10% sample might be a decent proxy."
Several examples exist where events have broken first on Twitter and some CEOs choose this channel first and foremost to deliver news about their companies; a good example is Elon Musk . This leaves data driven players with the challenge of finding the proverbial "needle in a haystack" of signals and noise.
Newsweek is hosting a Structure Security event Sept. 26-27 in San Francisco.  Photo: Newsweek Media Group
Hafez said: "From a trading perspective, as a whole social media is still considered mostly noise. The technological requirements to provide the necessary trading edge that people are looking for is extremely high. It's already hard to do well within traditional news, and then add the language irregularities of social media on top of that. Not easy! There may be times where social media is breaking news, but we come back to that needle in a haystack type of argument: how often would we have to trade on 'false positives' to get that one 'true positive'."
RavenPack, which today added the UK market news specialist Alliance News to its platform, takes unstructured data, including both news and social media, and structures it on behalf of its clients. The service detects events and sentiment primarily from textual content related to companies, people, places, organisations, currencies, and commodities. For each entity it detects, it also provides relevance and novelty scoring amongst other analytics.
The word on the street is that trading on social media does yield value. However, in contrast to traditional news sources, it lacks an editorial process, which typically leads to lower precision and recall rates as compared to traditional news. "The presence of emoticons, lingo, negation, or the need for tracking user credibility or klout makes it much harder for machines or algorithms to really understand what's going on, and to figure out how it might impact asset prices."
"One of the more promising approaches for solving the credibility issue is to work with a particular whitelist of accounts. You might start out with identifying who are the key players in a given market or company by including the accounts of: big investors, the company's own account, the accounts of their CEO, leading analysts and journalists etc."
"By taking this approach, you might as an investor feel more comfortable with taking an event driven trading approach. However, if you're interested in extracting value from all users across the entire firehose, then from a noise perspective you'll be much more challenged because you are moving into a space that's completely and utterly unstructured."
RavenPack offers some solace to data hoarding financial institutions that have become rather anal about keeping all the data they produce in-house.
This may include all their emails, all their instant messages, all the analyst reports coming from brokers and so on.
"A lot of content, they have to store for compliance reasons, so it's not really an active decision that they make; it's basically a requirement that is often put on top of them. However, given the cost of storing all this information, it's only natural to think about ways to take advantage of it, and to gather further insights from it.
"Let's say I'm a discretionary trader and I'm thinking about buying stocks in Alphabet. I might worry about if there is something in my inbox I haven't read or some discussion on the instant message boards within the firm that talks unfavourably about Alphabet; something that has not been on my radar. That is, is there a contrarian view out there I should take a look at.
"Feeding your e-mail inbox, your brokerage reports, or IMs through an engine like RavenPack could help you identify that contrarian view. That might be one way of addressing this type of data hoarder problem."
In terms of the directional movement of bitcoin the currency, 2015 saw near 40% gains making it one of the best performing financial instruments out there. But often traders are seeking greater returns than that and don't necessarily want the directional exposure, but just want to capture bitcoin's volatility.
This means trading bitcoin at a higher frequency, balancing transaction costs and execution risk – and this can be facilitated by machine learning.
Arshak Navruzyan the founder of Startup.ML, who has been applying machine learning to quantitative finance problems, found that cryptocurrency is also interesting because it allows relatively small scale investors access to exchanges, where they can get full order book data and trade more cost effectively compared to going through a brokerage.
Navruzyan said: "This is actually one of the exciting things about cryptocurrency; why a lot of our modelling work is happening in this area is because you do get access to exchanges even as a little guy."
A key thing for alpha traders is the concept of transaction costs. Volatility and transaction costs kind of go hand in hand, and if your transaction costs are high then your prediction has to be accurate for your alpha strategy to work.
Another key idea, associated with bitcoin, is low liquidity, which is kind of the flipside of volatility. The amount that changes hands on a given exchange on daily basis is not very much at all. On Coinbase's GDAX, for example, only about five million dollars worth gets traded on a daily basis.
Regarding transaction costs, a lot of exchanges favour market-making strategies versus taker strategies (maker being someone that's adding orders to the book; taker being someone that is taking those orders from the book). As a maker you pay a lot less fees.
Newsweek is hosting a Structure Security event Sept. 26-27 in San Francisco.  Photo: Newsweek Media Group
Navruzyan said: "If you can make predictions for a maker strategy that's probably the easiest way for a new trader to try to get alpha generation happening on Bitcoin. Now maker strategies are inherently more complex because you are putting limit orders on the book.
"So even though you have fewer fees, you have now introduced a significant amount of execution risk, the book will run away from you, as it were. You are trying to get within that spread, but the book at high velocity will go off in a completely different direction and your order just sits there."
There are two places where machine learning can be used to gain alpha. One aspect of this is making a directional forecast for the instrument. So you decide what your hold time frame is going to be; it could be an hour it could be six hours, it could be five minutes.
"You build a machine learning model to try and forecast the direction of the instrument. That allows you to take either a long or a short position in the instrument for some period of time that you have designated.
"Another part, that we are doing lot of research on, is actually getting the trades executed, particularly when you have a market making strategy, which is great because the transaction costs are very low or non-existent.
"We are researching areas where machine learning can actually overcome that execution risk. In other words while you are market-making, machine learning is assisting you in getting your orders executed," said Navruzyan.
An explanation of how Navruzyan's execution risk machine learning system operates gets into some pretty deep proprietary waters. He said a lot of execution optimisation systems within traditional markets basically look at the order book pretty closely; they look at buy pressure, sell pressure and try to assess which way the liquidity flows are happening within the order book.
"We are building an intelligent system; we are building an AI that does this," he said.
This article was originally published on Aug. 5, 2016
Big data is big business. Take, for example, the type of data that credit card companies have at their disposal. Access to Visa's database would essentially provide a real time window on the entire economy.
This raises interesting questions about how, when and if certain data should be used. Visa makes billions and billions from its core business and while it could doubtless make more money from its data, it's probably not worth the risk.
Tammer Kamel founder and CEO of Quandl, a technology company that provides a plethora of data sets to financial institutions, said Visa is rightly paranoid about the sort of headlines that imprudent monetisation of transaction data could generate.
"Imagine a headline saying: 'Visa selling your information to greedy hedge funds on Wall Street'. They know there is money to be made by extracting insights from the data, but the risk/return profile is scary. Sure they can maybe make an extra $50m, $100m or even half a billion dollars, but that's still small compared to their core revenue and going through that process puts their reputation at risk. This is something these guys are wrestling with right now."
Quandl has over 100,000 users including lots of data scientists from banks and hedge funds, and over the years Kamel has gathered plenty of insight into the data business. He also pointed out that card providers and payment processors are paid a lot of money by major retail outfits like Walmart. If card providers were to turn around and start letting the outside world infer how sales were going at Walmart that would be a huge betrayal.
"Wall Street would love to see all the credit card transactions that are happening at Walmart and work out how Walmart is doing. But if Visa ever released that, Walmart would be livid," he said.
Quandl provides well-structured data, the sort analysts like, via its API, so it's available decoupled from other software or hardware such as Bloomberg terminals. This means users can easily run their own machine learning analytics on it. Quandl's data sets feature everything from alcohol consumption per head of capita in Albania to building control permissions across the US.
"We have a big data set that is essentially all the building permit data in the US, broken down by regions and cities and counties, and the sort of building permits people are applying for – is it residential, is it commercial, are they putting in elevators, are they putting in pools.
"A nice, big, hairy data set, and if you analyse it you can learn all kinds of interesting things about what's happening in the economy right now, because of course construction is a very important part of the economy."
Newsweek is hosting a Structure Security event Sept. 26-27 in San Francisco.  Photo: Newsweek Media Group
Financial institutions are constantly searching for new alternative data sources; once the rest of the market gets hold of something exotic that works, it quickly gets priced in and will no longer generate alpha. One extremely nascent, big and potentially very hairy flow of data could be captured from the Internet of Things (IoT), which promises billions of extra devices connected to the internet by 2020, endlessly "talking" to each other.
Regarding IoT data, Kamel said he is "super-intrigued" and watchful, but again he cited ownership issues. For example, in the Midwest many farms have smart tractors or sensors in the ground feeding back data about the quality of their soil.
"The sensors send data to a server, and that server does some analysis and goes back to the farmer and says, you need to use this kind of fertiliser in these areas and at these quantities to improve your soil quality and meet your yields.
"The point is, these companies are getting this data from all over the Midwest and implicitly they know the quality of all the fields that are growing corn this year. This means they have a good sense of what the corn yield will be like this year – which of course Wall Street investors would love to know.
"It's a beautiful IoT data set, but extracting the value is a challenge because who owns that data? Technically it's the farmers' private information."
In a situation like this the data sourcing party would need to negotiate bureaucratic challenges, such as how to compensate all the farmers. "I think with IoT data, while it seems so exciting and definitely has all this potential, there are challenges with actually bringing it to market."
Kamel explained there are some clever ways to address issues of ownership and privacy. One of the data sets Quandl sources comes from email, based on a partnership it has with a technology company. "That essentially gives us access to three million people's emails. The company gives away its inbox management software, and in return people opt-in to allow this company to essentially read their emails. Now that might sound a bit evil at first, but what this company does is very responsible; they anonymise and aggregate everything."
Users of this data don't care about any one person's email; only how many of these three million people are shopping at eBay or Best Buy or Amazon; how much are they spending and what are they buying?
"You pull that kind of information out and you can actually draw really interesting conclusions about consumer spending patterns and indeed about how Amazon is doing, right now," said Kamel.
In respect of individuals' privacy, this anonymised processing is a much less invasive use of email data than the type of analytics performed by Google. It reads all your emails to figure out who you are and what you like, so that you can be personally followed around the internet and shown adverts.
This article was originally published on Nov. 15, 2016.
Dataminr is one of the few companies able to handle the entire publicly available Twitter dataset (known as the firehose), using the platform's wide swath of data to build smarter algorithms and better real-time alerts for its clients. Today, Dataminr says the learning curve from complete real-time data access over years is key to how it services business verticals in finance, corporate security, news gathering, and within the public space.
The company has found a way to negotiate the "needle in the haystack"' problem, which faces anyone who tries to process and store such a large volume of data.
Spanning the entire range of public content, Dataminr provides its clients with alerts from accounts they would otherwise certainly be unaware of. Steven Schwartz, Dataminr's president of news, uses the recurring food scare at Mexican restaurant chain Chipotle as an example.
He said: "Our users in the finance space interested in tracking Chipotle as a company, or more broadly that sector, were notified very early when a random Chipotle consumer tweeted about his friend getting extremely ill after eating in a Chipotle restaurant.
"Using our algorithm and data science, we were able to surface that alert and provide those clients the first notification that Chipotle was continuing to have food-related illness problems.
"After an alert is sent, Dataminr continues to track emerging events like this, and we detected additional relevant information in the following minutes and hours that indeed revealed this to be a broader issue for Chipotle. Chipotle's stock subsequently dropped.
"How would you ever know to follow that particular individual, who probably only had a few hundred followers on Twitter, who may or may not have even used a hashtag or a stock ticker in the tweet? Our service solves that challenge."
Over time Dataminr has learned certain patterns around how information emerges when people first talk about things on Twitter, and how particular information surfaces. Dataminr is different from a lot of other companies in the social media space, which are analysing sentiment that can be used to make tradable decisions, for instance.
Schwartz said he often hears from people who have endeavoured to take a slice of the dataset and try to apply some sort of data science to it. "They end up getting fractional value and results. We love talking to them. They know the value and power of the data set, yet they have not been able to harness it themselves."
Newsweek is hosting a Structure Security event Sept. 26-27 in San Francisco.  Photo: Newsweek Media Group
Back in 2009, the social media landscape looked a lot different than it does today, notes Peter Bailey, chief strategy officer, Dataminr. "Twitter was scaling globally as a unique public platform where individuals around the world could Tweet about breaking events they were witnessing. Essentially our bet was that this behaviour would continue to flourish on Twitter and it did. We built a real-time system to detect this information by identifying unique data patterns that emerge on Twitter when breaking information is first published by Twitter users anywhere around the world.
"You never know who might eat tainted food at Chipotle, yet financial professionals who cover that sector need to know that information when it happens. Dataminr's system was built to understand how financially relevant events like food-borne illness outbreaks have emerged on Twitter in the past, and our system can detect such patterns in real-time, determine relevancy, and alert our clients. Over time, our machine has improved its ability to unearth and discover financially relevant information.
"We don't provide a sentiment score or market ourselves as a sentiment company. There are other companies who are trying to provide a social media sentiment score or indicator; those efforts are understandable and some people do it better than others.
"That said, we deliver context and information around financial topics that can help inform sentiment. There is an aspect to our service that allows for more proactive research. Users can analyse trends and apply their own expertise on whether they are repeatable, and whether that might be a bullish or bearish indicator for a stock."
A problem when trying to detect signals that can be traded on out of a sea of noisy social media data is the high probability of false positives.
Bailey said: "There are situations on Twitter that are rumours, false statements, and mis-statements. We have been able to study those patterns too and can recognise events which are forced or manipulated versus events that are more authentic. Still, our clients want to know about it if it may impact their portfolios so we are pushing differentiated, relevant content in real time.
Bailey said early on in beta testing, Dataminr's finance customers were asked how early they would want to receive information, taking into consideration that something may happen on Twitter that Dataminr generates an alert about, that may not ultimately turn out to be a globally impactful event.
"Our users told us they wanted to know about information as early as possible because markets can move off of all kinds of information. We have done a lot study of false information on Twitter and information that is clearly forced or manipulated."
Schwartz added: "I have never heard of a client that is angry with us because they made a decision and it went awry for them. I think everybody across all industries understands that whether it's social media or a more traditional source of information, people are looking for context; whether they make an immediate decision or wait for that second kind of validating point is up to them and their work flow."
This article was first published on Aug. 18, 2016.
ClearMacro CEO Mike Simcock, who has 25 years of professional asset management experience, says he started the company to help investment managers that were drowning in a deluge of data.
There has been a massive explosion in data sources, many offering the prospect of more timely information and more impactful signals.
But the big data revolution is actually compounding a problem that was already there, says Simcock. "If you are a chief information officer or a portfolio manager, not only have you got all of the traditional data sets to evaluate, but you have all of these new entrants coming in from satellites, Google trends, all different sources."
Advancements in technology are making analytical processes accessible beyond the world of hedge funds and CTAs; things like back testing tools and ways of aggregating information and visualising information in a really efficient way.
ClearMacro is building a "Wikipedia of investment strategies". It applies strategic, tactical and systematic asset allocation strategies, alongside a combination of select data sets providing real time macro insights, from text media and now-casting to cross border central bank liquidity statistics.
Simcock suggests a less is more approach to data. "We are not scraping the internet for data. We are doing aggregation in the sense that we are sourcing what we call the best quality data sets for the categories of information that we think decision makers care about holistically – as well as tools to back test and gain conviction over what works and what doesn't."
He said big data sets within the hedge fund space tend to be really focused on tactical, higher frequency, shorter term decision making, such as trying to gain an edge on payrolls or the next move in inflation, or company results.
Newsweek is hosting a Structure Security event Sept. 26-27 in San Francisco.  Photo: Newsweek Media Group
"The ugly truth is that tactical asset allocation is really hard. Many investors do harm to their portfolio, exposing themselves to active risk positions where the rationale for the position was not completely well understood, or the decision behind it was based on faulty data or a faulty process.
"After fees tactical asset allocation is a loser's game. But it's very hard for us as human beings to avoid doing it. The reality is the vast majority of investment managers do tactical asset allocation. They know it's hard to do, but often they choose to ignore that fact – because we all like to have a view."
However, the industry is very quickly going to move much further towards data driven automated research and investible strategies. "Funds or products that are essentially driven more and more by rules, and can be delivered in different ways, whether it's an ETF structure or simply connecting to interactive brokers.
The smart beta world lays even more pressure on firms actively searching out novel sources of alpha. Suddenly all sorts of owners of data are realising the power of their data sets.
"Whether it's about getting near the exchange or some of the newer data sets like the satellite feeds, it's mainly hedge funds that are going to be able to pay for it.
"We are completely agnostic about whether we use traditional data or new data. If we can demonstrate it adds some value then that can justify paying for it."
Data does not come cheap: all sorts of entities are offering to sell their data, from anywhere between £25K and £250K, and upwards.
"The value of data is in the eyes of the beholder," said Simcock. "Typically I think the way that data sales work is that everything is up for negotiation," he said.
"Some of the things we are finding is a lot of the classic data sets are delivering better performance when you build them into strategies. The message I would give to someone asking how should I deal with this landscape – embrace technologies that can make your job easier and take your time."
This article was originally published on Nov. 24, 2016.
When Rado Lipuš, CFA, founder and CEO of Neudata, started thinking about data scouting as an outsourced service for asset managers, he was worried he might not unearth enough new data sets. A year down the line and he is busy hiring more staff to deal with the amount of providers looking to monetise their data.
Big data, the term which became popular around 2011, has got bigger: big data, streaming data, open data, high frequency data, and alternative data are just some of the creatures inhabiting this new world. Very large quant funds will have in-house data strategy teams who will often contact companies directly and then evaluate if their data sets are of interest for research purposes and for back testing and so on. But the majority of smaller shops are likely to be in the process of building their capabilities and do not have these types of resources.
Lipuš said: "It takes a lot of resources to back test some of these data sets and a lot of these data sets are quite dirty and they need a lot work and need to be tagged, they need to have tickers, and structure. So there are only a few well-funded data-centric funds that have those in-house capabilities. For most of them, they are realising the importance and they are building teams and in-house capabilities."
The flipside is that many companies, which are not established data providers, are looking to monetise their data and don't yet have a network of clients. "We talk to hundreds of data providers, and these are not necessarily well-established, often just starting out maybe with zero clients, or maybe with one or two clients, sort of early days".
"It could be a data set which is a new one for an existing provider, and the nature of the data set is quite different or the use case is quite different. Often these companies struggle. They don't know how to go about it; how to reach the right audience, but also where the value of their data is. Often these data providers know very little about the asset management or quantitative investing world. So we fill in this knowledge gap between both sides."
Neudata does this by networking and looking for niche providers. Traditionally hedge funds go to conferences to connect with data providers for instance. However, these are typically more established data providers, which already have a strategy and already have sales people and will have done some PR, says Lipuš.
"We are less interested in those providers that are already at conferences," he said. "We are interested in newer and less known entrants - it could be a Fintech company or it could be a listed company who is thinking to monetise a lot of their data."
For example, Lipuš is talking to a large family office whose combined shipping, air freight and logistics businesses represent 10% of daily trade data across the globe. "This family office decided to monetise the data and so they put a team together and they combined all the data from all the different entities into one big data centre. Then they found a way to make it compliant and make it legal; sort of obfuscate the data but also aggregate it so you can't tie it back to one specific company.
Newsweek is hosting a Structure Security event Sept. 26-27 in San Francisco.  Photo: Newsweek Media Group
The family office in question made the data available in May this year and signed up four hedge fund clients, but once their network was exhausted they struggled to sign up any more, said Lipuš.
"Then they actually went out and tried to find people who can help them and so they found us. We see this happening quite a lot. Initially you can go to various funds which are very public about it and they have a sort of high profile. But it's hard to reach a wider audience.
"A lot of people know what we do now and it's just word of mouth. We work with various other providers who do a lot of data work for companies and often know of people who are trying to monetise the data, say in the App world. Many Apps are trying to monetise the data; Foursquare is a great example. They are very public about it. For them the monetisation of their data is very much selling the data to the investment world."
In terms of interesting data sets which his firm is scoping out, Lipuš said the form that certain transactional or receipt data takes in the US, where receipts get picked up electronically at various places, is being prepared in Europe and the UK by some large supermarket chains.
"We will see more and more of that happening; so it's not that new for people in this space in the US, but probably for Europe it is something which will be available for the first time. So we are quite excited about those data sets. We have asked a few clients and there is obviously a lot of interest in that."
Lipuš said another company he deals with in New York started out two years ago with no hedge fund clients; they were mainly serving corporate clients. "They were initially approached by one large quant fund in the US which paid them $5K-$10K per month for the data. Today they have 30 clients subscribed to the data set and it's become their main revenue stream - no sales people, no advertising, it's all word of mouth."
One commonly held notion is that when too many people find out about a certain data set it loses its alpha generating cachet. The reality is more nuanced says Lipuš.
"We know of one data set with 50 subscribers. However, the data set is used completely differently by everybody, from an intra-day to a six month time horizon strategy.
"Also a lot of these data sets are not like price data from Bloomberg. They have a lot of different fields and quite complex structures. You need to slice and dice that data and prepare it before you can actually have a time series which you can use for your analysis."
As mentioned above, Neudata is hiring for sales executives and data researchers, and would like to engage with any firms looking to monetise their data.
This article was originally published on Nov. 24, 2016
Obviously data-driven investment managers are not going to divulge the secret signals that form the basis of their alpha strategies. But when something is not part of your main business it can help to open source the code, which can then be improved.
These days open sourcing software is a trend that even large hedge funds such as AHL and AQR in the US taking part in.
Saeed Amen, CEO and founder of Cuemacro, is enthusiastic about open source within the big data arena. He has spent over a decade developing algorithmic trading strategies places like Lehman Brothers and Nomura, and a number of large hedge funds. He will joining a panel of other seasoned infrastructure experts at the forthcoming IBT Media Artificial Intelligence and Data Science in Capital Markets event.
Amen said: "From my perspective, working for a small business as opposed to a big bank, I have found it quite enlightening because you don't need to own infrastructure any more, you can just log onto Amazon Web Services; you can easily just get a server and it's something that's available very quickly to do.
"If I think back maybe 10 or 15 years ago, there simply weren't as many tools out there if wanted to do analysis of markets. Say for example you wanted to produce really nice charts to visualise your output, it was a lot more difficult to do that from a programmatic perspective – of course you have things like Excel. But these days there is so many different possibilities for visualisation that it means that I don't have to spend a lot of time actually coding that stuff up. It's already made my life a lot quicker and easier. So to some extent it's helping to level the playing field."
He concedes that hedge funds are always going to have an advantage because they can employ banks of extremely smart people to work at data science challenges full time. But to some extent the playing field is levelling.
"For obvious reasons, particular trading signals from hedge funds and similar organisations remain proprietary because part of their edge is in how they compute that.
"But at the same time I have observed that hedge funds have actually started to open source some parts of their software. Not the signal bit; kind of more the infrastructure-related parts to it."
Newsweek is hosting a Structure Security event Sept. 26-27 in San Francisco.  Photo: Newsweek Media Group
Examples of this are AHL which has open sourced some of its software relating to database storage for storing time series. There is also AQR in the US, which helped to kick-start "pandas", which helps you deal with time series, and which originally started as an internal project before the fund announced it would be open source.
"I think there are moves to do some open sourcing, but it's a very particular area where people also see the benefit of doing that. For example, if you open source something which is not the main part of your business, having other people look at your code is actually quite beneficial; they might improve it.
"It's a two way thing. But at the same time you can still retain what you feel is your competitive advantage and keep that in a closed source manner."
Amen spends a lot of time today looking for new and exciting data sources. He was ahead of the curve in this respect, starting to look at what could be called alternative data sources back in 2008. While he was at Lehman he wrote a paper on using Google search data for trading currencies – something which had not been considered by many people at that time.
Over the past few years he has developed this, doing a project with textual data analytics provider RavenPack, looking at how news data can be used to trade FX and bonds futures. More recently he did a project for the big financial website Investopedia.
"They [Investopedia] have got their own proprietary data set. So every time you look up something on Google, or Bing or whatever search engine you use, let's say you look up short selling, if that ends up taking you to a link to Investopedia, they then actually collect that data.
"So what they have done is actually created an index based upon anxiety terms like 'short selling', which could be related to investor panic. So basically they can set up a time series of specific search terms that have been used to get access to their website and they have aggregated those terms together in an index.
"My project was basically to try to see how I can extract value from that index for a trading perspective. It got a lot of interested feedback. I wrote a research paper on it."
But just looking at alternative datasets will not necessarily unlock any value, added Amen. A robust hypothesis is needed to begin with.
"Let's say I'm looking at the dollar – what sort of factors would move the dollar? From that I would actually expand and say if this certain factor moves the dollar, say interest rates, what potentially would be an influence on interest rates," he said.
This article was originally published on Nov. 29, 2016
When it comes to bringing intelligence to real-time engineering systems, the world of finance has been hindered by its legacy. Compared to things like self-driving cars, incumbent financial infrastructure takes a very long time to update, and is siloed into systems that cannot really talk to each other.
Paul Bilokon, founder of Thalesians, an organisation to promote deeper thinking and philosophy within finance, points out that many non-financial systems are using software techniques that are far ahead. But he also sees this changing thanks to improved infrastructure tools and advancements in machine learning within finance. Paul will be speaking about new infrastructure and showing off some machine learning libraries at the forthcoming IBT data science and capital markets event.
He said: "Look at all these techniques that people use outside finance. For example, Facebook, Google all these organisations, even the telecoms; there is a need to respond to change rapidly and update and maintain correct state internally. They are all using techniques and software methods which are way ahead of finance."
Bilokon believes that in the last couple of decades before the credit crunch, finance went in the wrong direction of increasing complexity in things like derivatives modelling, to the extent that people didn't really understand what was behind this complexity – which in some senses served the old banking world. "I think we are coming back to some sanity and understanding. We need to build systems that serve people," he said.
Bilokon, who built electronic trading platforms for Deutsche Bank, says what happened in derivatives there was huge over-complication in microscopic modelling. "Nobody really understood at the macro level how the economy based on derivatives really functioned because people just didn't have enough data. I was really shocked that most derivatives quants had never heard about backtesting. Much theoretical thinking is not supported by empirical work.
"There is simpler modelling and there is emphasis on robustness, and there is also emphasis on the operational aspects: how margining works, how credit valuation adjustment works.
"But if you were to look at a typical bank, from the practitioner's point of view, you would have disparate quant teams working on multiple libraries which are hugely complex. Then if you want one system to start talking to another that becomes very problematic."
Newsweek is hosting a Structure Security event Sept. 26-27 in San Francisco.  Photo: Newsweek Media Group
Bayesian Learning
Advances in optimisation are being driven by techniques like Bayesian Learning, complemented by technological advances in terms of infrastructure; projects like Apache Spark; kdb+ and q language.
Bayesian Learning has been described as a model for logic in the presence of uncertainty; a method which matches human intuition. To evaluate the probability of a hypothesis, the Bayesian probabilist specifies some prior probability, which is then updated to a posterior probability in the light of new, relevant data.
"This is software that maintains as its state degrees of belief as numbers. So that is what machine learning really is.
"These techniques are very powerful. Take defence, intelligence, even e-commerce. Amazon stocks and prepares your order days before you have actually ordered it. That's because they use Bayesian learning methods to update information on behavioural trends. Similarly, cameras can track objects using particle filtering methods and predict their future locations."
As far as financial technology is concerned, portfolio managers today use a combination of techniques. "People are using everything," said Bilokon. "As a portfolio manager I often used things like ordinary least squares, because the very first step in much data analysis would be to do a regression."
He added that a healthy degree of discretion is always needed because the system will only do fundamentally what you tell it to do. It can learn from data but it cannot get information out of nothing.
Certain insights come from a leftfield position beyond the context being modelled. To take an example from physics, an understanding of classical Newtonian mechanics is changed by the realisation that at certain times scales, or a certain size scales, quantum effects come into play.
"You couldn't learn this from the context," noted Bilokon. "This insight comes from somewhere else. So in some situations you need to update your thinking. This is very much more the case in human systems where there are massive interactions between different economies and so on.
"Whatever your context is, there will always be something that is bigger that is coming out of that context, that you haven't really thought about, that your system doesn't know about.
"So discretion, experience, intuition are very important. I do design for automation, but I'm not sort of naive enough to say, this is going to be doing everything on its own forever. Things will always be changing," he said.
This article was originally published on Dec. 1, 2016.
Within the silos of incumbent financial services, so-called fintech companies are good at picking off one thing only and doing it well.
This approach is also taken within data science, where a lot of the properly intelligent work is about understanding the domain (problem) and how best to use the information/data for the problem you have. In doing so, a fintech approach – collaboration, open-sourcing code – is helping to gradually change the culture of finance, even in some hitherto heavily guarded domains.
Dr Tristan Fletcher, research director, Thought Machine, said: "Without this specialisation and domain knowledge, it's very hard to rise above the noise. However, the algorithms themselves are often applicable in many areas or problems, and we are probably seeing decreasing specialisation here.
"Fintech lends itself particularly to specialisation because there are many well-packaged problems that need to be solved and can be clearly delineated – KYC, AML, credit checking etc. Having a competence in one area does not necessarily imply it in others, so it is harder to justify being a corporate fox vs a hedgehog."
Bonus-driven executives with a big bank or fund might be reluctant to share their secret sauce with people in their own company, never mind other corporates. In contrast, within the majority of small fintech startups, most employees will share (to varying degrees) in the ownership of the company, which will drive collaboration and the sharing of ideas internally. Furthermore, because of the relative balkanisation of a lot of the domains in the fintech ecosystem, there is much more incentive to co-operate than be competitive in the industry.
Fletcher said: "I think the main reasons for the disparity between fintech and investment banks and hedge funds is that a lot of the sources of revenue in the latter are closer to a zero-sum game. Profiting from pure speculation, for example, means that someone else must be losing money (assuming the counterparty isn't doing something more economically useful like actually mitigating risk).
"Furthermore, compensation in traditional financial institutions is much more closely linked to one's actual proximity to (often large) amounts of money. It's often a food chain with front office staff getting more than middle office, getting more than back office for example.
"Incentivisation through cash bonuses, which is gradually going out of fashion, encourages a very short-termist approach. Fintech incentivisation, being a relatively new and entrepreneurial sector, is much more about ownership in the company, which is clearly much longer term.
"Value in the fintech world is much more about the execution of an idea, whereas hedge funds, for example, are known to take a cloak and dagger approach to their intellectual property, in order to justify their management fees."
Newsweek is hosting a Structure Security event Sept. 26-27 in San Francisco.  Photo: Newsweek Media Group
However, some financial institutions and even secretive hedge funds are changing, sharing information and open sourcing some non-core infrastructure. A good example is the US hedge fund AQR, which open-sourced some of its infrastructure around time series storage and helped kickstart the pandas libraries community.
"I have heard of more and more private companies open sourcing non-core infrastructure and this makes a lot of sense: it adds credibility from a technology perspective to the organisation, gets lots of developers to critique and improve any code at very low cost and encourages the adoption of any software the company might be pushing out," said Fletcher.
As much as fintech is providing an exciting new lease of life for the financial services industry, there is a super-abundance of hype out there. Terms like data science, AI, machine learning, blockchain and so on have become extremely hyped terms these days. Attaching these words to your LinkedIn profile if you work in software will get your profile more views; framing a project in this way can get funding more easily.
"There are a lot of people claiming to be doing artificial intelligence and machine learning purely to get funding or generate publicity. In some cases this is being a little bit disingenuous, using machine learning when something simpler would be fine and in others it's just bare-faced lying. This obviously doesn't just apply to start-ups, " he added.
"The danger is that you get disappointments that blemish the entire field: perhaps some unscrupulous people use machine learning in a massively incorrect way and you get a well-publicised failure that tarnishes the reputation of the entire genre."
Fletcher said there are no easily recognisable conditions that prove some entity is genuinely doing this sort of work, but he would generally look to see whether some of the senior staff did at least have some strong academic credentials in AI or statistics.
The financial arena is characteristically conservative, and when it comes to using artificial intelligence, non-finacial use cases associated with the likes of Google DeepMind and IBM Watson (which are modelled around potentially replicating human behaviours) garner much more attention and would appear to be far ahead.
Fletcher added: "One of the problems with AI/deep learning is interpreterability; it's hard to work out what the black box is actually doing. And this is dangerous in applications which could impact the tightly-coupled financial markets or indeed people's bank accounts.
"A lot of the machine learning in markets is based around time-series analysis, and it is more typical to use different methods (less related to biological processes) here.
"There has been work using genetic algorithms, biologically inspired in a different way, on portfolio construction (for example bond portfolios by a product called Galapagos) and I'm sure many people used Neural Nets in the 80s but a lot of the ML methods used in markets nowadays are very far away from being biologically plausible in any way."
This article was first published on Dec. 7, 2016
Premium jeans retailer and designer True Religion Apparel Inc. said Wednesday it filed for creditor protection and reorganization under Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in a federal court in Delaware. The pricey jeans manufacturer joined several other retailers — Aeropostale and American Apparel — that have been unable to adapt to the large scale industrywide shift to online sales. True Religion also admitted their denims have slowly fallen out of style due to the rise of athletics wear.
The company said it won support from the majority of its top-tier secured creditors. Its owner TowerBrook Capital Partners has also reached a proposed deal with the lenders in a bid to cut the retailer’s debt by about three-quarters as it continues to operate, the Los Angeles Times reported.
“After a careful review, we are taking an important step to reduce our debt, reinvigorate True Religion’s iconic brand and position the company for future growth and success,” True Religion CEO John Ermatinger said in a statement, a report published Wednesday by the USA Today said. 
Read: Aéropostale (AROP) Files For Chapter 11 Bankruptcy Protection
Chapter 11, also frequently referred as the “reorganization chapter” of the bankruptcy code, permits a debtor to propose a plan of reorganization to keep their failing business alive and pay creditors over a period of time. According to the bankruptcy law, filing a Chapter 11 petition grants “a debtor what is known as an automatic stay from the enforcement actions of creditors. This precludes creditors from continuing collection efforts, from bringing a lawsuit, or from filing liens against property or foreclosing on property.”
A Chapter 11 debtor is allowed to file a plan of reorganization for a time period of 120 days and solicit the plan for a period of 180 days. A debtor is permitted to seek an extension to the time period for a legitimate cause recognized by the court; or else if the given time period lapses, any creditor or party in interest can structure a plan for the debtor. It is mostly used by businesses, but it can also be used by individuals, who have an income greater than what is allowed by the Chapter 7 means tests.
The means test is conducted to check if the individual has the “means to pay” for at least some of their debts before they are officially discharged into bankruptcy. Individuals also benefit from Chapter 11 as they are permitted to keep assets beyond the “statutory exemptions available under Chapter 7 and Chapter 13.”
Read: US Retailer Sports Authority Files For Bankruptcy Under Chapter 11
TowerBrook Capital Partners, the Manhattan Beach-based firm and owner of True Religion, employs nearly 1,900 people and sells its jeans and other clothing apparel through 140 stores along with the True Religion and Last Stitch brand names.
Founded in 2002, True Religion was publicly held until it became a private entity in 2013 after being acquired by TowerBrook for $835 million. In 2013, the retailer, however, “began experiencing declining sales caused by the general trend of consumers [moving] away from traditional retail to online shopping,” Dalibor Snyder, True Religion’s Chief Financial Officer, said in the court filing in the federal court in Delaware, where the company filed the Chapter 11 petition Wednesday, the LA Times reported.  The retailer had to shut  20 of its stores to cut down on the costs in 2016. 
The reorganization plan and the proposed deal with lenders will cut down the company’s debt by an amount over $350 million, according to its statement, Fortune reported.
Over 2.7 billion people, or 40 percent of the world’s population, don’t have enough of it, and there are dire predictions that looming shortages and dwindling supply will lead to another war at the global scale. And while water covers 70 percent of Earth’s surface, precious little of it is fresh water that we consume for drinking, and use for bathing and irrigating crops.
According to estimates by the World Wildlife Fund, given the current consumption rate of fresh water, about two-thirds of the global population could face water shortages by 2025. As things stand, less than 3 percent of the world’s total water is fresh water, of which only a third is available for use, the rest being frozen in glaciers and such. And even as the population grows, the amount of fresh water dwindles further all the time.
Read: EPA Chief Scott Pruitt Wants To Do Away With The Clean Water Rule
A study from March, titled “Salting our freshwater lakes,” by researchers from the United States, Canada and Argentina found that many fresh water lakes in the U.S. are at risk of becoming saltier than the threshold for aquatic life in the next 50 years. Most of it is due to runoff of road salt into water bodies, but other human activity too can exacerbate the problem. The Water Project, a New Hampshire-based nonprofit, predicts Lake Mead in Arizona could be dry by 2021, and that the “crisis may soon spread into other areas of the U.S. when local waterways can no longer replenish their resources to meet our growing demand.”
A farmer stands with her ox beside a dry canal in Nakhonsawan province, north of Bangkok, Jan. 23, 2016. Photo: Reuters/Chaiwat Subprasom
Since salty water is in over-abundance on the planet, a lot of research has gone into converting sea water into potable water. And while the process is simple and inexpensive at a small scale, it has not been a practical solution to solve the acute shortages that affect some places on Earth. Kevin Wattier, a former manager of the water department in Long Beach, California, told Voice of America in October 2015: “It would cost at least twice or three times as much to desalinate seawater as it would cost to buy imported water. You will increase your global carbon footprint when you go to seawater [desalination].”
However, technology has come some way since. Scientists at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology built a device, using a special material produced at the University of California, Berkeley, earlier this year that uses solar energy to draw water out of air, even when the air is dry. And on June 19, researchers from Rice University in Houston, Texas, and Yale University in New Haven, Connecticut, announced they had created a membrane that uses solar energy and a nanoparticle-membrane to turn salt water into fresh water.
In a paper published in the journal, Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, the researchers describe the “desalination system, which uses a combination of membrane distillation technology and light-harvesting nanophotonics.” The resulting device is a compact unit that can be used in off-grid locations, and can be scaled up to provide water for large communities as well.
In conventional membrane distillation (top), hot saltwater is flowed across one side of a porous membrane and cold freshwater is flowed across the other. Water vapor is naturally drawn through the membrane from the hot to the cold side. In NEWT’s “nanotechnology-enabled solar membrane distillation,” or NESMD (bottom), a porous layer of sunlight-activated carbon black nanoparticles acts as the heating element for the process. Photo: Pratiksha Dongare/Rice University
“Direct solar desalination could be a game changer for some of the estimated 1 billion people who lack access to clean drinking water. This off-grid technology is capable of providing sufficient clean water for family use in a compact footprint, and it can be scaled up to provide water for larger communities,” Rice scientist and water treatment expert Qilin Li, a corresponding author on the study, said in a statement.
Read: Meltwater Network On Antarctica Is Bigger Than Previously Thought
While scientific research makes progress, private enterprise is also pitching in. IDE Technologies, based in Israel, manufactures and operates desalination and industrial water treatment plants, and is behind the world’s largest desalination plant in Sorek, Israel. Miriam Faigon, vice president and chief technology officer of assets at the company, explained in a statement to International Business Times how IDE Technologies keeps the costs down when operating a plant based on thermal desalination.
“The thermal desalination process uses energy to evaporate water and subsequently condense it again. When there is waste heat or sufficient electricity available, as is often the case with refineries and power plants, thermal desalination is an efficient and viable solution,” she said.
The company’s technology is suitable for extracting pure water from various types of salty water, including seawater, brine and brackish water.
A view shows the Baikal Lake with the Zamogoy Island from the Olkhon Island, Eastern Siberia, Russia, Sept. 9, 2016. Photo: Reuters/Ilya Naymushin
Of all the fresh water on Earth, over 60 percent is locked up in the ice sheets of Antarctica. When they calve — one of the effects of a warming planet — precious fresh water mixes into the surrounding sea. Much of the rest of the fresh water is underground or moisture in soil, with only about 3 percent available as surface water. Lake Baikal in Russia is the single largest surface fresh water body in the world, accounting for 22 percent of the total. About 29 percent is found in the African Great Lakes and another 21 percent in the North American Great Lakes.
Machine learning surveillance techniques used to spot unfair or collusive activity at firms have advanced far beyond searching lists for risky words, and now make myriad connections based on a wide range of behaviour and interactions.
Tim Estes, CEO, Digital Reasoning, which provides advanced compliance tools of this sort, says that to trick the surveillance software would mean avoiding every system – email, chat rooms etc – and not doing anything behaviourally that would create a signal either.
"If you think about it, it's very hard to be someone that you are not all the time consistently. We have a word for those people – they are called sociopaths," said Estes.
Digital Reasoning is a cognitive computing company focused on applications that leverage human communication data. Beyond the finance sector, where they work with Goldman Sachs and NASDAQ, the company provides large scale health service applications and services some prestigious government contracts (Digital Reasoning runs the largest anti-child sex trafficking system in terms of tools for law enforcement in the US). Banking and finance is one of its fastest growing areas, particularly in light of recent price fixing scandals orchestrated between traders at banks and financial institutions.
Digital Reasoning has honed its technology in the wake of things like the forex scandal uncovered in 2013, where senior currency traders operated in secretive groups and in some cases used coded terminology to carry out manipulation in chat rooms.
Estes said: "FX scandal was a classic case of people thinking that because they were using terminology and very domain specific language that it can't be caught."
In the past this might have been true; legacy surveillance systems tend to rely on lexicons of words that could flag up risk. This can be circumvented by coded terminology, for instance. However, a machine learning system provided with appropriate examples and will start to find patterns, the same way a human would.
"A human learns because they recognise patterns over time," says Estes. "They recognise that the word 'fix' looks a lot like the string f1x; and so just because someone uses f1x in a chat to try to dodge a filter that uses the actual string 'fix', it's not enough anymore, because a computer can see that difference."
"It doesn't mean the technology is as smart as a human. It does mean in some ways that there are patterns human expertise can teach it; and that it can then scale and do something no human can do, which is read one-10m emails a day going through a bank."
Estes is reluctant to talk in too much detail about the nuts and bolts of surveillance, and the ways to potentially make nefarious behaviour more challenging to spot. The short of it is that people have patterns around what they say, where they move, who they interact with, the time they do it, and how they access certain pieces of data.
Newsweek is hosting a Structure Security event Sept. 26-27 in San Francisco.  Photo: Newsweek Media Group
"Those are unavoidable pieces, they really are. So the question is what pieces show what signs," he said.
Surely the most obvious way to avoid detection would be to communicate on a personal device, possibly outside the office. However, Estes points out that usually the key data needed to act on are locked into these systems. "You can have these various pieces of data in history that are in a system, but you have to stay in that system, like it or not, to actually use it.
"You may have something you perceive as an attachment and there are maybe four ways that you can actually get it moved from an internal system – and of course most of those ways have observations on them."
Estes explained that Digital Reasoning uses unsupervised machine learning, an assembly of algorithms that cluster and group things from large amounts of data. The machine makes subtle connections, for instance, to recognise that a person's name in one email is the same person being referenced in another mail, even though they are not the recipient or sender. A map of interactions is enriched by an understanding of the context of what's being said. This collated information can then be presented in an easily accessible parcel.
"Humans resolve things based on context and the technology is doing the same thing. It's about accumulating knowledge and evidence in order to build connections and insights and make them more easily accessible to human beings."
"Say I just want to pull up everything about this person who is on my trading floor because they sent this message that really looks problematic – have they conducted any other suspicious activity, have they talked to others, etc.. The pivot from warning to investigation is seamless."
From the perspective of the regulator, Estes said his firm is allowing the bar to be raised. He said everyone knows lexicons and lists of words are not good enough.
"These are terrible systems and have ridiculous amounts of false positives which use up tons of resources and spending for very little yield.
"Feedback from our customers is that the true positive divided by the false positive rate on those kinds of systems flows around 99% – so less than one out of 100 generally is actually a really good hit. By instead leveraging cognitive computing, these same customers are instead reducing their false positive rate by 50-60% and ensuring that the time they do spend investigating directly protects the business."
This article was originally published on Dec. 16, 2016
A commonly held view of hedge funds is of secretive organisations that jealously guard the tools that make them money. Contrary to this is the trend among certain firms to open source their software and invite collaboration from the developer community.
Firms that have blazed a trail in the open sourcing of this sort of technology are the likes of AQR, which kick-started the Pandas libraries project, and Man AHL, which has open-sourced its Arctic data storage system.
Arctic powers Man AHL's vast financial market data store and is built on top of the open-source no-SQL database MongoDB. The Arctic codebase was made available on GitHub back in 2015.
Gary Collier, Co-CTO of Man AHL, holds a Masters in Theoretical Physics from Cambridge and has been a technology hobbyist since the age of 11. He started building software commercially at age 21, and has been in a technology management role for the past few years at Man AHL, which has about 60 technologists. These technologists cover a range of front office duties which include data capture and distribution platforms, continual evolution of Man AHL's in-house Python quantitative research platform, and the production trading platform which trades silently and automatically 24 hours a day. In addition to building the tools and platform, around half of the technology team work directly alongside the quantitative researchers on model development.
Collier remembers the days when there was a lot suspicion from corporates about even using open source software. But over time there has been a rising tide of open source code consumption and it's become vital to engage with the developer community in this way – not least because an open source ethos attracts the brightest developer talent to the fund.
"Open sourcing things is really one way of raising a virtual flag above the office which is saying, the ideals that you as a brilliant developer hold dear – community engagement, openness, collaboration - are also ideals that our business holds dear," said Collier.
"In contrast to some in the quant trading space, internally Man AHL is somewhat different. It's not an organisation comprised of secretive silos, where an individual won't talk to the individual next to them for fear of giving away their secret sauce.
"So the external presentation that we are giving with community engagement and openness also reflects the internals of Man AHL where the environment is highly collaborative and research is shared among members of the team, with technologists and quantitative researchers working together on the same code base."
Newsweek is hosting a Structure Security event Sept. 26-27 in San Francisco.  Photo: Newsweek Media Group
The American data scientist Wes McKinney pioneered open sourcing of hedge fund software at AQR Capital Management. This became the Pandas package for data analysis in the Python programming language.
"Wes has been very influential with his Pandas library and he has been really a pillar figure in the Python data science community," said Collier. "And if we take a few steps back, we see a whole ecosystem of open source databases, messaging systems, analytics libraries, operating systems – even that's just a very small part of the tidal wave of progression of open source as a whole."
While Pandas is all about handling frames of data in Python, Arctic is a storage layer designed to persist that type of data very efficiently. "It allows people who want to obtain that type of data and perhaps perform parallel computation across a cluster, a very efficient means for them to extract that and perform analysis, run back-tests, risk models etc," said Collier.
"Just like the apps that we see on our phones nowadays and the websites we visit, complex data analysis systems are often constructed by taking together small, high quality libraries that do a particular thing and do it well, and joining them up in innovative ways.
"So if you think about the kind of functionality that Pandas gives you and the functionality that Arctic gives you, and then you say okay, we are going to layer Arctic on top of MongoDB, which is – an open source database.
"Pandas on its own gives you the ability to crunch frames of data to perform analysis on them, but it's not designed as a means of storing, say, 20 years' worth of tick data that correspond to maybe two trillion data points.
"So that's three freely available things there that immediately bootstrap you to do data science and analysis work that would be completely unthinkable a few years ago; you would be spending a lot of money on proprietary closed-source packages."
This article was originally published on Jan. 13, 2017
Alternative loans hedge fund LendingRobot combines robo-advice with blockchain technology to make the fund fully transparent to investors. The investment platform also uses the cloud and offers a dollop of machine learning to enhance returns.
The Seattle-based hedge fund will only invest in peer to peer loans: Lending Club, Sofi, Funding Circle and the like, allowing investors exposure to thousands of loans at once across consumer credit, small business loans, and even real estate loans. For investors, the returns in investing in these loans are extremely stable income-generating assets (people tend to pay them back), noted a spokesman.
Historical returns on peer lending for investors average around 7%, while returns using LendingRobot's current robo-advisor product have averaged around 9%, said a statement.
Blockchain is being eyed by the asset management industry because it can be used to set the parameters of an investment strategy which then becomes fully transparent, with the added bonus of reduced fees. Hedge funds typically charge management fees of 2% plus 20% of performance, plus obscure or unlimited fund expenses, which makes their expense ratio disproportionate to fixed income returns. LendingRobot Series charges 1.00% of assets under management, and caps fund expenses at 0.59%.
Emmanuel Marot, CEO of LendingRobot, said: "Alternative lending proved to return excellent performance and with new origination platforms growing quickly, comes the opportunity to diversify further. But fragmentation makes investing even more complex for individual investors.
Newsweek is hosting a Structure Security event Sept. 26-27 in San Francisco.  Photo: Newsweek Media Group
"Turmoil within the past twelve months among some of the largest origination platforms showed that 'platform risk' is real, and left many clients increasingly worried about investing only in unsecured consumer loans despite the fact that the returns have remained steady.
"All investors would be well served by diversifying into multiple marketplaces, but that process is tedious, complicated, and requires a high degree of domain expertise to accomplish correctly. That's why we've created LendingRobot Series."
He said the fund manages investments across four different Series, with target maturity going from 20 to 36 months, and net returns up to 9.66%. Investor's money is converted in units of ownership in these Series that are issued on a weekly basis. By default, loans payments keep being re-invested and the units value increases.
LendingRobot publishes every week a detailed ledger of its holdings, down to the value and individual payments made by each note, and a "hash code" signature of the ledger is integrated in the subsequent versions as well as notarised in Ethereum's blockchain to ensure the data is tamper-proof.
This article was first published on Jan. 26, 2017
The UK is seen as a hotbed of technology talent which the giants of Silicon Valley are fighting to recruit. Areas where the UK is ranked highest include artificial intelligence and data science coming out of leading universities, and the financial technology community, engendered by the marriage of fintech startups and London's financial expertise.
On the AI side, this hunt for talent was kicked off in 2014 by Google's acquisition of DeepMind, a relatively small team from Imperial College, for $400m. This was followed by Apple buying Cambridge-based natural language processing firm VocalIQ and more recently Twitter bought video AI startup Magic Pony.
This is something of double edged sword, notes Hazel Moore, chairman and co-founder of FirstCapital, an investment bank based in London and Silicon Valley. Such intense interest provides a clear route to value for startups, but it does mean our home-grown talent is being poached by Silicon Valley. Moore, who was recently awarded an OBE for services to entrepreneurship and innovation and also serves on the board of Innovate UK, has closely observed this trend.
She said: "You've got these big tech companies all coming and hunting around in the UK for people. Artificial intelligence people are massively in demand and in the UK; our academic institutions are churning out people that are really smart and talented.
"Now, with my Innovate Finance hat on – as opposed to my FirstCapital hat – that's a bit of a risk, because what we want to do is develop businesses in the UK. If the big technology firms come in and poach all of our talent, we lose the opportunity to build that value here in the UK.
"But with my FirstCapital hat on I'm like, well if they are the guys that are going to pay the most money, they are going to win."
FirstCapital provides M&A and private equity investment advice around high-growth technology firms, with deals ranging from roughly $50m to $500m. The next crop of hot UK technology companies will be the ones FirstCapital is advising on.
Moore said there is currently a "phenomenal war" for talent in Silicon Valley and massive interest from the big technology companies to come and buy businesses in the UK and Europe more generally.
"For the shareholders and founders of businesses here, you have got to look at that as an attractive route to realising value," she said.
From a FirstCapital perspective Moore said many of these companies are in the early curve adoption stage and therefore more of a venture capital opportunity, as opposed to PE. "It's quite binary in some respects. High risk going after new markets with potentially massive opportunities, but not yet full proven.
"My role is to make sure that I'm aware of the things that are coming up and getting traction and really of interest to broader investment community. I see that rate of progress and rate of growth is amazing actually."
Another area of finance that has literally capitalised on the UK's academic institutions is the intersection of data science and quantitative trading, particularly within the world of hedge funds and pro-active asset managers. These sorts of companies are famous for hiring physicists and graduates with a science background and turning them into data scientists focused on investing.
However, what could be called the fintech approach is also invigorating this space, and there have also been some well-publicised open source projects coming out of hedge funds like Man AHL and AQR Capital.
"Hedge funds have been employing technology people for a long while to develop their algorithms and their trading strategies, and recruiting engineering talent from UK universities.
"While that will continue, it's an incredibly high cost model. I think increasingly people are looking ways to buy in services that add value that don't necessary have to go on the payroll. That's the opportunity for some of the startups."
Moore said London's fintech scene is unique in being able to meet these requirements, a combination of the City, academia and the large customer base that exists here.
"There is a huge base of people who understand financial services and the problems and issues with financial services; you need a lot of sector expertise to identify the opportunities that are being addressed by startups.
"There are also a massive number of potential customers. Then there is also a lot of venture capital money in London; a lot of accelerators and people that understand how to build this and have done so successfully.
"I know most of us think about Silicon Valley as being the centre of entrepreneur and technology activity. While to some extent that is true, Silicon Valley is not a financial centre and does not have the customers and does not have the sector capability and expertise that we have in London."
This article was first published on Jan. 31, 2017
There are many different components and systems for solving big data problems and one of the big challenges is interoperability. There can be high costs associated with plugging components together to transfer data between one system and another.
The Apache Arrow project is good example of how to address issues of cost, speed and flexibility associated with interoperability. It's a collaboration of a dozen or so big data projects that decided to create a piece of technology enabling them to plug their systems together more efficiently, move data around very fast and process it in memory without a great deal of conversion.
Someone who is passionate about projects like this is Wes McKinney, the venerated data scientist who started the Pandas open source project while at hedge fund AQR Capital Management. McKinney has spent the last seven years working in the Python open source ecosystem, latterly working for Cloudera, building integrations between the Python open source data science stack and the big data Hadoop ecosystem.
He returned to the quantitative trading world last year as a software engineer at Two Sigma Investments. He will be giving a presentation at Newsweek's forthcoming Data Science Capital Markets event in London.
McKinney said disparate data management systems spend 80-90% of the time converting between one format and another. "Each system proverbially speaks a different language, so this [Apache Arrow] establishes a kind of efficient lingua franca for data that we can use to make the whole greater than the sum of its parts."
Last year, as part of the Apache Arrow project, McKinney worked with Hadley Wickham, a well-known developer in the R community. Together they built a small file format called Feather, an interoperable high speed data storage format for R and Python which has become very popular in both communities.
"You find that many data scientists are using both R and Python in their work and so they are able to sort of break down that wall and be able to transition more fluidly between the environments," said McKinney.
"There are certain tasks where R is a stronger tool, particularly in data visualisation and statistics, and there are certain tasks where Python is the stronger tool, in particular software engineering and machine learning. To be able to build a hybrid analysis environment where you can easily move back and forth is very useful."
This technology is also very relevant in the Apache Spark project, which features Python and R programming interfaces. In general they can be slower than the native Scala language interfaces. "You can use Spark with Python and R but you pay a performance penalty due to inefficient data transfer," said McKinney.
This important work is being carried on in an open source capacity at Two Sigma, which has been collaborating with IBM and some of the Spark developers on building a better, tighter integration between Python and Apache Spark. Apache Arrow has been the data interoperability technology to build the bridge – something McKinney is speaking about at theSpark Summit in Boston.
Two Sigma employs a large research staff and requires a first-class engineering team to drive innovation on its data science platform. Given the rapid pace of innovation in recent years, the firm has chosen to leverage the best of what's available in the open source technology stack. For example, Two Sigma has built an open source project called Flint, which is a scaleable time series analytics package for Spark.
McKinney said: "That's filling a major need in the ecosystem. Spark excels on traditional SQL-type relational data and ETL (extract, transform, load) workloads; there's less of a strong tool for time series data and we work with a great deal of time series data, so that's one area where we are investing. We believe that participating in open source is the right way to go about that. We have also gotten involved in the Python Pandas project."
From his experience working on Pandas, McKinney says he learned lots of valuable things from industry users, who would bring to the table the real world problems they encounter. The daily grind of data cleaning may not seem too sexy, but it has helped define new features to be added to the project.
"You would be amazed at the number of different data input formats that you see in the wild; over the course of years we have had to evolve the tools in Pandas to be able to accommodate the needs of hundreds of thousands of users around the world," he said.
This article was originally published on Feb. 3, 2017
As President Donald Trump travels to Poland, lost court documents from a case Trump settled about the use of undocumented Polish workers have been discovered, according to the New York Daily News Wednesday.
During the 1980 demolition of the building where Trump Tower now sits on Fifth Avenue, Trump allegedly employed undocumented workers. A lawsuit was filed in 1983 where union members sued a union boss, Trump and his contractor for cheating the union by hiring undocumented immigrants called “The Polish Brigade,” according to Politifact.
READ: Trump vs. Media: Americans Trust News Outlets More Than The President, Poll Finds
The Polish employees were off the books, worked grueling hours, promised low pay and in many cases stiffed of any pay, Time reported last year. After a 1991 trial, a federal judge ruled that the Trump Organization and its construction partners had indeed conspired to keep money out of union coffers to the tune of at least $325,000 plus interest, which meant about $4 million was at stake, the New York Times reported in 1998. The case was appealed by both sides and ordered retried. The case was settled in 1999 by both sides and court documents were ordered sealed.
“It has been resolved on terms agreeable to both sides,” Wendy Sloan, the lawyer for the union side, told the New York Daily News at the time.
U.S. President Donald Trump says something to reporters as he departs for travel to Poland and the upcoming G-20 summit in Germany, from the South Lawn of the White House in Washington, U.S., July 5, 2017.  Photo: Jonathan Ernst/REUTERS
Trump has long maintained that he didn’t know that the undocumented immigrants had been used on the site. Trump also railed against “illegal immigrants” throughout his time as president.
Time Magazine and the Reporters Committee for Freedom of the Press sought the paperwork detailing the terms of the settlement, and in their search, an appeals court overturned an order keeping the information secret. However, the transcript and brief from the lawsuit were thought to have been destroyed by the court in keeping with their retention policies — that is, until Sloan resurfaced them from her personal records last week.
READ: Twitter Reacts To Woman Who Cleaned Up Donald Trump's Walk Of Fame Star With Viral Memes
A lower judge must officially unseal the records now, and then they can be made public.
“I hire a contractor. The contractor then hires the subcontractor,” said Trump during a presidential debate last year when the issue was brought up. “They have people. I don't know. I don't remember, that was so many years ago, 35 years ago.”
Technology-driven hedge fund manager Winton has named its second cohort from the Winton Labs accelerator, which will pitch at a Demo Day on 9 February. The second Winton Labs programme has been run in collaboration with The Alan Turing Institute, whose academics have provided the startups with technical mentorship.
Unlike other accelerators, Winton takes no equity from the companies who participate in the programme, instead offering each selected business a cash injection to help further their development, said a statement.
The programme involves companies meeting potential customers and over 70 leading industry experts including, investors, advisors and members of Winton's network. It culminates with a demo day where participants are invited to present their companies to attendees, comprising some of Europe's best-known investors.
Matt Ridley from Winton Ventures said: "London is home to world-class academics, start-ups, data scientists and innovators. By bringing these ingredients together into an organised acceleration programme, Winton Labs is helping entrepreneurs to build new, value-generating companies that are able to compete on a global scale."
Sir Alan Wilson FBA FRSE, chief executive of The Alan Turing Institute, added: "The SME landscape is a hotbed of innovation when it comes to algorithms, big data and artificial intelligence. As the national centre for data science, part of our role is to nurture the next generation of data science leaders and entrepreneurs and it is fantastic to see this work coming to life through the collaboration with Winton Labs. I look forward to seeing what these five start-ups go on to achieve, and I would like to thank my colleagues at The Alan Turing Institute for offering their support and expert advice throughout the process."
Startups from Winton Labs' first cohort have gone on to enjoy considerable enjoyed success. IntelligentX, a machine learning application for making AI beer, is currently raising a seed round of funding in New York and Cognism closed a $500K seed round in January 2017 from investors including FINTECH Circle and South Central Ventures. Meanwhile CheckRecipient, which received a £300K investment from Winton in July 2016, has now signed up its first FTSE 100 customer.
Tim Sadler, co-founder & CEO at CheckRecipient said: "Since being part of the first Winton Labs cohort in 2016, the Winton team have continued to offer invaluable advice which has helped us to more than double in size. We have increased our client base by over 300% and have won a number of awards and accolades including being named 'Best UK Security Startup' by WIRED UK and 'Best Machine Intelligence Startup' by LegalGeek."
The second cohort of Winton Labs are:
Cognitiv+, an artificial intelligence platform that automates knowledge extraction from legal data, which recently won a major grant with InnovateUK on the open-programme. Since starting on Winton Labs they have started five pilots in Q1 2017 alone. They have also been named Export Champion as part of the CommonwealthFirst programme.
SMAP Energy, who use energy consumption data collected via smart meters to innovate the energy sector, now manages data from 30,000 smart meters in Japan and will be starting engagement with a Middle Eastern client in March. The team launched AIswitch recently, a free smart energy switching service for UK customers, while co-founder Yohei Kiguchi was named in the Forbes 30 Under 30 Europe list.
Warwick Analytics, who automate predictive analytics even with heterogeneous data, have seen strong commercial progress with key enterprise companies, and will be moving from Winton Labs to the IAG accelerator: Hangar 51. Warwick have recently opened their US office, and current tech development will see a new release in Spark in under a month.
Terrabotics: Transform terabytes of satellite and aerial imagery into very high precision true 3D terrain data to model the Earth. This period of acceleration has brought in clients including a major mining company, a private equity fund and an investment research firm, as well as increasing business with existing customers in global oil & gas.
Alterest, a cloud platform providing institutional debt investors an efficient way to access the growing non-bank lending market, have seen further product developments, expansion of the team, and officially signed up institutional investors as engagement clients during the programme.
This article was originally published on Feb. 7, 2017
Much of the current machine learning revolution originated around applications like computer vision that have nothing to do with finance. It's an interesting question, the extent to which the latest artificial intelligence and deep learning techniques can crossover into finance.
Financial data modelling is beset by a low signal to noise ratio, whereas data used to teach a computer to identify a picture of a cat, for example, is unambiguous. The financial universe is a non-stationary environment with variable patterns of correlation between stocks, bonds and other instruments. Not least, the task in hand is essentially about predicting things that haven't happened yet.
For nearly 30 years now, UK hedge fund manager Man AHL has been trawling through enormous historical datasets trying to understand what is predictable and what's just noise. Today the company employs a team from a diverse range of scientific backgrounds and uses a combination of data science and machine learning techniques to manage significant amounts of client money.
Anthony Ledford, Man AHL's chief scientist, emphasises the importance of diversity in all things and knows never to have too much faith in any one prediction model.
Ledford said: "In that kind of data environment, where the 'grand truth' is changing, you can't just have a model that expects some static view, like learning the characteristics of a cat.
"Also, it's easy to look at historical data and to decompose it and say this is related to that, and do that retrospectively. But if you've actually got to make a snapshot based on the data you've got today and understand what predictability there is about what happens next, that is a much harder problem."
Ledford believes it's important to convey to people that this is not some magic black box, where nobody can understand what's going on inside.
"I think that's an unacceptable way of thinking of these things. You absolutely have to be able to understand how the algorithms are behaving; what they are actually learning and articulate that in ways that people can have some feeling for. In the past, there wasn't very much work done on this, whereas a lot of academic work now is looking specifically at the interpretability of these machine learning systems and I think that's a very good thing," he said.
Some financial data scientists also see as problematic the complexity of certain types of financial models constructed in the past couple of decades. Indeed, quantitative finance can be broadly divided into two categories: those who like writing down equations for how the world should behave, and those who look at data and try to detect patterns of behaviour. The former can come up with elegant formulas for pricing things, but the assumptions behind these equations may not hold robustly in the real world.
"You can end up with market shocks that are much larger than the assumptions of the underlying probability distributions," said Ledford. "It's because of having too much faith in your model. We realise this at Man AHL. If you ask me how much faith do I have in any particular model or being able to predict an individual price of a financial instrument, well I have very little faith in it. It's slightly more than a coin flip.
"The point is to understand the uncertainty and build the portfolio in a rational way. You would never bet the house on a very concentrated trade; you have to diversify by trading hundreds of individual instruments and you have to trade them for a long period of time.
"In every single instrument that we are trading, for every single trade that we put on, we seek to have a tiny edge that is working in our favour. The way you can turn that into something that makes sense from an investment point of view, is to distil those tiny statistical edges down into something that, at the portfolio level, makes sense as an investment product," he said.
A toolbox for learning
Starting out with data rather than a hypothesis is how machine learning works. It could be described as a toolbox for learning from data where you don't pre-define the shape of the model. The software has to try and fathom that out by itself, so an order of magnitude more intelligence or complexity is involved compared to standard models.
This approach is enhanced by Bayesian methodology, which is based on a theorem that updates belief probabilities as more evidence or information becomes available. Man AHL uses a branch of machine learning called Bayesian nonparametrics: methods that can determine an appropriate model complexity directly from data.
Ledford said: "In the Bayesian area, your numerical belief in the parameters updates as the data comes in. Now, there is a very genuine question as to whether you need to update those beliefs as every single data point comes in, or can you update them for example on a calendar period basis – once a month or once a year, or whatever. I could follow the full Bayesian prescription and have all these things update as every single new data point comes in, but it's important to assess whether the impact of updating at that rate is sufficient to be worth that computational effort?"
Summing up, Ledford said understanding the uncertainly of what you are doing is probably even more important than understanding the alpha generation side. Risk has to be managed every day; you can take too little risk or you take too much risk.
"It's tempting to have an idealised view of the world where everything is stationary and you get your risk right and then your returns per day come in steadily. But in reality you tend to see that the results of strategies arise in bursts; they don't come in uniformly. There are periods when it works and there are periods when it doesn't work.
"You can try and build systems that turn on when they see these things happening and turn off when they don't. That's quite hard to do. What you find easier to do is actually build systems that are capable of performing well when the effect they are trying to capture is there; and when it's not there, they are very lean in terms of the risk they take and amount of trading they do.
"It's really about understanding the nature of this effect we are trying to capture. And that goes right the way through from the first things we have been doing in the traditional momentum and carry space to our machine learning systems."
(Anthony Ledford is a speaker at Newsweek's forthcoming Data Science and Capital Markets event in London 1,2 March.)
This article originally appeared on Feb. 9, 2017
Quandl, which supplies financial, economic and alternative data to hedge funds, asset managers, and investment banks, has integrated ICE Data Services' US Treasury evaluated pricing and reference data.
ICE Data Services is a part of Intercontinental Exchange, a leading operator of global exchanges and clearing houses and provider of data and listings services. The comprehensive Treasury database includes prices, yields, derived metrics and detailed metadata for Treasury bills, bonds and notes. Through Quandl, the database is available in a variety of formats, including via API or via libraries for Excel, R, Python and other tools, said a statement.
Quandl chief executive Tammer Kamel said: "Treasury data is an essential part of a quant's financial toolkit, and it's never been this easy to access it — until now. We want to make life as seamless as possible for data users, and working with ICE Data Services brings us one step closer."
Over time, Quandl and ICE Data Services intend to expand this offering to include data on agency bonds, corporate bonds, mortgage-backed securities, equities, mutual funds, options and more. The parties also plan to bring data on EMEA and Asia-Pac securities to Quandl.com.
This article was first published on Feb. 14, 2017
The United States lifted a ban Wednesday that required laptops and other electronic devices to be put in the luggage when flying on Emirates Airlines and Turkish Airlines. U.S. Homeland Security introduced the ban in March over concerns that the large devices could be used to smuggle explosives into the cabins of planes.
"Emirates has been working hard in coordination with various aviation stakeholders and the local authorities to implement heightened security measures and protocols that meet the requirements of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's new security guidelines for all U.S. bound flights," the airline said in a statement Wednesday.
The ban was put in place in March and restricted items such as laptop computers, tablets, cameras, travel printers and games bigger than a phone.
READ: Laptop Ban: U.S. Lifts Carry-On Laptop Restriction For Abu Dhabi Airport
The ban has affected foreign-carrier planes flying from 10 countries to America: Amman, Jordan; Cairo; Istanbul; Jidda and Riyadh in Saudi Arabia; Kuwait City; Casablanca, Morocco; Doha, Qatar; and Dubai and Abu Dhabi in the United Arab Emirates. Approximately 50 flights flying into America were affected each day, according to the New York Times.
Last week, Trump's "watered-down" travel ban went into effect after a contentious Supreme Court ruling which said that there should be a test to make a "credible claim of bona fide relationship" with either an entity — like a school or a job — or a person living in the U.S. 
If a passenger can't establish a credible claim, they are banned for 90 days if you are from Libya, Syria, Iran, Somalia, Yemen and Sudan, and 120 days if you are a refugee from any country, according to a report by CNN. 
This is a revised version of the ban that the Trump administration has been trying to implement since Feb. 1 when Trump signed the executive order to suspend the entry of those from seven Muslim dominant countries: Iran, Iraq, Libya, Somalia, Sudan, Syria, and Yemen.
A week before the announcement from Turkish Airlines, Homeland Security Secretary John Kelly announced that there would be new aviation security measures that would impact overseas airports that have direct flights to the United States, warning that the threat has "not diminished," according to CNN. 
"The threat has not diminished. In fact, I am concerned that we are seeing renewed interest on the part of terrorist groups to go after the aviation sector," Kelly said on June 28.
READ: Supreme Court Upholds Travel Ban Partially, Trump Calls Decision 'A Clear Victory For National Security'
When it was announced that Turkish Airlines was going to be lifted from the ban, the airline posted on Twitter: "#WelcomeOnBoard to our U.S.-bound flight. Please fasten your seatbelts and enjoy your own electronic devices."
Dear Passengers, #WelcomeOnBoard to our US-bound flight. Please fasten your seatbelts and enjoy your own electronic devices. pic.twitter.com/WbcZwNPhrf
— Turkish Airlines (@TurkishAirlines) July 4, 2017
Emirates Airlines also tweeted: "Effective immediately laptops & electronic devices can be taken on board all Emirates flights from Dubai to the US."
Effective immediately laptops & electronic devices can be taken onboard all Emirates flights from Dubai to the US https://t.co/ii805S5mkN pic.twitter.com/iU7WCFKSq1
— Emirates airline (@emirates) July 5, 2017
A separate electronics ban on flights from Turkey going to the U.K. is still in effect.
Visitors look at an Emirates airline's Airbus A380 dislayed at the Dubai Airshow on November 9, 2015.  Photo: (MARWAN NAAMANI/AFP/Getty Images)
United Airlines issued an apology after a Hawaii middle-school teacher had to hold her 27-month-old son on her lap during a flight because the airline gave the toddler’s seat away to a standby passenger, according to Hawaii News Now Tuesday.
After Shirley Yamauchi’s son Taizo was already seated on the flight, a passenger told Yamauchi that her son's seat belonged to him because he acquired a ticket on standby.
“I told him that I bought both of these tickets and he tells me that he got the ticket on standby. Then he proceeds to sit in the center. I had to move my son onto my lap,” she said. “He’s 25 pounds. He’s half my height. I was very uncomfortable. My hand, my left arm was smashed up against the wall. I lost feeling in my legs and left arm.”
Read: United Airlines Apologizes To Colorado Mother Whose Infant Son Fell Ill Aboard Delayed Flight
She held her son in her lap for the three-and-a-half-hour flight from Houston to Boston.
Congratulations to Shirley Yamauchi for receiving the 2016 Economics Teacher of the Year award!  Keep up the great work that you do! #HSTA pic.twitter.com/WY3D1OVtEw
&mdash; HSTA (@HSTAvoice) October 11, 2016
Yamauchi purchased her airplane tickets for a teacher conference in Boston three months ago. According to United Airlines protocol, children over the age of 2 are required to have their own seat on flights, so she bought a ticket for her son, as well. Each ticket cost almost $1,000.
Yamauchi reported the problem to a flight attendant, but the woman said the flight was full and walked away from Yamauchi. She wanted to express further concerns but was aware of United Airlines' dubious history with customer service, which included airline personnel dragging a passenger off a flight and not allowing girls to board a flight for wearing leggings.
“I started remembering all those incidents with United on the news. The violence. Teeth getting knocked out,” she said. “I’m Asian. I’m scared and I felt uncomfortable. I didn’t want those things to happen to me.”
United Airlines airplane on JFK International Airport (New York City) runway, Dec. 10, 2002.  Photo: Mark Mainz/Getty Images
Yamauchi said she is reluctant to fly with United again.
“I had bought both of these tickets way in advance. We did the two hour check-in time before boarding. I had my receipts. I had my boarding pass. Yet this happened,” she said.
Read: United Airlines Customer Service: 10 Policy Changes Announced After David Dao Incident
According to the airline, some of their agents made a mistake when scanning the boarding pass. The passenger was not registered as having checked in which is why they gave away his seat. Five days after the incident, United apologized to Yamauchi.
“We deeply apologize to Ms. Yamauchi and her son for this experience. We are refunding her son’s ticket and providing a travel voucher,” the airline said. “We are also working with our gate staff to prevent this from happening again.”
Independence Day is a federal holiday in the United States, which means some places might be closed. Many of the government offices are slated to be closed, along with there being limited transportation options.
Post offices and UPS will be closed Tuesday and won't be delivering mail or packages. Fed Ex will be closed Tuesday and not doing home deliveries Monday.  
Most schools are out for the summer, but if they are still in session than they aren't operating Tuesday. Most libraries will also be closed Tuesday for the holiday, too. Most hospitals will remain open, although they will be running with a smaller staff. 
READ: July 4th Fireworks In New Jersey Canceled? Chris Christie Says It's Possible
The New York Stock Exchange will be closed for the holiday, as will all Federal Reserve banks and branches. Social Security offices are closed as well as the Department of Motor Vehicles. Most bank offices will also be closed, but accounts can be accessed online. 
Taking public transportation will be messy. Metro North will run on a regular weekday schedule Monday but services are on a Sunday schedule Tuesday "to get you to and from the annual Macy's Fireworks." Subways will be running on a Saturday schedule Tuesday, which means no 2 or 3 train service in Brooklyn and no B, W or Z service at all, among other changes.
Check the MTA website for full details and service changes to individual trains and stations.
In New Jersey, national parks and beaches were closed due to the state's government shutdown, including Cheesequake and Island Beach and Liberty State Park in Jersey City, according to NJ.com on July 1. The site also said that the shutdown would also not affect most local July 4 fireworks displays.
The government shutdown is expected to last through the holiday, although Jersey City Mayor Jersey City Mayor Steve Fulop said the July 4 celebration scheduled for Liberty State Park featuring a concert by Kool & The Gang "would be held at another location" if the shutdown stretches on through the holiday. 
READ:  4th Of July 2017: Best And Worst Places To Spend Independence Day
In Washington, D.C., the Metrorail will open Tuesday at 7 a.m. and close at midnight on July 4th. "Trains will run every 12 minutes on each line until about 6 p.m. gradually ramping up to near rush-hour service levels thereafter," says the Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority website. 
Some stores are going to be open on the weekend, trying to cash in on holiday specials. Most have modified schedules, so it's best to check local listings before heading out for shopping. One website to check for listings is is holiday shopping hours.com.
People watch the Macy's Fourth of July Fireworks from Brooklyn Bridge Park on July 4, 2016 in the Brooklyn borough of New York City. The celebrations mark the nation's 240th Independence Day. Photo: (Stephanie Keith/Getty Images)
This question was originally published on Quora. Answer by John L. Miller.
The best things to help prevent burn-out when the symptoms first show up are:
Time off and sabbaticals both seem like they would help, but they don't necessarily. People are burned out because they're working too hard. That's a mix of them caring enough to work hard, and overdoing it. Pulling them out can have a negative rebound effect.
At Microsoft people earned sabbaticals. In general I believe it was found that the sabbaticals were, despite their coolness, not good retention tools for those who earned them. Just as the work should be sustainable to let the employees recover, any time off should also be sustainable and not exceptional, IMO.
In summary, most of what I'd recommend to deal with employee burnout is a sort of compassionate management, helping the employee to regain perspective, making them feel heard and valued, reassuring them that things will get better, and making sure they successfully reduce their efforts to a sustainable level.  I don't think financial or time-off incentives - other than a day or two - are effective. If the project has a natural ending, let them finish it off, and then move onto something that will excite them more, if desired.
Q&A site Quora. Photo: Quora
The default setting for financial firms today is to hold on to data, like something from Hoarders. Firms have difficulty parting with in-house data because they don't know what is OK to delete. To be on the safe side, especially from a compliance perspective, they just save everything. Given the availability of ever cheaper computing power and storage, the direct cost of following such a strategy is fairly low.
This means internal data accumulates fast these days. Everything from instant messages via Bloomberg, Slack, Symphony or Skype to legal documents such as business contracts, litigation or regulatory filings; it could be internal analyst newsletters, investment notes, surveys, or reports that you have – not forgetting email, where you are likely to have some valuable discussions buried in the morass of your inbox.
Big data analytics company RavenPack helps firms deal with their data hoarding issues. Specialising in text, RavenPack turns large unstructured datasets into what you would call structured or machine readable content. This creates data that can be easily analysed, manipulated and deployed in financial applications with a focus on alpha creation, risk management, or compliance and so on. RavenPack's clients include some of the most sophisticated quantitative hedge funds and asset managers in the world.
Peter Hafez, Chief Data Scientist at RavenPack, said: "Today, some data-driven hedge funds are evaluating more than a 1000 new datasets per year. The main challenge for them is to figure out what datasets to really dig deep into and focus on. They look for easy ways to structure new content, to identify which datasets hold the most promise when it comes to alpha generation. They're always looking for ways to optimise resources that will help them consume even more data than before."
RavenPack normalises internal content, using semantic intelligence to structure information. "To help make sense of it all, it's useful to apply an ontology as part of the process. This can help you better understand what information is relevant, for instance to a company. Is the company or one of its subsidiaries part of a corporate action, are people talking about their products, or is there perhaps news about its suppliers, customers, or competitors." explains Hafez.
However, it is not enough simply to detect or understand the links between entities. "You also need to understand the context." RavenPack works with an elaborate event taxonomy that is used to detect and classify thousands of actionable events, including anything from lawsuits or product recalls to supply disruptions or civil unrest. "Context is key! Understanding the novelty and relevance of an event can help you make stronger return predictions. Other important features include the sentiment and temporal nature of the event, i.e. is the information positive or negative; is the event taking place now, as opposed to in the future or in the past?"
Once these dimensions are in place, data held in-house is much easier to search with a view to extracting value from it. It may be that a firm's internal data diverges from what external data is saying, and this could provide a competitive advantage. "These days, hedge funds and trading operations are searching out some obscure and unique dataset and taking advantage of that, but it's easy to overlook valuable information you may already have in house", notes Hafez.
"We have had clients come to us, discretionary traders, who have portfolios of 20 or 30 companies. What really bugs them when they do their analysis is thinking there may be some information they are missing and it's actually sitting right there in the inbox," he said.
"They know there is a lot of potentially valuable content there like analyst reports coming in. They just haven't had time to look at it all. Instead, they turn to RavenPack for help on what reports or what emails they should read before making a particular set of trades. Being able to highlight the ten most important emails can create a contrarian view to the trade, potentially making or saving the client millions."
This article was first published on February 22, 2017
Bloq, the blockchain studio led by Jeff Garzik, has acquired Skry, a pioneer in blockchain analytics, to enhance its suite of analysis tools. The move will maximise the value of blockchain data sets through artificial intelligence and machine learning, said a statement.
The transaction, which closed on February 24, is Bloq's first acquisition and includes all of Skry's intellectual property and team.
Jeff Garzik, CEO and co-founder of Bloq, said: "Blockchain networks need more than a rudimentary finder or explorer. We're ensuring that enterprises won't have to 'fly blind' without a complete understanding of the performance, economics and irregularities of their underlying networks."
Skry's platform allows clients to manage, visualise and analyse blockchain data from disparate sources. It allows users to detect anomalies – such as a DDoS attack, spike in transaction fees or certain block dynamics – both on public and private blockchains.
"Blockchain networks will create the greatest data sets we've ever seen," said Matthew Roszak, chairman and co-founder of Bloq. "Leveraging machine learning techniques will enable faster and enhanced decision making, while uncovering insights and massive opportunities along the way."
Fabio Federici, former CEO and co-founder of Skry, said: "Bloq is one of the few blockchain software companies with a comprehensive vision for what enterprise customers need to launch and manage blockchain networks and applications. Its team stressed interoperability and painstakingly engineered its technology from day one to be blockchain-agnostic. I'm excited to have Skry be a part of that future."
The acquisition comes just months after Bloq co-launched Vulcan Digital Asset Services, a platform to enable digital assets to be used for banking, commerce and asset related services, with PwC Australia.
Delegates at Newsweek and International Business Times' data science in capital markets event were mesmerised by a video of shoe box-sized satellites, known as "cube sats" being released into the earth's atmosphere. They were then shown the speeded up footage that was being captured: giant oil tanks with floating lids, rising like tides; ships being built from scratch in dry docks; burning flares from steel mills; a picture of the agricultural yields of the entire planet.
Professor David Hand, chief scientific advisor, Winton, introducing the event, pointed out that the current AI summer is characterised by what he called "automatic data capture".
He said: "Perhaps even more important than big data, we can now observe what people are doing all the time, like shopping for instance. Heterogeneous data is being produced constantly, as you sit here data about you is being captured by computers."
The satellite images came courtesy of A.J. DeRosa, executive VP, Global Insight. "Moore's Law is going to space," he stated. Rather like the reduced cost of computers, satellites have also shrunk in cost and size, from $750m space craft the size of buses to the handy cube sats ($100,000), which are now permitted for use in any sort of commercial enterprise.
"Imagine being able to count ships at port," said DeRosa. "Imagine being able to count anything. Skynet is here! Without GPUs none of this is possible."
In terms of creating value from a trading and investment strategy, he said crude oil tanks filling and emptying has an obvious direct bearing on people interested in commodities. "Want to measure oil in China? First you need to know where the oil tanks are. The Chinese don't like to share this information. There are publicly known to be 500 tanks; we counted 2,000.
"We can look at the entire planet for the first time. And satellites have been around for a while so there is historic data so you can back test."
The explosion in alternative data has given rise to a new secondary market where hedge funds are connected to interesting and unusual datasets which their competitors may not have access to. Tammer Kamel, CEO, Quandl, is a data specialist who understands the transient nature of alpha-generating advantages. We saw this with the first uses of computers to price bonds which made a fortune for some because the rest of the street was using calculators, he said. More recently we have seen the same sort of thing with HFT.
"You can just go out into the wilderness and find data. It's a gold rush. Anything you want to know about the macro economy can be known today if you are connected to the right database," said Kamel.
He said many organisations are sitting on interesting data sets that the market doesn't know about. For example, the insurance company which has a list of the policies sold on new cars. Not only is it a measure of new car sales, it can be broken down further into manufacturer, like new policies on BMWs for instance.
Another Quandl example uses automatic identification system (AIS) which maps the whereabouts of all vessels on the ocean via inbuilt transponders. "It's an awful hairy dataset but it tells you where all the ships are in the world. Then you can add a second proprietary dataset about ports and berths; what do they load there, oil, coal, whatever. Mash it up with AIS data and you can work out how much coal went to China this week."
Kamel said another revealing dataset can be constructed from various suppliers and service providers to find out which companies can pay their bills on time – with a view to potentially shorting their stock.
Leigh Drogen, CEO, Estimize agreed that alternative data is a fine thing, but how do you get from signal to strategy. He said the discretionary world is clueless when it comes to data science. He recounted how a discretionary portfolio manager with billions under management came and asked if he could be taught the rudiments of data science. "I just don't have 12 nights out of my life to teach a class," said Drogen.
There are good ways and bad ways to go about integrating data science into investment firms, noted Drogen, castigating the centralised PM or pod-based approach; complete collaboration is a better way to understand what these quantitative findings really mean to your strategy. "Put a quant on the desk, and usually an engineer too," he said.
John Macpherson, CEO, BMLL, a startup which uses machine learning on limit order book data, said common RESTful APIs, the cloud and in general the "plumbing" is crucial. "You want the data to arrive in the right format. Data scientists spend most of their time massaging data. They should really be called 'data janitors'," he said.
After lunch the focus turned from data which is mainly numerical in origin on to text. There has been a lot of work done on natural language processing and sentiment analysis – and the challenges involved have only been exacerbated by the addition of social media.
Gideon Mann, head of data science, Bloomberg, explained that algorithms learn to deal with things like changes in the ways companies are referred to, such as Bank of America or BoA, or BoA Inc. Social media added to the mix means yet more ambiguity because it has its own style.
Mann touched on the problem of fake news which he compared to email spam or news spam. He said algorithms were probably the solution. "A tweet came from a particular place; what router, phone, laptop. This is not the be all and end all regarding veracity measures with Twitter, but it is one way our thinking is going."
Edin Zajmovic, director of investment management – EMEA, Thomson-Reuters, began at the beginning, when Reuters employed carrier pigeons to transmit closing prices between London and Paris. Today he is using deep learning to create "the largest graph of financial data bringing in structured and unstructured data". This system becomes comprehensive as it grows, using deep learning to link companies that may be impacted by certain news stories.
Peter Hafez, chief date scientist, RavenPack pointed out that they beat Thomson-Reuters by six months to bring out the first sentiment product. Hafez talked about providing treatment for hedge funds' data hoarding habits – a common disorder around a fear of discarding anything.
"One discretionary trader came to me with 20,000 unread emails. He was worried that when he was about to trade something, there could be information in his inbox which would give him a contrarian view," said Hafez.
Peter Bailey, chief strategy officer, Dataminr, which looks for patterns amid tweeting within the full Twitter "firehose" said he thinks of it as a trip wire that's 320 million users long and 50 languages deep. This is a needle in a haystack problem, but often things like oil pipeline explosions which quickly become the subject of localised tweeting, open windows of arbitrage advantage.
Asked for predictions about what sort of data will be the most interesting in the future, Bloomberg's Mann said he is a language guy. But looking at AI in general, he wondered about the effect of self-driving trucks, for example, which in a few years' time will put about eight million people out of a job. "That's just trucks," he said.
Bringing it back to investment strategies, the brilliant Michael Beal, CEO, Data Capital Management, had a stark prediction: "If you're finding alpha then you will be fine. But if you package beta, it's about to be over for you."
This article was first published on March 1, 2017
It makes sense for large technology companies like Google and Microsoft to open source AI and machine learning solutions because they have overlapping vertical interests in providing vast cloud services. These come into play when a certain machine learning library becomes popular and users deploy it on the cloud and so forth. It is less clear why financial services companies, which play a much more directly correlated zero sum game, would open up code that they paid the engineering team to create.
It's interesting that hedge funds, traditionally thought to be the most secretive of financial institutions, have been proactive in pushing an open source software agenda. AQR Capital Management was probably patient zero when it came to opening up their code around data storage – and this move, shepherded by software engineer Wes McKinney, kickstarted the popular Pandas libraries project. Now he has returned to open source work at Two Sigma. We have also seen open source data storage offerings coming out of Man AHL in the form of Arctic.
Taking part in a panel on open source infrastructure, McKinney said investment in an open source project yields dividends later: data storage underlies other verticals, and when other people use the software and build libraries on top of it, that makes in-house systems more compatible.
McKinney pointed to the problems you face when it comes to scaling data science. He said a myriad of difficulties emerge when curating lots of types of data that are available, plus the inefficiencies encountered programming APIs and other barriers to individual productivity, are comparable to death by 1,000 cuts.
"With Pandas we really obsessed about how to allow the cleaning of data in a systematic way," he said.
Saeed Amen, founder and CEO, Cuemacro, demonstrated some of the Python code he has uploaded to Github: finmarketpy, chartpy and findatapy. This included a nice animated graph depicting the market assimilation of last year's referendum build up and aftermath, which he referred to as "Brexit the movie".
Also on the panel was Man AHL CTO Gary Collier who was the architect of the Artic open source project. "It's like nailing colours to the mast of the organisation. In the war for the technology talent there is a high correlation between the best developers and open source. Also, functionality is key; it's the way you wire up your code with your data sources. There is a lot less intrinsic value in the actual code than some people think."
Chairing the panel, Paul Bilikon, founder and CEO, Thalesians, asked about how open source works in the context of academia compared to industry.
Viral Shah, CEO and founder Julia Computing Inc, said that in academia it's normal to go on forums and ask questions, whereas within industry there's always the fear you might be giving away your IP. "It's a delicate balance. For industry the focus is on robustness and stability, whereas in academia it's all about experimentation."
McKinney said you can mitigate these tensions to some degree with testing standards and contribution guidelines, especially if you are changing something that might affect an industry user. "In the Apache Software Foundation a key thing is the set of principles that ensures decisions are made on consensus," he said. "Open source can be killed by back room decision making. You must do it in public. This also makes it difficult for some vendor to come and start to exert influence."
The panel were asked about how best to sustain an open source community. Often when software is the core business a consultancy business model is aimed for, but there are other cases where some engineering time dedicated from your company could provide food and water for an open source project.
McKinney feels passionate about this. He said: "I feel a compulsion not to let open source projects die. But without sponsorship it can become hard to sustain. So when commercials ask me how they can help, I say sponsor an individual – to triage issues, do patches; that goes a long way.
"There are hidden costs of being overburdened with maintenance and as a project succeeds you can become a victim of its success. The project exceeds its bandwidth and the cost is innovation."
Later in the day a fintech panel was chaired by Dr Tristan Fletcher, formerly of Thought Machine. He started by pointing out that the FCA received 40 applications for Robo Advisors this year, asking if it was expected to live up to its promise to disrupt the wealth sector.
Hazel Moore OBE, co-founder and chair of First Capital, said yes because humans can no longer process the scale of data available. Regarding robo-advice uptake, she said: "For individuals it is still a fraction of a percentage point, and right now it's pretty simplistic: fit your profile with a set of funds."
Richard Craib, CEO, Numerai, said there was perhaps some confusion between intelligence and automation where robo-advice was concerned. "Is there training data, that you would use in an AI?"
Mike Baliman, founder, London Fintech Podcast, questioned the current buzzword – "regtech". He pointed out that there is a certain class of problems, for example pensions mis-selling, where it would be impossible to predict what would come about after the fact in the likes of the Pensions Review or PPI.
Hazel Moore argued that there are some obvious candidate regtech applications such as KYC or within real time fraud detection, but agreed it was not a panacea.
Finally, the panel turned to the question of hype and expectation. Craib said he gets worried by over-ebullient VCs. "They'll say to you – 'I understand this at a high level', which means they don't actually understand it."
Dr Fletcher said the main offenders are the media. "They drive this hype cycle. It's as if they are warning us about overcrowding on Mars – we are not even there yet."
Presumably those same journalists are closely followed by conference organisers.
This question was originally published on Quora. Answer by Rutger Bregman.
Yes! I’ve got three chapters in my book ‘Utopia for Realists’ about several experiments that have happened in the past. For example:
In the 1970s the Canadian town of Dauphin trialled a basic income, but due to lack of funding were unable to analyse the results. When researchers looked at the data 25 years later, they discovered the experiment had been a huge success: the hospitalization rate went down by 8.5%, kids performed much better in school, domestic violence was down, as were mental health complaints. And the only ones who worked a little less were new mothers and students (who stayed in school longer).
Another example: In 2009, a homelessness charity in London experimented with giving 13 rough sleepers ‘free money’ on the logic that doing so might be cheaper than the aggregate of police expenses, court costs and social services. They gave each man £3000, no strings attached, and simply asked, ‘What do you think you need?’ Surely they drank the money away and ended up back under a bridge? Not a chance. After a year and a half, seven had a roof over their heads, two were about to move into an apartment, and all had taken steps toward solvency and personal growth. What’s more, this came at a cost of £300,000 less than the alternative. Even The Economist wrote: ‘The most efficient way to spend money on the homeless might be just to give it to them.’
There have been basic income experiments in the U.S. in the seventies as well, where researchers found that the divorce rate went up by 50 percent. At that point, conservatives became fiercely anti-UBI - because it would make women much too independent. Ten years later, other researchers discovered that a statistical mistake had been made. In reality, the divorce rate did not go up.
What else have we got? There’s a fascinating (natural) experiment in North Carolina (see chapter 3 of my book), there’s been a big UBI experiment in India (see the work of Guy Standing), and new experiments have started in Finland and Kenya. So far, every single time we’ve experimented with basic income, it’s been a success. I think basic income is a really promising directing of thought and we shouldn’t be afraid to do more (and more ambitious) experiments.
Q&A site Quora. Photo: Quora
There's a lot of noise about how Robo-Advice is going to disrupt the wealth management sector. Indeed, the UK's FCA received over 40 applications last year to use automated wealth solutions of one sort or another. Many Robo-Advisors tout some level of machine intelligence to foster results, but really offer a generic, pre-set portfolio of three to six ETFs to clients.
San Francisco-based AI Labs began building its Vise platform n January 2015. Today it uses a mix of machine learning and deep learning.
Runik Mehrotra, president of AI Labs said: "To build portfolios, we implement a multitude of AI technologies coupled with conventional Markowitz finance. We believe there are underlying structures and patterns within finance and a combination of nonlinear and linear technologies can result in a more accurate system.
Dr Marc Ettlinger, chief data scientist, AI Labs, added: "We use innovative neural network models to build our sentiment analysis engine, far surpassing previous approaches for understanding the meaning of millions of stock articles and their relationship to stock price."
A huge innovation in data science over the past five years has been the ascendance of neural network models, rebranded as deep learning models, over symbolic, rule-based expert systems. There's a lot of hype and headline around this stuff just now: DeepMind beating Lee Sedol at Go, as well as the use of neural networks to solve important fundamental AI tasks such as image recognition, which is fueling innovations with self-driving cars and medical diagnostics.
Within a financial context, we hear about hedge funds hiring banks of PhDs with all manner of science backgrounds to search out alpha returns. However, many of these hedge funds (including some AI-driven funds) have performed poorly of late.
The Barclay Hedge Fund index performance can be classified as poor at best and downright horrible at worst. According to a hedge fund tracker HRF, net flows have been negative since the last quarter of 2015.
The problems partially result from a change in market outlook. With stocks at all-time highs and bonds at record low yields, investors in hedge funds are naturally looking for alternatives. Preqin's survey showed that hedge fund managers themselves acknowledge that there are fewer opportunities in credit and equity strategies. All the blame cannot be placed on the trading strategy itself but rather the market performance.
Another aspect of why hedge funds have been seeing poor returns, specifically those who tout algorithmic trading strategies and systematic trading, is due to their inability to continuously refine and upgrade their strategies, noted Mehrotra.
"Technology is constantly changing," said Mehrotra. "I was in the research sphere before I was at Artificial Intelligence Labs and I experienced how quickly technological research [quantitative finance, artificial intelligence, etc] was done and the effects and implementations of that research in systematic trading strategies.
"I still think large research platforms have a role in hedge funds. That role however, will slowly start to change as we see AI develop further. Their alternative strategy is really to look beyond stocks and bonds, increase the reputation of active investing, and strengthening their back office infrastructure," he said.
High commission hedge funds that capture and clean acres of unstructured data have been forced to face the fact that Robo-Advice and smart beta solutions have lately been achieving similar or even better returns. Unsurprisingly, this often elicits disdain from the active management and data science community.
At the recent Newsweek AI in capital markets event, Michael Beal, founder of Data Capital Management said that searching out alpha was fine, "but if you are packaging beta, it's about to be over for you".
Mehrotra acknowledged the recent traction around Robo Advisory tools and personal wealth management. Robo-Advisors such as Betterment and Wealthfront, for instance, have over $10bn in assets under management combined and are slowly catching up to some of the larger players in the industry such as Vanguard and Schwab.
He said: "They've been yielding market-like returns for quite some time now. It's interesting to look at their correlation with the market and how exposed these portfolios are to the indices, though it's far more interesting to look at their returns in market downturns."
During Brexit, for example, Betterment portfolios fell an average of 3-4%. Consequently, Betterment halted all trading for the day. For a product that markets itself as having control over your portfolio, that move was very hedge fund-like, pointed out Mehrotra. Smart beta or Robo-Advisory practices might be beneficial in the short term, but in the long term, especially during market downturns and periods of high volatility, it will be difficult for Robo-Advisors to justify their fee.
Samir Vasavada, CEO, AI Labs added: "So far, Robo-Advisors have emphasised their fee-savings, while neglecting the long-term attractiveness of the asset allocations they propose. Instead they argue for a simple passive approach to investing that works for seven years and fails miserably for two or three.
"They've been fortunate that the market has benefited them for those past seven years - but the shortfall of their business models will only be felt in the next market."
Google befell the ire of European Union officials this week and was fined a record $2.71 billion ( €2.42 billion) Tuesday. The fine was levied against Google for unfairly favoring some of its own shopping services over competitors.
Officials at the European Commission said that Google must come up with changes to its practices within 90 days or face more penalties.
READ: Google Pixel 2: To Arrive With Snapdragon 835, Feature 5 And 6-Inch Displays
“Google abused its market dominance as a search engine by promoting its own comparison shopping service in its search results and demoting those of competitors. What Google has done is illegal under EU antitrust rules,” said Margrethe Vestager, the E.U.’s top antitrust official to CNN Tuesday. “It denied other companies the chance to compete on the merits and to innovate. And most importantly, it denied European consumers a genuine choice of services and the full benefits of innovation.”
Google wrote in a statement that it feels its service is helpful to customers and is only doing its best to compete with companies like Amazon.
“Given the evidence, we respectfully disagree with the conclusions announced today. We will review the Commission’s decision in detail as we consider an appeal, and we look forward to continuing to make our case,” read a statement from Google’s Senior Vice President and General Counsel Kent. Walker. “We think our current shopping results are useful and are a much-improved version of the text-only ads we showed a decade ago. Showing ads that include pictures, ratings, and prices benefits us, our advertisers, and most of all, our users. And we show them only when your feedback tells us they are relevant. Thousands of European merchants use these ads to compete with larger companies like Amazon and eBay.”
The Commission alleges that when someone types an item into Google, advertisements pop up first, which Google gets paid for when people click on the ads. Competitor price comparison sites appear lower in searches. According to the Wall Street Journal Tuesday the practice Google uses drops competitors traffic 85 percent in the U.K. and 92 percent in Germany.
READ: Email Privacy: Google Will No Longer Scan Gmail Content For Targeted Advertising
The fine is just more than double the previous largest fine. In 2009 the E.U. levied a $1.2 billion against Intel for a monopoly abuse case.
The fine is small in comparison to Google’s over $90 billion in annual revenues but is part of a chain of decisions that show the E.U. wants to keep a close regulatory watch on American tech companies that dominate European the market. Vestager demanded that Apple pay back $14.7 billion in back taxes to the government of Ireland last year and Facebook was fined this year for misleading officials when it purchased WhatsApp.
This story was originally published by ProPublica.
If you’ve ridden the New York City subway lately, chances are you’ve seen posters promising relief from the city’s soaring housing costs. Featuring smiling tenants with names like Catalina, Evelio and Estella, the ads hold out the promise of a rent freeze if you live in one of the more than 800,000 apartments in the city subject to  limits on annual rent increases.
Those limits are a big deal right now. The body that sets them — the city’s Rent Guidelines Board — will decide on June 27 how much owners will be able to legally increase rents in the city’s “rent-stabilized” apartments. During each of the last two years, the board has voted to freeze rents on one-year lease renewals.
But for renters who occupy about 31 percent of the city’s rent-stabilized apartments, the board’s freeze does not protect them from big rent increases. That’s because of a provision in the law that allows landlords to charge some tenants more than the city-set limits allow. And now, for the first time, we know which neighborhoods are most at risk of seeing rents soar: Preferential rents are often concentrated in the poorest areas of the city.
At issue is a 2003 law that allows owners to ignore the annual limits imposed by the Rent Guidelines Board as long as they charge less than the maximum rent they’re legally entitled to collect.
Under New York rent laws, there’s a limit on how much can be charged for the city’s approximately 840,000 rent-stabilized apartments. Sometimes, landlords offer a discount below that price, which is known as a “preferential” rent. That discount helps renters in the short run. But it leaves them vulnerable to sharp rent increases in subsequent years. The 2003 law allows owners to raise preferential rents to any amount up to the legal maximum whenever a tenant’s lease comes up for renewal.
As we explained in an April story, this arrangement puts many tenants at risk of sudden displacement or even homelessness if they can’t afford a sudden increase in their preferential rent. Others may find themselves paying more than they should if the owner incorrectly calculates the maximum “legal” rent, as many do. One Brooklyn family we profiled in our April story had to move when their landlord raised their preferential rent by $571 per month to the legal maximum.
Where else are tenants at risk of being displaced by similar rent hikes? Newly available data shows that six of the ten New York City ZIP codes with the most preferential rents are located in the Bronx — long home to some of the city’s poorest residents. Poverty rates in these Bronx ZIP codes range between 30 and 43 percent, indicating many tenants who have little ability to afford a big rent hike.
Even in areas with fewer preferential rents, the overlap with poverty can be striking. In South Bronx’s Mott Haven, for example — where around 48 percent of residents live below the poverty line — about 43 percent of rent-stabilized apartments are charged preferential rents, the data shows.
The distribution of preferential rents across New York City was a mystery until now because the state’s Division of Housing and Community Renewal, which tracks prices in rent-stabilized apartments, is barred from releasing the information to anyone except the tenant or the owner. ProPublica obtained the data after the city’s Rent Guidelines Board asked the agency to disclose aggregate data by ZIP code.
“I think it sends a really clear picture to me that we are in a housing crisis and rent-stabilized housing isn’t as stable as we think it is,” said Sheila Garcia, one of two tenant representatives on the board.
The board’s two landlord representatives did not respond to a request for comment.
To get a better understanding of where preferential rents are most common, we’ve mapped out the data by ZIP code. We also added related information such as the percentage of residents who live under the federal poverty line, based on the latest American Community Survey data.
If your neighborhood shows up in an area with lots of preferential rents, here are three ways in which the issue could affect you or your neighbors.
1. Gentrification
Preferential rents help tenants by giving them a break on their rent today. But as neighborhoods become more desirable, a big gap between the preferential and legal rent can give an owner the ability to raise rents sharply once the market moves higher.
Advocates for affordable housing fear that, as neighborhoods gentrify, owners will raise preferential rents, displacing tenants the rent stabilization laws were supposed to protect from sudden increases in their housing costs.
“It’s a time bomb of gentrification, stripping rent-regulated tenants of the exact protection they need,” said Benjamin Dulchin, executive director of the Association for Neighborhood and Housing Development, which represents affordable housing groups.
The Rent Stabilization Association, which represents owners, disagrees.
“There is a very limited ability to increase preferential rents because they are market rents.  And why should only preferential rent tenants be asked to pay for ever increasing real estate taxes and not the lucky 70 percent who pay below-market rents?” the group said in an emailed statement.
Buildings with a large number of tenants paying preferential rents can command a premium when they go up for sale because owners know they can quickly move to charge tenants more.
One 93-unit apartment building in Bronx’s Kingsbridge neighborhood recently sold for $20 million after being advertised with scores of preferential rents that could be raised; one unit featured a predicted increase of $734 in the preferential rent once the lease expires in August.
The sales broker, Seth Glasser of Marcus & Millichap, cited the “in-place preferential rents” as one reason why “the seller was able to achieve an above-market price,” according to the Commercial Observer, which covers real estate. Asked about his comments, Glasser said “I am not willing to give any other quotes pertaining to preferential rents.”
Another real estate publication, The Real Deal, recently wrote that investors seeking high returns are increasingly flocking to the Bronx, betting that rising rents will support higher purchase prices for apartment buildings.
For the Bronx’s poorer residents, dealing with the consequences isn’t easy. In ZIP code 10458, which includes the heart of Bronx’s Bedford Park neighborhood, the poverty rate is 38 percent and almost 30 percent of the area’s rent-stabilized apartments feature preferential rents.
Sally Dunford, who runs a local help center for tenants, says she often sees two or three families move in together when an owner revokes a preferential rent. Others go homeless.
“In a community like ours, where people do not know their rights and are living right on the line, it doesn’t take much to disrupt your life,” said Dunford, executive director of the West Bronx Housing and Neighborhood Resource Center.
2. Illegal Lease Clauses
What if your landlord said you can’t tell anyone how much rent you pay — and if you do, he’ll raise it by hundreds or even thousands of dollars? If that sounds too fanciful to be true, it’s not. Some New Yorkers who pay preferential rents are finding that language in their lease.
The language is an example of the legally questionable lease clauses that some owners employ when tenants agree to pay preferential rents. Because the prospect of a higher “legal” rent is included on the lease, some landlords use it as an opportunity to ask tenants to agree to instant rent hikes if they do something the owner doesn’t like.
Some owners say they’ll revoke the preferential rent and charge the full legal amount if tenants are late with their payments, or if they have to take the tenant to court. Others even forbid tenants from simply disclosing their preferential rent to anyone — a problematic proposition in case the tenant wishes to challenge the legality of their rent.
“You will not discuss the preferential rent with anyone else unless you have owner’s written consent,” demands one lease issued by Rockrose Development, a prominent New York City real estate owner and developer. As “consequences of your breach,” the company warns, “the rent will revert retroactively” to the legal maximum.
ProPublica spotted such language in leases in two luxury buildings in Manhattan as well as a multifamily building in the Bronx. For the Rockrose tenant who agreed to the terms, the clause implied she could see a sudden rent spike of more than $3,000 per month simply for discussing her rent.
As it turned out, the tenant needed to disclose her preferential rent because she chose to challenge its legality with the state housing regulator.
Threatening to raise a tenant’s rent for simply talking about their rent is “crazy,” said Ellen Davidson, a staff attorney at The Legal Aid Society, which helps low-income renters. “Any court or administrative agency that considered this provision would find it to be invalid,” she said.
Rockrose did not return emails and phone calls seeking comment.
The state’s Division of Housing and Community Renewal says in a fact sheet that it does not allow owners to condition receipt of preferential rent “upon the performance of an act by the tenant.” A spokeswoman stopped short of saying the clause is illegal, but hinted in a statement that the agency would look dubiously upon such lease language.
3. No Rent Freeze
If you’re elderly or disabled, you may be eligible for an even longer rent freeze than the recent one-year zero percent increases mandated by the Rent Guidelines Board. But if you pay a preferential rent, you may not benefit much — if at all.
The permanent rent freeze is available under a city-run program called NYC Rent Freeze. Here’s how it works. If you’re elderly or disabled, you can apply to have the city pay your landlord any future increases in your rent in the form of a tax break. The idea is to give stability to the city’s neediest residents while allowing their landlords to collect an increase — courtesy of taxpayers.
About 69,000 senior and disabled residents have their rent frozen under the program, which had its beginnings in the 1970s and today costs about $169 million a year in uncollected tax revenues. Participants must live in a rent-stabilized apartment and make $50,000 or less, among other criteria. Because participation rates have been historically low — only about 39 percent of eligible residents take advantage of the program — the city’s making a big push to get the word out about NYC Rent Freeze and enroll elderly and disabled tenants.
But there’s a catch, which isn’t explained in any of the city’s subway ads advertising the program: The freeze applies to legal maximum rents claimed by landlords. With few exceptions, tenants can’t get their lower preferential rents frozen.
This discourages some eligible residents from applying. Aged 72, retired, and subsisting on food stamps and $2,123 in monthly Social Security benefits, Eva Tucholka of Harlem applied in hopes of freezing her $2,126-per-month preferential rent. But she ended up not even bothering to complete the application when she learned the “freeze” would apply to her legal rent, which is $2,251.
“I don’t really know what to do,” said Tucholka, who just got a one-year renewal lease offer that increases her preferential rent to $2,195 per month starting in July.
Others who do apply and get approved may see their rent go up anyway. Gabriel Levicky of the Bronx, 68, lives just down the street from the building that recently sold for $20 million. He applied and was approved in February 2016 to have his rent frozen at the legal rate of $1,653 per month. But because the freeze didn’t apply to a lower preferential rent that he was actually paying, when his lease came up for renewal later that year, his landlord raised the preferential rent by $175 per month for a two-year term.
“This recent rent increase is rather steep and tough. Please reconsider and recalculate it,” Levicky wrote to his landlord, K.S. Realty. K.S. Realty did not respond to requests for comment.
The company made life a bit easier for Levicky by subtracting from his rent a portion of the tax break it was receiving from the city to freeze his legal rent. But the city’s Department of Finance said program rules do not require landlords to do so. ProPublica found that some owners simply keep the rent freeze tax benefit and raise the tenant’s preferential rent anyway.
A bill was introduced in the state Assembly last year to enable tenants paying preferential rents to benefit from the program, but it didn’t go anywhere in the Democratic-controlled chamber. Its prospects are even dimmer in the Republican-led Senate, where GOP lawmakers historically aligned with the real estate lobby do not let pro-tenant bills come to the floor for a vote.
Getting Help
What should you do if you’re unsure about the legality of your rent? Your best bet is to request a rent history from the state’s Division of Housing and Community Renewal (you can learn how to do so here) and reach out to a local community group such as CASA in the Southwest Bronx or PALANTE in Harlem to review your rent history and learn about your legal options.
We’ve also put together an FAQ about rent stabilization with additional resources.
Ken Schwencke and Marcelo Rochabrun contributed reporting to this story.
Martin Shkreli is set to stand trial in a New York federal court Monday for security fraud. The notorious former CEO of Turing Pharmaceuticals has been accused of running a Ponzi scheme and could face up to 20 years in prison if convicted.
In addition to security fraud, the 34-year-old is accused of wire fraud, conspiracy, and mismanaging money at his investment funds Elea Capital, MSMB Capital, MSMB Healthcare, as well as while CEO of Retrophin (RTRX), the pharmaceutical company he founded in 2011.
The prosecution alleges that he cheated investors out of more than $11 million between 2009 and 2014.
READ: Wu-Tang Clan’s ‘Once Upon a Time in Shaolin’ Tracks Released By Martin Shkreli After Trump’s Win
Martin Shkreli, photographed during a court hearing on Capitol Hill in Washington, D.C., on Feb. 4, 2016, has released tracks off Wu-Tang Clan’s “Once Upon a Time in Shaolin” as promised.  Photo: Reuters
Part of the drama that surrounds the case is that Shkreli has taken on an internet persona that leads some to call him the "most hated" person on the internet. The persona includes him regularly live-streaming parts of his life and vilified on social media as a "pharma bro."
Shkreli's lawyer Ben Brafman took a hands-off approach to his client. Brafman, in an email to CNN Friday said that he "would prefer that Mr. Shkreli not live stream during trial," but that his client "did not intentionally violate the law [and] is confident he will be acquitted‎.  
"While I can control his conduct in the courtroom, I cannot control his life nor do I have the right to interfere with his personal life," Brafman continued.  
Martin Shkreli is brought out of 26 Federal Plaza by law enforcement officials after being arrested for securities fraud, Dec. 17, 2015, in New York City. Photo: Andrew Burton/Getty Images
Throughout the process, Shkreli has maintained his innocence. 
"I’m so innocent, the jury, judge and the prosecution are gonna give me an apology," he said in a recent live stream, according to a New York Times report that said several live streams available earlier this week had been taken down by the midweek.
At the hearing Monday, Brafman said Shkreli didn't defraud the investors because they ultimately got their money back. Prosecutor Jacquelyn Kasulis argued that fraud can mean "depriving investors of a right to control their assets." 
“There is law here, there are rules, they apply to Mr. Shkreli,” she said.
READ: What Did Martin Shkreli Do Now? Pharmacy Bro's Twitter Account Suspended For Targeted Harassment
One reason Shkreli maintains infamy is that he flaunts his extravagant wealth. He owns a Picasso painting and bought the only copy of the Wu-Tang Clan album "Once Upon A Time In Shaolin" for $2 million in 2015. He later leaked the album to celebrate Donald Trump's victory in the 2016 election. 
He also is known for publically getting in trouble on the internet. In May, he harassed a journalist from Teen Vogue on Twitter until he was banned from the social media platform. 
Shkreli's infamy rocket shot after increasing the price of Daraprim, a drug used by AIDS patients, by over 5,000 percent in 2015 while he was the CEO of Turing Pharmaceuticals, sparking widespread outrage. The increase raised the price of a single pill of Daraprim from $13.50 to $750. He resigned from Turing after being arrested in December 2015 for the alleged security fraud.
Ex-pharmaceutical executive Martin Shkreli exits the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of New York, June 6, 2016, in the Brooklyn borough of New York City. Federal prosecutors filed new criminal charges accusing Shkreli of more illegal financial maneuvers at his former drug company Retrophin Inc. Photo: Drew Angerer/Getty Images
Five months after President Donald Trump proclaimed “we are going to fight for every last American job” at a Boeing factory in South Carolina, the company announced Thursday it would be laying off “fewer than 200 people” at the North Charleston plant campus.
“Our competition is relentless, and that has made clear our need as a company to reduce cost to be more competitive,” Boeing said in a statement, Washington Post reported.  
Read: Boeing Earnings Shatter Projected Profits As Quarterly Revenue Falls
During his visit to the company, Donald Trump said, “We're here today to celebrate American engineering and American manufacturing, we're also here today to celebrate jobs. Jobs!”
Boeing employs about 140,000 workers in the United States, mostly in, California, Washington, Missouri and South Carolina, Washington Post reported.
Lay offs at Boeing had been ongoing throughout this year, with over 400 employees already let go, reports said. Those however were from different Boeing plants. The plant where the president had visited and celebrated new jobs, saw layoffs for the first time this year. This is not the first time the airline company will be laying off employees. Boeing laid off more than 30,000 employees in 2001.  Over the years, many renowned companies have cut jobs on a large scale.
Boeing is not even the only company to lay off employees in big numbers. Here are some of the biggest corporate layoffs in U.S. history:
IBM – 60,000 employees   
In one of the biggest job cuts, IBM issued pink slips to 60,000 employees in 1993.  IBM’s core mainframe business was becoming obsolete with the arrival of personal computers. The company wanted to shift its focus on providing integrated solutions for its customers and CEO Louis Gerster had put aside $8.9 billion which led to the loss of 60,000 jobs. 
Citibank – 50,000 employees 
Citibank had 50,000 employees laid off in November, 2008. At that time, it was planning to start disinvestment. Addressing the employees, former CEO Vikram Pandit had said "There is nothing easy about these decisions and the impact on our people. We do this because we must and not because we want to," reports said. 
Read: Will Trump Allow Boeing To Sell Jets To Iran?
Sears, Roebuck & Company – 50,000 employees
In January, 1993, Sears, Roebuck & Company decided to axe 50,000 employees. The decision was taken as the company was finding it difficult to compete with the lower cost models of competitors. It closed more than 100 shops. 
General Motors – 47,000 employees 
In 2009, General Motors reduced its workforce by 47,000. They closed five factories due to global recession and increasing competition from Japanese manufacturer competition. The company had also announced plans to phase out its Hummer brand and scale back its Pontiac line, reports said. 
AT&T – 40,000 employees 
While most companies lay off employees while not making profit, AT&T cut 40,000 employees in January 1996, when almost all of the company's divisions were profitable and growing, reports said. The company had then planned to focus on telecommunications equipment, communications services, and computers.
Companies like Ford Motors Company, Kmart also laid off thousands of employees over the years. 
In a major deal, leading beverage company Diageo was confirmed Wednesday as the new owners of actor George Clooney's premium tequila brand Casamigos in a $1 billion deal. The "Hail, Ceaser!" star shares this deal with fellow owners Mike Meldman and Rande Gerber, model Cindy Crawford's husband. The deal significantly benefits Clooney's estimated net worth of $500 million.
The announcement came four years after the company's 2013 inception. Prior to sealing the deal, the trio didn't realize they had a billion dollar company on their hands.
"If you asked us four years ago if we had a billion dollar company, I don’t think we would have said yes," Clooney said in a statement issued to International Business Times. "This reflects Diageo’s belief in our company and our belief in Diageo. But we’re not going anywhere.  We’ll still be very much a part of Casamigos. Starting with a shot tonight. Maybe two."
Read: George Clooney May Need Sleeping Pills After Welcoming Twins With Amal, According To Former Co-Star
Diageo, who produces liquor brands like Captain Morgan and Ciroc, wanted to acquire Casamigos to become active participants in the fast-growing tequila business. In a statement issued on their website, Diageo revealed their intentions to initially pay $700 million. An additional $300 million would be added to the deal based on performance.
"To date, the founders have built a brand that has thrived under their organic approach in reaching and expanding their “house of friends”, and they will continue to promote the brand and provide their leadership and vision," Diaegeo shared on their website Wednesday. "We are delighted that the founders will have continued involvement and active participation in the future success of Casamigos. This, combined with the strengths of Diageo, will ensure the continued momentum of the brand."
The deal will reportedly be finalized by the end of 2017.
Although the premium tequila brand has generated success in the United States, according to CNBC, the trio's creation of Casamigos was an accident. While on vacation in Mexico, Clooney and Gerber were inspired to launch their tequila brand after consuming a large amount of the alcoholic drink. Thereafter, Heldman was brought on board.
Read: How Are Amal, George Clooney Settling Into Life With Twins? Actor’s Father Tells All
"As you do when you're in Mexico, you drink a lot of tequila," Gerber told CNBC Wednesday. "After a couple of months trying a lot of different tequilas, George turned to me and said, 'Why don't we just make our own? One that's perfect for us to drink.'"
The deal arrived at a busy time in Clooney's life. The "Money Monster" star recently welcomed twins into the world with wife Amal Clooney in late May. However, prior to the arrival of his family, Clooney hadn't appeared on the big screen in over a year.
From Clooney's business ventures with Casamigos alongside his acting, directing, screenwriting and producing credits, the Academy Award winner's net worth stood at $500 million entering 2017, according to Celebrity Net Worth. However, Clooney's net worth will most likely increase because the purchase of his popular tequila brand has been confirmed, and he intended to remain involved with Casamigos under Diageo's wing.
Tequila sales in America saw their largest growth in 2016 at 7.4 percent, according to Fortune. Therefore, Diageo's decision to capitalize off of the growth within the tequila business would be beneficial to the company in the long run.
Currently, Bloomberg noted that Casamigos is growing quickly and was on "track to sell 170,000 12-bottle cases this year." Casamigos' tequila prices range from $20 to $105. 
George Clooney is reportedly planning to move his wife, Amal, and kids, Ella and Alexander, to Los Angeles over growing concerns about terror threats in England. Here, he is pictured April 26, 2017 at the Lost In Space event. Photo: Getty Images
Uber CEO Travis Kalanick stepped down Wednesday amid a cloud of scandal and the ride-hailing app and industry disruptor is looking for its next leader.
Bart Friedman, a corporate governance expert and senior counsel at law firm Cahill Gordon & Reindel, told the Wall Street Journal Wednesday that two potential options for the role are Uber board member Arianna Huffington and dark horse candidate and board Chairman Garret Camp, who co-founded the company.
READ: Uber CEO Travis Kalanick Resigns Under Pressure From Investors
“(Camp) may not demonstrate sufficient change for investors, who will really be calling the shots,” Friedman told the Journal. “The investors are going to be looking for not only someone who is transformative but a big public-relations success.”
Last week Kalanick announced he was taking a leave of absence from Uber on the same day the company released a 13-page report of recommendations the company can take to improve its workplace environment. It was conducted by former Attorney General Eric Holder and his law firm Covington and Burling. Uber’s board voted unanimously to accept all recommendations. One of those recommendations was to bring in a chief operating officer (COO) following an exodus of executives. The search for that role turned out some lukewarm candidates who might now be a lot more interested in the chief executive role.
Thomas Staggs, former COO at Disney was being considered for the same role at Uber, but might now be part of the CEO search, according to Recode Wednesday. YouTube CEO Susan Wojcicki was in consideration for the COO job and might now be part of the search for chief executive.
Internal candidates such as Jeff Holden, the company’s chief product officer or Jason Droege, head of the company’s UberEveryting division are potential choices Quartz reported Wednesday.
According to the New York Post Wednesday, the board wants to go after Facebook’s COO, Sheryl Sandberg. The Post said the move was being pushed by Huffington.
Despite the choice of leader, Kalanick will remain a part of Uber’s board.
“I love Uber more than anything in the world and at this difficult moment in my personal life I have accepted the investors request to step aside so that Uber can go back to building rather than be distracted with another fight,” said Kalanick in a statement obtained by The Hill Wednesday.
The toxic environment at Uber which included repeated claims of sexual harassment became a firestorm when a former employee wrote a blog post detailing how she was treated at Uber, prompting others to come forward.
“It was clear that (my manager) was trying to get me to have sex with him, and it was so clearly out of line that I immediately took screenshots of these chat messages and reported him to HR,” Susan Fowler, a former engineer at the company wrote on her blog.
She continued, “When I reported the situation, I was told by both HR and upper management that even though this was clearly sexual harassment and he was propositioning me, it was this man's first offense and that they wouldn't feel comfortable giving him anything other than a warning and a stern talking-to. Upper management told me that he 'was a high performer' (i.e. had stellar performance reviews from his superiors) and they wouldn't feel comfortable punishing him for what was probably just an innocent mistake on his part.”
She later detailed that she saw the number of women at the company dwindle while she was there and said that other women she spoke to had experienced similar harassment.
READ: Uber Apologizes To NYC Riders, Former Employee Claiming That 'It's All A Show'
The recommendations the company published last week stated, “Uber should consider adopting a zero-tolerance policy for substantiated complaints of discrimination and harassment, without regard to whether an employee is a 'high performer' or a long-term employee.”
Uber did not immediately respond to requests for comment.
Twitter was quick to react Wednesday to the news that George Clooney was selling Casamigos, a brand of tequila the actor co-owns, for $1 billion to Diageo Plc. Some users expressed surprise at the development, as most weren't aware of Clooney's forays into the tequila industry. 
I'll be 100 percent honest. I didn't know George Clooney had a tequila business worth $1 billion. https://t.co/LZWGxGGaSZ
— Sopan Deb (@SopanDeb) June 21, 2017
Did Clooney even know?
— Celine Phan (@CelinePhan16) June 21, 2017
That's the type billionaire I want to be, like George Clooney-where nobody knows you have a billion til you sell your business. pic.twitter.com/Pw5L5h5R9u
— Nicki (@nickiknowsnada) June 21, 2017
Casamigos is on track to sell 170,000 12-bottle cases this year, Diageo North America President Deirdre Mahlan said on a call to Bloomberg.
Clooney started the tequila company four years ago with developer Mike Meldman and entertainment entrepreneur Rande Gerber. The sale included an initial consideration of $700 million and an additional $300 million performance-based payout over the next decade, according to a report by Market Watch Wednesday. 
The tequila brand has been growing at an increased rate — 40 percent to 50 percent annually — sells for $45 to $55 a pop. Tequila itself is an expanding market and U.S. has seen the liquor sell more than double from 2002 through 2015, according to the Distilled Spirits Council.
This is the drink company Diageo’s biggest acquisition since it bought United Spirits Lte. for $3.2 billion in 2014. The company also owns the vodka company Smirnoff, Scotch Whiskey company Johnnie Walker, the liquor Baileys, and the beer Guinness. 
NEW: George Clooney May Need Sleeping Pills After Welcoming Twins With Amal, According To Former Co-Star
Other users referenced movies that he was including the critically panned "Batman and Robin" and the acclaimed hit "Oceans 11," among others. 
It would be a nice gesture if George Clooney used some of that billion dollars to give everyone who saw Batman & Robin a refund.
— Frank Conniff (@FrankConniff) June 21, 2017
George Clooney is now both handsome and a billionaire.Goddamn Batman...
— Spider-Lou (@spiderlou2099) June 21, 2017
Plot of Oceans 14. pic.twitter.com/J9hOzm0xG1
— Colt SebastianTaylor (@ColtSTaylor) June 21, 2017
So, apparently George Clooney has a tequila company and he just sold it for $1 billion https://t.co/iQhbk9S0lY pic.twitter.com/63BYclV4U5
— BuzzFeed (@BuzzFeed) June 21, 2017
NEW: How Are Amal, George Clooney Settling Into Life With Twins? Actor’s Father Tells All
Another topic broached by Twitter users was Clooney's recently expanded family. He and his wife, Amal, recently had twins, daughter Ella and son Alexander, earlier this month. This personal take on the tequila sale was mentioned by fans that sarcastically said that they were "worried" about how he was going to support his newly expanded family.
George Clooney just sold his tequila business for $1 billionWhew, I was worried he wouldn't be able to properly support his new twins.
— Jeff Dwoskin (@bigmacher) June 21, 2017
twins are expensive so that's good.
— Lesley Abravanel (@lesleyabravanel) June 21, 2017
Actor George Clooney speaks onstage at The 100 LIVES initiative, to express gratitude to the individuals and institutions whose heroic actions saved Armenian lives during the Genocide 100 years ago, on March 10, 2015 in New York City.  Photo: (Neilson Barnard/Getty Images for 100 LIVES)
This article originally appeared on the Motley Fool.
Do you hate your job?
If so, you're actually in the minority of employees, according to a survey conducted by the Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM). Slightly over half of employees say that they're satisfied with their jobs, with another 38% stating that they're very satisfied with their jobs.
• Motley Fool Issues Rare Triple-Buy Alert
However, that leaves over 10% of Americans who don't like their jobs and 49% who aren't highly satisfied. And other studies show higher numbers of Americans are unhappy with their jobs.
What do people hate most about their jobs? Here are the five top complaints identified in the SHRM survey -- and what employees can do about them.
1. Pay and benefits too low
Less than one-third of workers say that they're very satisfied with their benefits. Only 26% say they're very satisfied with their overall compensation. This means that there's a lot of employees across the U.S. who, to some degree, feel their pay and benefits aren't enough.
The SHRM survey found that one contributing factor to discontent could be that fewer Americans are receiving bonuses than in the past. Interestingly, the happiest campers when it came to pay were the millennials, with 37% responding that they were very satisfied with their compensation. Generation Xers were the most disgruntled, with only 20% very satisfied with their pay. 
2. Bad bosses
It's been said that employees don't leave their jobs -- they leave their bosses. The SHRM survey identified some reason to think there's truth in that statement.
The job factor with the most Americans rating it as very important was respectful treatment of employees by management. However, only 38% said that they were very satisfied with respect given to them by their bosses. Trust was another high-ranked item in terms of importance, but only one-third of workers indicated they were very satisfied with the trust between management and employees. 
• This Stock Could Be Like Buying Amazon in 1997
Based on the SHRM survey, though, workers think more highly of their immediate supervisors than they do of senior management. It appears that the biggest frustration among American employees about management relates less to their bosses, but is more focused on their bosses' bosses.
3. Too little job security
Job security was ranked high in importance. However, the SHRM survey detected concerns among many workers about the security and stability of their jobs. 
One reason for this could be that some organizations aren't in great shape financially. Only one-third of employees expressed high satisfaction with the financial stability of their employers.
4. The work itself
There were several survey questions that indicated many workers weren't happy with the nature of the work that they did. The issues appeared to stem from perceived low meaningfulness of the job and not enough opportunities for employees to use their skills and abilities in their jobs.
5. Office politics
Less than one-third of employees indicated that they were very satisfied with teamwork in their department, with even fewer giving high marks for teamwork between departments. Only 31% were highly satisfied with the overall corporate culture. The common thread among these responses hints at problems with office politics.
What can you do?
There are four basic things that employees can do in the face of these reasons for hating their jobs. The first (and worst) option is to simply do nothing. Life's too short to spend it doing something that you hate, so this option isn't recommended.
• 7 of 8 People Are Clueless About This Trillion-Dollar Market
The second option is to attempt to change whatever it is that you hate about your job. For example, if you generally like the job but are unhappy with your salary, build your case for why you deserve more money. Gather information about average salaries for people with similar experience as you in similar jobs. Document the extra things you do that go above and beyond what the job requires. Then go talk with your supervisor.
You might not like the third option: change yourself. In some cases, when you really think about things honestly and objectively, your attitudes and behaviors could be the underlying reasons behind problems at the job. For example, a manager could be hard on an employee because he or she is frequently late. 
This option could also be applicable in other scenarios. If you're concerned about job security, look for ways to gain more training and experience that make you more marketable in the event that your concerns turn out to be warranted.
Then there's the fourth option: change jobs. One of the things that I wish I knew when I graduated from college is that you're always ultimately your own boss. Everyone has a choice about whether or not they will work for an employer or direct supervisor. You might not be able to get your bad boss fired, but you always have the alternative of firing the person as your boss.
The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
Miami-Dade Police are seen in cell phone footage ticketing an Uber driver $250 for not being able to speak English well enough.
Uber driver Carmen Echevarria says she feels “discriminated against” after Telemundo 51, an NBC affiliate station, obtained video of her receiving the ticket from an officer outside of Miami International Airport on Monday. The English fluency fine was issued as part of a May 2016 Miami-Dade County memorandum rule that requires transportation network drivers be “able to communicate in the English language.”
The video shows the interaction between Spanish-speaking Echevarria and the officer in which she claims she was issued the citation for not speaking proper English.
Read: Class-Action Lawsuit Says Uber Shorted Drivers' Fares
 “I felt discriminated against,” Echevarria told Telemundo 51. “I asked the (passenger sitting in her car) ‘Can you please help translate what she is saying?’ Then she asked why, if I was an Uber driver, I didn’t speak English.”
“I told her ‘so sorry, a little English’ then she called the inspector who also confronted me and told me in order to be an Uber driver I need it to speak English,” she added.
It was unclear from the video or local reports why Echevarria and her passenger were initially pulled over.
Although Uber’s website makes no mention of language requirements for drivers in Miami, company spokesman Javi Correoso sent out a statement after the incident asking all drivers in Florida to follow all applicable local laws and regulations until statewide regulations for ride-sharing companies go into effect on July 1.  Gov. Rick Scott signed CS/HB 221 into law last month, which will override rules such as the English requirement ordinance in Miami-Dade County.
Correoso said that the memorandum rule for the county is “very vague and difficult to enforce.”
He added that all official paperwork given to driver partners for Uber is in English and that some fines for drivers have been paid out by the company in the past. There was no confirmation as to whether Echevarria’s fine would be reimbursed or paid.
Miami-Dade Department of Transportation Public Relations Officer Karla Damian issued a statement after the incident: "The Code doesn’t require the driver to be ‘proficient’ in the English language, but the driver should have some knowledge of the English language in order to communicate with a passenger in case of an emergency or to receive and understand basic directions from the passenger(s)."
This article originally appeared on Kaiser Health News.
Pediatricians and public health researchers know they have to be on the lookout for lead exposure from paint chips and contaminated drinking water. A new report suggests food — particularly baby food — could be a problem, too.
The Environmental Defense Fund, in an analysis of 11 years of federal data, found detectable levels of lead in 20 percent of 2,164 baby food samples. The toxic metal was most commonly found in fruit juices such as grape and apple, root vegetables such as sweet potatoes and carrots, and cookies such as teething biscuits.
The organization’s primary focus was on the baby foods because of how detrimental lead can be to child development.
“Lead can have a number of effects on children and it’s especially harmful during critical windows of development,” said Dr. Aparna Bole, pediatrician at University Hospitals Rainbow Babies and Children’s Hospital in Cleveland, who was not involved with the report. “The largest burden that we often think about is neurocognitive that can occur even at low levels of lead exposure.”
Lead can cause problems with attention and behavior, cognitive development, the cardiovascular system and immune system, Bole said.
The samples studied were not identified by brand, and the levels of lead are thought to be relatively low. Still, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, no safe blood lead level in children has been identified.
In a draft report released earlier this year, the Environmental Protection Agency estimated that over 5 percent of children consume more than 6 micrograms per day of lead — the maximum daily intake level set by the Food and Drug Administration in 1993 — in their diet.
This surprised Tom Neltner, Environmental Defense Fund’s chemicals policy director, who has spent 20 years researching and working to reduce lead exposures. His further analysis of the EPA report was that food is the major source of lead exposure in two-thirds of toddlers.
This spurred the organization to examine data from the FDA’s Total Diet Studyfor specific sources of exposure for kids.
In the resulting report, released Thursday, Neltner found that the baby food versions of apple juice, grape juice and carrots had detectable lead more often than the regular versions. Researchers could determine how frequently contamination occurred, but not at what levels.
Percentage of food samples containing lead. Photo: Kaiser Health News
According to the FDA, lead makes its way into food through contaminated soil, but Neltner suspects that processing may also play a role.
“I can’t explain it other than I assume baby food is processed more,” Neltner said.
The Environmental Defense Fund report notes that more research on the sources of contamination is needed.
FDA has set guidance levels of 100 parts per billion (ppb) for candy and dried fruit and 50 ppb for fruit juices. The allowable level for lead in bottled water is 5 ppb.
Concern over fruit juices flared up in 2012 when Consumer Reports found that 1 in 4 samples of apple and grape juices had lead levels higher than the FDA’s bottled-water limit of 5 ppb.
“The FDA is continuing to work with industry to further limit the amount of lead in foods to the greatest extent feasible, especially in foods frequently consumed by children,” read an agency statement in response to the report. “The agency is in the process of reevaluating the analytical methods it uses for determining when it should take action with respect to measured levels of lead in particular foods, including those consumed by infants and toddlers.”
Neltner said he’s glad the FDA is working on the issue but wants them to “get it done. Move quicker.”
The Environmental Defense Fund isn’t recommending that parents avoid certain foods or brands for their children but does advise that they consult their pediatrician about all means of lead exposure.
“In many American communities, the most significant route of lead exposure is from paint and soil,” Bole said. “Avoiding all sources of exposure of lead poisoning is incredibly important … but the last thing I would want is for a parent to restrict their child’s diet or limit their intake of healthy food groups.”
She added that pediatricians recommend limiting or eliminating fruit juices from children’s diets, anyway, for nutritional reasons. “There are good reasons to limit juice other than this particular report,” Bole said.
But she said she wouldn’t want parents to avoid root vegetables altogether. “The benefits of those nutritious foods far outweigh any risk,” she said, especially in the context of where kids are most exposed to lead.
In response to a request for comment, Gerber said that samples of its baby foods and juices “consistently fall well within the available guidance levels and meet our own strict standards.” And samples of Gerber juices were all below the EPA standard for drinking water.
“We know parents may be concerned about a recent report on lead in foods and want to reassure them that Gerber foods and juices are safe,” the statement read.
The Environmental Defense Fund report was ultimately directed at the food industry and FDA in the hopes of getting limits and standards updated.
But lead in paint and drinking water shouldn’t fall by the wayside, Neltner said. “You’ve got to deal with this issue on multiple fronts.”
This story was produced by Kaiser Health News, which publishes California Healthline and whose stories appear in news outlets nationwide, an editorially independent service of the California Health Care Foundation.
Bill Gates, the richest person in the world, may soon lose the top spot in the list of billionaires. Jeff Bezos, the founder of Amazon.com, is merely $5 billion away from becoming the richest person. And there are signs that as he increases his wealth, Bezos may be ready to step up his philanthropic efforts. His lack of personal giving and Amazon's low profile in the philanthropic world have been criticized over the years.
After Amazon announced it was buying Whole Foods, the surge in Amazon stock added $1.8 billion to his net worth, taking his total net worth to about $84.6 billion, CNN reported. The difference is expected to decrease further as Gates, who stepped away from day-to-day control of Microsoft in 2000 but still owns 2 percent of the company, focuses increasingly on the work of the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation.
Read: Jeff Bezos' Company May Soon Compete With Facebook, WhatsApp
Gates, 61, has pledged to give away at least half of his money during his lifetime. More than 150 people have also signed the pledge — but the list does not include Bezos. (The late Steve Jobs, co-founder of Apple, who did not sign the pledge, was also widely criticized for his apparent lack of interest in charitable giving.) But a day before Bezos surprised analysts by announcing Amazon would buy Whole Foods, the 51 year old posted on Twitter, asking his followers to give philanthropy ideas.  
"I’m thinking about a philanthropy strategy that is the opposite of how I mostly spend my time — working on the long term," Bezos wrote. He also said he wanted to find a way to help people "at the intersection of urgent need and lasting impact."  
His followers have offered ideas such as helping LGBT youth, easing student loan debt, and helping with the cost of daycare.
Read: What Twitter Thinks Jeff Bezos Should Spend His Money On​
Bezos owns nearly 17 percent of Amazon.com. At a shareholders meeting in 2016, he claimed Amazon was the fastest company ever to reach $100 billion in annual sales, reports said. 
According to the latest Forbes list of billionaires, Gates occupies the top spot with a net worth of $89.3 billon followed by Bezos with a net worth of $84.1 billion. 
Amancio Ortega , the founder and former chairman of Inditex fashion group, best known for its chain of Zara, occupied the third spot with a net worth of $83.7 billion. 
Warren Buffet and Carlos Slim Helu occupy the fourth and the fifth position. Founder and CEO of facebook Mark Zuckerberg was in sixth position. Amazon on Friday announced it would buy the upscale grocery chain Whole Foods for $13.4 billion.  The grocery chain has more than 460 stores in the United States, Britain and Canada with the total sale of $16 billion in the last fiscal year, reports said.  
The company was founded in 1978 in Austin, Texas. Whole Foods is best known for its organic foods with its focus on healthy eating and fresh, local produce and meats. 
Amazon has been a retail giant that's pioneered online services such as 1-Click shopping, personalized recommendations, Prime, Fulfillment by Amazon, AWS, Kindle Direct Publishing, Kindle, Fire tablets, Fire TV, Amazon Echo and Alexa. 
This question originally appeared on Quora. Answer by Sondre Rasch.
The job is obsolete. I believe the future of work is very different from what we see today, and I quit my job as policy advisor in for the Norwegian parliament to help make sure it happens.
In the future every person in world will be able to choose to work on what she does best, whenever she chooses, from wherever she wants and be paid the world's value of her produce instantly, with security. While she can collaborate with other's to solve complex tasks, she can choose live and work with her friends and family if she pleases. There will be no mandatory office hours, no commute and far fewer middle managers, thankfully.
The odd bundle of the job is no longer needed, because new technological tools are better at solving the problems of coordination and matching that we previously needed the company to do.
1. The internet is removing the role of the physical border
Today too many people are restricted access to migration and free movement, reducing the dissemination of knowledge and productivity of billions of talented people.
In the future we will have a new global lens through which we view the world, where all the peoples of the world meet online to exchange ideas and services. In in doing, so they transcend boundaries and join the global citizenry in the global communities already seen today on websites like Reddit, GitHub and many others. In the virtual reality of the internet there are no boundaries.
2. Emerging allocation technologies and machine tools will improve our productivity
There is an underlying mega-trend to many of the phenomena we are observing today: the sharing economy, the freelancer economy and crowdsourcing. We are building nodes in what could  be described as hive-mind humanity.
The first phase of the internet was a nervous system, where we could sense what was going on in other nodes - the people connected. In the second phase we are discovering that we can perform functions in the real world by cooperating, like biological multicellular organisms once discovered. The difference between a superorganism and a real organism is that we retain our individuality; there is no central unit taking decisions on behalf of all of us, we are all free.
My hope is that such many such functions to hive-mind humanity will be created, thereby making work a more enjoyable experience for both those who work and those who need things done.
Today companies email us office tasks and we instantly assign them to pre-vetted freelancers based on skill and availability. We give them access to  tools others have made, to increase their productivity, and give them easy ways to cooperate with eachother online. Gradually these tools will move towards true AI, but from our vantage point they look to always be human-enhancing, only rarely human-replacing.
There's still a long way to go. But already today we see coworking spaces blossoming, the freelancer economy booming and the most dedicated explorers quitting their jobs to become digital nomads. In 10 years work and jobs will looks quite different from today, in a very good way; a more equitable, free and efficient way.
Q&A site Quora. Photo: Quora
Whole Foods Market's stock prices rose 28 percent Friday following news that the online distributing giant Amazon was buying the grocery story for an estimated $13.7 billion. The acquisition is unlikely to lower consumer prices but will offer more opportunities for the expanding e-commerce business for fresh food. 
"The brand is a good compliment to Amazon and would allow them to more aggressively target fresh food delivery to the at-home market," Darren Tristano, chief insights officer at Technomic, told CNBC Friday.
Amazon has dominated the industry of deliveries of online purchases. A report from Citi Research suggested that Wal-Mart was "best positioned" to take on Amazon in the growing industry, according to a report in March by CNBC. That same report suggested that Whole Foods was lagging at the bottom of the list for the online shopping. 
NEW: Whole Foods And 2 More Stocks And Earnings Reports To Watch For This Week
The e-commerce market is a booming business. A report by Food Marketing Institute and Nielsen released in January estimated consumers are going spend upwards of $100 billion on food-at-home items by 2025, growing the industry five-fold. 
The statement on the company website said that Whole Foods Market will continue its Whole Foods Market brand that depends on vendors and partners around the world. John Mackey will remain as CEO of Whole Foods Market and Whole Foods Market’s headquarters will stay in Austin, Texas.
"This partnership presents an opportunity to maximize value for Whole Foods Market’s shareholders, while at the same time extending our mission and bringing the highest quality, experience, convenience and innovation to our customers," said Whole Foods Market co-founder and CEO John Mackey in a statement.
NEW: Whole Foods Cheese Recalls 2017: List Of Products Affected And How To Get A Refund Over Listeria Contamination
Amazon has been a retail giant that's pioneered online services such as 1-Click shopping, personalized recommendations, Prime, Fulfillment by Amazon, AWS, Kindle Direct Publishing, Kindle, Fire tablets, Fire TV, Amazon Echo and Alexa. Amazon founder and CEO Jeff Bezos had high praise for its new partners Whole Foods. 
"Millions of people love Whole Foods Market because they offer the best natural and organic foods, and they make it fun to eat healthy," said Bezos on Friday. "Whole Foods Market has been satisfying, delighting and nourishing customers for nearly four decades – they’re doing an amazing job and we want that to continue."
This article originally appeared on the Motley Fool.
What happened
Oil supplies in the U.S. remain stuck at elevated levels despite strong compliance by OPEC and its partners in a coordinated effort to reduce output and drain supplies. That was evident from the most recent inventory data by the U.S. Energy Information Administration, which showed that stockpiles only fell by 1.7 million barrels this week. That was once again well below the consensus estimate, with analysts anticipating a 2.7-million-barrel draw.
• Motley Fool Issues Rare Triple-Buy Alert
That softer decline caused crude prices to roll over, with the U.S. oil benchmark WTI falling more than 3% by 12:00 p.m. EDT on Wednesday and below $45 per barrel. That decline took the price of crude down 10% since the end of last month and is coming even though OPEC renewed its output reduction pledge for another nine months.
So what
One of the drivers of the market's elevated inventory level is rising output from shale plays because companies like Bakken Shale-focused drillers Whiting Petroleum (NYSE:WLL) and Oasis Petroleum (NYSE:OAS) have ramped up spending in a bid to boost output rapidly. Whiting Petroleum, for example, plans to spend $1.1 billion drilling and completing new wells this year, double what it spent last year. That capital should increase Whiting's output by a stunning 23% by the end of this year, versus where it was producing at the end of 2016. In fact, the company is already on pace to beat that guidance thanks to monster well results in the first quarter. That said, Whiting based its budget on oil averaging $55 per barrel this year, which means it's currently outspending cash flow in chasing growth. That aggressiveness in growing production appears to have come back to bite the company since its stock is down 11% today as it's getting pulled down with crude prices.
Oasis Petroleum is also down double-digits today as investors sell it off on concerns that its growth ambitions are part of the market's problem. The company ratcheted up its capital budget this year, with plans to spend $410 million on drilling and completing new wells, up from $208.4 million last year. That capital, along with a recent acquisition, has the potential to fuel 41% higher output this year. That said, with oil falling below $45 per barrel, it will affect the returns Oasis can earn on new wells since only half of its inventory is even profitable below $45 per barrel.
• This Stock Could Be Like Buying Amazon in 1997
Another big decliner on the day is troubled offshore driller Seadrill (NYSE:SDRL), which was down more than 10% in early morning trading. Plunging oil prices caused customers to cancel or adjust several contracts in recent years, while an oversupply of rigs has forced down day rates for new contracts. That has had a devastating impact on the debt-laden driller, which is why Seadrill has warned that it might have no other recourse but to seek bankruptcy protection. That outcome is growing more likely the further oil falls since it means oil companies won't increase spending on new offshore wells, reducing the need for Seadrill's rigs.
The decline of oil below $45 a barrel has also hit stronger offshore-focused companies hard today. Leading offshore driller Transocean (NYSE:RIG) and top oilfield equipment maker National Oilwell Varco (NYSE:NOV) were down more than 5% by mid-morning, making them among the biggest decliners in the S&P 500 today. That's because sub-$45 oil is too low of a price to entice most oil companies to invest more capital offshore, which will likely keep downward pressure on the market. That likely means lower rig rates for Transocean and weaker equipment sales and margins for National Oilwell Varco.
• 7 of 8 People Are Clueless About This Trillion-Dollar Market
Now what
Shale producers gambled that oil would stay above $55 per barrel this year as a result of OPEC's output cuts. Those bets led to aggressive spending increases in a bid to grow production at a brisk pace, which is now offsetting a significant portion of OPEC's efforts to drain supplies, putting downward pressure on prices. Because of that, shale-focused companies like Whiting Petroleum and Oasis Petroleum will need to rethink their 2017 growth plans since the market simply cannot handle those volumes at the moment. Until they do, these stocks could continue to sell off along with the price of crude.
Matt DiLallo owns shares of National Oilwell Varco and Seadrill. The Motley Fool owns shares of and recommends National Oilwell Varco. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
Blockchain technology can transform the way the financial world works. Besides being highly secure, transparent and robust, the key aspect revolutionizing the industry is that blockchain lets parties handshake and transact without intermediaries. By combining advanced cryptography with decentralized security, blockchain platforms democratize access to capital very much like email democratized access to communication worldwide.
This creates opportunities and threats for financial institutions. Well-established players who rely on being the trusted middle man are at risk. There is a reason companies like Visa or Western Union are researching and investing in the technology best-known for underpinning the digital currency Bitcoin. If people can make payments and transfer money across borders without needing a bank account or a third party, then these institutions’ business models crumble. The blockchain technology creates its own smart contracts to govern value transfers, meaning there is no need for a third party to verify the transaction. Its currency is trust.
Now, payments and remittances are not the only transaction areas dominated by intermediaries. Other industries such as real estate and fine art are also controlled by brokers and dealers — and they are ripe for disruption.
Fine art investment, in particular, has operated practically the same way for hundreds of years, with large auction houses like Christie’s and Sotheby’s setting high fees (up to 25 percent), controlling liquidity and access to information. They can get away with it because their centuries-old reputation makes them hugely trusted. But what if you could replace trust based on reputation with trust based on technology?
The $56 billion art industry is in desperate need of open and fair marketplaces that create transparency and liquidity. Blockchain technology can provide the foundation for a secure and efficient market that enables buyers and sellers to transact directly without intermediaries.
Want to own a Monet? A Van Gogh? Now, millions of people who have been priced out of the exclusive art market, can own a piece of a Picasso. Blockchain platform Maecenas democratizes access to fine art investment. It converts million-dollar artworks into smaller, financial units that can be bought and sold easily — literally at a fraction of the cost. For the first time, technology will allow investors, collectors and owners to exchange shares in paintings and sculptures easily and instantly, similarly to how stocks are traded today. And galleries benefit too.  When a museum wants to add Rembrandt to its collection, it no longer has to ask a bank for a large loan and then submit to high auction- house fees. Instead, it crowd-funds the purchase on the  Maecenas platform — and still  gets to hang the masterpiece in its exhibition.
Art  has long been an attractive asset class, thanks to its resilience in downturns and its long-term capital appreciation.  And recent surveys show  interest in fine art among  investors and wealth managers is on the rise.  But despite all that, the art finance industry is struggling to see trading volumes make new highs. The problem is that access to information is patchy as long as  pieces are traded almost exclusively at outdated  venues.  Sales are still processed manually and settlement can take weeks. The inefficient, opaque process  discourages  too many potential  investors,  meaning art trades are too infrequent. In short, the art world  must join the digital age.
Maecenas aims to make that happen. Investors will be charged a fee of just 2 percent each trade while owners pay no more than 6 percent of the price of their pieces. The brainchild of experts in financial technology and the art world, the company has received funding from a Swiss venture capital business, Polytech Investors, and galleries and collectors are lining up to list artworks at the platform’s launch.
Masterpieces will be traded briskly through an open exchange, giving frequent updates of what the artworks are really worth. Portfolio managers will be able to price their positions more accurately and diversify their risk by investing in a range of different art assets. They will no longer need to have their funds concentrated in a handful of hard-to-sell pieces.
Art should become a first-class citizen in capital markets, and have rich market data feeds, order books, indices and even derivative markets.
Blockchain can save the art investment world.
Marcelo Garcia Casil is co-founder and CEO of Maecenas, a financial technology expert, experienced in designing and building large-scale enterprise-grade applications, primarily focused on investment banking and financial systems.
Uber’s CEO Travis Kalanick announced Tuesday that he would take a leave of absence amid criticism of the workplace culture the New York Times reported. Kalanick did not specify how long he would be away from the job and said that he needs to work on himself as a leader.
Uber also released a 13-page report Tuesday on recommendations the company can take to improve its workplace environment. It was conducted by former Attorney General Eric Holder and his law firm Covington and Burling. Uber’s board voted unanimously to accept all recommendations.
READ: Travis Kalanick Net Worth: Uber CEO Takes Leave Of Absence After Sexual Abuse Probe, Mother's Death
“This morning, employees were presented the recommendations from Covington & Burling that were unanimously approved by the Board on Sunday. Implementing these recommendations will improve our culture, promote fairness and accountability, and establish processes and systems to ensure the mistakes of the past will not be repeated. While change does not happen overnight, we’re committed to rebuilding trust with our employees, riders and drivers,” Liane Hornsey, Chief HR Officer at Uber said in a statement.
One of the main points of the report involves decentralizing power from Kalanick and giving some responsibilities to other executives. Specifically, it recommends having an empowered chief operating officer as a check and balance as well as to create oversight positions.
Uber has been criticized for flouting local regulations and plowing ahead regardless of what government regulators wanted from the company. Corporate misbehavior and a toxic work environment have also been a part of the problem at the $70 billion company.
Uber CEO Travis Kalanick speaks to students during an interaction at the Indian Institute of Technology campus in Mumbai, India on January 19, 2016. Photo: Danish Siddiqui/REUTERS
The poor work environment which included sexual harassment became a firestorm when a former employee wrote a blog post detailing how she was treated at Uber. Prompting others to come forward.
“It was clear that (my manager) was trying to get me to have sex with him, and it was so clearly out of line that I immediately took screenshots of these chat messages and reported him to HR,” Susan Fowler, a former engineer at the company wrote on her blog. “When I reported the situation, I was told by both HR and upper management that even though this was clearly sexual harassment and he was propositioning me, it was this man's first offense, and that they wouldn't feel comfortable giving him anything other than a warning and a stern talking-to. Upper management told me that he "was a high performer" (i.e. had stellar performance reviews from his superiors) and they wouldn't feel comfortable punishing him for what was probably just an innocent mistake on his part.”
She later detailed that she saw the number of women at the company dwindle while she was there and said that other women she spoke to had experienced similar harassment.
Read: Uber Looks To Calm Outrage After Surge Pricing During London Attacks
“Uber should consider adopting a zero-tolerance policy for substantiated complaints of discrimination and harassment, without regard to whether an employee is a “high performer” or a long-term employee,” the recommendations stated.
Kalanick, 40, said he needed to work on his aggressive leadership style. He was caught on video in February berating one of his own drivers.
A passenger has sued Delta Air Lines for a needle left in a seat pocket that pricked him and forced him to take HIV tests and medications for a year, TMZ reported late Monday, citing the lawsuit. The latest filing comes amid several other controversies the Atlanta-based company has faced in recent months.
In the court document, Gabriel Ybarra claimed the incident occurred when he was flying from Los Angeles to Atlanta in 2015. Ybarra said he reached into the seat pocket to grab his wallet when a stray needle struck his right middle finger. The finger started "bleeding profusely" when he tried to take the needle out, Ybarra said, adding that "his life flashed in front of him," the court filing read. It is unclear where the lawsuit was filed.
Read: Delta Air Lines Breaks Silence After Kicking Family With Babies Off Flight [WATCH]The document added that Ybarra went to a doctor following the incident and had to undergo several tests and take powerful medicines to ensure he did not contract any infection, especially HIV. The lawsuit, obtained by TMZ, alleges that Ybarra suffered months of dizziness, headaches, body aches and "explosive diarrhea" after taking the medicines. He also said he couldn't perform "his duties as a husband to his wife for months," forcing him and his wife to file the lawsuit.
A Delta Air Lines aeroplane is seen inside of a hangar in Mexico City, Mexico, May 3, 2017. Photo: Reuters/Edgard Garrido
Delta Air Lines has not yet publicly responded to the latest lawsuit.
Here are some of the recent troubles the airline has got into.
Delta held puppy hostage: Late May, a Minnesota woman claimed the airline held her dog “hostage” at a Guatemalan airport for 33 hours, demanding payment for the puppy before giving it back. Mary Nguyen said the airline refused to give her dog back until she gave them $3,000 to ship her German Shepherd, Bunny, to Central America. Delta said it was not their employees who held the dog but officials at the Guatemalan airport who were responsible for the incident.
Delta kicks family with babies off flight: In April, a couple traveling on a flight from Maui, Hawaii, to Los Angeles with their two children were kicked off the flight after they refused to forfeit the seat of their 2-year-old to another passenger.
Delta issued an apology, saying it had reached out to the couple to compensate them for the incident: "Delta's goal is to always work with customers in an attempt to find solutions to their travel issues. That did not happen in this case and we apologize."
Read: Is Delta Better Than American Airlines? Best Airlines In The World Announced By TripAdvisor
Delta Pilot Hits Passenger:  A pilot for Delta was caught on video hitting a passenger at Hartsfield–Jackson Atlanta International Airport in April. At the time of the incident, the passenger was involved in a brawl with another woman when the pilot grabbed her by the arm and hit her. 
“We became aware of this incident and a video last week and immediately removed the pilot from duty while we completed a thorough investigation,” a representative for the company said in a statement. The company in the statement defended the pilot saying, “Local law enforcement was called to respond at the time of the incident. The pilot has since been returned to work as our investigation found that his actions deescalated an altercation between passengers on the jetway floor during deplaning.”​
Delta Removes Passenger Who Needed To Urinate: A resident of Milwaukee, Wisconsin, was asked to leave a Delta flight from Atlanta to Milwaukee on April 18 because he wanted to use the restroom urgently. “I’m not really clear on why I’m being asked to leave this plane. I purchased this ticket. I had an emergency. I had to pee,” Kima Hamilton is heard saying in the clip, which was taken by fellow passengers. “I tried to hold it the first time and you said I absolutely couldn’t and I’m being kicked off the plane?” he added.
“The pilot came on and said, ‘Ladies and gentlemen, I’m sorry for the inconvenience but we have to return to the gate and remove a passenger.' It escalated to that point that fast,” Hamilton told reporters.
General Electric (GE) announced Monday that its chairman and CEO Jeffrey Immelt would retire at the end of the year. Immelt headed the company for 16 years.
But how much is the chief executive worth?
According to Celebrity Net Worth, the number is $90 million. Bloomberg reports that Immelt takes in an annual compensation of just under $22 million.
READ: Who Is Jeffrey Immelt? General Electric CEO Retires, John Flannery To Take Over Role In August
Immelt was born in Cincinnati and is an alumnus of Dartmouth College and Harvard Business School. He took over at GE in 2001, just days before the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. Immelt replaced the legendary chief executive Jack Welch, who over saw a gigantic expansion of the company increasing the stock value 4000 percent according to CBS.
 Immelt had a long tenure at the company, starting in 1982.
According to Reuters, GE’s shares have fallen 30 percent in his Immelt’s time as CEO, though they went up 4.1 percent after the departure was announced Monday morning.
Immelt, 61, guided GE through the sale of its finance business, GE Capital, and the acquisition of French power business Alstom, three years ago in a $13.5 billion deal. Last year GE merged its oil and gas divisions with service provider Baker Hughes, according to the New York Times.
“We can weather the cycle in the short term and we will be very well positioned to lead the industry going forward,” said Immelt at the time.
Retiring GE CEO Jeff Immelt speaks at a news conference in Boston, Massachusetts, April 4, 2016. Photo: Bryan Snyder/REUTERS
Immelt also got rid of the NBC television network, a division of the company, GE appliances and GE announced last week that it is seeking to sell off it light bulb business – an iconic piece of the company since it was co-founded by Thomas Edison, the light bulb’s inventor. General electric is 125-years-old and is the oldest member of the Dow Jones Industrial Average.
Immelt also pushed his company into software, opening up a software center in California in 2011. Immelt made the decision last year to move the GE’s  headquarters to Boston, from its Fairfield, Connecticut home. Immelt managed to nab $145 million in incentives from Boston and Massachusetts for the move.
Immelt will be replaced by John Flannery, 55, current president and CEO of GE Healthcare.
READ: Uber CEO Travis Kalanick Could Temporarily Leave Company, Report Says
“During this time of dynamic global markets and relentless focus on technology and operational excellence, there is no better person to lead GE than John Flannery. He brings unique experience and a strong skill set to the job,” said Jack Brennan, lead independent director of GE’s Board of Directors in a statement Monday.
“John has spent almost half of his career living outside of the United States and has led complex financial and industrial businesses all over the world, including running GE Healthcare, GE in India and the business development team for GE through the successful acquisition of Alstom. John has had a direct influence on the company’s direction, its financial health and its position as the world’s premier digital industrial company.”
Flannery has also been at General Electric for a long time, joining the company in 1987.
Less than a week after President Donald Trump announced that the U.S. would pull out of the Paris Climate Accord, the U.S. government abstained from signing another multilateral agreement in the French capital meant to combat tax evasion by companies operating in multiple countries.
The agreement, formed in conjunction with the Paris-based Organization of Economic Co-operation and Development, sought to stymie profit-shifting by multinational firms, a practice that costs the U.S. government an estimated $100 billion in foregone tax revenues each year. The OECD pegs the global annual tax loss at up to $240 billion.
On Wednesday, 68 countries signed the agreement to prevent a practice known as “treaty shopping,” in which a company with operations abroad attempts to capitalize on bilateral tax accords between the nation in which it’s based and any foreign country where it also operates. The U.S., which has been involved in the pact’s development, was not among the signatories.
“China and India were proud signers on this, and the U.S. was not even present at the meeting,” said Clark Gascoigne, the deputy director of the Financial Accountability and Corporate Transparency (FACT) Coalition. The American government, he said, was “deciding to go at it alone and on our own. We are continuing to abdicate our leadership on the global stage.”
Still, OECD spokesman Pascal Saint-Amans said the U.S. decision, far from being new or unique to the current administration, was “no surprise,” as the U.S. already had a “robust treaty network” with other nations.
But a key part of the agreement is the “principal purposes test,” which seeks to keep companies from making it appear as if a large amount of their operations is taking place in a country with laxer tax laws, when in reality the firm’s operations may be limited to a shell company or similar mechanism. The U.S. has its own version, the “limitation on benefits” rule, which is more quantitative, while the principal purposes test gives the taxing authority the power to determine whether firms are abusing tax laws.
One company that has come under scrutiny for that kind of abuse is Caterpillar Inc., which spent $1.26 million on federal lobbying efforts at least in part related to the OECD project to clamp down on the practice in the first three months of this year. An April 2014 Senate report, which advocated for the OECD initiative, noted that Caterpillar had shifted 85 percent of its profits to Switzerland, a notorious tax haven, “after the adoption of a Swiss tax strategy in 1999… without making any real changes in its business operations.”
“The company’s U.S. presence as a whole is far larger than its Swiss presence,” stated the report, which cited over 150,000 pages of documents from both the company and its auditor at the time, PricewaterhouseCoopers. “Caterpillar’s worldwide headquarters has long been in Peoria, Illinois, and all of its most senior executives are located there. Of its 118,500 employees worldwide, about 52,000, or nearly half, work in the United States, while only 400 employees, less than one-half of one percent, work in Switzerland. Of its 125 manufacturing facilities worldwide, 54 are in the United States, while none are located in Switzerland.”
Caterpillar Inc. spent $1.26 million in federal lobbying at least in part on the OECD agreement on base erosion and profit shifting in the first quarter of this year. Above, a bulldozer was photographed on a railcar outside the Caterpillar plant in Peoria, Illinois, where the firm is headquartered, Jan. 26, 2009. Photo: Reuters
A Caterpillar spokesperson declined to comment on the company’s position on the OECD agreement, as did a spokesperson for the organization Financial Executives International, which spent $25,674 on federal lobbying related at least partially to the main objective of the OECD agreement in the first quarter of this year and which called the pact “a directed attack on U.S. multinationals and their tax-planning proficiency.” International Business Machines Corp., which spent $1.13 million on federal lobbying at least in part on the project in the first three months of 2017, and the National Foreign Trade Council, which spent $65,000 over the same period, did not respond to requests for comment from International Business Times. (Lobbying files list issues on which companies and organizations attempt to sway legislation, not their positions on that legislation.)
The Business Roundtable — an advocacy group representing chief executives of large corporations, which counts Caterpillar’s CEO as a member — spent $2.31 million in federal lobbying on issues that included the OECD initiative in the first quarter of 2017. Although the group did not respond to IBT questions, the chair of its Tax and Fiscal Policy Committee, EY chief executive Mark Weinberger, wrote a letter to former Treasury Secretary Jack Lew in April 2016 urging the Obama administration to “accept” the OECD project. Weinberger cited compliance burdens in the event the U.S. did not embrace the agreement.
Sempra Energy, which a federal lobbying document shows spent $470,000 in lobbying at least in part on the issue in the first three months of 2017, said in a statement that it “was not active in lobbying against” the agreement.
Sempra Energy, a natural gas utilities holding company, spent nearly half a million dollars in lobbying efforts at the federal level at least in part related to the OECD agreement on corporate tax treaties. Above, the Sempra Energy building was photographed in San Diego, March 10, 2015. Photo: Reuters
Sempra was likely not alone. As in the case of the climate accord, of the American multinational firms and organizations that collectively spent millions of dollars in lobbying efforts related to the OECD project in the first quarter, some actually favored the agreement. They had good reason to, according to experts. In addition to reining in efforts to evade corporate taxes, the OECD sought to codify or streamline corporate tax accords around the globe, simplifying compliance for firms with global operations.
Saint-Amans, of the OECD, said he believed the U.S. business community was “sad” about America’s failure to sign on. Tax expert Lawrence Zlatkin, writing for Bloomberg BNA, noted that “with the rest of the world moving along” with the agreement, “we should expect reaction, potential double taxation and other adverse consequences.” Gascoigne, of the FACT Coalition, pointed out that, absent the U.S. signing the OECD agreement, the American government “will have to go around with countries one by one to negotiate treaties,” a practice he said “diverts business resources away from productive investments and into tax planning shenanigans.”
The missing U.S. signature also affects the American government’s reputation as a global leader, as well as ordinary Americans who “are footing the bill for this,” Gascoigne said. 
This article originally appeared on the Motley Fool.
It would be difficult to find a pair of stocks investors would have been better off owning over the past decade than the payment network duopoly of Mastercard Inc (NYSE:MA) and Visa Inc (NYSE:V). Both stocks have produced phenomenal returns for investors since going public. Since March 2008, Mastercard has returned 481% and Visa has risen 570%. This compares to the S&P 500's meager-by-comparison 75% overall gains over the same period.
In addition to sharing almost identical gains over almost a decade in trading, the two companies share almost identical business models as well. In the 2016 BrandZ Survey of Top 100 Global Brands, Visa is said to have the world's sixth most valuable brand; Mastercard ranks 20th. According to the Nilson Report, Visa facilitated 139 billion transactions worldwide in 2016, representing 54% of the total number of card transactions. Mastercard negotiated 67.3 billion card transactions, good for 26% of global volume. In most consumers' minds the two companies are largely interchangeable, with both sporting high levels of awareness and trust.
And that's how I had always thought of the two companies; that both offered nearly identical services for nearly identical prices. Lately, though, I've begun to wonder: Has Mastercard surpassed Visa as the premier payment network? No, I don't mean in size. Visa is unquestionably the larger of the two but, rather, in terms of services and capabilities that Mastercard can offer its different customers such as financial institutions, merchants, and consumers.
• Motley Fool Issues Rare Triple-Buy Alert
Spoiler alert: It is undoubtedly too early to tell, yet here is my case for why I believe Mastercard might be on its way to outclassing Visa.
The case for Mastercard
In the past couple of years, Mastercard has introduced a number of innovative security products and features that enhance payment convenience.
In 2016, Mastercard introduced its Mastercard Identity Check in diffrent markets around the world. Popularly known as "Selfie Pay," the program allows account holders to opt into the program that requires users to take a picture of themselves to authenticate "card not present" transactions. Later in 2016, Mastercard followed "Selfie Pay" up by launching a new AI-powered security platform, Decision Intelligence, a service that "uses artificial intelligence technology to help financial institutions increase the accuracy of real-time approvals of genuine transactions and reduce false declines."
Earlier this year, Mastercard acquired NuData Security, a company that uses passive biometrics to prevent fraudulent transactions. The company claims its products can authenticate purchases by intimately knowing consumers' digital profiles, which includes things like the way they type on their keyboards or even how they hold their smartphones. A month later, Mastercard announced it would be introducing a card with a fingerprint scan on the card itself. Banga said the card had recently finished successful trials in South Africa and would soon be given more test runs in markets across Asia and Europe.
Mastercard's biggest and potentially most transformative acquisition, however, is VocaLink, which is a recent purchase. VocaLink gives Mastercard access to ACH payment rails in addition to its own proprietary payment rails. ACH, or Automatic Clearing House, is an electronic payments network that could probably best be described as writing an electronic check. the network is commonly used for direct deposit, payroll, and other business payments. As Banga stated in the quarter's conference call, this new asset allows Mastercard to approach banks with a whole host of offered solutions:
I just think the opportunity to be able to go to any customer in the world and both the bank and a merchant and even a consumer eventually, and show them... from a MasterCard card to using Mastercard Send for P2P to using ACH capability. As we get the capability from VocaLink embedded across our system and as we can do it at different levels of complexity in different countries.
Making things easier for investors, Mastercard reports the revenue it earns from its security, data analytics, and loyalty program management services, into what it unceremoniously refers to as its "Other Revenues". For several quarters, this was Mastercard's fastest-growing revenue segment, routinely growing by more than 20% over the previous year's corresponding quarter. In its recently reported first quarter, this changed due to some recategorizing of loyalty service revenue in Asia, so it "only" reported $561 million in revenue, a "mere" 13% increase year over year. On an apples-to-apples basis, the increase would have been an even more robust 18%.
Visa, however, does not separately break out its revenue streams in this manner, so it is more difficult to tell how much money it makes by selling comparable services.
Visa's rebuttal
Late last month, at the annual J.P. Morgan Global Technology, Media, and Telecom Conference, Visa CEO Al Kelly addressed these concerns. Taken from the S&P Capital IQ transcript, Kelly stated that he didn't see a reason why Visa needed access to an ACH network and almost acted as if he was a bit confused why Mastercard even acquired VocaLink. Kelly stated:
VocaLink, look, somebody would have to ask MasterCard what their logic is and how they feel about it and what their game plan is? Our view is that we have a perfectly terrific answer to VocaLink, which is something we call Visa Direct. We have direct connections to the banks around the world ... and by the way, Visa Direct is global, whereas most ACH solutions, including VocaLink is domestic. There's no reason why they ultimately probably can't package it in such a way and offer it domestically in other markets. But it is -- today, it's a U.K. domestic solution. So we're not really plussed by it. I think that we feel like we've got a good answer in Visa Direct.
Of course, Mastercard is planning to package VocaLink's ACH capabilities in markets around the world. And while, yes, Visa Direct, does offer the same capabilities as ACH payments, the simple fact is that it doesn't seem to have made a major dent in ACH volume. Neither is it used very much for the types of transactions that ACH is known for, like payroll and direct deposits.
• This Stock Could Be Like Buying Amazon in 1997
In 2015, the National Automated Clearing House Association (NACHA) reported that ACH networks moved $41 trillion dollars over 24 billion electronic transactions. Immediately after Mastercard acquired VocaLink, Banga stated ACH transactions accounted for about half of all payment volume in the world's fifty most developed countries.
At the same J.P. Morgan conference, when asked by an analyst if he planned to place security services as high of a priority as Mastercard, Kelly seemingly grew indignant, denying there was any difference in how these services were prioritized between the two companies. Again, taken from the S&P Capital IQ transcript, Kelly responded:
I would say that I've learned not to agree with that. We -- as I've gone around and met with all of these financial service partners, not once has somebody said to me, you've got an issue, your services are not sufficient or inferior to MasterCard. We believe we offer virtually the same types of services to all of our customers. We sometimes charge for them, sometimes we don't, sometimes they're built into the deal, sometimes they are not. But across our 4 primary revenue lines in our P&L is an awful lot of services, we provide help to financial institutions in terms of Advertising Solutions, Loyalty Solutions, Offers Platforms, Reward Redemption Platforms. We offer a whole bunch of data and analytics and consulting types of services. We offer all kinds of fraud and risk services. And then we offer all kinds of digital services in terms of tokenization, Visa Checkout, Visa Direct, which I was just talking about. And in many cases -- or in some cases, we're paid for those. In other cases, our philosophy is to provide them to our partners and if it helps them grow their business, ours will grow in tandem with them. So while it has tended to be broken out and made a big deal of by MasterCard, I think I'm very comfortable with where we are.
This is a much tougher statement to analyze. Since Visa doesn't break out its revenues in the same way, it's impossible to know what kind of revenue Visa's comparable services generate. Nothing in Visa's numbers indicates it is struggling to grow. Quite the opposite: In Visa's most recently reported quarter the company reported revenue of $4.5 billion, a 23% increase year over year, and adjusted earnings of $0.86, a 21% increase. It's also not like Visa has done nothing on this front: Just last December, Visa acquired the digital commerce security firm, CardinalCommerce. Most importantly, not one major bank or financial institution has left the Visa umbrella for any reason in recent years, much less for reasons of insufficient services.
What should investors do now?
Investors already invested in Mastercard or Visa, should do nothing. Both companies sport superior business models, allowing them to make money on card transactions without taking on any credit risk. The ultimate losers in this arms race might very well be American Express Company (NYSE: AXP) and Discover Financial Services (NYSE: DFS), not Visa.
Mastercard investors, might want to consider adding more to their position. The money they are generating from these bundled services is providing a serious "oomph" to its earnings. Visa investors should continue to follow the company's earnings and look for signs the business might be starting to lag its biggest rival. More importantly, shareholders should browse through company headlines to see if banks or other financial institutions jump ship to Mastercard.
• 7 of 8 People Are Clueless About This Trillion-Dollar Market
Investors in both companies have enjoyed superior returns for years, and there is little evidence that that will stop anytime soon.
Matthew Cochrane owns shares of Mastercard. The Motley Fool owns shares of and recommends Mastercard and Visa. The Motley Fool recommends American Express. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
Sears Holdings Corp. will shut down over 70 more stores this year, according to reports Wednesday. This would be in addition to more than 180 stores that the company said would be closed down.
In January, Sears announced it would be shutting down 150 stores and, in May, added at least 30 more stores to that list, which includes Sears, Kmart and Sears Auto Center.   The store list, circulated internally, was obtained by Business Insider. Most of the outlets will be closed by September and clearance sales at these locations will begin soon.
Read: JC Penney Stores Closure 2017: Full List Of Outlets Retailer Is Closing This Year
Sears will be shutting down its stores in some cities in California, Georgia, Mississippi, North Carolina, North Dakota, New Jersey, Ohio, Oklahoma, Virginia, South Carolina, Texas and Utah. While Kmart will closing down some stores in Alabama, Arkansas, Arizona, Sacramento and Manteca in California, Georgia, Iowa, Massachusetts, Maryland, Michigan, New Jersey, New Mexico, Nevada, New York, Ohio, Oklahoma, Oregon, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, Virginia, Wisconsin, West Virginia, Wyoming and Utah.
Sears Auto Center will shut some stores in Ohio, Oklahoma, South Carolina, Texas, Virginia and Utah.
To check complete store list, click here.
With the latest closures, Sears’ store count will be about 1,200, compared to 2,073 five years ago, according to AL.com. The shutting down is a part of the company’s “operational restructuring efforts,” a source told the Los Angeles Times.
The Chicago-based company has been facing financial problems for some time. In March, concerns about Sears going bankrupt surfaced.
"Our historical operating results indicate substantial doubt exists related to the company's ability to continue as a going concern," Sears said in an annual filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission, at the time.
However, the company also assured its investors that nothing was changed and it was doing fine.
"Sears remains focused on executing our transformation plan and will continue to take actions to help ensure our competitiveness and ability to continue to meet our financial obligations," Jason Hollar, the company’s chief financial officer, said.
A Credit Suisse report released last week predicted between 20 percent and 25 percent of the country’s shopping malls will close down in the next five years as growing number of shoppers buy online. Other stores such as Macy’s and J.C. Penney announced closures of several stores this year. American Apparel and BCBG Max Azria have filed for bankruptcy and Bebe shut down all of its stores. According to the report, about 8,640 stores will close by the end of the year.
In February, J.C. Penney said it would provide employees affected by the closure a “voluntary early retirement program” depending on their age and tenure. Those eligible were given time until March 31 to inform the company whether they will accept the offer.
Electric car maker Tesla will roll out a software update over the weekend for Model X vehicles that are affected by faulty software for the passenger-side airbags, according to reports Wednesday. The Elon Musk company informed the owners of the affected vehicles by email, asking them to not use the front passenger seat till they received the software update, as a precaution.
The exact trouble with the airbags — which was found during “routine internal tests this week” — has not been specified by Tesla in the email to its customers, and the company referred to it only as “an anomaly with the passenger airbag… After reviewing the results of this test, we were able to isolate the anomaly to the software controlling the passenger airbags in right-hand-drive Model X cars only.”
Read: Elon Musk Turned Down Tesla-Uber Partnership Offer Made By Travis Kalanick
The logo of German car supplier Robert Bosch GmbH is displayed in front of the company's headquarters in Gerlingen near Stuttgart, southwestern Germany, April 18, 2013. Photo: Thomas Kienzle/AFP/Getty Images
The airbag control module and associated software in question came from German multinational Bosch, which is among the world’s largest suppliers of automotive parts. Tesla is “already developing an over-the-air software update” and “will be deploying that update to all affected cars this weekend” to fix the unspecified problem with the Bosch control module, according to reports. There have been no reports of any Model X customers that have faced a problem so far because of the software bug.
Like Tesla said in the email, not all Model X SUVs have been affected by what will be termed a “voluntary recall.” About 4,000 vehicles, all of them right-hand-drive, will need the update. That means Model X owners in the United States have nothing to be concerned about, while some vehicle owners in countries like the Australia, New Zealand, and the United Kingdom will have to wait for the weekend before they can have a passenger in the front seat.
“There is no need to bring your vehicle into service. All you need to do is accept the over-the-air software update that we will be deploying to your car. In the meantime, as a precaution, we recommend that the front passenger seat of your vehicle not be occupied until the software update is installed,” the email to customers said.
A Tesla Model X vehicle is charged by a supercharger outside a Tesla electric car dealership in Sydney, May 31, 2017. Photo: Reuters/Jason Reed
Read: Tesla-Toyota Partnership, Japanese Car Maker Will Develop Its Own Electric Vehicle
Insofar as recalls go, this could be the first instance of an online recall anywhere in the world. But bringing in your car to the dealership or a service center isn’t going away anytime soon.
Even Tesla is doing physical replacement of the passenger-side airbags in all Model S sedans produced in 2012, as a part of a larger industry-wide recall of faulty airbags manufactured by Japanese supplier Takata. Eventually, all Model S vehicles manufactured up to late 2016 will be recalled, Tesla said as a part of its recall announcement in January. That recall affects all Model S variants everywhere in the world unless the manufacturing date was after late 2016. The company said it was offering the replacement around the world as a precaution, since “the safety of our customers is paramount.”
Tesla also recalled some Model S and Model X vehicles in Australia in May, reportedly over an issue with the electric park brake.
Canadian-American entrepreneur Elon Musk is filled with joy to learn that SpaceX, his rocket startup company, conquered a $6 million California lawsuit Wednesday against a former employee. According to Law360, the employee claimed to be "wrongfully fired" in the lawsuit.
On Twitter, a user tweeted at Musk to congratulate him for winning this "hard thought piece of litigation."
"Thanks :) Such an outrageous lawsuit," Musk responded on Twitter Wednesday. "People sometimes underestimate strength of US judiciary. Lot of respect for the judge & jury system."
Thanks :) Such an outrageous lawsuit. People sometimes underestimate strength of US judiciary. Lot of respect for the judge & jury system.
— Elon Musk (@elonmusk) June 7, 2017
The lawsuit Musk was referring to was settled Wednesday by a group of Los Angeles jurors. In the case, former employee Jason Blasdell sued the Hawthorne, California-based space-tech company because of a disagreement regarding his performance on the job. Blasdell asserted that he only lost the job "in retaliation for his taking his concern about improper testing procedures," according to Bloomberg.
These concerns were apparently voiced to Blasdell's supervisors, the chief operating officer, and Musk.
Read: Elon Musk And Leonardo DiCaprio Stand By Climate Change After Trump Ditches Paris Agreement
Carney Shegerian, Blasdell's attorney, made a final argument to the jury on Tuesday regarding her client's desire for SpaceX to follow the law. She claimed that Blasdell was someone who "tried to do the right thing" and it ultimately cost him his "dream job," Law360 noted. 
According to Bloomberg, Blasdell never openly voiced his concerns of improper testing procedures with any of the company's higher-ups. Instead, he was eventually terminated since "he had become disruptive and his co-workers were concerned about their safety."
Read: Elon Musk On Twitter: SpaceX, Tesla CEO 'Cautiously Optimistic' Paris Agreement Is Safe Under Trump
To help Musk celebrate this major milestone for SpaceX, Twitter naturally chimed in to discuss the news.
As you've said before, it's not what they know but who they are when it comes to choosing folks to hire. You dropped the ball on this one!
— Just A. Tinker (@John_Gardi) June 7, 2017
Who they are isnt always apparent.Sometimes the truth of character is only revealed w/time when left 2their own intent&self serving intrest
— Phoenix Rosa (@ThePhoenixFlare) June 7, 2017
In Musk we trust!
— tree hugger (@hugtree911) June 7, 2017
See @realDonaldTrump ? That's how you deal with the judicial system.
— Adam Robertson (@RobboAdam) June 7, 2017
I think people when they lose there jobs are willing to do anything to hurt a company they previously worked for. Even if its dishonest.
— James P. Potter Jr. (@JahPaddy) June 7, 2017
I'm glad it went your way Elon, i have tremendous respect for the work you are doing
— Duncan Frazier (@DuncanFrazier3) June 7, 2017
Now that the past is behind Musk, he can continue to work alongside SpaceX on more important tasks, including a newly acquired contract to create a secret Air Force plane for space. 
On Wednesday, it was announced that SpaceX would launch the unmanned space plane in late 2017. According to CNN, the Air Force's decision to go with SpaceX created a transition in power within the industry because it "edged out United Launch Alliance." ULA initially had control over a majority of the US' military launches. 
Nonetheless, SpaceX continues to soar on. 
Elon Musk, pictured as he attends a forum on startups in Hong Kong, June 1, 2017. Photo: Reuters
During an August 2016 earnings conference for SolarCity, a company for which Elon Musk served on the board, he asked, “What if we can offer you a roof that looks way better than a normal roof? That lasts far longer than a normal roof?” The business magnate added, “Different ball game.” But the kind of solar tiles he was speaking of that resembled real roof tiles were nowhere close to being ready, according to a Fast Company piece detailing the merger between Tesla and SolarCity.
SolarCity was a company started by brothers Peter and Lyndon Rive in 2006. The brothers started the solar company with help from their cousin Elon Musk in the form of a ten million dollar investment. The company sold solar panel systems using an innovative lease system. They would sell the roofs as leases, taking on a lot of the upfront cost, and use government solar tax credits to help defray the cost.
Read: Elon Musk And Leonardo DiCaprio Stand By Climate Change After Trump Ditches Paris Agreement
The company did well at first, growing exponentially before finally going public in 2012. Their stocks grew through 2014 before a few factors led to trouble.
The solar company started to feel that it had grown too fast and was publically spread thin. The solar market wasn’t as bullish as before, and SolarCity’s stocks fell 77 percent from their 2014 high. According to Fast Company, that’s when Musk stepped in.
Because of conflicts of interest, the companies had to operate separately and distanced from each other. But Musk wanted Tesla to acquire SolarCity. Musk said a solar roof company with installation services would fit in perfectly with what Tesla was doing. In 2015 Tesla developed a battery called the Powerall, designed for storing energy to power homes.
Musk sold the idea of the future, pushing solar tiles that looked like regular house tiles to shareholders and analysts before the tiles were ready to be manufactured. Musk wasn’t even thrilled with some of the initial solar tile products SolarCity were making.
The merger happened in late 2016, Tesla acquired the solar company for just under three billion dollars. Currently, SolarCity has not quite reached its projections for tile outputs, and one of its founders, Lyndon Rives, has left the company.
Read: Elon Musk On Twitter: SpaceX, Tesla CEO 'Cautiously Optimistic' Paris Agreement Is Safe Under Trump
Tesla is underway preparing for the release of its newest car, the Model Three, which is set to begin rolling out in 2018. The company took 373,000 reservations for the car, each made with a $1,000 deposit.
Musk has continued to push his idea for an environmentally friendly future, regardless of the what the motivation of the SolarCity deal was. Just last week he made a statement by publically announcing he would leave the White House advisory council he was on. This was in reaction to President Donald Trump’s decision to pull the United States out of the Paris Climate Accords, breaking with former President Obama’s environmentally friendly agenda.
France could be the first country to have fully autonomous cars on the road next year. The Associated Press reported that French companies Delphi and Transdev will partner to create taxi and shuttle services that transport passengers without a driver.
The testing will start with on-demand driverless vehicles in Normandy and a van service that will shuttle passengers between a train station and the campus of the University of Paris Saclay. The route between the campus and train station is aimed at addressing a "first mile-last mile" gap in public transportation, getting people from their final destinations and start points to public transit.
Read: Google Waymo Self-Driving Cars Project Now Includes Testing Driverless Truck Technology
The services will begin with humans on board to give instruction before the planned fully autonomous phase in 2018. This would be the first completely driverless program on open roads.
The Normandy taxis will be Zoes, the electric mini-cars made by French automaker Renault.
Transdev is a company that provides mobility services and operations in 19 countries including the U.S. Seventy percent of the company is owned by France, while 30 percent is owned by Veolia, a transnational conglomerate that works in water and waste management and energy services.
Delphi is a U.K.-based tech company that focuses on automotive and transportation. Delphi’s driverless system is being developed with Israeli company Mobileye and is in partnership with U.S. multinational tech company Dell.
“This latest announcement will help accelerate the development of commercially viable automated vehicle solutions,” said Glen De Vos, Delphi senior vice president and chief technology officer in a statement.
“With Transdev’s deep understanding of mobility operations, this collaboration will further strengthen our (automated on demand) and data management capabilities, while expanding our automated driving platform to include a variety of different vehicle types. As a result, we’re confident this collaboration brings us closer to providing all of our customers and partners with an affordable, reliable and scalable automated driving and mobility-on-demand platform.” 
The partnership hopes to scale up its operations to eventually provide its service throughout France in 2019. They also have their eyes on moving the operation to other countries including the U.S.
Stateside there are several driverless car pilots underway as the race to be the first and best automated car maker to market heats up. In January in Las Vegas, French company Navya tested a public bus with the city’s transit operator, Keolis, another French company.
In Boston, tech company nuTonomy is testing driverless cars in a closed setting and the city will allow them to expand the pilot onto open roads.
Last year, Google began testing its Waymo driverless car in Arizona. Cruise Automation, a start-up acquired by General Motors, has been testing its technology in Arizona and San Francisco.
Read: Are Driverless Cars Safe? Automotive Vehicles May Cause Over-Reliance
Ride-hailing app giant Uber has been testing its driverless cars in Arizona, as well as San Francisco and Pittsburgh. Uber’s program is part of a $300 million partnership with Swedish automaker Volvo.
Ford has been testing its fleet in Arizona, Michigan and California. The American automaker hopes to roll out driverless cars to market by 2021.
Autonomous car from Delphi  Photo: Stephen Lam/REUTERS
Uber faces heat as the popular driving app had to let go more than 20 employees Tuesday after an investigation into several sexual harassment claims. Employees were informed at a staff meeting that 215 harassment claims had been further examined.
Read: Uber Looks To Calm Outrage After Surge Pricing During London Attacks
While sexual harassment claims proved to be what were most widely reported, CNN also noted that the 215 claims investigated for employee termination included incidents of "unprofessional behavior and bullying."
An Uber spokesperson told Bloomberg that 31 employees are in counseling or training, while seven others have received written warnings from the company. At this time, a list of the dismissed employees has not been revealed, but the newly terminated employees reportedly included a few senior executives. 
The investigations stemmed from accusations that Susan Fowler, a former Uber engineer, made in a long blog post published in February. Fowler decided to reveal her "strange, fascinating, and slightly horrifying story" of her supervisor's harassment because it needed "to be told." 
"He was trying to stay out of trouble at work, he said, but he couldn't help getting in trouble, because he was looking for women to have sex with," Fowler wrote. "It was clear that he was trying to get me to have sex with him, and it was so clearly out of line that I immediately took screenshots of these chat messages and reported him to HR."
Read: Uber’s Surge Pricing Tactic During London Bridge Terror Attack Ignites Social Media Outrage
Fowler's story also claimed that Uber's HR department didn't want to punish her supervisor because he "was a high performer." Therefore, they tried to hide the complaints she made against him. However, the Los Angeles Times noted that Travis Kalanick, the company's chief executive, stated that the supervisor's behavior was "abhorrent and against everything Uber stands for and believes in." Thus, the investigative process began.
While all eyes are on Uber after their decision to fire over 20 employees for harassment and other problematic claims, the ride-sharing company is no stranger to controversy.
International Business Times rounded up five of the most controversial issues that have plagued the company below.
UBER’S SURGE PRICES INCREASE DURING LONDON ATTACKS
With many London citizens in the midst of danger during terrorist attacks that hit the city last week, many turned to the ride-share app to for safety.
Although several London taxi drivers offered free rides to get people out of the area safely, those that opted for Uber discovered that the app applied surge pricing, a charge that usually pops during high-demand or rush hour times.
Several Londoners that used Uber during the terrorist attacks flocked to Twitter to voice their complaints. One user tweeted, "Hey @Uber -- you're really going to surge price x2.1 during a terrorist attack in #London??? Lower than low."
"As soon as we heard about the incident, we immediately suspended dynamic pricing all around the area of the attacks," said Tom Elvidge, Uber’s London general manager, in a statement. "Shortly afterwards across the whole of central London — just as we did following the attacks in Manchester and Westminster."
Uber eventually refunded fares to quell users' anger.
UBER'S ONGOING WAR AGAINST LYFT
It's common knowledge that Lyft is a direct competitor of Uber. 
In 2014, Uber’s "brand ambassadors" were given fake phones and credit cards to order rides from Lyft. But they were instructed to cancel them minutes before arrival. According to the Observer, a total of 5,560 fake rides have been submitted by Uber employees. While Uber denied any such allegations, the Verge revealed Uber’s secret “playbook” to destroy its competitor. The article included actual documents and images to back up the claims.
In a 2014 Vanity Fair profile on Kalanick, the CEO came clean regarding his company's executive decision to mess with Lyft's fundraising efforts.
"We knew that Lyft was going to raise a ton of money,” he told Vanity Fair. "And we are going [to their funders], 'Just so you know, we’re going to be fund-raising after this, so before you decide whether you want to invest in them, just make sure you know that we are going to be fund-raising immediately after.'"
UBER TRACKS USERS
In April 2017, a claim began to circulate that the ride service tracked users even once they've deleted the application. According to The Hill, Washington lawmakers were looking into "calling for hearings to examine Uber’s potentially invasive practices" since this would be a violation of the first amendment. 
Apple's CEO Tim Cook discovered Uber's sneaky practice in 2015, according to the New York Times. Cook warned Kalanick to knock it off or Uber would no longer have a presence on iPhone's App Store.
As New York Magazine noted, "this is a typical way to prevent fraudsters from loading Uber onto a stolen phone, putting in a stolen credit card, taking an expensive ride and then wiping the phone—over and over again." 
"We absolutely do not track individual users or their location if they’ve deleted the app," said an Uber spokesperson of the accusation, according to The Hill.
UBER'S RELATIONSHIP WITH DRIVERS
Uber had slashed the fares of their drivers in 2015 and 2016, according to the Observer.
Taylor Bennett, a Washington DC Uber representative, told the Observer in 2015, "The point of the price cut is to increase demand and efficiency. When drivers finish a trip, there is automatically a new demand or new request, as opposed to driving across the city. It increases the efficiency, and therefore earnings increase."
Drivers, however, didn't benefit from the business model shift as they had to "work harder for less money." Naturally, protests were held against Uber's treatment of their drivers in San Franciso, Tampa and several other US cities. 
UBER'S CEO'S COMMENTS ON COMPANY
In February 2017, a video surfaced of Kalanick arguing with a UberBlack driver over the change in fares.
Fawzi Kamel, the UberBlack driver, confronted Kalanick about the slashed fares. According to New York Magazine, the driver claimed he had to file for bankruptcy because of the decrease in fares. 
"Some people don’t like to take responsibility for their own s***," Kalinich said before leaving Kamel’s car. "They blame everything in their life on somebody else. Good luck!"
Kalanick later issued an apology to Kamel in an email to his staff, according to Bloomberg.
"To say that I am ashamed is an extreme understatement," Kalanich said. "My job as your leader is to lead…and that starts with behaving in a way that makes us all proud. That is not what I did, and it cannot be explained away."
Uber, a logo of the company pictured June 5, 2017, the company faces heat after firing 20 employees for sexual harassment.  Photo: Reuters
The oil and gas industry is a major player in Colorado politics — it has spent more than $25 million on state and local races since 2014. This spending has given the industry a considerable amount of influence in the state legislature, where it has repeatedly opposed efforts to increase safety and oversight of the 53,000 active oil and gas wells in the state. Leaks at some Colorado wells have led to deadly explosions in recent months. 
One of the people fighting for drilling transparency and safety is Democratic state Rep. Mike Foote, who has written several safety bills passed by the Democratic-controlled House that ulimately died in the Senate, where the Republicans have the majority. One of those recent bills would have prohibited drilling within 1,000 feet of school property. Foote sat down with International Business Times’ David Sirota to discuss his efforts to protect public safety in Colorado and the oil and gas lobby’s grip on the state politics.  Audio of the conversation is available below. 

Sirota: Why do you believe oil and gas drilling should be restricted near schools? 
Foote: This is an area that the oil and gas industry and I would disagree: I don't think you need to drill everywhere. I think there's some places where you really shouldn't be drilling and one of those places will be right next to a school. Right now, the rules that we have allow drilling to be right next to a school's athletic facility or a school's playground or other auxiliary type of facility. It basically says you can drill a thousand feet away from the front door of the school and we all know that there's lots of other facilities on the school grounds besides just the school building. We have seen all kinds of drilling going on right next to school facilities.
The whole premise of the bill was that you shouldn't be putting these dangerous industrial activities next to school facilities because bad things can happen. Human error can happen, accidents can happen, things can explode, things can leak, there can be air issues, all of those things really shouldn't be next to a football field, a baseball field or a playground, et cetera.
I did propose this bill, the oil and gas industry immediately came out against it. In fact, I think it was about two hours after I had forwarded a copy of the draft of the bill to the industry that they were sending out press releases about how they were opposed to the bill. They claimed that it was going to put large swaths of Colorado off-limits to drilling. In fact, it's quite the opposite, it really wouldn't have put that much off-limits to drilling. Even so, even if it would have put a lot of Colorado off-limits to drilling, my point is that accidents can happen and you shouldn't be putting things that can explode next to schools. That's just the bottom line as far as I'm concerned.

Read: Oil And Gas Industry Power Builds Wells Near Schools In Colorado, Trumping Environmental Concerns
Sirota: What you just said seems so obvious: you don't want to put things that could explode next to places where there are lots of children. Apparently though, we needed, or you believe we needed, that piece of legislation.
I want to go back to one thing that you said because I think it's really important, and that's the impact of the bill. The state legislative office that reviews legislation actually said something along the lines of it would have a negligible or unbelievably minimal effect on the state budget, and the state budget, in part, gets revenues from oil and gas activities. The point being that the nonpartisan state legislative office that advises the legislators said this would have a negligible effect and yet there was major pushback to the bill. The question that I have from that is if the industry knows that, if the industry says, "Look, Mike Foote's bill is not, unto itself, going to impact our revenues," why do you think they then, nonetheless, push back so hard on it?
Foote: I'll just add something to what you said, which is that according to the Oil and Gas Conservation Commission, this bill or something close to it would have put off-limits maybe .008 percent of the available land that's available now, so it very much was minimal. I mean, really, the bottom line is that the oil and gas industry controls the capitol right now. If they don't want a bill to pass, even if it's something as small as this, then it won't pass. Over the last several years, they've taken a zero-sum approach where if somebody proposes something that would affect them and they don't like that for whatever reason, they just oppose it and the bill dies. That's really, cutting it to the chase, exactly what happened here. It's too bad. I mean, we should be able to discuss these things and make appropriate changes but they weren't really in the mood to do that and, more importantly, they didn't have to.
Sirota: Now, for folks who don't know about Colorado's breakdown of the legislature, the Democrats have a majority in the House and the Republicans have a majority in the Senate. The Republicans in the Senate have their fundraising apparatus, and the groups that support their reelection campaigns have gotten a huge amount of money from the oil and gas industry. One group, for instance, got about $738,000 just in the last election cycle, the group that supported the Senate Republican campaigns. How much do you think that money influences Republican legislatures when they're thinking about these issues?
Foote:  Well, the oil and gas industry is, as you said, a huge contributor to Republicans, one of the main reasons why Republicans are in control over the state Senate and there's just no way around that. It's not been that way just since 2016, it's been that way for years, for a long time. They just have this partnership with the Republican Party and that if you're a Republican and you are thinking about voting the opposite way of what the industry wants you to vote, it just wouldn't be a very smart idea to do that if you're a Republican.

Sirota: Let's talk about what's happened. Your bill came up, you proposed it, it was voted down by the Senate Republicans in April and a few days later, there was a deadly explosion in Firestone, Colorado, near an oil and gas well owned by Anadarko. It was later found out by investigators that it had to do, they believed, with a line that led to the well. Do you believe the explosion confirms your fears? If it does, why do you think, even after the explosion happened, the bill still didn't go anywhere? In other words, some people might say that and say, "Hey, Mike Foote was saying that this is a dangerous situation and his bill was blocked. In the middle of the legislature, an explosion happened so in theory, maybe the bill should come back up," but it didn't. Why?
Foote: Well, a couple of things about that. First, to a certain extent, it did confirm the fears but it really didn't in a certain way because explosions and fires have happened before and they happen every now and again. In fact, in the bill presentation for the school setback bill, I cited a number of fires and explosions, one of which was in Frederick, which is close to Firestone, in 2014 where a nearby school had to shelter in place. The kids had to shelter in place because the fire was going on, it was burning uncontrollably for about three hours while the kids were in school. There are other incidents as well. It just so happens because of what happened and the tragedy that happened in Firestone, a lot more people are paying attention to it now. If you go back and take a look at the statistics and what's reported, these things happen and they happen too often. Once is too often, but they happen way too often. That was the entire premise of the bill before Firestone even happened.
You're right that the bill was killed just before the explosion occurred. Then you have to remember, there was about a three-week period or so when the investigation was going on as to the cause and origin so we didn't know exactly what had caused that explosion, it could have been anything. It turns out that it was because of a severed flow line.
Sirota: After the explosion, you had another bill that you're working on, on an issue called forced pooling and it's a technical industry term. Tell us what forced pooling is and tell us what your bill proposed. I think people can already guess that what happened was it ended up being, again, passed by the House and then being blocked in the Senate. What is forced pooling and what were you trying to do on that?
Foote: Well, forced pooling is really a corporate eminent domain that the oil and gas industry gets to exercise. People know what eminent domain is by a local government, for example. This is the same thing, but the oil and gas industry gets to force a mineral rights owner to lease their minerals to that operator. Now, let's say that you have a pool of oil and gas resources and 30% of the mineral rights owners want to lease their mineral rights, that means 70% don't want to. Those 70% can then be forced to lease their mineral rights to an oil and gas operator in order for those minerals to be extracted.
It could be people don't want to sell right then because they don't think the price is right, it could be because they just don't want to sell, they want to pass it along to their future generations, it could be a county open space type of territory where the voters funded the open space to be open space and not to be available for oil and gas drilling. It could be all of those things. Because of the way our law was written and because corporate eminent domain and forced pooling is allowed, those mineral rights owners can be forced to lease.
Sirota: In real world terms, if I'm living in a community and an oil and gas company buys the rights to a pool of oil and gas underneath the community, and 30 percent of the people who own the rights sell it to the oil and gas company but I say, "I don't want them drilling under my land, I don't want them on my land. I own the rights, I don't want it," under Colorado's law, the company can force me effectively to allow for that drilling and exploration underneath my property.
Foote: Yeah. It's even worse than that, it's not just the 30 percent ratio. It's just if there's one mineral rights owner that they convince to sell their mineral rights, then the other 99 percent of the mineral rights owners that don't want to sell can be forced to sell."
Sirota: Come on, you're telling me if there's 100 property owners and one says, "Okay, oil and gas company, I let you drill for some of that oil and gas underneath my home," the other 99 have to say "okay"?
Foote: That's right. Now, that's not how it usually happens, usually the industry has more than that. There's a subdivision right now just south of my district, in Broomfield, where it seems to be... We don't have the figures because only the industry knows this. That's part of the bill: we wanted the public to know it, we wanted the commission know it. It seems that it was about 5 percent, maybe 8 percent of the mineral rights ownership agreed to lease the mineral rights. The other ones did not want to, yet the other ones are being forced to do it and there's going to be large-scale developments in the middle of that neighborhood.
Workers put the final touches on a natural gas well platform owned by Encana south of Parachute, Colorado, Dec. 8, 2014.  Photo: Reuters
Sirota: Before we get into what happened with your bill, if you know it, what's the history of this? Because you hear all this folklore about how the Rocky Mountain West is all about property rights and the frontier people and people who are very focused on their own land and their own individual rights, how did this happen? How is it allowed to happen?
Foote: Well, this isn't unique to Colorado, there's forced pooling laws all around the country, I don't know if it's every state but many states have them. The premise of it and the reason why it was put into place makes sense. Just imagine you have this underground pool of oil, that's not how it exists right now, it's more just going through rock and fracking for the oil and gas. But let's say you have this underground pool of oil and you have, say, 95 percent of the mineral rights interest want to sell but 5 percent don't. Well, it seems that the 95 percent should be able to have the minerals extracted and be able to use that property right, you don't want to have just 5 percent or 1 percent objecting and making sure that nobody can get any kind of mineral rights. So that makes sense.
Now, the nature of oil and gas drilling has certainly changed since the old days. Now, what you have is you don't have to use the system the way it was used before. Before, if you had this pool, you would have to put a drilling derrick in one yard and then the next person's yard and then the next person's yard and all the way down the line. I think you can imagine that's not a very good use of resources and that messes with people's surface property rights as well so that makes sense. Things have changed since then and the premise of the bill was that we need to update our statutes to reflect that change.
Sirota: Again, it was voted down. It got into the Republican Senate where the Republican legislators have gotten a huge amount of money and help  by the oil and gas industry and it was voted down.
Foote: Same old story.
Sirota: Now, the thing about this is, it's one thing to be a Republican and be pro-oil and gas exploration in terms of your school setback bill. In theory, you could find a way to make that congruent with typical Republican rhetoric and ideology — growth is good, expand drilling is good. This one, though, runs into the Republicans’ rhetoric about property rights. In the public debate, how did the Republicans justify taking a position on behalf of the oil and gas industry against homeowners and Colorado residents and their property rights?
Foote: Well, actually, this one was more of a process type of argument. If you can't argue the policy, that's the typical way that you do it. I don't think that they figure they could argue the policy very well because of just what you said, which is a property right should mean something even if you're a mineral rights owner. It's more of a process argument this time, it was some of the usual rhetoric: this bill came up too quickly, there needs to be more consideration, maybe it should be a rule instead of statute, there needs to be more stakeholder work. Those types of things. None of it really was true but that was the kind of rhetoric they used in order to justify voting no.
Sirota: This forced pooling bill comes up after the first explosion. There has now been a subsequent explosion involving facilities with the same company, Anadarko. After the first explosion, you then introduced, late in the session, a bill that, the way I read it, would essentially force oil and gas companies operating in Colorado to release all of the maps of their oil and gas infrastructure so that at least homeowners would know whether they're living near that infrastructure. What happened to that bill?

Foote: Yeah, that was the pipeline mapping bill and that was introduced, actually, less than a week before the session ended. It was actually a very challenging calendar.
We, of course, were waiting for the cause and origin investigation to be complete. The fire district held a press conference on the Tuesday so that would have been eight days before session ended saying, "This is what happened, it was a flow line that hadn't been kept. It was cut and it caused the gas to seep into the basement and, subsequently, the house exploded." We saw the flow line as being an issue and, of course, we've always known that pipelines aren't mapped. Then we were getting very quick feedback from people saying, "Well, do I have these flow lines next to my house?" Home builders would want to know, local governments would like to know, lots of people would like to know about these things so we put together a bill really quickly, we had to. We just started it going through the process but, like I said, it was pretty time-challenged from the beginning. We introduced the bill Friday morning before session ended and it was heard in committee Friday afternoon and it had to go through several committees before it got on to the floor.
The premise of the bill is that the operator has this information about where underground pipelines are, although I don't think they have all of it. I mean, if there's assets they've acquired that are 30 years old, they may not have that. To the extent that they have it, they should be letting the state know and the state should be putting it up on a publicly available website so that people know what's in their neighborhood and they can work around it. The owners can work around and local governments can work around it, people in those neighborhoods can work around it. Because nobody knows this except for the operator, nobody knows where these lines are located and certainly not the public and that's a problem. The governor indicated that he thought it was an issue, lots of constituents, not just from my district but many other districts, said they think it's a problem. We decided, "Look, it's a real challenge to run it with only a couple of days left in session but we might as well give it a shot because it's a good idea and the public seems to want it."
Sirota: The way I read it, it was basically filibustered. We at IBT/Newsweek, we reported on  that bill. The Republicans, after our story came out, made the argument that the Democrats brought it up too late and it didn't follow the timing process and ‘we didn't really filibuster it, just didn't have enough time to be aired out.’ Most of the major media around the state reported it in real time as a filibuster, was that how you saw it?
Foote: Well, they had made it clear they were going to filibuster it. So that was their intent to do it. We had to get it out of the House on Monday night by midnight, because session ended on Wednesday, in order for it to have a chance of getting through the Senate. We knew it wasn't going to get past the Senate because the oil and gas industry came out against it. So we knew that, but we still wanted to get it out of the House at least and take a formal vote on it so people knew where their representative stood on this issue.
A sign marking the location of a natural gas pipeline is seen in Golden, Colorado, Feb. 2, 2015.  Photo: Reuters
Sirota: Let's step back for a sec. The information and the mapping bill is a good place to pivot and say this: if I had that information in front of me, exactly where all the oil and gas infrastructure was around my house and the like, what can I, as a homeowner, do with that information and, as importantly, should I be worried about my family's safety in my home? I mean, when you have constituents come up to you and talk to you and say, "Look, should I be concerned about my child and their school near a drilling area?" or, "Should I be concerned about my subdivision is potentially near underground oil and gas infrastructure? Should I be concerned for the life and death, safety of my family?" What do you tell those folks?
Foote: Well, most of these facilities are safe and nothing happens but as we've seen, sometimes things happen. It's a risk, it's a dangerous industrial operation so bad things can happen. I guess what people could get out of it if they were able to see it ... Which, by the way, in other states they can see these things, including Texas, so this is not a novel idea. If they were to see it, I think that if you've already moved into your house and you're taking a look at this map for the first time, there's not much you can do about where the lines are, there's not much work you can do about where your house is. You could contact the state agency, you could contact the operator to try to figure out what the inspection history is, how safe it is and ask appropriate questions if you were so inclined so you could do that.
I think, really, where it's valuable is for areas that are currently not developed for housing. Local governments and builders and others could really know where these lines are and so they cannot build new houses right next to these lines.
I think the Firestone house was about 150 feet away from the wellhead and, of course, just five or eight feet away from where the line was cut next to the house and it's way too close to be building housing next to the facility. We should note, the house was built well after the facility was built so it's not that it was, necessarily, the oil and gas company coming in right next to the house, it was vice versa, but the local government and the builder had no way of knowing that. They probably just went through the same process as they always do which is you call 811 and you try to figure out where all the lines are and all that stuff. It sure will be nice to know ahead of time so that you can figure out what your development is going to look like so it can be appropriately far away from where the existing facilities are.
Sirota: Now, if the fight that you went through in the legislature over these bills and in the middle of these explosions wasn't enough to show how much of a battle over oil and gas development there really is here in Colorado, there's also a separate court case that's happening. You are an assistant district attorney up in Boulder County, so you come out of the criminal justice and legal world while you also moonlight as a state representative up there. Tell us about this case that's been happening and the involvement of some teenagers in this case, making a pretty profound argument about how fossil fuel development should be treated in terms of its priority next to health and safety matters. What is the court case about and where are we?
Foote: Yeah, the Martinez case, that's a really interesting case. I have to say, even though that I've been running bills since I've been elected in 2013 on the oil and gas issue, the Martinez case seems to have made more progress than any of my bills ever have, I hate to admit that but it's true.
In fact, one of the first bills I ran when I was elected in 2013 was a bill that dealt with the Colorado oil and gas agency's mission statement. Their mission statement has been interpreted to say that they should balance public safety and the environment with the extraction of oil and gas. They're promoting oil and gas drilling as well as protecting the environment at the same time. This balance is what the commission always talks about when they're making a decision. Which is why, for example, they can justify putting a new oil and gas facility 500 feet away from a group of homes which is just not safe or in the middle of a neighborhood. It's just not safe, while they talk about, "Well, we need to balance this with the promotion of the industry and extracting minerals." The Martinez case said, "No, you shouldn't interpret the mission statement that way, you should interpret it where public safety should be first. Only after you establish public safety is appropriate for drilling here will you then foster the development of these oil and gas resources."
Sirota: The plaintiffs are young people. I mean, they're basically arguing for the future of their state. Where is that case? I should also ask, do you think it's symbolically important that it is a teenager who is at the center of this case as the plaintiff?
Foote: Well, it's great. I mean, they're taking more of a climate change view of it which is that the extraction of oil and gas causes long-term damage to our climate and so that also plays to the public safety, so that's their angle and I appreciate that angle. My angle, the way I'm looking at it, my legislation is always been more about public safety and the fact that you shouldn't be putting this in the middle of neighborhoods or next to schools, et cetera.
Colorado Governor John Hickenlooper lays out his plans for the next state legislative session at a news conference in his office at the Capitol in Denver, Dec. 19, 2013.  Photo: Reuters
There's also an interesting twist here as there seems to always be with oil and gas. First of all, it went to Denver district court and the Denver district judge ruled against Martinez and the other plaintiffs and they appealed it to the court of appeals. The court of appeals came back with a written opinion that said, "No, we think your interpretation is correct, public safety should be first." Then there's the debate as to whether or not they should try to appeal it to the Colorado Supreme Court and that debate just played out. The governor basically came out to say, "Well, I don't really think it should be appealed even though ..."
Sirota: The governor, in public, was saying "I'm good with the ruling as it is, that public safety should be first." Democratic Governor John Hickenlooper who, by the way, comes out of the oil and gas industry, was an oil and gas geologist, and has been a friend of the industry, he comes out and says, "I don't want the Colorado Oil and Gas Conservation Commission to appeal this ruling because I'm okay with public safety being prioritized." Then what happens?
Foote: Yeah. I should step back and say the commission, itself, is made up of seven voting members and they all voted unanimously to seek appeal and this is the Oil and Gas Conservation Commission. The governor stepped in and said, "No, I don't think you should appeal." One would think that if it's an executive agency, that the commission would listen to the governor.
Sirota: Right, these are his appointees.
Foote: They are his appointees although there might be a couple on there still from the prior governor, I'm not sure. Anyway, they are governor's appointees whoever the governor may be.
Sirota: This weird situation where you get the governor saying, "I don't want you to appeal," you got basically his commission with at least some of his appointees on it saying, "No, we're going to appeal," then what happens?
Foote: Then the Attorney General Cynthia Coffman comes in and says, "You know what? I think that we should appeal so I'm going to represent the Colorado Oil and Gas Conservation Commission and seek appeal to the Colorado Supreme Court." Even though the governor said no, the attorney general, who has made a point to say publicly that she will litigate on behalf of the oil and gas industry and has in the past, comes in and decides, "Well, we actually think that the mission statement should go back to where we think it should be in the first place which is this so-called balance and not the primacy of public safety."
Sirota: A lot of process here, but it is fascinating politics. A Democratic governor who's been a friend of the industry comes out and says, "Basically, I'm with the teenagers who filed this. I'm good with us, as a state, prioritizing health and safety." His commission says, "No, we want to appeal that. We want to not have health and safety be a priority over oil and gas development." Then the Republican attorney general who has benefited — her election campaigns — from groups that get a lot of money from oil and gas, she comes along and says, "I'm taking the appeal from the executive agency's commission and I'm going to appeal it to the Supreme Court in order to make sure that health and safety is not a bigger priority of regulators in Colorado than oil and gas development," which still boggles my mind. As somebody who works in the legal field, I mean, what do you think the Supreme Court is going to do? I should ask the even bigger question, what do you think it says about our politics here, that this even needs to be fought over?
Foote: Well, you put it exactly right in your summary. I mean, it's a very odd situation but it goes to show the power of the industry. The industry will join in with that appeal if they haven't already. They wanted it to be appealed, but they wanted somebody else to do the dirty work so they didn't get the bad press from doing the appeal. The attorney general comes in and says, "I want to appeal," the attorney general is the one that ends up getting the headlines, headlines she probably likes because it goes towards her base. The oil and gas industry quietly, without their normal press releases and statements, comes in and joins the request for an appeal. It's the attorney general with state employees paid for by tax payers coming in and doing the oil and gas industry's work. The oil and gas industry has plenty of lawyers that can do good work and they should be doing it themselves. That's getting off on a little bit of a tangent I think, that wasn't quite your question.
Sirota: Then the last question is about where Colorado is. I mean, you just said that Cynthia Coffman, the Republican attorney general who, by the way, may run for governor, I'm not sure it's going to happen but it's been rumored that she may run for governor, you said that her appealing this appeals to her base. I want to dig a little deeper into that as our final question, which is where do you think the everyday workaday Coloradan is on these issues? Because when you say her base, one level I'm thinking, well, maybe that is rank and file voters. At another level I'm thinking, maybe when we talk about her base, a political base, we're talking about the oil and gas companies, their executives and their big donors who write checks to groups that support gubernatorial candidates or attorney general candidates. The question is where do you think the average Coloradan is on these issues and do you think it's changing?
Foote: Well, that's hard to say. I mean, I know where people in my district stand, I know where people in Boulder County stand, I know where people in the Western Slope stand, I've spoken with a lot of their representatives about it. I have to think that most people in this state are for reasonable safety and public safety precautions, I just have to think that's the case.
I guess when I was referring to the attorney general's base, I probably was referring to the donor base which you referenced in the second part of your statement there. If you're running for governor, if you're running in for AG, it's certainly helpful to have the oil and gas industry supporting you.
As far as the average everyday Coloradan, certainly they're paying more attention to it now because of the explosion in Firestone, because of the explosion in Weld County, it's getting more and more covered so they understand what's going on. This was happening before but it just wasn't covered as much. I think if you were to talk to the person on the street, you would find them saying, "Well, we think that there should be some drilling but not at all cost. You shouldn't be putting it right next to somebody's door, you shouldn't be putting it right in the middle of a neighborhood, you shouldn't be putting it right next to a school, you should be doing it reasonably." Right now, that's now how it's done, it's not done very reasonably. There needs to be changes in the system. Now, there's some folks on the other side that think that drilling should not happen at all and then there's some folks on the other side that say drill, baby, drill, no matter what the cost.
I think that the vast majority of folks think that it just should be done in a reasonable manner and account for public safety. That's really what we've been trying to do over the last several years in the legislature but the industry has been shutting it down every single time.
Saturday in London, three terrorists killed seven people and injured forty-eight, running them over with a truck on the London Bridge and in a subsequent stabbing spree. Londoners fleeing the scene with Uber were hit with surge pricing, a surcharge on the ride share app implemented during peak usage. 
Reacting negatively to Uber’s surge pricing, people pointed out that London taxi drivers rallied to provide free trips to evacuate people to safety. "London black cabs getting people home safe tonight often not charging. Whereas UBER have triggered a surge," one user wrote on social media.
Hey @Uber -- you're really going to surge price x2.1 during a terrorist attack in #London??? Lower than low. #londonbridge #emergency pic.twitter.com/yXHFZsYZkT
— Amber Clemente (@yankeeamber) June 3, 2017
Think everyone needs to delete their #Uber accounts. Absolutely vile/disgusting to read they put their charges up after #LondonBrige
— Kristine Bean (@krisbeanie) June 4, 2017
Surge pricing, however, is automatic. According to Uber, the company turned off surge pricing around London Bridge as soon as they began hearing reports of the attack from the BBC. They eventually turned surge pricing off for all of central London around 11:40 p.m. Uber has also committed to refunding all ride fares from the terrorist-affected area in London.
READ: Uber’s Surge Pricing Tactic During London Bridge Terror Attack Ignites Social Media Outrage
Uber issued a statement about the incident Monday via their London general manager, Tom Elvidge:
"Our hearts go out to everybody affected by yet another horrific attack on our city. We'd like to thank all the drivers who helped tens of thousands of Londoners get home safely last night. As soon as we heard about the incident we immediately suspended dynamic pricing all around the area of the attacks - and shortly afterwards across the whole of central London - just as we did following the attacks in Manchester and Westminster. We are also ensuring all rides from around the affected area were free of charge. Our team is also working with the Metropolitan Police to help them get any footage from drivers who were in the area at the time." 
The move to refund fares worked to assuage the anger of some riders, who took back to social media with gratitude. 
@UberUK phoned me,apologised for surcharge. Full refund for our trip away from #LondonBridge last night #LondonAttacks #thanks #uberlondon
— Jenny (@JenACritch) June 4, 2017
"Just because people complain, doesn't mean it's a business problem," Eric Dezenhall, a crisis communications strategist and founder of Washington D.C.-based public relations firm Dezenhall Resources, told International Business Times in a phone interview Monday. "This is more operational than public relations. "
READ: London Bridge Terror Attack: Why Vehicles Are Becoming Common Weapons
Dezenhall said that he thinks the quickest way for Uber to address problems like this in the future is to neutralize surge pricing during an emergency as quickly as possible. The reaction time of Uber turning off surge pricing was a sticking point of many social media complaints. 
Uber also announced that it would make a donation to British Red Cross matching the fares taken to and from the One Love Manchester Concert. The concert was a benefit to help the 22 victims killed in May in an ISIS-linked suicide bombing outside of an Ariana Grande Concert in Manchester, England. 
Police stand guard after the terrorist attack on London Bridge June 3, 2017. Photo: Reuters / Hannah McKay
Elon Musk can ride a bit smoother now. 
The Chevrolet Bolt, the car that beat his new Model 3 to market by the better part of a year isn’t living up to its name — calling it a snail would be more fitting. 
In the past six months, a measly 6,529 Bolts have been purchased. That’s far fewer than sales of the all-electric Nissan Leaf and either of the existing Tesla models in the same period.
Meanwhile, the priciest models in the GM lineup are doing way better than the Bolt. In a six-month span, American drivers purchased about three times as many Cadillac Escalades and double the number of Corvettes — both models that your great-great grandfather would brag about driving. 
READ: Toyota Ends Tesla Partnership, Working On ‘Flying Car’ With Cartivator
Bloomberg reported in December Chevrolet’s electric vehicle shop positioned on the outskirts of Detroit was producing only about 100 Bolts daily. Thanks to General Motors, Chevrolet dealers will be waiting for the arrival of their first Bolts in July while Tesla plans to roll out more of its competitively priced Model 3. 
Ultimately, the Bolt is being stymied by General Motors Co. The company is producing the vehicle at a significantly slower rate than Tesla.
“Honestly, I don’t think I’ve seen a single commercial for the Bolt,” UBS analyst Colin Langan told Bloomberg. “They have a great starting point, but I don’t think they’re pushing volume today.”
Toward the end of April, the Bolt was available for consumers only in eight states. GM added another eight states to its distribution lineup in May and claimed the vehicles wouldn't be accessible coast-to-coast until late summer.  
 “The term I would use is slow and steady,” Marc Cannon, a spokesman for AutoNation told Bloomberg. “They’re making sure they meet the needs of early adopters and they’re taking their time doing it.”
READ: 6 Amazing Facts About Elon Musk's Tesla Motors, In Photos
Besides what the car can actually do, the Bolt is a huge a financial burden on GM. UBS AG experts predict the manufacturer is behind by about $7,500 on every model it unloads, courtesy of the machine’s $12,000 battery pack and $580 worth of parts and semiconductors — which is way more than that found in a traditional gas guzzler. 
What’s clear in the short-term, however — and what may stir up concerns at GM — is that the Bolt unveiling has been very dull, and not just when it comes to profit. The car hasn’t been able to match any of Tesla’s Silicon Valley appeal.
A silver lining for GM is eventually, the finances will ease as battery prices decline and the company realizes how to produce the car more cost effectively. But until then, the automaker whose sole purpose is to satisfy shareholders — rather than regulators or gas to the gallon nerds — would rather have you buy an Escalade anyway. It’s a standard case of the pioneer's Catch-22. GM has disturbed its generational success, but only somewhat. 
UPDATE: 5:30 a.m. EDT — Toyota confirmed it had liquidated its entire stake in Tesla, Bloomberg reported Saturday, citing a spokeswoman for the car maker who spoke to the news outlet by phone.
According to data compiled by Bloomberg, the Japanese company held 1.43 percent stake in Tesla in July 2016, which was down from the 3.15 percent Toyota had originally bought in 2010.
Original story:
Japanese car manufacturer Toyota has ended its partnership with Elon Musk’s electric car maker Tesla, and will work toward developing its own electric vehicles, according to a report Saturday by Asahi Shimbun. In December, Toyota sold all the shares it held in Tesla as it attempted to “review destinations for investment,” the Japanese newspaper reported.
The two automakers had begun their cooperation in 2010, when Toyota purchased 3.15 percent shares of the California company for $50 million, and in 2012, the collaboration also led to the production of an electric-powered sports utility vehicle that sold 2,500 units, according to an Agence France-Presse report. The news agency was also the one who cited Asahi Shimbun on Saturday, even though it could not immediately confirm the Japanese outlet’s story.
Read: Toyota Wants To Rival Tesla In Electric Vehicles
Toyota, which has till recently focused on developing the fuel-cell technology for green vehicles, has reportedly set up a team — drawing members from its various group companies — to work on electric cars instead. Its fuel-cell powered car Mirai (meaning “future” in Japanese), powered by a reaction between hydrogen and oxygen, emits only water from its exhaust pipe. However, hydrogen refuelling stations haven’t sprung up around the world, making it difficult to make the technology mainstream.
While it moves focus away from the fuel-cell technology, Toyota is venturing into another futuristic vehicle — a flying car. A Japanese startup, Cartivator Resource Management, which the car maker has invested 42.5 million yen ($385,000) in, tested an early version of its flying car, named Sky Drive, Saturday, the Associated Press (AP) reported.
The Cultivator team prepares to test an early version of its Sky Drive flying car in Toyota, Aichi Prefecture in Japan, June 3, 2017. Photo: Cultivator
Cartivator is based in the city of Toyota in Aichi Prefecture, Japan, and according to its website: “We aim to build a prototype, establish theory of flight control, as well as form alliances with major corporations to make mass production of the flying car a reality.”
The test flight Saturday was of a “full scale prototype,” according to the company, which also said in a statement that the “previously damaged” propellers, since repaired, showed “good performance.” However, AP, which was among the five media outlets present at the event, filed a report that sounded a little less upbeat.
“The gadgetry, about the size of a car and loaded with batteries and sensors, blew up a lot of sand and made a lot of noise. It managed to get up as high as eye level for several seconds before tilting and falling to the ground. Basketballs attached to its bottom served as cushions. After several attempts, the endeavor had to be canceled after one of the covers got detached from the frame and broke, damaging the propellers,” the AP report said.
The Cultivator team tests an early version of its Sky Drive flying car in Toyota, Aichi Prefecture in Japan, June 3, 2017. Photo: Cultivator
No humans or drones were harmed in Saturday’s test flight, since Sky Drive in its current avatar is considered too risky for anyone or anything to ride in it.
Read: Toyota-Backed Flying Car Could Light Olympic Torch In 2020 Tokyo Games
Cartivator wants to build a vehicle that offers a smooth transition between driving and flying, along the lines of the “Back to the Future” films, the project’s leader Tsubasa Nakamura told the AP."I always loved planes and cars. And my longtime dream was to have a personal vehicle that can fly and go many places," Nakamura said.
Using the investment from Toyota, the Cultivator team is working on improving the design and wants to have its first manned flight in 2019. It hopes to have a driver in Sky Drive light the torch in the 2020 Tokyo Olympic Games.
This article originally appeared on the Motley Fool.
OPEC has gotten its share of headlines over the years due to its influence on oil prices. From the oil embargo of the 1970s to the $100-plus per barrel crude prices of just a few years ago, the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries has held significant sway over the direction of oil prices. Here are seven things that everyone should know about this market-moving cartel.
1: OPEC was formed in 1960 for a single purpose.
At the Baghdad Conference in September 1960, Iran, Iraq, Kuwait, Saudi Arabia, and Venezuela formed The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, or OPEC. Its stated purpose was to:
Co-ordinate and unify petroleum policies among Member Countries, in order to secure fair and stable prices for petroleum producers; an efficient, economic and regular supply of petroleum to consuming nations; and a fair return on capital to those investing in the industry.
In this goal, the member nations aimed to counter the influence of the "Seven Sisters" -- seven large western oil companies -- on oil prices.
• Motley Fool Issues Rare Triple-Buy Alert
2: OPEC currently has 13 members
Several other nations subsequently joined the five founding members of OPEC: Qatar in 1961, Indonesia in 1962, Libya in 1962, the United Arab Emirates in 1967, Algeria in 1969, Nigeria in 1971, Ecuador in 1973, Gabon in 1975, and Angola in 2007. Both Ecuador and Gabon left OPEC for a while before rejoining in 2007 and 2016, respectively. Meanwhile, Indonesia left in 2009, then rejoined early last year only to leave again at the end of the year. As a result, there are currently 13 members of OPEC.
3: Saudi Arabia is by far OPEC's top oil producer.
In 2016, OPEC members produced nearly 32.5 million barrels of oil per day (bpd) -- about 36% of global crude production. Leading the way was Saudi Arabia, which produced an average of 10.4 million bpd, or 32% of the total. Rounding out the top five were Iraq (4.4 million bpd), Iran (3.5 million bpd), UAE (3 million bpd), and Kuwait (2.9 million bpd). One reason Saudi Arabia can pump so much more oil each day than its fellow members is its rock-bottom production costs.
4: While OPEC does not control oil prices, it does influence them
OPEC can't set oil prices because crude trades on the global market. However, because it does control more than a third of global crude output, it can nudge them in a desired direction. That's what it tried to do last November by delivering a six-month production cut that it coordinated with several nonmember nations. By reducing supply, that agreement pushed oil prices from the mid-$40s into the mid-$50s for a while. However, the rebound in oil prices incentivized other competitors, namely U.S. shale drillers, to increase their output. For example, leading shale driller  EOG Resources   (NYSE:EOG)  boosted its drilling budget 44%, a move it expects will fuel 18% growth in its oil production this year. EOG is one of several U.S. oil producers ramping up production in the wake of OPEC's intervention, which has put some downward pressure back on crude prices.
• This Stock Could Be Like Buying Amazon in 1997
5: OPEC requires a unanimous vote to increase or cut oil output
Not only does OPEC battle against non-members over the direction of oil prices, it often battles within itself. That's because it takes a unanimous vote of all members for OPEC to enact or extend an output cut, or to increase production caps. The members often have contradictory goals, which can make it hard to come to such an agreement. It takes a lot of lobbying and meetings to get everyone on the same page -- when that happens.
6: Venezuela is the leader for oil reserves
OPEC controls an estimated 1.2 trillion barrels of proven oil reserves -- defined as oil that it can produce with reasonable certainty and with current technology and prices. That's a whopping 81% of total estimated global oil reserves. What's surprising about OPEC's reserves is that the leading holder isn't Saudi Arabia, nor any of the other top-five producers. Instead, it's Venezuela, which holds an estimated 300.9 billion barrels of crude in the ground, or 24.8% of OPEC's total, edging out Saudi Arabia's 266.5 billion barrel reserve. For comparison sake, the U.S. currently has just 35.2 billion barrels of proven oil reserves according to government data, though when adding in total recoverable resources, the U.S. leads the globe.
• 7 of 8 People Are Clueless About This Trillion-Dollar Market
7: 34% of U.S. oil imports came from OPEC in 2016
In 2016, the United States imported 3.45 million bpd of oil from OPEC countries according to the U.S. Energy Information Administration, which was 34% of total U.S. oil imports. Saudi Arabia was the leading OPEC source, supplying 1.1 million bpd. That said, the U.S. imported more oil from Canada (3.8 million bpd) than from OPEC. Further, our oil imports from OPEC have fallen sharply since peaking at nearly 6.5 million barrels per day just before the financial crisis, driven down by rising U.S. shale output. The country's net oil imports were just a quarter of total consumption last year, one of the lowest levels since 1970.
Matt DiLallo has no position in any stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool owns shares of EOG Resources. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
Tesla fired a female engineer after she sued the company for “pervasive harassment,” unequal pay and sexism, the Guardian reported Thursday. The electric car manufacturer said it decided to fire engineer A.J. Vandermeyden after an internal investigation concluded her claims were unfounded.
Vandermeyden worked with Tesla for nearly four years before suing the company in 2016. In a February interview with the Guardian, Vandermeyden accused Tesla of tolerating inappropriate sexual behavior, promoting less qualified men over her, denying overtime pay, rest and meal breaks. She also alleged the Elon Musk-owned company failed to address her problems even after raising an objection.
Read: Uber President Jeff Jones Quits Amid Sexism, Sexual Harassment Scandals
However, a Tesla representative confirmed to the newspaper it dismissed the 33-year-old employee after a thorough investigation into her allegations by a “neutral, third-party expert” who found her claims were not justified.
“Despite repeatedly receiving special treatment at the expense of others, Vandermeyden nonetheless chose to pursue a miscarriage of justice by suing Tesla and falsely attacking our company in the press,” the representative told the Guardian in a statement Thursday. “After we carefully considered the facts on multiple occasions and were absolutely convinced that Vandermeyden’s claims were illegitimate, we had no choice but to end her employment at Tesla,” the statement added.
Vandermeyden’s lawyer, Therese Lawless, argued her client’s firing only proved their case.
“It’s clear retaliation. Somebody is trying to instill in employees that when they speak out about matters they are legally allowed to speak out about, they too will be fired," Lawless said.
Lawless said the lawsuit was an attempt to make a fair workplace at Tesla.
"This was absolutely shocking for Vandermeyden. She is devastated. She brought the lawsuit in an attempt to make the workplace at Tesla more equitable and fair and to have Tesla comply with the law," Lawless added.
In her lawsuit, Vandermeyden claimed she was subjected to “whistling and catcalls” and female employees faced several obstacles that posed a threat to their career growth.
“Until somebody stands up, nothing is going to change. I'm an advocate of Tesla. I really do believe they are doing great things. That said, I can't turn a blind eye if there's something fundamentally wrong going on,” Vandermeyden told the newspaper February.
Vadermeyden’s case is one of several such allegations faced by Silicon Valley companies, including Uber. Susan J. Fowler, a former engineer at the ride-hailing service, made the sexual harassment allegations in her blog post. She alleged Uber did not take action on complaints about her boss soliciting her for sex.
“On my first official day rotating on the team, my new manager sent me a string of messages over company chat. … It was clear that he was trying to get me to have sex with him, and it was so clearly out of line that I immediately took screenshots of these chat messages and reported him to HR,” Fowler wrote in the Feb. 19 post.
The management told Fowler that the company “wouldn’t feel comfortable giving him anything other than a warning and a stern talking-to” because it was the manager’s “first offense,” the post read. She was reportedly told that “no further action could or would be taken.” After transferring teams, she found that several other female employees had faced similar harassment during their tenure at Uber. Following repeated allegations, the company announced an investigation into the claims.
British space companies might have a hard time doing business once the United Kingdom officially leaves the European Union. Jan Wörner, director general of the European Space Agency, said if those companies want to participate in projects the EU is funding after Brexit, they might have to create subsidiaries in member countries.
It could take another  couple of years for the full terms of Brexit to be set and Britain’s withdrawal to begin officially, so it appears the companies have until 2019 to get their ducks in a row. After that, Wörner told the  Financial Times Wednesday, “We have a tremendous problem with Brexit because it means that U.K. companies ... are not eligible to have a contract directly.”
Read:  Stephen Hawking Says If We Don’t Leave Earth Now, We’ll All Die
The subsidiaries could be a short-term solution to the problem, keeping the companies in the fold until other arrangements are made.
Being shut out of EU-funded ESA programs could be detrimental to the countries that is so focused skyward. The U.K. Space Conference just concluded in Manchester, England, where Wörner himself was one of the speakers, notably telling the Times that space colonies, including on Mars and the moon, would be terrible places to live. The Financial Times said Britain wants to control 10 percent of the space market worldwide within the next 13 years.
That would be no easy task as competition in the space industry is getting tighter all the time. Just recently private company Rocket Lab, based in the U.S. but run by a New Zealander, geared up for its first rocket launch from the island country in the South Pacific Ocean and announced its plans to bring the  kiwi nation into the space race, with the eventual goal of sending a satellite into Earth orbit weekly.
What will the future of the British space program look like once the U.K. is finished pulling out of the European Union? The head of the European Space Agency says British space companies might not be able to work on certain projects anymore. Photo: OLI SCARFF/AFP/Getty Images
At the conference, Wörner called for British and EU officials to work together and come to an agreement on how to move forward with initiatives like the Earth-observing satellites in the  Copernicus program, which are run through ESA but funded by the EU and thus limited to partners from member states.
The ESA head told the Financial Times that to stay in the programs, the Brits might have to increase the amount of funding they contribute to the collaborations.
“I am ready to help the U.K. space industry to overcome these problems as far as my power reaches,” he said. “I am not commissioner of the EU, and am not responsible for what is done in Brussels, but we would love the U.K. to continue to be a member.”
Read:  New Zealand Wants To Launch Rockets Once A Week
Another EU-funded project at stake is  Galileo, a network of global navigation satellites ESA is launching.
Although the EU is involved in what ESA does, they operate independently — and each has members the other does not. Norway and Switzerland are  members of the space agency but not part of the EU while a few  EU nations are not members of ESA or simply have cooperative agreements with the space agency.
This story was originally published on Capital & Main.
The single-payer health care bill California’s Senate will vote on this week could result in significant savings for the state’s businesses and residents, according to an economic analysis commissioned by the bill’s supporters and released Wednesday.
“This measure is good for business; it’s also good for households,” the study’s lead author, Robert Pollin, director of the Political Economy Research Institute at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst, told a Sacramento press conference. “Businesses at all levels come out at least as well” as under the current system. (Disclosure: Pollin is a member of this website’s advisory board.)
That assertion counters an argument pushed by the bill’s insurance industry opponents and much of California’s business community that the bill’s high costs will be a “job killer” forcing businesses to pay more for health care.
Will the American Health Care Act -- AHCA -- create jobs or kill them?  Photo: Adam Berry/Getty Images
Those costs actually will be lowered, said Pollin, an economic adviser to Jerry Brown during the California Governor’s 1992 run for the Democratic nomination for president. Assuming the bill’s authors adopt the study’s recommendation for how to pay for the bill, Pollin and his co-authors found that small businesses now providing coverage for their employees will see an average 22 percent decrease in their costs, as a share of payroll, while mid-size businesses will see a drop of at least 6.8 percent and medium-to-large businesses–defined as those with up to 500 employees–will see a drop of 5.7 percent.
A Senate Appropriations Committee analysis released last week slapped a $400 billion price tag on the bill, authored by Sen. Ricardo Lara (D-Bell Gardens) and Sen. Toni Atkins (D-San Diego). Headlines trumpeted that figure–which is more than three times the state’s budget–without comparing it to the current system’s cost of $368 billion. The single-payer bill would cover all Californians, while today 2.7 million people go without insurance and about 12 million are under-insured, meaning they forego health care services because of the high deductibles or co-pays their insurance plans mandate. Lara and Atkins’ bill would eliminate deductibles and co-pays.
To insure everyone under the current system, Pollin’s team found, would cost slightly more than $400 billion.
According to their analysis, the single-payer bill, SB 562, extracts significant savings compared to the current system through two broad areas: structural changes and efficiencies of providing services. Since hospitals, clinics and physician groups now essentially replicate their efforts by dealing with numerous insurers, a single-payer plan would “reduce administrative costs across the board,” Pollin said. The second structural change would come from reduced prices for prescription drugs. “Through some combination of the [Veterans Affairs] model and the Canadian model” of negotiating with pharma companies on drug prices, Pollin said, “we can reduce pharmaceutical costs in the range of 30 percent.” The system would pay less for health care services by paying doctors at Medicare rates, the middle of the current three tiers of payments (private insurance pays the most and Medi-Cal pays the least).
A lthough doctors would prefer to receive the higher, commercial rate, “doctors in California and across the country are sick and tired of spending so much of their time dealing with the myriad insurance companies–all the approvals and administrative costs,” said study co-author Peter S. Arno, director of health policy research at the institute. The savings doctors would realize for their cutting down dramatically on such expenses were not included in the analysis, so if anything, Arno said, the study’s estimate of administrative savings is conservative.
“We estimate we can get 13 percent savings out of what we do with our present system,” Pollin said, by combining the savings from eliminating redundancies on the insurance side, negotiating with a pool of 40 million people for drug prices and paying Medicare rates. The study used data from the U.S. Institute of Medicine, the medical research wing of the National Institutes of Health, to find that eliminating inefficiencies would net another five percent of savings. Together these savings would reduce the cost of the health care system to around $330 billion, Pollin said.
The Research Institute’s analysis “relies on overly optimistic and highly uncertain savings assumptions,” the California Association of Health Plans, the health insurance industry’s lobbying group, said in a statement issued in response to the study.
The association also points out that Pollin’s analysis assumes California will continue to receive waivers from Washington allowing it to spend certain federal funds on state health plans. The Affordable Care Act stipulates that states can come up with their own alternative plans as long as they match the benefits provided by ACA, but the ACA’s future is in doubt given the Republicans’ determined efforts to repeal and replace it.
The major blank spot in Lara and Atkins’ bill so far has been how to pay for it. The legislature passed a previous attempt at single-payer in 2008, but then-Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger vetoed it over concerns about the costs. That bill imposed a flat payroll tax, shared by employees and employers, which fell equally on all Californians regardless of income, and on all businesses regardless of size.
Existing public sources pay about $225 billion to cover the state’s health care tab, so the system would need to raise another $105 billion to pay for all health care expenditures Pollin and colleagues estimate will be necessary under single-payer.
The UMass study proposes that SB 562 be paid for by two new taxes: A gross receipts tax on businesses of 2.3 percent of all revenue above $2 million, and a sales tax paid by consumers, also set at 2.3 percent. Housing, groceries and utilities, as well as services exempted in the current tax code, would be exempt from the sales tax. As an equalization provision to ensure that the poor aren’t hit the hardest, families eligible for Medi-Cal would get a two percent credit on their state income taxes, nearly refunding the sales tax paid over the course of the year. This revenue-neutral aspect of the proposal is accounted for in the estimates of what the two new taxes would raise, Arno said. Small businesses get a similar deal in that their receipts are usually in the $1 million-per-year range, so they would be exempt from the gross receipts tax.
These taxes would together raise $106.9 billion annually, the study estimates. “This proposal is a much more equitable distribution on employers” than a payroll tax, Arno said, “and gives the huge advantage of easily exempting small businesses.”
Today, California and Californians spend almost $370 billion on health care while leaving more than a third of residents uninsured or under-insured. The savings outlined in the report would bring spending on the system down to $330 billion. Public sources of funding now cover about $225 billion. The taxes on businesses and consumers would therefore cover the shortfall, according to Pollin’s analysis.
Pollin’s study also analyzed how these taxes would hit Californians at various income levels compared to their current expenditures on health care.
“Low-income families on Medi-Cal are going to see their health care costs go down by 5.5 percent,” Pollin said, while middle-income families buying their own insurance will see 9.1 percent savings, and those getting insurance through their employers will save 2.6 percent. Families in the top 20 percent of income–making $227,000 or more annually–will see their costs rise by 0.6 percent.
 