

Once again there are indications the UK government intends to use the law to lean on encryption. A report in The Sun this week quoted a Conservative minister saying that should the government be re-elected, which polls suggest it will, it will move quickly to compel social media firms to hand over decrypted data.
The paper quoted an unnamed government minister saying: “The social media companies have been laughing in our faces for too long”, and suggested that all tech companies with more than 10,000 users will face having to significantly adapt their technology to comply with the decryption law.
The relevant Statutory Instrument, to enable UK government agencies to obtain warranted access to decrypted data from communications service providers, currently sitting in draft form, will be voted through parliament within weeks of a new government taking office after the June 8 general election, according to the report.
As is typically the case when strong encryption comes back under political pressure in the modern Internet age, this leaked hint of an impending ‘crack down’ on tech firms came hard on the heels of another terrorist attack in the UK — after a suicide bomber blew himself up at a concert in Manchester on Monday evening. The underlying argument is that intelligence agencies need the power to be able to break encryption to combat terrorism.
Strong encryption, cryptic answers
The problem — as always in this recurring data access vs strong encryption story — is that companies that use end-to-end encryption to safeguard user data are not able to hand over information in a readable form as they do not hold the encryption keys to be able to decrypt it.
So the question remains how can the government compel companies to hand over information they don’t have access to?
Will it do so by outlawing the use of end-to-end encryption? Or by forcing companies to build in backdoors — thereby breaking strong encryption in secret? The latter would arguably be worse since government would be opening app users up to potential security vulnerabilities without letting them know their security is being compromised.
The UK government has been rubbing around this issue for years. At the back end of last year it passed the Investigatory Powers Act, which threw up questions about the looming legal implications for encrypted communications in the UK — owing to a provision that states communications service providers may be required to “remove electronic protection of data”.
It’s those powers that ministers are apparently intending to draw on to break social media firms’ use of strong encryption.
During the scrutiny process of the IP bill last year, ministers led a merry dance around the implications of the “electronic protection” removal clause for e2e encryption. The best interpretation of which was that the government was trying to frame a law that encouraged tech platforms to eschew the use of strong encryption in order not to risk falling outside the scope of an unclear law.
“He seems to be implying that providers can only provide encryption which can be broken and therefore can’t be end-to-end encryption,” was Lord Strasburger’s assessment of the government response to questions on the topic last July.
No clarity has emerged since then. The situation is still ongoing fuzziness about the legality of e2e encryption in the UK. To break or not to break, that is the question?
Arguably, as Strasburger suggested, this is strategic; intentional obfuscation on the part of the UK government — to spread FUD as a strategy to try to discourage use of a technology their intelligence agencies view as a barrier to their work.
But the problem for the government is that use of e2e encryption has been growing in recent years as awareness of both privacy risks and cyber security threats have stepped up, thanks to data breach scandal after data breach scandal, as well as revelations of the extent of government agencies’ surveillance programs following the 2013 Snowden disclosures.
Not holding encryption keys allows tech firms to step outside the controversy related to digital snooping and to bolster the security cred of their services. Yet, as a result, popular services that have championed strong encryption are increasingly finding themselves in the crosshairs of government agencies. Be it the Facebook Messenger app, or Facebook’s WhatsApp messaging platform, or Apple’s iOS and iMessage.
After another terror attack in London in March, UK Home Secretary Amber Rudd was quick to point the finger of blame at social media firms — saying they should not provide “a secret place for terrorists to communicate with each other”, and asserting: “We need to make sure that our intelligence services have the ability to get into situations like encrypted WhatsApp.”
Of course she did not explain how intelligence agencies intended to “get into” encrypted WhatsApp. And that earlier political pressure on encryption morphed into calls for social media firms to be more proactive about removing terrorist content from their public channels. At least publicly. Discussions held vis-a-vis encryption were not made public.
But again, if the latest reporting is to be believed, Rudd is intent on breaking strong encryption after all.
Exceptional access, unacceptable risk 
It’s worth revisiting Keys Under Doormats; aka the paper written by a group of storied security researchers back in 2015, re-examining the notion of so-called “exceptional access” for security agencies to encryption systems — at a time when debate had also been re-ignited by politicians calling for ‘no safe spaces for terrorists’.
The report examined whether it is “technically and operationally feasible to meet law enforcement’s call for exceptional access without causing large-scale security vulnerabilities” — posing the question of whether it’s possible to build in such exceptional access without creating unacceptable risk?
Their conclusion was clear: exceptional access without unacceptable risk is not possible, they wrote. Nor is it clear it would even be feasible given how the services in question criss-cross international borders.
Here’s one key paragraph from the paper:
Designing exceptional access into today’s information services and applications will give rise to a range of critical security risks. First, major efforts that the industry is making to improve security will be undermined and reversed. Providing access over any period of time to thousands of law enforcement agencies will necessarily increase the risk that intruders will hijack the exceptional access mechanisms. If law enforcement needs to look backwards at encrypted data for one year, then one year’s worth of data will be put at risk. If law enforcement wants to assure itself real time access to communications streams, then intruders will have an easier time getting access in real time, too. This is a trade-off space in which law enforcement cannot be guaranteed access without creating serious risk that criminal intruders will gain the same access. Second, the challenge of guaranteeing access to multiple law enforcement agencies in multiple countries is enormously complex. It is likely to be prohibitively expensive and also an intractable foreign affairs problem.
They further concluded:
From a public policy perspective, there is an argument for giving law enforcement the best possible tools to investigate crime, subject to due process and the rule of law. But a careful scientific analysis of the likely impact of such demands must distinguish what might be desirable from what is technically possible. In this regard, a proposal to regulate encryption and guarantee law enforcement access centrally feels rather like a proposal to require that all airplanes can be controlled from the ground. While this might be desirable in the case of a hijacking or a suicidal pilot, a clear-eyed assessment of how one could design such a capability reveals enormous technical and operational complexity, international scope, large costs, and massive risks — so much so that such proposals, though occasionally made, are not really taken seriously.
One thing the paper did not consider is that much politicking can be primarily intended as a theatre of influence for winning votes from spectators..text .crunchreport h3 {color:#fff}

		Latest Crunch Report 







Element Raises $102 Million | Crunch Report





Watch More Episodes



And the timing of the latest leaked call for ‘decryption on-demand’ coincides with an imminent UK general election, while also serving to shift potential blame for security failures associated with a terrorist attack that took place during the election campaign off of government agencies — and onto a softer target: overseas tech firms.
As we’ve seen amply in recent times, populist arguments can play very well with an electorate. And characterizing social media companies as the mocking, many-headed pantomime villain of the story transforms complex considerations into a basic emotional attack that might well be aimed at feeding votes back to a governing party intent on re-election.
“…to disclose, where practicable… in an intelligible form”
Returning to UK law, the (still draft) ‘Investigatory Powers (Technical Capability) Regulations 2017‘ is the legal route for placing obligations on comms service providers, under the IP Act, to maintain the necessary technical capabilities to afford government agencies the warranted access on demand that they keep demanding.
Yet exactly what those technical capabilities are remains unclear. (And “vague” technical requirements for exceptional access are also raised as a problem in Keys Under Doormats.)
Among the list of obligations Technical Capability Notices can place on comms service providers is the following non-specific clause:
To provide and maintain the capability to disclose, where practicable, the content of communications or secondary data in an intelligible form and to remove electronic protection applied by or on behalf of the telecommunications operator to the communications or data, or to permit the person to whom the warrant is addressed to remove such electronic protection.
The document also sets out that decrypted data must be handed over within a day after a CSP has been served a warrant by a government agency, and that CSPs must maintain the capability to intercept simultaneously comms and metadata for up to 1 in 10,000 of their customers.
The technical details of how any encryption perforations could be achieved are evidently intended to remain under wraps. Which means wider data security risks cannot be publicly assessed.
“I suspect that all the vagueness about concrete technical measures is deliberate, because it allows the government to deal with the technical details within a particular technical capability notice, which would be under a gag order, and thus avoid any public scrutiny by the infosec community,” argues Martin Kleppmann, a security researcher at the University of Cambridge who submitted evidence to the parliamentary committees scrutinizing the IP bill last year. And who has blogged about how the law risks increasing cyber crime. 
“It’s easy to criticize encryption technologies as providing ‘safe spaces’ for terrorists while forgetting that the exact same technologies are crucial for defence against criminals and hostile powers (not to mention protecting civil liberties),” he adds.
“Intelligence agencies don’t seem to actually want bulk access to encrypted data, but merely want the capability to intercept specific targets. However… if a system allows encryption to be selectively circumvented at the command of an intelligence agency, it’s not really end-to-end encryption in a meaningful sense!”
One possibility for enabling ‘exceptional access’ that has sometimes been suggested is a NOBUS: aka a ‘nobody but us’ backdoor — i.e. a backdoor which is mathematically/computationally impossible to find. However Kleppmann points out that even if the math itself is solid, it merely takes one person with knowledge of the NOBUS to leak it — and then, as he puts it, “all mathematical impossibility goes out of the window”.
“The only way of making a system secure against adversaries who want to harm us is by designing it such that there are no known flaws or backdoors whatsoever, and by fixing it if any flaws are subsequently discovered,” he argues.

Crypto expert Bruce Schneier is also dismissive of notion there might be a ‘third way’ for authorities to securely gain exceptional access. Asked by TechCrunch whether there could be any way for the UK government to implement a technical capability without the law effectively removing e2e encryption, his response is very clear. “No,” he says. “Just like the US, the way for the government to get the access it wants is to destroy everyone’s security.”
Meanwhile, on the vulnerability front, Kleppmann notes that even users of services which have open source components — such as WhatsApp, which uses the respected (and independently security reviewed) Signal Protocol for its encryption system — there’s still a requirement for users to trust the company’s servers are doing what they say they are when they hand over keys. Which could offer a potential route for a government-mandated backdoor to be slipped in.
“With WhatsApp/Signal/iMessage there is the remaining problem that you have to trust their server to give you the correct key for the person you want to communicate with,” he says. “Thus, even if the encryption is perfect, if a government agency can force the server to add the government’s special decryption key to your list of device keys, they can still subvert the security of the system. People are working on improving the transparency of key servers to reduce this problem, but we still have a long way to go.”
“I do believe open source is very helpful here,” he adds. “It’s not a silver bullet, but it makes it more difficult to sneak in a backdoor unnoticed.”
Previously, UK government ministers have both claimed they do not want to ban end-to-end encryption nor are demanding that backdoors be built in digital services. Although they have also described the rise of e2e encryption as “alarming“.
When interrogated specifically on the e2e question, the former UK Home Secretary (and now UK Prime Minister) said that companies should take “reasonable steps to ensure that they are able to comply with the warrant that has been served on them”.
Yet — and you might be spotting a pattern here — there has been no definition of what those “reasonable steps” might be.
Therefore it remains unclear where the UK’s legal line will be drawn on encryption.
Backdoors and outlaws 
If The Sun‘s story is correct, and UK government-ministers-in-waiting are indeed preparing to demand the likes of WhatsApp and Apple hand over decrypted messages then those “reasonable steps” would presumably require an entire reworking of their respective security systems.
And if the companies don’t bow to such demands what then? Will the UK government move to block access to WhatsApp’s e2e encrypted messaging service? Or ban the iPhone, given that Apple’s iMessages also uses e2e encryption? We just don’t know at this point.
A spokesperson for WhatsApp declined to comment when contacted for a response to this story.
Apple’s press team did not respond to a request for comment either. But the company has a history of strongly defending user privacy — taking to the courts in the US last year to fight the FBI’s demand to weaken iOS security to help facilitate access to a locked iPhone that had been used by a terrorist, for example.
WhatsApp has also had its service blocked multiple times in Brazil after it was taken to court for not handing over decrypted data to law enforcement authorities. Its response? To state in public that it cannot hand over information it does not hold.
However, the legal situation in the UK is different owing to the 2016 IP Act — with its troublesome clause about “removing electronic protection”.
And while there may be fresh moves afoot in the US to introduce a decrypt bill in the US — such legislation has not yet come to pass. Whereas in the UK the relevant law is now framed in such a way as to be possible to interpret that it requires CSPs to deliver up decrypted data on warranted demand.
So it’s not apparent that there would be any legal route for Apple to try to fight a decryption order for iMessage — should it be handed one by UK government agencies — given the company has a substantial presence in the UK. (As does Facebook, the parent of WhatsApp.)
“You can’t run a company as an outlaw,” says Danvers Baillieu, former lawyer turned COO for a startup after a stint working for VPN firm, HideMyAss. “If you change the law and it is [a company’s] legal duty to do something they don’t really have a leg to stand on. It’s all very well them saying they’re going to crusade for this and that but they ultimately have to comply with the law.”
“As a VPN provider we obviously told people to get lost the whole time from other countries because we didn’t have a physical presence there and we said we just had to abide by UK law. So we were constantly having services taken down in countries like India and Turkey and other places — because the authorities there would then lean on our local server providers,” he adds.
“But we could get away with it because we weren’t physically there. But the moment you have a physical presence — and the moment we got taken over by a multinational [HMA was acquired by AVG in 2015] we suddenly had to think about these things far more, because suddenly we were part of a multinational with offices in all these countries. And we had to be a lot more sensitive to these things.”
At this point we simply do not know what these multinational tech giants might feel they have to do to their security systems behind closed doors when/if they are being leant on by the full force of UK law — also behind closed doors, as CSPs are forbidden from disclosing the existences of Technical Capability Notices.
And if they’re being leant on to build and test backdoors to afford UK intelligence agencies access to their systems we may never know as there’s no legal route for them to tell their users what’s happening.
Perhaps they’d just remove marketing materials that mention ‘end to end’ encryption from UK versions of their services — and, much like a warrant canary, we’d have to make an inference that a certain service might no longer be trustworthy for UK users from that moment on.
“It would certainly make for some very bad PR, were a company to defy the gag order and make it publicly known,” says Kleppmann. “So maybe in such cases the government would choose not to serve a technical capability notice in the first place, and only rely on cooperation from companies that are happy to cooperate voluntarily. But now we’re really in guesswork territory.”
Meanwhile, plenty of tech services are of course built and maintained by overseas firms or developers with little or no presence in the UK.
Which raises the question of how the government would respond to that workaround for its plan to acquire decrypted data? And whether it would seek to block access to services that offer e2e encryption and cannot be legally compelled to build in backdoors.
A lawyer we spoke to for this story who did not wish to be identified suggested there may be some overseas providers that are willing to “do something” — “if they can find a way to do so, and want the comfort of a legal compulsion”.
For those overseas providers that are adamant they will not remove electronic protection when handed a UK warrant, it’s difficult to say what the government might do. The source suggested they could try blocking access to such services by leaning on other UK-based companies — such as ISPs and multinational app stores.
“We’ve seen in the Digital Economy Act, in the context of overseas porn sites which fail to comply with UK rule, the fall-back position is one of ISP blocking,” they said. “There is also the (seemingly non-binding) approach of having a chat with app store operators and other ‘ancillary service providers’, to encourage them to take action — presumably, removing an app from the store, or the removal of payment services provision from the app/service in question.”
A blocking strategy would be highly unlikely to render it impossible to access all services offering e2e encryption without any government backdoors — so, as ever, the political desire to have an absolute workaround for strong encryption would be doomed to fail. Meanwhile, the cost to mainstream app users of government requiring CSPs build access exploits into their systems ‘just in case’ would be greater risk their communications are hacked, leaked and snooped on.
“I think ultimately the reputable, multinational companies would comply but then you’re always going to have some kid spinning up a service from their bedroom in the middle of nowhere — or you have the latest version of Telegram, or something like that — and then it’s not going to comply. So obviously any sensible criminal or terrorist is not going to use the mainstream ones,” says Baillieu. “Criminals are generally quite dumb about this sort of stuff. But whether that applies to the more motivated terrorists, we just don’t know.”
“I think equally there’s a very good argument to say you should make it hard for these people to do this stuff,” he adds. “They shouldn’t just be able to use the most convenient apps that everyone has on their phone. We should make it difficult for them — and they might slip up… And I think you can make it quite hard for non-compliant apps to get distributed.
“I think a lot of people, probably this week, are feeling a little bit vulnerable. And we have to do something to address this.”
While Baillieu’s view is understandable, given the horror and fear generated by terrorism, it does risk losing sight of the wider, day to day risks posed to all users of digital services if governments systematically undermine data security. And we don’t have to look far back in time for an example of the risks.
The WannaCry ransomware, which caused havoc globally earlier this month, including locking out healthcare systems in the UK, utilized an exploit developed by (and leaked from) US intelligence agencies.
So, really, a “clear-eyed assessment” is what’s called for here — despite, and perhaps even because of, the horrors of terrorism.
“These proposals are unworkable in practice, raise enormous legal and ethical questions, and would undo progress on security at a time when Internet vulnerabilities are causing extreme economic harm,” is how Keys Under Doormats‘ assessed the “exceptional access” proposals of 2015.
Two years later their assessment would surely be that the risks of seeking to systematically backdoor encryption now are only greater — as more and more systems are being connected and more and more people are dependent on the data they contain.
Yet politicians in positions of power are apparently intent on waging yet another self-defeating crypto war. Where’s the sense in that?



Write about technology for any amount of time and you’ll get run through the hype wringer. It’s impossible to avoid. After all, it’s the excitement of new technologies that drew so many of us to this field in the first place. And when DJI debuts a product like the Spark, the word “game changer” gets tossed around a lot, just like it did with last year’s Mavic Pro.
But disruption takes time. Even at the breakneck speed of technology, change rarely happens overnight. In hindsight, it’s easy to pinpoint the mainstreaming of a technology on a single event, like the launch of the first iPhone. But that short-term memory wipes away a lot of the preamble and ramp up. In hindsight, it’s easy to forget, say, how much of a struggle the earliest Android phones had.
The word “mainstreaming” has been tossed around among those who follow the drone world. Here’s a CNN story from 2013 titled “Drones go mainstream.” And here’s Slate with “2015 Was the Year of the Drone.” And of course, one for the Mavic Pro from last year titled, “You Know Drones Have Gone Mainstream When Even Martha Stewart Loves Her Mavic.”
Sure, Martha is less known for her technical prowess than her homemaking, but being a millionaire TV star who gets stuff for free probably doesn’t quite qualify one as “mainstream.”.text .crunchreport h3 {color:#fff}

		Latest Crunch Report 







Element Raises $102 Million | Crunch Report





Watch More Episodes



I’ll admit that I find myself being a bit more cynical about all of this based on recent experiences. For whatever reason, I find myself talking a lot to 3D printing companies these days. Promises of future successes are inevitably tempered with something approaching apology for the hype. The industry has never stopped growing, year over year.
But in the eyes of much of the public, it’s been an abject failure. The promise of a 3D printer in every home has been all but abandoned. It’s become a yardstick for hype and failed promises. It’s invoked regularly when talking about technologies like drones and virtual reality. And if nothing else, it’s a good object lesson in how a category’s hype cycle can be a big setup for failure.
Like industrial 3D printing, industrial drones are sticking around. Along with other technologies like robotics and automation, they have already proven invaluable for what the manufacturing world calls “the three Ds” — jobs that are dirty, dull and dangerous. I recently spoke to GE VP Colin Parris about the use of drones to survey flare stacks used in drilling operations in the Bering Sea. Drones replace the need for workers with mountain climbing skills and really good life insurance plans.

But industrial uses don’t always lead to mainstream acceptance, as we learned from 3D printing. Most consumer drones are prohibitively expensive for mainstream users. And the ones that aren’t are often a pretty crappy experience, not too far removed from the bad shopping mall kiosk helicopters that were good for about two flights. And like low-end VR offerings, having a bad, cheap first experience could be enough to put many users off the tech.

Crunchbase






				DJI			


 
Founded
2006


Overview
DJI Innovations is a Chinese company that produces commercial and recreational unmanned aerial systems.


Its product line covers the high-end UAV flight control system and ground control system, the professional film and TV aerial photography platform, the top commercial gimbal system, the high-definition long-range digital video transmission system, the professional level wireless remote control …


Location

Shenzhen, 30



Categories

Consumer Electronics, 																													Aerospace, 																													Wireless, 																													Manufacturing 


Founders
Frank Wang


Full profile for DJI 









Of course, the drone/3D printing comparison isn’t an exact one-to-one. For one thing, the joys of drone flying will be immediate for many. And for another, while many drones take time to master, it’s not exactly on the same level as learning to create a complicated 3D model as is often mandatory in 3D printing.
And drones come with their own growing issues, including privacy and safety concerns that have led to increased scrutiny from the Federal Aviation Administration, among others. Trying to figure out precisely how legal it is to fly a drone around your neighborhood is pretty tricky — and from the looks of it, things don’t seem to be getting much easier, even after you go through what may or may not be an optional registration processing, pending appeal.
Still, with every subsequent generation, the category is more accessible. And photography and video will almost certainly be a large part of their path toward a more mainstream acceptance — that and the sheer fun of flying them around. But even with the far more affordable $499 price point on the Spark, the price is still too high for true mainstream adoption.
That doesn’t mean the space won’t get there. It’s just another reminder that mainstreaming doesn’t happen overnight.


British Airways has a problem. Its new IT system has completely crashed five times inside a year, and today it added a sixth global crash to the roster. All flights from Heathrow and Gatwick have been cancelled until at least 6pm in London tonight, affecting all BA flights globally. The airline is asking passengers not to come to the airports. The system failure also took out the BA website for two hours.
Travelers at airports serviced by BA are predictably flooding the company’s Twitter account with complaints.
The airline has said it has found no evidence of a cyberattack, despite some reports of BA staff telling passengers this. It’s highly unlikely to be a cyberattack at this point, but let’s keep our minds open.
At 1pm a British Airways spokesman said: “We have experienced a major IT system failure that is causing very severe disruption to our flight operations worldwide. The terminals at Heathrow and Gatwick have become extremely congested and we have cancelled all flights from Heathrow and Gatwick before 6pm UK time today, so please do not come to the airports.”
The failure has affected BA flights around the world, with planes being grounded and passengers stuck either in terminal buildings or actually on planes, with passengers unable to disembark due to gate shortages.
The failure comes as thousands of Britons head abroad for the long weekend with half-term school holidays next week.


@British_Airways this queue goes up one side, down the other as far as you can see and the same distance again left! pic.twitter.com/UdxPDxpdvu
— Lee Warner (@LeeJWarner) May 27, 2017
Today’s Stories 

On-demand food startup Sprig is shutting down today
Nielsen: over 92% of viewing among U.S. adults still happens on the TV screen
Sergey Brin’s giant airship will be world’s largest, serve humanitarian role
Even the world’s largest bitcoin exchange couldn’t handle this week’s cryptocurrency boom

Credits
Written by: Tito Hamze, John MannesHosted by: Tito HamzeEdited by: Chris GatesFilmed & Teleprompter: Joe Zolnoski
Notes:

I don’t know what to wear on Crunch Report (It’s a hard decision and I suck at dressing myself). If you are a startup and want to me to wear something mail me an XL T-shirt and I’ll wear it in an episode. I’m not going to mention the company on the shirt in the episode but it will be there. No offensive stuff, it’s totally at my discretion if I wear it. Mail it to me. Thanks <3 Ok, bye.

TechCrunch C/O Tito Hamze
410 Townsend street
Suite 100
San Francisco Ca. 94107
LinkedIn co-founder Reid Hoffman announced today that he’s making a big bet on Change.org, the site for social justice petitions. Hoffman is leading a $30 million round, with other investors including big names like Bill Gates and Y Combinator president Sam Altman.
“Change.org, the global hub for collective action, is a crucial democratizing force in this era of growing civic participation,” wrote Reid Hoffman on LinkedIn. “It helps enable a world where you don’t need to hire a lobbyist to have real impact on the issues and policies that matter to you.”
The organization was founded in 2007 by CEO Ben Rattray. Since then, almost 200 million people around the world have used the site to raise awareness for a range of causes, including human rights, the environment, education and health issues.
Rattray wrote a post about the global mission. “We are in the early stages of the development of a new, more participatory form of democracy, and in order to realize the potential that technology has to transform civic engagement, we need to build tools that give us wider reach and enable deeper involvement,” he said.
The proverbial tongue-in-cheek in Silicon Valley is that people want to build things that “change the world.” This one actually does.
But they’re not a nonprofit, they’re a business. They make money by charging companies and nonprofits to sponsor petitions, which they say brought in $20 million in revenue per year. Unfortunately, that wasn’t enough to keep them from laying off 30 percent of their staff in September. They have since introduced crowdfunding, which has generated “millions of dollars of revenue.”
This isn’t the first time that Hoffman bet on the Change.org team. In 2014, he was part of a large group of high-profile investors, including Richard Branson, Ashton Kutcher and Twitter co-founder Ev Williams.
They’ve raised more than $42 million dating back to 2012.
Google has launched a new venture capital program focused on artificial intelligence, Axios is reporting.
Google declined to comment on the report, which states that the initiative will be led by longtime Google VP of engineering Anna Patterson and involve a rotating cast of engineers instead of the venture investors who work for Alphabet Inc.’s corporate venture unit, GV.
It isn’t completely surprising that Google might create an investing practice around AI, particularly given Google CEO Sundar Pichai’s recent pronouncement that Google is becoming “AI first” rather than “mobile first.”
Indeed, AI was the running thread throughout the recent Google I/O developer conference, where the company introduced new tensor processing unit (TPU) chips that promise to more quickly train and run AI models for researchers and businesses; it also announced (among many other things) that its Google Assistant, the company’s virtual personal assistant that’s available on devices like the Google Home and Pixel phone, will soon grow more conversational.
Also potentially playing into this new development: Google’s recent acquisition of Kaggle, a platform that hosts data science and machine learning competitions.
According to Axios, Patterson and company will reportedly be co-investing with GV when it makes sense to do so. Check sizes, it says, will range from $1 million and $10 million to start, though it isn’t yet clear how much Google plans to commit to the program, yearly or otherwise.

: AFP/Getty Images
This week, DJI announced a brand new drone, Mark Zuckerberg delivered the Harvard commencement speech and Airbnb’s internal data science program was announced. These are the top stories of the week. This post is also a newsletter, so you can sign up to have it delivered to your inbox on Saturday mornings. 
1. Mark Zuckerberg tells Harvard we need a new equal opportunity social contract  
Mark Zuckerberg’s Harvard commencement speech centered around how we can improve life through big projects, equal opportunity and building both local and global community. He outlined a plan “to create a world where every single person has a sense of purpose.” Rather than focusing on the opportunities for the Harvard students graduating in front of him, he urged the students to ignite opportunities for those less fortunate.
2. Airbnb is running its own internal data science university 
If there’s one role that’s in demand in Silicon Valley, it’s data scientists. Every company has its own strategy for hiring and training, but Airbnb has taken things a step further. The company is running its own university-style program for data science, complete with a custom course-numbering system.

3. DJI announces its tiny new $499 Spark drone 
DJI held a live-streamed keynote, during which it announced its newest drone, the Spark. With a palm-sized body and sub-$500 price point, the company is taking some pretty significant steps beyond just photographers and videographers. It’s still a pretty expensive toy at the end of the day, but with the number of features the company is tossing in here, the notion of a solid drone for the rest of us just became a little more real.
4. Uber says it accidentally underpaid drivers in New York City
Uber was supposed to take a 25 percent cut from driver fares, after taxes and fees were taken into account, according to the terms of Uber’s 2014 driver agreement. But in New York, Uber accidentally calculated a higher commission that took into account the full fare, before taking into account taxes and other fees. Uber says it is fully prepared to refund that money to drivers in New York, plus interest. That will result in tens of millions of dollars in payouts for the company.
5. Jim Hackett is the new CEO of Ford
After a day of speculation, Ford named Jim Hackett, who had been running Ford’s Smart Mobility business, as the new CEO. The move signals the company’s ambitions in the connected car space. Hackett will replace Mark Fields, who is retiring.
6. Quora launches its first self-serve ad platform
Newly minted unicorn Quora launched its first self-serve ad platform. Advertisers both large and small will be able to create text-based ads and mobile app install ads — both of which look particularly native and non-intrusive.
7. Bitcoin surged past $2,000 for the first time
Bitcoin has been on a tear this year. That’s according to a range of bitcoin exchanges, including Coinbase and Kraken. The valuation puts the total market cap of bitcoin — the total number of coins in circulation — at $32.92 billion. Here’s how to stage an initial coin offering. 
8. Peloton is the newest unicorn
Indoor fitness equipment company Peloton closed a $325 million Series E financing round, valuing the company at $1.25 billion. Spinning has turned out to be a big business, and this brand has been gaining traction in the at-home fitness space. Peloton’s $2,000 bikes have developed a cult following, mainly because of its live-streamed classes.
Weekend reads
The FCC published the notice of proposed rule-making that would roll back the 2015 Open Internet Order establishing net neutrality. Its first and primary justification for doing this is a way of defining broadband access that’s so backwards, it’s ridiculous. It would be funny, if the future of the internet didn’t depend on this incredibly disingenuous maneuvering.
“I attended Google I/O this week, and saw a lot of cool things,” writes columnist Jon Evans. “But what really hit home for me, at the keynote and the demos and the developer sessions, was just how dominant Google has become, in so many different domains … and, especially, how its only real competition comes from the four other tech behemoths who dominate our industry’s landscape.” More here.
As bitcoin continues to mature, there’s a new term we need to learn. WTF is an ICO? 
There are few verticals filled with more utopian dreams than the studios and startups building virtual and augmented reality experiences. While some are looking to craft 3D experiences that integrate into the real world, others are aiming to create massive worlds to which we can escape. The one thing many of them have in common, however, is that they are built on a game engine from a company called Unity. Here’s why Unity, which closed on $400 million in fresh funding this week, is poised to become the next tech giant. 
Robots are great at doing things they’ve been shown how to do, but when presented with a novel problem, such as an unfamiliar shape that needs to be gripped, they tend to choke. AI is helping there in the form of systems like Dex-Net, which uses deep learning to let a robotic arm improvise an effective grip for objects it’s never seen before.
The basic idea behind the system is rather like how we figure out how to pick things up. You see an object, understand its shape and compare it to other objects you’ve picked up in the past, then use that information to choose the best way to grab it.
Dex-Net doesn’t have the advantage of being a living person with eyes and a memory, so its creators gave it more than six million artificial 3D representations of objects and had it work out the best way, theoretically, to pick up each. In real life, the system looks at an object, compares its point cloud to those in its memory and picks what it thinks is the closest fit.
The researchers presented Dex-Net with dozens of objects it hadn’t seen before, and its chosen grip only failed one time. That suggests the system is fairly robust despite being trained on synthetic data — plus, it comes up with its candidate grip in an average of less than a second.

Dex-Net is the product of Berkeley roboticists, who are set to present the latest version of the system at a conference in July. They also plan to release the data set of objects and point clouds they’ve amassed.
At the Formula E Paris ePrix over the weekend, the driverless Roborace navigated a lap of the 1.9 km course all by itself — all 14 turns.
The autonomous car uses five lidar sensors, two radar sensors, 18 ultrasonic sensors, two optical speed sensors, six AI cameras and satellite positioning information to know where it is and navigate its route. All this data is processed by Nvidia’s Drive PX2, which can perform 24 trillion operations per second, according to a Roborace press release.
Which is fast. The Roborace car itself, however, is not. Yet.
The hardware is on board for some serious racing: four 300 kW motors and a 540 kW battery that can propel the car over 200 mph. But while it’s learning its route — and while the engineers are learning how the car learns — it fairly creeps along the track with a human-driven chaperone car following behind.
Check out the official video to see its first run in Paris. It’ll take another lap in Berlin during the next Formula E race and at races for the rest of the season.


: Roborace
KidPass, a monthly membership program that gives parents access to a variety of kid-friendly activities across their city, has raised $5.1 million in Series A funding, the startup reported this week. Currently live in New York, the new funds will allow the service to expand to new markets including L.A., San Francisco, Seattle, Boston, Philadelphia, Washington D.C., and Chicago.
The round was led by Javelin Venture Partners, with participation from new and existing investors, including CoVenture, Y Combinator, TIA Ventures, Bionic Fund, Cocoon Ignite Ventures, and FJ Labs among others.
Jed Katz, Managing Director at Javelin, and Rachel Jarrett, President of Zola, will join KidPass’s Board of Directors as a result of this funding.
The idea for KidPass is similar to ClassPass – a subscription service for adults looking to try different fitness classes around town, like yoga, cycling, Pilates, dance, and others. Though KidPass has a similar name, the two companies are not related.
However, KidPass works a lot like ClassPass does. Customers pay one monthly fee then can try classes all over town.
KidPass co-founder Solomon Liou explains he and his fellow founders, Aaron Kaufman, Chhay Chhun, and Olivia Ballvé, decided to start the company after becoming parents themselves and became frustrated with how difficult and time-consuming it was to find great activities for their kids.
“While there were mobile apps to instantly book restaurants, doctors, and taxis on-demand, there wasn’t anything like that for kids’ activities,” says Liou. “In fact, the main way that parents discover kids classes today is still through word of mouth from talking to other parents, or using Google Search and going through page after page of results. It’s time consuming and difficult to navigate, with many businesses not even having a presence online,” he adds.
Plus, even when you found a class, many providers only took in-person registrations, or required you to book upfront payments for semester-long programs – all before you know if your child will even like the course, Liou notes.
To use KidPass today, parents choose from one of three membership options which start at $49 per month. These subscriptions offer credits that can be used to pay for the various activities, like dance classes, arts and crafts activities, sports, museum classes and camps, science and technology classes, swimming classes, kids cooking classes, fitness classes, academic classes and many more.

At present, there are over 900 activity providers using the platform, like Gymboree, Kidville, Music Together, Super Soccer Stars, Physique Swimming, The Craft Studio, Chocolate Works, the Museum of Modern Art, YMCA, JCC, and others.
Since its launch in January 2016, 20,000 families have signed up for the service and have booked over 100,000 activities. There are today over 3,000 subscribers in NYC, and the KidPass is growing at 20 to 30 percent nearly every month, Liou says.
The service works by offering parents a certain number of credits that can be used per month to book activities. The basic tier includes 10 credits and supports up to 2 children. The middle tier supports up to 5 kids and includes 25 credits. And the highest tier supports unlimited kids and 50 credits.
Some activities only take one or two credits, but other premium activities and camps could take 10 or more. Any unused credits will roll over for three months, in case parents get busy and can’t use the credits right away.
This credits-based system could help KidPass avoid the problems that plagued ClassPass – that company eventually had to raise prices and ditch its unlimited tier in order to stay afloat.
“[The use of credits] allows us to charge varying prices to the parents depending on the activity’s cost to make sure that parents get a great deal, while ensuring that the unit economics work well for us as a marketplace supporting both businesses and families,” explains Liou. “We have had positive gross margins as a business because of our business model, and we intentionally avoided any unlimited plans that could be highly unprofitable,” he says.
There are a few reasons why parents would want to pay for a service like this instead of booking directly with a class provider.
Most importantly, however, is that KidPass provides a means of discovery for children’s activities. In the large markets KidPass serves, there are so many activities available that parents may not know of all their available options. They also might not want to commit to booking multiple sessions with an activity provider before being able to try out the class or camp first.
KidPass isn’t the only startup tackling this space. It competes with others like Sawyer and Pearachute, for example.
In addition to expanding to new markets, KidPass is developing software for activity providers that helps with class management, online registrations scheduling and payments. This software is in private beta with some KidPass partners.

: Catherine Nicole Will / EyeEm/Getty Images
Sprig, the startup that makes and delivers its own food, is shutting down today, The Information reports. TechCrunch has since obtained a copy of the email Sprig is sending to customers today.
“It is with a heavy heart that my co-founders and I share that Sprig, Inc. will be shutting down the app today,” Sprig CEO Gagan Biyani wrote in an email customers will receive shortly. “We apologize to those of you who relied on Sprig for daily meals, and to our extended Sprig team for how this will impact them.”
So if you are trying to order food from Sprig today, you’re out of luck because today is Sprig’s last day of operations. This doesn’t strike me as a huge surprise because Sprig has been experimenting with some interesting strategies in the last few months. For example, it opened its kitchen on Van Ness Avenue in San Francisco to start serving food to walk-in customers, and also started delivering its food via Caviar. Sprig had also been struggling in Chicago, where it laid off seven people and paused its operations last July.
Sprig’s shutdown will affect around 200 people, including part-time employees, TechCrunch has learned. There will be a severance package, and, at this point, the goal is to help connect now-former Sprig employees with other companies that are hiring.
Sprig, which had raised $56.7 million to cook and deliver its own meals, is not alone in the on-demand food delivery graveyard. It joins the likes of Maple, which shut down earlier this month, SpoonRocket and India’s Ola. Meanwhile, Munchery has been on the struggle bus for a while, so maybe it’s only a matter of time before Munchery joins the crew.
The on-demand food business is tough, especially if you’re trying to handle all elements of the experience, like sourcing the food, cooking the food and delivering it. It’s a lot.
“No question, I’m sad that the Sprig model did not work out — but the food delivery space on the whole is growing,” Biyani wrote. “The demand for Sprig’s convenient, high-quality food was always incredibly high, but the complexity of owning meal production through delivery at scale was a challenge. After spending four years as a food-tech industry insider, I’m amazed at what the space has become. Food is one of the foundations of society and I believe strongly that it must become more sustainable and ethical.”
Here’s the email Sprig is sending to its customers:
Dear friends and customers,
It is with a heavy heart that my co-founders and I share that Sprig, Inc. will be shutting down the app today. We apologize to those of you who relied on Sprig for daily meals, and to our extended Sprig team for how this will impact them.
Food delivery has a bright future, and I’m proud of the work we have done at Sprig that has had a positive impact on the space.
To our employees: thank you. You provided the best customer service in the industry and created innovations that were admired by your peers. You created a daily rotating menu with hundreds of different dishes served, you prepared the most delicious delivery food I’ve ever tasted, you built a 100% self-engineered system that delivered industry-leading transparency and accountability in our ingredient sources and nutritional data, and you created a logistics engine that let us bring food to people hot and ready to eat often in less than 15 minutes. All of our employees, including our servers, kitchen, hub and HQ staff, will receive two months pay as part of the close down. More importantly, we will be hosting career days to help you on your next path. You are armed with experiences that will help accelerate your career and we will be there to help you succeed. (Note: If you are a company that is hiring and interested in talking to our team, please e-mail us at jobs@sprig.com.)
To our customers: you have been our inspiration on this journey. Thank you for the tremendous word-of-mouth growth and feedback you’ve provided us: your messages, phone calls, photos, and reviews made this all worthwhile. We’re proud to have delivered millions of meals to you, and hope you keep demanding the best from the companies that feed you. Four years ago, food delivery was a pain — expensive, hard to find, and poor quality. Today, there are thousands of restaurants delivering amazing food to you; we’re hopeful for the future.
To the press and public: No question, I’m sad that the Sprig model did not work out — but the food delivery space on the whole is growing. The demand for Sprig’s convenient, high-quality food was always incredibly high, but the complexity of owning meal production through delivery at scale was a challenge. After spending four years as a food-tech industry insider, I’m amazed at what the space has become. Food is one of the foundations of society and I believe strongly that it must become more sustainable and ethical. I’m hopeful that the food delivery companies that are succeeding will make this a priority. Please continue to help us inspire change: encourage sustainable food systems, better treatment of workers and more awareness of nutrition. These are serious issues and they cannot have enough attention.
As for me, my primary goal for the coming weeks is to ensure our team members find their next steps. After that, some time for personal reflection, then off to the next venture.
Thank you for everything,
Gagan
I’m in touch with Sprig but the company said to refer to the email for official comments.
The UK Prime Minister is using the annual G7 summit of seven of the world’s major industrialized democracies to push for more to be done about online extremism, including co-ordinating on ways to force social media platforms to be more pro-active about removing and reporting extremist content to authorities.
Theresa May is chairing a counter-terrorism session at the G7 summit today in Sicily, meeting with the leaders of the US, Canada, Germany, France, Italy, Japan and representatives of the European Union.
It’s a drum her own Home Secretary has been banging at home in recent months. And just the latest instance of the political thumbscrews being applied to social media giants.
In Germany in April, for example, the government backed proposals to levy fines of up to €50 million on social media firms that fail to promptly remove illegal hate speech from their platforms.
Before leaving for the summit yesterday the BBC reported May planned to lead a discussion with her fellow world leaders on how to “work together to prevent the plotting of terrorist attacks online and to stop the spread of hateful extremist ideology on social media”.
According to The Guardian, she is expected to tell her G7 counterparts that the fight against ISIS is shifting from the “battlefield to the Internet”, and to urge them to co-operate to enforce stricter rules on social media companies.
Specifically, the newspaper said May will press for social media firms to:

develop tools that could automatically identify and remove harmful material based on what it contains and who posted it
tell the authorities when harmful material is identified so that action can be taken
revise conditions and industry guidelines to make them absolutely clear about what constitutes harmful material

The move follows another terror attack on UK soil after a suicide bomber blew himself up at a pop concert in Manchester on Monday evening, killing and wounding multiple people.
Although there have been no suggestions so far that social media platforms could have thwarted the attack by providing pre-emptive intelligence.
Indeed, the UK government’s own counterterrorism policies are facing the most uncomfortable questions in the wake of the attack, given the bomber had been repeatedly reported to police in the years prior. Yet was not, evidently, stopped from obtaining the know-how or materials to construct a bomb. Nor from successful executing an attack.
Other recent instances of terrorism on UK soil have included an attack in Westminster in March, when a lone attacker used a car and knives to attack pedestrians and police. The Westminster attacker apparently sent a WhatsApp message minutes before commencing the attack saying he was waging jihad in revenge for Western foreign policy.
While a homemade bomb planted on a London Underground Tube train in October last year, which failed to go off, had apparently been put together by the teenage perpetrator following instructions found online.
The problem for UK security services is they are under-resourced to meet the scale of the threat. As Muddassar Ahmed writes today in The Independent, there are around 3,000 people on UK terror watch lists — yet only 4,000 staff in MI5, the domestic intelligence agency. The agency simply does not have the manpower to closely monitor so many potential terrorists.
May has also faced specific criticism in the wake of the Manchester attack for cuts the government made to UK police numbers. She had apparently been warned two years ago that cuts to community policing in Manchester could threaten counter terrorism efforts in the city. The optics at this point look terrible.
Her G7 comments therefore risk looking like an attempt to shift both blame and responsibility — with May leaning out to apply pressure on social media firms in a bid to effectively outsource the responsibility for terrorism monitoring to tech platforms. At a time when her own government’s policy towards domestic policing and counterterrorism resourcing looks to be lacking.
Perhaps the most significant push she’s making at the G7 is for the countries to co-ordinate on revising industry guidelines on harmful material and on the conditions they place on tech firms. Although, according to Guardian sources, she’s not advocating for financing penalties at this stage (such as those already on the table in Germany).
The paper quotes a senior government source saying May wants the the G7 nations to “move towards a common approach focused on the need to defeat [Isis]. In particular she wants to use G7 to call for the members to adopt a collective approach when working with tech companies on this agenda, and she will say that the industry has a social responsibility to do more to remove harmful content from its networks”.
However, whether she will be able to convince President Trump to join a collective attempt to apply extra pressure on US tech giants is not clear.
Much of what she’s generally calling for social media firms to do is already arguably taking place. For example, Facebook has previously said it is working on tools and technologies to try to automate flagging up extremist content, including CEO Mark Zuckerberg publicly discussing the potential of AI to help with content review.
Facebook also emphasizes that it does already reach out to authorities if it finds evidence of an imminent threat of harm or terrorism. And does already use AI and image and video matching technology when it identifies terrorist content to try to unearth related content and accounts, for example.
That said, ongoing criticism of the effectiveness of Facebook’s content moderation processes underline the scale of the company’s own challenge on this front. And the 3,000 additional moderation staff announced by Zuckerberg in the wake of another content moderation scandal represents a tiny drop in the ocean for a platform with nearly two billion users.
With the additional moderator headcount Facebook will still only have 7,500 people employed to review all flagged content — so more than MI5’s headcount but relatively far fewer, given the staggering scale of its content moderation challenge, which runs the gamut from reviewing and making judgements on extremism/terrorist related content; to child abuse and other criminal content; to hate speech and racism; to violence and cruelty of all stripes. All the while aiming to balance ‘safety with openness’, as it puts it, i.e. preferring the sharing of controversial/disturbing content — provided it’s not illegal/sadistic. (A very tricky balancing act to pull off, evidently.)
In a statement today responding to May’s comments on extremist content, Facebook’s Monika Bickert, head of global policy management, said: “We want to provide a service where people feel safe. That means we do not allow groups or people that engage in terrorist activity, or posts that express support for terrorism. Using a combination of technology and human review, we work aggressively to remove terrorist content from our platform as soon as we become aware of it — and if there is an emergency involving imminent harm to someone’s safety, we notify law enforcement. Online extremism can only be tackled with strong partnerships. We have long collaborated with policymakers, civil society, and others in the tech industry, and we are committed to continuing this important work together.”
Twitter did not provide a statement when contacted for comment but a spokesman pointed to what he said are proactive technological steps the platform takes with regards countering violent extremism, such as using technological tools to surface accounts that are promoting terrorism. He noted, for example, that between July 1, 2016 through December 31, 2016, a total of 376,890 Twitter accounts were suspended for this reason — with 74 per cent of those having been surfaced by the platform’s tech tools rather than via user reports.
Update: In a joint statement after the meeting, The Guardian reports the G7 leaders backed May’s calls for social media firms to do more to tackle online extremism. “We agreed a range of steps the G7 could take to strengthen its work with tech companies on this vital agenda. We want companies to develop tools to identify and remove harmful materials automatically,” she said.


“Can anyone tell me what this is?” the teacher asked. Outside the rust rains had come again and the building reacted by assembling a nano sphere shield. They would be inside until it stopped. None of the children were old enough for the skin adaptation. She might as well keep them busy.
She held up half of a glass object, the top edge crude and sharp.
“A cup?” asked Sarla.
“Close. It’s been broken. It’s from the 21st century, circa 2017. Let me show you what it used to look like,” said the teacher. She turned the Time Jog to find images of the object in its prime. There was a website – an old page of text that had once been viewed on a glass screen – that showed the item whole. It was some sort of silicate jar with red beads inside, much like the sand outside the school. She projected the image in the air in front of her.
“An hourgulp,” said Rudo. He had been weaned off of ed-stim and could finally focus on human faces. He searched for a reaction in his teacher’s. She smiled.
“Very good,” she said. “But they called it an ‘hourglass’ back then. That’s an excellent answer, though,” she said. She glanced to her periphery to bring up his daily log and noted his face-to-face interaction improvement. His overall score inched out of the red and into the yellow.
He made a smile like a grimace. She noted that, too. Facial expressions were an indicator of a healthier mind..text .crunchreport h3 {color:#fff}

		Latest Crunch Report 







Element Raises $102 Million | Crunch Report





Watch More Episodes



“Before we came to this planet, our home, the planet Earth was full of artisanal objects that they sent up the gravity well in hopes of recreating our old life. They had special writing tools called pencils and objects made of paper that they could read with their eyes. They also had special foods, like pickled cucumbers,” said the teacher.
“That’s discussing,” said Rudo.
“Disgusting, yes. They didn’t understand the things we do now,” said the teacher. “They also had things like this, things that had little value but were still used in order to improve their moods, like the drugs we use now. We have little use for an object like this now but at the time it cost a very reasonable $12,000. It was made by a great artist, Marc Newson. He once made an object that all of the earth humans adored. It was their god.”
“Dollars?” asked Pip. He was still ed-stimming but something passed through to his subconscious and he woke out of his educational reverie.

“Dollars are old money,” said the teacher.
“Wasn’t that a lot?” asked Sarla. “I saw an old YuTubez about dollars. They were expensive.”
“Not much more than a printed organ costs today. They didn’t have important things to spend their money on so they spent it on silly things. Remember, this was one hundred years ago. Times have changed,” said the teacher.
The children nodded. Many of them had had their biomes replaced at the age of five. They remembered their parents worrying about the cost and they remembered the pain. But now they could breathe the methane outside. So they understood that now you spent money on important things.
“What’s a Hodinkee?” asked Pip.
“We don’t know. But what is important is that we understand that this is how the early people told time. It was very sad for them and they were very naive to spend so much on a glass object,” said the teacher.
“We’ll never be that dumb again,” said Rudo.
Some of the kids giggled. Pip fell back into edu-stim and began to drool. The teacher sent a hover to clean him.
As the hover washed the boy’s face the teacher looked out past the horizon of the red, dead planet and remembered the YuTubez of the earth shattering, 15 cities blossoming red then black, the final ships escaping her orbit and entering the future. Then she looked back at her students, ten children, five stuck in a virtual dream world, their metallic carapaces glinting in the soft light above. The burning rain outside slid off the nano spheres and hissed on the ground. We’ll never be that dumb again, she thought, imagining how care-free humans had been, buying needless hourglasses while their politicians plotted the End War. Let’s hope so.


Google co-founder Sergey Brin is building a massive airship, we learned in April, and now The Guardian reports some additional details about the purpose and nature of the project. It’ll be used both as a private luxury air yacht for Brin and his retinue, as well as for humanitarian aid purposes. Also, it’ll be the largest aircraft in the world, at nearly 200 meters (656 feet) in length. Go big or go biggest.
While it would be the biggest active aircraft, it would still be smaller than either the Hindenburg or USS Macon airships from history – the latter of which occupied the same hangar where Brin is currently building his new aerial masterpiece. Its construction is being funded entirely with his own money (of which he as plenty), and once completed, it’ll be used to ferry supplies including food on humanitarian missions around the world, as well as for personal intercontinental travel.
Brin’s longtime personal fascination with zeppelins and airships helped fuel his interest in building his own, and he enlisted the help of various experts in the field, including former NASA programs director Alan Weston. While Brin originally hoped to use hydrogen (yes, Hindenburg-style hydrogen) to lift the craft, it’s currently being developed to employ helium, in accordance with FAA regulations.
No word yet on when Brin’s airborne conveyance will actually take to the skies, but it’ll be hard to miss when it does, given the scope and scale of the project. Many of us probably remember gawking at the ocean-going yachts of Silicon Valley’s brightest stars from the first big tech boom – maybe airships will be the luxe transportation item de rigueur for the next generation.

: Jason Knight/Flickr UNDER A CC BY 2.0 LICENSE
The startup insurance application processor Quilt has added a life insurance product to its portfolio and has begun pitching its digital enrollment in 37 states across the country.
In partnership with Generation Life (a 50-year-old insurance company that was recently acquired by Swiss Re), Quilt is looking to make the process of applying for life insurance easier so that the under-insured population of millennials can have the coverage they need.
Quilt’s digital application can cut the approval process for life insurance policies of up to $1 million from months to a mere 15 minutes, the company said.
The company wouldn’t say what would make someone ineligible for a policy, but noted that “many” of the company’s existing customers could qualify for approval online.
“We are thrilled about this new collaboration and look forward to working with Quilt. Together we will provide high quality products and services to help more young people get life insurance and protect their families,” said Philip Walker, CEO of Generation Life Insurance, in a statement.
Walker, who also serves as the chief executive officer of iptiQ Americas by Swiss Re (according to his LinkedIn profile) has a long history in the insurance business… and the connection to Swiss Re is invaluable for a company like Quilt.
It’s important to note while Quilt is selling life insurance products, it’s not handling the policies themselves.
Basically the company is trying to create a better user experience for new customers, rather than reinvent the policies themselves.
The company launched in 2016 with a renters insurance portal that would speed up the approval process for that type of insurance product. Now, with Generation Life, the company is expanding into its second insurance vertical.
Ultimately, Quilt wants to partner with one insurance provider across a range of categories including travel insurance and pet insurance next in line (not necessarily in that order).
And while Quilt won’t hold the policies, it will handle the process of settling claims in most categories (life insurance… is a different animal, according to Quilt chief executive Blair Baldwin).
And while insurers get a bad rap, Baldwin says it’s mostly undeserved.
“The big carriers make all of their money on their investments,” Baldwin says. “They target 10% returns for the policy business…. They’re really not trying to screw the customer.”
In a sense the industry is maligned because it’s outdated and misunderstood, according to Baldwin.
“You can say what you will about legacy organizations where the average age is 57 and they’re all predominantly older, white gentlemen. They’re trying to run a business and they’re trying to do right by the customer. They just have an outdated mindset,” Baldwin says.
The industry may be old and stodgy, but Quilt is hoping that with its new enrollment process, it can get you covered (I see what they did there).
 
Share economy startups which allow someone to ‘share’ their labour or skills have proliferated over the last few years. Even simple ‘share your skills’ communities with no commercial model have appeared such as Impossible.
Now these companies are joined by Pickle, a peer-to-peer mobile app that enables users to do ‘jobs’ for one another. Founder Daneh Westropp decided to create the app after running away from home and school at the age of 15 and realising that young people are often looking for ways to sustain themselves and make themselves independent.
Users simply say what they want or need and how much they are willing to pay (if anything), others who are willing and capable then ask questions, negotiate and accept. The money is brokered through PayPal and once the Job is completed both parties rate each other. The app takes 20% from each completed job, 10% from either side of the transaction. The company is aiming to raise a seed round. There is an iOS and Android version.
But there’s a twist. Within the app users can ‘dare’ each other, the idea being to add an entertainment element into the mix. And this is a social jobs app with hashtags, @user and threaded comments.
Although all this sounds pretty fanciful, Westropp says the target audience is “Gen Z” and Young Millennials who want to translate their interests into the gig economy. In other words they pick up tasks that are actually in line with what areas of work they are interested in.
She says so far the app has garnered 90,000 users since its launch in January, entirely organically. She adds it is not a TaskRabbit in that it contains dares or challenges making it more like a “social platform for jobs”.
Westropp says Taskrabbit and Bizzby operate “inflexible business models, with long verification processes, limited tasks which translate into expensive and boring interactions with the consumer.” This means they are more like traditional job agencies with no community.
The founding team is Daneh Westropp, Bee Binitie, Dmtry Yhans. So far it has two Angel investors. Frederic Hofmann who is a director at Anthemis group (Fin tech investment company) and Nick Robbins.
Who knows, maybe it will take off with this generation. The challenge it faces is what happens when a young person answers a job that turns out not to be what they thought it was. There is a reason their competitors have longer verification processes rather than none.
In her defence Westropp says they plan a number of safety measures including Phone number verification; Social Network Verification; Admin Moderation; sending your location; Ratings. In addition every job post has a like, dislike and report function which encourages the community to flag jobs that seem suspicious or break community rules. Jobs that are disliked/reported are flagged to the Pickle team, who investigate the issue further.
Engage Ventures is a new, Atlanta-based accelerator fund for early-stage deals. It isn’t managing a ton of money — it just closed on $15 million for its debut effort — but it does have some interesting financial backers.
Unlike a corporate venture unit that’s trying to satisfy one company, Engage has instead secured its capital commitments from 10 Fortune 1000 companies that are, frankly, all over the map, and include AT&T, Chick-fil-A, Cox Enterprises, Delta Air Lines, Georgia-Pacific, Georgia Power Foundation, Intercontinental Exchange, Invesco, The Home Depot and UPS.
The idea, says managing director Thiago Olson, is to ensure Engage’s portfolio companies have as many potential partners, as well as acquirers, as possible.
It’s an interesting proposal, and one we saw more recently and on a much larger scale with Fifth Wall Ventures, a real estate-focused venture firm that earlier this month closed on $212 million in commitments from an array of heavy-hitting corporations in the real estate industry. (Among Fifth Wall’s investors are CBRE, the brokerage and real estate services giant, and Lowe’s, the home improvement franchise.)
Engage isn’t a micro fund, exactly. It’s more like the accelerator spin-off of an Atlanta-based venture firm called Tech Square Ventures, where Olson, a former entrepreneur, is also a venture partner. The outfit is being run independently, however, and it plans to invest in 16 companies each year, focusing in spring and summer on eight companies for three months at a stretch, beginning this August.
Other things to know: There is no sector focus. A startup’s initial product should be built or near completion. And interested startups will receive $75,000. In exchange, Engage is asking for upwards of 6 percent of their businesses. (Olson says Engage will take a smaller ownership stake in startups that are further along or have already raised some outside funding.)
Engage is also promising office space to companies that need it, along with mentorship from a network of local founders and operators who intend to aid the startups with their growth tactics, pricing structures and go-to-market strategies.
Naturally, introductions to Engage’s 10 corporate backers are designed to sweeten the deal, too.
If you’re thinking that Engage sounds an awful lot like the hundreds of other new accelerator programs around world, we’re with you. (As of last year, at least, there were 160 of them in the U.S. alone.)
But it is smartly taking advantage of a growing trend — that of giant companies trying to keep up with the technological shifts that could impact their businesses, and that are willing to work together if it helps to keep them relevant.
Startups can certainly benefit from that trend, too.
To become a member of Engage’s inaugural class, here is more information. Engage, which is based in Georgia Tech’s Technology Square, began taking applications yesterday.
Advertisement		






After a painful first-quarter miss, Snap, the parent company of the popular social app Snapchat, is looking to avoid the same fate in the second.
According to Digiday, Snap is working to drive new and increased business ahead of the end of its second quarter. To do so, the company is said to be cutting deals. In the words of the report, Snap is “looking to goose its ad business with offers of discounts and incentives to ad buyers.”
At least some of the discounts have an end date, it appears. The same report, citing “multiple agency executives,” notes that Snap’s proffered “bonuses, discount coupons and media credits for ad buys” are tied to the close of the second quarter. If the incentives work as likely intended, Snap could book new top line inside the current quarter that might help it meet or best market expectations.



Alex Wilhelm
Contributor



Alex Wilhelm is the editor-in-chief of Crunchbase News and co-host of Equity, TechCrunch's venture capital-focused podcast.

			More posts by this contributor:			
Salesforce marches steadily toward $10B run rate goal
Equity podcast: Uber’s losses, Cloudera’s IPO and the biggest e-commerce acquisition ever



Of course, incentives are not new, and potentially using discounts to drive growth is not something inherently bad. Snap declined to comment on the purported deals.
After its first-quarter miss, Snap’s share fell steeply, erasing much of the company’s post-IPO gains. Snap, which went public at $17 per share, traded as high as $29.44. It’s worth $21.30 today. Therefore, it is not surprising that Snap wants to avoid another embarrassing earnings miss. And to see the company allegedly turn to discounts with expiration windows is not an utter shock.
There is a bit more to the story, however, that we should understand by viewing Snap’s first quarter’s results inside of proper historical context.
Snap’s first quarter
Grounding Snap’s discounting push are its first-quarter results: The company grew rapidly, lost billions and missed expectations on both ends of its line. Snap reported first quarter revenue of $149.65 million. The street had anticipated a $157.98 million tally.
The company was expected to be deeply unprofitable in the quarter, due in part to one-time share-based compensation expenses. Even so, Snap bested the market’s expectation of a $1.92 per share loss with a steeper $2.31 per-share deficit.
And finally, Snap’s growth in daily active users, or DAUs, fell 2 million under the expected tally of 168 million.
That is broad context for why Snap may be pushing hard to ensure that it doesn’t miss again in the second quarter. A similar setback to its share price will put it either at or below its IPO price, a dramatic repudiation of the young company.






Snapchat Revenue (in millions)Create column charts

Second quarter dreamin’
As such, Snap must not miss when it reports its second-quarter results. But there is something lurking beneath the firm’s first-quarter miss that is interesting for us to consider: seasonality. Or perhaps more clearly: too much seasonality, and too soon.
In its S-1, Snap noted that it seasonality impact its business. That fact surprised no one. Ad-based businesses often see more sales during the fourth quarter when holiday buying cycles push consumer spend up. Brands, naturally, want a chunk of those dollars, and they spend to get them.
Snap’s fourth quarter was gangbusters, with the firm reporting $165.68 million in revenue, up from $32.72 million during the fourth quarter of the preceding year. If the sheer magnitude of growth between Snap’s results compared to the year-ago period surprises you, bear in mind that Snap is a very young business, with fewer than four quarters of positive gross margins under its belt, including the first of this year.
The company’s year-over-year results were impressive. But also notable was the firm’s history of continuing to grow sequentially — that is, from one quarter to the next — despite the impact of seasonality. More simply, through the 2015 holiday cycle, Snap’s revenue grew sequentially in the first quarter of 2016 compared to the seasonally-amplified fourth quarter of 2015.
The company generated $32.72 million in revenue during the fourth quarter of 2015 and $38.79 million in revenue during the first quarter of 2016. That gain was smaller than other sequentially-derived revenue gains listed in its S-1, but it showed that, at the time, Snap was growing so quickly that even the impact of seasonality couldn’t knock it off its upward sequential path.

Its forward momentum was greater than the potential for a slow first quarter, compared to the expectedly hot preceding fourth quarter. The company failed to repeat the feat in the first quarter of 2017.
New year, new results
If you recall, Snap’s first quarter brought in $149.65 million in revenue. And, as we listed a moment ago, Snap’s fourth quarter of the preceding year saw $165.68 million in top line. The second figure, from the earlier quarter, is larger than what the company reported in the first quarter. That’s a sequential decline in revenue.
Why do we care? Because as we try to understand the company’s first-quarter miss and its rush to cement the second quarter, we need to have the company’s history in mind. And, of course, historical analogs.
After all Snap, for all its hype, is another social company that sells ads. That’s not precisely new, though Snap is certainly, from a feature perspective, different than Twitter, for example. And, until recently, it was differentiated from products inside the Facebook orbit.
This brings us to a question: Is it normal for a company of Snap’s age to see seasonality impact its revenue in terms of driving its sequential revenue down? Let’s ask Ben Thompson.
Thompson, following Snap’s results, noted on Stratchery that the historical record is not overly kind to the company in this area. Thompson looked at the past results of Google, Facebook, Twitter, and Snap in the following way: After one of the companies started to grow at “>100% […] year-over-year,” how long did it take for the firm to see a seasonally bolstered fourth quarter followed by a sequentially smaller first quarter?
Google won with nine years. Facebook and Twitter both rocked four. Snap, using Thompson’s results, made it just one year.
The obvious inference from the difference is that Snap’s business is operating in a different fashion than the other listed companies, two of which are in its social space.
Its quicker-to-declines results are hard to read positively, except the following perspective: Snap grew so quickly that vetting it against the results of historically similar companies is silly. That sort of argument works for private companies that want to present adjusted EBITDA as profit and other such silly things. We can discount it.
Investors’ expectations
Spry readers will have caught our inconsistency by now, so let’s address it.
That Snap’s revenue fell from the fourth quarter to the first is simple. But, if we compare investor expectations for the first quarter to what happened in the fourth, the market actually anticipated the decline. Bringing the numbers back to you here, investors expected Snap to report $157.98 million, which is still a lighter result than the firm’s fourth-quarter sum.
So, investors were, in fact, ready to allow Snap to snap its record of sequential revenue growth regardless. Again, interpretation is yours, but I have a hard time finding the inordinately bullish in that fact.
All this brings us back to Snap’s second quarter sprint, which takes on extra weight in light of the preceding. Snap not only fell behind historical antecedents’ results but fell under the already low bar that investors set for it, regarding sequential revenue growth consistency.
That’s doubly not good.

You’d be forgiven if you can’t be bothered to drag yourself to the store to shop for shoes and clothes and things for your bedroom. The internet is there for you, after all. But if you don’t know what you want? Well, I guess there is an app for that. And Judah Friedlander wants to take it on.
In this episode of Judah vs. the Machines, Friedlander, a self-described shoe expert because he “has feet,” tries to be better at shopping for three human guinea pigs than an app called Operator.
After standing in phone booths with no phones, not playing pool with pool players, poking fun at a dead plant and engaging in one awkward handshake, Friedlander sat down with three people who can’t bear to shop for themselves and have no idea what they want. To determine the best options for them, he asked them intently about their likes and dislikes, their fears and motivations and their worldly desires to feel refreshed upon waking up.
For his part in the competition between man and AI, we see Friedlander make the very human decision to search Google, the trick up his sleeve, for the items the three shoppers seek. Meanwhile, Operator does its deed using some AI smarts Friedlander decidedly lacks.
In the end, the shoppers had the opportunity to choose between products selected by the human-curated chatbot and those selected by Friedlander. Watch the video above to find out who shops the best and whether there is an answer to Friedlander’s burning question: Are there volcanoes in Austria?
See all eight episodes of Judah vs. the Machines here.
It was a long road that took the two founders of Boxbot from drinks at Drake’s Dealership to winning the prestigious Pear Berkeley Challenge, but both Austin Oehlerking and Mark Godwin are very at home on the road.
The two had successful careers at Tesla and Uber, respectively, two companies that are inarguably on the vanguard of the autonomous driving revolution. But Godwin and Oehlerking both had been bitten by the startup bug, and wanted to solve the problem of last-mile delivery.
The still-in-stealth technology they developed was so impressive that it won the Pear competition — an annual event sponsored by the firm of the same name that awards $250,000 to a startup founded by students, alumna or professors from the University of Berkeley — along with some seed investments from House Capital, Afore Capital and The Graduate Syndicate.
Given their pedigrees — even before joining Uber and Tesla — it’s little wonder that Godwin and Oehlerking took the top prize.
The 35-year-old Godwin began working with drone technology while at Berkeley, doing research for the Office of Naval Research. Godwin then became part of the team that Berkeley fielded alongside the University of Sydney to compete in the DARPA Urban Grand Challenge.
He then went on to found a company called Automa Systems, an early Uber competitor that eventually turned into an Uber for trucking. That company was on the cusp of signing a term sheet and raising capital when Uber approached Godwin with an offer he couldn’t refuse.

For Oehlerking, the path was a little bit less circuitous, but no less impressive. After attending Massachusetts Institute of Technology as an undergrad, Oehlerking took a job as the director of vehicle engineering for Arcimoto, a Eugene, Ore.-based company making electric three-wheelers.
The 30-year-old co-founder then went back to grad school to do more work on electric vehicles, and landed a job at Tesla after graduation, where he worked on their partnership with Toyota, working on the Rav 4 drive train and then on the Model S.
Knowing that he wanted to run his own firm, Oehlerking returned to the East Coast to get a business degree from Harvard and then made his way back out West yet again.
The two men were introduced through a mutual friend from Harvard Business School, and were both on the same messaging channel for Stanford and Harvard alums interested in new mobility technologies.

Those common interests spurred Oehlerking and Godwin to launch Boxbot. And while the company is still in stealth, one could imagine that their last-mile delivery solution will combine aspects of autonomy and drones.
A longtime supporter of student efforts a Stanford, Pear has been active investing in companies from the other side of the bridge thanks to the talent that’s been on display, according to Pejman Nozad.
“UC Berkeley is a boiling ocean of entrepreneurs,” says Nozad in a statement. “The next big thing might be coming from the other side of the bridge!”
The $250,000 equity commitment that Nozad and his partner make in the winning Berkeley company comes with a nod to the university through a 10 percent gift of Pear’s equity stake back to the university.
“We are excited for this high-caliber technology team and we appreciate Pear VC for its contribution to Berkeley’s vibrant new venture ecosystem,” said Ikhlaq Sidhu, founder of Berkeley’s Sutardja Center for Entrepreneurship & Technology (SCET).
Businesses usually spend lots of time and money trying of attract potential customers. Now a startup called Riley aims to help them prioritize those sales leads.
Riley was part of the winter class at Y Combinator. (In fact, CEO Daniel Ahmadizadeh said he and his co-founder Helson Taveras applied several times with different products and ideas before getting in.) The startup is announcing today that it has raised $3.1 million in seed funding.
The current version of Riley is focused on real estate agents. If you see an ad or listing for an agent who’s using Riley and you decide to give them your information, you’ll get a text message within a few minutes from the agent’s “office manager” or “assistant,” asking some basic questions about you and what you’re looking for.
So even if the agent is busy or sleeping, the potential customer still gets a response right away. And it goes beyond being a simple auto-responder — Riley has a team of live concierges (Ahmadizadeh said they’re mostly college students for now) who follow scripts. Over time, as the real estate agents rate their performance and review their scripts, the concierges should get better.
And after each conversation, Riley can tell the agent which leads should be pursued first.

“When the real estate agent wakes up in the morning, they’ll know which hot lead they should focus on, versus the nine other cold leads that came in the middle of the night,” Ahmadizadeh said.
 Riley’s funding comes from YC, FundersClub, Social Capital, Fuel Capital, Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers, Liquid 2 Ventures, Rough Draft Ventures and angel investors including WayUp CEO Liz Wessel and YC’s Michael Seibel and Paul Buchheit.
Ahmadizadeh said Riley has already built software to make the interaction easier for the concierges, and over time, he hopes to automate more of the process — though even under the current system, Riley is already managing more than 100,000 conversations each month.
In addition, he eventually plans to expand beyond working with real estate agents: “Our thought longer term is to be vertical agnostic — not just real estate — and communication-channel agnostic.”

: Riley
U.S. consumers may be cutting the cord with pay TV, but that doesn’t mean they’ve stopped watching the big screen, according to new data released by Nielsen this morning. In a report detailing the viewing habits of U.S. adults, the measurement firm found that 92 percent of all viewing among U.S. adults (those 18 and older) still takes place on the TV screen.
The data was collected during the fourth quarter of 2016, and compares TV screen-based viewing to viewing on PCs, tablets, smartphones, and other TV-connected devices like game consoles and streaming players such as the Apple TV, Chromecast, Roku and others.

By combining the gross minutes viewed on TV (82.1 percent) with those minutes viewed using TV-connected devices (10.2 percent), Nielsen determined that the lion’s share of video watching continues to be on the big screen. Meanwhile, PCs accounted for 5.1 percent of video-watching minutes during the quarter, smartphones were 1.8 percent, and tablet video was only 0.7 percent.
These findings contradict the current belief that the increasing usage of mobile phones for video viewing has come at the expense of the TV.
“This analysis is based on actual, behavioral data and that is what makes Nielsen an industry leader,” said Peter Katsingris, SVP Audience Insights, Nielsen, about the company’s findings.
“What we found was that contrary to the popular narrative that smaller screens were taking away time from the TV glass, when we looked deeper we found that overall time spent viewing on the TV had the most minutes among every age or ethnic demographic looked at. In some cases the share of viewing was as much as 97 percent,” he added.
That’s not to say that TV-watching means linear television delivered through cable or satellite providers, of course. What sort of content was being watched was not a focus of Nielsen’s study. It’s likely that many of these consumers are not watching live TV, but are instead streaming Netflix or other video content from online services through smart TVs or attached players.

However, while the TV still has a strong toehold for now in terms of total minutes spent viewing, when you delve into the data from other angles, you can see where the smartphone is gaining ground. For example, 91 percent of those 18 to 34 use smartphones each week, but only 79 watch TV. (However, these users do prefer TV-connected devices, as over half use them each week.)
In addition, smartphones account for 30 percent of the total average audience among those 18 to 34, versus 29 percent for TV. Compare that with the older age group (50+), where smartphones only account for 17 percent, and TV 54 percent. (Average audience is defined as the number of adults engaging with the platform in an average minute during the week.)

And smartphones are more heavily used among this younger group (18-34) than TV, accounting for 19 hours, 39 minutes of weekly viewing, compared with 19 hours, 18 minutes taking place on TV.

The larger takeaway here is that while the TV may still be the preferred screen for video watching among adults, the smartphone is gaining ground with the youngest demographic. But the overall averages for adults may not fully reflect this shift, due to how much the oldest adults still watch TV.

: Netflix
Personal finance management app MoneyLion was created to help users save money, reduce debt and improve their credit. Today the app is being updated to provide users with more personalized information about how they can improve their financial health, as well as even faster access to personal loans.
Like other PFM apps, MoneyLion works by connecting with all of a user’s bank, credit card, student loan and other financial accounts and then providing them with information about how they could improve their financial health.
One way it does this is by giving users personalized recommendations to encourage positive financial behaviors. By analyzing their individual spending habits and credit, the MoneyLion app gives daily advice based on a user’s most recent financial information.
Another way it aims to help users is by improving their credit. It offers free credit reports from TransUnion and Equifax, push notification credit monitoring and access to credit counseling and credit repair services.
The latest version of the MoneyLion app has an updated user interface to make things easier to navigate and provide faster access to the information. With its new UI, MoneyLion’s home navigation now shows swipe-able cards to provide up-to-date information, recommendations and personalized advice.
The app also has streamlined the process of applying for personal loans from MoneyLion itself. Users who are looking to borrow from MoneyLion can now get a loan approved in as little as 15 seconds, and can have funds in their account as quickly as the same business day.
That combination of personalized financial advice and access to personal loans is helping users improve their financial health, MoneyLion says. Customers have saved more than $5 million in rate reductions and rewards by demonstrating good financial behavior, and users save $46 on average in overdraft fees each month, the company says.
Are five human heads better than one computer brain? Not when it comes to playing Go. AlphaGo, the AI created to play the game of Go better than anyone alive, has defeated a team made up of five Go champions in a demonstration match on Friday.
The team included Chen Yaoye, Zho Ruiyang, Mi Yuting, Shi Yue and Tang Weixing, and on the AlphaGo side – just AlphaGo, obviously. The match ended when the human players resigned in the face of AlphaGo’s certain victory.
Another demo match on Friday saw a human/AlphaGo team take on another human/AlphaGo team, this time with Gu Li and the AI going head-to-head with Lian Xiao and his own artificial teammate. Lian Xiao and his AlphaGo companion ended up victorious, also forcing a resignation from the opposing side.
Commentators noted that the human players seemed to be enjoying observing and studying AlphaGo’s moves, and adapting their own play as a result. That’s basically what Eric Schmidt celebrated in a tweet, embedded below, and Google’s own social media accounts are echoing similar sentiments.


This speaks volumes about where AI is headed – human players are teaming up with AlphaGo to have even more fun with the game! https://t.co/42X58NvEga
— Eric Schmidt (@ericschmidt) May 26, 2017



All of which is to say: Don’t panic, AIs are our friends!
…for now.
Far Cry 5 developer Ubisoft is playing with fire – hellfire, that is, as it sometimes arises in America’s more backwater regions. The Montana setting for the forthcoming Far Cry game is a very different type of locale for the series, which typically features tropical destinations as the backdrop for its super violent action-packed gameplay.
This trailer reveals that not only will Far Cry 5 occur in a setting much closer to home for Americans, it’ll also deal with issues that are very central to current affairs. As the game’s hero, you’ll be taking on leadership of a resistance opposing a fanatical religious cult, which, based on the trailer above, takes considerable inspiration from fundamentalist Christian communities. One might say it has certain… documentary qualities.
Far Cry: Primal pushed the envelope in a very different way, taking away players’ guns and throwing them back to the beginning of human civilization. Far Cry 5 looks like it could incense and alienate an entire group of gamers – ironically the same that might be irate about having their guns taken away IRL. But it also looks interesting as hell, and that’s bound to keep the attention of franchise fans, politics aside.
I’ll be in Reykjavik next week and you know what that means… I want to meet you! So we’ll be holding a small meetup (not really a pitchoff but feel free to pitch me while I’m there) at Bryggjan Brugghús, Grandagarði 8, 101 Reykjavík, Iceland.
The event is being held on Tuesday, May 30, from 5 PM to 7 PM UTC.
Event starts at 5pm and you can meet the speakers and mentors coming to Startup Iceland 2017. Expect some booze, some fun, and some nice networking.
You can RSVP here. See you soon!
The League, a dating app that prides itself on selectiveness and requires members to be approved before joining, has traditionally taken expansion pretty slow. Originally launched in early 2015, the app is still only in 7 cities – New York, San Francisco, Los Angeles, Chicago, Boston, Washington D.C and London.
But the startup just announced they are about to embark on a summer tour, adding 10 cities before the end of August.
They are: Philadelphia, Atlanta, Miami, Austin, Houston, Dallas, San Diego, Denver, Seattle and Toronto.
These will roll out in batches, with the first three to launch being Philly, Atlanta and Miami in early June.
The startup will also be hosting a launch party in each city, which they explained is a good way to show its new members that The League is more than a random app on your phone – and actually has a human and community element behind it. This is especially important because a major component of The League’s monetization strategy is pairing you up with a real person (who they call a concierge) to help you perfect your dating profile, as well as advertising real-life events in your city.
A lot of data goes into deciding what cities The League expands to. Instead of rolling out nationally on day one like other dating apps have done, they have focused on slowly adding cities to make sure they are the right ones to support the app. For example, the startup looks at the amount of college educated singles in each city before launching, which they aptly translated into a list of the best cities for aspiring power-couples.

Of course since The League requires approval to join, the startup needs to make sure they have enough users in each city before they open the doors. That’s why each city has a waiting list that is already open today. Since The League typically likes to launch a city with 2,000 “founding members”, and their approval rate is between 20-30%, a city needs about 10,000 people on the waitlist before it makes sense for the app to launch there.
These 10 new cities will bring The League to 16 total cities by the end of the summer, putting them close to their new goal of 20 cities (with at least a few more being international) by the end of 2017.
This looks like a scooter, but it’s actually the BMW Motorrad Concept Link, the latest in BMW’s series of exhaustingly named Motorrad concept vehicles, which imagine a not-so distant future in which we all travel around in angular, sci-fi style.
The Link offers an electric drive, which makes possible the lower seat that BMW says facilitates easily getting on and off the vehicle. It has a reverse gear, which is not typical of many motorcycles, letting you negotiate city spaces more easily. There’s onboard storage under the seat bench, and it has cutaways that let you see the technology powering it within.



There’s no instrument cluster on the Link, but that’s because it projects information like speed, remaining charge and navigation information right onto the windscreen. The windscreen can also be swapped out for other options for greater personalization. There’s also a secondary display below the handle bars that offers touchscreen input, and the handlebars have built-in touch sensitive controls for easy access to favorite features while en route.
BMW goes beyond the bike to include a design for rider equipment, including a lightweight jacket with hidden protection. There’s also motion controls built in that let you open the luggage door with a wave of your arm.
These Motorrad concepts aren’t likely to enter production anytime soon, but instead provide some insight into where BMW thinks the industry is headed. I could go for a flash future scooter, so this one makes sense to me.
		
Hello and welcome back to Equity, TechCrunch’s venture capital-focused podcast where each week we tell jokes about other people’s money.
This week, Katie Roof, Matthew Lynley and I — Alex Wilhelm — were joined by Rick Kline, a partner at Goodwin Procter. Kline is a lawyer focused on “M&A transactions [and] capital markets transactions,” according to his official bio, making him an ideal addition to the crew for this week’s natter.
On the show we took a dive into IPOs, what constitutes a good pop, and who might be next. We also drilled into the massive new Softbank fund and what it might mean for tech rounds both big and small. Oh, and Peloton remains something that we can’t get enough of. Some of us even Soul Cycle.
It was good to be back in the studio following our live edition in New York. (If you missed it, catch up!).
Equity drops every Friday at 6:00 am PT, so subscribe to us on iTunes, Overcast, Pocketcast, Downcast and all the casts.
When Solar Impulse pilot Bertrand Piccard set out to fly around the world in a plane that uses no fuel, he knew he wasn’t going to get much rest. During the journey, he would be able to sleep, at a maximum, three hours per day with rest meted out in twenty-minute intervals. The plane, which could only accommodate one aviator, required a human systems check every twenty minutes.
For part of the journey, Piccard used Sana Health technology to put him to sleep in flight, and to sleep as deeply as possible during those scant moments.
The Sana Sleep “smart goggles,” will be available to the too-tired public starting in the second quarter of 2018, according to Sana Health founder and CEO Richard Hanbury. The company recently closed a $1.3 million round of seed funding from Founders Fund, Maveron and SOSV, among others. The goggles will sell for about $400 a pair, Hanbury said.
The entrepreneur began working on this technology as a solution to his own chronic pain and related sleep issues. He suffered from chronic nerve damage pain, after surviving a disabling Jeep accident in Yemen in 1992. However, the technology has broad-based appeal. Not including defiant toddlers, everyone wants a good night’s rest.
Sana Health founder and CEO Richard Hanbury.
Still, one in three adults in the U.S. doesn’t get enough sleep, according to the most recent available data from the CDC. Insomniacs suffer mood and memory impairments, among other undesirable corollaries, researchers from the University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine have verified.
Sniffing a major market opportunity in the restless masses, a number of tech companies have begun trying to allay insomnia in recent years. They’re making mattresses of novel materials, a wide variety of wearables, sleep tracking apps and other IoT devices to encourage better sleep.
Venture investors are falling for the promise of a good night’s rest, too. According to deal tracker Crunchbase (which is owned by TechCrunch’s parent company) at least 30 sleep-related tech startups, including 6 hardware companies, landed seed or venture rounds since the start of last year.
For its part, the Sana Sleep looks like padded goggles, or a pared down and comfy version of a VR headset. It is being tested currently with athletes in training who want the most restorative sleep they can get while traveling extensively.
Hanbury explained this is how the device works: “It uses audio-visual stimulation to trigger specific patterns in the brain. In the same way that when you go into a nightclub, and hear fast music and see strobed lights, this produces an excited state in your brain, this device produces the patterns your brain needs in order to produce deep states of relaxation.”

The goggles emit pulses of light and sound. The wearer is conscious of the lights and sounds at the outset of each use, but becomes less aware of these as they drift off to sleep. The goggles measure things like a users’s pulse and breathing, and customizes the signals in response to the individual’s biometrics.
The goggles must be trained, initially. After about 4 uses wearers (even those dealing with chronic pain issues) can get to sleep within ten minutes, and more importantly can sleep through the night.
Prior to closing their seed round, Sana Health had raised $450,000 including from the HAX hardware accelerator run by SOSV. The firm reupped its investment in Sana’s seed round, according to General Partner Cyril Ebersweiler, because its technology solves the hardest sleep cases.
“Sana is based on 24 years of sleep research and has gone through extensive subject trials. While bringing continuous improvement to the experience, the company will need to now spend some time understanding which distribution channels are the most adapted for its offering,” he said.
The efficacy of the company’s goggles in early tests have led Sana Health to pursue a classification as a medical device from the FDA in the US.

: Sana Health
Nintendo is unleashing a monster title on the Switch — quite literally — after Capcom revealed plans to bring its Monster Hunter franchise to the console with the upcoming Monster Hunter XX title. (That’s “double cross” not “XX,” by the way.)
While it might not be mainstream in the West, Monster Hunter is a huge franchise in Japan.
Where do we start? Past games in the series have helped Sony sell millions of PSPs, Nintendo sell millions of 3DSes and literally gotten top marks from the critics. The original game graced the PlayStation 2 in 2004, and newer additions have landed on the PS3, PS Vita, Wii, Wii U, Xbox 360 not to mention Windows and iOS. XX was actually first released for the 3DS in March and there’s plenty of anticipation for the Switch version.
Today’s reveal is a big deal for gamers, but equally so for Nintendo the business. The firm’s share price jumped over five percent on the news. Today alone, Nintendo added $2.2 billion to its market cap as its share price reached its highest since October 2008.

There’s no word for now on when Monster Hunter XX will land on Switch. More information has been teased for Saturday — which is also the date of this year’s Monster Hunter Championship — so diehards won’t have to wait too long.
The Raspberry Pi Foundation has announced it’s merging with another code club charity, Dublin-based CoderDojo. The aim is to advance shared goals around furthering the march of computing education for young people.
CoderDojo began in 2011, and at this point there are more than 1,250 of its code clubs across 69 countries, which it says are regularly attended by more than 35,000 young people between the ages of seven and 17.
The aim of the pair joining forces is to quadruple that number — with the goal of having 5,000 CoderDojos up and running by the end of 2020.
“Bringing together Raspberry Pi, Code Club, and CoderDojo will create the largest global effort to get young people involved in computing and digital making,” said Philip Colligan, CEO of the Pi Foundation, in a blog post announcing the merger.
The Pi Foundation’s core mission has always been to get more kids coding — even as the low-cost single-board computers it designs have found their way into the hands of makers of all ages.
It said today it will provide practical, financial and back-office support to the CoderDojo Foundation, which will continue as an independent charity, based in Ireland — freeing it up to focus on scaling its network. The merger is subject to approval by Irish regulators.
“Nothing about CoderDojo’s brand or ethos is changing as a result of this merger,” added Colligan. “CoderDojos will continue to be platform-neutral, using whatever kit they need to help young people learn.”
Colligan will be joining the board of the CoderDojo Foundation as a director, while the Pi Foundation will become a corporate member, though there’s no financial interest here as both are not-for-profits.
This is not the Pi Foundation’s first such merger. Back in November 2015 it also joined forces with U.K.-based Code Club.
At the time there were around 3,150 Code Clubs in the U.K., with some 44,000 regular attendees, and a further 1,000 clubs globally. Figures that have since stepped up to almost 5,900 U.K. Code Clubs reaching around 82,000 kids, and a wider network of 10,000 Code Clubs around the world reaching circa 100,000 kids.
“Code Club and CoderDojo are both massively successful organisations in their respective areas, with strong brands. The rationale for the merger is the same: alignment of goals, communities and day-to-day activities, but very little overlap between programs and funding sources. We expect to be able to achieve significant economies of scale, and to learn from each others’ different approaches and experiences,” Colligan told TechCrunch.
“One of the most attractive aspects from my personal point of view is CoderDojo’s strong presence in the developing world,” he added.
He said the Foundation does not have “any immediate plans for further mergers” at this point.
Soft Space, a payment provider in Southeast Asia, has closed its $5 million Series A as it looks to expand across the region, and potentially into Japan.
Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia-based Soft Space works with large enterprise customers, typically banks, to offer customized solutions for mobile payment, both at point-of-sale and other parts of the process. Typically these solutions are white-labeled. The startup currently active in its home market, Thailand, Indonesia and Taiwan. This new investment is provided entirely by Transcosmos, a Japanese firm that specializes in business and expansion which works with chat app Line among others.
Beyond providing capital, the deal is strategic for both parties, Soft Space chief strategy officer Chris Leong told TechCrunch. With the backing of Transcosmos and existing partners such as Sumitomo Mitsui Card Corporation — which invested in Square and Stripe to help them expand to Japan — Soft Space is assessing the potential to move into Japan. It is also working closely with Japanese firms that are eying the market in Southeast Asia to help them expand and adapt to local payment behaviors.
“Japanese companies are really coming into Southeast Asia as the next phase of growth,” Leong said.
Indeed, the internet economy in the region is tipped to grow to be worth $200 billion annually within the next decade, according to a report authored by Google. Indonesia, Southeast Asia’s largest economy and highest population, is a particular expansion focus and Leong said that Soft Space “wants to do more” in the country.
The company, which currently has 76 employees across three offices, isn’t going to go crazy on the hiring front, Leong said, but it is looking into acquiring requisite financial licenses across its core markets: Malaysia, Thailand and Indonesia. That would allow it to operate independently, whereas currently it must work with local partners.
Leong added that the company recorded take-home revenues of 27.8 million MYR ($6.5 million) over the last year. While it has reached break-even already, he said that profitability isn’t an immediate focus — instead the priority is scale and development.
Spruce, a new startup looking to speed up the mortgage-closing process, has raised $4.5 million in its Series A financing from Bessemer Venture Partners, Omidyar Network and Third Prime Capital, along with a slew of private angel investors.
Founded by two former employees of the robo-advisory wealth management company Betterment, the new startup is notable for a few reasons.
First, it’s yet another startup launching to tackle the real estate market — an industry that’s been a huge target for venture dollars — and it’s also a clear sign that the ecosystem in New York is maturing.
When you have startups begetting more startups, it’s a strong indicator of the health of a particular ecosystem. The same can be said for the involvement of core group of Betterment employees that invested in Spruce’s Series A.
Betterment chief executive Jon Stein, vice president of communications and policy Joe Ziemer, vice president of operations Boris Khentov and Mike Reust, the VP of engineering, all invested in their former co-workers’ new venture.
Founded by Patrick Burns, former product manager at Betterment and Spruce’s chief executive, and Andrew Weisgall, the chief operating officer at Spruce and former head of data science at Betterment, Spruce is angling to reduce the time to close a real estate deal by improving title insurance assessment and issuance.

That arcane corner of the real estate market can take as much as 4-5 days and costs property buyers and seller up to roughly $4,000, according to a statement from the company.
It’s also an incredibly lucrative practice. Roughly $15 billion in annual premiums flow to title insurance, and most of that is retained by agents. That number doesn’t even include another $5 billion in extra fees charged for closing and escrow services.
The guys at Spruce guesstimate that fees to title companies may be the single largest closing cost in buying or refinancing a home.
https://vimeo.com/217687814 
“After hearing of countless frustrating experiences from the mires of real estate transactions, we saw a great need to apply those same principles, knowing that doing so could have a big effect,” Burns wrote to me in an email.
The learning experience for Burns began with some channel surfing and binge watching HGTV. On the show Burns wrote that he would watch house flippers nickel and dime over building costs, but eat thousands of dollars in closing fees to ensure they would receive title insurance.
In a blog post published earlier today, the company stressed the importance of title insurance, noting that it protects the property rights of real estate owners.
Here’s the problem, as Spruce sees it:

The work that goes into establishing that certainty costs money, so you would expect some of the premiums to go towards that. However, that’s not all that is going on—title companies are far less efficient than they could be at doing that work. The research, processing, escrow and closing that comprise a title company’s role in ensuring and insuring that a real estate transaction is legally effective are often extremely manual, paper based processes. That means they’re more costly than they need to be, more error prone, subject to increasing amounts of fraud, and provide a slower and more opaque process for borrowers than might otherwise be possible.
Why haven’t these companies kept up with the times, and applied modern technology to their operations? Lack of incentive, of course.
Demand is guaranteed—mortgage companies require you to buy a policy, and realtors and lenders often direct you to one specific title insurance agent that would consider you a ‘captive customer’, leaving you open to paying more than you should for a worse experience than you deserve.

Spruce is in 11 states today, and it plans to expand to reach 24 by the end of next month. It’s targeting a fully nationwide service by the end of this year.

: Anikei/Getty Images
For those operating a bitcoin exchange — where people can buy cryptocoins — you’d imagine that the current surge in value for bitcoin and others like Ethereum’s ether coin is a dream come true. The answer is yes and no.
Coinbase, the world’s most funded bitcoin exchange, was dragged offline by the massive increase in interest in the space. Users have reported issues with various aspects of the service this week, and things reached a head on Thursday when the Coinbase website and mobile apps were unavailable to users for hours due to “unprecedented” levels of trading and traffic, the company said.
Bitcoin crossed the $2,000 mark for the first time this past weekend, and the charge continued this week until yesterday when, after reaching a new high of $2,805 on the Coinbase exchange, the valuation fell to $2,307. The currency has since stabilized, but its current value of $2,475.23 represents a $116.41 drop over the last 24 hours.
“The market cap of digital currencies has increased ~50 percent to $91 billion in the past week. As a result, Coinbase has seen a dramatic increase in traffic and trading volume,” the company told TechCrunch in a statement.
“The Coinbase engineering and support teams have been working round the clock to keep up with this unprecedented volume. However, Coinbase.com has suffered a few outages, including degraded performance and deposit/withdrawal delays for some users. We are actively working on resolving these issues and restoring our site to normal performance,” it added.


Typical @coinbase pic.twitter.com/hLU0xz9JK5
— CentralFloridaNews (@FightingCrimeFL) May 25, 2017



Things seem more stable today, with the Coinbase website and app functioning as usual. Having said that, at the time of writing, there are some minor issues with certain debit and credit cards, according to the company’s own status report.
According to Crunchbase, Coinbase has raised more than $117 million from investors that include Bank Of Tokyo – Mitsubishi UFJ, the New York Stock Exchange, Union Square Ventures, Draper Fisher Jurvetson and Andreessen Horowitz. Its $75 million Series C in 2015 was a record funding round for any bitcoin-focused startup.

: Jon Russell/Flickr
Today’s Stories 

Uber and Lyft to return to Austin starting Monday
Watch Mark Zuckerberg’s Harvard commencement speech here
Sherif Marakby rejoins Ford to lead self-driving after leaving Uber
Microsoft’s game streaming service Beam rebrands as Mixer, adds co-streaming, a guide & mobile broadcasting

Credits
Written by: Tito Hamze, John MannesHosted by: Tito HamzeEdited by: Joe ZolnoskiFilmed & Teleprompter: Joe Zolnoski
Notes:

I don’t know what to wear on Crunch Report (It’s a hard decision and I suck at dressing myself). If you are a startup and want to me to wear something mail me an XL T-shirt and I’ll wear it in an episode. I’m not going to mention the company on the shirt in the episode but it will be there. No offensive stuff, it’s totally at my discretion if I wear it. Mail it to me. Thanks <3 Ok, bye.

TechCrunch C/O Tito Hamze
410 Townsend street
Suite 100
San Francisco Ca. 94107
Advertisement		





Playing god has never been a particularly strange ambition for Silicon Valley.
Even so, there are few verticals filled with more utopian dreams than the studios and startups building virtual and augmented reality experiences. While some are looking to craft 3D experiences that integrate into the real world, others are aiming to create massive worlds we can escape to. The one thing many of them have in common, however, is that they are built on a game engine from a company called Unity.
Unity Technologies, which builds tools for developers crafting 3D content across multiple platforms, has been having a pretty solid year.
Earlier this week, the company announced that it has closed a massive $400 million investment from Silver Lake Partners that, according to a report in the WSJ, valued the company at $2.8 billion. This raise comes hot on the heels of a $181 million investment just 10 months prior.
“Unity could be one of the most important technology companies in the next decade,” said Barry Schuler, a partner at DFJ Growth, which led Unity’s last round.
Schuler’s biases should be apparent, but his belief — that if virtual and augmented reality manage to take off, then Unity will be poised for greatness — is one shared by many investors and industry insiders I’ve chatted with.
Opportunity
The world Unity is ripe for is one based on spatial computing, a term for technologies that enable our interactions with digital objects to grow much more in line with how we interact with real-world things.
Rendering of a user viewing 3D objects with Microsoft HoloLens
Shopping for clothes online might transform from scrolling on a handheld device to peering at a real-world mirror and seeing what a hat or shirt would look like mapped in 3D on your head. It’s a world that’s limitless in its potential, though it will likely rely on some groundbreaking hardware to enable it as well as powerful software suites known as game engines.
Game engines may have initially been built for video game titles, but the needs of several other major industries are beginning to line up and shape the ambitions of the companies like Unity that create them.
Unity CEO John Riccitiello
“We call it a game engine, but really it’s an animation/interactive/lighting/physics/presence engine,” Unity CEO John Riccitiello told TechCrunch. “And it happens to also be what Audi needs. And it happens to be what the guys at the Large Hadron Collider also need.”.text .crunchreport h3 {color:#fff}


Riccitiello joined Unity in 2014 as CEO, taking the reigns of the company from co-founder David Helgason who started the company from the ashes of a faltering game studio in Copenhagen. Prior to joining, Riccitiello served as CEO of Electronic Arts, one of the world’s largest video game companies.
Ubiquity
When Unity launched it was just another game engine — its breakthrough moment came when it was first to launch development support for the iPhone, bringing a host of developers into the world of iOS in its earliest days.
A decade later, the company has around 1,400 employees and its software powers more than half of all new mobile gaming titles.
The SF-based company may already have a healthy grasp on mobile, with competitors like Epic Games and their Unreal engine focusing more heavily on desktop gaming, but an area where Unity is increasingly focusing its efforts is in the AR/VR space.
“Nobody that worked at Unity five or 10 years ago thought that we were going to be perfectly positioned for VR,” said Riccitiello. “I don’t think that we’re making Unity into all these different things, I think that all these other industries now need what’s been traditionally called a game engine.”
More than two-thirds of all content created for AR and VR uses Unity’s engine. Ninety-one percent of applications on emerging AR platforms like the Microsoft HoloLens are created on the engine, while Samsung’s Gear VR has about 90 percent of its gaming titles built using Unity.

While AR and VR technologies are incredibly young, the companies fighting for dominance over the platforms are the ones that have loomed large for quite a while.
Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg demoing one of the company’s virtual reality prototypes
Google has its Daydream platform for mobile VR and its Tango platform for mobile AR. Facebook just introduced its augmented reality platform at its most recent F8 developer conference and also owns Oculus, which makes high-end VR headsets. Later this year, Microsoft will bring Windows Holographic support to VR headsets, and the company has done extensive work on its augmented reality HoloLens headset.
Schuler believes that Unity will only benefit from these companies continuing to duke it out for control, due to the engine’s widespread support for different platforms that users can publish to simultaneously with the click of a few check boxes.
“In the past when there weren’t standards or a winner emerging, it’s typically been bad because you need to get developers to buy into your development platform and make decisions about who is going to emerge the leader and that process slows everything down,” Schuler said. “With Unity, you’re really betting on the category because it has this great ‘write once, publish to everything’ platform.”



The company’s tools are free for personal use and priced on a per-device subscription for larger customers that scales based on the revenues being brought in.
As its capabilities widen and the popularity of its products surge, questions arise on what’s next for the rapidly growing company
One thing Schuler does not expect on Unity’s horizon is an acquisition from a platform giant. “If Google or Facebook were to buy Unity, everything that makes Unity work would go away, what makes it work so well is that they are a pure play, independent company.”
Riccitiello wasn’t too verbose on the topic of an exit, but said going public would be a topic of conversation for the future. “There will be another day when we talk about IPOs, but certainly not now,” he said.
Simplicity
Unity’s simplicity may be one of its greatest selling points, but as the engine matures in its ambitions, so too does the risk of compromising its core mission, Riccitiello says.
“The tension within Unity is always how to deliver this performance that would otherwise yield more and more complexity, and do so really simply. It’s always a vexing problem and a problem with balance,” Riccitiello said.
Below is an example of one of Unity’s Adam demo, highlighting some of the engine’s more intensive, boundary-pushing capabilities at work.

Earlier this month at a virtual reality summit hosted by Unity, famed evolutionary biologist Richard Dawkins came to the stage to offer his perspective on the worlds for which Unity is building its platform, saying, “Our perception of reality… it’s virtual reality, but it’s run by software in the brain.”
Unity may not be in the business of building for brains quite yet, but the prospects of virtual and augmented reality becoming widespread platforms have given the company new dreams to realize with its game engine, Riccitiello says. “Our ambitions are certainly far greater than they ever were before.”


I have to say, I really like e-paper. And it’s come a long way since the crude early Kindles — nowadays you have e-readers that are as high-resolution as the best phones and iPads. And they’re set to get even better if E Ink’s latest screens make it into a few products, as I hope they do.
It’s Display Week in LA, which is exactly what it sounds like: All the display makers get together and admire each other’s displays. This year there’s no doubt a lot of talk around the water cooler about OLED, but E Ink isn’t letting that get to them.
The company is showing off a few new screen types, collaborations with Japan Display Inc., that put to shame the best e-readers on the market today. Just so we’re clear, I’m talking about the fabulous Aura One and the Kindle Oasis, both of which have a display density of about 300 pixels per inch.
What would you say if I told you E Ink was showing off a display that’s… 400 PPI? Would you be impressed? Yes? Well then you’ll be happy to hear they’re also showing one that’s 600 PPI — twice that of its toughest competitors.
You can see in that (highly magnified) picture just how much more information can be fit on a higher-PPI screen, and how much less aliased angled lines are. Really, this will make type look fantastic.
Of course, its competitors are real devices and these displays are tiny strips at a trade show, but still, I get the feeling we’re going to see this tech trickle down to e-readers sooner or later.
The threat of minefields is an ongoing and horrifying one, and the duty of clearing them is as difficult as it is dangerous. All the more reason, then, that it should be done by robots! A new type of inexpensive, versatile bot modeled after turtles could be a great tool for this and other jobs.
Ben Amor and Dan Dukes of Arizona State University were interested in the problem of how to deploy robots quickly to environments where their means of locomotion isn’t necessarily the best. For instance, if your bot has pointy feet and walks like a quadruped, it may not be very effective in sand or rubble. The robot should be able to adapt.
The motion of the fin before learning (top) and after a few learning sessions.
The solution the researchers propose is a robot (the “C-Turtle”) with a simple crawling gait inspired by sea turtles’ movement in sand. A special learning algorithm tweaks the movement on the fly, and the robot itself is basically made from a single sheet of material and can be constructed or modified in a matter of hours.
“In contrast to the majority of reinforcement learning algorithms that potentially require many trials, our method needs only a small number of trial-and-error interactions with the environment to learn how to locomote,” Amor wrote in an email to TechCrunch. “Indeed, in most of our experiments the robot learned a new gait within 1-2 hours.”
It may be, for example, that the robot needs slightly longer or shorter “fins,” or that the motors controlling them need to be juiced up or rotated slightly. This information, Amor and Dukes write, can only reliably come from testing in the environment itself; lab tests with multiple materials can’t prepare the robot’s little brain for every possible combination of dust, dirt, sand and cruft.

Amor told New Scientist that swarms of the bots could be deployed to former combat zones where landmines are often found. A hundred or so would get used to the terrain, then spread out and, upon finding a mine, either notify a handler or… well, it might be obvious that it found one.
At around $80 per unit, they’re cheap enough to make en masse and simple enough that no special training should be required to assemble them. C-Turtle’s creators do plan to release the design at some point.
C-Turtle’s creators will be presenting their work at MIT’s RSS 2017 conference, then at Stanford’s Living Machines. Afterwards they plan to release the design and instructions so other roboticists or interested parties can make their own. You can check out more of the team’s work at ASU’s Idealab.

: Arizona State University
New data out of Stanford is lending credence to common wisdom that fitness trackers suck at counting calories. Heart-rate monitoring, on the other hand, fared surprisingly well in the school’s Medical Center studies.
The group of 60 volunteers was hand-selected to offer a broad range of subjects, factoring in things like gender, body mass index and skin color (optical heart-rate monitoring has a history of being a bit unintentionally racist). The 31 women and 29 men tested various combinations of the Apple Watch (first generation), Basis Peak, Fitbit Surge, Microsoft Band, Mio Alpha 2, PulseOn and Samsung Gear S2 while walking on treadmills and riding stationary bikes.
Those results were compared to data from medical-grade equipment for measuring heart rate and carbon dioxide in the breath, a commonly accepted measure for gauging energy expenditure. Turns out all of the devices other than the Samsung did a pretty solid job on the heart-rate front. The rest had error rates of under five percent, which qualifies them as decent candidates for medical uses.
They’re not going to replace chest straps in the lab any time soon, but the kind of day to day data they collect could be useful for doctors looking for a more complete picture of their patients’ health. At the very least, they could provide some interesting supplemental information.
“Five percent is approaching something useful in a clinical setting, which suggests that doctors may be looking toward this data when evaluating their patients,” graduate student Anna Shcherbina told TechCrunch. “If a doctor has average data on the patient as they’re going about their day, this could provide a more complete picture.”
Caloric information is a different story altogether. And it’s not surprising, really. Heart rate is a pretty direct reading. Calories burned differ hugely from person to person based on a variety of different factors. And the wrist isn’t the logical spot to start a search for caloric information. The system needs to do a fair amount of guesswork based on movements detected by the wearables’ built-in accelerometers.
The range of readings is pretty astounding. The best reading was off by an average of 27 percent and the worst by an appalling 93. To be of any real use for a medical setting, you’re going to want a number under 10 percent. So there’s a lot of work to be done here. Shcherbina says the Apple Watch and Fitbit Surge were the most accurate of the bunch; it was Finnish company PulseOn really missed the mark.
The team unsurprisingly got some pushback from PulseOn when it didn’t enter more precise information like a volunteer’s VO2 max level. In order to get a more accurate picture of the average user, the researchers didn’t enter information that most of us don’t have access to. I know I haven’t been on a treadmill with a VO2 measuring mask on my face any time recently. Perhaps I’m overdue.
Since the study began in 2015, there are newer versions of a number of the devices here. The team admits that, in the case of the Apple Watch, there may be some discrepancies between “active” and “total” calories burned, an issue that may be reconciled as it continues testing on the new version.
The team purchased all devices independently for the integrity of the study — but lead researcher professor Euan Ashley says they’re open to communicating with the companies involved to make sure there’s not some sort of proprietary secret sauce somehow being overlooked.
Both PulseOn and Apple have reached out with feedback, after the paper’s publication, and the team is open to future collaboration. “No concrete plans as of now,” Shcherbina explains, “but we are definitely open to this idea if the companies are interested in working with us. Obviously maintaining our independence/impartiality is key, but closer communication might yield valuable insights about most effective ways to improve fitness algorithms for wearables.”
Apple and Samsung declined to offer a statement, while Fitbit is clearly on the offensive here, sending along a big one. The wearable maker touches upon its “extensive, ongoing research and development,” but adds that the caloric estimates that trackers give are just that — estimates:
Fitbit trackers show an estimated total number of calories burned based on users’ BMR (basal metabolic rate) and activity energy expenditure (AEE). Fitbit uses a scientifically validated estimate of BMR based on height, weight, age, and gender information that users provide when setting up their Fitbit account.
The company also argues that there’s something to be said for the base-level motivation that simply wearing a tracker brings. It’s a fair point. If the sort of gamification that these devices bring does get more people off their butts, that’s probably a net positive and a big part of what’s driving the category’s success. I know plenty of people (myself included) who find the simple act of wearing one of these devices on their wrist cause to get off their respective butts.
Shcherbina agrees with the point, but adds that there’s a big downside for those who rely on such readings to make “very precise decisions about exercise and food based on that, then it might be off by quite a bit and they may not get the results they want and become frustrated.”
As more health providers look to trackers for data, the category is likely to come under increased scrutiny from regulators like the FDA. As it currently stands, however, that body doesn’t oversee any sort of claims made for these “non-medical” products.
“Our position is that ‘sunlight is better than regulation,’ ” says Ashley. “We would encourage the companies to make available their validation studies in the public domain so the public can see for themselves which devices are most accurate.”
At the very least, the study prompts some interesting questions about how companies collect and process the data that informs its health claims. The data collected may not be a perfect reflection of manufacturers’ intentions, but the study is a place to start the conversation.

: Bryce Durbin
Another one of the co-founders of online lending startup SoFi is leaving the company, the company has confirmed to TechCrunch. Dan Macklin, who served as VP of Community and Member Success at SoFi, announced internally that he’ll be stepping down from his position on June 6th.
“First of all, I would say it’s been a very difficult decision… To step away from SoFi — it’s a hard decision. I feel comfortable making that decision now given the shape we’re in,” Macklin told me by phone. “The company is in really great shape, so for me it feels like the right time to make the switch.”
Macklin will be staying on in an advisory role on the company’s “SoFi at Work” efforts. “We’re working with more than 700 employers to help their employees with all aspects of their financial health, but especially dealing with student debt,” he said. Other than that, we’ll be watching out to see where he lands next.
Along with SoFi CEO Mike Cagney, Macklin was one of four MBA students at Stanford’s Graduate School of Business who teamed up in 2011 to disrupt the way student loan refinancing was done at the time. Since then, the company has grown to offer a wider range of lending products, including mortgages and personal loans, and is expanding its financial services suite to include wealth management and traditional banking services.
It’s also grown pretty substantially as a business. After six years, SoFi now has more than 300,000 members and has underwritten more than $20 billion in loans, according to a person familiar with the business. It’s also raised nearly $2 billion in outside funding and has about 1,000 employees.
Most recently, Macklin was charged with managing the community and customer success at SoFi, which sees its member meetups and community events as a key differentiator against more traditional financial services businesses. Prior to that, he served as the company’s first VP of Business Development.
In a statement to TechCrunch, Cagney wrote: “I’m immensely grateful for everything Dan has contributed to SoFi since we founded the company together at Stanford, and he’ll continue to have a hand in helping us succeed in the future — including as a permanent ringer on the company soccer team.”
Of course, it’s not unusual for founders to leave after a period of several years, but Macklin’s departure leaves Cagney as the last remaining co-founder at the company. It also comes not long after SoFi lost Nino Fanlo, its longtime president and CFO. Fanlo left to take over the chief finance position at biotech firm Human Longevity, but Macklin is mostly just looking forward to some time off.
He told us that for the time being he would be taking the summer off. “It’s not coincidental that my kids are done with school a few days after I leave SoFi,” he said.
HBO confirmed today that Silicon Valley will indeed be returning for a fifth season, but one of its stars, T.J. Miller, who plays the ever moronic Erlich Bachman, will not be rejoining the cast.
The Emmy-nominated show chronicles the pivots and pitfalls of startup life in Silicon Valley with a style that’s always current and sometimes a bit too real. Real-life tech executives like Twitter’s former CEO Dick Costolo have worked with the show’s writers to refine its skewers on the tech industry.
Miller’s departure was confirmed by HBO to Variety:
“The producers of Silicon Valley and T.J. Miller have mutually agreed that T.J. will not return for season 5. In Erlich Bachman, T.J. has brought to life an unforgettable character, and while his presence on the show will be missed, we appreciate his contribution and look forward to future collaborations.”
No word on how exactly he’s going to be written out of the show, but in the world of Silicon Valley there are always ample opportunities for exits.
It was off to the races for Appian, which debuted on the Nasdaq on Thursday, soaring 25 percent on its first day on the stock market.
After pricing shares at $12, the company closed the day above $15, valuing the company at about $900 million.
The company helps its enterprise and government customers with app development. “Appian is the easiest way for companies to build their own software,” founder and CEO Matt Calkins told TechCrunch. He touted a “patent that allows us to interpret a set of objects for different devices.”
Appian has a lot of competition, including Salesforce, ServiceNow, IBM and Oracle. But they hope their approach makes it so that people can build applications with little coding required. The applications can be for PC, tablets, smartphones and wearable tech.
It was a long time coming for the Virginia-based company, which was founded in 1999, when Calkins was just 26. He said their business concept gained more transaction when apps were popularized in recent years.
Appian’s revenue is growing. They reported $132.9 million last year, compared to $111.2 million in 2015 and $89 million in 2014.
But they’re not quite profitable. The company incurred a loss of $12.5 million last year. Appian lost $7 million in the year before that and $17.1 million in 2014.
Calkins has the largest stake and Novak Biddle Venture Partners owned 21.5 percent prior to the offering, after investing just $10 million. New Enterprise Associates (NEA) owns 11.7 percent, due to a secondary transaction.
The company picked the right time to go public from a markets perspective. The S&P and Nasdaq saw record highs on Thursday. Tech IPOs have also performed well in recent months.
Binded aims to make it easier for photographers to protect their intellectual property by creating a permanent record of their copyright in a public database, namely the blockchain.
The startup was previously known as Blockai, but it’s rebranding today — the new name is meant to focus less on technology and instead emphasize the idea of creating a legally binding record. Put another way: As a company and product name, Binded probably sounds more appealing to people who aren’t bitcoin and blockchain nerds.
The startup is also announcing that it has raised an additional $950,000 from investors, including Mistletoe (led by Taizo Son, founder of gaming company GungHo and youngest brother of SoftBank’s Masayoshi Son), Japanese newspaper Asahi Shimbun, Vectr Ventures, M&Y Growth Partners, Tokyo Founders Fund and Social Starts. This brings Binded’s total funding to $1.5 million.
Binded CEO Nathan Lands suggested that bringing Japanese investors on-board is “is a step in the right direction” to become “the standard for copyright” globally.
Why is that kind of standard needed? Well, in the U.S., while your creative work is copyrighted as soon as it’s created, you need to register it with the U.S. Copyright Office if you want to file a lawsuit. Lands has pitched Binded’s platform as an intermediate step — less time-consuming and expensive than registration, but still creating an independent record that should have legal weight.
“We want to democratize copyright,” he said.
In fact, Lands pledged that the core Binded product will “always be free.” The plan is to add more services over time that the company could potentially charge for over time, like the ability to register with the Copyright Office.

: Binded
Mark Zuckerberg’s Harvard commencement speech centered around how we can improve life through big projects, equal opportunity and building both local and global community. He outlined a plan “to create a world where every single person has a sense of purpose.”
Rather than focusing on the opportunities for the Harvard students graduating in front of him, he urged the students to ignite opportunities for those less fortunate. And instead of shying away from the fact that technology is creating new challenges for the underprivileged, he said we need to address head on automation’s impact on employment.
You can watch the replay of his speech here:

		
Zuckerberg dropped out of Harvard his sophomore year in 2004 to scale up Facebook as it rapidly grew. But today he was awarded an honorary Doctor of Laws degree, apparently to the delight of his parents, and became the youngest commencement speaker in Harvard’s history.
Today’s speech gave Zuckerberg a chance to speak directly to the world about the philosophy of building community that he outlined in his 6,000 word “humanitarian manifesto” letter he published earlier this year. He describes this purpose as Facebook’s new mission after spending more than a decade trying to make the world more “open and connected.”
To grow his understanding of how to build global community, Zuckerberg’s annual personal challenge for 2017 was to visit and meet new people in every U.S. state he hadn’t already visited. Many have described the similarity of his tour to how politicians “shake hands and kiss babies” as they campaign for election, stoking speculation that Zuckerberg might run for president of the United States. Zuckerberg has repeatedly denied this is his plan.
Yet with 1.8 billion users, Facebook’s citizenship dwarfs that of the U.S., and Zuckerberg’s choices directly impact the way people socialize, organize and do business every day. Perhaps getting to know a wider swath of those users in person so he can serve them through Facebook’s product is plenty reason for the cross-country trek. The empathy he’s developed on his trip shone through in the narrative of inclusiveness wound through his speech.
Purpose
Zuckerberg began with a couple of corny jokes about how the students at “the greatest university in the world” had “accomplished something I never could.” And while he might have built Facebook in his dorm room, it was its predecessor “FaceMash” that had the biggest impact on him. That’s because the app almost got him kicked out of Harvard, and at the premature going away party his friends threw him, he met his future wife, Priscilla Chan.

Then the Facebook CEO launched into the meat of his talk about the idea of purpose — not just finding purpose for one’s self, but giving others the chance to have a true purpose. He broke down his strategy to achieve this goal into three parts.
Big projects
Putting a man on the moon seemed like an impossibly large challenge at first, but through the contributions of a legion of not only scientists, but support staff, politicians and tax payers, we accomplished that feat. It not only paid technological dividends, but created jobs, too.
Zuckerberg explained:
“Our generation will have to deal with tens of millions of jobs replaced by automation like self-driving cars and trucks. But we have the potential to do so much more together. Every generation has its defining works. More than 300,000 people worked to put a man on the moon. Millions of volunteers immunized children around the world against polio. Millions of more people built the Hoover Dam and other great projects. These projects didn’t just provide purpose for the people doing those jobs, they gave our whole country a sense of pride that we could do great things. Now it’s our turn to do great things.”
The biggest challenge with big projects is getting started, he says, but we must persevere. Climate change might seem like too large a goal to know where to begin, but Zuckerberg suggests we put people to work installing solar panels. The Chan Zuckerberg Initiative has put $3 billion toward ending disease, but he believes individuals can help by contributing their health and genome data. He even suggests us working to modernize democracy so we can vote online.
Equal opportunity
To maximize progress, everyone must have a role, not just the rich or those in the First World. And as artificial intelligence and robots improve, more and more jobs will be at risk.
Zuckerberg in his old college dorm room
Zuckerberg says, “Now it’s time for our generation to define a new social contract,” where we measure progress not by growing GDP but by ubiquitous participation with the economy.
“We can all make time to give someone a hand. Let’s give everyone the freedom to pursue their purpose — not only because it’s the right thing to do, but because when more people can turn their dreams into something great, we’re all better for it.”
Lending a hand can take many different forms. Zuckerberg says that universal basic income could unlock people’s attention to focus on solving big problems and contributing to society rather than merely trying to survive. Other suggestions he gave included affordable childcare so parents can continue working, flexible preventative healthcare so people stay healthy rather than generating more costs, prison reform to give low-level offenders a second chance and continuous education to make sure people stay employable as they age.
Building community
Finally, Zuckerberg believes that we need to foster a sense of community, both locally with our neighbors so we can build support networks for individuals, and between nations to unite the globe around giant collective problems like climate change.
“We get that our greatest opportunities are now global — we can be the generation that ends poverty, that ends disease. We get that our greatest challenges need global responses too — no country can fight climate change alone or prevent pandemics. Progress now requires coming together not just as cities or nations, but also as a global community.”
A survey found that millennials around the globe predominantly identify their generation as “citizens of the world,” but Zuckerberg stresses that change won’t be made at the U.N. Instead, Zuckerberg sees each generation expanding the circle of who we consider “one of us” by becoming secure enough to care about others.
Zuckerberg drew the battle lines, which squarely painted President Donald Trump on the other side of progress without naming him:
“We live in an unstable time. There are people left behind by globalization across the whole world. And it’s hard to care about people in other places, when we don’t first feel good about our lives here at home. There’s pressure to turn inwards. This is the struggle of our time. The forces of freedom, openness and global community, against the forces of authoritarianism, isolationism, and nationalism. Forces for the flow of knowledge, trade and immigration, against those that would slow them down.”
Zuckerberg gets teary-eyed while concluding his speech
The gravity of this fight seemed to wash over Zuckerberg near the end of the talk. The infamously stoic Zuckerberg began to tear up, describing how a high school student he mentored feared he couldn’t go to college because he’s an undocumented immigrant.
Perhaps the most important thing that came out of the speech was Zuckerberg’s maturing perspective of how all this progress will be made. While his manifesto repeatedly offered deeper connection through Facebook as the answer, Zuckerberg never mentioned specific parts of the app he built in today’s speech. Maybe he’s realized that a product’s impact is defined by the virtues of those who use it. There’s plenty to fix within Facebook. But each of us must decide how wide we care to spread our circle of inclusion and opportunity.
Target has reportedly rolled $75 million into Casper, the direct-to-consumer mattress startup you may have heard about in all those podcasts. The funding is a good chunk of what should end up being a more than $100 million round, according to a source at Recode, which first reported the news.
Target has confirmed it gave a bunch of money to Casper but would not confirm the amount (sigh). We’ve reached out to Target for more and will update if and when we hear back. Update: Nope, Target does not want to comment.
The investment allegedly happened after acquisition talks fell through. Target had offered to buy Casper for $1 billion earlier this year, but apparently Casper wasn’t into the terms of the deal. The fast-growing mattress startup is an under-the-radar unicorn already, according to a TechCrunch source close to the matter, and a recent IOData report obtained by TechCrunch pegs the company at 39 percent of all mattress-in-a-box sales from 2014-2017.
Now Target will be the lead investor instead. Existing Casper investors Lerer Hippeau Ventures, IVP and NEA are also adding in some cash for this round.
The financing may be a good option for the retail giant as brick-and-mortar stores have struggled against online competition. Target basically confirmed that in a statement (if you can get past the PR jargon), saying it would benefit by working with Casper’s already established online brand:
“The strategic partnership offers Casper access to an established retail brand and gives Target an opportunity to work with a future-focused digital brand that is exploring an area that is meaningful for our guests — sleep and wellness. We’re looking forward to exploring the future together.”
Target is also hoping to pull in younger, digital-savvy customers by partnering with brands like Casper, and recently Bevel and the celebrity style blog WhoWhatWear, to hook in a new generation of online shoppers.
For Casper, the funding gives it some runway to continue dominating the field in an already crowded (but apparently quite lucrative) online mattress market as it competes against startups like Tuft & Needle and Purple, which both own their own manufacturing facilities and operate in much less expensive areas to keep operating costs low.
Ahead of Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg’s commencement speech at Harvard today, the school’s much-lauded student newspaper had some… interesting headlines to share.
“BREAKING: Mork Zinkletink Zonks all over the Internet!”
Screenshot via Archive.is
The bogus headlines, first spotted by Business Insider, came from an unauthorized user according to a statement given to TechCrunch by Crimson President Derek Cho.
Earlier today, The Harvard Crimson’s website was altered by an unauthorized user. We are currently working to repair the breach. We regret any inconvenience to our readers and look forward to the rest of Commencement.
It’s all a bit fitting, given Zuckerberg’s own troubled past with The Crimson.
Screenshot via Archive.is
Back in 2004, while Zuckerberg was a student, he allegedly hacked into the email accounts of two editors of The Crimson to see a story ahead of press time written about claims of intellectual property theft made against his new website TheFacebook. He reportedly used failed login attempts from the editors on TheFacebook to guess their passwords and jump into their accounts.
The Crimson has currently returned to normal commencement fare, though Zuckerberg’s face will likely be returning to the site as he delivers his speech to the graduating class later today.

: Getty Images/Win McNamee/Getty Images
While some in Silicon Valley indulge in free meals, laundry service and egg freezing, an estimated 50 percent of the workforce won’t even have basic benefits by 2020 — and Virginia Senator Mark Warner wants to do something about that.
While legislators in Washington state have proposed a bill requiring a benefits program for gig workers, Warner has just proposed the first-ever piece of national legislation aimed at helping on-demand and other non-traditional workers without traditional benefits, like paid sick days or a retirement plan, have some sort of a safety net. The bill asks the federal government to set aside $20 million in funding for organizations to use to look at the types of benefits programs individual workers could take with them from job to job.
Set aside the current talk up on the Hill of taking away healthcare from millions of people for now. Thanks to mobile technology, 1099 workers have become a large (and growing) piece of the economy, set to reach half of everyone in our nation in just a few years — a staggering number to go without any sort of a plan for anything. However, these portable benefits plans would give the nice lady who just brought you a burrito for lunch, the kid who cleaned your house or the guy who dropped you off at work this morning options in helping them continue paying bills and take care of themselves should something happen.
“[Portable benefits is] that emergency fund,” Warner told BuzzFeed, which first reported news of the bill. “It might be a fund to take care of a disability if you get hurt. It might work with some existing retirement programs. Part of it would be, depending on what happens with Obamacare, an ability to help deal with health care expenses. I think there will be a variety of models.”
The funding wouldn’t be enough to cover everyone, of course, but if it gets the green light a draft of the bill indicates it would earmark $5 million toward grants doled out by Labor Secretary Alexander Acosta for organizations already looking into portable benefits and $15 million for new programs.
The bill already seems to have broad support, including from the former Labor Secretary Robert Reich, as well as such organizations as the Independent Drivers Guild (IDG), which represents about 50,000 ride-hailing drivers for startups like Uber and Lyft. “Gig economy workers and their families need benefits and protections just like traditional employees. Unions and government officials must not let these workers fall through the cracks,” an IDG spokesperson told TechCrunch.
Uber and other startups using the on-demand working class for labor also seem to support the idea of providing gig workers with some sort of a safety net, at least. Uber, for instance, just raised its rates in eight states by five cents per mile to cover the cost of injury insurance for its drivers, though that could be more to cover itself from lawsuits. We’ve reached out to hear how Uber, Handy and others feel about the newly proposed nationwide portable benefits legislation as well.
Many of these same startups have tried in the past to separate gig workers into a new class separate from 1099 workers who might also employ others, but that, so far, hasn’t gone anywhere. Senator Warner has also been thinking of the gig worker and the major shifts we’ve seen in employment over the last few years, thanks to technological advances. His bill doesn’t classify them as something new, but would at least be the first step into research on how to go about providing for these working Americans in what is already an enormous shift in the way many of them now make a paycheck.
Customer experience chatbot developer Rulai has launched a new “low-code” chatbot development tool and raised $6.5 million to roll it out.
The development team at Rulai, with offices in Beijing and Campbell, Calif., is helmed by the renowned University of California, Santa Cruz, computer science professor Yi Zhang.
Professor Zhang, the company’s chief technologist, and her team are launching a product that customer service managers can use to develop chatbots that will perform tasks based on customer conversations, and that can be created without a single line of code.
It’s an example of how software developers and artificial intelligence systems are writing themselves out of the application development process.
Specifically, the Rulai tool was designed for customer service managers. Using Rulai’s drop-down toolkit, managers can write scripts and create action items to customize chatbots that will perform functions based on their communications with customers.
In the demo I saw, Professor Zhang created a chatbot that could automatically respond to a customer and cancel and rebook their flights through a series of drop-down menus and an integration with a company’s back end.

The chatbots rely on natural language processing technology developed by Rulai, and the customization toolkit the company has built will let managers with no coding experience create their own scripts. Based on user’s responses, the bots will respond with actions that are also created by the managers.
Rulai is throwing its bot toolkit out into an incredibly crowded market. Everyone from big names like Facebook and Microsoft to startups like BotCube, Azumo, Api.ai, Chatfuel, blahblahbot, pandorabot and RoBotOverlord (I made the last three up, but you get the idea) are working on these things.
For Rulai, another point of differentiation it’s pitching is the strength of its AI technology itself, according to Zhang.
The company’s bot can escalate tasks to a human customer support system when needed; perform several rounds of communication with a customer and remember the context of the conversation; it’s based on mixed initiatives and mixed tasks technology, which means both the bot and the human can lead a chat; and it adaptively changes its approach based on real-time feedback.
Whether or not the company’s chatbot development toolkit is the future, Rulai has lined up some serious backers to finance its growth.
To roll out this new product, Rulai has raised $6.5 million in new financing from a slew of Sino-U.S. investment firms led by GSR Ventures, a huge player in the Chinese venture capital industry, and an established presence in the U.S.
With over $1.5 billion under management in U.S. and Yuan-denominated funds, GSR has backed some of China’s biggest new startups. Companies in the fund’s portfolio include DiDi Chuxing, Qunar, ele.me, Xiaohongshu, Inke, Shanghai DZH and ofo.
Additional investors in the round included the former venture arm of FIL, formerly known as Fidelity Growth Partners and now called Eight Roads Ventures China and Zhongwei Capital.

: Bryce Durbin
College dropout-turned-Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg finally got his degree today, and now he’s about to give Harvard’s 366th commencement speech.
You can watch him speak here now, where we’ll embed the Facebook Live broadcast on TechCrunch, and provide frequent updates on any news or insights he mentions.
For a deeper look at the substance of his talk, read our follow-up: “Zuckerberg tells Harvard we need a new social contract of equal opportunity” 
“I’ll share what I’ve learned about our generation and the world we’re all building together” Zuckerberg writes. “This is personally important to me and I’ve been writing it for a while.”

Live Updates From Zuckerberg’s Speech
Zuckerberg began his speech by calling Harvard “The greatest university in the world”, and cracking a couple corny jokes like telling students “You accomplished something I never could.”
He described how he met Priscilla Chan at the going away party friends through Zuckerberg when the university threatened to kick him out for creating Facebook-predecessor FaceMash. In a touching moment, he says because it led him to meet his future wife, FaceMash is actually the most important thing he built at Harvard.
Then Zuckerberg got into the focus of his speech: Purpose. He described how through his travels around the country, people have told him they’re trying to fill a void in their lives as jobs and community become less important in modern society. And that Zuckerberg foreshadowed how these problems could worsen as technology replaces jobs.
His first strategy for the world to find purpose is for people to make the hard choice to get started on big projects. For example, it might be tough to start fighting climate change, but we can put people to work installing solar panels, or we can start ending disease by getting people to contribute their health data and genomes.
His second strategy revolves around equal opportunity. He believes “it’s time for our generation to define a new social contract” where we measure progress by everyone having a role and a purpose. Zuckerberg suggested universal basic income, affordable childcare, flexible healthcare, prison reform, and continuous education as the ways to provide this equal opportunity.
Finally, he believes that we need to build community, both locally with our neighbors, and between nations to unite the globe.
To learn how Zuckerberg plans to fix the world’s problems without just saying Facebook is the solution, read our follow-up: “Zuckerberg tells Harvard we need a new social contract of equal opportunity“.

: David L. Ryan/The Boston Globe via Getty Images
Nearly two decades after the release of the original Pokémon Red and Blue in the U.S., the Pokémon company has come out with another true masterpiece.
It’s called Magikarp Jump, which came out for iOS and Android earlier today. It’s about training Magikarp, the most beloved Pokémon in the universe, to jump as hard as it can and squash the hopes and dreams of its opponents. But Magikarp Jump can be a complicated beast to master, so here are some tips to get started:

Choose your pole carefully and be patient when fishing
Waiting for the best Magikarp is the first step to becoming a true Magikarp master.
Name it something original
Your Magikarp will eventually have a mid-life existential crisis. Make sure to nurture its individuality if you want to be a true Magikarp master.
Accept nuggets from strangers
Your Magikarp needs those nuggets and it can’t Tweet. Give your Magikarp the gift of nuggets if you want to be a true Magikarp master.

Skip the commentary
Your Magikarp doesn’t want to listen to the same announcer over and over, it wants to be a winner. Take your Magikarp straight to the ring if you want to be a true Magikarp master.

Demand a play review
There’s no harm in asking officials to review the jump. You’ll need to learn the best strategies as a coach if you want to be a true Magikarp master.
Spend your coins on upgrades and stuff
You aren’t going to collect interest on those coins. You’ll need to invest in your Magikarp’s future if you want to be a true Magikarp master.
Ignore the health risks of drinking soda
The internet wants to make you think that soda is bad. The truth is, your Magikarp loves soda, and you should feed it some if you want to be a true Magikarp master.

Be sure to give your Magikarp lots of praise
It won’t always max out that jump counter, but if you want to be a Magikarp master you’ll have to treat it with respect.
Always accept your achievement rewards
You’ll want to rake in that sweet, sweet cash after all if you want to be a Magikarp master.
Be sure to have your phone out when updating your computer
This is a good opportunity to train your Magikarp if you hope to be a Magikarp master.

Always grab the thing
No one wants a quitter; Magikarp masters take risks. Throw caution to the wind if you hope to be a Magikarp master.
Teach your Magikarp to respect its elders
You wouldn’t be here if it weren’t for the Magikarp you’ve raised over the years. You must ensure that knowledge is passed to future generations if you want to be a true Magikarp master.

Buy lots of friends
Your Magikarp might get lonely. Buy it some friends with cash like any good coach will do if you want to be a true Magikarp master.

Check in with other trainers
You’ll want to know how your Magikarp is stacking up against other Magikarps. Learn from your peers if you want to be a true Magikarp master.

Let it do its thing
If your Magikarp wants some berries, let it have some berries. You need to trust its judgment if you want to be a true Magikarp master.

Don’t have any regrets
Fish die all the time. You’ll have to be ready to move on if you want to be a true Magikarp master.
Good luck, trainer!
Magistrate Judge Jacqueline Scott Corley ordered Thursday that Uber needs to hand over to Waymo, by the end of the day, the full, unredacted term sheet between Uber and Otto. Corley ultimately decided there was no basis for Uber to redact the information because there was no privileged information shared with Otto prior to the acquisition.
“I don’t see any basis whatsoever for those redactions to be made and for that information to be withheld from Waymo,” Corley said.
Since Google’s Waymo self-driving car unit first sued Uber in February, Uber has also refused to turn over the due diligence report it conducted ahead of the Otto acquisition, arguing that it can’t be disclosed because it involves confidential information between attorneys and clients.
As the case approaches trial, Waymo has argued that there is likely information inside the due diligence report that could answer a lot of the questions Anthony Levandowski — the engineer accused of stealing self-driving car trade secrets from Google and using them at Uber — has refused to answer as a result of him exercising his Fifth Amendment rights. Waymo is asking to see this due diligence report, which includes an interview with Levandowski. But Uber is currently arguing that this is protected by attorney-client privilege.
Update 12:15pm PT: Waymo has argued that the due diligence report, which Waymo has not seen, probably shows that Uber knew about the theft. If the due diligence report does indeed mention the theft of the 14,000 documents in question, that would mean Uber had a duty to return them, Waymo argues. But Uber argues that this is Waymo’s burden to prove, and that Waymo would need to prove that Uber was engaged in planning a criminal scheme.
On Wednesday, Judge William Alsup issued a notice that essentially said that the privilege logs Levandowski provided to the court were garbage and did not provide any useful information.
“To give just one example, entire pages of the spreadsheet in response to RFP No. 3 consisted of line items that identified ‘document type’ as ‘loose e-mail attachment’ and were otherwise blank,” Alsup wrote. “Similarly, dozens of pages of the spreadsheet in response to RFP No. 1 appeared dedicated to email attachments identified only by email account, time stamp, and otherwise wholly non-descriptive information. It would be wrong to suggest that any of those ‘privilege log’ entries could justify any claim of privilege.”
By tomorrow, Levandowski must provide further disclosures because Alsup did not find the privilege logs he previously submitted were sufficient.
Quick context: On April 12, Alsup ordered Levandowski to provide logs justifying his assertion of the Fifth Amendment, saying that it should not be a long document and that he provide Waymo “enough of the argument so that they can respond.”
Last week, Uber notified Levandowski that he either needs to deny that he downloaded and took any documents from Google, or to hand over the documents to Google. Otherwise, he would be at risk of getting fired from Uber. Uber has already removed Levandowski from working on any projects related to LiDAR technology.
Levandowski’s lawyers argued that the court’s order to Uber, as well as Uber’s threat to Levandowski, would violate his constitutional right to avoid self-incrimination.
If you want more background around how the hell this whole thing started, be sure to check out TC’s ongoing coverage of the case here. I’ll be here all day, so be on the lookout for more updates.

: John Sommers II/Transport Tropics/modified by Bryce Durbin/Flickr UNDER A CC BY 2.0 LICENSE
Instagram’s Direct feature just got more generally useful as a messaging option, with support added for external web links, and the ability to send photos and video in their original portrait or landscape aspect ratios without cropping. The first is really far more important than the second, mainly because it means users have less reason to go seeking other messaging options outside of Instagram.
The links feature also includes inline previews for websites you paste the URL for, and the new photo and video treatment is much more in keeping with how people actually capture and view media on mobile these days. The updates are rolling out now to iOS users, and will arrive on Android soon. Links are supported on both platforms as of version 10.22.
Instagram Direct is a popular feature among the social network’s user base – there are 375 million monthly active users on Direct alone as of last count, a fresh number shared publicly in April. It’s a far cry from Facebook Messenger’s 1.2 billion monthly actives, but that’s still one of the biggest messaging apps in the world, and a product worth iterating on in order to help it capture even more market share.
Ezra Galston
Contributor



Ezra Galston is a venture capitalist with Chicago Ventures. 

			More posts by this contributor:			
The Middleman Strikes Back
The Trillion-Dollar Market To Remake Business Applications



Managed marketplaces (also known as end-to-end or full-stack marketplaces) have been one of the hottest categories of venture investment over the past several years. Recent examples of high-flying managed marketplaces include The RealReal, Opendoor, Beepi, Luxe and thredUP, which have collectively raised nearly a billion dollars. They garner a lot of press because the consumer experiences are often radically different than what’s previously been available in the market. 
But there is confusion over what a true “managed” marketplace is. It’s fairly easy to spot a true managed marketplace if you know what you’re looking for. Managed marketplaces typically adhere to the following characteristics:

A value-added intermediary (the “management” or “service”) that provides a superior experience versus more traditional peer-to-peer marketplaces, brick and mortar or even a legacy service provider.
An introduction of additional risk into the business model; examples might include pre-purchasing and holding inventory or via investing in services related to the buyer/seller that are an incremental, variable cost before any profits have been realized (money goes out before it comes in).
A take-rate (gross margin) that is a significant premium versus other buy/sell options in the market in order to offset the premium service level or risk transfer that has occurred.


It’s important to note that many of today’s ubiquitous marketplace companies such as Uber, Airbnb, Grubhub and others are “lightly” managed, by which I mean they invest resources in quality assurance, background checks and verifying reviews. But these services are typically a de minimis expense on the company’s overall operating cost structure — often even considered as part of the customer (or merchant) acquisition cost — and therefore do not classify as a fully managed service. 
For Airbnb, these “light” costs might include the costs related to verifying a user’s home address, or the customer service costs of resolving disputes. For Grubhub, the light management might include the costs related to updating menus, but they are not fully managed in that they are not taking ownership of the food or food prep themselves (although Grubhub has begun rolling out delivery, which would qualify as a managed service). This infographic shows the primary marketplace categorizations:

In order to build a successful, sustainable managed marketplace, the take-rate margins must be high enough to support that value-added intermediary and the subsequent amount of services and risk the marketplace is providing. What makes these marketplaces so powerful is that they can drop a comparable amount of contribution margin to the bottom line while investing the higher take-rate revenues into customer experience, reducing friction and product improvements.
Additionally, if, over time, these marketplaces can develop technology that significantly reduces or eliminates the costs of providing these value-added managed services, they can continue to justify higher take-rates and build high-margin businesses that are worth a premium to their traditional service provider comparables or peer-to-peer businesses.
As a primer, here’s a quick chart of take-rates in the re-commerce industry amongst both managed marketplaces and traditional marketplaces. Can you guess which ones are actively managed?
Value innovation and risk
Now that we’ve identified that managed marketplaces are effectively business model innovations, it’s useful to go through a few on a case by case basis to identify each of these innovations and be able to properly identify managed marketplaces in the future.
Opendoor is a managed marketplace in the real estate industry that is an on-demand tool for selling your home. They utilize numerous data sources to offer real-time bids on a home, typically without ever stepping foot in it. Basically: Click a mouse, sell a house. They charge the typical 6 percent brokerage commission plus a risk-adjusted service fee (about 2-3 percent extra, on average, up to 6 percent).
Value-Add Innovation: A consumer no longer has to wait to sell their home. They don’t even so much as have to engage a real estate brokerage. Opendoor reduces the friction of selling a house from possibly months (and multiple showings) down to minutes. The company will also perform all maintenance/changes demanded by a licensed inspector. 
Risk Innovation: Unlike brokerages such as RE/MAX or Century 21, which take zero capital risk on a transaction but collect 3 percent from each of the buy/sell sides of a transaction, Opendoor is buying inventory and holding it on their books. The effect of this is that they can offer an extraordinarily differentiated experience to their home sellers, who traditionally rely on peer-to-peer markets (typical MLS listings, with a realtor advising).
Take-Rate: To justify this level of risk (holding inventory) and service (managing maintenance), Opendoor charges a take-rate on average 50 percent higher than in a traditional real estate transaction. While a 50 percent premium may seem marginal given the delta in other categories, the large transaction sizes in real estate mean that the take-rate premium on a $500,000 house is $15,000 of incremental gross margin. That is a significant amount of money to manage maintenance and some risk.
Case in point is the below estimation of Opendoor’s revenue and cost structure on an average $220,000 home (their sweet spot) with a 9 percent brokerage fee, a 50 percent premium to market rates:
Source: Inside Opendoor: What 2 Years of Transactions Tell Us
For Opendoor, when all is said and done, their average net profit, $8,320, or 3.8 percent of the home’s original selling price, is still greater than the 3 percent an agent at a traditional brokerage earns. And, they are able to provide a substantially differentiated experience. It’s a powerful model. 
TheRealReal is a managed marketplace in the luxury consignment space focused on clothing, jewelry, handbags, even art. The experience differs from eBay, for example, in that sellers need to provide zero effort other than sending their goods to a TRR warehouse (no photography, no descriptions, no customer interaction) and buyers take comfort in TheRealReal’s quality and authentication services, which they fully guarantee.
Value-Add Innovation: Rather than having to post online listings and photographs of items, pay for a third-party authentication or even deal with shipping, TheRealReal simply collects an item from a consignor and sends them a check once it sells. For sellers, it’s a true “set it and forget it” experience and is multiples more convenient than dealing with online auctions (or even price comparing between local thrift shops).
Risk Innovation: In order to provide a frictionless experience for the seller and an aesthetic, trusted experience for the buyer, TheRealReal is forced to frontload all those costs into their own overhead. They expense per-item charges for photography, copy writing and logistics before an item sells. If the item fails to sell, TheRealReal is forced to eat those overhead costs. Therefore, if they inaccurately forecast demand for certain items, they could end up burning more money than they’re able to recoup on sales.
Take-Rate: In order to justify its cost structure, TheRealReal (and other comparable marketplaces) command take-rates of 30 percent, effectively triple what non-managed, peer-to-peer marketplaces charge as a commission to sellers.
Luxe is a managed marketplace for drivers that reduces all friction associated with parking: finding a lot, searching for a spot, returning to the lot, paying the cashier and waiting to exit. Operating as an effective always-on, mobile valet service, drivers are met at their destination by a Luxe agent who takes the keys and parks a driver’s car. Upon leaving, the driver requests their car in-app and are met by a Luxe agent who delivers their car at their exit point.
Value-Add Innovation: Luxe fundamentally reimagines parking by providing any driver with an on-demand valet who will meet them across a large radius of major cities. Unlike traditional parking or even mobile parking marketplaces such as SpotHero* (which require a driver to park their own cars), Luxe reimagines driving to be destination-focused: drive to your ultimate end-point, not a parking lot. In theory, its product could save drivers time and enable them to avoid inclement weather.
Risk Innovation: In order to provide uninterrupted, on-demand service, Luxe is forced to employ numerous valets across each geography in which it operates. Irrespective of what these valets are actually paid, it is a considerable human capital cost that Luxe is forced to bear ahead of any realized demand. This is in contradistinction to a sharing economy marketplace model such as Airbnb or Uber who are not burdened with human capital costs, but rather pay transactional commissions on any given home-owner or driver.
Take-Rate: In order to counter-act the considerable human capital expense of staffing valets across a city, Luxe should be forced to charge a material premium compared to average hourly parking rates in a particular city. It is therefore quite surprising that they advertise an average of $5/hour for their service, especially when the average hourly rate in NYC, for instance, is $11-15/hour. Several months ago, reports from San Francisco suggested that prior rates of $5/hour have now increased to $15/hour or a $45 daily maximum and, as of this month, they have suspended the valet service. Given the considerable variance in parking costs by neighborhood, it is hard to assess their exact take-rate premium, but I’d estimate it would have had to have been about 200 percent of traditional parking take-rates to be profitable.
Each of these companies is built on the vision that technology will ultimately be able to deliver increased automation and better margins. For example, that one day TheRealReal’s item authentication will be entirely algorithmic or that Luxe will be able to predict the real-time flow of drivers, thereby reducing its human capital costs. Because these representative companies are all still relatively young startups, those tech-driven narratives have mostly only begun to play out. 
Beepi versus Carmax
Beepi, a managed marketplace for used cars, recently closed its doors after burning through nearly $300 million in the span of two years. Unlike eBay Motors, which is a peer-to-peer experience, offering no concierge services (although it does offer some self-service options such as free Carfax reports), Beepi was a full-service platform promising rigorous inspections on cars, a 10-day no-questions return policy for a purchased car and, for sellers, a promise that if one’s car didn’t sell in 30 days, Beepi would buy it outright for the appraised value.
The seller fees for this risk-free service? Approximately 9 percent with Beepi… versus a $125 fee for eBay motors, or about 1.25 percent on a $10,000 car, nearly an 800 percent differential.
So with a premium 9 percent take-rate, how did Beepi fail?
The best insight into their failure may come from a similar model with considerable success. It turns out that the nation’s largest retailer of used cars is also arguably one of the most recognized managed marketplaces in the world: Carmax. Give Carmax 30 minutes to inspect your car and they will buy it, even if you’re not purchasing one of theirs, with a “no-haggle,” take it or leave it offer. Thirty minutes is pretty efficient, pretty darn close to on demand.
The extraordinary thing about Carmax is that the Company’s gross profit per used car sold basically doesn’t change even when the year’s average price per car sold moves up or down by 5 percent in any given year. Which means that Carmax is actually less focused on their take-rate per car, but instead focused on their profit per car; their commission is a function of the profit they expect to earn. 
Rationally, this makes sense as well — consumers value convenience but have a cognitive dollar limit they are willing to trade for that convenience. By inverting their take-rate to be a function of their profit expectations, Carmax is able to offer more for higher-end cars where a 10 percent difference between the car’s BlueBook value and Carmax’s offer would likely be too extreme for a customer to accept. For high-priced assets, a flat tax is fundamentally unlikely to work.
Used cars are curious assets in that they depreciate so quickly that even 60 days can have a demonstrable impact on value. This is where Carmax excels. In their most recent annual reporting, Carmax notes having sold more than 600,000 cars in the prior year with (then) present inventories at about 55,000. That’s a retail turn of about 11, meaning that a car moves off Carmax’s lot every 35 days or so, allowing them to more accurately price cars and make higher offers, being less exposed to the less predictable volatility of depreciation. 
In a post-mortem on Beepi, Carlypso founder Chris Coleman suggests that in addition to the noted reasons (depreciation effects, and cognitive pricing differential), the approach was inherently flawed from a customer acquisition perspective. Specifically, that while there are customers looking to simply sell their car for cash, most car owners are looking to trade-in a car, because they still need a car and there are tax benefits to doing so; a platform that has to pay marketing costs for both the buyer and seller in all transactions is at a significant disadvantage.
At the end of the day, a managed marketplace model for used cars does work. Carmax is only one of thousands of proof points: tens of thousands of dealerships across the country hold inventory, inspect cars and reap a profit. Beepi’s failings appear to be the result of poor execution, mispricings and maybe even some bad luck around a financing that fell through. 
Automation and Shutterstock
Because managed marketplaces involve a heavy “service” component to improve the overall experience, one of the expectations of the sector is that as artificial intelligence and automation continue to evolve, the human capital cost of providing the service will decrease if software can assume more of those responsibilities.
But an area of struggle with managed marketplaces is that very few digital managed marketplaces are actually public companies, reducing the visibility into their overall economics and processes — and making it hard to test the assumption that service costs should come down over time. Luckily, there’s at least one: Shutterstock (NYSE: SSTK), a marketplace for photographers to sell their images, bills itself as a “trusted, actively managed marketplace,” in that “each image is individually examined by [their] team of trained reviewers.” 
On the spectrum of managed marketplaces, Shutterstock is undoubtedly on the lighter end — with the financial risk from its active management being only the human capital cost of its QA reviewers. Nevertheless, it would seem like this hypothesis is an ideal one to test on a company such as Shutterstock, which isn’t dependent on an unproven technology such as self-driving cars to reduce their cost of providing a service, but could presumably leverage proven, inexpensive image recognition technologies to do much of the quality assurance, copyright detection and tagging that the human reviewers do. 
Yet, that doesn’t appear to be borne out by Shutterstock’s financials. To test the automation hypothesis, I decided to look at the company’s revenue versus the cost to generate that revenue. Shutterstock defines their costs of revenue as “royalties paid to contributors, credit card processing fees, content review costs, customer service expenses, infrastructure and hosting costs…and associated employee compensation.” I would assume that credit card processing fees as a percentage of revenue are relatively flat (if not slightly reduced year over year) and that cloud-hosting fees also scale mostly proportionately to demand (revenue). I’ve defined “True COGS” below as the aforementioned expenses to providing their service, minus the contributor royalties:
Surprisingly, rather than decreasing over time, these True COG costs appear to be increasing. Meaning that the same picture that used to take 10.5 percent of revenues to process now costs nearly 15 percent.
There are a number of possible explanations here. It’s certainly possible that these increased costs are because the company is investing heavily into automation, the effects of which simply haven’t been borne out yet while they streamline their QA process. It’s also possible that the number of photos the company maintains makes it more expensive to process each incremental picture — for any variety of reasons.
The learning from this Shutterstock case study, a company which is now 14 years old, is that it’s improper to simply assume that the substantial service-related costs that managed marketplaces incur in their early stages will decrease with “scale,” either through execution or software automation. As with any company, there is always room for improvement, but the above analysis of Shutterstock would imply that it’s nowhere near as easy as flipping a switch.
Takeaways
Managed marketplaces are a quintessential venture investment, allowing entrepreneurs to recast consumer experiences while leveraging venture capital subsidies to hold much of the risk inherent in these managed models. 
From a unit economic perspective, the potential automation of much of the service labor that goes into these platforms could be significant. Investors and operators need to remain sensitive that it is ultimately the technology, not heavy services, that will long-term cultivate highly desired business models and margins. But, that future automation could also lower the barriers and defensibility of these companies, allowing peer-to-peer players to launch a comparable offering with similar software. 
In my mind, the sustaining managed marketplaces will not only re-imagine the experience they’re approaching, but be focused from the outset on building a data moat around their product, thereby ensuring that they remain the platform of choice, even if software innovation begins to level the overall playing field.  
Special thanks to Josh Breinlinger and Rebecca Kaden for their feedback on this article.
*Chicago Ventures is an investor in SpotHero.

: Skopein/Getty Images
There are only a few virtual reality titles that I’ve played where I need a bit of a “come down” period to regroup my thoughts and start thinking like a real human again.
SUPERHOT VR is one of those titles.
Today, the Rift-exclusive is finally coming to the HTC Vive natively via the Steam store, nearly six months after its launch on the Oculus Store. It’s been heralded by many as one of the best virtual reality titles out there, and I can say from first-hand experience that it’s my most-played game by far across all VR systems.
The entire game is a bit like a series of puzzles where you’re dropped in a room with a couple of weapons around you and a bunch of geometric assassins headed to kill you. Time only progresses as you physically move your body, so you have to decide the efficiency and order of your actions in order to take out the baddies before they take you out.

Things are simple enough when they’re holding bats or knives, but when three of them are shooting shotguns at you and you have to navigate some complex “bullet-time” maneuvers, it won’t be long before you’re performing some advanced yoga moves to avoid getting hit.
The title, which was partially funded by Oculus, is actually a port from a PC game, which feels bizarre, given how perfect the mechanics are for VR.
In March, the game was updated with the “Forever” update, which brought a variety of new modes that significantly extended replayability, letting you fight an endless barrage of enemies or fine-tune options so that you could play headshots-only or race through levels to beat personal best times.
Though the Vive has gotten a lot of exciting developer attention, Oculus has been digging deep into Facebook war chests to dole out hundreds of millions to content creators who are willing to launch exclusively on the Rift and Gear VR platforms. SUPERHOT VR and Robo Recall have been a couple of the most platform-defining games made, and they’ve launched as Oculus exclusives. This has led to some Vive owners downloading a piece of software called “Revive,” which allows them to purchase games on the Oculus store and play them on their HTC headsets.
With today’s update, the game at last comes natively to the Vive, allowing Steam users a simpler and legit route to get playing. The game is generally $24.99, but is $5 cheaper this week.
It’s a beautiful, badass title, and if you own a Rift or Vive and have never tried it, do yourself a favor and download it.
Robots may have the upper hand on math and science, and pretty much everything else we learn using computers, but when it comes to athletics, no one can kick around a ball quite like a human can.
In this installment of Judah vs. the Machines, actor Judah Friedlander heads to the University of Miami to see how the school’s RoboCanes robotic soccer team fares in a challenge against his own soccer abilities.
Friedlander met with Dr. Ubbo Visser, who works as a software developer on the RoboCanes project. In Visser’s mind, the soccer team project is focused on the broader functions of the limits in how robots think and how bipedal humanoids are able to move and work together.
“We’re playing soccer to identify how much new technology we need to create and we need to develop in order to have a fully autonomous team of humanoid robots and humanoid embodiments,” Visser told Friedlander.
It’s clear that these robots aren’t quite Boston Dynamics-level mobile, and it would probably take about 10,000 of these to even have a dream of taking out Sarah Connor. This being the case, Judah doesn’t actually suit up to play against the pint-sized, electro-competitors. Instead he grabs a gamepad and controls one of the robotic footballers against three AI-controlled opponents.
Check out the video above to see how Friedlander handles the responsibility of taking on robots as humanity’s all-star representative.
See all eight episodes of Judah vs. the Machines here.
In an all-too-familiar Airbnb fashion, the home-sharing company has released a report touting how great it is. Airbnb says it helped travelers collectively save $12 million on Memorial Day weekend last year by offering them accommodations in homes versus hotels. This is based on Airbnb’s analysis of hotel prices versus Airbnb prices last Memorial Day weekend in 14 cities and seven common tourist destinations.
In San Francisco, for example, the average hotel room rate last Memorial Day weekend was $199, compared to an average room rate of $145 on Airbnb. On an individual basis, that was about $54 in savings per room. You can take a look at how Airbnb did its calculations below.

Clearly, this is a marketing scheme to convince people to book their accommodations via Airbnb versus hotels this Memorial Day weekend.
“For too long, hotels have had nearly unchecked power to raise rates and price gouge consumers at will,” the report states. “While more research into this matter is necessary, it is clear that Airbnb has given consumers more affordable accommodation options and left hotel industry executives deeply concerned about their ability to price gouge consumers in the years ahead.”

: Photographer: Michael Nagle/Bloomberg via Getty Images/Getty Images
Google’s News Lab launched a new tool for making basic data GIFs today. While the Data GIF Maker is mostly geared toward journalists, anybody can use it to make some halfway interesting visuals based on all kinds of data.
But don’t get too excited yet. Not only does it take a bit of manual work to make these GIFs, the tool isn’t especially flexible either. This isn’t some GIF-centric version of the Google Data Studio. Instead, you can use it only to compare stats about two different topics over time (Trump/Hillary, iPhone/Android, etc.). It’s not going to instantly turn your next TED talk into a classic, either.

“We typically use the tool to represent competing search interest, but it can show whatever you want it to—polling numbers, sales figures, movie ratings, etc.,” the team behind this new tool explains in today’s announcement.
To get started, you pick your two topics, enter your data in a comma-separated list, write a few words about what your readers are looking at and then let the tool do its work in creating a GIF for you (which can actually take a while). And that’s it. Now go forth and make some data GIFs.
Amazon has officially begun operating its AmazonFresh Pickup locations in Seattle, letting customers order groceries ahead of time and then quickly grab them on their way home. The service requires as little as 15 minutes advance notice, without any minimum purchase requirements, and it’s a free service for any Amazon Prime members.
Amazon first revealed Pickup back in March, but it’s officially opening shop for general use as of today. The pilot is limited to just one market – Amazon’s home turf – to begin with, but if it works it’s likely to make its way to other cities, since Amazon has been chasing the fresh grocery carrot for many years now in hopes of finding a way to make it profitable at scale.
Lyft is getting into the higher-end ride hailing game with Lyft Lux and Lyft Lux SUV. These are black car offerings similar to the service that rival Uber originally launched with, and they’ll be available beginning in 20 markets with a gradual rollout starting now in five initial markets and continuing through mid-June.
Lux will roll out first in five U.S. cities where it makes the most sense to expect a demand for premium ride options, including Chicago, LA, NYC, SF and San Jose. On the driver side, the process of getting approved to drive Lux is obviously a bit more complex than the standard procedure for signing up to drive Lyft, and includes both a geographic requirement (you have to drive in a city where it’s currently offered), and a higher, more specific standard for vehicles.
Eligible cars must be at least a 2011 model year or above, have an actual black exterior paint job (in top condition), have leather or simulated leather seating, and be able to seat at least 6 riders comfortably if you want to drive the Lux SUV option, too. There’s also a specific list of car models and makes that you can use, which is available in full here.
Driving for Lux and Lux SUV will result in higher fares, of course, and will also cost more for users. It’s a good option for Lyft to make available if it wants to win over some of Uber’s more top-end customers, who are looking for a fancier ride during business travel or while hosting clients, for example.
Many looking at the future of ride hailing see the market continuing to evolve and serve a variety of different tiers – Tesla competitor Lucid Motors is even building a luxury EV sedan specifically tailored to ride-sharing and ride hailing usage. Differentiated service offerings like Lux will help Lyft better address this market maturation, should it continue to evolve along the lines of hotels and other aspects of the hospitality industry.
Two years ago payments startup Stripe launched a new product called Stripe Connect to serve a growing number of marketplace customers. Today the company is launching a new set of capabilities that will enable new marketplace categories and help companies sign up and onboard sellers and service providers to their platforms.
“When Stripe launched in 2011, very early on, one of  the fastest growing use cases we saw was companies not accepting money on behalf of themselves but accepting money on behalf of third parties,” co-founder John Collison told me. Those businesses included e-commerce marketplaces, crowdfunding platforms and 1099-style gig economy startups.
In each case, what they had in common was that they needed to build their own systems for managing payments coming in, tracking who earned what and then dealing with all the regulatory and tax implications of making payments out to sellers or service providers. The situation was even more complicated for businesses that operate internationally and need to deal with multiple regulatory regimes and payment endpoints.
Rather than having to each build their own in-house payments teams, Stripe Connect was launched to commoditize all the payments infrastructure needed to serve both sides of a two-sided marketplace. According to Collison, that included building a funds-routing engine, a
payouts engine, onboarding management, receipts verification, as well as compliance and platform operations for U.S. and international regulatory regimes.
With those problems mostly solved, Stripe Connect is looking to tackle some of the more complex issues its marketplace customers face. For instance, not every marketplace has just two sides of a transaction: Increasingly, customers are looking for ways to manage one-to-many payments and many-to-many fund flows. Meanwhile, other customers desired tools that would allow them to hold funds in an escrow-like state or provide direct account debits.
By offering new payment types within Stripe Connect, the company is providing more flexibility around the way payments are routed. Ultimately that will simplify the business logic of some existing customers, but it could also enable new business models to emerge.
The second big addition to Stripe Connect is a new onboarding flow called Express, which customers can use to get sellers and service providers signed up to receive payments. For businesses like Lyft or Postmates, where growing their supply of service providers is critical to providing a high level of service, reducing the friction associated with getting them paid can become a key differentiator.
With Express, those businesses no longer have to manually import their outgoing payment information into Stripe’s platform. Instead, Stripe Connect provides a landing page where sellers or service providers are asked to input their own personal and payment information, which is then connected to the business’ payment system.
That not only shortens the time it takes for service providers to get paid, but it also removes a step in the onboarding process for the marketplace company. “Very small improvements can represent very big gains down the line in getting a marketplace set up,” Collison told me.
For Stripe, that doesn’t just mean making customers happier — it also means driving more payments through its APIs and developer toolkit. And that, ultimately, means more volume and more money for Stripe.
Uber and Lyft had paused their operations in Austin, TX back in 2016, because local regulators imposed rules that both argued were overly taxing to running their businesses. The rules included requiring fingerprint-based background checks for drivers, as well as barring pick-ups and drop-offs in lanes on certain roads within the city. Both Uber and Lyft will resume operations because Texas state regulators have passed a bill that overrules local regulations regarding ride-hailing services.
State Governor Greg Abbot will sign the new bill into law on Monday, the same day that both will resume service in the city, as The Texas Tribune reports. The bill, offiically HB 100, essentially undoes the rules put in place by Austin municipal regulators, standardizing requirements for ride-hailing operations across the state, and requiring that they have a permit from the state licensing body, which incurs an annual operations fee. It requires background checks performed at the local, state and national level, but doesn’t require that these include fingerprinting.
Uber confirmed it will return to active operating status in Austin on Monday, and provided the following statement to TechCrunch via spokesperson Travis Considine:
Austin is an incubator for technology and entrepreneurship, and we are excited to be back in the mix. Our local team is focused on making sure that Uber works for Austinites and helping our driver-partners earn. We know that we have a lot of work to do in the city, but we couldn’t be more excited for the road ahead.

: Jeremy Woodhouse/Getty Images
Twilio is getting into the serverless game today with the beta launch of Twilio Functions. Like other so-called “serverless” platforms, Functions abstracts away all of the tiresome server and infrastructure management and scaling and allows developers to focus on building their event-driven applications.
“Writing code is a creative endeavor,” said Patrick Malatack, Twilio VP of Product, in today’s announcement. “The developers and businesses building cloud communications apps should be focusing on the customer experience, not managing servers. Fueling the future of communications starts with unleashing developer creativity, and that’s exactly what Twilio Functions was designed to do. We can’t wait to see what developers build next!”
So instead of having to set up and maintain the infrastructure (or scale it as demand grows), developers can use functions to run their code on Twilio’s platform whenever a new SMS message comes in, for example. To do this, developers have to write their code in JavaScript and Twilio then executes it in a standard Node.js environment that runs on Twilio’s infrastructure.
To be honest, the term “serverless” is one of my least favorite buzzwords right now (it’s right up there with “hyperconverged”). While it captures the fact that it abstracts away all the underlying infrastructure, the programming model is more about triggering code execution based on incoming events.
The other promise of this event-driven model is that you only pay for the compute resources you actually use. For Functions, this means that the first 10,000 requests to Functions are free. After that, you pay $0.0001 for each request. You also can use the service to host static files. The pricing model here is the same, with 10,000 free requests and a price of $0.0001 per request after that.
All of this runs in the Twilio Runtime, which comes with helper libraries, API keys, preconfigured assets and debugging tools.
One of the problems publishers face today in making their content more readable on mobile devices is that there are multiple, competing formats available for this purpose. Facebook has Instant Articles, Google is spearheading the AMP (Accelerated Mobile Pages) project, and the Apple News Format optimizes content for iOS devices. Facebook is today taking a crack at a solution to this problem by rolling out support for both AMP and soon Apple News as a part of its open source Instant Articles software development kit.
The updated SDK will now include an extension that lets publishers build content that’s publishable in all three formats, beginning with support for Google’s AMP in addition to Facebook’s own Instant Articles. In the weeks ahead it will also include support for publishing to Apple News, though the company didn’t provide an exact launch date for when that feature would be added.
At a high level, the SDK will take the markup that’s used to build Facebook’s Instant Articles and use it to create the code that’s needed to build for AMP and Apple News. While the multiple systems aren’t identical, of course, Facebook says it will offer ways for publishers to apply the custom styling templates for the competing services – including the application of things like custom fonts, colors, and captions, which will be mirrored as closely as possible in the other formats.
The goal with this change is to offer a design once, publish anywhere experience – and naturally it’s one where publishing to Facebook is the first priority, in terms of getting things right.
The functionality will be made available through an extension to the Facebook Instant Articles SDK, which is found here on Github. (Documentation on its usage is on the Facebook for Developers site, here.)
The idea for the extension came about as part of the Facebook Journalism Project, a program that aims to connect Facebook with media publishers to help inform the company’s roadmap for upcoming news features on its site. The project’s other ideas include things like letting publishers offer free trials to their paid subscriptions via Facebook, hackathons with publishers’ development teams, digest packages that Facebook users can subscribe to, PSAs to promote news literacy across Facebook, tutorials for journalists, and more.
However, the extension’s launch also comes at a time when a number of high-profile publishers have begun to abandon Facebook’s format, due to its lack of monetization options.
In April, for example, it was reported that Forbes, Hearst, The New York Times and others have backed out of Instant Articles. Other major media organizations including Bloomberg, The WSJ, ESPN, CBS News, NPR, Financial Times, and VICE News have also been holdouts, running little to no content in Facebook’s format. Others who have used the format have been winding down their support; and last month, The Guardian pulled out of both Facebook’s Instant Articles and Apple News.
Publishers are generally unhappy with the deals the platforms are cutting on revenue sharing, and don’t like that the Instant Article format prevents them from having a more direct relationship with their readers. Sending visitors to stripped down, mobile-optimized pages may be a good experience for readers who don’t have to deal with pop-ups and other clutter, but it has historically meant that publishers can’t serve all the same advertisements as on the web, nor encourage donations, push paid subscriptions, promote their email newsletters or events, or make other connections with readers.
Facebook has tried to stem some of these concerns by tweaking the rules for Instant Articles – allowing them to show more ads, for example, or by rolling out new features, like call-to-action units in the articles that can promote email sign-ups or request Page Likes. It lets publishers push free trials and app downloads, among other things.
Now, by tying Facebook Instant Articles to AMP and Apple News, the company hopes that it can lure publishers back to its platform by making it possible to publish to all three major services at once. But without fully loosening its restrictions, Facebook may still have a hard time making the case for Instant Articles, if the format doesn’t match up with publishers’ larger goals.
Mogees, the London startup behind the Mogees Pro and Mogees Play contact microphone and machine learning-based music and gaming devices, has raised $1.1 million in seed funding — capital it plans to use to embed its “gestural recognition tech” into new products and applications.
Specifically, the company says it is developing new multi-platform hardware and software targeting IoT, gaming, VR, AR, “smart toys” and industrial applications.
Founder Bruno Zamborlin tells this will consist of an embedded/wireless version of the Mogees technology in the form of a tiny chip designed to improve third party products.
“What I think is great about our technology is that it is non-intrusive, incredibly sensitive and works well with pretty much any physical object an shape,” he says.
“We are now looking for further investors and partners interested in improving their products through machine learning. Clearly this news reflects our confidence that Mogees technology has applications beyond music and interactive entertainment with many obvious uses and benefits across a wide range of sectors”.
What those “obvious” use cases are, the startup isn’t saying and I’m clearly not smart enough to make too many guesses.
The company’s first product targeted musicians with a device that could work with both iOS and a Mac and professional MIDI/DAW software, such as Apple’s Logic Pro. It essentially turns any surface into a musical instrument and professional sound design tool.
The second Mogees Play product is more affordable and aimed at casual gaming and the education market, with an emphasis on being musical without much or any prior musical knowledge.
Meanwhile, Mogees’ investors include Elio Leoni Sceti (former CEO of Iglo group and previously CEO of EMI), Haim Perry (founder and board member of Hotels4U), and Eric Nicoli CBE (former Non-Executive Chairman of HMV Group plc, and also a former Chair of EMI Group, amongst numerous positions). A.I. Music Group, founded by Siavash Mahdavi, also participated in the seed round.
In other words, an investor list with a heavy bent towards music, retail, entertainment, in addition to tech.
Bike sharing has taken a turn in the U.S., following trends in China. The new mode is “dockless,” where companies distribute bikes around a city or campus to be rented per trip instead of dispensing them from one station. The bikes are tracked via GPS, and can be located by users, paid for and unlocked using their smartphones. Best of all, when riders are done with one of these bikes, they can park them anywhere that’s convenient (and legal).
As TechCrunch has previously reported, venture investors are pouring money into startups trying to make dockless bike sharing a success domestically. These businesses are facing fragmented regulations and competition from better-funded Chinese players coming to North America, as well as incumbents like Motivate Co., the kiosk-based bike-sharing company that has locked up agreements with cities across the country.
The latest to score a round of funding is Spin (incorporated as Skinny Labs Inc.), a San Francisco startup founded by veterans of the tech scene: CEO Derrick Ko, president Euwyn Poon and CTO Zaizhuang Cheng. Spin just closed an $8 million Series A round of venture funding led by Grishin Robotics, and joined by Exponent.VC, CRCM and angel investors Matt Brezina and Charlie Cheever.
Euwyn Poon said now that it has locked in a Series A round, Spin will ramp up hiring and embark on negotiations with different municipalities to bring its bike-sharing service across the country without ruffling feathers.
Dockless bike-sharing companies have stirred fears that bikes will clutter the sidewalks, posing a hazard to pedestrians and creating an eyesore. To keep their company in good standing with regulators and cities, Spin has enlisted Molly Turner, the founder of Airbnb’s policy team, as an advisor.
Spin co-founders in San Francisco
Grishin Robotics founder Dmitry Grishin said he believes cities will want to have Spin’s bikes around because of their potential to reduce pollution and traffic and increase users’ fitness. The investor said, “It has surprised me that ride-hailing apps have not significantly reduced traffic jams in places like San Francisco. Traffic is getting worse all the time. We need to add more systematic ways to solve short distance travel. Making bikes more accessible in cities will help. It’s very good for commuters, but also tourists. So it’s a huge market opportunity.”
Spin’s competition includes several other funded startups here. Social Bicycles, the first to offer kiosk-free bike sharing in the U.S., has raised $7 million, and has already reached profitability. Another early bike-share player, Zagster, closed a $10 million Series B round that it announced in January. And earlier this spring, LimeBike closed a $12 million Series A round led by Andreessen Horowitz.
Derrick Ko, a former Lyft product manager, said Spin will differentiate its offering with bikes that are comfortable to ride and self-locking, and an easy-to-use app. While Spin allows users to pay with Apple Pay and Android Pay, or by inputting their credit card info into the company’s app today, the startup will look to integrate other payment technologies down the line.
Spin CTO Zaizhuang Cheng said, “One of our goals is to bring equitable bike sharing to all the communities who may not have credit cards and smartphones. We have seen examples of this in Taiwan. They make it easy for someone to take a train, and when they get off, continue their journey on a bike.” (It could prove convenient to be able to pay for a bike with the same card you used for the subway.)
Spin will roll out bikes in Seattle this June, the co-founders said. But they did not disclose how many bikes they would dispatch in that market, or other cities where they plan to operate this year.

: spin.pm
Atlantic.Net, the Florida-based hosting provider, today announced that its users can now use Windows Server Containers on its platform to bring their existing Windows workloads into the cloud.
While many of the larger cloud providers like AWS and Google also offer support for Windows containers on their virtual machines and dedicated container platforms, Atlantic.Net’s more direct competitors like DigitalOcean and Linode typically only offer support for Linux distributions (though OVH, for example, does feature Windows Server support, too).
Atlantic.Net’s CEO Marty Puranik tells me that in order to enable this, the company is launching a container-ready image of Windows Server 2016 beside the standard Windows Server 2016 image. This means developers won’t have to go through PowerShell to download and install extensions to start working with containers.
Puranik noted that he’s mostly seeing demand from DevOps groups that want to move their Windows applications into the cloud and he expects that quite a few companies will also want to use this new service to quickly test and deploy containers on Windows Server 2016. He also tells me that his company may look at launching a dedicated container service if there’s enough customer demand for it, but for now, the company wants to give businesses a platform for deploying and scaling their Windows Containers.
“As a side note: because we deploy virtual machines much faster than AWS and have faster SSD Raid10 local storage the whole experience is much better — server is ready faster, it just does everything more snappy — and you get redundancy on the server storage as well,” Puranik noted. “So once people try our environment, they don’t want to go back.”
Windows Server hosting plans at Atlantic.Net currently start at $0.0208 per hour (or $14 per month).

: Shutterstock UNDER A CC BY 2.0 LICENSE
Rackspace announced today it was purchasing TriCore, giving it an enterprise applications management play to go along with its cloud management services.
The announcement comes just one day after the company announced it was bringing a new CEO onboard, make it a busy week for the firm.
The companies did not share the terms of the deal, but Rackspace called it the largest acquisition in company history. To this point, it had acquired 8 companies, none since 2013 according to Crunchbase data.
The move gives Rackspace the ability to not only manage a company’s cloud services, but also move up the stack and begin managing complex applications from large enterprise software companies like Oracle or SAP, something Rackspace says customers have been asking for increasingly.
It also means that the company can move away from competing directly with public cloud providers, which is rapidly becoming a no-win proposition, Ted Chamberlin, an analyst for Gartner who covers cloud service providers told TechCrunch. Grabbing TriCore will give Rackspace access to new markets inside companies that don’t compete directly with the big infrastructure vendors.
“It’s evident that Rackspace, as well as most other IaaS providers, just can’t compete with the scale, pricing and rapid product development of AWS, Azure and Google Cloud. TriCore helps them get to more on-premise workloads for mid-to-large enterprises, an area that Google and AWS won’t touch,” he explained.
It also could give Rackspace deeper access inside large organizations beyond IT into business units. “They no longer are selling commoditized infrastructure capacity; they now can sell to the lines of businesses and support the core ERP applications like SAP, Oracle and JD Edwards that run entire companies,” Chamberlin said.
TriCore, a Norwell, Massachusetts-based company has been around since 1999 and boasts over 500 employees. It appears TriCore will be for the most part continuing to operate on its own while working together with Rackspace on cross-sales opportunities where it makes sense.
TriCore brings with it 275 customers and can work with customers on any infrastructure whether in the public cloud, a private datacenter, TriCore’s own datacenter or a co-location facility.
The deal is expected to close in June.

: Andrew Hyde/Flickr UNDER A CC BY 2.0 LICENSE (IMAGE HAS BEEN MODIFIED)
Back in the mists of 2014 we revealed how one of the UK’s most active venture investment funds operated. To this day Octopus Ventures continues to rub shoulders with the most active institutional VC funds at the early stage, even though it’s technically an evergreen fund attached to the stock market. It’s backed hits like LoveFilm, Zoopla through to IPO, Graze as well as Secret Escapes and SwiftKey which sold to Microsoft. Then there was Evi to Amazon, and Magic Pony to Twitter, and Rangespan (Google) and Vision Direct (Essilor). It’s even in that hipster music startup Sofar Sounds.
The twin combination of Alex Macpherson, who heads the Ventures team at Octopus, with George Whitehead running Venture Partners and chairing the AngelCo Fund has been pretty active. Macpherson says they’ve been “incredibly fortunate to back some truly outstanding entrepreneurs, many of whom come back to us time and time again with new ventures.”
It turns 10 this year and has ‘opened the kimono’ to put some more detailed figures about its business out there.
The current fund size is now £661m, with a portfolio of 55 companies. That’s not as much as the triumvirate of Index, Accel, Balderton (for instance) also out of the UK, but is highly significant. It tends to invest £100m a year. That translates into £250,000 to a potential £25 million in a first round of funding.
It’s now spread between London, New York and has Venture Partners based in San Francisco, Shanghai and Singapore, who are designed to help and support the Octopus portfolio as they grow.
Octopus Ventures is backed by evergreen funds in VCT, EIS and traditional LP/GP funds. These Evergreen funds come from retail investors, listed on the London Stock exchange. That means it can continue to raise funds from the public markets. It’s not quite the same as VC funds backed by pension funds or family offices, but it’s still a contender. It also means it can invest early to decent later rounds.

: Alexander Rieber / EyeEm/Getty Images
TechCrunch’s first ever robotics event is fast approaching, and we’re putting the final touches on an amazing programming line-up, which includes MIT’s Daniela Rus, Disney’s Martin Buehler, Amazon’s Tye Brady, ABB’s Sami Atiya, iRobot’s Colin Angle, SRI’s Manish Kothari and many more. Look for the full agenda soon, but today we’re announcing several big additions to a line-up designed to bring together the fast emerging robotics and AI startup ecosystems with the corporate, government, and research worlds. 
General admission tickets for the July 17 event at MIT’s Kresge Auditorium are on sale now. (See below for special student ticket pricing.) 

The Toyota Research View 
Dr. Gill Pratt is the Executive Technical Advisor and CEO of the Toyota Research Institute (TRI), where he oversees research on AI-based autonomous systems in vehicles as well as home robotics. TRI’s mission notes that “Home robots may become even more personally prized in our future than cars have been in our past.”  
Before joining TRI, Dr. Pratt served for five years as a program manager in the Defense Sciences Office at the US Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA). His areas of research included interfaces that enhance human/machine collaboration and the application of neuroscience techniques to robot perception and control.
Dr. Pratt has a PhD in electrical engineering and computer science from MIT and holds several patents in series elastic actuation and adaptive control.
How to Build a Robotics Startup
We’ve already announced a panel of leading VCs, including SRI’s Manish Kothari, Lux Capital’s Josh Wolfe and Lemnos Labs Helen Zelman Boniske to discuss the state of robotics startup investing. To help entrepreneurs, we’re adding a second panel that goes at the big question: What does it take to succeed as a robotics startup? Our three panelists know the topic cold.
Helen Grenier is one of the most distinguished serial entrepreneurs in the robotics field. She is the founder of CyPhy Works, one of the leading commercial drone manufacturers, as well as a co-founder of iRobot, arguably the most successful robotics startup to date. Grenier is an MIT graduate with degrees in mechanical engineering and computer science.
Andy Wheeler is a general partner at GV (formerly Google Ventures), the venture arm of Alphabet Inc. Wheeler is a technologist who helped pioneer breakthrough in wireless networking and energy management and an entrepreneur who played leading roles at Adura, Tendril Networks, and Ember. He is an avid investor in robotics startups such as Airware, Abundant Robotics, Carbon, Momentum Machines, Wonder Workshop, Skycatch and  Savioke. He holds a BS and MS in electrical engineering and computer science from MIT.
Elaine Chen literally wrote the book on bringing products, especially robotics products, to market. She worked as VP of engineering and product management at several startups, including Rethink Robotics, Zeo, Zeemote, and SensAble Technologies. Chen is a Senior Lecturer at the MIT Sloan School of Management and Entrepreneur-in-Residence at the Martin Trust Center for MIT Entrepreneurship. Elaine holds a BS and an MS in mechanical engineering from MIT.
Want to be there in person? Don’t wait to get your tickets to see all of these speakers live on July 17 at MIT’s Kresge Auditorium – get your tickets here.  
Want your company to participate in the event? find out how you can be aligned with this great event here. 
Look for the full agenda soon and in the meantime check out our other speaker posts here.
Students currently enrolled in a college or university program are eligible for reduced admission to TC Sessions: Robotics. To apply for this rate, send a copy of your current transcripts showing your current enrollment status and a copy of your university identification card to students@techcrunch.com. Upon approval, you will be provided instructions on how to complete your registration.
Productivity app maker Readdle is rolling out a new feature across its line of iOS applications that takes advantage of the iPad’s support for split screen viewing to make it easier to move files between apps. The move could encourage current Readdle customers to buy the software maker’s larger suite of apps in order to take advantage of the new functionality.
Split view is a feature available on select iPads, including the iPad Air 2, iPad mini 4, and iPad Pro and later devices. It allows for a split-paned experience, making iPads work more like a traditional computer where you’re able to move between different windows, instead of remaining locked inside one app at a time.
Readdle’s support for drag-and-drop in split screen mode will work its mobile scanning app, Scanner Pro; PDF reader and editor PDF Expert; email app Spark; and file manager Documents. The latter is also getting an upgrade designed to make the latest version, Documents 6, more like a Finder for iOS devices.
The company is one of the first to fully take advantage of split screen multi-tasking on iPad for work productivity, with this release.

For example, you could drag a file you just scanned from Scanner Pro over to Spark, where it would become an email attachment, or copy it over to another app, like PDF Expert. Or you could pull in an email attachment from Spark over to PDF Expert where you could edit the file before sending it back. You could also grab multiple files from Documents, then drag them over the Spark to email them to recipients.
Readdle is able to make its support for split screen compelling because it has the ecosystem to support it. The company’s apps have been downloaded over 65 million times, and have millions of monthly active users.

Today’s developers often struggle to figure out how to upsell existing customers by encouraging them to download the company’s other apps, but this drag-and-drop feature makes a good case for iPad productivity users as to why to buy into Readdle’s whole ecosystem.
However, it’s possible that with a new release of iOS, Apple will offer a new API that requires developers to support drag and drop in their apps, by specifying what files can be dragged out and what file types their apps receive. This would enable drag and drop to work across iPad, and make for a more robust computing experience in general – something that could better rival Microsoft’s Surface.
If this were to roll out, it would limit the appeal of Readdle’s apps as files could be moved between any apps on the device. But until Apple implements such a thing, Readdle lets you preview what that experience would be like.
Microsoft’s live-streaming service Beam, which the company acquired last year shortly after it emerged as the winner of the TechCrunch Disrupt Startup Battlefield, is today getting a new name: Mixer. The name is meant to express the way the service brings people together, the team explains, but it’s not the only change rolling out today, as it turns out. Mixer is also launching new features including co-streaming, a mobile broadcasting app for iOS and Android, a new guide for finding what’s currently streaming across its service, and more.
With the launch of co-streaming, Mixer will now allow up to four streamers to combine their streams into a single page, where they’re displayed in a split screen view. This allows viewers to watch all the streams at the same time, while also participating in a centralized chat. While the feature could be used to broadcast a co-op session of “League of Legends,” notes the blog post about the new feature, it doesn’t have to be used to stream the same content.

Friends could be playing different games or even streaming something non-game related, like the music from a band or a multi-player board game.
Using a live streaming platform for more than gameplay is something rival Twitch has focused on in recent months, as well. The Amazon-owned company has added new channels for creative content, tools for vlogging, and ways for viewers to find streams related to non-gaming interests, as a means of broadening its user base beyond hard-core gamers.
This  co-streaming feature is rolling out today to all Mixer users and, in a few weeks time, Xbox One users will be able to invite friends to co-stream right from the Guide.
Mixer is also launching a new mobile app called Mixer Create into beta. The app will work on both iOS and Android devices, and currently allows you to self-broadcast. Soon, the app will allow to stream mobile gameplay directly from your smartphone to the Mixer service. When this launches, you’ll also be able to co-stream with friends who are broadcasting on PC, console, or mobile devices.
Also new is “Channel One” – a guide to what’s happening across the Mixer service. This aims to help viewers find something to watch by highlighting new releases, livestream events, tips and tricks, esports updates, and other content. The feature can also serve as an introductory guide to new users, who may not know exactly where to get started on the service, given the array of available content to watch.
The Xbox One dashboard will add a Mixer page, too, which will be another way of exploring what’s popular across the service.
While Microsoft hasn’t disclosed Mixer’s numbers, it’s clear that the company is heavily invested in bringing a cross-platform live streaming experience to users. Mixer (then called Beam) arrived on the Windows 10 platform through the Creators Update earlier this year, and hit the Xbox One at the same time.
With the added support for co-streaming and live broadcasting, Microsoft is also preparing a platform that can extend beyond just gameplay, offering streamers a way to live broadcast anything to their viewers, including their own vlogs.

In addition to all these updates, Mixer also announced a new digital production studio in the Microsoft Store in New York, called the Mixer NYC Studio.
The idea is that the studio will offer broadcast facilities and host gaming and esports events, which will go out live to viewers across the Mixer service.  Using a physical retail store for real-world events that showcase the company’s technology is something Apple is doing as well, most recently with expanded educational programming featuring artists, photographers and musicians.
The studio supports 2D and 3D graphic effects, a digital audio system bringing arena, concert sound quality, full interactive lighting control, an LED video wall, shoutcaster desks and player lounges, along with stage, audience and commentary setups, says Mixer.
Update, 6/1/17: Microsoft reached out to correct its earlier announcement and clarify that the mobile app is only currently available on iOS via TestFlight, not in the public app store. The beta is publicly available on Android, and the public release will launch on both platforms, iOS and Android, in the weeks ahead. 
Do you think you know cars?
Well, Blippar’s new machine learning technology is ready to take you on, as the augmented reality/visual search company is today announcing automotive recognition tech.
In other words, Blippar’s AI can identify the make, model and year of any U.S. car made in 2000 or after, as long as the car is traveling slower than 15mph.
Blippar originally launched as an AR platform for brands and publishers. Using a little tag (a Blipp), brands could identify content like a label of a ketchup bottle or an ad in a magazine that users could scan with their phones to reveal extra augmented reality content.
The company has since pivoted to focus on visual search. There are plenty of things you see in the real world that are difficult to describe via text in a Google Search, such as flowers or items of clothing or an unfamiliar animal.
The company has spent the last year building out that visual search engine to identify generic objects — a table, a chair, a cup, and so on — and has laid the foundation to dive into specific verticals for visual search.
That begins with this automotive identification technology.

The technology will live within the Blippar app for folks who want to play around with it, offering information around make, model, year, average review rating, and a 360-degree view of the car, both inside and out. But the larger play comes in the form of an API, also launching today.
Secondhand sellers and insurance companies can build in this automotive identification technology into their own apps and pay on a performance basis to enhance their own businesses.
The tech has over 97.7 percent accuracy in recognizing vehicles, and Blippar says the technology is beyond what most humans can identify by sight.

We can expect to see Blippar roll out this type of technology, and accompanying API, across a number of sectors over the next year. In fact, CEO Rish Mitra mentioned that fashion is coming soon.
Blippar has raised a total of $99 million in funding from the likes of Qualcomm Ventures and Khazanah Nasional, according to Crunchbase.
There’s a new official mobile Pokémon game for iOS and Android devices, and it’s all about everyone’s favorite floppy fish: Magikarp. If you’re a longtime Pokémon fan, then you probably recall grinding with a Magikarp in your party to get it to level 20, whereupon (spoiler alert) it would blossom into a the powerful and awesome Gyarados.
While it was great to get the dragon-like Pokémon from a strategic standpoint, it was always bittersweet to say farewell to the adorable, ineffectual Magikarp. That’s why it’s great that this new mobile game is focused entirely on the fish with very few skills.
The game focuses on one of Magikarp’s few strong suits: Jumping. Your task as the player is to catch Magikarp and then train them to jump the highest. That involves feeding it berries, training it in a number of different ways and then having it compete at the jumping league.

It’s adorable and fun, and free to play (with in-app purchases), so check it out if you’re a fan of the series. I’m curious to see if it’ll keep player interest longer than either Super Mario Run or Pokémon Go, but a lot of that could depend on how much you like Magikarp. For me, the answer is very much a lot.
After leaving his role at Uber as VP of Global Vehicle Programs in April, Sherif Marakby is back at Ford to lead its autonomous vehicles and electrifications program. Marakby’s new VP role was announced as part of a general executive re-organization revealed on Thursday under new Ford CEO Jim Hackett.
Marakby joined Uber in April 2016, coming from Ford where he worked for 25 years, most recently as Director of Global Electrical/Electronic Systems Engineering. When Marakby’s departure from Uber became public in April, he didn’t specific future plans or a reason for his departure.
In his new role at Ford, Marakby will be a VP reporting to EVP and President of Global Markets Jim Farley. Other noteworthy shifts in leadership from a technology perspective include Ken Washington stepping into the CTO role, and continuing as VP of Research and Engineering, and former CTO Raj Nair (who just spoke at TechCrunch Disrupt NY 2017) moving to lead Ford’s North American operations.
The Tesla Model 3 is so close you could taste it (probably tastes like car) but we don’t yet know final specs on the vehicle. A new retail comparison chart surfaced at the Tesla Model 3 Owners Club forum (via InsideEVs) that offers some insight into what we can expect for specs, though it seems primarily designed to remind prospective buyers how great the Model S is by comparison.
In the diagram, we see that the Model 3 has a 0-60 mph acceleration time of 5.6 seconds, which is more than double the Model S best time of 2.3 seconds (which is achieved with the P100D variant operating in Ludicrous Mode). That’s in keeping with Tesla’s announced specs of “under 6 seconds” for the base model, which was made public in April, 2016.
The rest of the info from the chart was previously known, including a “215+” mile range from a single charge, and delivery time extending out beyond the one year mark, as well as pay-per-use charging at Tesla’s high-speed Supercharger stations. The trunk space detail also shows the value gap between the two cars – the smaller Model 3 has less than half the interior storage volume across both its trunk and its ‘frunk’ (front trunk).
While a 5.6 second 0-60 time isn’t going to break any records, it does put the Model 3 in comfortable company with the Audi A3 and near the BMW 330i, and it’ll definitely feel like a fast car, especially for sedan owners coming to electric from the first time from fuel injection vehicles.
The entrepreneurial spirit has never been stronger, so it’s no surprise that co-working spaces are so hot right now.
The Yard, for example, has recently secured a $15 million credit line to expand its coworking offering to startups in New York City.
Founded by Morris Levy and Richard Beyda, The Yard wants to be the more ‘grown-up’ co-working space, with opaque walls instead of glass between offices and better sound-proofing so members can get down to work without distraction.
“People don’t want to look at the mess in the office next door or worry about others looking at their computer screen,” said CEO Morris Levy.
He told TechCrunch that The Yard focuses on smaller spaces, which fosters a more tight-knit community, while keeping the space fresh with art that’s swapped out monthly. Of course, going for the more mature companies means no foosball, ping-pong or beer on draught, but Levy wants to be hyper-focused on deliverables.
“We’re not the biggest, but we focus on making the experience special,” said Levy. “It’s like when you go to a restaurant with a single-page menu instead of a six-page menu. You know you can close your eyes and point to something and it’s going to be delicious.”
Metaphors aside, The Yard has taken a slower approach to growth than competitors like WeWork.
The company was founded in 2011, with $30 million in funding from the co-founders and two other silent partners, according to Levy. Since launch, The Yard has expanded to nine locations in New York and Philadelphia, with five currently under construction.
The Yard has around 2,500 members right now, and expects to hit 5,000 by the new year.
WeWork, meanwhile, boasts more than 100,000 members and nearly 50 locations after raising $3.69 billion in equity funding.
That said, Levy thinks the measured approach is a smart way to deliver quality service, and a credit line instead of equity funding allows he and his partners to continue growing The Yard without selling off chunks of the company.
The Yard, which is priced based on location and space, also puts focus on back-end technology — the company calls their platform The Back Yard. It allows companies to access the building 24/7, book conference rooms, communicate with other members in their building and other members at other locations, among other things.
Levy comes from a real estate background, but the CEO insists that The Yard is a services business, not a real estate play. When asked about the greatest challenge:
“Temperature,” he said. “One office might be hot and the other cold, and you want people to be comfortable. The other is printers. Printers are always tough.”
Reali wants to change how people buy and sell their homes and now it has $5 million more to work on it, thanks to a Series A led by Signia Venture Partners. The company also today announced that it is expanding beyond to the entire San Francisco Bay area, including the cities of San Francisco, Oakland and San Jose, and that its app is now available on Android, too.
The service aims to take the hassle out of real estate transactions for both buyers and sellers and also promises buyers a full refund of the standard buyer’s agent commission. Instead of this commission, Reali charges a flat fee of just under $5,000. The seller’s commission is also reduced to 4 percent. Given the markets Reali is active in, those percentages can add up quickly (though in some states, including Oregon, Kansas and Tennessee, these kind of rebates are actually illegal thanks to the tireless work of the local real estate lobbies).
It’s able to do this thanks to a focus on tech (like installing smart locks and Bluetooth beacons for self-guided visits in homes so that a potential buyer can tour it without an agent having to drive out to the house).
As Reali co-founder and CEO Amit Haller told me, the company plans to use the new funding to invest in its technology platform, enhance its operational footprint and expand its market reach.



SearchResults




BuyersJourney




Listing2




 View Slideshow


Previous
Next
Exit


“With our expansion to the entire San Francisco Bay Area, we want to demonstrate the excitement, adoption and trust that we’ve experienced on the Peninsula and strengthen our leadership position in this very competitive market,” Haller said. “Once we’ve accomplished that successfully here in the Bay Area, we plan to expand into other major California markets, as well as selected regions out of state.”
Haller doesn’t seem to be all that worried about competing services like Redfin. “Many of the other online brokerages haven’t changed the fundamentals of the business,” he said. “They are still heavily based on the use of traditional real estate agents, and most of their technology has to do with lead generation and discovery platforms. Unlike other online brokerages, Reali has invested in and created an end-to-end transaction and collaboration platform.”
He also argued that his company’s business model means it can provide better customer service and still give them all the advantages of working with licensed real estate brokers.
A new accelerator program being run by Canada’s Creative Destruction Lab (CDL) is hoping to find technologists in the quantum machine learning field who want to become founders and give them access to cutting-edge equipment to make their projects into companies. The program will be run out of the University of Toronto’s Rotman School of Management, and will include investment from venture funds Bloomberg Beta, Data Collective and Spectrum 28.
Operating over the last five years, CDL has been focused on helping researchers with deep expertise in artificial intelligence and machine learning to build applications and create companies around those technologies. With that track record, CDL is looking to replicate its success in other universities while also focusing on specific applications and technologies.
The first application of that idea will be the CDL’s Quantum Machine Learning initiative, which aims to develop and support the world’s largest batch of quantum machine learning startups — and along the way maybe convince them to settle in Canada.
Bloomberg Beta, Data Collective and Spectrum 28 will provide funding to founders and teams that participate. Those who graduate the program will receive $80,000 in tranched funding in exchange for 8 percent of equity, which will be divided between those investors.
For the next cohort to be accepted, the CDL is adding a twist: In addition to the usual nine-month objective-setting program, which breaks product and application development down into a series of four eight-week sprints, those who are accepted will have access to and be trained on D-Wave’s 2000Q quantum computer, a cutting-edge piece of quantum computing equipment.
Participants will also receive coaching from a wide range of mentors, including William Tunstall-Pedoe, Barney Pell, Geordie Rose, Sally Daub, Anthony Lacavera, Ted Livingston, James Cham, Matt Ocko, Lyon Wong and Steve Jurvetson, among others.
The CDL is looking to accept up to 40 individuals or teams to its next program, which will begin September in Toronto. In particular, the team is hoping to find applicants with graduate-level degrees in physics, math, statistics or electrical engineering who also have some experience in machine learning.
It’s currently accepting applications for the program through July 24, and is hoping to attract talent from around the world. In addition to the funding from investors, the CDL will offer relocation assistance to international applicants and also provide assistance in obtaining a visa to participate in the program.

: SimonP/Wikimedia Commons UNDER A CC BY-SA 3.0 LICENSE
Oculus has a new update out for its PC software that brings roomscale tracking with three sensors out of beta, making it an officially and fully supported way of tracking a VR user in 360 degrees. The app update also adds improvements to multi-sensor tracking, including two-sensor 360, though that mode is still classified as experimental.
The update also now warns users when they’ve plugged their Rift into the wrong GPU on their PC, and you can also be made aware when your antivirus system or windows settings have stopped an application from completing installation. The UI for onboarding new users also gets a new short video about safety while using Rift and Touch, and you can optionally toggle health and safety reminders that display every time you enter UI – presumably this is meant to stop people getting bumps and bruises resulting from forgetting the real world exists while immersed in the virtual world.
Three-sensor tracking now also fully supports sitting and standing modes, too, so you can get the full range of VR experiences at a level of quality that Oculus feels comfortable no longer calling “experimental.” I’ve spent a lot of time using a three-sensor setup and can confirm that it feels pretty polished at this point, so this makes a lot of sense.
Red Hat, which has made its name as the enterprise Linux company, has been making clear in recent years that it sees the cloud and containerization as a significant part of its future. Today, it announced its intent to acquire San Francisco startup Codenvy to continue building on that strategy and give developers access to a cloud-based integrated development environment.
The company did not reveal the purchase price.
Codenvy is the company built on top of the open source project, Eclipse Che, which fits with Red Hat’s overall strategy to build commercial tools on top of open source projects. It offers a cloud-based integrated development environment (IDEs) for individual developers, teams or enterprises. IDEs are essentially workspaces for coding, building and testing apps.
In a company blog post announcing the acquisition, Harry Mower, senior director of developer programs at Red Hat made clear his company sees Codenvy as much more than simply a cloud IDE. “At the heart of Codenvy’s technology is a workspace management system that allows developers to get up and running instantly without the need to set up a local development environment,” Mower wrote.
Integral to that vision are containers, the ability to launch applications as discrete pieces of code or containers instead of launching a single monolithic application. Developers are using tools like Docker and Kubernetes to build these containerized environments.
Codenvy CEO Tyler Jewell sees the acquisition as a way to extend his company’s vision by combining resources with a much larger organization and building a much broader container vision than his company could have done alone. “The rapid adoption of containers makes orchestration standards the industry’s next step. We held the view that Kubernetes and Red Hat OpenShift are leading the way in this space. So when Red Hat shared their container vision, our decision to join them became a “no-brainer,” Jewell wrote in a blog post.
Red Hat has actually been telegraphing that a move like this could be coming for some time. For starters, Red Hat, Codenvy and Microsoft joined forces last year to in Red Hat’s words, “provide a common way to integrate programming languages across code editors and IDEs.” Red Hat went on to join the Eclipse Che community last year and began contributing code. A few weeks ago, the company announced Openshift.io, a set of cloud-based developers tools based in part on — wait for it — Eclipse Che.
TechCrunch’s Frederic Lardinois described Openshift.io thusly: “What Red Hat has done here, though, is tie together a number of existing open source projects like fabric8, Jenkins, Eclipse Che and, of course, OpenShift into a free service that provides developers with a similar experience, but with a strong focus on container-based applications.”
Given these previous moves, the next logical step would seem to be acquiring the company built on top of Eclipse Che. When the deal closes, Codenvy’s employees will be joining the Openshift.io team.
Researchers from Georgia Institute of Technology have released a full report on a new attack vector that affects Android up to version 7.1.2. The exploit, called Cloak & Dagger, uses Android’s design and screen behaviors against users, effectively hiding activity behind various app-generated interface elements that lets a hacker grab screen interactions and hide activity behind seemingly innocuous screens.
The team, Yanick Fratantonio, Chenxiong Qian, Simon Pak Ho Chung, and Wenke Lee, have created proof of concept users of the exploit including a bit of malware that draws an invisible grid over the Android screen that exactly mirrors – and can capture – the onscreen keyboard.
“The possible attacks include advanced clickjacking, unconstrained keystroke recording, stealthy phishing, the silent installation of a God-mode app (with all permissions enabled), and silent phone unlocking + arbitrary actions (while keeping the screen off),” wrote the researchers on a dedicated website. They discovered the exploit last August.
From the paper:

￼Cloak & Dagger is a new class of potential attacks affecting Android devices. These attacks allow a malicious app to completely control the UI feedback loop and take over the device — without giving the user a chance to notice the malicious activity. These attacks only require two permissions that, in case the app is installed from the Play Store, the user does not need to explicitly grant and for which she is not even notified. Our user study indicates that these attacks are practical. These attacks affect all recent versions of Android (including the latest version, Android 7.1.2), and they are yet to be fixed.


The exploit depends primarily on Android’s SYSTEM_ALERT_WINDOW (“draw on top”) and BIND_ACCESSIBILITY_SERVICE (“a11y”) to draw interactive elements over real apps. For example, in the image above, the team drew a reasonable facsimile of the Facebook password field over the real password field for the app. The user then typed in their real password into the seemingly real password field. However, when the Facebook app is closed you can see the remaining password field hanging in space.
The easiest way to disable this exploit in Android 7.1.2 is to turn off the “draw on top” permission in Settings>Apps>”Gear symbol”>Special access>Draw over other apps.

Fratantonio’s advice? “The usual: don’t install random apps, check the permissions they have (but it’s tricky: these permissions are treated as ‘special’ and the user needs to navigate to special menus. We added the instructions to the website).”
“As of now, I think these attacks are as powerful as they can get,” he said. “The ball is in Google’s court now. That being said, it seems the new version of Android O might address some of these, we’ll start playing with it right away and see how it looks. We’ll keep the website updated.”

Google writes:
￼”We’ve been in close touch with the researchers and, as always, we appreciate their efforts to help keep our users safer.  We have updated Google Play Protect — our security services on all Android devices with Google Play — to detect and prevent the installation of these apps. Prior to this report, we had already built new security protections into Android O that will further strengthen our protection from these issues moving forward.”
In partnership with TechCrunch, PathFounders is the exclusive, invitation-only, event for startup Founders at The Europas Conference & Awards. With this, Founders get a special ‘founders and investors only’ half-day, on the day before The Europas (which they also join, for the whole thing), where they have dedicated sessions on building their company, fund-raising and also get to pitch their company in front of some of Europe’s key investors.
Here’s the agenda:
PATHFOUNDERS
• PITCHES: Founders, short pitches with slides
• How to build your brand – Harry Stebbings of 20 minute VC
• Growth-hacking workshop – by Growth Tribe
• How to PR your company right!, by Collette Ballou of Ballou PR
• Raising money from Angels, by serial angel investor Jeremy Yap
• VC investor panel
• Designing Your Culture Workshop
• PathFounders Fun Activities
As well as all that: it’s fun! The event networks people together in a convivial, unstuffy atmosphere.
The event is by invitation-only. You can apply in two ways. Either through literally pre-purchasing a ticket prior to selection or simply this form. (This ticket is for investors only).
Here’s a taster:

Because the conference and awards are supported by TechCrunch all PathFounders will get deep discounts to TechCrunch Disrupt in Berlin, later this year.
The numbers at the event are purposely limited to up to 100 people, combined investors and entrepreneurs.
Included on PathFounders, is a ticket to The Europas Conference & Awards itself. Instead of thousands and thousands of people, think of a great summer event with 1,000 of the most interesting and useful people in the industry, including key investors and leading entrepreneurs.
• No secret VIP rooms, which means you get to interact with the Speakers
• Key Founders and investors speaking; featured attendees invited to just network
• Expert speeches, discussions, and Q&A directly from the main stage
• Intimate “breakout” sessions with key players on vertical topics
• The opportunity to meet almost everyone in those small groups, super-charging your networking
• Journalists from major tech titles, newspapers and business broadcasters
• A stunning awards dinner and party which honors both the hottest startups and the leading lights in the European startup scene
• All on one day to maximise your time in London

And what better way to do that in the summer sun, in London’s coolest part of town, with a drink in your hand, the prospect of some great conversations, and a fantastic party and celebration of the European startup scene in the evening.

There are three types of tickets available
• Daytime conference and evening awards tickets (valid all day, June 13th) – this ticket includes the daytime conference and the awards dinner with ceremony and after party. It includes refreshments and lunch during the conference, and the awards drinks reception and dinner. Get your ticket here.
• Evening Awards-only tickets (valid from 18.00 until midnight, June 13th) – this ticket is for the awards dinner with ceremony and after party. It includes the awards drinks reception and dinner. Individual tickets are on sale here.
If you wish to purchase a table for 10 or 12 guest or a half table for 5 guests, please contact petra@twistedtree.co.uk.
The Europas Awards 2017 are held in association with London Tech Week and sponsors include HereEast, Highland Europe, ihorizon, JAG Shaw Baker, Orrick, and Fieldhouse Associates.
Interested in sponsoring the Europas or hosting a table at the awards? Get in touch with:
Petra Johansson // petra@theeuropas.com
This static test fire of one of SpaceX’s Falcon Heavy booster may not actually be sending any rockets to space, but it does put off a lot of exhaust. The bulk of that is actually steam, as SpaceX founder and CEO Elon Musk pointed out on Twitter following the release of the test fire footage – and there will be three times as much of it when the Falcon Heavy actually launches, since it’ll use three of these boosters to propel its considerable bulk into orbit.
The side booster test actually happened last week in McGregor, Texas, where SpaceX has a testing and development facility. It’s a key step as SpaceX prepares to launch the Falcon Heavy for the first time late this year, with a tentative timeframe of summer provided the Cape Canaveral LC-40 launch site is fully repaired and operational in time.


Static fire test of a Falcon Heavy side booster completed in McGregor, TX last week. This booster previously launched Thaicom 8. pic.twitter.com/nWrNCXtu13
— SpaceX (@SpaceX) May 25, 2017



Falcon Heavy will be able to carry up to 46,700 lbs of cargo to geostationary transfer orbit when it’s ready to roll, and up to 140,700 lbs to low-earth orbit, though its max capacity will require configuring the rocket in an expandable configuration that won’t allow for reuse. As with Falcon 9, SpaceX will aim to reuse Falcon Heavy first stage rockes where possible in order to minimize the cost of launches.
If all goes to plan, Falcon Heavy will have the highest cargo capacity of any operational rocket today, which will put SpaceX in a very good position when it comes to its Mars ambitions and to being able to offer something unique to prospective commercial customers.
Meta SaaS is a product that helps you cancel other products. Like Cardlife and Cleanshelf, Meta SaaS looks at all of your software-as-a-service subscriptions and tells you which ones you use and, more important, which ones you don’t.
Founded by Arlo Gilbert and Scott Hertel, the product raised $1.5 million in seed from Mark Cuban with participation from Barracuda Networks, Capital Factory, Deep Space Ventures and Brett Hurt of Bazaarvoice. Gilbert created the first VoIP platform for iOS, iCall, and Hertel worked in Dell’s e-commerce division.
They are supporting 10,000 employees at six customers – including RetailMeNot – and they are managing millions of SaaS apps.
“We are focused on the mid-market and larger companies, where the SaaS license management issue creates meaningful financial impact, to the tune of millions of dollars wasted per year. Most early stage competitors are focused on smaller customers,” said Hertel. “Many other competitors get their data through third parties such as Okta, which means they are limited to tracking logins and shackled to a single platform.”
Gilbert created the company after realizing that he had been paying way too much for SaaS.
“As I was closing down the office after the sale of iCall in 2012, I realized I had 40 licenses for Salesforce CRM but had never had more than 20 employees total,” he said.
The product manages “phantom IT” – namely the IT tools that someone bought and forgot about. While this one weird trick of selling and forgetting is great for SaaS providers it’s awful for businesses and Meta SaaS is one of the first providers to tackle the enterprise and large business space.
There’s been much talk of ICOs — initial coin offerings — amid the rising value of bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies like Ethereum. Now the industry is about to see its first ‘big name’ move into the space after Kik announced plans to introduce its own cryptocurrency via a token sale.
Messaging app Kik is particular popular among teens and young people in North America. Overall the eight-year-old company, which is based in Canada, claims 300 million registered users. Kik doesn’t break out how many of those are active any given month, but we do know that growth has slowed over the past year.
Kik isn’t just the most used service to venture into ICOs, it is also the highest financially backed company. It has raised over $120 million to date, and its most recent fundraising round in late 2015 valued its business at $1 billion.
Most of the interest around ICOs has centered around it being a process that allows companies to raise money independently of so-called professional investors — such as VC firms — since any individual holding the relevant cryptocurrency can invest. However, Kik is emphasizing that, beyond raising capital, it is turning to cryptocurrencies to develop its own ecosystem for digital goods and services.
“The broader motivation is that it is really hard for independent developers to compete with huge companies,” Kik CEO Ted Livingston told TechCrunch in an interview.
“On one side, you see digital services, on the other they are being owned and controlled by fewer companies because they are the only ones to monetize at scale using advertising. You try to sell things but you are trying to sell to consumers who think everything should be free.
“Even if a few companies can break through, the giants turn to copy and crush. We think this is leading to a future with less choice and freedom for consumers [and] for the first time ever we can present a potential solution to change all that.”
Taking on Facebook
Reading between the lines, it is clear that Livingston is referring to Facebook — the world’s largest social network that operates Messenger and WhatsApp, the two largest chat apps on the planet (based on userbase) which compete head on with Kik and others.
The reference to copying applies across the board, since Messenger and WhatsApp have adopted common industry features well after other chat apps, but it is particular true for Snapchat — which has had its feature set copied by Facebook, Instagram and WhatsApp to the point of absurdity.
Livingston and Kik’s audacious proposal is to free developers from needing to fit inside Facebook’s ecosystem — and its focus on advertising — by creating its own environment that is powered by a cryptocurrency.
Livingston illustrated his point with a personal anecdote about a developer he knows who, despite catering to 600,000 users with his app, is “completely broke.” That, he said, is because of the ‘culture of free’ which consumers have become accustomed to due to the advertising model that, he asserts, is perpetuated by Facebook.

Kik CEO Ted Livingston
Kinship
Kik’s proposed coin is called Kin — that is apparently short for ‘Kinship:’ or family/community — created on top of Ethereum an ERC20 token. Kik is in the early stages of drawing up a plan to launch it and integrate it into its app potentially as soon as early “the coming summer”. Kik didn’t say how much it aims to raise, but it plans to release 10 percent of the total coinage in the first sale.
Next year, Livingston revealed, Kin will open up to third party developers for use where he hopes it will find an audience willing for a different approach.
“Our ultimate vision is for Kik to be one of hundreds or thousands of digital services for Kin,” he explained. “What if we got all these developers to integrate Kin, then, as a consumer, I can earn and spend Kin inside all these places?”
It’s ambitious, but perhaps not entirely new. Kik introduced its own virtual currency — Kik Points — three years ago in its first effort to monetize its service. Livingston said that May 2014 launch and June 2016, Kik Points was used in three times more transactions than bitcoin itself — although that applies to the total number of transactions not volume processed, where bitcoin would be far ahead.
There’s a long way to go before this theory can be a working concept. Kik is still fleshing out its advisory team and, for now, the company declined to name partners it is working with.

A new kind of ecosystem
While most people are aware that a token sale (or ICO) is used to generate funds, but what is often less understood is that holders of the coins that are sold gain ownership of the means of production, or indeed the total output of the decentralized system. That is where Kik believes it can build an ecosystem that rewards developers financially without having to resort to advertising.
Livingston explained he envisages a daily pool of rewards for developers if Kin can become established. At a market cap of $500 million — meaning that the total number of Kin coins reaches a cumulative value of that figure — Livingston explained that somewhere in the region of $100,000 would be made available to developers working within the ecosystem on a daily basis.
“Developers would take a percentage of the daily reward in proportion to the number of transactions their service was responsible for,” the Kik CEO explained.
“This creates a reward engine, a beautiful network effect, where the bigger the daily reward, the more services come into the ecosystem, which drives up the daily reward and more digital services. Very quickly this could become a very powerful economic force to bring developers to,” Livingston added.
In its announcement, Kik highlighted potential monetization in sticker sales, hosted group chats, and bots. Telegram, another chat app, and Facebook both offer payment support for bots, and Livingston himself recently said that adding payment options can help bots reach their potential.
But, those cases aside, this is all very much theoretical at this point. Kik is making the first move after it released a whitepaper outlining the plans at kin.kik.com. It has also created the Kin Foundation, a non-profit organization that will be responsible for managing Kin and its ecosystem.
Finally, in a move that Livingston hopes will show this is not a gimmick, Kik said it will open source all of its client and server code to show its commitment to a decentralized system.
“I’ve been hoping for this for years now,” Livingston said. “We started thinking about it in 2011 — we can spark an entirely new ecosystem of digital services.”
“We believe cryptocurrency is the next important business model innovation in tech,” Fred Wilson, partner at Union Square Ventures and a member of the Kik board, added via a statement. “Kik will be the first mainstream application to integrate a cryptocurrency. This could be a watershed moment for the blockchain sector.”
At a time when even the most knowledgeable experts are divided on how ICOs and cryptocurrencies will develop, Kik is putting even more emphasis on the space. Time will tell how that turns out.

: Kik
Rocket Lab has made history today, launching an orbital-class rocket to space from a private launch facility for the first time ever. The launch took place at 16:23 NZST (9:23 PM PT) on Thursday, using one of Rocket Lab’s Electron rockets which took off from Rocket Lab Complex 1 in New Zealand.
While the launch got the rocket up in the air and on its way, the rocket itself didn’t make it all the way to orbit – Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck explained in a press release that things mostly went smoothly to that point, including the first stage burn, as well as fairing separation and second stage rocket ignition. The rocket made it to space, but it didn’t make it all the way to orbit, which was the goal, given Rocket Lab’s plan is to be able to offer commercial orbital launches to customers using its rockets and its private launch pad.

The purpose of the launches was to test, however, so even though the rocket didn’t make it all the way to orbit, it’ll give the team at Rocket Lab opportunity to find out what went wrong and hopefully correct the error in coming flights, with two more set to take place during this year. Eventually, Rocket Lab hopes to launch over 50 times per year when it achieves full commercial operation.
This test launch was delayed for three consecutive days after a launch window opened on May 21 due to weather, but conditions proved favorable on the fourth day of a total 10-day window. On the next try, which will take place sometime later this year, Rocket Labs says it hopes to successfully reach orbit, and to also load the rocket down with its maximum possible payload weight for testing purposes.
College is supposed to be a life-defining experience–but that doesn’t mean students always graduate with all the skills they need to build their lives. Paragon One, an online career coaching service and mentor marketplace, wants to fill in the gaps. The startup announced that it has raised $1.9 million in seed funding from Y Combinator, Foundation Capital, Learn Capital, University Ventures, Li Yuan Ventures, Altair Ventures, Jimmy Lai, the CFO of online English school 51Talk, and former Tencent CTO Jeff Xiong.
Paragon One, which took part in Y Combinator’s last batch of startups, works with all college students, but one of its biggest markets is students from China studying in the U.S. The site differentiates from other career coaching services with a recommendation engine that pairs students with mentors based on their backgrounds and personalities . That tech is key to Paragon One’s ability to grow and its seed funding will be put toward product development to make the system more scalable so it can handle more students.
The company was founded in 2015 by CEO Matt Wilkerson and CTO Byron Hsu, who met 15 years ago while studying engineering at MIT. They came up with the idea for Paragon One when a mutual friend who owned a test prep school in Shanghai started referring students to them for career advice.
“They were clueless about basic resume writing, how to interview, and it was really obvious to us that colleges and universities were doing nothing for them,” says Wilkerson. “I remembered back to college, that even though we went to a great school, we knew that we were completely lost by the time we graduated.”
During job interviews after graduation, Wilkerson realized he had a hard time nailing down exactly why he wanted to become an engineer even though he had majored in it. He ended up going into finance after college instead, while Hsu became an entrepreneur. The two started a mentorship organization at MIT to help students like them not only hone in on the right career, but also become competitive job candidates.
Matchmaking students, coaches and companies
Many of Paragon One’s students want to work in fields like data analysis, data science, consulting, market research, and software engineering. A coaching plan is developed after they take a career assessment and Paragon One’s recommendation engine matches them with professionals on the site’s marketplace, which currently has about 160 mentors (Wilkerson says there are 300 more waiting to join).
“Instead of the student picking who they want to talk to, we do it for them, so it’s an automated counselor laid over this marketplace, instead of the typical mentor marketplace, where you don’t know who is better or who is not good,” says Wilkerson.
Paragon One’s technology pairs students and professionals based on information like alma maters, college majors, hobbies and interests, and personality traits. They share career advice, help their mentees figure out what courses to take, and prepare them for interviews. After coaching, students are matched with interview opportunities from companies.
Paragon One works with smaller companies that, unlike Google or Goldman Sachs, don’t have their own internship and campus outreach programs. Companies participate for free, while coaches and professionals on its marketplace are paid per session (they can also chose to donate their fee to a charity).
The company’s network of coaches and companies builds on the connections Hsu and Wilkerson made while mentoring.
“Yes, there are alumni networks, but there was nothing holding students accountable for learning basic life skills,” Wilkerson says. “Think about the money you spend—$100,000 to $200,000—on colleges. But colleges think the end result is getting a degree and the truth is that most parents and students are looking at success as what they do after college.”
Parents whose offspring sign up for Paragon One are willing to spend plenty on their kids’ education and have probably already used other college prep services like Princeton Review or Kaplan. Wilkerson says the company usually requires a three-month subscription that costs about $2,000 to $3,000.
“The average parent won’t say I paid all this money for college, now let me shell out more money. Their assumption is that this should be taken care of, but more are realizing that the ROI on college is not really there,” says Wilkerson.

: JGI/Daniel Grill/Getty Images
A new wealth management startup called Prumentum Group is coming to market with a unique value proposition, looking to combine the technology chops of a roboadvisor with the human touch of a registered investment advisor. To do so, the company has built a tech platform, raised $25 million in funding, and acquired a minority stake in a financial advisory firm.
Over the last 18 months, the team behind Prumentum has been working on a dual-track strategy to provide a mix of technology and human advice that it hopes will be able to serve a larger portion of users than other financial advisory companies.
On the one hand, the company has been working on a tech platform called BrightPlan, which is set to compete with the likes of Wealthfront and Betterment in the robo-advisory game. That platform was built by a team comprised of former employees from Silicon Valley firms like Salesforce and Cisco.
Meanwhile, Prumentum acquired a minority stake in Plancorp, a registered investment advisory firm that already has $3.6 billion in assets under management. Serving high net worth individuals, families and institutions, Plancorp has decades of experience helping a diverse range of clients reach their financial goals.
According to Prumentum co-founder and CEO Marthin De Beer, the company has taken an initial 40 percent stake in Plancorp, with the option to purchase up to 100 percent of the company through an equity exchange later.
With both pieces in place, the company believes its tech platform will enable Plancorp to help many more wealth management clients than it previously would have been able to serve. At the same time, working with an established advisory firm will allow Brightplan to go beyond just rebalancing and optimizing investment accounts through technology and offer a deeper level of financial advice to its users.
“We’re taking the financial planning methodology Plancorp has been using for decades… now we can bring it to anyone regardless of their net worth,” De Beer told me by phone.
Prumentum was founded by De Beer, a former Cisco exec who had run the company’s video and collaboration business, along with serial entrepreneur Robert Wallace.
Together they self-funded the company before raising the cash it used to take their stake in Plancorp. But when it came time to raise its Series A, the company turned to family offices like The Cynosure Group and Fremont Group instead of raising from more traditional venture capital firms.
“We’ve been very fortunate in pulling together a unique set of investors that represent some of America’s most successful entrepreneurial families,” De Beer said.
He also noted that the investment horizon of family offices were more aligned with the type of business he was hoping to build, as opposed to VCs that would expect some sort of liquidity event in a decade or less.
While Prumentum is coming to market with a hybrid strategy, it’s not the only startup to determine that wealth management customers increasingly are looking for a mix of technology and human financial advice.
Earlier this year Betterment announced that it would begin making financial advisors available to its users as a complement to its robo-advisory service. Meanwhile SoFi, which got its start in lending, launched a wealth management service that combines low-fee individual and retirement accounts with personalized advice from non-commissioned, licensed financial advisors.
Complex indoor environments such as airports and shopping malls can be a nightmare to find your way around. And while Google is eyeing smartphones with 3D sensors as one potential fix for places GPS won’t accurately reach, another approach is to kit out an interior with lots of Bluetooth beacons — giving smartphone users located-locked pings to fix onto to know where they are.
The UK’s second busiest airport, Gatwick, has opted for the latter approach to power an indoor navigation system it’s launching as part of a wider, multi-year transformation program.
It’s now finished kitting out its two terminals with around 2,000 battery-powered beacons so that digital map users will get a more accurate blue dot as they wander around. The beacon system will also be used to power an augmented reality wayfinding tool (pictured above) — so that mobile users will be able to be guided to specific locations within the terminals via on-screen arrows. The beacon system is slated as supporting positioning with +/-3m accuracy.
Gatwick is planning to integrate indoor positioning into some of its apps, and says it’s in discussions with airlines to tap into it for their own apps and services — giving example of them being able to send push notifications to warn passengers if they’re running late, or even make a decision on whether or not to wait or offload luggage so an aircraft can take off on time.
Retailers and other third parties will also be able to use the system for proximity detection of potential shoppers and push marketing messages and offers — at least to those who have opted in to receive them.
Gatwick says it will not be collecting any personal data via the beacons but says “generic information on ‘people densities’ in different beacon zones” will be used to help improve airport operations — such as queue measurement, streamlining passenger flows and reducing congestion.
The airport has worked with UK startup Pointr on the system. As well as developing software and managing the system on an ongoing basis, Pointr is providing an SDK with support for 3D AR wayfinding to enable third parties to tap into the functionality.
Tanium hasn’t had the best year, but a new stock sale is telegraphing that while the company may be down, it’s far from out. This morning, the 10-year-old, Emeryville, Calif.-based company, whose technology enables organizations to continuously scan all endpoints in a network to detect vulnerabilities and unmanaged devices, is announcing it has raised $100 million led by the private equity firm TPG.
The deal assigns the company a post-money valuation of  $3.75 billion, meaning Tanium is essentially priced the same as when it last raised roughly $150 million from investors in 2015 at a post-money valuation of $3.65 billion.
Tanium’s CEO, Orion Hindawi, says the company has $300 million in cash and investor capital in the bank and that it didn’t need to raise money.
The company nevertheless “realized there was an opportunity to do a secondary [sale]” that could provide early employees and shareholders with some liquidity, while also getting heavy-hitting TPG involved in its future success, he says. “I want institutional investors on our cap table who can help [do an eventual public offering] right,” Hindawi explains.
Hindawi says that none of the outfit’s previous institutional investors — including its biggest outside shareholder, Andreessen Horowitz — are selling any of their shares and that the secondary sale instead involves “friends and family” shareholders.
He also claims that Tanium has already conducted secondary sales “multiple times” in the past to “lessen the pressure” on both employees as well as Tanium, which aims to go public on its own timeline.
Certainly, Tanium isn’t the first Silicon Valley outfit to allow early investors and employees to wring real money out of their paper holdings while making its way toward an initial public offering. Facebook, Twitter, Groupon, Pinterest, Zynga and Automattic are among many companies that have enabled employees and early investors to cash out of some of their privately held shares.
Companies typically negotiate secondaries from a position of strength, because their shares are desirable to outside investors. Indeed, Hindawi claims that Tanium’s revenue has been growing 100 percent year over year, and that it’s seeing 150 percent “net renewals. When [customers] pay us $1 one year, they pay us $1.50 the next, not because we charge more for the same thing, but because we keep adding value” by introducing new features on a monthly basis.
Still, with Tanium’s previous secondary sales conducted so quietly, it’s easy to wonder why the company is today choosing to broadcast its newest stock sale.
The answer seemingly traces in part to a string of high-profile departures at the company, some of them highlighted last month in a stinging article in Bloomberg that characterized Hindawi as egotistical, abusive to employees and a cheat who, according to Bloomberg’s sources, has “fired workers before they could cash in their stock options—a practice that had the effect of fortifying his control over the company.”
It wasn’t a good look for Hindawi, who quickly responded with an “open letter” in his own defense, and who today calls Bloomberg’s allegations “repulsive.”
Of accusations that he unfairly terminated employees, he says there is “no correlation between [employees’] vesting dates and when we separated,” and calls Bloomberg’s report “provably untrue.”
Specifically, he says, even before Bloomberg published its story, Tanium’s board “ran an investigation [with the help of a third party] because we take this stuff very seriously . . . They didn’t find a whiff [of malfeasance] but rather former employees who’d left because they weren’t a fit, because of an ethics issue, or for cause.”
Asked about nine senior executives who’ve left the company in the last nine months — including Tanium’s president, its former CMO and its former chief of operations and finance — Hindawi acknowledges that the culture can be hard-nosed, but dismisses the departures as growing pains.
“Tanium isn’t a cuddly environment. We’re not a cuddly product. We’re at war with a cyber environment that’s really unfriendly to our customers; they’re asking for a solution that protects them against that existential threat. I don’t apologize for bringing in the best people to do that.”
Hindawi somewhat famously started Tanium with his father, David Hindawi, who is the company’s executive chairman. The two had previously co-founded an earlier company, BigFix, which they sold to IBM in 2010.
Last month, shortly before Bloomberg published its story, Tanium — which now employs 550 people — hired Fazal Merchant from DreamWorks Animation to be its new operations and finance chief. Hindawi says an “incredible pipeline of people” continue to gravitate to the company.
“People assume there’s something behind” transition at the company, but “companies change as they experience hyper growth and their needs change,” says Hindawi. “It doesn’t mean that [employees who’ve left] aren’t great people. In many cases, I’ve [served as a reference for] them. But our goal isn’t to keep people; it’s to serve our customers. We owe it to the 550 families that depend on us to do a great job and build the best company we can.”
Institutional Venture Partners joined TPG in Tanium’s newest round of funding. IVP is among the company’s earlier backers, which, in addition to Andreessen Horowitz, also includes T. Rowe Price, Franklin Templeton Investments, Geodesic Capital and Citi Ventures. The company has now raised $407 million altogether.
In addition to Bloomberg’s story, Tanium was called out last month by The Wall Street Journal for not seeking the approval of one of its clients, El Camino Hospital in Santa Clara, Calif., whose internal network Tanium showed externally for several years to prospective new clients as a way of demonstrating the efficacy of its own software.
Perhaps unsurprisingly, Tanium publicly disputed the Journal’s characterization of how it presents information to clients during its sales pitches. It also acknowledge that it “should have done better, anonymizing that customer’s data.”
Photo of Orion Hindawi courtesy of Tanium.
Fresh from announcing the Mi 6, its latest flagship smartphone, last month, Xiaomi gone and unveiled another new phone. The Mi Max 2, announced today at an event in Beijing, will be available in China from June 1 priced upwards from RMB 1699, that’s around $247.
Xiaomi claims it sold over three million of the original Mi Max, which is headlined by its big screen. The main selling point of the second version is a gigantic 5300mAh battery which the company claims will last for two days per charge. It claims that the device can charge to 68 percent in an hour and that its full capacity will give a user up to 18 hours of watching video, or 57 hours of call time.
The Mi Max 2 packs a unibody metal design and comes it at the same 6.44-inch size. It is available with 4GB RAM with the option of 64GB or 128GB storage — that larger capacity option costs slightly more at RMB 1999, or approximately $290. The device packs a 12MP rear camera, with a five megapixel front camera, stereo speakers and a fingerprint sensor on the reverse. Under the hood, the party is powered by an octacore 2.0 GHz Qualcomm Snapdragon 625 chipset.



On the software side of things, the home-baked MI UI includes a one-handed mode — not unlike Apple’s reachability for larger iPhones — while a split screen version is planned soon to provide multi-tasking options.
There’s no word on an international launch date but, given the popularity of the original Mi Max, you can expect that there are plans to sell this new version outside of China soon.
The launch of the Mi Max comes right after Xiaomi unveiled its newest flagship, the Mi 6, last month. As we said at that launch, these are challenging times for the company — which investors valued at $45 billion as recently as 2014.
In 2016, rivals Huawei, Vivo and Oppo were among the challengers that rose up with competitively priced phones and strong offline distribution reach to knock Xiaomi off the number one perch for smartphone sales in China. Lei Jun has promised to bounce back and expand Xiaomi’s offline commerce efforts, while he intends to continue its ‘smart device’ ecosystem push to increase customer engagement and generate increased revenue. Indeed, the Xiaomi CEO recently likened his firm to U.S. retailer Costco rather than Apple, the latter being a common comparison made in previous years.
Note: The original version of this post misidentified the original Mi Max. It has since been corrected, apologies for any confusion.
Google’s AlphaGo AI has once again made the case that machines are now smarter than man — when it comes to games of strategy, at least.
AlphaGo made its name last year when it defeated high-profile Go player Lee Sedol 4-1, but now it has beaten the world’s best player of Go, the hugely complex ancient strategy game. Today, it won against Go world champion Ke Jie to clinch a second, decisive win of a three-part series that is taking place in China this week.
19-year-old Ke Jie narrowly lost the first time, but this time AlphaGo forced its Chinese opponent into conceding. That’s despite Ke Jie playing “perfectly” at the beginning of the tie, according to AlphaGo’s analysis.
“I’m putting my hand on my chest, because I thought I had a chance. I thought I was very close to winning the match in the middle of the game, but that might not have been what AlphaGo was thinking. I was very excited, I could feel my heart thumping!” he said in a post-tie press conference.
There’s still another game to be played, but, irrespective of that result, AlphaGo has defeated the man universally acknowledged to be the best player of man’s most complicated strategy game. That’s another milestone to chalk up — even though there’s been plenty of controversy because the live-stream can’t be viewed in China.


#AlphaGo wins game 2. What an amazing and complex game! Ke Jie pushed AlphaGo right to the limit.
— Demis Hassabis (@demishassabis) May 25, 2017



AlphaGo was created by London-based DeepMind, which was acquired by Google for around $500 million in 2014. Beyond winning showcase matches with the world’s top Go players, DeepMind believes its technology has practical and everyday uses that can “solve intelligence and make the world a better place.”
Things haven’t gone to panned out that way just yet. Instead, DeepMind has been mired by controversy. A data-sharing partnership with the UK’s National Health Service, initially heralded as having the potential to optimize medical care to reduce the number of preventable deaths, ran into issues when it was recently judged to have no lawful basis.
Critics have seized on the data transfer of 1.6 million patients’ medical records to the Google-owned company as part of the project. The original arrangement remains under investigation by the UK’s data protection watchdog, the ICO.

: Google
SoftBank, known for investing in ridesharing apps that aren’t Uber, has added another startup to its list. This time it’s a $100 million bet on 99, the largest ridesharing company in Brazil.
99 says this is an extension of a round for upwards of $100 million that it raised in January from Didi Chuxing, China’s biggest ridesharing app (and itself a SoftBank investment), and Riverwood. Softbank’s investment doubles its total to more than $200 million and also brings 99 deeper into an informal international alliance of ridesharing apps backed by SoftBank. In addition to Didi Chuxing, these include all of Uber’s major regional rivals: Lyft, India’s Ola, and Southeast Asia’s Grab.
For both SoftBank and Didi Chuxing, investing in 99 is a major step in deepening their presence around the world. Their support of 99 also makes Uber’s Latin American growth plans more complicated and represents another way that SoftBank and Didi Chuxing has thrown a wrench in their rival’s international strategy (after struggling to compete, Uber sold its China business to Didi Chuxing last year). Brazil is the world’s fifth-largest country with more than 200 million people and an emerging economy that, despite its current political unrest, remains an attractive target for investors.
99’s total funding so far is $225 million. Its other investors include Monashees, Qualcomm Ventures, and Tiger Global.
Its new funding from SoftBank will be spent on expanding its peer-to-peer ridesharing service, called 99POP, to more countries in Latin America. The company was founded in 2012 and currently claims more than 200,000 drivers and 14 million registered users on its platform.
In a prepared statement, David Thévenon, managing director at SoftBank, said “We see strong growth and a great outlook for the mobility solutions sector in Latin America. The 99 team has made impressive progress in Brazil, now operating in more than 400 cities and bringing positive changes to millions of users.”

: Hiroshi Higuchi/Getty Images
Acko is an under-the-radar startup that wants to disrupt India’s insurance industry through a digital-only model. This week it stuck its head above the parapet and announced that it has raised $30 million to get started on its bold plan.
Founded by Varun Dua, the man behind insurance comparison site Coverfox, Acko is designed as a wholly digital take on insurance in India. The company is an independent general insurance provider that is wholly digital. Beyond operating online and without the expense of a brick and mortar footprint, Acko is aiming to unbundle insurance in India to make it both more affordable and relevant to consumers.
“India is a fairly nascent insurance market [with the same] traditional carriers that we’ve seen for decades,” CEO Dua told TechCrunch in an interview. “Acko will be the first internet-only carrier.”
Taking insurance in India online
Inspired by models such as Lemonade and Oscar Health in the U.S. and Direct Line in the UK, Dua sees a huge opportunity to tap into digital to take a shot at the current market — which is estimated to be worth over $10 billion annually — and reach a new segment of consumers who have been left out to date.
“The system of distribution in India does not provide information on the user at all. There’s not enough data to underwrite accurately on a real-time basis,” Dua said. “Sales are mostly offline and flat pricing, usually [insurance firms] don’t know much about a customer before underwriting him.
The Acko CEO believes his firm can offer a 30-40 percent discount on incumbents by pricing its policies more accurately by gathering information and data online. That’s in addition to cost savings by operating without a physical presence.
“We will probably start off taking away existing [insurance rivals’] customers,” he added. “It’s a relatively easier market because people are moving online year on year. That gives us the early pickings, [but we] will probably be launching smaller and unique products that don’t exist today later.”
In particular, he foresees opportunity around segment-specific insurance policies that can be sold online. That could include, for example, pregnancy insurance, or policies for ride-sharing companies. Beyond selling on the Acko website, the plan is to link arms with partners who already have relationships with consumers — for example an e-commerce store selling baby items, or the ride-sharing firm itself.
In a recent report, EY forecast that India’s insurance market is “poised for a strong growth” despite concerns around reaching new customers:
Despite strong improvement in penetration and density in the last 10 years, India largely remains an under-penetrated market. The market today is primarily dependent on push, tax incentives and mandatory buying for sales. There is very little customer pull, which will come from growing financial awareness and increasing savings and disposable income.
That’s a major focus for Acko.
“We want to make insurance so straightforward that consumers don’t need to talk to multiple people to get advice or fill up forms. Consumers should be able to access low prices in one click based on their risk profile, and be confident that at a press of a button — their claim will get paid in the fastest possible time,” Dua added in a statement.
Big name backers and big plans
To get started, Acko has raised $30 million from a range of top names that include VC firms Accel, SAIF Partners and Catamaran Ventures. Its angel investors include Venk Krishnan and Subba Rao of NuVentures, Infosys co-founder Kris Gopalakrishnan, Hemendra Kothari of DSP Blackrock, founder and chairman of Hexaware Atul Nishar, and ex-investment baker and Arpwood Capital founder Rajeev Gupta.
Beyond that, Dua teased that there are undisclosed “global insurance groups” that own a stake of the business. Their names won’t be revealed for another month or so, but their presence has helped give the startup credibility in an industry that values corporate institutions.
Acko has received an R1 license and is currently awaiting its R2 license which has been applied for with India’s insurance authority. Dua anticipates that the final nod should come within three months, leaving the company ready to open its doors and launch products for consumers before the end of September this year.
The initial plan is to be active in three or four cities until Acko has shown that “the claims pieces is something we able to control and optimize,” according to Dua.
The team, which is currently around 20 people, is likely to grow to 45-50 by the year end, to help Dua hit his ambitious targets.
“We believe we should do close to $40 million in premiums over first year,” Dua said. “On a five-year perspective, we would love to reach anything from $500 million in premiums.”

: Komar/Shutterstock
After a long journey as a private company formed in the dot-com boom of 1999, Virginia-based Appian is finally braving the public markets.
Appian announced Wednesday they priced their IPO at $12 per share, raising $75 million for the company. This is in line with the previously proposed price range of $11 to $13.
Appian provides app development software for its business and government customers. “With our platform, organizations can rapidly and easily design, build and implement powerful, enterprise-grade custom applications through our intuitive, visual interface with little or no coding required,” the company explained in their S-1 filing. 
Appian acknowledges that its biggest competitors are Salesforce and ServiceNow. IBM and Oracle are also in related spaces.
The company’s revenue is growing. They brought in $132.9 million last year, compared to $111.2 million in 2015 and $89 million in 2014.
“Although we have experienced rapid revenue growth historically, we may not continue to grow as rapidly in the future and our revenue growth rates may decline,” Appian warned in the “risk factors” section of its IPO filing.
The company also incurred a loss of $12.5 million. Appian lost $7 million in 2015 and $17.1 million in 2014.
Founder and CEO Matt Calkins has a 54.7 percent stake. He founded the company at age 26.
Novak Biddle Venture Partners has the next largest stake, owning 21.5 percent prior to the offering. New Enterprise Associates (NEA) owns 11.7 percent.
Appian raised more than $47 million dating back to 2008, but just $10 million of this was for the company. NEA’s $37.5 million investment in 2014 was technically a secondary transaction, meaning that they bought the shares directly from employees.
The company reportedly was valued above $1 billion last year, colloquially known as a “unicorn.” The IPO values the company closer to $700 million.
Morgan Stanley, Goldman Sachs and Barclays are managing the offering. The company is listing on the Nasdaq.
The IPO window is widely considered to be open, but the month of May has been pretty dead for tech. Snap opened up a wave of tech IPOs, which carried through March and April. Companies tend to watch the performance of other debuts before braving the public markets.
The venture capital model is built around “exits,” also known as acquisitions and IPOs. These are the deals that fund the whole ecosystem. But the availability of late-stage capital has also meant that companies have been opting to stay private longer, because they can.
Today’s Stories 

DJI’s tiny new Spark drone is $499 and kind of a big deal
Unity, whose software powers half of all new mobile games, lands $400 million from Silver Lake
Tennis star Serena Williams joins SurveyMonkey’s board
SoftBank’s Nvidia stake is reportedly worth $4BN

Credits
Written by: Tito Hamze, John MannesEdited by: Gregory ManaloHosted by: Tito HamzeFilmed & Teleprompter: Joe Zolnoski
Notes:

I don’t know what to wear on Crunch Report (It’s a hard decision and I suck at dressing myself). If you are a startup and want to me to wear something mail me an XL T-shirt and I’ll wear it in an episode. I’m not going to mention the company on the shirt in the episode but it will be there. No offensive stuff, it’s totally at my discretion if I wear it. Mail it to me. Thanks <3 Ok, bye.

TechCrunch C/O Tito Hamze
410 Townsend street
Suite 100
San Francisco Ca. 94107
Have you ever taken a class at SoulCycle? Or better yet, Flywheel?
Spinning has turned out to be a big business, and there’s one brand that’s been gaining traction in the at-home fitness space. Peloton’s $2,000 bikes have developed a cult following, mainly because of its live-streamed classes, which are offered as an added subscription and can be displayed on the bike screen.
The price of the machines may seem steep, but investors are betting that this is a billion-dollar company. Wellington Management, Fidelity Investments, Kleiner Perkins and True Ventures led a $325 million Series E financing round, valuing the company at $1.25 billion. Other investors include GGV Capital and Comcast NBCUniversal.
“We are changing the way people engage in fitness,” said Peloton founder and CEO John Foley, in a statement. “This financing will allow us to expand our product and content offerings, open new showrooms across the country, and continue to innovate the experience we offer our members at every touchpoint.”
Noted Kleiner Perkins investor Mary Meeker was also quoted in the release about why she’s investing in the company. “Peloton is supporting especially broad subscriber engagement and growth. We believe Peloton is the leader in a new business that has significant potential, physical interactive media.”
I’ve taken a couple of Peloton classes at their New York studio and liked them. The high-energy instructors and the detailed metrics on the Peloton bikes were enough motivation for a productive workout.

Not everyone lives by a great spinning studio, so I can see how the at-home classes can be appealing. Peloton may be suitable for people who have the money and the space for the equipment. Once the upfront cost for the bike is paid, the class subscription is just $39 per month.
Hans Tung, managing partner of GGV Capital, told TechCrunch that they invested because they were “blown away by its stickiness, user retention and amazing user feedback.” It’s “off the charts.”
But competition or a new fitness craze could be roadblocks for Peloton. Flywheel recently announced that it plans to introduce bikes for the home.
And the high price point for the Peloton bikes will probably have to come down eventually, or their growth could slow. They will likely release updated versions, but it’s possible that they could run into the GoPro problem, where people don’t bother to upgrade.
Perhaps this is why the company recently launched its commercial business, and is selling bikes to gyms for $3,000 a pop. They say that the higher price is because these machines are able to endure more usage, but they’ve probably also found that some fitness studios are willing to shell out cash for upgrades.
This is a different kind of fitness hardware investment for the tech community. Most of the other bets had been on “wearable tech,” such as Fitbit.
Peloton is headquartered in New York and previously raised at least $119 million in financing since it was founded in 2012.

: Business Wire
Sony’s mammoth 13-inch Digital Paper tablet, essentially a huge Kindle you can write on, is still a pretty rare sight, but I’ve always had a soft spot for it. So I’m glad the company is doubling down on this unique device type and making some significant improvements with a new model.
The DPT-RP1 replaces the DPTS1 — catchy names, right? — and makes some changes that its users will certainly appreciate. The screen itself, built with E Ink’s Mobius display tech, has been upped from 1200×1600 to 1650×2200, which should make text considerably clearer (206 DPI — pretty good). The increased resolution doesn’t seem to have affected the battery life, though: like other e-paper displays, it’s super-long, at least a week or two.
The touchscreen layer has been improved, as well, and the texture of the surface; e-paper displays aren’t very responsive, so anything that can be done to improve that experience is welcome. This has presumably enabled the new note taking and annotation features the device has.
And, of course, the hardware itself has gotten a fresh coat of paint: it’s the same weight, but the design has been cleaned up and the bezels are slightly thinner.
New one on the left.
Gives it a nice minimal look, I think. You’ll just have to find another place to keep your stylus, though.
One thing that hasn’t changed is that these suckers are expensive. But at $700, the new Digital Paper tablet is still cheaper than its predecessor.
Convertible computers like the Surface series and upstart e-paper products like reMarkable are looking to eat Sony’s lunch, though. We’ll try to get our hands on one of these things and tell you whether you should have a couple around the office.
The problem with tiny robots, if there can really be said to be one, is that you can’t put enough stuff on them. Cameras and motors don’t shrink down very well, meaning if you want your robot to grab something, you’d better come up with a new way to see it and hold onto it. And that’s just what Finnish researchers have done with this bio-inspired, super-small gripper.
The researchers, from Tampere University of Technology, designed the gripper along the lines of the Venus flytrap, which waits patiently for something tasty to trigger its grip. In the flytrap, it’s little hairs that set things off, while in the gripper it’s light.
That’s because the whole thing is really just a strip of a special, light-sensitive liquid crystal elastomer. A strand of optical fiber pierces the center, and blue light is shone through it. When that light is reflected back by something nearby, it causes the strip to flex forward, gripping whatever that object is.
Its simplicity, low power requirements and flexibility make it ideal for micro-sized robots that need to grab small, fragile things, for instance crystals in an experiment or bundles of cells being cultured.
“We are currently investigating ways of making the elastomer even smarter,” said Arri Priimägi, who leads the research group. “The next thing we would like to teach our flytrap is color recognition.”
The team’s work appears in the latest issue of Nature Communications.

: Tampere University of Technology
Bulletin, the startup that describes itself as “WeWork for retail space,” is announcing that it has raised $2.2 million in seed funding.
The idea is to give businesses — particularly online brands — access to brick-and-mortar retail space without the cost or commitment of a traditional lease. Those businesses can rent sections of a Bulletin store on a month-to-month basis. Within that space, they get to decide which products get sold, the pricing and how they’re displayed.
The startup currently operates two locations, one each in New York’s SoHo and Williamsburg neighborhoods. The Williamsburg location was initially focused on home products, but it now houses Bulletin Broads, which co-founder and CEO Alana Branston said is selling “30 of our favorite female-run brands making products for and about women” — things like feminist T-shirts and pins and books.
Broads is run according to the same Bulletin model, where the brands rent space on a monthly basis and can also hold their own events, but co-founder and COO Ali Kriegsman said it allowed the startup to experiment with more of a “trending” approach, where the product lineup reflects the latest shifts in news and politics.
She said the result has been the Bulletin’s most successful store yet — and 10 percent of sales will be donated to Planned Parenthood of New York City.
“We’re able to create stores with timely, reactive content because of our flexible sharing model,” Branston added.

The seed round comes from Flybridge, Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers, Afore Capital, Tim Draper, Kevin Hale, Y Combinator (where Bulletin recently graduated as part of the winter class) and Liquid 2 Ventures. The money will fund Bulletin’s plans to open five new stores in the next nine months — three in New York, followed by two in Los Angeles.
Branston said Bulletin also plans to improve its technology, making it easier for brands to rent space and to track how their in-store sales are doing.

Related Articles
Looking further ahead, Branston said Bulletin represents a way for the retail industry to respond to the fact that “consumers have fundamentally changed the way that they’ve shopped.” In order to avoid predictions of a retail apocalypse, Branston said stores have to focus on experiences rather than products — it’s something she argued Apple is also doing by expanding the programming in Apple Stores.
In her view, that focus on experiences is “baked into” the Bulletin approach, which is all about an ever-changing, curated group of brands, and where those brands are throwing plenty of parties and other events.
“We want customers to look at us as the store where they go for experiences,” Branston said.

: Bulletin
Mercedes-Benz announced the price of its new electric 2017 Smart Fortwo: $23,800 for the hard-top coupe and $28,000 for the cabrio with a sliding canvas roof. The new coupe’s price is $1,200 less than the outgoing model, but the cabrio’s price is exactly the same.
Besides the price, there are some practical improvements for the new Fortwo EV. There are a few more batteries on board — 96 lithium-ion cells versus the old 93 — though the battery capacity stays the same at 17.6 kWh. The on-board charger is more powerful, so the charging time drops in half, to three hours or less. The range gets a little bump from 68 miles to 70-80 miles, enough for daily urban commutes.
The 2017 Smart Fortwo EV will be available in the United States this summer, but these tiny two-seaters have had a tough time finding a niche in America, the land of SUVs and wide roads. Parent company Daimler decided to discontinue sales of gasoline-powered Smart cars in the States this year to focus on the EVs. It also decided to stop using Smart cars in its Car2Go point-to-point car-sharing service, with Mercedes-Benz cars replacing fleets in the U.S. beginning in 2017.
Smart doesn’t intend to compete with SUVs and pickup trucks, so who is the competition? The Tesla Model 3, the forthcoming small (but not micro) car, will have a 215-mile range for $35,000. The Chevy Bolt starts at $37,500 and has a range of more than 200 miles. The Volkswagen e-Golf gets 83 miles per charge, which is similar to the Fortwo’s range, but it starts at about $29,000 before tax incentives are applied. The new Hyundai Ioniq has more miles per charge, at 124, but its price starts at $29,500.
So for shorter-range emissions-free commuting and errand-running, the Smart Fortwo is an inexpensive option. But for carrying more than two people — or if you have a near-crippling case of range anxiety — you’ll need to pay more for one of the other EVs.

: Mercedes-Benz
Twitter launched a version of its service on Apple TV and other media player platforms last fall in order to deliver its live video content to the big screen. Today, the company is updating its Apple TV app with a couple of new features, including support for Periscope’s Global Map and the ability to watch live 360 degree videos.
The company notes that, with this launch, Twitter is the first Apple TV app to support live 360 degree video.
To try out the new feature, Apple TV owners will use the Siri remote to move around the video to view its content from different angles, offering a more immersive look into the scene.
To date, Twitter’s TV applications – which are also now available on Fire TV, Xbox One and, most recently, Roku – have been designed to feature Twitter’s live video content, much of it coming from the company’s numerous content deals. For example, Twitter earlier this month announced a series of new live shows, including those from the WNBA, BuzzFeed, Viacom, Live Nation, and others. With the additions, Twitter met its goal of being able to offer users live video 24 hours a day.
However, live video content on Twitter doesn’t just come from Twitter’s premium partnerships – there’s also user-generated video to explore, streamed through its Periscope app or directly from users’ tweets. The company says that during the first quarter of 2017, there were 77 million hours of live user-generated video broadcast on Twitter.
To stream live in 360 degrees, Periscope users can take advantage of tools like Periscope Producer, which works with the Ricoh Theta S or the Orah 4i; or they can use attachable smartphone cameras like the Insta360 Nano for iOS devices, or the Insta360 Air.
Apple TV users can also now explore the added Periscope map to find other user-generated content from around the world, including both 360 degree live videos and otherwise.


👀 🔄 📺
Watch more of what’s happening with live 360 video and the @PeriscopeCo Global Map! Update to the latest Twitter app on Apple TV. pic.twitter.com/d7McVu1g0z
— Twitter (@Twitter) May 24, 2017



These new features are rolling out now to Apple TV devices through the Twitter app update.
However, the updated Apple TV app isn’t the only upgrade arriving today. Some users are seeing a new option to connect their Twitter app with Apple TV via the app’s Settings. Enabling this allows you see your Twitter account on the Apple TV.


Twitter on iOS now has Apple TV integration settings pic.twitter.com/emYPWZWAYp
— Matt Navarra ⭐️ (@MattNavarra) May 24, 2017



Asked for more information about this feature, Twitter declined to comment.
You can hear the champagne corks popping here in Seattle as Boeing is awarded the contract to make DARPA’s cool experimental spaceplane. The company was competing with Northrop Grumman and Masten Space Systems to design the craft.
The XS-1, as it’s called, would allow for relatively cheap and simple trips to space for launching and testing satellites and all that sort of thing. The goal is to get costs down to as little as $5 million per launch all told, and be able to fly at least 10 times a year.
It’s meant to be a fusion of all the high-tech stuff from NASA, the Air Force and private sector aerospace, like lightweight cryogenic propellant tanks and super-strong and durable composite wings that can handle re-entry temperatures. It should be able to go at speeds up to Mach 10, and deliver payloads weighing up to 3,000 pounds to low-Earth orbit.
As is the usual case for these multi-million-dollar super-high-tech programs, there’s a demonstration video that looks like it was put together by a middle-schooler in 2005:

“We’re very pleased with Boeing’s progress on the XS-1 through Phase 1 of the program and look forward to continuing our close collaboration in this newly funded progression to Phases 2 and 3—fabrication and flight,” said DARPA program manager Jess Sponable in a news release.
This second phase of the design process goes through 2019, during which time the design will be finalized and the propulsion system (a modified Space Shuttle engine) tested thoroughly. After that, a dozen flight tests are scheduled for 2020. The final trial will be to fly 10 times over 10 days going at least Mach 5.
You can follow the project’s updates and view more details on the testing and capabilities over at DARPA’s website.
International tourism to the U.S. is down, according to Foursquare location data.
Using data from 13 million users (who have opted in to always-on location trails), Foursquare can examine who walks in and out of 93 million public places across the globe. According to the firm, the U.S. market share of international tourism started to drop in October 2016, falling by 6 percent year-over-year. It has steadily dropped since, sinking as low as -16 percent in March 2017.
From October 2016 (the start of the decline) to March 2017, average decrease in U.S. tourism market share was 11 percent YOY. Foursquare says there is no sign of imminent recovery.

These statistics represent ‘market share’ and not absolute figures. In other words, it examines the U.S. as a destination versus the rest of the world as a destination. It’s also worth noting that Foursquare was specifically looking at foot traffic associated with leisure travel and business travel, focusing more on stops made at venues (convention centers, restaurants, museums, stores, etc.) by folks who are visiting from abroad, instead of looking at hotel and airport data.
There are some obvious reasons for this and other not-so-obvious reasons.
To start, however, we can’t ignore the election of Donald Trump, which came with divisive rhetoric during the election and attempts to forge equally divisive policies after taking office. The travel ban, policies on ‘extreme vetting’ at airports, etc. have made the U.S. seem like a less welcoming place, and the effect it’s had on the tourism industry is evident.
Of course, there are other factors that may have contributed to the decline in tourism share, such as the growing strength of the dollar (making U.S. travel more expensive) or the weakening euro (making Europe more financially attractive as a destination).
Still, the U.S. is losing tourist activity to foreign destinations, and business travel in the U.S. is also suffering. Although Foursquare reports that business travel is up 3 percent in the U.S. YOY, that is below the trend line for other world destinations, which is closer to 10 percent growth.
Foursquare also found that residents of the Middle East and Central/South America are visiting the U.S. less frequently than those from Asia and Europe, which may have something to do with Trump’s travel ban, border wall, and other policy issues like electronics bans on flights.
The major takeaway:
While international travelers generally make up 10.7 percent of visits to Foursquare’s leisure categories, it estimates the decrease in tourism over the last six months could result in a 1-2 percent drop in YOY sales for U.S. retailers. And the hospitality industry is sure to feel that hit much harder.

: Gary Hershorn/Getty Images
Imzy, the kinder, gentler online community platform, will be shutting down on June 23rd.
Company co-founder Dan McComas made the announcement in a blog post today, stating his apologies and explaining to the community Imzy just couldn’t find its place in the market:
Some of you have been here since our launch into beta and some are brand new. We’ve loved getting to know all of you and seeing you build communities and make new friends. Unfortunately, we were not able to find our place in the market. We still feel that the internet deserves better and hope that we see more teams take on this challenge in the future.
McComas and his partner Jessica Moreno left their jobs at Reddit and headed to Salt Lake City, Utah in the summer of 2015 to launch their idea for a more inclusive social board.
Imzy opened the platform to the public last fall and has since grown to tens of thousands of users with more than 6,000 Imzy communities. It was using the same kinds of threaded comments as found on a site like Reddit, but started out with basic rules on how people should treat each other instead of the haphazard way Reddit allowed certain more unsavory trolls to run rampant on its site at the time.
But it turns out that wasn’t something a lot of people were into, and now Imzy has to close up shop on its idealistic experiment in being nice on the internet.
On the bright side, McComas said users’ data would be protected and gave them a link to where they could request their data. He also mentioned the /Imzy community board would be open to allow everyone to post. “This seems like a good place for us to gather, share memories, and say our goodbyes,” he said.
Imzy had raised a total of $11 million, $8 million of which came in the fall of 2016. According to a source, the co-founders only recently came to the decision to shut down and wanted to do so with plenty of cash still in the bank — so they may have something else in the works. We’ve reached out to ask and will let you know if and when we hear back about that.
This is shocking news to us here at TechCrunch as we just visited the Imzy team a few months ago as part of our foray into Utah’s startup scene. You can see that interview with Moreno below:
Tech companies, and increasingly even non-tech companies, are struggling with the fact that there are not enough trained data scientists to fill market demand. Every company has their own strategy for hiring and training, but Airbnb has taken things a step further — running its own university-style program, complete with a custom course-numbering system.
Data University is Airbnb’s attempt to make its entire workforce more data literate. Traditional online programs like Coursera and Udacity just weren’t getting the job done because they were not tailored to Airbnb’s internal data and tools. So the company decided to design a bunch of courses of its own around three levels of instruction for different employee needs.
100-level classes on data-informed decision making have been designed to be applicable to all teams, including human resources and business development.
Middle-tier classes on SQL and Superset have enabled some non-technical employees to take on roles as project managers, and more intensive courses on Python and machine learning have helped engineers brush up on necessary skills for projects.
Since launching the program in Q3 2016, Airbnb has seen the weekly active users of its internal data science tools rise from 30 to 45 percent. A total of 500 Airbnb employees have taken at least one class — and Airbnb has yet to expand the program to all 22 of its offices.
Interestingly, Airbnb says it tried four times to build and scale a data science education program. Jeff Feng, product manager on the analytics and experimentation team, told me in an interview that there were three best-practices that really enabled this iteration to work:

Designing an accessible curriculum for everyone
Working with leadership across the company to set data literacy expectations
Finding ways to measure success

Feng hopes that other companies will adopt similar practices when designing their own internal data science courses. The program seems to take a page from Google’s internal classes that helped it differentiate back in the day. Google’s version includes both technical and non-technical courses, ranging from data visualization to beekeeping.
Airbnb rolled out its intro data science classes first, making a statement that the program was about more than just engineers, though the more technically inclined will be getting additional higher-level classes moving forward.
Attention, startups. The day you’ve been waiting for has finally arrived!
We’re stoked to announce that registration is now open for startups looking to display in Startup Alley or Hardware Alley at Disrupt SF 2017. To kick off the festivities, we’re launching a special extra early-bird offer that you’ll definitely want to take advantage of.
For a limited time, we’re throwing in an extra Disrupt ticket to startups that purchase tickets in advance, meaning you’ll get three tickets for the price of two.
You can get your ticket package here for $1,995. That ticket package gets you one full day of exhibition in either Startup Alley or Hardware Alley, plus three full tickets to the Disrupt conference.
But why should you participate in the Alley, you ask? Simply put, the Alley is perhaps the best way to get your startup out there in front of the people who matter in the industry. Startups that displayed in the Alley at Disrupt NY 2016 raised more than $35 million in seed and Series A funding post-Disrupt, with $4 million of that raised in just the first three months, according to Crunchbase.
In addition to the possibility of raising some needed funding, Startup Alley companies have the opportunity to win the chance to participate in the illustrious Startup Battlefield competition.
On each day of Disrupt, attendees will vote for their favorite Startup Alley company. The startup that gets the most votes wins a wildcard entry into the Battlefield, where they’ll get the chance to pitch our panel of judges in the hopes of winning the coveted Disrupt Cup and the $50,000 grand prize.
Even if you don’t win the wildcard, you’ll still make some pretty solid connections that could help take your startup to the next level. And you and two of your colleagues will get full access to everything that makes Disrupt great on the days you’re not hard at work displaying in the Alley.
We’d call that a win-win.
Of course, you won’t get to do any of it unless you have a ticket. And, because you’re totally going to get a ticket anyway, you might as well take advantage of our extra early-bird offer of three for the price of two.
So be sure to get your tickets now. You can get them here.
Disrupt SF 2017 takes place September 18-20 at Pier 48 in San Francisco. We can’t wait to see you there.




Our sponsors help make Disrupt happen. If you are interested in learning more about sponsorship opportunities, please contact our sponsorship team at sponsors@techcrunch.com.
Rackspace today announced that its board has appointed Joe Eazor as its new CEO, effective June 12. Eazor will replace Rackspace president Jeff Cotten, who stepped in as the company’s interim CEO after former CEO Taylor Rhodes left the company about three weeks ago.
At the time, Rhodes said he left Rackspace to become “the CEO of a smaller private company.” That company, we now know, was the Chicago-based property management firm SMS Assist.
In a moment of unusual frankness — especially in this kind of context — interim CEO Cotten, who became Rackspace’s president in January, acknowledged that he had hoped to become the full-time CEO himself. “I don’t mind telling you that when I was named interim CEO of Rackspace a few weeks ago, I was hoping that I would be able to shed the first word of that title and serve as the long-term chief executive at the company that I love,” he wrote. “But my attitude was that if our board of directors could find someone better — someone with more relevant experience; someone I could learn from and collaborate with, I would be all for it. And that’s exactly what the board has done.”
Eazor joins Rackspace after stints at EarthLink, where he worked on moving the company from its focus on dial-up internet many moons ago to a new focus on cloud networking. Before that, he was at EMC, HP and EDS. Among other things, he led EDS’s Asia Pacific business and offshoring operations.
“I’m excited by the huge market opportunity that Rackspace has, as companies move out of their corporate data centers and into multiple clouds,” said Eazor in today’s announcement. “Rackspace is uniquely well positioned to take advantage of this trend, as the only provider who can deliver expertise and exceptional customer service for all the leading public and private clouds, along with managed hosting. Thanks to the strategy Rackspace adopted a few years ago, it’s got the early lead in the managed cloud space. My goal here is to build on that foundation and make us the world’s preeminent IT-services company.”
If art is a window into the soul, what does art discover when it peers deep into the inner workings of a robot?
In this installment of Judah vs. the Machines, actor Judah Friedlander tests his art skills against a robot designed to make visually appealing art in different artistic styles.
Friedlander met with Alex Reben, a robotics designer in Berkeley, Calif., who built a robot that can take images and recreate them with unique flairs. The robotic creation, called SeuratBot in honor of the French post-Impressionist painter, may not be pouring its heart and soul into the artwork it creates, but its technical skills make it a formidable competitor for Judah — who is obviously very passionate about the finer things.
Before jumping into a competition of artistic prowess, Friedlander took a tour of Reben’s home, or, as he saw it, the “haunted robo-mansion.” The place is filled with a bunch of weird zany knife-wielding robots and all-around weird things that seem very on-brand for Berkeley.
The art challenge was a doozy. With a model sitting in front of them, Judah and SeuratBot were forced to quickly sketch a portrait of her. After Reben gave SeuratBot a photo to work with, he instructed it to create a portrait in the style of pointillism.
A bona fide art critic was brought in to judge the art and, staying true to style, he was more impressed by the emotion embodied in Judah’s work than the cold unfeeling photorealism of SeuratBot’s attempt. Though the robot may just be a glorified printer mixed with some fancy photo filters, aren’t we all just printers operating off pre-conceived notions birthed from stimuli we can’t control?
Check out the video above for some more insight on art, AI and why Isaac Asimov didn’t know what the hell he was talking about.
See all eight episodes of Judah vs. the Machines here.
Using stickers to decorate your photos is a common feature found in social apps like Snapchat, Instagram, Facebook, Twitter, and others. But today, stickers have started showing up in a more surprising place: Amazon’s mobile app. Following a recent update, Amazon has added support for stickers within its iOS app’s camera feed – the feature that allows you to search for products on its site by viewing real-world objects through your phone’s camera.
This is an odd, but interesting move by the company, which has been upgrading its flagship mobile application to offer more than just traditional shopping in recent months.
For example, Amazon integrated its virtual assistant Alexa into its app this March, allowing consumers to play music while they shop, ask questions, check the news and weather, control their smart home, and more. It also launched “Outfit Compare” in its shopping app around the same time – ahead of the launch of its Echo Look smart device, whose own companion app offers the same “fashion advice” feature.
Stickers integration, however, makes less sense.
While meant as another means of encouraging product discovery, it’s not clear how Amazon intends this feature to be used.

Amazon, after all, is not a social app – it’s a retailer. And the camera feature it offers is meant to be an alternative way of kicking off a product search, not a tool to take personal photos to share with friends. Today, in addition to scanning a barcode or typing in a search term, Amazon’s app can also identify objects through the camera, then suggest related products, similar to Pinterest and Google’s visual search products.
To use Amazon’s new stickers, you’ll still launch the camera as usual by tapping the camera icon next to the search box on the Amazon app’s home screen.
You’ll then see a new “Amazon Stickers” button on the bottom left of the screen, next to the camera app’s other features like Package X-Ray (scanning an Amazon package’s barcode to see what’s inside), uploading a photo, or viewing your search history.

 

The stickers themselves are organized into various categories, like “Top Picks,” “Fun,” “Home,” “Pets,” “Women’s,” “Gadgets,” and more. There are also curated collections like “Gold,” “Legos,” “Wood,” “Workspace,” and others.
If these stickers or those categories look familiar, it’s because they’re being pulled from Amazon’s “Interesting Finds” online shop. Launched last year, “Interesting Finds” offers a curated product discovery experience on Amazon, similar to the shopping service from the startup Canopy. Advertised today via a homepage banner, “Interesting Finds” is sort of like Amazon’s Pinterest – it gives you a way to browse the site to find fun items you might like, follow collections, and save items to your favorites.
The stickers mirror the styles used by “Interesting Finds,” and link to the same recommended products.



With the camera feed live, you can browse through the categories and tap to add stickers to the scene in front of you. Because there’s no selfie camera support, you can’t really virtually try on clothing with the feature, but you could perhaps use stickers to see how a home décor product would look in your room.
But the style of the stickers themselves – with their cartoonish, white jagged edges – doesn’t make this AR-like functionality all that practical in terms of visualizing your potential redecorations. (At least, not compared with more serious attempts at AR for shopping like Wayfair’s “View in Room” feature, for example.)
In addition, you can tap on the “i” (information) button on the stickers themselves to be taken to the product detail page.
You can also add multiple stickers to a single photo, resize them, delete them, then save the resulting image to your Camera Roll or share to social networks.


As if there weren't enough stickers in all the places, now @Amazon's iOS app has'em too! And they're shoppable products!! /tip @Techmeme pic.twitter.com/S2w32kd2XW
— Chris Messina 🦅 (@chrismessina) May 23, 2017



Chris Messina first spotted the stickers in the app yesterday, following the iOS update. But it appears that the feature was being trialed earlier this month, according to tweets from what appears to be an Amazon test account.
Amazon has yet to respond to requests for comment about the launch.
Currently, we’re seeing Amazon Stickers on iOS only, not Android.
Robo-advisor Wealthfront originally came to market with a product to automate retirement savings, but over time has expanded to provide other financial tools. Today, the company is announcing a new product aimed at helping parents save for their children’s college education.
Wealthfront’s college savings tool is launching as part of Path, the company’s automated financial planning app launched earlier this year.
With Path, users are able to connect all of their bank, credit card, mortgage and other accounts and get a holistic view of their financial health. It was created to help users see where they’re money is going and find ways for them to save more toward retirement.
But, of course, Wealthfront recognizes that building a retirement nest egg is just one goal for its users. There are other major life events they have to prepare for, and college tuition is just one of them.
For users who have children — or want them — Path provides a way to easily set up and contribute to a cost-effective 529 investment account. Designed to provide tax advantages for college savings, 529 accounts provide tax-free withdrawals for tuition, books and other education-related expenses.
Path walks users through the process of setting up an account and projecting the future cost of college. Users can select schools they would like their progeny to attend, and the app provides an estimated breakdown of costs however many years in advance. It also calculates expected financial aid, based on a user’s income and finances. Once all that’s calculated, Path gets users to set up an automated savings plan to reach their goals.
While other robo-advisors are trying to provide a more high-touch experience by bringing on personal financial advisors, Wealthfront is doubling down on its plans to use software to automate its users finances. With retirement and college savings as part of its suite of products, we will likely see other tools and use cases arise from Wealthfront and its Path app.
You’re vulnerable to bias and polarization if you only get your news from one source. So instead of highlighting a single news outlet when you click through to a Trending topic, Facebook will now show a carousel of the other most popular articles written about the subject by different publishers.
Meanwhile, Facebook is giving more exposure to Trending Topics on mobile. Rather than only show Trending topics in the drop-down when you go to search for something on Facebook’s mobile app, the company will test showing a box with the top three current Trending topics inside the News Feed. This way people will more likely discover Trending content on mobile when previously it was buried in an unintuitive spot.

Facebook tells TechCrunch that the Trending sources carousel isn’t personalized to purposefully show you publishers you don’t follow or that might have a contrasting view point to what you typically click and share. But by swiping through to different news sources that you don’t follow, the company says it could show you different view points on the same topic.
Of course that could backfire by showing you more biased sources than you’d normally read. Not every fact needs an “alternative” take. That can lead to misguided hot takes and senseless contrarianism. Facebook will have to keep an algorithmic eye on what publishers it shows in these carousels.
Since Trump was elected, Facebook has been criticized for widening the political divide in America. Instead of more generalist media, the News Feed allows people to create their own newspaper from the sources they prefer. But if someone is lured into following biased or sensational sources, and surrounds themselves with friends who do the same along the same political pole, they can have misinformed views reinforced.
Facebook tests a way to follow topics rather than specific publishers
Mark Zuckerberg likes to cite a study by Facebook from 2015 that showed 23 percent of users’ friends are of the opposite political affiliation, while almost 29 percent of stories in the News Feed display views that disagree with a user’s ideology. But having 70%+ of your feed stoking your existing beliefs can still be problematic. In Zuckerberg’s humanitarian manifesto, he wrote that one solution was “to show a range of perspectives, let people see where their views are on a spectrum and come to a conclusion on what they think is right.”
Facebook recently tried another approach to deflating these filter bubbles by letting people follow a topic and then see posts from a variety of publishers about it instead of just following individual publishers. Today’s update furthers that effort. Even if Facebook doesn’t truly believe filter bubbles are a massive problem, it needs the News Feed to be perceived as a positive fountainhead of information to stay at the center of people’s web browsing habits.
Serena Williams (yes, THAT Serena Williams) has joined the board of consumer survey startup SurveyMonkey, along with Intuit CEO Brad Smith.
This is the tennis superstar’s first venture into Silicon Valley and, according to a SurveyMonkey spokesperson, came about at the suggestion of fellow board member and Facebook’s chief operating officer Sheryl Sandberg.
Sandberg joined the board last summer after suffering the loss of her husband Dave Goldberg, who had been the company’s CEO before he unexpectedly passed away.
It’s easy to make the connection to the Valley through William’s fiancé and Reddit co-founder Alexis Ohanian. However, Sandberg and her husband had been longtime friends of Williams and SurveyMonkey was looking to change things up on the board.
Williams’ “voice on the board sends a strong message to our company, investors, and the industry,” said SurveyMonkey’s current CEO Zander Lurie. “We want change agents at our table.”
According to Fortune, Lurie and Williams started talking about the possibility of working together after meeting up at a dinner party at Sandberg’s house last fall. “Everything just came together easily,” Williams told the magazine.
Aside from being one of the top tennis players in the world and the highest paid female athlete, banking $77.6 million in her career from prize money so far, Williams has also launched several businesses around her extraordinary tennis achievements. She once had a special line with Puma and inked endorsement deals with Nike and J.P. Morgan Chase. She also has her own apparel line called Aneres (her name spelled backwards) and launched her own collection of handbags and jewelry on the Home Shopping Network (HSN).
Williams sees an opportunity to put those achievements to good use in the tech world, as well. “As a business professional, I’m constantly asking questions. I want to hear the positive and the negative to figure out where I can improve,” she told TechCrunch in a statement. “Like SurveyMonkey, I’m driven to ask what’s happening, and why. We also share a fierce commitment to letting all voices be heard.”
SurveyMonkey, which competes with online survey startup Qualtrics, gathers customer feedback from online surveys and, according to Fortune, the majority of Fortune 500 companies use the service to gain insights. But survey data depends on the types of questions asked and knowing what to ask. That unique insight can be hard to get in a room full of the same types of people.
Note also, Silicon Valley doesn’t have a great track record with women or diversity so far. Williams is a great get for the company’s board as she is able to add that fresh (and needed) voice, along with her outstanding career track record to help shape SurveyMonkey’s future.
Additional reporting by Ingrid Lunden.
Microservices, that is, breaking larger applications into small parts that communicate over APIs, is increasingly becoming the architectural style of choice for many developers (especially when coupled with containers). Managing this fleet of services introduces its own set of challenges, though. To help developers and DevOps professionals manage and secure their microservice-based applications, Google, IBM and Lyft today announced Istio, a new open platform that allows you to create a network of deployed services, and which includes tools for load balancing, service-to-service authentication and monitoring, among others.
It can do all of this without requiring any changes to the actual applications. That’s because Istio sits at the network level and uses a proxy to intercept all network communication between your microservices. At its core, Istio uses the Envoy proxy (which was developed by Lyft) and its built-in service discovery and load balancing tools, among other things.
“As monolithic applications are decomposed into microservices, software teams have to worry about the challenges inherent in integrating services in distributed systems: they must account for service discovery, load balancing, fault tolerance, end-to-end monitoring, dynamic routing for feature experimentation, and perhaps most important of all, compliance and security,” the Istio team explains. “Inconsistent attempts at solving these challenges, cobbled together from libraries, scripts and Stack Overflow snippets leads to solutions that vary wildly across languages and runtimes, have poor observability characteristics and can often end up compromising security.”
A company could standardize on a single library for managing the communication between services, but the team argues that that’s unlikely to happen, would leave out existing services and reduce flexibility.

Istio essentially provides developers with a single service mesh that provides the monitoring services to then implement the necessary load balancing, flow-control and security policies they need to keep their applications running even if the network isn’t reliable. Istio also allows developers to authenticate and secure the communications between different applications using a TLS connection (which means the developer doesn’t have to manage certificates, for example).
Given the fact that Google is involved, it probably doesn’t come as a surprise that Istio currently only supports the Kubernetes container orchestration service, though the plan is to support other environments in the future. The overall idea is to allow Istio to span various environments, no matter whether that’s a public cloud Kubernetes or Mesos, for example. Google also plans to bring Istio support to Cloud Endpoints and its Apigee API management platform (which it acquired for $625 million last year).
It’s worth noting that this isn’t all that different from linkerd, a similar project that is now part of the Cloud Native Computing Foundation, the home of the Kubernetes project. Linkerd already offers support for Docker and Mesosphere’s DC/OS, among others, though.


: Claudius Paul / EyeEm/Getty Images
At today’s media event in NYC, DJI announced its new Spark drone, destined for the entry-level market as an everyday portable solution for capturing aerial footage. To go with your shiny new Spark, DJI is releasing a new iOS control app, dubbed GO 4.
The new app features a new set of four automated flight modes, which allow you or I to pull off advanced flight maneuvers that would otherwise wreck a $499 toy. The GO4 app starts you off with ActiveTrack, allowing the Spark to focus on any moving subject within the frame; Pano, an automated stitching software tool that allows you to capture panoramas; ShallowFocus, an exaggerated depth of field shot; TapFly which hovers and tracks a target and finally, the Gesture mode which allows you to use simply hand gestures to take selfie shots or videos.

DJI is obviously including photo/video filters within GO 4, automated editing and exporting/uploading to YouTube, Instagram, Twitter or Facebook and other social networks.
All of Spark’s flight modes include full flight autonomy, thanks to a sensor cocktail of GPS/GLONASS, a 3D sensing system and what DJI is marketing as a vision positioning system for in-flight stability.
An SDK is also available for the Spark platform, which includes a partnership with Epson, including coding while using drones, or for use with the first-person view goggles, allowing developers to get a bit more creative with flight modes or capture features.
The DJI Spark drone is available for pre-order now starting at $499, with an expected shipping date on June 15th.
An impressive new exploit gives hackers the ability to control your desktop through malware spread by fake movie subtitles. The exploit, which essentially dumps the malware onto your desktop and then notifies the attacker, affects users of video players like Popcorn Time and VLC.
Checkpoint found that malformed subtitle files can give hackers the ability to embed code into subtitle files popular with pirated movies and TV. Because these subtitles are usually trusted by video players and users alike they were an oft-overlooked vector for hack attacks.

￼Our research reveals a new possible attack vector, using a completely overlooked technique in which the cyberattack is delivered when movie subtitles are loaded by the user’s media player. These subtitles repositories are, in practice, treated as a trusted source by the user or media player; our research also reveals that those repositories can be manipulated and be made to award the attacker’s malicious subtitles a high score, which results in those specific subtitles being served to the user. This method requires little or no deliberate action on the part of the user, making it all the more dangerous.
Unlike traditional attack vectors, which security firms and users are widely aware of, movie subtitles are perceived as nothing more than benign text files.

If you’re using Popcorn Time – and you know you shouldn’t be – you can download a fix here. Otherwise VLC, Kodi, and Stremio should be patched automatically. In the demo below we see the subtitles essentially activating a TinyVNC connection with the attacker’s machine, allowing full access for the desktop. It’s a pretty steep price to pay just to watch Logan Noir.


: Bryce Durbin/TechCrunch
In the age of social media, you’re only as good as your last like, and today a startup has raised a sizeable round of funding banking that the same maxim applies to software. G2 Crowd — a Chicago-based company that has built a platform for crowdsourcing enterprise software reviews to help others make decisions on what to use and buy — is today announcing that it has raised $30 million in funding at an undisclosed valuation, bringing the total raised to over $45 million.
The Series B round was led by Accel, with participation from Pritzker Group Venture Capital and G2 Crowd’s founders Tim Handorf, Mark Myers, Matt Gorniak, Mike Wheeler and Godard Abel (who founded BigMachines previously and sold it to Oracle for $400 million). And, perhaps most uniquely, the investor group includes LinkedIn, the social network for professionals acquired by Microsoft for $26.2 billion last year.
LinkedIn typically doesn’t invest in other companies — this actually appears to only be the third time it’s ever done so — and in this case Handorf, who is the CEO, tells me it’s because the two work closely together and may well do more in the future.
One of the most obvious places where it’s partnering now is in logins: G2 Crowd requires users to register themselves via their LinkedIn profiles in order to authenticate themselves and to help control against nefarious reviews of software from competitors and trolls. LinkedIn doesn’t allow cross posting to users’ profiles, but allows authenticated users to share G2 reviews onto LinkedIn and have it show up in their feed.
“G2 Crowd is a highly respected company with great insights into the B2B environment,” a spokesperson said. “We occasionally invest in companies that can inform our long-term business strategy, and in this case, we believe G2 Crowd can help us better understand and address the needs of our customers.” Handorf declined to comment on whether the investment was part of an attempted acquisition but noted that the company has been approached by others in recent times.
G2 Crowd is part of a large group of entities that have sprung up online that provide reviews and competitive analysis about various software products. However, most of these, Handorf points out, are based around affiliate revenue models, where the sites make money whenever users click on the links of the companies listed in their competitive lists.
Instead, he likens G2’s business model more to that of Glassdoor’s, the company review platform: “We don’t have advertising or give preference to companies who pay us,” he noted, “and we don’t do lead generation.” 
Companies, as on Glassdoor, get free profiles and they can claim them to add in more information about what they do, downloads and so on. The other area where G2 Crowd is hoping to build out its business is in areas of analytics and research — competing against the likes of Forrester, Gartner and IDC for profiles and sector analysis — and also into other adjacent areas of products that businesses might need to buy, be it consulting or integration services, or perhaps even who the best company is to cater an event. 
So far the formula has been working. Last year, there were 75,000 reviews posted on the site — triple the number from the year before, and this year G2 Crowd projects 225,000 reviews posted on the site. 
Another area where G2 is quite compatible with LinkedIn is that both companies tend to have very strong SEO, meaning its results score highly on Google when you are looking things up (in the case of LinkedIn, people like “Ingrid Lunden”; and in the case of G2, things like “LinkedIn competitors.”)
This is a blessing and a curse: a blessing in that it brings a lot of visibility and traffic to the company’s services and potentially that will help feed in more reviews and drive more companies to claim and pay for their profiles. A curse because that leaves G2 Crowd somewhat at the mercy of Google, its algorithms and its longer-term ambitions of what it might want to do in various specific areas of vertical search. (Offering comparative software reviews and listings seems like a very obvious area for Google to tap at some point.)
For now, G2 Crowd continues to grow and meet the demands of a new landscape in the business world, where we collaborate and communicate as a matter of course.
“There is a paradigm shift occurring as B2B buyers increasingly behave like consumers, relying on authentic online reviews and social media to make purchase decisions and no other company is better suited to catalyze this market opportunity than G2 Crowd,” said Accel Partner, Arun Mathew, in a statement.  “Accel has a long history of investing in market leading companies like Facebook, Dropbox, Slack, and Atlassian, and G2 Crowd is no exception. The company’s rapid growth and customer buy-in from leading tech innovators lends an extremely influential voice to the industry.”
Microsoft today announced that virtually all of its engineers now use the Git version control system to develop its Windows operating system. The Windows Git repository includes about 3.5 million files that weigh in at about 300GB when you check them into Git. Git, however, wasn’t built for a project of this size, so Microsoft developed the Git Virtual File System to be able to get the benefits of using Git without having to wait hours for even the simplest of Git commands to run.
The code for the Git Virtual File system is now available under the MIT license on GitHub and open for community contributions.
The move to Git took about three months. Before this, Microsoft used Source Depot to manage the Windows code, though other groups with smaller code bases also still use Team Foundation Server. My understanding is that Source Depot is Microsoft’s fork of the Perforce platform and the company today notes that the Windows code was originally spread across more than 40 of these depots.
Over the course of the last three months, Microsoft moved some Windows developers over to the new Git repository to test the system. Then, in March, it rolled out Git for all 2,000 engineers that work on the Windows OneCore team. Today, about 3,500 of the roughly 4,000 engineers on the Windows team are on Git.
Microsoft also notes that it built a Git proxy solution for the Git Virtual File System (GVFS) to help manage the bandwidth issues that would inevitably arise given the distributed nature of the team.
As Microsoft also announced today, a number of Git vendors already support it (Atlassian) or are working on bringing support for it to their tools (Tower and GitKracken). To test GVFS, you can also create a repo on Microsoft’s Visual Studio Team Services (and you need a VSTS account to do this).

: James D. Morgan/Getty Images
It’s been a little over a year since Fred Wilson and Tim Armstrong appeared onstage at Disrupt in New York to launch Tech:NYC.
The two titans of New York City’s tech scene were angling to create a new organization that would speak out for the interests of the tech industry in both city and state government while planting a flag for New York’s place at the forefront of innovation around the country.
With Julie Samuels at the helm as executive director, the organization has done more in that year than I think either Armstrong (my boss at… um…. Yahool, AOoo, Oauth, Oath) or Wilson could have imagined.

From battling back bills that would have hamstrung online marketplaces like hometown heroes Etsy, or marshaling the community to speak out against national policies that effect the technology industry, Tech:NYC has taken a leading role in policy discussions in city hall, the Albany statehouse, and as a beacon nationally.
“The biggest achievement is that we’ve been able to create a community,” says Wilson.
Indeed they have. Over the year, Tech:NYC hasn’t gone from just zero to one (thanks Peter) it’s gone from zero to over 400 members (technically it started with five founding members — the pre-Yahoo AOL, Bloomberg, Facebook, Google, and venture firm Union Square Ventures).
But the organization’s reach extends beyond its sheer numbers.
For Wilson and the executive director Samuels, nothing exemplifies the kind of work that Tech:NYC can and should do more than its response to the Executive Order signed earlier this year that denied entry to immigrants, refugees (and even US citizens) from several countries from entering the United States without extreme vetting.
“Just getting the local community to stand up against what’s happening down in Washington was an achievement,” Wilson says. “We need to do it.”
For Samuels, the response to the executive order crystallized everything that the new technology organization can do, both locally and more broadly.
“It was an expression of New York values,” says Samuels, and something that the organization will continue to advocate. The coalition of signatories (and indeed the technology community in New York broadly) reflects the diversity of experience and background that Samuels believes will make New York one of the great technology centers in the world.
Part of that effort is also dependent on policy… another area where the Tech:NYC coalition came together to battle for its interests against what it viewed as bad laws coming from Albany.
Earlier this year, the state government floated a proposal for a marketplace tax that would, in essence, place unfair burdens on companies like Amazon, Etsy, and any other ecommerce company looking to do business in New York, according to the Tech:NYC arguments.
With a coordinated effort including education, and a well-placed op-ed in the New York Post, Tech:NYC was able to kill the proposal.
Finally, the organization is pushing an agenda that emphasizes gender and racial diversity in the New York technology industry and looking to encourage that through job training and primary education efforts.

Wilson has been instrumental in encouraging New York City to develop its Computer Science For All program, first instituted by current Mayor Bill de Blasio, and Tech:NYC is picking up the banner and encouraging the governor to expand the program statewide.
Given the current political climate, Wilson said, it’s important for the technology industry to stand up for its interests and, more importantly, its beliefs. Organizations like Tech:NYC enable companies to use their collective power to influence policy and have a voice in what their communities and cities look like.
Given its successes, it looks like the organization is well on its way to ensuring that the technology industry is well-represented in the discussions of what a future New York state looks like. And since New York is one of the wealthiest and most populous states in the country — its policy decisions can shape the national discussion.

: Henrik Sorensen/Stone/Getty Images
Circle Media, the company behind Circle with Disney – a device that helps parents enforce their home’s internet rules and restrictions – has raised $10 million in Series A funding, the company announced this morning. The round was led by early stage venture fund Relay Ventures. There was another private equity investment in the round, but the parties didn’t want to be named.
The Portland-based startup had previously raised $800,000 in startup capital and $3 million in convertible notes. We had reported $1.5 million raised in November 2015, while fundraising was ongoing.
The A round included $7 million in new money from Relay and others, as well as the $3 million in convertible notes that changed from loan to stock. Counting this as additional new money, Circle has raised $10 million to date.
The idea behind Circle with Disney is to offer parents a simpler way of managing the devices on their home network, including when family members are allowed to be online, and what content they’re able to access. This is not a novel concept, to be fair – numerous companies have offered internet control software in the past, and several makers of network-attached hardware exist today that can do much of what Circle with Disney can, too.

For example, Circle’s device competes with newer kid-safe routers like Torch, as well as modern routers that include parental control features, like Orbi, Eero, Luma, and others. It also takes on services like OpenDNS’s family shield or even the newer parental control applications rolling out from larger companies, like Comcast’s new Xfinity xFi app, Amazon’s FreeTime, or Google’s Family Link.
Like many of these devices and services, Circle with Disney allows parents to set device time limits, device “bedtimes,” configure internet and app filters, track web usage, and pause the home’s internet.
In fact, Apple’s failure to address some of these parental concerns – like being able to disable internet access, or setting screen time limits – within its iOS software has left a hole in the market, allowing companies like this to emerge.


In addition to the basics, Circle with Disney offers ways to reward kids with screen time for doing chores, turn off distracting apps while teens are driving, and more through a “Connections” platform that works with third-party apps and services.
Circle with Disney’s other advantage – as you can guess by its name – is its partnership with Disney for use of its brand name and select assets. The device includes access to short-form Disney content, like trailers, video clips, games, social media postings, GIFs, emojis, promos and more. Dozens of pieces of content are added daily, so there’s always something new to see.
The $99 device is sold through Amazon, Best Buy, Target, DisneyStore.com, and Circle’s website, and it recently hit 3,700 Walmart stores in the U.S.
Circle founder Jelani Memory, a former creative consultant, photographer, and videographer, declined to say how many Circle devices have been sold to date, but noted that the expansion in Walmart doubled its retail presence.
Beyond the upfront purchase price, Circle Media also makes money by upgrading customers to its Circle Go subscription. This extends Circle’s feature set outside the home, including to mobile devices on cellular networks, for $9.95 per month.

However, for this to work on iOS, it requires the installation of a profile on the iPhone. This can be a little tricky to set up. And, because it connects the device to a VPN in order to work, some services may be unavailable or partially disrupted when it’s installed, including Netflix, Hulu, Pokémon Go, and Ticketmaster, the company says. Others may also perform inconsistently, like iMessage, Snapchat and Instagram.
This can make for a difficult upsell, obviously, and speaks to the broader issues with not having better iOS parental controls available from Apple directly. (Memory also declined to share details about conversions from device owners to subscribers.)
The company says it plans to use the new funding to continue to develop the product, expand to new markets, and pursue growth.
“With our current headcount at about 30 people, we have plans to double that in the next 12 months across all departments, specifically in our development teams,” notes Memory. “We’ll also be continuing to work on new product offerings that will be debuted later this year, as well as scaling into additional regions across the globe. We have currently availability in Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Netherlands, Norway and Sweden and seek to expand that. We’ll also seek to deepen our marketing spend,” he adds.
“We live in an era where parents need solutions to help manage their family’s persistent access to the internet,” said Kevin Talbot, managing partner, Relay Ventures, in a statement about the firm’s investment. “As a happy Circle customer I proactively tracked them down and decided to invest because their product simply works exactly as advertised.”
Over the last month, it’s been hard to miss talk in the media and on social channels about initial coin offerings, or ICOs. What are they? Where did they suddenly come from? Who’s investing in them?
When the popular investing platform AngelList announced on Monday that it’s jumping into the business of making ICOs easier to coordinate, attention reached a fever pitch, prompting my colleague Alex Wilhelm to yesterday tackle the question, “WTF is an ICO?”
Because this editor was still confused (I’m not proud), I talked yesterday with Stan Miroshnik, a UC Berkeley grad with an MBA from MIT who today runs L.A.-based Argon Group, one of the first digital finance-focused investment banks. Miroshnik nicely answered an array of questions about ICOs, including how these things get staged, how companies establish a value for their offerings, and more. If you’re still trying to get a handle of this latest investing trend, too, read on.
TC: ICOs are everywhere suddenly.  When was the first ICO staged?
SM:  You have to go back to around 2013, when Mastercoin, a protocol on top the bitcoin blockchain, raised $500,000. Then you had a number of other milestone token sales, such as Ethereum in 2014, then the DAO, or Decentralized Autonomous Organization, which was built on the Ethereum blockchain and that stored and transmitted Ether and Ethereum-based assets and that raised the equivalent of $150 million last year.
Momentum began to build after that, as a smaller group of [these offerings] grew in size, and by last fall, some companies were raising millions of dollars in minutes. That really kind of made people stand up and wonder if this is a new funding mechanism.
TC: How many ICOs have there been to date?
SM: There were 64 last year that collectively raised $103 million, excluding the DAO. So far this year, we’ve seen 25 offerings raise a bit more than $163 million, and we’re on track to see more than $210 million raised by the end of June.
TC: The idea is that instead of raise traditional funding from a bank or investors, a company that sells tokens to its customers ensures those customers are better aligned with the company’s success. Is that accurate?
SM: Yes. If I’m buying your token, I am incentivized to help the company’s product and ecosystem expand, bring in other users, maximize the tokens’ utility, and I’m hoping that demand for the token will increase and it may become more valuable. You’re creating the network and virality effect with these monetary incentives.
The term ICO is really a misnomer for what are token sales or token crowd sales.
TC: So how do these ICOs work, practically speaking? 
SM: There’s a cadence to these things. You do the prep-work and get your project to a natural technical milestone. Then you pre-announce when you’re planning to have a token sale, describing some of the terms, and telling a story of the project and its goals. You publish a white paper and disclosure and give people a chance to read it and comment. There are also usually threads that develop on Reddit, Bitcointalk, Slack, Telegram and elsewhere, where people actively debate the merits of the product. Then, on the landing page on the aforementioned date, there’s typically a tool that enables purchasers to acquire the tokens in exchange for bitcoin or ether.
TC: These require digital wallets?
SM: [The issuing company] requests [the investor’s] source wallet and the wallet where the token buyer wants to receive the token. Once the company collects the money, the sale is concluded, the smart contract is deployed, the tokens are issues via the smart contract, and delivered to the token purchasers.
TC: How do companies establish a value for the tokens they’re offering?
SM: Typically, a company sets out of a goal, then in the sales process, they can either discover what the market is willing to pay, as with a Dutch auction, or they can stipulate the price themselves and explain what the use of the proceeds will be. The value of the token lies in its functionality and utility.
Token holders are effectively prepaying for a product or service. If I run a video game company, for example, I can sell you tokens that represent in-game purchases once the game is built. If you know you’ll buy swords and shields and things like that, you can just pay for them now. It helps me develop the game and gives me more capital to do it, and you benefit from the currency becoming more valuable over time, because there’s a finite amount of it issued. The currency will presumably appreciate because the game will become more popular, and you were going to participate in it anyway, but now you’re also supporting the game developers.
TC: Do people always buy these tokens with cryptocurrencies?
SM: For the most part, they do. Sometimes, token sales involve dollars or other fiat currencies.
TC: Does it matter?
SM: Companies mostly use cryptocurrencies out of an abundance of caution. When you’re using fiat currency, you start touching the margins of banking and money transmitter regulations, and using cryptocurrencies keeps you clear of them. It’s also the case that a lot of your audience – right now, at least – is part of the cryptocurrency world anyway. These are people who have [digital] wallets. It’s not hard for them.
TC: Is there a concern that U.S. regulators will crack down on these ICOs?
SM: Lawyers are relying on case law that defines what a security is. The most well-known case is the “Howey Test,” created by the Supreme Court for determining whether certain transactions qualify as investment contracts. If they do, then those transactions are considered securities and are subject to certain disclosure and registration requirements. When tokens are structured basically as the sale of a service or product, they’re designed to make sure the various prongs of the test are not triggered.
TC: So the SEC hasn’t reached out to anyone about these.
SM:  The SEC and other regulators are engaged and aware of the developments in this market, but they’re taking a measured approach. It hasn’t taken a view publicly,  put out a paper, or taken an enforcement action in the space. Other regulators such as the CFTC, the OCC, and state-level bodies are watching carefully.
TC: Where are most ICOs staged?
SM: It’s really a global industry. Some are in the U.S. and structured through Delaware [where many companies are incorporated]. Some are structured in Switzerland, some in Singapore, which has a very token-friendly regime where tokens aren’t considered a security. Companies are coming from many countries.
TC: What types of companies are primarily using ICOs?
SM: It’s still a financing mechanism that’s very organic to the blockchain community.
It all started with protocols like Ethereum raising funding through this mechanism, and it has stayed close to related projects, like the distributed storage company Storj and Civic, a company that provides identify through the blockchain and is announcing its token sale this Thursday. A lot of these founders and token buyers are part of bitcoin forums and Reddit, and that’s why [certain companies] are able to raise these large sums fairly quickly; they’re reaching out to thought leaders and getting their support and generating buzz about their projects. It’s  basically the open source community, now with an open-source funding mechanism.
TC: For how much longer, do you think? ICOs are getting tons of attention suddenly, as you know.
SM: We’re definitely starting to see more and more companies that are outside this core space beginning to examine [this new financing mechanism]. But it’s early days.
TC: What happens when people want to sell the tokens they’ve bought?
SM: Well, first, you can use them in a company’s ecosystem. With Storj, maybe you buy storage. You can also accumulate these tokens over time, as a bet that with more enterprise demand for storage capacity, the coins will become more valuable, after which you can sell your tokens to someone else who needs to purchase storage space.
There are also a number of cryptocurrency exchanges where these tokens trade. In the case of Storj, you can sell or buy on Poloniex or Bittrex.
TC: Is there any kind of lock-up period, or can a token holder immediately sell that token if he or she wants?
SM: There hasn’t been a lock-up period traditionally, but over the last two months, a practice has started to develop [toward that end] as transactions are getting larger, because it clearly makes a lot of sense. In the case of Storj, some purchasers that committed early received discounts but were also locked up [from selling] for between 3 and 12 months. So I think we’re beginning to see the maturation of market [in a way that reflects] traditional dynamics.
TC: Should VCs be nervous about ICOs? You mention Civic, which is staging an ICO. Civic has also raised some venture capital previously. But plenty of other companies seem to be skipping the VC part.
SM: To some degree they should, but we’ve also talked with a lot of very smart VCs who are looking at this space, including August Capital, Tim and Adam Draper, Blockchain Capital. Many are doing the work to understand how to be involved and active in the space and the fundamental value of these protocols. Union Square Ventures has said it now has a mandate from its LPs to hold these assets.
For companies that raise funds through a token sale and that have had traditional angel or venture rounds previously, for example, their equity investors get to skip one or two rounds of dilution, which is great; it means their returns are hyper-levered.
TC: Is there a bubble forming?
SM: There is a lot of velocity, but it’s coming from the liquidity that’s coming into this industry. A lot of early bitcoin investors are [plugging some of their rewards from its run-up in price] into these projects where the team is technically strong and the product or protocol is robust and addressing a large or hard problem.
More, every day I talk with hedge fund managers who just stumbled across this space and recognize that a diversified portfolio that includes a non-correlated asset like bitcoin has been shown to raise their sharp ratio, so we’re starting to see more adventurous family offices and high-net-worth individuals participate in these token sales.
TC: These offerings largely center on projects and not fully formed products, if I’m understanding correctly. That makes some outsiders nervous. Do you worry about bad actors?
SM: It’s really early. This whole market is just a couple of years old. Many projects have been out for less than a year, so it’s too soon to tell. But this is a small community where people know each other, so there’s a lot of founder pride and reputations are at stake. Also, the companies post their white papers publicly, their code is up on Github, and their token smart contracts are often peer audited, so [potential buyers] have some transparency in terms of where a product is in its cycle and also the community’s level of buy-in.
As with everything, it’s buyer beware. You certainly shouldn’t be buying token in projects you don’t understand.



The big news at DJI’s “huge Seize the Moment” event in New York City is, as expected, pretty small. The world’s largest consumer drone maker cracked the code of portability with last year’s backpack-sized, folding prop Mavic Pro drone (soundly thumping former ally GoPro in the process) and now it’s back on the scene a little over six months later with the Spark, a palm-sized unit that makes the Mavic look downright massive by comparison.
The usually top-secret drone maker did a terrible job keeping things under wraps this time out. Honestly, there isn’t much we didn’t see ahead of the event, save, of course, for actually getting to see the damn thing in the air. Leaks showcased the tiny vehicle from pretty much every angle — fitting, really, for a space that’s been raising serious privacy concerns of late. And they even got the name right.
The drone starts at a surprisingly accessible $499. That was really going to be the big sticking point here — with most pundits considering anything under $1,000 a good play for the company’s generally high-quality but high-priced products. It’s still not cheap, exactly, giving the number of budget drones that have flooded the market in recent years, but with all of the functionality the company has jammed into the thing, the Spark could well be DJI’s first truly mainstream drone.

The notion that this was going to be some kind of racing drone turned out to have missed the mark pretty broadly. Like the Mavic and basically all of the company’s drones, this is very much a photo/video taking device. The company is positioning the drone as a “story-telling” product – a fact it hinted at with the recent teaser video it released a couple of days before today’s event. The company is essentially positioning this as the first drone you can really take with you and incorporate into your life — the same story it attempted to tell with the Mavic last year.
But aside from size (which let’s be honest, is the most important thing here), the Spark’s got some pretty impressive tricks up its sleeves. It can take off from the palm of your hands and land back in it with little hassle. The demo of the functionality went exactly as planned, which isn’t always the case at these sorts of events, especially given the swamp of cell phone signals that is Grand Central Station..text .crunchreport h3 {color:#fff}


Even more impressive is a gesture-based control, about which the assembled press made audibly excited mumbled comparisons to Star Wars.  And yeah, there’s a selfie function, too. Smiling with you arms folded will trigger the picture taking functionality.

For more complex maneuvers, there’s a smartphone app that can be used to send the drone off in the air in various patterns, gathering some pretty impressive video footage in the process. And the company’s existing Go 4 app offers up quick video editing on the fly. The video looks pretty solid in the demos — it’s full HD, and the still camera is 12MP. So, no 4K, which, as you’ve no doubt guessed, means this is far from a professional device. It’s more like a flying smartphone. There are a number of photo filters on board as well, that add things like shallow depth of field to images.

The drone itself can reach speeds of up to 31MPH, and a 3D sensing camera, GPS/Glonass and an on-board vision positioning system help keep the system stable, even indoors when the signal is crappy, while the two-axis gimbal helps stabilize video while it’s shooting.
The on-board battery is swappable on the fly – a big deal for a drone this small. And, for good measure, there’s a microUSB port for recharging — not USB-C for some reason, but beggars can’t be choosers, I guess. Each battery promises about 16 minutes of flight time person charge. There’s also a remote for the drone. It’s an optional accessory, which explains why it wasn’t pictured in those original leaks.

Crunchbase






				DJI			


 
Founded
2006


Overview
DJI Innovations is a Chinese company that produces commercial and recreational unmanned aerial systems.


Its product line covers the high-end UAV flight control system and ground control system, the professional film and TV aerial photography platform, the top commercial gimbal system, the high-definition long-range digital video transmission system, the professional level wireless remote control …


Location

Shenzhen, 30



Categories

Consumer Electronics, 																													Aerospace, 																													Wireless, 																													Manufacturing 


Founders
Frank Wang


Full profile for DJI 



 



				SPARK			


 
Founded
2011


Overview
SPARK pre-calculate the time for every step: the time it takes to get there, time takes to find a parking, and time it takes to walk from the parking spot to your destination. They always leave enough time for the nearest paid-parking fallback. sPARK guarantees parking on time by suggesting an optimal route around your destination (pat. pending technology).


Location

Tel Aviv, Tel Aviv



Categories

Transportation 


Website

http://www.sparking.co.il/wordpress/wordpress/ 


Full profile for SPARK 



 



				Apache Spark			


 
Founded
2009


Overview
Spark is a fast and general processing engine compatible with Hadoop data. It can run in Hadoop clusters through YARN or Spark's standalone mode, and it can process data in HDFS, HBase, Cassandra, Hive, and any Hadoop InputFormat. It is designed to perform both batch processing (similar to MapReduce) and new workloads like streaming, interactive queries, and machine learning.


Location

Berkeley, CA



Categories

SaaS, 																													Computer, 																													Software 


Website

http://spark.apache.org 


Full profile for Apache Spark 



 



				Spark			


 
Description
Spark is a smart email client that solves the problem of an overwhelmed inbox.


Website
https://sparkmailapp.com/




The tiny drone is available for pre-order today and starts shipping next month in three different colors. Assuming, of course, that the company doesn’t run into the sorts of production issues that plague the Mavic. There are a number of accessories available for the drone, a number of which are jammed into the $699 Fly More deluxe version. And the thing naturally works with the first-person video goggles that the company debuted alongside the Mavic last year.
DJI also went big on the warranty this time out, after the Mavic ran into some issues with its own launch (not to mention our own birdhouse-related issues) and GoPro’s Karma started literally falling from the sky.
Every time DJI announces a drone these days, the company makes the promise of finally mainstreaming the still relatively emerging technology. And every time the argument sounds a little more convincing. Last year’s Mavic backpack drone made a pretty compelling case, at least as far as getting more of these devices into the hands of photo enthusiasts. And the camera body-sized Spark is even more tempting for those on the go.
With a palm-sized body and sub-$500 price point, the company is taking some pretty significant steps beyond just photographers and videographers. It’s still a pretty expensive toy at the end of the day. But with the number of features the company is tossing in here, the notion of a solid drone for the rest of us just became a little more real.
We’ll be getting our hands on one soon, a fact that no one’s more excited about than our videographer.



MIT researchers have invented a new type of workout material that can breathe using biological cells. The project, called bioLogic, is essentially a “breathable workout suit” covered in small flaps. The flaps are “lined with live microbial cells that shrink and expand in response to changes in humidity” allowing the entire outfit to act as a reactive sensor to let athletes cool off as needed.
The group released their findings in a new paper.
“These cells are so strong that they can induce bending of the substrate they are coated on,” said lead author and Wen Wang.
Opening and closing flaps isn’t the only thing this system can do.
“We use fluorescence as an example, and this can let people know you are running in the dark. In the future we can combine odor-releasing functionalities through genetic engineering. So maybe after going to the gym, the shirt can release a nice-smelling odor,” said Wang.
The material uses a nonpathogenic strain of E. coli that could swell and shrink in humidity and even fluoresce when you sweat, glowing green as you exert yourself. From the release:
￼The team printed parallel lines of E. coli cells onto sheets of latex, creating two-layer structures, and exposed the fabric to changing moisture conditions. When the fabric was placed on a hot plate to dry, the cells began to shrink, causing the overlying latex layer to curl up. When the fabric was then exposed to steam, the cells began to glow and expand, causing the latex flatten out. After undergoing 100 such dry/wet cycles, Wang says the fabric experienced “no dramatic degradation” in either its cell layer or its overall performance.
This suggests you will soon have bioluminescent and bioreactive clothing that can be washed, dried, and worn again. The suit works far better than traditional workout wear and the researchers found that “effectively removed sweat from the body and lowered skin temperature” when working out. They’ve added the technology to the running shoe which, obviously, will soon allow E. coli to keep your tootsies nice and cool.
Xbox One owners get a new reason to fire up their consoles on June 1: Xbox Game Pass, the download service Microsoft created to deliver subscription-based gaming with a library of Xbox One and Xbox 360 games in an all-you-can game model.
The service is similar to PlayStation Now, Sony’s PlayStation 4-based equivalent, and also to Nivida’s GeForce NOW streaming service for its Shield Android TV set-top box. The Xbox version will cost members $9.99 per month, and will be available to Xbox Live Gold members starting today, with access opening to everyone on June 1. The key difference is that Microsoft’s offering allows full downloads of titles available to play, meaning you can access them offline and don’t have to worry about having a high-quality broadband connection to ensure smooth streaming.
The catalog includes some pretty recent fan favorites, like Halo 5: Guardians and Lego Batman, but it’s mostly older releases, which is why they’re available in a bundle with limitless play for a monthly subscription, instead of one-off at $70 or more per title. Still, if you missed out on some premiere releases over the years (life gets busy) then this is a great way to catch up.
You need an Xbox One to use Game Pass, but you also get discounts on full purchases of games and on game add-ons for currently available titles on the console. Sounds like something that should come to Windows 10, too, eventually, provided it drives revenue for Microsoft.
When SoftBank announced the first close of its Vision Fund this weekend — securing an initial commitment of $93 billion from investors including Apple, Qualcomm and Foxconn — it also quietly disclosed it had taken a stake in Nvidia.
Bloomberg is today reporting the size of that stake is $4 billion, for 4.9 percent of the company, which it says would make SoftBank the fourth largest investor in the chip maker.
Albeit, not necessarily for much longer: A line in the PR for the Vision Fund close on Saturday notes that the Vision Fund will have the right to acquire “certain investments already acquired (or agreed to be acquired)” by the SoftBank Group — with Nvidia being listed as one of those investments, along with a 24.99 percent stake in chip designer Arm (which SoftBank acquired last year for ~$31 billion). Although SoftBank of course retains its own ties to the Vision Fund and the fund’s investments.
A SoftBank spokesman declined to confirm the amount of its investment in Nvidia or to comment on Bloomberg’s report.
As we wrote recently, Nvidia’s GPUs have arguably become the bedrock underlying the current AI market explosion. And AI is one of the core areas of focus for SoftBank’s Vision Fund. Indeed, CEO Masayoshi Son set out his personal conviction earlier this year that the next 30 years will see the rise of superintelligent AI — saying this underpins his “hurry” to raise the ~$100 billion fund. So a chunky Nvidia investment meshes with his view of tomorrow’s world.
Even so, SoftBank has been spreading a lot of cash around lately. Other recent confirmed investments include $1.4 billion in Indian fintech unicorn Paytm; lead investor in virtual reality Improbable Worlds‘ $502 million raise; $5 billion in China’s Uber-killer Didi Chuxing; and a fresh $1.7 billion in global connectivity company OneWeb, after also investing $1 billion last year.
Some of these stakes may well move into the Vision Fund imminently, as the Nvidia stake and a chunk of ARM reportedly have. The fund has also been linked to a potential investment in WeWork, among others.
Son has previously said the mammoth Vision Fund won’t be a “typical fund” — and indeed, in size it’s unprecedented. But its modus operandi is intended to be hard to ignore too. “Most of our investments will range between 20 and 40 percent, making us the largest shareholder and board member, in a position to discuss strategy with the founders,” he told Bloomberg earlier this year.
So if money can buy superintelligent AI, it looks like Son is going to be the one to try and prove it.

: David Becker/Getty Images/Getty Images
This is the last trailer we’re getting for Luc Besson’s Valerian and the City of a Thousand Planets before it hits theaters on July 21, 2017. The bright, bold sci-fi epic looks like trademark Besson, which is to say it looks like The Fifth Element.
Valerian’s similarity to Besson’s previous sci-fi oeuvre is a good thing until proven otherwise, and I won’t hear any complaints to the contrary until this thing is out and available to watch. Plus, Clive Owen is in it and the world needs more Clive Owen.
While we wait to get more news on Microsoft closing a reported acquisition of Cloudyn, another report has emerged of one more enterprise startup that the software giant is buying in Israel. Calacalist reported earlier today that Microsoft is paying $100 million to acquire Hexadite, a cybersecurity company that uses AI to sort through and address smaller network attacks — which can run up to 10,000 a month for a larger organization — while identifying larger problems for security specialists to tackle.
The news comes about a month after reports that Microsoft would be paying between $50 million and $70 million to acquire Cloudyn, a company that monitors and optimises a company’s operations across multi-vendor cloud architectures.
Contacted for a response, Microsoft declined to comment on the latest report earlier today. And Hexadite and its co-founders Idan Levin, Barak Klinghofer, Eran Barak, did not respond to our questions.
For what it’s worth, a single source tells us that both the Hexadite and Cloudyn acquisitions are in progress, and the Hexadite acquisition will likely be announced in a couple of weeks, which is why we chose to re-report the latest rumor, and resuscitate the previous one.
Hexadite has to date raised $10.5 million in funding, according to Crunchbase, with investors including HP Ventures, YL Ventures, TenEleven Ventures and Moshe Lichtman of Israel Venture Partners. Notably, Lichtman is a ten-year veteran of Microsoft, which could point to one connection between the startup and its alleged acquirer. Its last round, of $8 million, was raised last year.
If accurate, the Hexadite acquisition would be one of a series of security acquisitions that Microsoft has made in Israel. Past deals include Aorato, Adallom and Secure Islands.
Microsoft’s interest in Hexadite — whose customers include Nuance, Telit and IDT — points to how security remains a hot area in the world of technology and specifically enterprise IT. The rapid growth of connected services and devices has gone hand-in-hand with a rapid rise in cybercrime, with malicious hackers becoming increasingly rampant and sophisticated in their attacks on networks and the hardware and apps that run on them, with breaches leading to millions of dollars in costs and lots of stress.
This has led to an increasingly sophisticated landscape for security services, with companies covering every aspect of how we conduct business today and a huge amount of spending by organizations to try to prevent, stop, fix or mitigate damage. IDC estimates that enterprises will spend nearly $82 billion on security software this year.
Hexadite is part of what you might call the new guard of security companies, building solutions based on machine learning and AI modelled on “top cyber analysts” to try to tackle threats more like the smartest humans would.
Essentially what it does is provide a security remediation system: it identifies and stops smaller issues itself, and at the same time it weeds out bigger problems that need to be addressed by in-person security teams. By doing this, it prevents those teams from being overwhelmed by the smaller items. It claims to reduce the time it takes to deal with security issues, as a result, by 95 percent.
If you look at what Hexadite does, there is a connect between it and what Cloudyn is doing on the cloud management and optimisation front.
In both cases, the idea is to bring more automation to some of the more regular and recurring tasks of running a connected, cloud-based business. As Microsoft continues to hone its focus in the enterprise market, and on cloud services specifically, it is looking for more products and services to help differentiate itself from others in the field.
As more businesses are looking for ways to reduce mundane tasks and grapple with the sheer weight of network traffic and data that they face today, they’ll be looking for more solutions like these.
We’ll update this post as we learn more.

: Getty Images
While Sphero has released a whole lineup of robotic, Internet-connected toys, it remains best-known for its BB-8 droid from Star Wars: The Force Awakens. Today it’s launching its next Disney tie-in — Ultimate Lightning McQueen.
This is a car that you can control from your iPhone or Android, based on the Owen Wilson-voiced character from Pixar’s Cars franchise. (Cars 3 is coming out on June 16.) Ultimate Lightning McQueen is available today for a price of $299.
“As our partnership with Disney has evolved, we’ve been able to start to look at further properties within the Disney portfolio,” explained Product Manager Jenica Watts. (Sphero’s initial connection to Disney was as part of the Disney Accelerator.) “One of the teams had the opportunity to build an amazing, lifelike Lightning McQueen.”



The idea of a remote-controlled car from Cars might not seem all that novel, but it looks like Sphero has put a lot of work into bringing the character to life. Probably the first thing you’ll notice is that his front windshield is an LCD screen displaying Lightning’s animated eyes. And he talks, too — Watts said this is the first time a speaker has been built into a Sphero toy, and there’s even an animatronic mouth that moves as he speaks.
There’s also a feature that Sphero calls “emotive suspension.” That means Lightning doesn’t just drive around — his left and right sides also twitch up and down with excitement, and he’ll speak and move in response to taps on his roof, hood and doors.



Lightning McQueen




Ultimate Lightning McQueen




CMC_3429




Ultimate Lightning McQueen




Ultimate Lightning McQueen




 View Slideshow


Previous
Next
Exit


This was all supervised by Pixar’s Jay Ward, creative director for the Cars franchise, with advice from Bobby Podesta, supervising animator on Cars 3. The end result is that Ultimate Lightning McQueen has a real sense of personality — enough so that after we’d been charging him for a few minutes in the corner of the TechCrunch New York office, we had to put him to sleep because of his constant demands for attention. (To be fair, that’s probably what we should have done in the first place.)

Related Articles
 As for his performance on the road, the smartphone app offers an intuitive interface for driving him around at speeds of up to 6 miles per hour, with support for reversing and drifting. I’m not exactly an experienced remote-controlled driver (some of my friends would say that I’m not much better with an actual car), but even so, I enjoyed crashing Ultimate Lightning McQueen around the Sphero demo space, and then around our office.
The only real difficulty I had was in the initial setup, where it took a couple of tries before I successfully paired my phone with Lightning and downloaded all the needed updates.
There are other features that I haven’t had a chance to test out yet. For one thing, Sphero says you can watch the Cars films with Lightning and he’ll offer his own commentary (his microphone your smartphone will pick up the movie’s audio). There’s also a Pit Stop Panic game that you can play on your phone. And the company says it has created more than 150 animations for Lightning to perform, which users can connect together into scripts through an “acting studio” in the app.
Facebook announced today it’s expanding its online fundraising tools – basically, Facebook’s own take on a GoFundMe-type service – to include support for community fundraisers as well as those for sports teams. The company had first launched its personal fundraising tools in March of this year, allowing users to raise money for educational, medical or pet medical needs, public crises, natural disasters, personal emergencies, and funerals or loss.
That launch, however, was considered a beta test. Today, Facebook says the product is publicly available for all users in the U.S. who are over 18 years of age.
With the new supported categories, Facebook users are now able to raise money for things like  neighborhood services, community improvements, or environmental improvements, Facebook explains. Or, in the case of sports teams, people can raise money for equipment, competitions or team fees.
All fundraisers have to first go through a review process to ensure they meet Facebook’s policy and guidelines. Afterwards, users can promote their fundraising campaign by inviting friends to join and donate, or by posting the campaign to Facebook.

The launch of personal fundraisers follows a series of other efforts Facebook has made in the fundraising space. The company rolled out a Kickstarter-like feature in 2015 aimed at nonprofits, which allowed the organizations to set up a campaign page, explain their goals and collect cash. And in 2016, Facebook expanded its fundraising tools so individuals could collect funds on behalf of nonprofit organizations, too.
The company then moved directly into GoFundMe’s space this March, even undercutting its rival on the fee structure. Facebook’s personal fundraisers have a 6.9 percent + $.30 fee that goes to payment processing, fundraiser vetting, and security and fraud protection. GoFundMe, meanwhile, takes 7.9 percent + $.30 for personal or charity campaigns.
Facebook touts its lower price point as coming from a desire to encourage giving and good works on its network.
“Facebook’s goal is to create a platform for good that’s sustainable over the long-term, and not to make a profit from our charitable giving tools,” the company said in today’s announcement.
However, the fundraisers have another advantage for the social network. By giving to fundraisers, Facebook is encouraging more payment transactions among its user base – and payments is an area of its business that’s still under-developed today, despite Facebook having added support for person-to-person payments in Messenger.
Access to personal fundraisers are open to all as of now, and can be found via facebook.com/fundraisers on the desktop, or from the “Fundraisers” menu on mobile devices.
Bill Rossi, the new chief executive officer at Metabiota, believes that (unlikely as it seems) the insurance industry might be the key to stopping epidemic outbreaks worldwide — and that Metabiota would supply the monitoring tools to make the product work.
Rossi, who quietly took the reins at the San Francisco-based company earlier in the year, said that a new product is being developed by international insurance companies alongside global financial institutions to respond to pandemic risk.
The company’s chief executive said that the new policies will provide financing in the wake of deadly pandemics and encourage multi-national corporations and nation-states to invest in preventing the spread of disease.
Metabiota launched its insurance product last month and has been pitching its services to insurers, nations, and companies ever since. Indeed, Metabiota is partnering with the African Risk Capacity (ARC) agency, an agency of the  African Union (AU) to help nations respond to threats.

The former chief operating officer of Bidgely, an energy software company (backed by Khosla Ventures) that sold to utilities worldwide, and the former chief marketing officer at Enphase Energy, a solar monitoring solution.
Perhaps most relevant, Rossi worked at Google selling productivity apps to enterprise customers. A graduate from Dartmouth with an MBA from Harvard, Metabiota’s new chief executive is focused on juicing the company’s growth after 8 years selling to the relatively staid government market.
Rossi took over the executive role from co-chief executives Nathan Wolfe and Robert Mann, though Nathan still remains involved with the company.
“Most of its history was in government services,” says Rossi. “Government services is a good market, but if the goal is to make the world resistant to epidemic risk and [the insurance product] is one way to make the world more resilient.”
Interest in epidemic and pandemic risk insurance has been growing since the Ebola outbreak of 2014. Last year at the G7 finance summit in Japan, financial leaders from the world’s largest economies unveiled the Pandemic Emergency Financing Facility, a $500 million effort to make funds instantly available for curbing the spread of infectious diseases.
Those public funds are being complimented by work insurers are already doing to sell sovereign wealth insurance for epidemic risk, Rossi said.
There’s a potential for abuse in these kinds of policies which may provide a perverse incentive to governments which could conceivably profit on the back of insurance payouts in the event that a country is adversely affected by an epidemic (not to be too ghoulish about it).
Rossi insists that the insurance policies will encourage countries to establish better monitoring and management tools so that they can respond to outbreaks before they become severe global pandemics.
For Rossi and the team at Metabiota, it’s imperative that the governments of countries where these pandemics originate invest in early detection systems for when diseases begin to spread.
“These global health threats represent a pretty sizable disruption,” says Rossi. “We work with sovereign nations and also the insurers who have the financial wherewithal to ensure that policies are put in place to prevent the spread of disease.”
The threats aren’t academic. Earlier this month the World Health Organization confirmed an outbreak of the Ebola virus disease in the Democratic Republic of Congo. So far, three deaths were connected to the virus, and another 21 suspected cases are being investigated.
A two-year outbreak in West Africa which began in 2014 infected 28,000 people and resulted in 11,000 deaths.

: Bryce Durbin
Spider-Man: Homecoming is not that far away now, set for U.S. release on July 7. The movie got two new trailers early Wednesday, including a U.S. version (above), and the International trailer (below). I was worried this was going to be a game of spotting minor differences, but it very much is not, as you’ll see for yourself.
The domestic trailer focuses a lot on Spidey’s suit, which is a gift from Tony Stark (aka Iron Man) and which is filled with top-tier tech. The Spider-Man of comic book lore is mostly a DIY inventor type with lots of science acumen, but the suit depicted in this trailer looks like an Iron Man armor without the armor, instead of a high school kid’s prize-winning science project.

Meanwhile, in that second trailer, we get a much better picture of what evil plan Spider-Man is trying to thwart in the movie. Someone’s apparently hoarding weapons and tech that pops up around Avengers battles across the globe. We also get Spider-Man vlogging the fight where he made his debut in Captain America: Civil War, which I’m sure is designed to maximize the YouTuber appeal.
You may have feelings about a tech-heavy Spider-Man suit or other aspects of this interpretation of the character, but it’s still shaping up to be better than any Spider-Man depicted in movies in recent memory.
Have a robotic startup or project? We want you on stage at TechCrunch Session: Robotics this July 17 at MIT. We’re looking for students to demo and early stage startups to pitch. If selected, both will get free tickets and exhibit space at the event. Use this form to apply.
This opportunity will put participants in front of the companies, founders and engineers driving the robotics field forward. Pitch-off participants will get several minutes to make their case in a competition for a chance to exhibit their creation at Disrupt SF. Selected participants will reveal their company to the audience and a group of expert judges who will ultimately pick a winner.
Students should apply for the demo slots, which feature more time on the main stage to tell their story. High school students to grad students should apply. We’re looking for projects that can shift the industry. Please note, you must have a working robotic demo for this opportunity.
Over the last few weeks, TechCrunch has met with countless robotics companies in Boston, Pittsburgh and elsewhere. This event is going to be epic. The lineup of speakers and companies participating is amazing and there’s still an opportunity to get involved. Drop us a line with speaker and topic suggestions.
Our aim is to bring together the key players in robotics. That includes the investors and founders focused on building the next iRobot, Kiva and Intuitive Surgical. We’ll stir into that mix the technologists, researchers and engineering students working on the latest stuff, like soft robotics, collaborative robotics, undersea and airborne robotics and that welcoming, all-purpose robot you always wanted to meet you at the door with a cold beer.
Tickets for the event are currently available. Seating is very limited so don’t wait. Grab them while you can.
We are also happy to announce that MIT’s Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence Laboratory (CSAIL) is a key sponsor. The event is absolutely global, but there is no better place to stage the gathering than Boston.



Stae wants to help local governments collect, manage and process data about their infrastructure. The company just raised $1.5 million from Story Ventures, Fontinalis Partners and Samsung Next.
I first covered Stae back in April 2016. The vision hasn’t changed much, it’s all about preparing cities for the future and upgrading infrastructure by making it more efficient through technology. But there are now a couple of cities using Stae for their digital strategy, making it a bit more real.
So far, Atlanta and Jersey City started implementing Stae with their existing services. You can think about it as a sort of GitHub meet IFTTT for infrastructure data.
“Cities are still thinking about data as archive files. They’re not thinking about streams of data,” Stae co-founder John Edgar told me.
So let’s take this step by step. First, cities already have many sets of data coming from utilities, public transport, ambulances, residence complaints, traffic cameras and more. Instead of exporting a CSV or Excel file every now and then to look at this data, Stae wants to turn this data into APIs. By doing that, Stae standardizes data sets and it becomes easier to manipulate them.
And Stae is not the only one thinking this way. New York City Council Member Ben Kallos just introduced a bill that asks city agencies to share their data using an API.
Second, Stae provides a single interface to access data and manage authorizations. For instance, you can share data with your citizens by turning some information into open data. The police department could also access some sets of data while the city could restrict access to other sets of data. It’s a good way to granularly manage your vendors.
Finally, Stae wants to link together multiple sets of data to analyze them and draw some conclusions. This is what I call the SimCity part. If you could combine traffic jam data with bike sharing stations in a couple of clicks, you could make educated decisions about future bike sharing stations.
“There’s a challenge trying to understand the relationship between those different sets of data,” Jersey City’s Chief Innovation Officer Brian Platt told me. “You know, it can be done manually. But in government, there’s not always the capacity or frankly the capability to do this.”
Jersey City is trying to turn Stae into the single repository of data. Getting everything in there is already a challenge by itself. When it comes to combining and analyzing data, this is going to take a bit longer.
“We hope to — We’re not there yet,” Platt said. “If we want to intersect bike sharing and weather and crime, we would have to manually analyze everything.”
In many ways, it all comes down to constrained budgets and resources. Jersey City doesn’t have a full-time data scientist, so the local government is relying on platforms like Stae to do the heavy lifting. Having a central repository is already a big change.
While many cities don’t have a big enough budget to upgrade their infrastructure, technology can already make existing infrastructure more efficient. Let’s see if Stae can help cities scale.
Dave Asprey, the man famous for encouraging Silicon Valley execs to put butter in his special blend of coffee, has raised another $19 million to keep on doing just that.
His company and lifestyle brand Bulletproof 360 claims to make coffee free of something called mycotoxins, which is, basically, mold and can make you very ill if ingested. Asprey says about 75 percent of other brands are full of these mycotoxins and they are affecting the brains and bodies of America’s leaders. But for $18.95 you can get a bag of Asprey’s “Upgraded” blend of zero mycotoxins coffee.
But that claim doesn’t seem to hold up. Mycotoxins are in a lot of things, including meats, grains, coffee and a bunch of other foodstuffs and are most certainly harmful in large quantities. However, most every coffee company in the world is aware of this cancer-causing mold and many use wet processing to clean the beans for that reason. Bulletproof says that’s not enough and that it has some extra special technique, but despite whatever that is, some have claimed to have found below threshold levels of mycotoxins in Asprey’s coffee anyway.
Also, according to a National Institutes of Health study Americans who drank more than four cups of coffee a day were found to have well below what’s considered safe levels of mycotoxins. Levels were so low after the normal coffee bean roasting process the NIH discontinued the study so it doesn’t seem like this should be a big concern for coffee drinkers anyway.
As for dissecting the other claims, like a special fat that makes you thin and reduces your cholesterol or that grass-fed butter has health benefits for your brain would make for a much longer post. However, there is some preliminary evidence that medium-chain triglycerides do help with weight loss.
There’s also something to be said for building a loyal following and a solid sales pipeline in the health and wellness field — something not everyone can do in such a crowded space. And Asprey’s own backstory lends to his credibility here. The man lost about a 100 pounds after spending $1 million of his own money in trial and error “hacking” his own body. But really, anyone who can sell something called FATwater (literally water with fat in it) deserves a medal in the sales hall of fame.
While we don’t know the year-over-year sales figures, Bulletproof seems to have done well enough at least to convince VC’s to hand over more money. CAVU Venture Partners led the round, along with previous investor Trinity Ventures (which also, incidentally, invested in Starbucks). Bulletproof previously took in $9 million in Series A, bringing up the total funding to date to $28 million.
Asprey, who just released his latest book, titled HEAD STRONG, also plans to expand to more retail stores this year, starting in New York City. His two existing Bulletproof Cafés are in Southern California.
Samsung announced today that it will begin selling its new 360-degree camera in-stores and online starting tomorrow for $229.
Across the pond, the phone had been available for pre-order for £219, or just over $283, so this is actually a smudge cheaper than some were expecting. Even though the company’s last iteration was priced at $349, those with a thrifty eye could easily find the device available for $170 new from certain online retailers.
Spec-wise the camera isn’t a huge improvement over the last. It’s gone from “near-4K” to “true 4K” video (2K while live-streaming) and its kept the 15 megapixel resolution for still photos.
The most notable shift on the latest model is that the device loses its spherical shape in favor of one that has a bit more of a handle that users can hold. Samsung highlighted the new model’s “pocketable design” when it briefly showed off the device at Unpacked this year alongside its latest Galaxy phones.
Speaking of the S8 and S8+, if you plan on picking one up in the imminent future, you’ll have the option of picking up one of these cameras for just $49. You’ll need to purchase the phone between tomorrow and  June 19, 2017 to qualify. More details here.
The device launching at a retail price $120 less than its previous iteration shows how aggressively Samsung is needing to price these devices in order to get them into people’s hands. Despite tons of startups and large companies getting behind 360-degree cameras early-on, there still hasn’t seemed to be quite that much consumer excitement. Even a form factor change like adding a handle, shows that Samsung is still very much learning how people fundamentally use these devices.
The new Gear 360 is available to purchase tomorrow in-store and online at Best Buy, Amazon, AT&T, Sprint, T-Mobile, Verizon and U.S. Cellular, Samsung and through the ShopSamsung app.
Need more controllers for your Nintendo Switch? If you already have some of 8Bitdo’s excellent Bluetooth, classic system-inspired game pads lying around, you’re all set thanks to a new firmware update. Even if you don’t yet have any of these, it’s worth picking some up since they’re very affordable, ergonomic and stylish.
The update to the controllers expands their versatility to include Nintendo Switch compatibility, but the controllers already work with Windows, Android, MacOS and Steam out of the box, too. With Switch, they don’t support rumble functions or motion controls, but they do pretty much replicated the native Switch Pro controller in terms of functionality, with exact button mapping possible on the NES30 Pro and FC30 Pro controllers from 8Bitdo’s lineup.

This is great timing because Mario Kart 8 Deluxe is the most recent blockbuster first-party release from Nintendo for Switch, and you can play with up to four people on one console locally in multiplayer. You could of course buy up a bunch of official, first-party Switch controllers, but 8Bitdo’s option is great if you already have these or want a controller that works in more places beyond the Switch.
If you’re an existing 8Bitdo controller, go ahead and grab the firmware update for your device from their support site to get Switch compatibility enabled on your device.
Cloud-based communication and collaboration platforms are the name of the game today in enterprise software, and now one of the still-independent leaders in that space is announcing a significant round at a hefty price to ride the wave of growth. Smartsheet, the Bellevue, Washington-based startup that has built spreadsheet software that lets people set and manage tasks and work across teams of people, has picked up $52 million, in what CEO Mark Mader tells me was a pre-money valuation of $800 million ($852 million post-money).
The valuation, notably, is a massive, tenfold leap for Smartsheet. When it last raised money in 2014, the company was valued only around $75-80 million. This Series F, which brings the total raised by the company to $120 million, was led by previous investor Insight Venture Partners, with Madrona Venture Group and Sutter Hill Ventures, and new investor Summit Partners also participating.
Why the big jump in valuation? Part of it has to do with growth of the company itself, and partly with the current climate for socially-minded enterprise software.
Smartsheet, Mader said in an interview, has been growing at a rate of about 60 percent a year for the past five years, with a $100 million annual run rate, and intentionally run not for profit as it continues to grow. The company currently has about 70,000 businesses paying to use the product, ranging from SMBs through to large enterprises. This works out to around 550,000 licensed customers, and “a few million” people who use it free of charge, he said.
Smartsheet’s business model is, as with many cloud-based services, freemium. Everyone can access documents for free, and you only pay if you want access to edit or update a Smartsheet document. This low barrier to entry, where Smartsheet “monetises only those who are initiating and creating work on the platform,” as Mader puts it, essentially lures in many users, some of whom eventually convert to paying customers. (Tiers range from $14 to $25 per user based on your business size, or at a custom rate for large organisations.)
The drive to use Smartsheet is coming from a bigger trend in the market: there has been a large shift from using software hosted by a company itself, or installed directly on your device, to products that are sold, distributed and accessed in the cloud.
Smartsheet was an early mover in that space, opening up for business in 2006 as an alternative to the likes of Excel and other spreadsheet packages on the market, with a firm focus on offering a way for multiple people to collaborate in those documents to use them more dynamically.
In other words, if Excel found a purpose as a place where multiple people could dip in to monitor the progress of something, Smartsheet was created from the start with that in mind.
Fast forwarding several years, the cloud architecture that Smartsheet focused on early has become something of the norm in the business world, with companies like Slack — focused more on communication across teams and apps — and Dropbox and Box — looking at the storage component — now leading the charge and forcing the hand of much larger players like Microsoft to follow along.
“There are documents and communication tools and file synchronization and sharing in the cloud,” Mader said, “and we see automation and work tracking as the final domino in that space.” 
Today, Smartsheet integrates with several but not all of these: part of the funding will be used to expand that list from a current roster that includes the likes of Box, Dropbox and Teams from Microsoft, but not, for example, Slack. That integration is coming later this year, Mader said.
Many investors are racing to figure out what the next great breakaway enterprise collaboration business opportunity might be — there are a lot of contenders. And, by definition, that also means that there are a pretty wide range of competitors to Smartsheet, including Asana, Basecamp, Wrike, Teamwork, Workfront and many others.
Mader says that one of Smartsheet’s unique selling points amongst all these is its automation layer, which essentially incorporates AI to help lead people through tasks and the sheets themselves, rather than relying on people to be able to work everything out for themselves.
“We knew it was only a matter of time before Google and Microsoft would take the spreadsheet into the cloud, and that is what they have done, so we had to do something else,” Mader said. Interestingly, that too may soon become table stakes, with the theory (and evidence) that AI elements will soon be a part of all of our connected services. 
So far, the growth, product and market fit have been a strong combination for investors.
“Collaborative work management is now recognized as a key component of modern enterprise strategy, as companies look to move beyond the limitations of legacy tools,” said Ryan Hinkle, Managing Director at Insight Venture Partners, in a statement. “Since our initial investment with Smartsheet, we have seen an incredible amount of development and growth behind their capabilities. We are committed to continuing  this acceleration so that more companies can benefit from the unique value of Smartsheet.”
DJI is promising “something huge” at this morning’s “Seize the Moment” event in New York City. More than likely, that big thing will come in a small package. The often secretive drone company has apparently been leaking like crazy ahead of today’s big reveal, and we’ve gotten more than few looks at the rumored Spark drone, which is set to make the recently released Mavic massive by comparison.
The company hasn’t made anything official, but earlier this week, it did issue a video teaser that hinted at a device more focused on photos and videos than racing, as was suspected by some following the initial leaks.
The company has also registered the Spark name, lending some credence to that aspect of the rumor. Knowing DJI, it will also have a number of other goodies up its sleeve. At the Mavic event back in September, it also showed off its first-person video goggles, which, at the very least, ought to be getting more face time here.
We’ll have a team on the ground in NYC, posting news and videos from the event. But for those who’d like to watch whole thing unfold live, fixed propellers and all, DJI will be streaming the event for all to see, starting at 11:30AM ET/8:30AM PT.

: Alexandre Suplicy
GREE Ventures, the Singapore-based VC firm connected to Japanese games firm GREE, has closed its newest $67 million fund for early stage investments in Asia.
AT-II — the firm’s second fund — sees GREE Ventures spread its focus of deals in Japan and Southeast Asia to cover India for the first time. The fund has so far made 10 investments across Asia, which includes New Delhi-based PopXO, a media startup targeted at women in India. Typical check size is $0.5-$3 million for seed to Series A deals, and the firm prefers to lead rounds where it can.
Investors in the new fund include the SME Support Japan, Mizuho Financial Group and, of course, GREE itself. GREE Ventures was formed five years ago, and it has invested in more than 40 startups over that period. Its exits to date include Kudo in Indonesia (sold to Grab), Pie (sold to Google) and Luxola, which was bought by Sephora parent company LVMH.
While the GREE business is anchored in games, GREE Ventures is designed to invest outside of that focus to give its parent company reach and insight in new and upcoming tech sectors. That’s a different rationale to the $12 million fund that GREE launched last year to explore opportunities in VR and AR.

: Rrraum/Shutterstock
Consumers increasingly are going online to search for insurance, and when they do, PolicyGenius wants to be right there to help them find the right policy. To expand its offerings and support more customers, the company raised a $30 million Series C funding round led by Norwest Venture Partners.
PolicyGenius has built a marketplace for consumers who want to evaluate multiple insurance carriers and policies all in one place. People searching for a policy can answer a series of questions and find multiple options available to them.
By working with various insurance providers, PolicyGenius has built a quoting engine and allows consumers to compare policies they are eligible for side-by-side. The company also has an “insurance checkup” tool to help customers discover and close gaps in their insurance coverage.
Starting with life insurance, PolicyGenius has gradually expanded its suite of options to include health insurance, renters’ insurance, long-term disability insurance and even pet insurance.
Since announcing a $15 million round of financing in January 2016, the company has grown monthly revenues by 7x and doubled its employee base. With its new round, PolicyGenius hopes to expand its product lines to include property and casualty policies, and also to build out relationships with its partners.
PolicyGenius co-founder and CEO Jennifer Fitzgerald said the company selected Norwest thanks to its work with strong consumer-facing brands such as Casper, Jet and LendingClub. With the funding, Norwest partner Parker Barrile will join the company’s board.
To date, PolicyGenius has raised a total of $52 million in venture funding, from investors that include Revolution Ventures, Karlin Ventures, Susa Ventures, AXA Strategic Ventures, Transamerica Ventures, MassMutual Ventures and Fika Ventures.
Pinterest is adding another ad to its array of products, now allowing advertisers to publish video advertising that will automatically play in the home feed and search, as it continues to bulk up and woo advertisers with a different pitch from Facebook and Google.
Pinterest has had to make the argument to advertisers that its 175 million users behave differently on Pinterest when compared to Facebook and Google, or even Twitter and Snap. Pinterest users come to the site and dig through products and recipes, among other things, for ideas. They then search deeper into topics, save them, and then eventually in theory acting on them later — either by cooking the dish or buying a product. Pinterest’s pitch is that unlike Facebook and Google, which can offer a compelling ad product for one point of that part of a customer’s buying life, it can offer products across the whole timeline.
The ability to catch those possible customers early on and follow them all the way to the final buying process is something that might entice advertisers, but it still has to ensure it has the advertising products to back it up. Today’s announcement, which opens up autoplay video ads to all partners, gives it yet another argument that it can offer something competitive to Facebook — which has shown that video can have greater engagement and offers a potentially lucrative new source of customers.
“The main difference we notice is that some users watch more content direct in their feed,” Pinterest product lead Mike Bidgoli said. “Previously they’d see the preview, and now they’ll take that action. In general, video is a little higher up the funnel [generating brand awareness] activity. We’re trying to bend the curve between that discovery to [taking an action] on our platform.”

Related Articles
Pinterest may indeed have an additional edge in its pitch given that Facebook has had some problems in reporting its numbers. As newer ad products emerge it’s critical to build up that trust with advertisers in addition to showing that the ads can be effective. Pinterest is partnering with Nielsen and Moat to give its advertisers accurate measurements on their ads and the results that they can deliver. That’s going to be important as Pinterest tries to show advertisers that it can tap into multiple different kinds of user behavior on its service, like search.
“That’s a place where people have a lot of intent [to act],” Bidgoli said. “We think we have a shot bringing people both to top of funnel as well as bottom. That would allow us to play with some performance advertisers. They can pair a video with a set of pins that they want Pinner to take action on. That’s still a big part of it. The “do” component, people are on Pinterest to get inspired and then they do that.”
In general, autoplay is the direction that mobile video is headed as a default — and that will extend to advertisers as well. There’s the question around data consumption, but Bidgoli said even though the company obsessed about it initially but found through testing that it “wouldn’t rip any alarms.” Users will still have the option to turn autoplay off in settings if they see fit.
Video offers a new kind of engaging content that users can find when casually browsing around the app, but beyond that Pinterest is trying to diversify its range of products to tie the experience of Pinterest closer and closer to the real world. That might look like its Lens product, which allows a user to point their camera at a product to execute a search, to watching a video for how to cook a dish. But either way, the sum of all these products is an advertising pitch that is an effort to move the company away from those experimental advertisement budgets to a mainstay ad purchase with bigger brands.
As you may have noticed TechCrunch is coming back to Israel with a Meetup + Pitch-off in Tel Aviv because we had a great time last year. The event will be on June 28, at Trask, between 6-10 p.m.
Israel is one of the world’s fastest-growing and most impressive startup ecosystems, and we simply can’t resist coming back. If you feel you have the chops to compete in the Pitch-off, applications are open now! All applications must be in by June 6.
We’ll select approximately 8 to 10 great startups to explain to our panel of VCs and TechCrunch editors in two minutes or less why their startup is awesome. And the best part is that you’ll be competing for an opportunity to attend TechCrunch Disrupt San Francisco or Disrupt Berlin.


First Place: A table in Startup Alley at TechCrunch Disrupt San Francisco or Disrupt Berlin

Second Place: Two tickets to attend TechCrunch Disrupt Berlin

Third Place: One ticket to attend TechCrunch Disrupt Berlin

But that’s not all. Alongside the traditional Pitch-Off, we’ll also have a few guests on our stage for fireside chats. They’ll all be announced soon, so grab your seat and stay tuned!
Buy tickets here!
Also, shout out to our sponsors Leumi Tech and Blonde 2.0.
Send your application and see you soon!
Apple’s found a fair bit of success with Swift Playgrounds since launching it last year at WWDC. According to the company, the educational program has enlisted some one million users into its ranks. And while the dead simple offering is primarily aimed at youngsters, there’s apparently been a fair bit of interest across demographics.
Today’s announcement extends Apple’s Swift-based educational offerings to an older age set, namely high schoolers and college-age students. The company has teamed with a half-dozen community colleges across the country to bring its App Development with Swift program to life, in order to help students enter the work world with app development knowledge.
The very real “app economy” employs around 1.53 in the U.S., according to numbers offered up the company, making up a majority of the two million jobs its says it’s created in the U.S. Certainly it’s important for graduates to possess coding skills. And while Swift isn’t exactly an all-purpose language — designated solely for Apple products –there’s plenty of opportunity in those offerings and something to be said for learning the fundamentals of code, whatever language.
Swift is also designed to be simple, in keeping with the whole Apple ethos. When the company says the programming language was built with education in mind, that’s mostly what it means.
“The first thing Apple wanted Swift to be was approachable, “ Apple VP Lisa Jackson tells TechCrunch. “You don’t have to be a computer science type to interact and learn this language, so it can be a first programming language. But it needs to be powerful enough to write complex apps.”
The program, which is an outgrowth of Apple’s Everyone Can Code curriculum for K-12, is designed to be taught over the course of two semesters – a full school year. Though precisely how it’s broken up will be at the discretion of the individual school. The colleges are apparently getting a fair amount of freedom here.
Apple says it opted for a broad range of education partners to help cover a large gamut of nascent coders. “These are six schools in very different areas of the country,” says Jackson. “Some of them have more women than men. We have a lot of folks who are lower income or underrepresented minorities. A lot are interested in being a part of workforce development because they want to reach mid-development students.”
The app is available starting today for free through iBooks. And while Apple isn’t making any money on app sales, it’s pretty easy to see why it made the effort to develop and pilot the program. Getting Swift into the hands of upstart developers is a pretty clear win for the company, much the same way that Macs and iPads in the classroom helped the company gain a foothold for decades as those students graduated and starting making their own purchasing decisions.
If Swift can be the first a first coding language for young developers, the company will build itself a solid foothold into the future.
Prolific investment firm Naspers is making a push into bitcoin and financial services after it backed Philippines-based startup Coins.ph to the tune of $5 million.
Coins is focused on offering financial services for the unbanked in the Philippines and Thailand. It uses the blockchain as its underlying technology to facilitate transfers and remittances. It announced the new funding — which comes via the Naspers Ventures division — as an extension to the $5 million Series A round that it closed last October.
Naspers, meanwhile, needs little introduction: the South Africa-based firm specializes in e-commerce and consumer businesses in emerging markets across the world. Its investments include Tencent, Asia’s highest value tech firm, India’s Flipkart, and now-Amazon-owned Souq.com in the Middle East among many others. Its primary presence in Southeast Asia is via global e-commerce firm OLX, but it did put money into Singapore-based bitcoin startup BitX in 2015.
“Coins has done an excellent job of providing consumers with easy, cost-effective access to core financial services,” James Caviness, VP and CPO of Naspers’ PayU business, said in a statement. “We expect Coins to continue to grow and expand across Southeast Asia.”
As part of the investment, Caviness has joined the Coins board.
Expansion is exactly the plan, according Justin Leow, head of business operations for Coins. Leow told TechCrunch in an interview that the company is now looking to bring its services to new markets, although he declined to get specific on future destinations.
“The issues we are solving in the Philippines are quite prevalent in the rest of the [Southeast Asian] region,” he said. “Existing financial systems exclude people who don’t meet the income requirements. That issue is why we’ve had such a large unbanked population.”
The banking gulf is indeed huge. Southeast Asia as a region houses more than 600 million consumers. Its internet economy is forecast to reach $200 billion per year within the next decade but financial systems are a key requirement to make that happen. Currently, just 27 percent of the region’s population has a bank account, according to a KPMG report published last year, and that’s where Coins is looking to make an impact.
The startup currently offers a range of services that include credit, basic banking, bill payments, top-up and remittance payments, none of which require a user to have a bank account. Rather than offering services directly, it works with partners to serve users.
“We are really trying to build an ecosystem of services,” he explained, adding that companies like SoftBank-backed Paytm in India are an inspiration. “The goal is a wallet where people store money and can do everything with it.”
Coins claims to have more than one million registered users and support from over 100,000 merchants.

: fsecart/Flickr UNDER A CC BY 2.0 LICENSE
In partnership with TechCrunch, The Europas Conference & Awards, is a different kind of tech startup event which features smaller breakout sessions on key subjects for startups, as well as main-stage speakers and panels. It’s also very different, in that there’s no “off-limits speaker room” at The Europas, so attendees can mingle easily with VIPs and speakers.
What that means for early stage startup founders is that you can go right up to them and talk. And that’s going to be even easier than just looking for a name badge, because the dedicated networking app for attendees will also allow you to check what they look like as well as arrange meetings. You can grab tickets here.
Even better, there’s a special VIP event on June 12, PathFounders, specifically geared to fund-raising startups and investors. This day features special programming, and the chance to pitch your startup in front of angels and VC investors.
Because the conference and awards are supported by TechCrunch all attendees will get deep discounts to TechCrunch Disrupt in Berlin, later this year.
The Europas conference is followed by a glittering awards for the hottest startups in Europe, based on voting by expert judges and the industry itself. But key to it all is the people who come.
So here for you we present a list of just some of the investors who are down to attend either as a speaker or a featured guest. All the speaker bios and the agenda are on The Europas site.
Alex Macpherson, Octopusventures
Alex has been in the same position as many entrepreneurs having started, built and sold his own business. He founded Katalyst Ventures with his colleagues in 2000, creating the private angel network which would later be known as the Octopus Venture Partners. Over seven years, Alex led the business as CEO until its sale to Octopus in August 2007, providing succession plans for the executive team as a series of VCTs were raised to invest into 42 companies alongside the newly branded Octopus Venture Partners. Since 2007, the amount of assets that the Ventures team manages has risen from circa £20 million to in excess of £200 million at a time when the economy has seen the worst financial crisis in a generation.
Alice Bentinck, Entrepreneur First
Alice Bentinck is co-founder of Entrepreneur First, the early stage investor that builds deep tech companies from scratch. EF invests in individuals with computer science and engineering backgrounds and has built more than 100 companies. Their portfolio includes exits such as Magic Pony Technology to Twitter for a reported $150m and Represent to Custom Inc for close to $100m.
Angus Bankes, JustAddRed
Angus Bankes was founder and CTO of Moreover Technologies where he was recognised in the industry as a leader in the area of XML. At Moreover, Angus was one of the main advocates and driving force for the mass adoption of RSS feeds. In 2005 Moreover Technologies was acquired by Verisign (NASD: VRSN) where Angus ran the technology for both moreover.com and weblogs.com. He has now joined the Skimlinks team to cover the area of technology strategy and architecture. Angus gives regular talks to publishers and enterprises on such topics as the future of internet publishing, new distribution methods, social media and OpenID and enjoys forcing his colleagues to watch videos of himself appearing on 90s TV quiz shows.
Barbara Belvesi, Hardware Club
Barbara is an expert on all things Hardware and regular speaker at tech conferences. She is a co-founder of the Hardware Club, which has helped more than 100 founders build and scale amazing hardware companies. Barbara is also co-founder of Elephants and Ventures, a venture boutique whose portfolio includes Prynt, Lima, ISKN, and Kicker. She has been in the Venture Capital industry for many years and has invested in more than 15 startups. Recently, Barbara co-authored a book on the IoT.
Ben Tompkins, Eden Ventures
Ben joined Eden as a General Partner in 2006 and is one of Eden’s Investment Managers.
He joined the Eden team after 18 years of corporate finance experience in Europe and the US, most recently as Managing Director at Broadview International (now Jefferies) where he was responsible for building the global digital media practice. Ben focuses on opportunities in the internet, e-commerce, SaaS and games markets. He currently sits on the boards of Borro, Huddle, Reevoo and Green Man Gaming. What he loves about early stage investing is the daily interaction with entrepreneurs looking to build world-class companies.
Carlos Eduardo Espinal, Seedcamp
Carlos joined first round fund Seedcamp as Partner in 2010. Seedcamp invests smart capital into pre-seed and seed stage startups, providing up to €200k and a lifelong platform of Learning, Network and Capital to support the most ambitious Founders. To date it has invested in almost 200 companies. Prior to Seedcamp, Carlos was a venture capitalist at Doughty Hanson Technology Ventures, an early stage investment firm based in London. There he honed his understanding of what investors look for when considering an investment.
Chrys Chrysanthou, Notion Capital
Chrys joined Notion from Accel Partners where he was a VP on the investment team focusing primarily on B2B opportunities, within infrastructure software, cloud computing, IoT/M2M and Big Data technologies. Prior to Accel Chrys was at Amazon Web Services where he led Business Development efforts of the startup ecosystem, across Europe, Middle East and Africa. Before AWS he was COO of Living PlanIT, a B2B startup technology company in the IoT/M2M space, enabling the development of intelligent and sustainable urban-scale environments.
Daniel Korski, Public.io
Former Deputy Head of Policy, No 10. Special Adviser to David Cameron 2013 – 2016. Contributor to Politico.com, City AM. He has worked in Brussels as an Adviser to the EU Commission, for the European Council on Foreign Relations and as an adviser in the US State Department.
Debbie Wosskow, Allbright
Debbie Wosskow is an entrepreneur, investor and sharing economy expert. She is CEO of Love Home Swap, the world’s leading home exchange site – and recently announced a strategic partnership for this business with Wyndham Exchange & Rentals. Debbie is the author of ‘Unlocking the Sharing Economy’ – the independent review of the sharing economy commissioned by the UK government in 2014. She is also the Founding Chair of Sharing Economy UK – the new trade association for the sharing economy.
Eileen Burbridge, Passion Capital 
Eileen Burbidge is a Partner at Passion Capital, the pre-eminent early-stage VC fund based in London. She brings extensive operational experience to her investment activities gleaned from business and product roles at Yahoo!, Skype, Apple and elsewhere. In addition to Passion Capital, Eileen is also the Chair of TechCity UK, which is the British government-backed organisation supporting digital business across the UK. She is also HM Treasury’s Special Envoy for FinTech appointed by then Chancellor George Osborne; Tech Ambassador for the Mayor of London’s office and served on former Prime Minister David Cameron’s Business Advisory Group.
Felix Peterson, VP Europe Samsung NEXT
Felix Petersen is a serial entrepreneur and investor from Berlin, Germany. He is currently VP and Managing Director Europe at the Samsung NEXT fund, heading early stage investment and M&A. Previously he co-founded plazes.com, one of the pioneering start-ups in the context and location based services area. Founded in 2005 it has been sold to Nokia in 2008. In 2011 he was on to company number two, Amen, which he sold to Tape.tv in 2013. He ́s been a motor for the Berlin startup and tech scene since it’s humble beginnings and has been credited widely for helping to put Berlin on the map. He is an active angel investor and advisor to companies like Soundcloud, and Dataminr and Partner at Faber Ventures in Lisbon. Petersen has had numerous appearances in publications like Wired, the New York Times and many others as well as being a frequent speaker at conferences. Born and raised in Berlin, Petersen has been busy with remote data transmissions since the late eighties and has been building things on the Internet since 1996.
Francesca Warner, Downing Ventures
Check (short for Francesca) joined Downing in June 2015 as an Associate in the Downing Ventures team. Before joining Downing, she worked for three years in creative advertising at AMV BBDO on some of the UK’s biggest brands including BT. She graduated from Cambridge with a first class degree in 2012.
Fred Destin, Accel 
Fred Destin joined Accel in 2014 and focuses on consumer and software investments. He is the lead investor and board member at Deliveroo, Pillpack and KNC. Prior to Accel, he was a partner at Atlas Ventures, where he worked with companies like Zoopla (public), Secret Escapes, Dailymotion (acquired by Orange), PriceMinister (acquired by Rakuten) and others. Fred grew up in Belgium and graduated from the Solvay Business School (University of Brussels). He blogs at: http://freddestin.com
Gabby Kahane, Angel investor
Gabbi has over 20 years experience in creating, positioning and developing the brands of early stage, growth stage and global businesses. He founded his first agency aged 23 and has worked across the entire marketing mix, in every major market and pretty much every sector. He is the founder of Cahane & Associates, a strategy consultancy focused on enabling large corporates to drive innovation and change; discover new business models and revenue streams; improve reputations, influence and value. He is the co-founder of Meanwhile, a ‘Venture Marketing’ firm focused on enabling growth stage companies to identify, create, position, build, develop, grow, acquire and sell brands. He also works with numerous startups and accelerators as an Investor, Advisor and Mentor and has contributed to product, brand and commercial strategy; introductions to co-founders, collaborators and commercial partners; and has raised awareness, capital (and a few eyebrows). He likes being tattooed. A lot.
Harry Stebbings, Atomico
Harry is the Founder of The Twenty Minute VC, the world’s largest independent venture capital podcast with over 100,000 listeners, partnerships with Mattermark and ProductHunt and guests from over 200VCs including the likes of Accel, Kleiner, Y Combinator, Benchmark and Index. He is also a contributor for TechCrunch covering all things startups and VC funding and has recently joined Jason Lemkin at Saastr to build out the platform and expand into new verticals.
Isabel Fox, White Cloud
Izzy Fox is Head of Venture Capital at White Cloud Capital investing in the US, Asia and Europe. Focused on four core sectors: consumer, healthcare, education and enterprise.
Izzy started out in finance, followed by financial PR (tech IPOs) before founding two corporate/tech PR firms. The first sold to Grayling. The second agency – IF Communications – had offices in London, New York and San Francisco and worked with leading brands including Silicon Valley Bank, LG, HP, VideoPlaza, InMobi, Assistly (Desk.com), Socialbakers, Inrix, Groupon, Fjord, Octopus Ventures, Wellington Partners and many, many more great companies. Sold to Photon in 2011. Isabel have been part of the founding team of two software start ups and an active investor in the UK and US. She is an advisor and angel investor in several start-ups including Adbrain, Jumio, BitPay, Get Around, Violin Memory, Tray.io, Cloud House, GetCrane and others.
Janne Kyttanen, WTF VC
Janne Kyttanen (born March 13, 1974, Finland) is a digital sculptor creating multidisciplinary work at the intersection of 3D printing, virtual & augmented reality. Kyttanen’s work has been featured in TIME Magazine’s ‘Design 100’, the people and ideas behind the world’s most influential design. He is best known for his revolutionary work with 3D printing and is considered to be one of the most influential artist designers of his generation. Janne currently resides between his two studios in Amsterdam and Los Angeles.
Jeff Lynn, Seedrs
Jeff Lynn is CEO and co-founder of Seedrs, the leading pan-European equity crowdfunding platform. Seedrs lets investors invest as much or as little as they like in startups they choose, and it lets startups raise capital from friends, family, angels, institutions and the crowds, all through a simple, online process. Seedrs is currently funding over £1 million per month into startups across Europe. In addition to running Seedrs, Jeff serves as founding Chairman of The Coalition for a Digital Economy (Coadec), a non-profit advocacy group for digital startups and SMEs, and as a non-executive director of Companies House, the UK government agency responsible for company registration, filings and data.
Jon Bradford, Motive Partners
Jon was formerly a founder of Techstars London (formerly Springboard), Difference Engine, Ignite100 accelerator programs in the UK; and co-founder of Startup Wise Guys. In a previous life, Jon trained as an accountant with Arthur Andersen, and subsequently has worked in various start-ups and turnarounds. He has worked in London, throughout Europe, Australia and also the United States.
Karen McCormick, Beringea
Karen is a Partner and Chief Investment Officer at Beringea responsible for making new investments and working with portfolio companies through to exit. Her investments include D3O Holdings Ltd, MatsSoft, Sealskinz, Thread, InContext Solutions, and Blis.
Karen also led investments into Monica Vinader, Watchfinder, Eagle Rock and Cross Solar. Karen was previously with the Boston Consulting Group and ran the Watches division of Swiss Army/Wenger. She also has experience with start-ups as both a founder and advisor. Karen has lived and worked in the US, Europe, and Asia, and has an MBA from INSEAD and a BSBA from Boston University. Karen has lived and worked in the US, Europe, and Asia, and has an MBA from INSEAD and a BSBA from Boston University.
Katie Leviten, Jam Jarinvestments
Katie Leviten is general partner at JamJar Investments, the venture capital company set up by the founders of Innocent Drinks.The Oxford University graduate works alongside the three Innocent Drinks founders — Richard Reed, Jon Wright, and Adam Balon — to back early stage tech companies across Europe. JamJar investments has invested in companies like food delivery service Deliveroo, personal doctor app Babylon Health, and sleep tracking app Sleepio since it was founded in 2012. Prior to joining JamJar investments, Leviten was commercial category manager at Innocent and prior to that she held roles at the BBC and Hamilton Bradshaw Venture Partners, where she managed James Caan’s (one of the dragons on “Dragons’ Den”) consumer investments.
Max Kelly, Techstars
Max is currently Managing Director of Techstars London. Techstars is the world’s leading accelerator programme for early stage start ups. Prior to Techstars, Max spent 12 years at Virgin where he was responsible for the strategy of the group and for starting new companies:Virgin Insight – delivered big data consultancy to all the Virgin companiesVirgin Mobile USA – grew to revenues of $1bn within 18 monthsVirgin Mobile Canada – voted best Canadian network in its launch yearVirgin Healthbank – freezing stem cells cryogenicallyThese companies exited for more than $500M for Richard Branson. Alongside his Virgin commitments, Max also co-founded lastsecondtickets.com which was successfully sold in 2014. He started his career at L’Oreal running the UK’s largest haircare brand – the irony was lost on no one. He was a scholar at Oxford University, where he obtained a First Class Degree in Chemistry.
Michael Jackson, Mangrove Capital
Formerly COO of Skype, Michael Jackson is a General Partner at Mangrove Capital Partners. Active across all of Europe, Russia and Israel, Michael spends his time looking for investable projects and advising portfolio companies as they grow into significant operations. His professional life always involved scaling and operating large consumer focused communications businesses. From development of mobile telephone operations, through the roll out of Tele2 in Europe to 26 million customers, to creation and establishment of 9 MVNO operations in Europe, Michael hopped over to Chief Operations Officer role at Skype. Here, with special responsibility for all aspects of Skype’s paid services, he led the organisation into 150 M euro plus within three years
Phillip Moehring, AngelList
Philipp is a startup investor in Berlin. He manages fundraising for European startups at AngelList. Philipp likes companies with technical founder teams, business models that are scalable through network effects, and solve real problems for their users and customers.
Based in Berlin, he’s one of the best connected people in the European tech scene. Philipp was involved in hundreds of startups over 10 years in VC. Prior to AngelList, he spent time at Seedcamp, where he built out the accelerator program and international network; and DuMont Venture and the High-Tech Gründerfonds in Germany.
Raph Crouan, Startupbootcamp IoT
Raphael is the Managing Director & Founder of the Startupbootcamp Internet of Things (IoT) Program in London. He’s a Founding Board Member & Chair for the SMEs in the AIOTI (Alliance for IoT Innovation) at the European Commission. He also founded the French IoT Think Tank – alongside key actors of the industry – to advise the government & support the French ecosystem on IoT trends & key challenges. After spending a few years in Telco & the last 14 at Apple (lately as Head for the Strategy & Business Development for iPhone & iPad in Business in EMEIA), he decided 3 years ago to turn the page on his Corporate life & come back to his love of entrepreneurship & innovation-driven companies. He is also actively engaged within the investment / VC community & angel investor / advisor himself to various Startups.
Reshma Sohoni, Seedcamp
Ms. Reshma Sohoni is a Managing Partner, Foundign Partner, Co-Founder, Co-Chief Executive Officer, and Partner at Seedcamp. Ms. Sohoni co-manages Seedcamp and helped in its founding in 2007. She focuses on investments in B2B, fashion, gaming, travel, and financial services sectors. She serves as Senior Advisor at Anthemis Group. Ms. Sohoni serves as a Vice President at Innovation Advisors, Inc. Prior to joining Seedcamp, she worked with the ventures team at 3i. Prior to that, Ms. Sohoni spent over three years at Vodafone in their commercial strategy team, working across the Europe and Japan footprints in marketing strategy and pricing functions. Her venture capital career started at eVentures India. Ms. Sohoni started her career in the U.S. in investment banking with Broadview (now part of Jefferies). She serves as a Member of Advisory Board of Credo Ventures and a Member of Board of Advisors of LAUNCHub. Ms. Sohoni serves on the European Board of All Hands. She served on the board of Zoombu. Ms. Sohoni has received dual undergraduate degrees in Environmental Systems Engineering and Economics from the University of Pennsylvania and an M.B.A. degree from INSEAD in 2003.
Rob Moffat, Balderton Capital
Rob joined Balderton Capital in 2009 and was promoted to partner in 2015. He is currently a board director or observer with six portfolio companies: Carwow, Wooga, Nutmeg, Prodigy Finance, and Patients Know Best. Other investments he has worked with at Balderton include Qubit, Citymapper, Housetrip, Scoot and Archify. Rob’s focus sector is fintech, in particular insurance and retail financial services. Marketing is a particular area of interest, and Rob is responsible for best practice sharing in marketing across the portfolio. Prior to joining Balderton Rob worked for Google in London, as a Manager in the European Strategy and Operations team. He started his career with five years in strategy consulting with Bain, and holds an MBA from INSEAD and a Masters in Statistics from Cambridge.
Russell Buckley, Kindred Capital
I have turned my successful hobby of angel investing into becoming a full-time VC with Kindred Capital. Kindred Capital is taking a refreshing approach to early stage investing, continuing the founder-friendly approach I’ve been practicing over the last 3 years. Kindred Capital even shares 20% of the fund’s partner profits (carry) with the founders we invest in. Previously, I worked with the UK Government to help the cream of UK tech companies get Series A funding in the Afterburner Programme. This has raised $150 million since April 2014, from investors in the UK and Europe, as well as The Valley and Japan. I’ve also done angel investing via Ballpark Ventures and held a number of advisory and Non-Exec/Chairman roles and mentor startups at TechStars Accelerator.
Sandy McKinnon, Pentech Ventures
Dr. McKinnon brings to CertiVox more than 20 years experience in commercializing technology innovations, the last ten of these as a partner with Pentech Ventures. As a freelance technical and marketing consultant early in his career, and in partnership with Scientific Generics in Cambridge, Dr. McKinnon helped develop and run their Advance Technology Group. He then served as director of Knowledge Transfer & Technology and Research Services at Heriot-Watt University, where he helped in mentoring and fund raising for twelve spin-out companies.
Experienced in protecting and licensing his and his groups’ own IP, Dr. McKinnon has provided deep technical and market due-diligence services in many sectors for a variety of blue-chip companies and venture capitalists. In addition to CertiVox, he also serves on the Board of Directors for Acunu and OmniPerception.As a research fellow at Cambridge University, he working for six years in Nanotechnology with many of the pioneers in the field and earned a Ph.D. in Amorphous Semiconductors. He earned a Bachelor of Science degree in Physics from the University of Dundee.
Saul Klein, Local Globe
Saul Klein is a Partner at Localglobe, a new seed fund focussed on helping London’s most ambitious founders build game-changing businesses. Previously, Saul was a Partner at Index Ventures from 2007 until May 2015. In 2012, David Cameron appointed Saul to be the UK’s first tech envoy to Israel and a Technology Business Ambassador. He will serve as a judge in the Startup Battlefield competition. Saul brings over 15 years of experience successfully building and exiting companies in both the US and Europe as an Etrepreneur, Operator and Seed Investor.Most recently he was the Co – Founder and original CEO at what is now Lovefilm International (Amazon) and part of the original executive team at Skype (eBay).
Sean Seaton Rogers, PROFounders Capital
Sean is a founding Partner at PROfounders Capital. Since 2000, Sean has been investing in technology companies across both the US and Europe at both Balderton Capital (formerly Benchmark Capital Europe) and Commonwealth Capital Ventures in Boston. In addition to the PROfounders portfolio companies, he has in the past worked closely with others such as Bebo, Wonga.com, and ConstantContact. Sean has also worked as a strategy consultant with Bain & Company, in both the US and Europe. Sean received his MBA from the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania, where he graduated as a Palmer Scholar. In addition, Sean graduated with a BS in Chemical Engineering from Rice University.
Sherry Coutu, Scale-Up Institute / Founders4Schools
Sherry is an entrepreneur, investor and advisor who currently chairs the Financial Strategy Advisory Group for the University of Cambridge, the Scale-Up Institute and Founders4Schools. She is a non-executive director for the London Stock Exchange Group and Zoopla. She also is a Tech Ambassador for the Mayor of London and serves on the Science, Industry and Translation Committee of the Royal Society. Sherry was awarded the CBE for services to entrepreneurship in 2013. In 2014 she authored the Scale-Up Report from which the Scale-Up Institute has been created.
Simon Murdoch, Episode1 Partners
Simon set up online bookstore Bookpages in 1996 and sold it to Amazon in 1998. As VP Europe for Amazon, he managed huge growth from start-up through to multimillion turnover and hundreds of staff. As an Angel investor, he has invested in Shazam, been chairman of VideoIsland (now merged with and renamed LoveFilm, and purchased in Feb 2011 by Amazon.com), Zoopla! and Shutl (currently chairman). Simon founded and funded FriendsAbroad.com, a social network for developing language skills and contacts abroad which was successfully sold to Lesson Nine GmbH, operators of language learning site Babbel.com. Simon is currently CEO of StormForward, an e-commerce conversion consultancy which helpsonline retailers to increase their online sales and profits.
Sitar Teli, Connect Ventures
Sitar is a managing partner of Connect Ventures, a seed-stage fund focusing on European internet and mobile companies. Connect Ventures’ investments include: Boiler Room, Citymapper, Typeform, Marvel, and Pact Coffee. Prior to Connect Ventures, Sitar was with Doughty Hanson Technology Ventures for seven years and led that firm’s investment in SoundCloud, where she was a board member for several years. Prior to becoming a venture capitalist, she spent three years with technology M&A bank Broadview (now part of Jefferies).
Stephane Grantchev, LaunchHub
Stephane has 15 years experience in the IT and digital space, big part of it in the mobile/telecom area. He started his career in France, initially as Adviser to the CTO of Sema – large IT integrator (acquired by Atos Origin), and later in Orange / France Telecom where he was Head of Innovations for the Orange France mobile entity. In 2009 Stephane became Sales Director for the CEE region at Velti – a leading mobile marketing and advertising company. Stephane joined LAUNCHub in June 2013, actively supporting the Bulgarian mobile and entrepreneur community and event scene contributing its grow, he co-founded in 2009 MobileMonday Sofia; co-organized in 2013 the Balkan Venture Forum Sofia, large starup-investors conference in Bulgaria. He is passionate about innovation, new technologies as well as meeting new people and building new connections.
Tracy Doree, Kindred Partners
Tracy Dorée is a Founding Partner Kindred Capital. Tracy Dorée is the Co-Founder of Fab UK and serves as its Chief Executive Officer. She serves as Senior Vice President of Merchandising & Design for Europe at Fab, Inc. Tracy Dorée serves as an Investment Manager at MMC VENTURES Ltd. She joined MMC VENTURES in 2008 and is a Member of Investment team. Tracy Dorée is responsible for sourcing and executing new investments and managing individual portfolio companies. Prior to this, she gained experience in investment banking at NM Rothschild and strategy consulting at Accenture. Tracy Dorée served as Non-Executive Director of Base79 Limited. She holds a M.A. in Mathematics (first) from Balliol College, Oxford University.
Tugce Ergul, Angel Labs
“Tugce Ergul is a co-founder at Angel Labs, a global “investor accelerator” based in Silicon Valley. With a presence in more than 40 countries, Angel Labs is the world’s first investor accelerator with a focus on supercharging investor ecosystems all around the world and building connected & educated investor groups. Angel Labs’ goal is to make an impact on the liquidity side of the entrepreneurial equation, democratize venture capital and create smart capital for entrepreneurs. Tugce has been and continues to be a national and international consultant and speaker on economic development, angel and venture financing for numerous countries and NGOs including the EU and OECD. Tugce has worked closely with several countries on their national entrepreneurship programs and with digital & media companies on their startup partnerships.Tugce is also the Chapter Lead of Girls in Tech Italy, an international organization focused on the empowerment, engagement and education of women in tech.
Vishal Gulati, Draper Esprit
Vishal Gulati: Vishal serves as a venture partner specialising in digital health at DFJ Esprit, Europe’s leading Silicon Valley style venture capital firm with over $1b under management. Since 2012, Vishal has been Europe’s leading promoter of investment into the emerging digital health sector and chairman of Digital Health Forum, which supports the best in class digital health companies to grow into global enterprises. Vishal serves on several boards including Horizon Discovery Group PLC (Cambridge, UK), a gene editing company; Fluidics Analytics (Cambridge, UK), a next gen protein discovery engine, Frameshift a healthcare information flow platform (London, UK) and EcoEos (San Francisco, USA), a consumer genomics business. His previous investments include Napo Pharmaceuticals, Glenmark, Renovo and Phagenesis.
Volder Hirsch, Angel Investor
Volker is a mobile veteran with more than 15 years in the space as an angel investor, (co-) founder, advisor and mentor. He is currently the Chairman of Bibblio Learning and a Venture Partner at Emerge Venturelabs’ ed-tech accelerator. He is also a co-founder of Blue Beck, a game and app development studio. He previously was the Global Head of Business Development – Games for BlackBerry where he arrived via the acquisition of mobile social gaming platform Scoreloop where he was Chief Strategy Officer and General Counsel. Prior to this, he co-founded Connect2Media, where he was instrumental to securing funding and shape the company’s face through acquisitions.
Wendy White, Entrepreneur First
Wendy Tan-White is Founder and CMO of fast growth software company Moonfruit which provides small businesses with a simple but powerful DIY website builder giving them total design control. She founded http://www.moonfruit.com in 1999, as CEO raising significant venture capital from Macromedia and LVMH. Moonfruit was sold to Gandi Group in 2005 where Wendy became Marketing Director but catalysed by high growth it was spun back out as a separate company, raising $2.25m from Stephens(US) in Sept 2010 to scale internationally. A BEng in Computer Science from Imperial College, London led her to a career in IT and finance. She was part of start-up team which set up http://www.egg.com, the UKâ€™s first Internet bank. Wendy was also part of the team who set-up http://www.zopa.com in 2004, the first European peer to peer lending website.
So to summarise:
Instead of thousands and thousands of people, think of a great summer event with 1,000 of the most interesting and useful people in the industry, including key investors and leading entrepreneurs.

• No secret VIP rooms, which means you get to interact with the Speakers
• Key Founders and investors speaking; featured attendees invited to just network
• Expert speeches, discussions, and Q&A directly from the main stage
• Intimate “breakout” sessions with key players on vertical topics
• The opportunity to meet almost everyone in those small groups, super-charging your networking
• Journalists from major tech titles, newspapers and business broadcasters
• A parallel Founders-only track (PathFounders) geared towards fund-raising and hyper-networking

• A stunning awards dinner and party which honors both the hottest startups and the leading lights in the European startup scene
• All on one day to maximise your time in London

And what better way to do that in the summer sun, in London’s coolest part of town, with a drink in your hand, the prospect of some great conversations, and a fantastic party and celebration of the European startup scene in the evening.

There are three types of tickets available
• Daytime conference and evening awards tickets (valid all day, June 13th) – this ticket includes the daytime conference and the awards dinner with ceremony and after party. It includes refreshments and lunch during the conference, and the awards drinks reception and dinner. Get your ticket here.
• Evening Awards-only tickets (valid from 18.00 until midnight, June 13th) – this ticket is for the awards dinner with ceremony and after party. It includes the awards drinks reception and dinner. Individual tickets are on sale here.
If you wish to purchase a table for 10 or 12 guest or a half table for 5 guests, please contact petra@twistedtree.co.uk.
• PathFounders (valid 12-13 June including The Europas conference and awards: this ticket is for start-up Founders only (and invite-only early stage investors) and includes the PathFounders programme. PathFounders commences early afternoon on 12 June and ends early afternoon on 14 June. You can apply for a PathFounders ticket here.
PathFounders is the exclusive event for startup Founders, in particular those at an early stage and/or fund-raising. On the day before the Europas on 12 June, by invitation-only, PathFounders will bring together Founders and Investors in a series of exclusive networking experiences in London. This will bring 150 of Europe’s hottest early-stage Founders together with Europe’s best VCs and Angel Investors in a relaxed environment with amazing hospitality.
The Europas Awards 2017 are held in association with London Tech Week and sponsors include HereEast, Highland Europe, ihorizon, JAG Shaw Baker, Orrick, and Fieldhouse Associates.
Interested in sponsoring the Europas or hosting a table at the awards? Get in touch with:
Petra Johansson // petra@theeuropas.com
Taboola, the startup that works with hundreds of publishers to provide a set of links at the bottom of pages directing readers to more content on the site and elsewhere, has long positioned Facebook as the big competitor.
Consumers scanning articles on Facebook, especially on mobile, are less likely to ever visit a publisher’s own site, even more so now with the introduction of Instant Articles that keep readers essentially inside the Facebook experience: hence the push to create more links at the bottoms of stories to try to keep readers engaged and in your own network sphere.
Now, in an ironic twist, Taboola is launching a new format that could be summed up as “if you can’t beat them, join them”. As an alternative to its existing grid of links, Taboola wants now to feature content recommendations in the form of a continuously scrolling list, its own take on, yes, Facebook’s news feed.
The new format is launching first with the New York Daily News before getting rolled out to other publications.
The new Taboola news feed essentially consolidates a number of widgets and links you already have on websites, specifically publishers’ websites, into a larger feed experience: alongside the links to other articles on your own site, and those of other publications in the Taboola network, you will see cards for other services like the weather, videos, and marketing cards for in-app purchases, sponsored content and more — additions that have in part been made possible by some of Taboola’s recent acquisitions like ConvertMedia and Commerce Sciences. 
The germination for adding a news feed comes from the fact that Taboola doesn’t feel like its set of links are a solution, as much as they are part of an ongoing problem. 
“Today, when you look at publishers’ sites, it’s a shitshow,” Adam Singolda, Taboola’s founder and CEO, said in an interview. “You have the right rail, at the bottom you have Taboola, you have newsletter widgets, and commenting and navigation bars. And in mobile it’s even worse.” He said that Taboola’s tests have found that the average user reads one article and then just goes back to Facebook. “Engagement becomes horrible because the experience is really bad.” 
In trying to figure out how to solve that problem, Taboola — which is based in New York but was founded in and still operates in Israel — has taken a page from the new guard of cybersecurity companies: the best way to combat a threat today is to put yourself (or your security system) in the mindset of that threat.
“Even though I have a lot of issues with Facebook they are doing something well, the news feed,” he said. “Scrolling down you are presented with different cards — images or posts or links or videos or ads — but it’s a consistent, ongoing experience. Users don’t have to get to know Facebook all over again each time something new is introduced, and so they keep scrolling, for an hour or more a day.”
The ideal, he said, is to get the 1 billion or so people who see and (potentially) click on Taboola links to spend more than 3 seconds on a page: to move them to three minutes, and perhaps one day to three hours. This is especially relevant in markets where mobile is the primary platform for media consumption and browsing. Singolda said that today in the U.S. and Western Europe, about half of the readers across its network are on mobile. In parts of Asia, that proportion is 90 percent.
Taboola’s news feed is not completely replacing the Taboola grid at this point, but this is Singolda’s long-term intention. It’s one more way to bring in more engagement, but it is also another way for Taboola to differentiate from its lookalike competitors. These include the likes of Outbrain, which has long been the subject of speculation that it will merge with Taboola. Nothing to report on that front yet, Singolda said.
Readers using the new feed will, for now, click out of a publisher’s page to go to a new page in the browser to read stories, with a small option to click back to the originating page. Singolda told me that the idea will be to introduce AMP pages into the mix over time to speed up the jumps, as Taboola is already an AMP partner.
I’ll be looking to see how that plays out, since AMP links currently mean no traffic for the originating or endpoint publications, with Google hosting the speed-up pages on its own URLs. Same, too, goes for the idea of bringing in infinite scrolls, which seem to pose their own kinds of unique challenges for publishers that want to keep readers engaged on their own properties, not floating away on an endless river provided by someone else.
Taboola has raised over $160 million, and Singolda said that it’s profitable and has $100 million of that funding still in the bank.
DocPlanner, the European online booking platform for healthcare appointments, has raised €15 million in Series D funding, just ten months after announcing a larger Series C round of $20 million (~€18m). Leading the round is existing investors Enern Investments, and Target Global, in addition to London-based One Peak Partners.
It brings the total raised by DocPlanner to approximately €46 million, whilst the company says it will use the new capital to open new offices in Brazil and Mexico over the next six months, and for marketing and sales in DocPlanner’s core markets in Southern Europe and Latin America.
DocPlanner operates both a consumer-facing marketplace, and cloud software for private healthcare providers, including individual doctors, dentists and other healthcare professionals (such as dietitians and psychologists), and for small and large clinics.
The medical professionals on the platform can use it to manage their professional profile, such as following and responding to reviews submitted by patients, and, crucially, take bookings through the site.
Behind the scenes, DocPlanner offers calendar management and various other clinic administration/office features, including a personal tele-assistant, and automatic appointment reminders. It claims to process 340,000 bookings per month, up from 200,000 in June last year.
At the time of the company’s Series C round, DocPlanner also announced it had merged with Spanish healthcare platform Doctoralia. The Poland-based startup has also not ruled out further acquisitions of “young, innovative cloud-based software companies” to accelerate the expansion of its SaaS capabilities “with the aim of providing more advanced solutions to doctor practices”.
Mariusz Gralewski, founder and CEO of DocPlanner, says in a statement: “We continue the process of integrating the DocPlanner and Doctoralia teams and have already developed a very coherent and well-functioning organisation with a common mission and strategy. We have been able to take the best practices and capabilities from each business to create something that is way beyond the sum of its parts.
“In addition to consolidating our presence in core markets, our goal with the new funding is to expand our offering to doctors by moving beyond the calendar management. This will also help us accomplish our global mission to ‘make the healthcare experience more human’.”
Emaar Malls missed out on a bid to buy Souq when Amazon picked up the Dubai-based online retailer for about $650 million in March. Now, the retailing giant of the Middle East is making another acquisition to step up its game in e-commerce. Today Rocket Internet — the Berlin-based e-commerce incubator — announced that it has sold 51 percent of Namshi, its Middle Eastern Amazon clone, to Emaar for $151 million.
The deal sets up an interesting competitive landscape in the region, pitting Emaar, the largest brick-and-mortar retailer in the Middle East operating properties like the Dubai Mall, against Amazon, which is now moving into grabbing more revenue and customers in the region via its acquisition of Souq.
Emaar Malls has long been looking to ramp up its presence on the web and said that it will use the new asset to expand its logistics and expand more brands to selling online.
This has also led its head, chairman Mohamed Alabbar, to make a number of other investments in recent months, such as taking a stake in logistics company Aramex; and buying a 49 percent stake in MEVP, a large VC firm based out of the Middle East. A source tells us that he is also planning to invest some $2 billion in all across a range of startups in the region, although this has yet to be confirmed.
Emaar earlier this month also acquired Dubai-based online marketplace JadoPado, and it’s also involved in a joint venture with Yoox Net-A-Porter to expand the latter company’s business into the region.
Perhaps one of Alabbar’s biggest bets has been putting $1 billion into Noon, a new soup-to-nuts e-commerce site that is meant to rival to Souq. Noon has yet to launch, though, and it’s not clear if Namshi will replace, complement, or operate completely separately from it.
(Looking at Emaar’s and Alabbar’s track record, I would not be surprised if Noon turns out to be an umbrella for everything else, or at least based on some of the acquired assets, since building something new from scratch is costly and hard at the best of times.)



“The acquisition of a majority stake in Namshi underlines our digital-driven strategy to leverage the growing e-commerce market in the Middle East and North Africa region,” said Alabbar in a statement. “Namshi offers a perfect fit for Emaar Malls in accelerating its focus on multi-channel retailing, and creating long-term value for its stakeholders.”
Rocket Internet said that it would continue to hold the remaining 49 percent as part of its larger Global Fashion Group operation — an entity it created back in 2014 to consolidate several of its many emerging market brands: Dafiti in South America, LaModa in Russia, The Iconic in Australia/New Zealand, and Zalora in South East Asia.
At its loftiest point, the GFG was valued at over $3 billion, but in 2016 it saw a massive markdown on that to around $1 billion. Today’s deal values Namshi at just over $300 million.
“We are very excited to welcome Emaar Malls as our majority shareholder,” said Hosam Arab, MD of Namshi. “We are confident that this partnership will unlock further opportunities and help accelerate the development of Namshi for the benefit of our customers. We would like to congratulate and thank our team for their tireless efforts in making Namshi the Middle East’s premier fashion ecommerce destination and we look forward to continuing this journey together with Emaar Malls and GFG.”
Namshi said that it was profitable in 2016 on revenues of 555 million UAE Dirham, equivalent to $151 million — the same as the stake Emaar is taking today. But the bigger picture is that Rocket Internet has been bleeding cash. In its last quarterly report, in April, the company reported a loss of nearly $600 million.
Unsurprisingly, to shore up cash, cut out the underperforming parts of its business, and capitalise on what has been working or is appealing to strategic investors, Rocket Internet has been gradually divesting some of its holdings in the GFG and other businesses across its portfolio.
In February, the group agreed to sell a 49 percent stake in Zalora Philippines to the Ayala Group, a conglomerate in the region. Previous to that, Alibaba took a $1 billion investment in Lazada. There are other units in the GFG also being sold off, as we’ve previously reported.
Ikea’s smart light bulbs will answer to voice commands starting this summer. The company announced in a Swedish-language press release that its smart lighting product line, called Trådfri, will work with Amazon Alexa, Google Assistant, and Apple Siri and HomeKit.
Right now, Trådfri can only be controlled with a remote control or an app, but being able to integrate it into whatever digital assistant they already use in their homes makes Ikea’s smart lighting more appealing to tech-savvy people. Furthermore, as one of the largest furniture sellers in the world with 340 stores in 28 countries, Ikea has the power to introduce the concept of smart lighting to thousands of potential new users.
Ikea is notorious for its ability to lure shoppers into buying a lot more than they planned to and Trådfri’s pricing may be low enough to turn it into an impulse purchase, especially for people who are already splashing out on new furnishings and home renovations. Trådfri’s gateway, which is used to control its light bulbs, costs $29.99, about half of the Philips Hue’s $59.99 price tag, and its bulbs start from $14.99.
The retailer, which invests in tech startups through its venture arm GreenTech, also said it plans to launch more smart home products in the next few years. Because of Ikea’s presence around the world, affordability, and the broad appeal of its products, the store’s tech lineup (which currently also includes wireless chargers) can also serve as a forecaster of what in the Internet of Things will ultimately be embraced by consumers beyond just early adopters and have the potential to become as ubiquitous as Billy bookcases.
In Ikea’s announcement, Bjorn Block, the leader of Ikea Home Smart, said “With Ikea Home Smart, we are challenging everything that’s complicated and expensive with the online home. By ensuring that our products work with others on the market, we take another step to meet people’s needs and make it easier to interact with the products for the smart home.”
Unity Technologies, a 13-year-old, San Francisco-based company that makes development tools for video game creators, has raised $400 million in fresh funding from the private equity firm Silver Lake. A “big chunk” of the round went toward purchasing the shares of longtime employees and earlier investors, CEO John Riccitiello told Bloomberg earlier today, explaining that he thinks it “makes sense to let employees buy cars.”
The financing follows on the heels of the company’s last round, closed just 10 months ago, in which the company had raised $181 million from investors led by DFJ Growth.
Others of Unity’s earlier investors include China Investment Corporation, FreeS Fund, Thrive Capital, WestSummit Capital, serial entrepreneur Max Levchin, and Sequoia Capital, which remains its largest shareholder. (Roelof Botha, one of Sequoia’s most powerful investors,  sits on its board.)
Investors valued Unity at $1.5 billion last year, according to the New York Times. This new round reportedly brings the company’s valuation to $2.6 billion.
It’s easy to understand the enthusiasm around the company, whose game engine — code that handles games’ basic operations — radically speeds up the time it takes developers to produce a game.
Certainly, it boasts of a lot of very impressive metrics, among them that:  half of all new mobile games rely on its software for their creation; it powers 70 percent of all virtual reality and augmented reality experiences; its games and apps reach 2.4 billion devices quarterly; and that mobile developers using Unity’s technology generated $12.4 billion in net revenue over the last two years. (Undoubtedly, a big chunk of that derived from last year’s breakout hit Pokémon Go, which Unity somewhat famously powered.)
The company says now that the new funding will be used for what it sees next, including increasingly pervasive 3D visuals that will become more ubiquitous in our lives.
Unity does have competitors. Not one to pass up a potentially lucrative market, for example, Amazon last year introduced its own game engine called Lumberyard. Autodesk introduced its own entrant in 2015 called Stingray.
Meanwhile, Riccitiello is a rock star in the gaming industry. He previously spent five years at the helm of Electronic Arts. He was also an early investor in Oculus VR, another Unity customer.
Today’s Stories 

Weeks after launching the Surface Laptop, Microsoft announces its new Surface Pro laptop replacement
Apple and Nokia bury patent hatchet
Uber says it accidentally underpaid drivers in New York City
 Snapchat now lets you create custom stories for groups of friends and family
Pinterest brings full dish recognition to its Lens camera search

Credits
Written & Hosted by: Anthony HaEdited by: Chris GatesFilming & Teleprompter by: Stacey Jewell
Notes
Tito Hamze is back tomorrow!
Quiqup, a London-based delivery startup that operates a “shop on your behalf” app similar to Jinn in Europe or Postmates in the U.S., in addition to a growing B2B business, has raised £20 million in Series B funding.
Leading the round is Jobi Capital, a New York-based fund, with participation from Transmed, a leading distributor of fast-moving consumer goods, and existing investors.
The company says it plans to use the new capital to expand to other U.K. cities beyond London, and to “kick-start” international expansion.
It also will invest heavily in its tech platform, including recruiting more engineers and data scientists, to improve its algorithm. This will enable Quiqup to provide better delivery estimates and to anticipate demand patterns, co-founder and CEO Bassel El Koussa tells me.

Related Articles
Founded originally to let consumers order anything from its app for local same-hour delivery, and with an initial emphasis on food, Quiqup has since expanded its proposition to become vertical agnostic and to providing last-mile delivery to businesses, too.
The B2B offering takes the form of “Quiqdash,” a web app that allows smaller retailers to instantly order or schedule a delivery, or a full API integration service that incorporates Quiqup’s delivery service into large retailers’ e-commerce solutions.
The latter is currently being used by 25 or so Burger King restaurants in London as one of a number of delivery companies powering the takeout giant’s online ordering and delivery option.
Quiqup has also partnered with Whole Foods in London to be their sole online ordering option via the Quiqup app, as well as ventured into non-food verticals such as independent florists and pharmacists.
El Koussa says that the B2B side of the business now makes up around 45 percent, up from 40 percent in January. He also says there are a number of other partnerships with large retailers that he is unable to disclose at this point in time.
Adds the Quiqup founder in a statement: “As consumer expectations change, retailers of all sizes and verticals will be expected to offer flexible, efficient, and affordable delivery services. Time is a precious commodity for today’s consumer and Quiqup was created to help people make more time for what they enjoy most. Today’s investment brings us one step closer to our goal of bringing on-demand delivery to the mass market, and we’re thrilled to have Jobi and Transmed join us on this venture, as well as to have the continued support of our existing investors.”
Meanwhile, Quiqup says that since launch it has experienced 170 percent growth year-on-year — as meaningless as a percentage metric is — and has delivered more than 550,000 orders. The startup has a headcount of more than 110 employees, and more than 2,000 self-employed couriers, dubbed “Quiqees,” have signed up since the company was started.
As a reference point, consumer rival Jinn recently announced that it has surpassed 1 million completed deliveries since launching in late 2014. It also disclosed that 5,000 couriers are registered with the Jinn app and about 1,000 are active on a monthly basis.
Another high-up person at Uber has left the company. Jim Callaghan, Uber’s general counsel for Europe, the Middle East and Africa, recently stepped down, Recode reports.
His departure, which an Uber spokesperson told TechCrunch is due to personal reasons, is the latest in a series of departures at Uber this year. In the last few months, Uber has also lost its VP of global vehicle programs, head of comms, president, head of AI Labs, VP of growth and SVP of engineering.
Callaghan’s departure comes a couple of days after Uber decided to promote Salle Yoo from general counsel to chief legal officer. Uber is actively looking for a new general counsel, who will report to Yoo once they come on board.
I’ve reached out to Uber and will update this story if I hear back.

: Visual Idiot/Shutterstock
TechCrunch is pleased to bring you Alchemist Accelerator‘s demo day.
Alchemist is one of those rare programs that focuses on enterprise startups. These aren’t your parents’ enterprise companies. Pitches today will span products that help businesses with crowdfunding, wearables, sustainable farming and managing meetings with the power of AI.
Investors and press will hear pitches from 15 enterprise companies. The demos start at 3:00pm PT and are expected to last two hours. You can watch it live here.
Nobal Technologies
The Imirror is the world’s most advanced interactive mirror, helping retail connect with consumers in the fitting room — where buying decisions are made. Team: Pieter Boekhoff (2016 Startup Canada Entrepreneur of the Year, CIS MRU), Thomas Battle (MBA), Alain Kassangana (Masters Eng).
Everykey
The revolution of access control, Everykey can unlock your phone, laptop, car, house or any other device when you’re close by, and also log you into your website accounts! Team: John McAfee (founder of McAfee Antivirus), Simon Boag (former president of Chrysler and GM), Chris Wentz (who made more than $100,000 in college selling iPads), Max Simon (started a haunted house in middle school and grew it to millions in annual revenue).
Flowzo
The fastest internet service powered by locals that helps property owners generate cash flow. Team: Thu Nguyen (5G/Wireless at TELUS/Marvell, Waterloo Engineering), Andrew Ta (managed technology strategy teams at both of the largest Canadian telecoms: TELUS/Bell, Ivey MBA), Chris Yap (shipped fiber chips at Marvell, previous startup focused on 60GHz Hardware, Stanford Engineering).
Visage
Smart crowdsourcing platform allowing companies to find and engage instantly with diverse talent. Team: Joss Leufrancois (co-founded Aldelia, a $50 million recruitment business established in nine countries), Emmanuel Marboeuf (former technical expert and international speaker in cyberdefense innovation).
Amper
Helps plant managers in factories increase machine and labor productivity by having real-time access to key metrics of machines. Data is captured using a simple, non-invasive retrofit sensor that monitors across machine types. Team: Akshat Thirani (CS Northwestern University, won the Thiel Summit pitch prize), Phil House (CS Northwestern University), Sachin Lal (CS Northwestern University, won the 2016 MIT Clean Energy prize).
Uptime (previously EyePiece)
Building a smarter industrial communication system using wearables. Team: Will Schumaker (PhD in optics from Stanford/UMich), Michael Leung (PhD student in EE from Stanford/Waterloo).
ContextSmith
Enterprise sales and expansion platform that uses AI to maximize revenue for sales and account management teams. Team: Will Cheung (head of customer success at Sequoia-backed startup, CS from CMU), Jochen Bedersdorfer (Intel AI Group, VP Eng of text analytics startup).
Edyza
High-density Internet of Things for industrial IoT, smart agriculture and other use cases that involve scaling sensors and actuators to thousands in close proximity. Team: Rana Basheer (PhD, principal scientist Broadcom, Garmin), Atul Patel (OneScreen, Jornaya and OptimalSocial).
HydroVirga
High-sensitivity NMR detection for elemental analysis in water. Our unique IP allows for detection of trace contaminants in real time, using micro NMR technology. Team: George Farquar, PhD (former LLNL), Julie Bowen, PhD (former LLNL), Mark Stephenson (20+ years water industry experience).
Privacera
Data security platform for enterprises to manage and mitigate risks with sensitive data in one place. Team: Balaji Ganesan (former XA Secure, acquired by Hortonworks), Don Bosco Durai (former XA Secure, acquired by Hortonworks, former Bharosa, acquired by Oracle).
Stellic (previously Metis Labs)
Student success platform designed to help students organize their college journey and graduate on time. Built by students, for students, this solves growing student retention problem faced by higher education. Team: Sabih (CMU CS ’15), Rukhsar (CMU CS ’15), Jiyda (CMU IS ’15).
MeetingSift
AI-driven meeting collaboration platform that delivers deep actionable insights from meetings across the enterprise. Team: Alex Bergo, PhD (Expert Collab., NLP, ML), Viil Lid, PhD (Collab. tech., HCI, Analytics).
Fuse
Next-generation inventory software. In the U.S., $1 trillion, or 20 percent of retail sales, are Lost every year because of stockouts and overstocks. We prevent this loss by algorithmically generating a demand forecast and centralizing it with real-time sales, inventory and procurement data. Team: Anna Tolmach (Wharton, Stanford MBA), Rachel Liaw (Stanford, UCLA, JD Candidate, 2018), Bridget Vuong (Stanford University, MS CS).
Moesif
Platform that makes sense of the world’s API data to change how APIs are created, debugged and used. Team: Derric Gilling (Intel Xeon Phi CPU Architect, Computer Eng @University of Michigan), Xing Wang (Executive Producer @Zynga, previously Microsoft, Computer Science @MIT).
Farmwise (previously DeepLook)
Sustainable farming at scale. Team: Sebastien Boyer (CS MIT), Thomas Palomares (MS&E Stanford).
Text IQ
Protecting enterprises from high-stakes legal disasters by using AI to identify sensitive, reputationally damaging and privileged documents that frequently get missed by human analysts and attorneys. Team: Apoorv Agarwal (PhD in Computer Science, Columbia, original contributor of IBM Watson), Omar Haroun (JD/MBA, Columbia, 3x founder with recent exit).
Deep Relevance
Internal fraud monitoring platform that uses behavioral AI to help finance and audit teams prevent employee and vendor fraud. Team: Kiran Ratnapu (VP Risk Technology, Merrill Lynch, MIT, IIT Bombay), Prasanna Kumar (healthcare and machine learning at Epic and startups, IIT Bombay CS).
Strypes
3D visualizations powering new digital experiences for consumers across all devices and browsers. Team: Alexa Fleischman (EMC, Box, Boston College), Zack Fleischman (Microsoft Xbox, Zynga, Carnegie Mellon University), Matt Schiller (The Advisory Board, Cornell University).
The History Project
Empowering organizations to document, share and present institutional knowledge through a visual collaboration tool. Team: Niles Lichtenstein (Harvard, Monitor, Ansible — acquired by IPG, Velti — acquired by Blackstone), Michael Devin (principal tech architect at Frog, DARPA Director’s Medal, GE), Ben Yee (ITP, UX at Gilt Group).
Netherlands-based Minibrew has raised $2.8 million in seed funding after completing a successful $350,000 crowdfunding campaign to bring some smarts to the home-brew process.
The Minibrew is a little keg with a big brain. When we first met the company in 2015 they offered a whiff of high-tech to the brewing process, adding a monitored brew vessel and mobile app to the age-old technique of slopping a bunch of wheat, yeast and hops together until something tasty came out. Founders Bart van de Kooij and Olivier van Oord have partnered with multiple international breweries to offer recipes for the machine, and they plan on shipping the final product in Q1 2018.
The team is proud to be able to offer full control from wort to bottling.
“In terms of brewing machines that claim to deliver beer, such as ‘fully automated home brewery’ they both forget a critical step: fermenting,” said van de Kooij. “Although the others have a fermentation process, it is manual and not automatic as promoted. This might work for some who have knowledge and want to play with fermentation time and carbonation levels, but the brew quality will ultimately suffer in flavor and users will not be able to reproduce the same brew again.”
“We stumbled on the idea through experimenting a lot with brewing our own beers while working. We were seeing a massive upswing in do-it-yourself brewing, but discovered actually creating accurate and replicable beers was quite hard,” he said. “The current players out there were not fulfilling a user-experience to make quality beer. We thought it was time to change the beer space and bring the fun of discovering great taste back to get everyone into brewing.”
The system is also now far more automated and the team has slashed the price from a heady, hoppy €2,000 to €999, a welcome change. The kit can create multiple styles of beer, including wheat and IPA. The best thing? The kit turns into a portable keg once you’re done with the fermentation process.
Is $1,000 for an automatic keg still too expensive for you? Why not try simply carbonating some water and adding a little flavorless vodka to create Bud Light on the cheap? Home brewing, as they say, is easy!
Advertisement		



It wasn’t very long ago that bitcoin felt nascent, laughable and small. In the ensuing years, bitcoin has matured, become far less risible and grown massively.
Underscoring bitcoin’s maturation, the currency set new price records this week as the value of a single coin crossed the $2,000 threshold. Since bitcoin was announced in 2009, and certainly since I first wrote about it in 2013, the ecosystem of cryptocurrencies has exploded.
Cryptocurrencies have expanded since the days bitcoin shared some of the media’s spotlight with litecoin and the silly-by-design dogecoin. It was a time when Mt. Gox ruled, cupcake shops could become media darlings by accepting the digital currency and pizza was a critical bitcoin-pricing metric.
Now, there are dozens of cryptocurrencies worth eight figures, and the birth pace of new entrants is accelerating.



Alex Wilhelm
Contributor



Alex Wilhelm is the editor-in-chief of Crunchbase News and co-host of Equity, TechCrunch's venture capital-focused podcast.

			More posts by this contributor:			
Salesforce marches steadily toward $10B run rate goal
Equity podcast: Uber’s losses, Cloudera’s IPO and the biggest e-commerce acquisition ever



In that particular milieu of freshly launched coins is a newly famous transaction type we need to understand called the “Initial Coin Offering” or ICO. An ICO is akin to an IPO, but in temporal reverse (sort of). Although confusing, it has recently acquired prominence as a favored way to launch a new cryptocurrency.
But as is typical of nascent cryptoproducts, there are legal questions and unethical players in the mix. So let’s explore what an ICO is in the current cryptocurrency market.
ICO basics
An ICO is a fundraising tool that trades future cryptocoins in exchange for cryptocurrencies of immediate, liquid value. You give the ICO bitcoin or ethereum, and you get some of Billy’s New Super Great Coin or the infamous CrunchCoin.
The Financial Times calls ICOs “unregulated issuances of cryptocoins where investors can raise money in bitcoin or other [cryptocurrencies],” which is accurate, especially if you underline the word “unregulated.” We’ll get to that in a moment.
Sticking close to the older financial publications, The Economist also took a look at the financing mechanism, describing what you buy in an ICO in the following fashion:
ICO “coins” are essentially digital coupons, tokens issued on an indelible distributed ledger, or blockchain, of the kind that underpins bitcoin, a crypto-currency. That means they can easily be traded, although unlike shares they do not confer ownership rights. […] Investors hope that successful projects will cause tokens’ value to rise.
The referenced value increase is critical to understanding the appeal of ICOs. These are not transactions of love. They are investments made in hopes of quick, strong returns..text .crunchreport h3 {color:#fff}

		Latest Crunch Report 







Element Raises $102 Million | Crunch Report





Watch More Episodes



Notably, not all ICOs are for cryptos that will maintain their own blockchain. According to the crypto-focused Smith + Crown research group, some ICOs are actually “launching ‘meta-tokens’ built on Ethereum, Bitcoin, NXT or others.”
After all, why not.
So ICOs can be coins on top of coins funded by the transfer of other cryptos to accounts in the hunt for what’s next. That might sound crazy, but it’s hot times in the crypto world.
And that heat is keeping ICOs bubbling. The same Economist piece, published in April of 2017, notes: “[n]early $250m has already been invested in [ICOs], of which $107m alone has flowed in this year,” a metric that it attributes to the aforementioned Smith + Crown.
That is a lot of money, making ICOs large in terms of their sheer dollar-scale. It’s therefore not hard to understand why more traditional business publications are paying attention. Following the money is their jam.
In short: ICOs are the new funding slingshot by which nascent cryptos are flung into the world.

Thieves, lies and laws
As with any boom, there are bad actors to be found in the land of ICOs. Given bitcoin and the larger cryptocurrency world’s deep tradition of enduring bad behavior, it is not a surprise that ICOs are attracting humans of base intent.
ICO fraud and skullduggery is common enough that a quick search yields heart-melting headlines like “Ver Backed Qtum Founder Ran Previous ICO Scam,”  “To everyone that bought into the Matchpool ICO, it looks like it was maybe a scam…,” and “A Digital Currency Scam is Misusing the Rothschild Family Name.” All of the articles are from this year to date.
In the world of ICOs, fraud is never hard to find. Add in regular sums of incompetence that any new venture could fall prey to, and ICOs feel a bit Old West.
Laws
But what about regulation, you reasonably protest. Surely that must exist to protect consumers?
Returning to Smith + Crown, skirting usual rules concerning fundraising is nearly normal in the realm of ICOs — at least partially explaining why guard rails in crypto offerings may remain a homegrown affair:
Most ICOs today are marketed as ‘software presale tokens’ akin to giving early access to an online game to early supporters. In order to try to avoid legal requirements that come with any form of a security sale, many ICOs today use language such as ‘crowdsale’ or ‘donation’ instead of ICOs.
So regulation is out of the mix for now.
There is an argument to be made that a dearth of regulatory oversight is actually good, as it allows the ICO market to iterate and innovate quickly. It is a reasonable(ish) argument and likely technically correct, but that doesn’t mitigate the potential for unsophisticated investors to be preyed upon.
Caveat emptor and moral hazard are fine arguments in favor of no rules regarding ICOs and cryptos, but if the market wants to keep growing, it will need to do more to attract consistently larger pools of capital.
Bubble me this
Is there a chance that ICOs will slow? Of course, but the forces behind them run a bit deeper than we might have first guessed.
CryptoHustle makes the related point in a recent article that “ICO mania is likely due to early Ethereum adopters making serious returns after the last bull run.” Etherum’s run has certainly been staggering. If it is fueling the ICO craze, we could be in for a long cycle.
Regardless, the point doesn’t mean that cryptomarkets are as they should be. That ICOs would eventually get ahead of themselves and bubble like so many young technology niches was predicted at least since last October. How long the good times will last isn’t obvious. But the correction will come, as always, and when it does, we’ll see which cryptos have a real shot.
Take this away
The cryptocurrency market is hot once again. And while it continues to set new records, a host of altcoins will demand its slice of the market.
Should you buy into an ICO? Only if you have a massive appetite for risk, zero fear of losing your capital and are willing to take a flying chance on an idea that could flop.
Then again, crowdfunding has similar risks and seems perfectly healthy. Your call.



Apple has developed a testing procedure for drivers who would act as failsafe controls during autonomous vehicle testing, documents discovered by Business Insider via a public records request show. The documents detail the testing procedure that Apple has created in order to comply with the California Department of Motor Vehicle’s rules regarding autonomous testing on state roads.
Business Insider’s report on the documents detail the development platform being used by Apple in its testing, which include sensor hardware and software for monitoring surroundings, and which are called the “Apple Automated System.” It can control steering, acceleration, deceleration and “portions of the dynamic driving task,” according to forms filled out by Apple officials. So basically, it’s like any other autonomous driving tech in development.
The documents also reveal that cars used for testing include steering equipment culled from consumer gaming controller equipment (Logitech wheel and pedals, specifically) to provide them with the means to take over control of the vehicle. Driver proficiency with identifying the need to take over, as well as their actual ability to take action, are then tested using seven different tests, which is Apple’s way of fulfilling a requirement dictated by California law that safety drivers be tested prior to deploying test vehicles on the road.
These documents don’t shed much in the way of new light on Apple’s plans for autonomous driving – the company was previously granted a license by the California DMV to conduct autonomous testing, a process which includes public listing of the company name on a list on the DMV’s website. Apple’s permit covers three 2015 Lexus RX450h SUVs, which is the car that Google has been using for its own self-driving tests, as well as six drivers.
The scope of the project and the details of the testing and development system don’t reveal much about Apple’s ambitions or strategy in this market. Others on the California DMV’s list include startups, suppliers and companies still in stealth, at various stages of the development process. For Apple, this could easily be an experimentation that never results in any kind of product – a step up from filing a patent application, essentially, but still galaxies removed from, say, reports that production lines are spinning up for the next iPhone.
Still, the documentation provides some more substance to the initial DMV license grant, and strongly suggests that keeping a close eye on the DMV’s next public release of its disengagement reports from vehicle testers is a good idea.
Top image depicts a Lexus RX450h as used by Apple per DMV documents, but a later model. Credit: Lexus.
In preparation for a preliminary injunction hearing next month, Waymo today filed new claims in its lawsuit against Uber, alleging that its competitor withheld information about technology Uber is using in its development of self-driving cars. Waymo is in the midst of a contentious lawsuit against Uber, in which it claims Anthony Levandowski, a former Google employee, stole confidential material and used it to jumpstart Uber’s self-driving program.
Uber claimed earlier this month that its LiDAR system, code-named Fuji, isn’t ready and therefore isn’t being used in its self-driving cars, which rely instead on commercial systems furnished by Velodyne. Waymo now says that Uber worked on a second system that more closely copies Waymo’s designs (Waymo’s LiDAR relies on a single-lens system, while the Fuji is multi-lens).
Waymo also claims Uber participated in a “cover up” to keep its second, un-named design hidden from the court. “They were hiding a device,” Waymo’s lawyers said.
A spokesperson for Uber told TechCrunch that this second system was never developed into a fully-realized prototype and amounted only to a few unassembled parts. These parts were shown to Waymo, Uber said.
Waymo apparently learned of the second device during an Uber employee’s deposition on April 13. Asheem Linaval, an electrical engineer at Uber who previously worked for Google and for Levandowski’s early self-driving company 510 Systems, told lawyers during the deposition that he worked on two LiDAR systems for Otto — Fuji and another system.
“It is a LiDAR that we wanted to — it was a prototype LiDAR,” Linaval said of the other system, the name of which is redacted in court filings. That and Fuji “were our only two internal LiDAR designs,” he added. 
Related Articles
Uber denies Waymo theft claims on grounds it never used custom LiDAR
Uber finds one allegedly stolen Waymo file – on an employee's personal device
Google claims Levandowski launched competing projects long before Otto
Uber's Anthony Levandowski invokes Fifth Amendment rights in Waymo suit
Waymo pursued arbitration with Anthony Levandowski before it sued Uber

Waymo, the self-driving car company owned by Google parent company Alphabet, sued Uber in February for patent infringement and theft of trade secrets. Waymo claims that its former employee Levandowski downloaded 14,000 confidential files before leaving to launch the self-driving truck company Otto, which was acquired by Uber mere months after it debuted. Waymo argues that the 14,000 documents are being used to develop Uber’s self-driving technology, while Uber contends that the files never made it onto its servers. As for Levandowski, he’s asserted his Fifth Amendment rights broadly and hasn’t publicly addressed the allegations of theft.

Featured Image: Bryce Durbin/TechCrunch
They’re back! HBO’s “Silicon Valley” is set to return to television, with the fourth season debuting this Sunday.
We had a chance to watch the first two episodes at the premiere and can confirm that they’re very funny (and filled with TechCrunch references). We also sat down for a video with the stars of the show, and got a few hints about what to expect this year.
“Richard branches out on his own outside of Pied Piper and pivots on his own,” Thomas Middleditch said about his character leaving the company he founded. We’ll see some “special stress on the relationship with he and Jared,” the character played by Zach Woods. There’s also “drama between Richard and Dinesh,” Kumail Nanjiani’s role. 
Previous seasons of the show follow the trials and tribulations of “Pied Piper,” a startup that changes course multiple times to stay alive. The personalities of the startup characters and also the venture capitalists they encounter are eerily similar to some of the real people in the community here.
Executive Producer Mike Judge, known for past comedies like “Office Space,” “Beavis and Butt-Head” and “Idiocracy,” was inspired by the brief time he spent working in Silicon Valley after college. 
While the show definitely has a cult following here in Silicon Valley, we asked them why the story resonates throughout the world.
“Everybody uses technology. Everybody uses these apps,” said Nanjiani. It’s “inherently interesting to people to see the behind-the-scenes of how those are apps are made and how they become important and how they come to you.”
Several of the cast members have been inspired to work with startups in real life, with Amanda Crew telling us she’s made a few private investments. Middleditch said he’s particularly enthusiastic about WaterFX and Wright Electric. 
They don’t always keep up with tech news, however. When asked if they read TechCrunch, Nanjiani quipped, “Do you want us to say we do?”
Today’s Stories 

Q&A app Quora valued around $1.8 billion in $85 million fundraise
Elon Musk’s Neuralink wants to turn cloud-based AI into an extension of our brains
Duolingo launches paid subscriptions as it experiments with new ways to monetize its service
Snap acquires the crucial geofilter patent from Mobli for a record $7.7M

Credits
Written and Hosted by: Anthony HaFilmed by: Matthew MauroEdited by: Chris Gates
Notes
Tito Hamze is on vacation until April 27. God, I’m so jealous.
YouTube today claims to have fixed an issue with its service that was causing it to incorrectly filter content in “Restricted Mode” and hiding a large selection of LGBTQ+ videos as a result. The company had come under fire last month when it was discovered that users who turned on “Restricted Mode” — a setting that allows YouTube users to filter out the site’s more mature content — were no longer able to see a number of innocuous videos referencing same-sex relationships.
The intention of “Restricted Mode” is to offer a more family-friendly version of YouTube that hides videos that include adult content — including those that focus on subjects like health, politics and sexuality — that aren’t appropriate for children.
But the feature was not working properly, having gone so far as to hide videos like a wedding ceremony, for example.
One YouTuber, Rowan Ellis, posted a video about the issue titled “YouTube is Anti-LGBT?” to bring attention to the problem, and hashtags like #YouTubeRestricted and #YouTubeIsOver erupted across Twitter as more users began reporting their own videos were also hidden, along with others about LGBTQ+ topics.

YouTube in March admitted and apologized for the error, addressing the community via a blog post that explained how Restricted Mode works. There, it promised to do a full audit of its systems to see what was going wrong.
The company said at the time that the feature “isn’t working the way it should,” and added “we’re sorry and we’re going to fix it.”
Today, YouTube says it has completed its investigation and fixed an issue on the engineering side that was incorrectly filtering videos.
As a result, 12 million additional videos are now available in Restricted Mode, including “hundreds of thousands featuring LGBTQ+ content.”
It has also addressed another issue with YouTube’s flagging system, and is now offering a form that allows creators and viewers to alert YouTube when a video is inappropriately excluded from Restricted Mode via its automated systems. That way, if a similar problem occurs again — even in other categories of videos — users and creators have a formal means of reaching YouTube.
The new blog post details how and when videos are filtered in general, explaining that it removes videos containing discussions of drug use and abuse, detailed conversations about sex and sexuality, graphic violence or events related to terrorism, war, crime and political conflicts that resulted in death or serious injury.
In the area of sex and sexuality, YouTube says that it will allow some “educational, straightforward conversations about sexual education” in Restricted Mode, but admits this is a particularly difficult category to filter.
The problem on this front is broader than YouTube filtering LBGTQ+ content, in some cases, because parents have varying viewpoints (particularly in the U.S.) about how much educational material about sex a child should have access to at all — just see the ongoing controversies about sex education in schools as an example.
The company does not detail what engineering problem was incorrectly flagging videos, but it does lay out a vision statement for how it wants Restricted Mode to operate.
It says, simply, that YouTube Restricted Mode “should not filter out content belonging to individuals or groups based on certain attributes like gender, gender identity, political viewpoints, race, religion or sexual orientation.” 

Featured Image: Gary Waters/Getty Images
Scott Lenet
Contributor



Scott Lenet is President of Touchdown Ventures. 

			More posts by this contributor:			
“Darth Ventures” and the efficacy of Sith management techniques




Innovation is a hot topic, and it can be confusing for large corporations. With terms like incubator, accelerator and corporate venturing frequently mentioned, but rarely defined, the menu of innovation options can be overwhelming.
A useful framework for understanding corporate innovation distinguishes what “innovation assets” are controlled by the corporation from what belongs to others.
These innovation assets include everything from patents, technology, inventions, business models, customer contracts and even legal entities. For the purposes of this framework, let’s explore these assets and define whether they are inside or outside of corporate control, to understand the different types of corporate innovation.
For the record, corporate venturing is an umbrella term that can include all of the approaches described below.
R&D: Inside-Inside
Research and development has been an innovation lifeblood of our economy for nearly 50 years, and continues to be important for corporations. According to the National Science Foundation, in 2015, corporate R&D accounted for $355 billion out of a total U.S. investment of $499 billion in research and development.
Per our framework, these corporate innovation efforts start inside (as research) and stay inside (as development). The innovation assets begin as fundamental science and engineering, patents and business plans, potentially turning into new products or even entire lines of business for “intrapreneurs” attempting to complement or extend the company’s core business. These internal innovation efforts represent an opportunity for corporations to disrupt themselves, as they chart the path of their evolving businesses.
The corporation maintains full control of its R&D innovation assets at all times.

Incubators: Inside-Outside
Like R&D, incubation is a form of internal innovation. In the most common incubator model, ideas are generated inside the corporation, developed and then spun out. Because the entity that owns the incubator plays such a prominent role in creating the new business, incubators often receive equity ownership stakes similar to those of startup founders. Incubators typically recruit entrepreneurs to take ownership of the startup, although sometimes internal employees spin out along with the new company. Not all internally incubated business concepts are spun out, in which case they are functionally similar to R&D.
Corporate incubators nearly always focus on sectors relevant to the parent company, and there are many examples of successful corporate incubation programs and startup spin-outs, including:

McDonalds’s spin out of Red Box (acquired by Coinstar for $150-plus million)
 Google’s spin out of Niantic Labs & Pokémon GO (reportedly worth $3.5 billion)
  Oracle Labs’s development of the Java programming language
  Amazon’s Lab 126 creation of the Kindle, Echo and Fire products

According to New Markets Advisors, a significant portion of Fortune 500 companies —  including Procter & Gamble, IBM, Walgreens and The Hershey Company —  have some sort of incubator efforts in at least one business unit. On the other hand, incubation can be difficult. A 2012 study of 300 corporate incubators stated that only half deliver on their strategic goals, and only a quarter deliver on their financial goals.
It’s also important to note that not all incubators are housed inside corporations. Idealab is a successful 20-year-old startup studio in Pasadena, California that has launched more than 150 startups, but is independent from any specific corporate parent. In addition to its accelerator and venture fund, Betaworks also operates a “startup studio” that founds new companies, develops the concepts into fundable businesses and spins them out.
In the corporate incubator model, the corporation maintains full control of its innovation assets until such time as the new company is spun out. The corporation may maintain partial control after the spin out.
Accelerators: Outside-Inside-Outside
Accelerators are examples of external innovation, in which startups are born “in the wild” and apply to participate in a limited-time program with a mix of academic curriculum and unstructured elements. The programs deliver benefits that leave the startups in an advanced condition compared to when they started. These benefits include mentorship, technical product assistance, business development introductions, recruiting support, legal services, fundraising advice and sometimes capital investment, as well. As a result, innovation assets start outside the corporation, go inside the accelerator and then return to the outside economy, after completing the program.
If you are trying to distinguish between incubators and accelerators, remember this rule of thumb: If a startup can apply to participate in the program, it is an accelerator, not an incubator.
Accelerator programs are often affiliated with corporations but managed by third parties. Techstars is the most visible example of this approach, operating programs for Amazon Alexa, Barclays and Cedars-Sinai. These programs typically offer investment in exchange for ownership, usually between 5-10 percent of the startup’s equity, and not approaching the “co-founder” stakes in the incubator model. These programs provide corporations with the opportunity to explore commercial deals with startup participants. As with incubators, there are many successful accelerators that are not affiliated with corporations.
In the corporate accelerator model, the corporation maintains limited control of a startup’s innovation assets during the time the startup is participating in the accelerator program. If the terms of the accelerator program also include an investment, or board representation, the corporation may also maintain limited ongoing control.

Venture Capital: Outside-Outside
Corporate venture capital (“CVC”) activity is increasingly mainstream, having accounted for 44 percent of all capital deployed in U.S. venture capital deals in 2016, according to PitchBook. In this external innovation model, a startup is funded by a corporation seeking to accomplish a mix of strategic and financial objectives. The innovation assets (i.e. the startups) begin outside the corporation and remain outside the corporation.
Like an accelerator, corporate venture capital arms take a minority equity position in the startups they fund, but the size of the ownership stake depends on the amount of the investment, the stage of the startup and other market conditions. Other key differences include the rate at which startups are added to the portfolio (a corporate venture program typically adds fewer investments per year than an accelerator) and the depth of involvement (a corporate venture investment often leads to a substantial ongoing relationship).
While CB Insights reported that 107 new corporate investors made their first investment in 2016, other programs were quietly cancelled. As with incubator and accelerator programs, it can be difficult to maintain these innovation efforts. Corporate venture capital efforts can fail if they are not run according to industry best practices, if they do not receive sufficient executive support or if they do not deliver measurable results in a reasonable period of time.
In the venture capital model, the corporation maintains limited control of a startup’s innovation assets from the time of investment until an exit occurs. The extent of the corporation’s influence on the startup will vary according to the terms of the investment, including whether the investor receives board representation.
M&A: Outside-Inside
Mergers & acquisitions is a well-understood technique for bringing external innovation in-house, with $1.7 trillion spent by U.S. and European corporate buyers, according to PitchBook. In this model, innovation assets (i.e. startups and established companies) begin outside the corporation and are brought inside the corporation via acquisition.
In the M&A model, the corporation maintains full control of a startup’s innovation assets beginning at the time of acquisition.
R&D has long been a trusted methodology for internal corporate innovation, while M&A is an established way to bring external innovation under corporate control. Over the coming decade, ongoing corporate exploration of the incubator, accelerator and venture capital models will expand the use of these additional forms of external innovation, too.

Featured Image: Thibaut Milan/Flickr UNDER A CC BY 2.0 LICENSE
Several teams of researchers at USC have joined forces for a study aimed at detecting vital signs to help stem conflicts in couples before they occur. Couples were brought into the lab, equipped with wearable sensors, given smartphones for recording data and sent out on their way.
The study largely took place outside of the lab, with participants filling out an hourly survey to offer insight into their feelings toward their significant others. The team opted not to go out of its way to introduce arguments through external means or touch subject matter, and while not every participant reported an issue during the trial, plenty of issues arose. Because, you know, couples and stuff.
“The fact that we are capturing bio-signals from wearables – this is a source of information we can get from people that we cannot see with the naked eye,” study co-author Theodora Chaspari tells TechCrunch. “It was a pretty useful source of information.”
The wearables, which captured body temperature, heart activity and sweat, were coupled with assessments of audio recordings, used to detect the content and intensity of speech. A machine learning developed by the team was apparently able to capture episodes of conflict with an accuracy rate of up to 86-percent.
“We have a longstanding collaboration between the family studies project in psychology and the SAIL project in engineering,” says lead author Adela C. Timmons. “We were working together a lot to try to process and analyze the large amount of data that we were collecting, and we had this idea of applying machine learning technology to our data set to see if we could detect if conflict was occurring between couples and levels greater than chance.”
The next step in the process is using that machine learning algorithm to help create a model that could help predict conflicts up to five minutes before they occur, using physiological and speech reading. Given the relative level of sophistication in mainstream wearables, the software could potentially be applied to commercial devices to help trackers move beyond fitness to emotional health.
“It’s definitely a harder task to do,” says Chaspari. “It’s something that builds up, physiologically or behaviorally that can lead to a potential conflict.”
Theranos secretly bought lab equipment through a shell company, faked tests and inappropriately pumped up its financial outlook to investors, according to allegations in recently unsealed court documents, first reported by the Wall Street Journal.

Related Articles
 Partner Fund Management LP, a hedge fund management firm which invested $96 million in Theranos filed the claim in Delaware Chancery Court on Monday, which was unsealed Thursday afternoon, laying out exactly what it asserts the once-hailed blood testing company had been doing to deceive the many investors, partners, customers and journalists who’d looked into the company’s affairs.
In the filings, PFM alleges Theranos ran “fake ‘demonstrations tests’ for prospective investors and business partners” using commercial devices instead of its one-drop blood testing technology.
The 66-page complaint goes on to accuse founder Elizabeth Holmes and former president and COO Ramesh “Sunny” Balwani of repeatedly and knowingly lying, “That, among other things, the company had developed a proprietary technology that worked; the company’s proprietary technology was ready for commercial use to perform nearly all laboratory tests on a few drops of blood drawn from a patient’s finger; and the company was on the cusp of receiving all necessary regulatory clearances and approvals.”
The allegations are based on the testimony of 22 former employees of the company who were deposed by lawyers of PFM and are part of a follow-up suit to the one the firm filed last October alleging Theranos had misled the hedge fund when it convinced it to add funds to the company coffers in 2014.
The new filings are a follow-up to another suit PFM filed earlier this month to block a deal Theranos had offered to investors to take equity, including some of founder Elizabeth Holmes shares if they promised not to sue.
PFM and two other investors now say Theranos has been pressuring them to drop the suit, suggesting they should accept more equity or the company would seek Chapter 11 protection, according to Bloomberg.
Theranos responded to these allegations in a statement on Monday, “The suit is without merit, the assertions are baseless, and the plaintiff is engaging in revisionist history.”
The company has since followed up further calling the document a “one-sided filing by one party to litigation” and saying these are “mischaracterizations” it would rather litigate in court than contest now.
Here’s the full statement from Theranos:

This is a one-sided filing by one party to litigation, and we will respond at the appropriate time in the appropriate forum. We disagree with much of what PFM alleges in its complaint.  This is not, however, the time or place to contest their mischaracterizations of the record.  We will litigate this case in court, where it belongs.  What we will say now is that the items on which PFM focuses have nothing to do with why PFM invested, and they amount to a repackaging of allegations the media have already reported for nearly two years.
As for the tender offer:  As previously disclosed, Theranos is in the midst of a tender offer involving its most significant shareholders.  Elizabeth Holmes’ use of her own shares to recapitalize our C-2 and C-1 investors—and thereby prevent dilution to our other shareholders—is consistent with her longstanding, personal commitment to doing the right thing for the Theranos shareholder base. This tender offer has been in discussion between Theranos and its shareholders since July 2016.  To date, more than 99% of C-2 and C-1 investors other than PFM have chosen to participate.
PFM, a multi-billion dollar hedge fund, opposes the transaction, and is asking the Court to stop the tender offer because it is “unfair” specifically and only to PFM. In response  to PFM’s suit, the Court suspended the tender offer for a month in order to permit sufficient time for the court to review the transaction.  PFM’s effort to enjoin the tender offer is meritless; their legal theories are self-serving and would harm the rest of the Theranos shareholders. The Company is vigorously opposing PFM’s new suit and looks forward to completing the transaction with its shareholders.
This week saw movement in two tech lawsuits, Facebook held its annual F8 developer conference and a juice press hardware company came under fire. These are the top stories of the week, and you can sign up for this post as the weekly newsletter here. 
1. Everything you need to know about Facebook’s F8 developer conference
Facebook held its annual developer conference, F8, announcing an augmented reality developer platform, a brain-computer interface for typing with your mind, new Surround 360 cameras and a rewrite of its React framework. Here’s the complete list of everything Facebook launched and why.

2. Tesla’s Model S, its most affordable vehicle, got more affordable
Elon Musk dropped the price on the entry-level Model S, with a $5,000 discount to the 75kWh version, which now starts at $69,500.
3. Google may be building a built-in ad blocker for Chrome
Google is planning to add an ad blocker to its Chrome web browser, and could possibly turn it on by default for all users. The logic here is that although it’s odd for a company that makes its money from advertising to block ads, the move could actually be a way for Google to beat ad blockers by becoming one itself.
4. Facebook responds to murder discussed on Facebook video
Facebook issued a statement after a video showing a fatal shooting was uploaded onto the social media network by an alleged murderer. In a statement, a Facebook spokesperson said “This is a horrific crime and we do not allow this kind of content on Facebook. We work hard to keep a safe environment on Facebook, and are in touch with law enforcement in emergencies when there are direct threats to physical safety.”
5. Tesla settles its Autopilot lawsuit
Tesla settled a lawsuit it filed against Sterling Anderson, a past director of Autopilot. Anderson was a key leader of Tesla’s semi-automated highway driving features, prior to leaving the company to found his own self-driving startup, Aurora. The settlement clears Aurora and Anderson.
6. Chat app Confide hit with a lawsuit
Confide, the encrypted chat app that’s reportedly popular among Trump staffers, is facing a class action lawsuit that claims the company misled consumers about its ability to protect messages from being screen-shotted or saved.
7. Juicero defends its tech while offering money back to dissatisfied customers
Jeff Dunn, the former Coca-Cola executive who became CEO of Juicero last year, responded to a wave of coverage suggesting that the company’s juice press isn’t all that was promised — and he’s offering dissatisfied customers their money back. The main qualm being that the packs can be squeezed by hand, no expensive juicer required.
8. Chewy sells to PetSmart in biggest e-commerce merger ever
Retail giant PetSmart has been tracking a low-flying, five-year-old pet supplies company called Chewy throughout the years. This week, it agreed to purchase Chewy for $3.35 billion, just slightly more than Walmart paid for Jet.com
9. Planned Parenthood enrolls in 500 Startups
Planned Parenthood leaders are now looking to 500 Startups’ seed program to help them capitalize on the recent surge of donations. Planned Parenthood plans to use tech to help further the momentum the organization has built in the wake of President Trump’s efforts to block access to it in several states.
10. Samsung Galaxy S8 goes on sale in the US, Canada and Korea
Samsung’s newest mobile device is now on sale in the U.S., and you can read the review here. At $725 for the S8 and $825 for the S8+, the device is a premium product with a premium price tag. With the Infinity display, next-gen processor and already solid camera experience, there’s plenty to like, keeping Samsung toward the front of the Android handset race.

Weekend reads
The winner of the meal kit market wont be a meal kit company. Meal kit companies are facing an onslaught of competition from newcomers and big food brands alike, and turning a profit has proven elusive. It looks like meal kit companies need to emulate the brick-and-mortar groceries and online retailers they once criticized for overwhelming shoppers with choices. To go truly mainstream, they need to diversify their offerings.
The bike sharing wars are coming to the U.S. A new on-demand battle that’s playing out in China is coming to the United States. And it isn’t over car sharing, but bike sharing. This clash is over the latest wrinkle in urban bike-sharing — dockless bike sharing. And it has founders and VCs around the globe seeing dollar signs, while regulators are wrestling with how to ensure they’re not victims of a trend that seemed to emerge nearly overnight.
Machine intelligence is the future of monetization for Facebook.The value that can be extracted from the core Facebook platform is asymptotic as many on Wall Street believe, but that asymptote becomes considerably longer with the company’s emphasis on machine intelligence.
Windows Central has gotten its hands on an internal document highlighting the hardware performance of Windows 10 Cloud, a rumored operating system spinoff expected to be unveiled at next month’s big education event in New York. Predictably, the slide puts the OS head to head with Google Chromebooks.
The category is a no-brainer for Microsoft as the company struggles to gain a foothold in the K-12 education space that has been utterly dominated by Google’s cloud-based offering.
Microsoft saw something of a spike in the category in the late-00s, courtesy of the short but vibrant netbook boom, which helped educators realize the long hoped for promise of one-on-one devices for students, but that began to shift as tablets entered the scene. In recent years, however, Chromebooks have utterly dominated the conversation, through a combination of cheap hardware and control by the IT departments that make many of the purchasing decisions for schools and districts.

Microsoft’s main education play of late has been on the Surface side, though iPads have seemingly done a better job capturing the market for schools that don’t mind paying an extra premium for devices. The company was rumored to be launching a Surface Phone or new Surface Pro at the event, but we were able to confirm otherwise.
Microsoft’s certainly hinted at its aim to return to low cost education offerings. In January, the company discussed Intune for Education, which brings cloud-based management to a $189 Windows 10 aimed at schools. The event being held on May 2 will almost certainly detail devices it thinks will be able to go head to head with Chromebooks on things like battery life, cost and wide scale device management.
While the company hasn’t had much luck on the education from of late, there may still be demand for a reentry, given Microsoft’s still popular productivity options. Google’s made a lot of progress with its Cloud-based G Suite, but there’s still cachet among professional when it comes to offerings like Office. There’s also something to be said for a system that offers a version of a near ubiquitous ecosystem like Windows.
But even with those factors at play, Microsoft is going to have to offer up a lot more than just a Windows version of the Chromebook if it hopes to make a dent in education.

Featured Image: microsoft
Quora just became the unicorn of subjective human knowledge. After eight years carefully cultivating an intelligent question and answer community, it’s just raised an $85 million Series D round co-led by Collaborative Fund and Y Combinator’s Continuity Fund. Quora tells me it’s “roughly doubled its valuation since our last fundraise” of $80 million in 2014 that pegged it at $900 million, meaning Quora is now worth around $1.8 billion.
The two big drivers of that rapid value increase have been user growth and positive early results from its ad tests. Quora now has 190 million monthly users, up from 100 million a year ago. That proves it has the potential to achieve ubiquity as a source of expert opinions on just about everything. This scale also makes it appealing to advertisers lured by the high degree of intent exhibited by Quora readers, who might be likely to buy something connected to the answers they find.
Quora co-founder and CEO Adam D’Angelo
“The ads product is actually going pretty well,” says co-founder and CEO Adam D’Angelo. Quora’s ads show a business’ name and description beneath a related question people are answering. The ad format is still in closed beta but D’Angelo says “so far the results are pretty promising, and that was something that was important to the investors in this round.”
D’Angelo admits that going eight years without a fully available ads product means Quora has moved slowly, noting, “we’ve definitely focused more on our users and the mission than on monetization.” But with such a big idea and market it’s chasing, D’Angelo’s connections from being Facebook’s first CTO, and no high-quality competitors in sight, Quora has had the luxury of time.

Uniquorn
Along with Sam Altman and YC Continuity, and Collaborative Fund, previous investors Tiger Global, Matrix Partners and Facebook co-founder Dustin Moskovitz also joined the round. They clearly see the potential longevity of Quora. While Wikipedia is a second-hand source of essentially objective information, Quora collects first-hand subjective wisdom. People will always need answers, and if Quora builds the best place to find them, its evergreen content could rake in ad dollars for years and years to come.
Quora does have to contend with Yahoo Answers Now, which is the veteran of the Q&A space despite the unreliable quality of its content. And artificial intelligence could one day offer new ways to aggregate subjective knowledge that cuts out Quora. But the new cash VentureBeat reported on earlier today brings it to a total of $226 million raised, allowing Quora to keep playing its long game.
“The main thing we’re going to put money into is internationalization,” says D’Angelo. Eventually, “we’d like to let users translate content back and forth, but we haven’t built that yet.” Instead, D’Angelo says Quora has been spawning dedicated wings of its app for different languages. Quora launched in Spanish last year to collect questions and answers natively written in that tongue. It’s in beta for French, while German and Italian are coming in a few months. “We want to get to all the languages over the next year or two,” D’Angelo tells me.

When asked what he thinks of the relatively quiet company getting more attention because of its new unicorn status, D’Angelo characteristically demurred, saying, “I don’t expect anything to really change. We’ve always just cared about the mission. The most important thing for us is to get more knowledge shared.”
But as its status rises, Quora could finally cross the mindshare threshold to unlock its next wave of growth: Getting people to Google not “What are the best travel hacks?” but instead, “What are the best travel hacks, Quora?”
Advertisement		




/* <![CDATA[ */
if (!ads.isMobile()) {
	(function(window,$){
		window.TechCrunch.loader.on('tc_ads_wrapper_omniture', function(){
			if ( !window.ads.isAdPageSet ){
				if ( typeof window.adSetAdURL == 'function' ) {
					window.adSetAdURL('/wp-content/themes/vip/techcrunch-2013/_uac/adpage.html');
					window.ads.isAdPageSet = true;
				}
				if ( typeof window.adsResizePortrait === 'function' ) {
					window.adsResizePortrait('1');
				}
				window.console.log('ADS WIDTH:');
				window.console.log(ads);
			}
			window.htmlAdWH('93484904', "RR", "RR", 'f', 'adsDivffeb541c70');
		});
	}(this,this.jQuery));
}
/* ]]> */
 




Money.
That was effectively the only conversation missing from Facebook’s F8 conference — an event that even made time for a progress update on a moonshot project that might one day allow us to hear through our skin. Perhaps that’s the luxury of a company whose advertising revenue is up 57 percent year-over-year.
But don’t misconstrue unseen for unimportant. Behind machine intelligence “at scale” and cute Camera Effects lies a complete dependence on ad revenue. And barring a black swan event, Facebook’s expensive DARPA complex is only going to grow more dominant.
One in four engineers at Facebook are active users of its internal artificial intelligence platform. In that sense, the same technology that allows you to take a selfie with a virtual flower-crown at Coachella also allows the company to identify objects within public photos and videos on your News Feed.
As it becomes more difficult to cram ads onto Facebook without sacrificing the user experience, targeting, engagement and connectivity become the next natural priorities. This explains why Facebook’s ten-year roadmap highlights exactly that — connectivity to get more users on the platform and AI to boost engagement and targeting. In other words, machine intelligence is the future of monetization for Facebook.
The shrinking News Feed problem
In a way, Facebook’s platform is shrinking. Just a few years ago, almost every post a user made was text. But today, an agglomeration of pictures, videos, text and live content define the platform. Without advances in computer vision and machine learning more broadly, Facebook would be handicapped by its own new features.
“Content is getting more complex,” Mark Rabkin, Facebook’s VP of engineering for ads told me. But this complexity brings with it serious upside potential. It’s still very early days for understanding the human context that enables ad deliveries that lead to conversions — despite the fact that Facebook is the world’s second largest digital advertiser behind Google and the meeting room I met Rabkin in was adorned with oversized champagne bottles..text .crunchreport h3 {color:#fff}

		Latest Crunch Report 







Element Raises $102 Million | Crunch Report





Watch More Episodes



Mark Rabkin, Facebook’s VP of Engineering for Ads
Today, the company already knows a lot about you. Hoards of metadata and explicit groups you join, pages and posts you like, among many other things, have helped Facebook target ads as well as any company in the world.
Looking at the first three ads in my News Feed right now, I see WordPress (the platform I am currently typing on), DigitalGlobe (a company I have covered) and TechCrunch (not sure why I got this one tbh). But what’s missing from this is context, or as Rabkin calls it, “the why.” While all three of those aforementioned ads are loosely relevant, I’m not really the target market for DigitalGlobe’s services, I don’t have time to keep a personal blog and if I don’t already know about what TechCrunch is advertising to me then I should be fired.
“Just understanding time is huge,” added Rabkin. “We want to understand whether you’re interested in a certain thing generally or always. Certain things people do cyclically or weekly or at a specific time and it’s helpful to know how this ebbs and flows.”
Facebook’s core is its internal social graph. Mining new forms of content for information that can be added to this graph, and made available across the company, opens up new possibilities for understanding user behavior.

It’s like Warby Parker for Facebook
Computer vision gives computers reading glasses to interpret information from strings of images. The key to uncovering new patterns of user behavior is being able to effectively extract signal from sounds, language and images in harmony. It can help differentiate long-standing interests from mood-driven impulses. And particularly for the later, being able to perform these computations in real time is critical.
Manohar Paluri and Merlyn Deng, leaders on Facebook’s applied computer vision team, have been working on this exact challenge. Their work isn’t for ads specifically, but it could soon find its way into the hands of other leaders at Facebook like Mark Rabkin and Andrew Bosworth.
Manohar Paluri and Merlyn Deng, leaders on Facebook’s applied computer vision team
Both Rabkin and Deng relayed the same underlying thesis to me about helping people discover content. To the Facebook ads team, discovery is critical because it not only puts the illusion of power and control in the hands of users but is already a natural task that users organically want assistance with. Of course, Facebook gets to collect a lot more information about users along the way, but conversions are generally a positive thing for everyone involved.

Crunchbase






				Facebook			


 
Founded
2004


Overview
Facebook is an online social networking service that allows its users to connect with friends and family as well as make new connections. It provides its users with the ability to create a profile, update information, add images, send friend requests, and accept requests from other users. Its features include status update, photo tagging and sharing, and more.


Facebook’s profile structure includes …


Location

Menlo Park, CA



Categories

Social Media, 																													Social Network, 																													Social 


Website

http://www.facebook.com 


Full profile for Facebook 









In practice, this means that you shouldn’t expect Facebook to start the next phase of its augmented advertising journey by doing anything abrupt. It seems the company would rather you not notice its AI efforts and merely benefit passively from more holistic back-end mappings of user preferences. This differs in strategy a bit from companies like Pinterest that are building dedicated discovery tools.
Instead, Facebook will go the way of Snap (yet again) and work to index its content more thoroughly. Snapchat Stories Search uses computer vision and other metadata to index stories for search in near real time — although to be fair the idea itself is a completely obvious next step for any social network driving revenue growth with ads.
Flipping the switch
Once you’re able to index videos, pictures and live content in the same way as text, that “why” question that Rabkin hinted at starts to become answerable. Facebook isn’t new to qualitative research. It notoriously worked side-by-side with researchers from Cornell and the University of California–San Francisco to explore the spread of emotional contagion through social networks — think feed manipulating to see what happens when someone sees depressing posts all day.
But from an ads perspective, Facebook might be able to answer hypothetical questions about why more women than men finish a video ad and why more men actually engaged with it. Facebook would only grow more powerful, in control of valuable brand insights and best practices.
Facebook has executed many times over in applying machine learning to deliver engaging content. Its understanding of faces helped power features like Memories that drive shares. And its automatic video captioning feature increased video watch times by 12 percent.
The value that can be extracted from the core Facebook platform is asymptotic as many on Wall Street believe, but that asymptote becomes considerably longer with the company’s emphasis on machine intelligence.




0
SHARES




























if( !ads.isMobile() ){ window.TechCrunch.loader.on( 'gravity-beacon', function(){ window.tc_loadGravityScript( 'recirculation' ); } ); }


	(function($) {
		window._taboola = window._taboola || [];

		if ($('body').hasClass('single-post-mobile-collapse') && $(window).width() < 637) {
			$('.article-entry').append($(document.getElementById('taboola-below-article-thumbnails')).detach());
		}

		_taboola.push(
			{ mode: 'thumbnails-a', container: 'taboola-below-article-thumbnails', placement: 'Below Article Thumbnails', target_type: 'mix' }
		);
	})(window.jQuery);
Advertisement		




/* <![CDATA[ */
if (!ads.isMobile()) {
	(function(window,$){
		window.TechCrunch.loader.on('tc_ads_wrapper_omniture', function(){
			if ( !window.ads.isAdPageSet ){
				if ( typeof window.adSetAdURL == 'function' ) {
					window.adSetAdURL('/wp-content/themes/vip/techcrunch-2013/_uac/adpage.html');
					window.ads.isAdPageSet = true;
				}
				if ( typeof window.adsResizePortrait === 'function' ) {
					window.adsResizePortrait('1');
				}
				window.console.log('ADS WIDTH:');
				window.console.log(ads);
			}
			window.htmlAdWH('93484989', "RR", "RR", 'f', 'adsDivffeb541c70');
		});
	}(this,this.jQuery));
}
/* ]]> */
 




I’ve been thinking a lot about retail these days and I’ve been connecting the dots between the seeming death of retailers like Ralph Lauren and the book industry. In short, we are feeling the seismic echoes of the 2008 crash right now on Main Street and things are both ugly and pretty at the same time.
The book industry, like the music industry, nearly imploded when the world stopped spending its disposable income in the last recession. This led to much doom and gloom and it also led to the rise of ebooks which, at the time, cost far less than a paperback or hardback. Therefore power readers, for lack of a better word, ditched bookstores and only those who enjoyed the book buying experience over the convenience of online kept going to bookstores. And, in seemingly an instant, we saw the collapse of Borders and Barnes & Noble and the death of print in America.
Or did we?
What we actually saw was a collapse of the old distribution models. Further, any time an old distribution model dies there are plenty of folks who complain their specific sky is falling. As a writer I watched magazines get replaced by websites and bookstores replaced by Amazon and publishers replaced by – and this could be good or bad – self publishing. The self publishing jag continued into Medium and, I would argue, most of the writing that once ended up moldering in the back pages of business journals and trade publications is now online. In short, all of the old distribution systems that made a few people lots and lots of money in the old days shut down and the new systems that made a lot of people a little money sprang up..text .crunchreport h3 {color:#fff}

		Latest Crunch Report 







Element Raises $102 Million | Crunch Report





Watch More Episodes



At the same time we saw something amazing. First, paper book sales in general are up as Generation X and beyond begins to fight back against impermanence of culture. Book lovers know the old John Waters quote – “We need to make books cool again. If you go home with somebody and they don’t have books, don’t fuck them” – and they took it to heart. So you have indie bookstores “booming” in the same way long-tail blogs are booming and companies like Read Dog Books are offering cute little book boxes that makes receiving a book a treat rather than an exchange. People want paper books because of how they make them feel – special, in-the-know, educated. In short, it’s the hipsterization of book retail.
Back to the retail doldrums. While there are plenty of reasons malls are dying I would wager that the primary one is that they sell nothing that the average young person wants, especially given all of the choice on the Internet. The beloved brands of old – Banana Republic, Ralph Lauren, Gap – are stale and they were initially usurped by American Apparel and then fully shattered by upstarts like American Giant, Supreme, and the rest of that Massdrop/Acryonym/Facebook/RageOn world that brings custom fashion to you at a discount (or, in some cases, a decided non-discount). But the problem is that each of these highly sought-after and popular brands are available electronically and anyone – from a kid in Skopje to a tactical jacket lover in Fresno – has access to wacky fashion that was once available only to the New York/London/Paris/Tokyo crowd or the Griswolds in European Vacation.

So again, as in the world of books, the long tail is eating the old and decrepit body. But the long tail again does something clever. The key, then, is for the startup to fill that niche with cool stuff that people want and that is available down the street and not around the world.

Crunchbase






				Long Tail			


 
Founded
2006


Overview
A mobile content and services company.


Location

Petaling Jaya, 12



Categories

SMS, 																													Messaging, 																													Wireless, 																													Mobile 


Founders
Reese Yeo


Website

http://www.longtail.com.my 


Full profile for Long Tail 



 



				John Carmack			


 
Bio
John D. Carmack is an American game programmer and the co-founder of id Software. Carmack was the lead programmer of the id computer games Wolfenstein 3D, Doom, Quake, their sequels and the Commander Keen series of games.

Though Carmack is best known for his innovations in 3D graphics, he is also a rocketry enthusiast and the founder and lead engineer of Armadillo Aerospace.

In October 2008, …


Full profile for John Carmack 



 



				Linus Torvalds			


 
Bio
Linus Benedict Torvalds is a Finnish software engineer best known for having initiated the development of the Linux kernel and git revision control system. He later became the chief architect of the Linux kernel, and now acts as the project's coordinator.

Source: [Wikipedia](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Linus_Torvalds)


Full profile for Linus Torvalds 



 



				David Heinemeier Hansson			


 
Full profile for David Heinemeier Hansson 



 



				Peter Norvig			


 
Bio
Peter Norvig is a fellow of the American Association for Artificial Intelligence and the Association for Computing Machinery. At Google, Inc. he was director of search quality, responsible for the core Web search algorithms from 2002-2005, and has been director of research from 2005 on.

Previously, he was the head of the Computational Sciences Division at NASA Ames Research Center, making him NASA’s …


Full profile for Peter Norvig 



 



				Jeff Dean			


 
Bio
Jeff Dean joined Google in 1999 and is currently a Google Senior Fellow in Google's Research Group, where he leads the Google Brain team, Google's deep learning research team in Mountain View, working on systems for speech recognition, computer vision, language understanding, and various predictive tasks. 

He has co-designed / implemented five generations of Google's crawling, indexing, and query …


Full profile for Jeff Dean 



 



				Guido van Rossum			


 
Bio
Guido is the author of the popular [Python](http://www.python.org) programming language. The Python community refers to him as the BDFL (Benevolent Dictator For Life), a title straight from a Monty Python skit.

He moved from the Netherlands to the USA in 1995, where he met his wife. Until July 2003 they lived in the northern Virginia suburbs of Washington, DC with their son Orlijn, who was born …


Full profile for Guido van Rossum 









What happens next? Exactly what is happening in books. The experience of clothes buying, the micro-retail experience of finding something only you know about, will become far more important. When everyone can get Yeezys online, finding a special pair of blaze orange ones made of carbon fiber and Japanese denim that are only available at a tiny shop in Denver will be the new driving force back to retail. Retail isn’t dying, it’s changing.
Let the malls implode. Young retailers will remake them in their own image, gutting the old Gap stores and putting in a coffee shop. Large buildings will be repurposed into markets and micro-retail will replace maxi-retail. And the process will repeat – small becomes big which topples and the small rise again. While the seismic effects of retail death are real and dangerous in the short term I’m optimistic enough to bet on the small scale in the long term.
And, maybe in the next ten years, someone like John Waters will tell the world that if you go home with someone who doesn’t own a one-of-a-kind, wildly unique P24 HD Gabardine Articulated re-cut staple military style trouser you shouldn’t sleep with them.

Alphabet’s (Google’s) life sciences division Verily has launched its public pitch for a massive, multi-year health study it’s leading along with Duke University School of Medicine, Stanford Medicine and Google proper.
Verily is hoping to recruit some 10,000 Americans to volunteer to share their medical records and have blood and other bodily fluids extracted and linked to a Google account in order for the company and its partners to try to “spur the next generation of medical discoveries,” as it couches it. In exchange, participants will get some of their own health data shared back with them (though it cautions not to expect to get “medical care or advice”), plus a small amount of financial compensation for time lost and a little early intel on what the ad giant might be learning from their sensitive health data.
The Project Baseline study has been a long time in the works — it was previously slated to launch in 2015, but has evidently taken rather longer to set up; unsurprisingly so, given the scope and size of the longitudinal study. The four-year study will involve volunteers making annual visits to one of the Baseline study sites for a full one to two days of health tests, including giving blood, saliva and other samples; doing specialized tests such as chest X-rays and echocardiograms; and other tests, such as assessing physical strength and answering health-related questionnaires.
Some participants will also be asked to visit a study site quarterly for one to two hours to “gather more frequent information about health profiles that we are especially interested in,” says Verily, and some may also be asked in for appointments at other times “following a significant life event, so that we can see if and how your health changes.”
All volunteers will be required to wear an “investigational wristwatch” daily — aka the Verily study watch announced earlier this month; and sleep with a sensor underneath their mattress (so you can add sex-tracking to this study’s scope — a woman on the Project Baseline question phone line said she’d been asked about the movement-tracking mattress coil “a lot!”); as well as have a dedicated Wi-Fi hub device installed in their home to suck up and send the tracking data from the devices back to Google’s servers.
There’s also trimonthly, half-hour-long online surveys to take, with questions about diet, exercise and well-being; and a mobile app that will push additional questions at participants, perhaps as frequently as daily, such as asking them about their sleep quality or alcohol consumption. Presumably the project researchers want the ability to be able to react to specific tracked activity/events with follow-up questions that might shed light on linked factors.
Participants will be compensated $410 per annual site visit; $30 per visit for the shorter quarterly assessments; and $10 a time for the trimonthly questionnaires, according to a rep on the Project Baseline question phone line — so no one except Verily and its various academic and commercial partners stands to get rich from being involved in this lengthy medical research project.
Lastly, but by no means least, study participants will be required to share access to their medical records with Verily — so anyone signing up for this study really will be standing naked in front of Mountain View.
On the website where the company is pitching for volunteers, Verily’s marketing is heavy on trying to stir up stirring historic parallels for this “mission” to — as it puts it — “better understand health and prevent disease,” laying it on thickly that participants will be “doing good” and “helping humanity” by contributing their health data to the research effort.
To the brink, frankly, of emotional blackmail. A glossy marketing video showing a series of people smiling into the camera intones: “What if you could impact the health of millions of people, just by sharing your personal health story?” — with the unspoken implication being: how dare you be so selfish NOT to share your medical records with Google.
The website is rather thinner on detail about what will actually be done with all the sensitive personally identifiable health data that will be obtained from study participants. And there’s also very little about the underlying commercial motives driving the effort to gather health data in “incredible depth and detail,” as Verily’s marketing paints it.
For example, an FAQ on the website ostensibly answering what the data will actually be used for is decidedly non-specific — saying only:
We will use it to expand the Baseline database and develop advanced tools for collecting, organizing, and analyzing health information. As well, in partnership with qualified researchers and organizations, we will use the data to uncover new medical insights or develop new health products.
It’s also not clear who else the data might be shared with and for what specific purposes. The FAQ notes that members of the Baseline team will have access to “directly identifying information (your name, street address, phone number and email),” but “external researchers and organizations for research” will also be given access to the data — albeit with the directly identifying info removed. Although, on that front, it’s worth pointing out that the re-identification of anonymous individuals attached to health data has been demonstrated by researchers to be disturbingly easy. So the possibility that such granular medical data might be reattached to study participants’ identities in the hands of unknown third parties cannot be ruled out.
On its blog, Verily specifies that it will be working with “partners from academia, medicine, science, patient-advocacy, engineering and design,” adding: “In the future, the intent is to make de-identified data from the Project Baseline study available to qualified researchers to spur new ideas across the broad ecosystem.”
The Project Baseline website also notes that study participants will be required to have a Google account — so they’re effectively also agreeing to link a (potentially massive) trove of online activity with this highly granular personal health data. And it’s not clear at what point/s and/or which portions of their data are being covered by Google’s privacy policy or by the Project Baseline privacy policy (or indeed the consent forms volunteers will go on to sign at study sites). An unreassuring single line in the FAQ notes that “Google will not sell your information for advertising” but the company is in the business of ad targeting, so does not need to sell users’ personal information to advertisers — it sells ad targeting based on its data holdings.
And even if you were to create a new Google ID just to use for Project Baseline, it’s rather harder to change your real-world identity (i.e. your real name) and thus de-link all of the online information Google might have (or be able to glean) about you based on that rather less mutable identifier. (Something it unintentionally flags up — given it can’t resist linking Baseline’s aim with other Alphabet divisions’ prior efforts; a slogan for the project claims: “We’ve mapped the world. Now let’s map human health.”)
Asked whether Google might share information it has on internet users who also are participating in the study, the woman on the Project Baseline phone line wasn’t sure. “I don’t believe so,” she said, noting that participants selected to be a part of the study “can ask any questions that I can’t answer at the site visit.” Furthermore, “You can take your head out of the ring at any time,” she added. “You can take your application or your enrollment and withdraw it at any time if anything doesn’t sound good.”
Responding on this later, a press spokesperson for the project sent the following by email: “While Baseline data is stored on Google systems, Baseline data is segregated from Google data. The information in a participant’s Baseline Profile will not be linked with other information associated with their Google account without their consent.” The spokesperson added: “Google’s data privacy policy is here; they do not share personal information with companies, organizations and individuals outside of Google, including Verily, except for the cases they outline in their policy.”
They also told us that the health data would not be used by Google to target advertising or suggest commercial services in future. But the ad giant is going to want to monetize the data somehow — so how it might do so remains an open question.
It goes without saying that Verily, a division of Google’s parent company Alphabet, is a for-profit enterprise so is obviously looking for ways to profit from the health data that study participants will be handing it. Yet despite this rather lopsided exchange — your blood, your moods and your medical records in exchange for a vague notion of some possible future health benefits (for someone) at an unknown cost — Verily is not committing to hand over all the data it gathers during the study to individual study participants, saying only that it “may” return information such as laboratory tests and clinical assessments, and that: “We think it’s important to return as much of your information as possible in an ethical, responsible manner and in a format that is interesting and understandable.” So, in other words, volunteers for this four-year “quest” won’t be privy to all the data Alphabet’s divisions will be extracting from their person.
In a blog post about Project Baseline, the company writes that it is focused on “creating new tools to collect and organize information in ways previously not possible so that we can make the information useful” — describing the initiative overall as a “unified effort to map human health.”
“[T]he Project Baseline study dataset will include clinical, molecular, imaging, self-reported, behavioral, environmental, sensor and other health-related measurements. To organize this information, we are creating an infrastructure that can process multi-dimensional health data – much of which have never been combined for an individual. Our vision is that this data platform can serve as a single query source and may be used for more seamless data integration and collaboration,” it adds.
Asked for what purposes Verily will share the anonymized data of study participants, the company spokesperson said: “We are planning to develop a discovery platform that the scientific community can leverage in the future for exploratory research. We intend to make the de-identified data available to qualified investigators around the world for research purposes.”
“Participant data will be encrypted and stored at rest in replicated locations in data centers with strict access controls. Individuals administering the study will gain access to the data in a need-to-know basis, with permissions audited periodically. De-identified health data may also reside in the technical infrastructure of partners of the Baseline project, if they have successfully passed a vendor security audit by Verily. Physical and digital security precautions are set in place in either case,” they added.
Responding on what will happen to participants’ data after the study has concluded, and how long the data will be retained for, the spokesperson told us: “After the study is completed, participant data will be made available in de-identified form for research by qualified researchers. The de-identified data will remain as a resource to the company for a long-term period, hopefully spurring ongoing research and development.”
Alphabet/Google has faced controversy in the U.K. where its AI division, DeepMind unveiled a big health push last year, partnering with a publicly funded National Health Service Trust to get access to patient health data in exchange for building an app. However, at the launch of the first partnership it was not made public how many medical records were being shared with DeepMind to power an app for hosting an NHS algorithm designed to spot the early signs of a kidney condition. An FOI request subsequently revealed DeepMind had been given access to some 1.6 million patients’ health data — without their knowledge or consent. The information-sharing arrangement remains under investigation by U.K. data protection watchdogs.
But while Alphabet has been able to quickly suck up vast quantities of medical data in the U.K. to power its ambitions for AI-enabled preventative healthcare because a cash-strapped NHS is all too eager to accept the offer of free help from a high-profile, high-tech outsider, the U.S. healthcare marketplace evidently requires a different approach to outsider corporates gaining access to medical records at scale. Let’s not forget Google’s prior attempt at generating mass adoption for an opt-in, centralized electronic medical records and health data platform of its own failed spectacularly. Seen from that angle, Project Baseline has rather more modest ambitions to only acquire the medical records of ~10,000 US citizens — albeit this study is also couched as only the start. “Eventually we hope to expand internationally to capture health diversity on a global scale,” writes Verily.
This post was updated with additional comment from a Project Baseline press spokesperson

Featured Image: Yeko Photo Studio/Shutterstock
Earlier this week, Forbes published its annual Midas List, which showcases who the outlet believes to be the top investors in the world. Stuart Peterson of Artis Ventures was on the list — very far down, behind the many VCs whose names are instantly recognizable to founders, like Chris Sacca and Peter Fenton and Mary Meeker.
The way Peterson tells it, that’s the way he likes it. There’s a reason he didn’t put his name on the door 17 years ago when he left the hedge fund Cypress Funds in L.A. to open his own firm in Silicon Valley. “I’m not crazy about being the center of attention. I never wanted to do this by myself. I think you can be successful if you’re part of a successful team.”
Certainly, Artis has seen its share of success. In one of its most notable deals, it invested in YouTube before the company sold to Google in 2006. A family connection seemingly helped. At the time, Artis employed David Lamond, son of renowned VC Pierre Lamond, who spent 30 years with Sequoia Capital, another early YouTube investor.
Artis also invested alongside Sequoia in a number of other deals, including Aruba Networks, which went public in 2007 and was acquired by Hewlett Packard Enterprise in 2015. Lamond left Artis in 2012 to form his own firm.
Artis — whose newer bets include troubled Juicero , along with  Zenrez, a company that sells pricing technology and tools to fitness studios — more recently made a killing off the sale of cancer drug developer Stemcentrix to AbbVie last year for $10.2 billion.
Artis led Stemcentrix’s Series A round and Peterson sat on the company’s board. In fact, though Founders Fund has received much attention for leading the company’s Series B round (it reportedly returned $1.4 billion off a $300 million investment in the company), Peterson says Artis made “just less than $1 billion” from its $35 million investment in the company.
Asked how he landed the deal, Peterson points to a 2010 event to unveil a social app’s fund created by Kleiner Perkins. At the time, famed VC John Doerr was hosting a panel that included Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg and Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos, and Doerr asked Bezos what advice he had for investors and founders.
“If I were coming out of school today,” said Bezos, “I think I would be very passionate about genetic engineering, synthetic life, I think these are incredible areas . . .”
Doerr, confused by the change of subject, interrupted, “On social networks?”
“No,” Bezos continued, “I’m talking about test tubes and engineering real biological organisms to solve clean energy and a whole bunch of interest issues.”
“I was blown away by that,” says Peterson, whose firm has invested roughly a billion dollars since its inception, some of it in life sciences companies, and much of it via special purpose vehicles whose funding has come from CEOs, CFOs, actors and sports stars. Says Peterson, “They love the idea of access, and they’ve added a tremendous amount of value to companies that we’ve funded.”
So where is Peterson — who plans to raise a fund for Artis next year — getting his leads today? We asked him that and much more in a wide-ranging conversation yesterday. Here’s an outtake:
TC: You got behind Stemcentrix at a time when not many in Silicon Valley were focusing on novel biotech cancer drugs.
SP: You had Zynga and Groupon and Twitter and all these seemingly overnight successes that had raised very little capital and were producing great returns. We felt like maybe there’s just one YouTube and now it’s time to move on.
TC: VCs certainly would agree with you at this point. I don’t think a week passes without another firm jumping into biotech investing.
SP: Because a lot of benefits accruing to the tech landscape are now accruing to the life science space. Ten years ago, it cost a few million dollars to map out the human genome; now it’s a few hundred dollars and before you know it, it’ll be $30. It’s collapsing faster than Moore’s Law.
But it’s not just about mapping out your genetic instruction set; there’s opportunity in everything that lives on and inside of you. It’s funny, we don’t even understand yet what’s going on in our microbiome, yet we want to travel to Mars. I love the enthusiasm, but our bodies are their own solar system. We need to get to a point where instead of having a doctor test you for 20 or so pathogens to figure out what’s wrong, the doctor says, “We’re going to sequence your bacteria, fungi and viruses, and I’m going to tell you exactly what you have in an hour.”
It’s like this Netscape browser moment. You knew it was powerful, but you didn’t know where it was going to take us. Now we know that mapping out your own instruction set is powerful, but where will it take us? I think we’ll find out shortly, and that it’s going to release a tremendous amount of value.
TC: What are some of your more recent life sciences bets? 
SP: We did the Series A of a company called IDbyDNA [which aims to be able to identify any pathogen] a year ago. We funded Fabric Genomics [whose software aggregates insights about cancer and pediatric genomics from around the world, then spits out an actionable report for lab technicians to send off to clinicians].
We’re going full circle [in our newfound ability to more easily find co-investors]. When we looked at Stemcentrix and needed to find another investor, it was really hard. We all looked around the table, and we said, “We better call Peter Thiel.” I didn’t have a number two.
[Editor’s note: Asked for comment, a spokesperson for investor Brian Singerman, who is credited with betting on Stemcentrix on behalf of Thiel’s Founders Fund, says Singerman was introduced to Stemcentrix via the debt firm WTI.]
TC: You made it on Forbes’s Midas List this week. How are you feeling about it?
SP: I see 12 people who funded Twitter. If I was given a choice between funding a targeted therapeutic to cure cancer or Twitter, I’d take the therapeutic. I look at the garbage that’s funded every day, and even if it’s hugely successful, who cares? Will it change my life?
TC: A lot of investors do seem to be experiencing a similar shift in thinking.
SP: I think we’re seeing it. Y Combinator is trying to wrap its arms around the life sciences opportunity. Yesterday we put a term sheet out to a life sciences company, and guess who was there with a term sheet? Andreessen Horowitz.
What’s interesting to watch is how people pivot but try to keep their story intact. The venture firm Data Collective wanted to do everything in big data, but then they began to see the opportunity in life sciences. So what do you tell investors? That genomics is the biggest data opportunity we’ve ever seen. Andreessen is the same. It was never going to invest in healthcare, then it had to pivot into life sciences without looking crazy.
I think it’s great, by the way. If you’re investing in [the video platform] Vessel [acquired, then shut down, last year by Verizon] or [the pet-sitting service] DogVacay, I don’t think you can complain about the lack of exits.
TC: So we’re talking about Benchmark here. I don’t think they’ve jumped into life sciences.
SP: Trust me, if [Benchmark’s] Bill Gurley went after these targeted therapeutics and he was successful, he would have as much liquidity as he could imagine. Sequoia is trying. Kleiner is trying. Either these firms pivot or they’ll disappear. They just won’t be relevant.
TC: You’ve funded an array of companies from different industries. Are you saying you’ll only do life sciences deals now?
SP: We look at everything. We led a $35 million round in [the networking company] Versa Networks. We’re about to lead another round in a healthcare company that’s in stealth and we’ll probably raise $35 million for them. We invest in about a dozen companies each year. But there’s no mandate. This may be the last networking deal we do, or the last targeted therapeutics deal we ever do.
As far as the consumer-facing space, I don’t know. I mean, [the video editing and movie making app] Flipagram — I don’t even know what this is. I was like, I can’t listen to this for five minutes. It looks like Instagram to me with longer video feeds. Its numbers probably looked just like Google’s early on, but I didn’t care. [Editor’s note: Sequoia and Kleiner, Google’s earliest venture investors, wound up co-leading Flipagram’s early funding. The company, which struggled to gain momentum, sold in February to the Chinese company Toutiao.]
Same with Jet.com. I just thought: If this is hugely successful, who cares? Amazon is already operating on razor-thin margins.
I think people in the Midwest, when they see five different billionaires that come out of a place like Twitter or 12 different venture funds that helped make a company a success, they might wonder: Is this the best we can do? Really?
I’m excited to announce that Bernard Coleman, Uber’s global head of diversity and inclusion, will be speaking in a fireside chat at TC Sessions: Justice, our day-long event about diversity, inclusion and social justice.
Coleman joined Uber earlier this year in January, and has had to hit the ground running in light of sexual harassment allegations and the release of Uber’s first diversity report. Coleman formerly worked as Hillary for America’s chief diversity and human resources officer.
Other speakers at TC Sessions: Justice include activist DeRay McKesson, Facebook Global Head of Diversity Maxine Williams, Salesforce Chief Equality Officer Tony Prophet and Y Combinator Partner Michael Seibel. You can check out the agenda here.
TC Sessions: Justice is right around the corner, taking place on June 6 at the Alamo Drafthouse in San Francisco. If you want to attend, be sure to request an invitation here.

Featured Image: Catalyst
Advertisement		




Who will be the Pixar of AR? Someone oughta be rounding up Hollywood special effects engineers and animated character designers to build an augmented reality content startup.
This week’s launch of Facebook’s Camera Effects platform means there are suddenly 1.8 billion people waiting to be entertained by digital overlays on the real world. And now, startups won’t have to grow a user base from scratch, make people recreate their social graph, establish a place to share the content they capture or develop much of the underlying object recognition and spatial perception technology.
All they have to do is build things that amuse people with the magic of visualized imagination. Facebook is desperate to prove there are killer AR experiences out there, so there’s plenty of opportunity to be featured on the platform. Whoever establishes themselves as capable of commanding people’s attention with this new medium will have businesses throwing money at them to build branded AR experiences — like how BuzzFeed monetizes through its BuzzFeed Motion Pictures ad creative team.
And since everything that happens in Facebook AR happens “on camera,” it’s instantly shareable with a massive social network. AR will become part of the new social media storytelling vocabulary, offering viral growth for developers.
Facebook’s AR Studio tool makes building augmented reality experiences relatively easy
Experts in the field tell me there are no standout AR content startups. That seems like a lucrative gap to fill. There are already a bunch of startups like Penrose, Baobab and Within vying to be the Pixar of VR. Several have raised tens of millions of dollars. And that’s despite the fact that most people don’t own a VR headset, and, if they do, it’s probably gathering dust somewhere.
The main point Mark Zuckerberg tried to get across in his Facebook F8 conference keynote was that we don’t need to wait for augmented reality glasses. There’s already an AR device with near ubiquitous market penetration: the smartphone camera. Yet because the physical world is so big, blanketing it in AR experiences may necessitate leaning on an army of outside developers — whom Facebook has historically embraced, but Snapchat has shunned.
When any new communication medium hits massive audience scale, there’s a chance for new players to break into the entertainment space. It happened with radio, film, TV, web video, mobile apps and VR. Pixar saw computer-rendered animation’s promise, seized on it early and grew into a hugely successful business.



Now AR is coming of age. It has different fundamental properties than past mediums, so the winners won’t necessarily look anything like Pixar in terms of organizational structure or business model. They might look more like Flappy Bird developer dotGears, or YouTube channel owner Maker Studios.

Still, this technological shift forecasts a possible attention shift that will precipitate a dollar shift. There’s always the risk that AR is a flop. VR has been slow-growing, and no one’s getting rich off smartwatch apps yet. Though the sudden popularity of Pokémon GO and puppy face filters amongst teens seem to lend credence to Snap’s recruiting tagline: “Toys are preludes to serious ideas.”
There’s sure to be function-focused AR utilities and full-fledged games that spring up. Some might require people to download separate apps, and therefore might need to wait until more people are comfortable with AR and confident about its value. But Facebook’s Camera Effects platform and AR Studio tool mean there’s a powerful, viral distribution channel for lightweight experiences that can live inside Facebook’s apps.
Imagine a startup that makes a cute and loveable augmented reality character that performs comedy whenever your phone recognizes you’re in a different place or around different objects. In my head I see Chris Farley turned into a panda that pulls off a silly slapstick humor routine with whatever else is in frame.
Or a startup could index the world’s landmarks and build mini-games or artistic effects triggered by each of them, creating a world-wide scavenger hunt. Every tourist is going to ask what the person next to them is doing laughing while they point their phone at the Eiffel Tower or Statue of Liberty. They’ll discover they already have the app.
While the AR Studio development tool Facebook built does seem remarkably easy to use, this content development will require funding. Some intrepid venture capitalists might be wise to take a few swings at ex-Disney or DreamWorks employees building AR startups. Or Facebook should seed the AR developer ecosystem by providing up-front payouts for exclusive content, much the way it did to get Facebook Live video off the ground by paying top news publishers.
The most exciting part is no one really knows the potential of a consumer AR platform. We’re literally on day four, and new mediums are few and far between. What’s your idea?



Earlier this week, the popular language learning service Duolingo quietly introduced paid monthly subscriptions in its Android apps.
Subscribers get two benefits: they won’t see ads in the app and they will be able to download lessons for offline use. In addition, there is also a feel-good aspect to this, as Duolingo highlights that subscribers to Duolingo Plus, as the subscription is called, will help “millions around the world learn for free.”
The new subscription service, which you can buy through an in-app purchase, currently costs $9.99 per month. It’s live now on Android and will come to iOS in the future.
It’s worth stressing that this subscription is completely optional and a company spokesperson told me that “Duolingo’s learning content will always be free.”
Update: a Duolingo spokesperson tells me that the company expects to break even (or come close to it) by the end of the year and that the company has a “fully fleshed out monetization plan.” We have updated the headline to reflect this.
About a year ago, Duolingo CEO Luis von Ahn announced that the company would start experimenting with ads and optional in-app purchases to figure out how each would impact app usage and the financial health of the company. At the time, von Ahn said that Duolingo was spending about $42,000 per day on its servers, employees and other operating expenses, a number that has surely increased over the last year or so.
“Subscribers will help keep language education free for millions of people around the world,” von Ahn writes in this week’s announcement.
Ads in an educational app are always a difficult tradeoff between monetization and user experience because they are, by default, designed to take the user out of the app. Von Ahn acknowledged as much. “I don’t like ads any more than you do, but we need to test if a small non-intrusive ad at the end of a lesson makes people use Duolingo less. (We know this would take us a long way towards breaking even.),” he wrote a year ago.
Now, however, it doesn’t look like ads are going away anytime soon, because not seeing ads is, after all, one of the main benefits of paying for Duolingo Plus.
The original idea for monetizing Duolingo was to use the combined brainpower of its users to power a translation service. This service, however, remains in beta after all these years and the company doesn’t really highlight it anymore (and as far as I can see, there’s not even a link to it from its homepage at this point).

Duolingo’s mission is to “provide free language education to the world.” Having talked to von Ahn many times in the last few years, I know that he’s extremely passionate about this. At the same time, though, Duolingo also took almost $84 million in venture funding since it launched in 2011 — and those investors surely want to see a return.
It’s worth noting that Duolingo’s move here feels a bit similar to that of Berlin-based Babbel, the company’s biggest competitor in Europe. Babbel, too, tried the ad model but found that it couldn’t sustain its business through ads alone. In a last-minute pivot before running out of money, Babbel switched to a paid model and today it has hundreds of employees and runs a cash-flow positive operation. In all fairness, though, its mission wasn’t to offer free language education to everyone, so it had far more freedom to pivot.
Alright, startup fans. We gave you an extension, a whole extra week to save some serious cash on tickets to Disrupt NY 2017. But now your time is almost up.
You have just a few hours left to save $1,000 on tickets to the best startup show in the Big Apple. Early bird tickets cost just $1,995 apiece for today only — that price is going to jump to $2,995 tomorrow.
Get your tickets now. In addition to saving you some hard-earned cash, here’s what that early-bird Disrupt ticket gets you.
To kick things off, you’ll get to hear from a series of prominent entrepreneurs and investors in a series of lectures and interviews. These speakers are a veritable who’s who of the tech industry — folks like RRE Ventures Co-Founder & Managing Partner Stuart Ellman, Luma CEO and Founder Paul Judge, former NSA Director Keith Alexander, international chess champion Garry Kasparov and WeWork Co-Founder and CEO Adam Neumann, to name just a few.
Next, you’ll get to wander the Startup Alley and Hardware Alley, where promising early-stage startups will be demoing their products and services to the thousands of Disrupt attendees on the show floor.
Then, you’ll get to check out a few dozen promising early-stage startups as they pitch our panel of judges in the illustrious Startup Battlefield competition. Battlefield companies are vying for the chance to win $50,000, the coveted Disrupt Cup and, perhaps most importantly, the attention of the tech community at large.
Finally, you’ll unwind after a long, fun-filled day at Disrupt by attending the after-parties and keep the good times going long after the show floor closes up for the evening.
You’ll need a ticket to take part in any of it, and today is seriously the last day to save a full $1,000 on Disrupt tickets before the price jumps tomorrow. No more extensions, so be sure to get your ticket today!
Disrupt NY 2017 takes place May 15-17 at Manhattan’s Pier 36. We can’t wait to see you there.








Our sponsors help make Disrupt happen. If you are interested in learning more about sponsorship opportunities, please contact our sponsorship team by filling out this form.
On the heels of yesterday’s news about expanded subscription options for partners, video streaming site Twitch today announced another way for its creator community to generate revenue, with the launch of an Affiliate program. Explains the company, the new program will allow non-partnered video creators to gain access to a variety of tools that will allow them to make money from their channels, even if they’re not large enough to gain “Partner” status.
The first of these tools is Cheering with Bits.
Cheering was introduced last year as a form of virtual tipping which involves purchasing “Bits” – animated emoji – using real-world money. You can then use Bits in chat messages as a way to support your favorite streamer. As you cheer, you’ll also earn Chat Badges for the channel to have that support recognized more broadly.
Bits are equal to one cent and both Partners and Affiliates each earn the same when those Bits are used in chat.

Cheering was initially only available to select Twitch partners at launch, with plans to expand to a wider group over time. Since its debut, users have posted over a billion Bits to be used in their Cheers, says Twitch, dubbing the program a “success.”
With this forthcoming Affiliate program, Twitch is essentially setting up a second tier of creators who will also gain access to this tool, and soon others. This perhaps blurs the line a bit between the larger and smaller communities on Twitch’s service, but it also gives more creators the ability to grow their channels.
Partners, meanwhile, will have specific tools for managing their larger communities that won’t be available to Affiliates. In addition, when the Affiliate program launches, Partners will also receive a new Verified Chat Badge that will further designate their Partner status on the platform.
According to Twitch, creators will be invited to the Affiliate program based on a number of criteria, including time spent streaming, viewership numbers, and follower count. In other words, it’s not open to just anyone streaming on Twitch – you have to be invited.
The company isn’t detailing the specifics of those requirements, but when pressed for details, a Twitch rep put it like this: “the bar is very low and essentially requires just streaming on a regular basis and a very small number of viewers.”

Cheering will be the first of several monetization tools made available to Affiliates in the months ahead. The company will also eventually roll out access to other features, like Subscriptions, Game Commerce, and Advertising to these creators, it says. Twitch did not offer a time frame for these other features becoming available.
While Twitch didn’t specifically say exactly how many Affiliates will be gaining access to these tools, it did note that today there are 17,000 Partners out of a total of 2.2 million unique streamers per month. Affiliates will be a slice of that larger audience – Twitch says that “tens of thousands” of non-Partnered channels will be invited to participate.
This is a significant move for Twitch in terms of growing its creator community, and therefore its wider user base. As with YouTube before it, when you provide ways for people to make money from their videos, they’re likely to produce more content, which in turn increases the overall community’s engagement. And Twitch, of course, is also filling its own coffers as it rolls out these tools more broadly, given that it takes a cut of things like these Cheering Bits and Subscriptions.
Last year, when Twitch had around two million active streamers and 100 million unique monthly users, Piper Jaffrey’s Gene Munster predicted Twitch could be worth $20 billion, generating $1 billion in revenue, by the year 2020. Those figures may need to be adjusted now that Twitch’s money-making tools are opening up to more creators.
Twitch hasn’t yet announced a firm launch date for its Affiliate Program, only telling us that it would launch “very, very soon” worldwide.

Update: The program launched late in the day on April 24, 2017. 
This is going to be a lot of fun. MIXhalo was founded by Incubus guitarist Mike Einziger and the startup is set to reveal its first product at Disrupt NY 2017. And Mike is bringing some other famous friends to help.
MIXhalo has developed a way to distribute audio to a crowd — like at a concert — in a way, they say, is even better than what the musicians hear on stage. And there seem to be significant broader applications for the tech, too.
Founder Mike Einziger enlisted the help of Pharrell Williams (a MIXhalo advisor & investor) to show off what the company has developed in special presentation at Disrupt NY. They are set to take the main Disrupt stage at the close of the show, just prior to when we announce the winner of Startup Battlefield. And yes, they will be performing a special musical performance for the audience.
The event is open to all Disrupt attendees and it will be streamed live like the rest of the conference. But only those at the venue will be able to experience the MIXhalo technology firsthand.
So, obviously, we’re thrilled to have MIXhalo at the show.
Since the first Disrupt, TechCrunch has strived to showcase startups upending traditional paradigms. This is mostly done through chats on the stage and Startup Battlefield, where a couple dozen startups compete each Disrupt for $50,000 and loads of press. Occasionally, a startup like MIXhalo comes along that is showcased best in a different format.
Viv was no different. Founded by Dag Kittlaus, who also founded the company that developed Siri, the startup launched with a demo at Disrupt NY 2016 and was acquired by Samsung later in the year.
MIXhalo joins a full agenda for Disrupt NY 2017. From the NYT’s Mike Thompson to Facebook’s Fidji Simo to New York’s own Derek Jeter, the three-day show is packed.
Registered Disrupt attendees will receive more information about this demo during the conference.
General admission tickets and exhibit packages are still available for purchase. The show runs May 15 to May 17. Students can get tickets at a lower price here and additional Hackathon tickets will be released shortly. We’re excited to bring Disrupt to New York City for the seventh time and hope you can make the show.
Samsung and Google today announced a new partnership that will make Google Play Music the default music player and music service including on new Samsung phone and tablets worldwide, starting with the launch of the Galaxy S8 and S8+. The deal comes with an added bonus for Samsung users – they’ll be able to upload up to 100,000 of their own songs to Google Play Music for free.
This is double the storage capacity typically offered. Currently Google Play Music offers free storage and playback of up to 50,000 songs from a user’s personal collection.
With the deal, new Samsung phones and tablets will come with an included three-month trial of Google Play Music. This subscription includes features competitive with rivals like Spotify, Apple Music, Pandora Premium, and others, such as ad-free listening, on-demand access to over 40 million songs, and curated playlists. It also includes access to YouTube Red, for watching ad-free videos across YouTube.
In addition, Google promises that its service will work with Samsung’s own personal assistant software, Bixby, when it launches later in the spring. That means you’ll be able to speak to ask the assistant to do things like play a particular song or even a genre of music.
The partnership follows Samsung’s decision to exit the music business last fall, when it shut down its U.S. mobile music service, Milk Music, after failing to gain traction. The company was also rumored to be acquiring Jay Z’s Tidal music service, but later denied that a deal was in the works.
At the time it announced Milk Music’s closure, Samsung hinted that a deal like this one with Google could be the path it was choosing to take next, saying then that it had “made the strategic decision to invest in a partner model focused on seamlessly integrating the best music services available today into our family of Galaxy devices.”

		
Welcome back to Equity, TechCrunch’s venture capital-focused podcast. This episode Katie Roof, Matthew Lynley and myself were joined by Ethan Kurzweil of Bessemer Venture Partners for a lively-as-heck conversation covering the biggest financial news of the week.
First up was Uber’s newly disclosed financials. The company has a history of leaks and losses, but this time around we read corporate-approved numbers detailing quickly growing revenue (expected), stiff losses (expected), and some interesting accounting results (unexpected) that skew the company’s profile slightly as 2016 came to a close.
Also on tap was Cloudera’s recent proposed IPO pricing, the massive Chewy deal, Moat’s exit to Oracle and everyone’s favorite thing to mock — Juicero.
It was a fun week, and we’ll be back next Friday with all the latest. Equity drops every Friday at 6:00am PT, so subscribe to us on iTunes, Overcast, Pocketcast, Downcast and all the casts.
Uber’s management is expecting an external investigation of its workplace culture to report by the end of May.
The investigation was announced earlier this year after a storm of negative publicity following a blog post written by Susan Fowler, a female former employee, which contained allegations of sexual harassment and systemic sexism in the workplace.
In an internal memo sent by Uber board director Arianna Huffington yesterday, and obtained by Recode, the company briefly updates its employees on the progress of the investigation, saying that Eric Holder and Tammy Albarran, the partners at law firm Covington & Burling who are leading the probe, have requested and been granted more time “to complete their assessment”.
Huffington implies that the need for extra time for the investigation is a consequence of the volume of information already received, noting the investigators have received information from “hundreds of employees”.
However, according to Recode, several “key figures” including top HR execs have not yet been interviewed by Holder. It cites sources saying his intention is to conduct these outstanding interviews in the coming weeks.
We’re reached out to Uber for comment and will update this post with any response.
Fowler’s blog post contains plentiful references to problems she says she encountered with Uber’s HR department after reporting sexual harassment and sexism in the workplace to them. So it would be a huge oversight if the investigation did not thoroughly interrogate key HR figures.
Uber’s CEO Travis Kalanick announced the investigation to Uber employees on February 20 — so if they stick to the end of May timeframe the probe will have lasted some three months.
The latest memo reads:

Subject line: An update on the Holder report
Hi everybody,
When Eric Holder and Tammy Albarrán began their review, the Board subcommittee (consisting of David Bonderman, Bill Gurley, and myself) to which Eric and Tammy have been reporting on a weekly basis assured them that they would have all the support and time necessary to conduct an intensive, thorough review of Uber’s workplace and culture. Eric and Tammy have now asked us for more time to complete their assessment, which includes information received from hundreds of employees through interviews and anonymous online focus groups and reflects the global scale of the company’s operations. To ensure that no stone is left unturned, the Board subcommittee has granted that request and we anticipate the report by the end of May.
Thank you,
Arianna


Featured Image: Krisztian Bocsi/Bloomberg via Getty Images
Fresh from raising $90 million from investors in March, Iflix, a Netflix-like service for emerging markets, has announced its first slate of original content.
The Malaysia-headquartered business claims five million registered users across 10 countries — it recently branched out into Africa and the Middle East — for its service which costs around $3 per month. Beyond cheaper pricing, Iflix has differentiated itself by hosting local content as well as Western programming, but today it announced that it has commissioned its first original drama series, Magic Hour, and a comedy series that will be localized in three countries.
Magic Hour is an eight-part series follow-up to the 2015 Indonesian hit film of the same name, and it will feature the same two lead actors who stared in the big screen production. There’s no timeframe on when it will be released, but Iflix has high hopes given that the film itself was Indonesia’s fifth-highest grossing movie of 2015.
The comedy series is an altogether different production that Iflix said will bring “humour previously only heard in comedy clubs” to the streaming service. Also an eight-part series, it will be localized in Malaysia, the Philippines and Indonesia with each version containing its own hosts and local cultural take.

In addition, Iflix is also working to get quick access to locally produced cinema films in Southeast Asia, its primary market. To that end, it said it has agreed to a deal with Malaysia-based indie firm Skop Productions — and its Viper Studios affiliate — that will see its films brought to Iflix as soon as 20 days after they complete their cinema run. In addition, Skop will produce an undisclosed mini-series that will air exclusively on Iflix.
“We are thrilled to work with local top tier industry players to offer our members so many of the region’s top entertainment franchises, whilst supporting them in broadening their distribution channels out of cinema,” Sean Carey, the former Netflix executive who recently became Iflix chief content officer, said in a statement.
Netflix has gradually increased its focus on emerging markets since it launched its service globally in January 2016. It particular, it has added a download feature, inked distribution deals with mobile operators and commissioned local programming in countries like India. Amazon has also joined the global battle after it expanded its Prime Video service worldwide in December. Iflix hopes to rival the duo using an approach that places emphasis on local programming, distribution deals and lower pricing.
That strategy has won backing from investors like British broadcast Sky, and possible more — Iflix said its recent $90 million round isn’t closed and could be increased. At the end of 2015, we reported that the firm was raising an ambitious $150 million to globalize its business, showing that it harbors intentions to expand into more frontier markets worldwide.

Featured Image: Vernon Chan/Flickr UNDER A CC BY 2.0 LICENSE (IMAGE HAS BEEN MODIFIED)
Elon Musk has been working on a Neuralink, a human-computer brain interface company, in whatever spare moments he has between running Tesla and also running SpaceX. Neuralink’s ultimate aim may actually be the most ambitious of all three of his companies, surprisingly, and a new exploration of the foundational ideas behind Neuralink on Wait But Why goes deep within what Musk hopes to achieve by creating better, higher-bandwidth connections between our brains and computers.
Musk has confirmed that he will indeed occupy the CEO role at Neuralink, which means he’ll be the CEO of three separate companies. But Neuralink’s goals definitely sound the most science fictional of all three of his ventures, which is saying something considering Musk’s SpaceX is all about making humans an intergalactic colonial species.
Basically, Musk seems to want to achieve a communications leap equivalent in impact to when humans came up with language – this proved an incredibly efficient way to convey thoughts socially at the time, but what Neuralink aims to do is increase that efficiency by multiple factors of magnitude. Person-to-person, Musk’s vision would enable direct “uncompressed” communication of concepts between people, instead of having to effectively “compress” your original thought by translating it into language, and then having the other party “decompress” the package you send them linguistically, which is always a lossy process.
Neuralink’s tech would also be able to help humans keep pace with the rapid advances in AI, and would achieve this by basically integrating AI with human consciousness. Neuralink’s tech would enable human use of AI as just an additional faculty – like our sense of selves or other higher in-brain thought faculties. Making it possible to connect with such high bandwidth directly into the brain would allow us to integrate cloud-based AI computing within our selves in a way that’s indistinguishable from our core selves, Musk proposes, much like how most people would now find it difficult to separate their statements and expressions in language from the parts of the brain that generate them.
This tech is still far away from any kind of broad commercial application – maybe farther than a SpaceX trip to Mars. Musk says that it’s probably going to be at least “eight to 10 years” before tech the company produces can be used by someone without a disability. Neuralink is aiming to create therapeutic applications of its tech first, which will likely help as it seeks the necessary regulatory approvals for human trials.
Musk taking on a third CEO role is bound to raise eyebrows among his company’s investors, but Neuralink’s mission is in keeping with the aim of his other two companies: All three focus on solving problems that present what Musk would term existential threats – Neuralink’s agenda of countering AI not least among them.

Featured Image: Sebastian Kaulitzki/Shutterstock
If you’ve been holding out patiently for the Galaxy S8 and Galaxy S8+, Samsung’s newest flagship devices, then your wait may soon be over after the phones went on sale in an initial four markets.
Samsung is starting sales in the U.S., Canada, Puerto Rico and Korea today (Friday), with expansions to other countries coming “in the weeks ahead,” it said.
In case you missed the reviews this week, TechCrunch’s Brian Heater described the devices as yet further evidence that Samsung produces the best Android smartphones on the planet, although he believes that the software side of the experience doesn’t match up to the hardware.

To recap, the 5.8-inch S8 is priced at $725 while the larger, 6.2 inch S8+ comes in at $825. For that money, customers will get an infinity display, next-gen processor and solid camera experience that keeps Samsung at the front of the Android handset race. That being said, neither models ships with Samsung’s Bixby smart assistant. The much-anticipated service, which Samsung put forward as one of the phone’s key selling points, will come to the S8 series via an update that is due out in the spring.
Initially readings look positive for Samsung, with the company selling a record one million pre-orders in Korea alone, although there are rumors of supply chain issues in the country. More wider, analysts have tipped global sales to reach at least 45 million units. Analyst firms remain divided over whether Galaxy S8 sales will exceed last year’s Galaxy S7 series, which reached an estimated 48 million units worldwide. Nonetheless, Samsung is looking at a 50 percent year-on-year profit jump when it reports its next earnings this month — that’s primarily down its memory chip business, but a good selling flagship would be another welcome addition for the company.
Neil Haran
Contributor


Neil Haran is an angel investor and cryptocurrency advocate. 

Speculators flocked to Bitcoin and many of the alt-coins in hopes of getting in early and making a big exit, but everyday users haven’t warmed to cryptocurrencies.
There are many reasons why, but one of the largest barriers to mainstream adoption is the price volatility of cryptocurrencies.
So the question is, why do the prices change so much in the first place? It comes down to supply and demand: Most cryptocurrencies have only a fixed total supply, and yet demand for the coins is uncertain and constantly fluctuating thanks to speculation.
Of course, it’s easy enough to talk about the problem — coming up with a solution is quite another matter.
Why is stability so important?
The need for stability is not unique to cryptocurrency. Any currency needs to be stable in order to be used as a trusted medium of exchange. The more that prices rise and fall, the more ordinary people will shy away from using the coins for everyday transactions.
Whether they hoard the coins in the hope that prices will rise sharply soon, or they avoid using them altogether for fear that they will lose all of their value, people are not yet accustomed to seeing cryptocurrency as real money.
Worse, the unpredictability of prices wreaks havoc on regular money services, like remittance, currency conversion, and the use of ATMs. In order to use cryptocurrencies, businesses have to hedge their risks by charging exorbitant fees.
Bitcoin ATMs can charge up to 15 percent just to convert to fiat currency. This totally defeats the original purpose of cryptocurrencies, which was to offer a cheaper and more flexible alternative to other payment methods. With no advantage over government-printed money, why would the average person use them?
Patience is a virtue
Price volatility has plagued Bitcoin from nearly the beginning. With what we have learned over the better part of a decade, why have cryptocurrencies still not solved this problem of fluctuating prices?
Human nature gets in the way, as it tends to do. It is difficult to stabilize prices in a world where people would rather play the market and get instant gratification by re-selling their coins for as high a price as possible. Without careful planning from the very onset of a cryptocurrency’s existence, it’s hard to recover from the effects of speculation.
Image: JaaakWorks/iStock/Getty Images
Phase 1: Building a stable ecosystem
When building a cryptocurrency from scratch, you first need a solid foundation. From this foundation, the currency can grow and self-correct as it develops.
Gauging demand
The first piece of the puzzle is being able to reliably predict demand. Uncertainty around demand is the main cause of price fluctuation, as every user’s intentions are a mystery to every other user. Having a way to gauge real demand for a coin would go a long way in fixing this problem.
The issue with predicting demand, though, is the existence of speculators creating artificial demand. This is the core of the problem: With so much speculation, the price for the cryptocurrency will not reflect its actual usage and demand. It simply becomes a bubble that is constantly on the verge of bursting, and no one wants to risk their hard-earned money on that.
Traditionally, the solution to the problem of stability was to have a central bank. The government could then alter the money supply at will, for example by causing inflation. Cryptocurrencies are by definition decentralized — that is part of their advantage — and without a central bank they need an entirely new approach when it comes to squashing volatility. They need to do this without compromising the freedom of the users and without resorting to inflation.
Cooperation over competition: A decentralized community
“United we stand, divided we fall.”
What if there was a currency that encouraged people to cooperate? What if people were incentivized by a spirit of growth, rather than of greed? Under the ideal model, a network of cooperative businesses and services would coordinate with each other as a single unit. The coin would be shaped democratically by this co-op (shaped not controlled). Every user would have incentives to help the network grow as a whole, and the use of a blockchain would help make the process be fair.
Instead of rampant online speculation, users would visit local exchanges to buy and sell the currency. The community as a whole would vote on when to increase the coin’s price, which would keep things democratic and guard against sharp spikes.

Official local exchanges
Having to look other users in the eye can make a world of difference. Face-to-face exchanges at trusted locations means that the sale of a coin can be more easily limited, and this can act as a throttle to gauge demand. People on the “front lines,” seeing the real demand for the coin in person, can then vote to increase the price. Having stable locations to exchange the currency also creates consistency. It removes the guessing game of wondering where you can buy and sell your coin.
The advantages are not just purely economic, either. Cryptocurrencies don’t exactly have the best reputation thanks to their penchant for attracting unscrupulous people. Unethical or illegal businesses will tend to be voted out of cooperative networks with face-to-face exchanges, however, which can go a long way toward legitimizing the currency. It would still be possible to run such enterprises of course, but they would never be part of the co-op.
Local exchange dominance
This kind of approach can only work if there are dramatically more local exchanges than online exchanges. It would mean that the local exchanges would dictate the pricing of the currency.
Marketing early can be disastrous
Marketing is a powerful force, and as such it needs to be handled with care. On the one hand, founders naturally want to attract investment early on. This will raise the price of the coin and help pay for infrastructure, as well as boost the growth of the coin. On the other hand, historically the earliest investors in cryptocurrency have been extremely low quality — they are the speculators who doom the currency in the long run and scare away mainstream users.
With speculation, capital infusion is needed to keep the currency stable, which can be a significant task. Take Bitcoin for instance: With a market cap of roughly $20 billion, it would need a huge amount of capital to have a stable floor.

Slow and steady wins the race
Cryptocurrencies are still in their infancy, and it’s hard to tell where the path for most of the major currencies is headed. What is the “finish line” that they are aiming for? What will the end game be? Most cryptocurrencies have little direction besides the whims of the market, so there’s no telling where they will end up. However, there are a handful of interesting coins that have invested in strategies that nudge them in a specific direction.
The central app coin method
This is a strategy that is centered around creating value with unique products and services that are associated with the currency. In this way, you could say that the currency is backed by something that people actually want.
For example, the MaidSafe network incentivizes users to provide something of value to the network (storage space), and offers the use of apps and services in return for coins. This naturally leads to better cooperation. People want to create value and channel their efforts toward the growth of the currency that they have in common.
The setup and switch method
Similar to the central app strategy, this method establishes a user base first, and then introduces the currency. Bitshares and its array of associated startups is a good example of this. Several networks with varying currencies — Steemit and their STEEM currency, Peerplays and their tokens, for instance — slowly built their user base and value exchange system, and now they plan to adopt a central currency with Bitshares. This allows them to create a stable base first before pooling their resources.
The grassroots movement
Finally, the best way for a currency to create that all-important foundation of true users is through bootstrapping. Just like a business startup, a currency like this would need a user base that believed in a common mission. It would need everyone in the system to be able to see the inherent value of the coin, and to understand that it could be worth much more than the value it is traded for in its early stages.
An example of one of these grassroots efforts is FairCoin. It’s a currency established and led by FairCoop, whose strategy is to build an ecosystem where businesses cooperate to give users maximum value. It is a currency built from the ground up to incentivize the long-term interests of users instead of their short-term greed — not just because it’s the right thing to do, but because it makes sense.
FairCoin focused from the beginning on building infrastructure for everyday users. Because of the strong relationships among members of the co-op, they can have thousands of ATMs, debit cards and exchanges that make mass adoption much easier.
An approach like this allows the currency to slowly build itself in the background without the need for a spotlight and the barrage of speculators that come with it. This offers the huge advantage of stability from the very beginning, though it does pose the problem that FairCoin has to bootstrap with less capital than most coins. Unlike other cryptocurrencies, they can’t rely on CoinMarketCap to sing their praises by displaying artificially rising prices (the effects of speculation).
In other words, FairCoin traded the excitement of volatility and greed for a quiet, long-term stability. The only problem is that people might not notice! Drama catches the human eye, after all.

Hard forks
Let’s take a look at the hard fork that looms in the horizon for Bitcoin. As if things weren’t complicated enough, now there could be two competing chains for the currency. There are already many technical barriers to Bitcoin’s adoption among mainstream users, and this is yet another one. This makes the price even more uncertain, and uncertainty is like poison for a currency.
On the other hand, if you have a large community and a co-op on top of an immutable blockchain, then a hard fork is extremely unlikely — and unnecessary. Cryptocurrencies like MaidSafe, Bitshares and FairCoin all represent solid communities that are incentivized to cooperate instead of speculate. This means that the coin can be worth more than its market price; it has a high inherent value within the system itself.
This makes it so that users have very little reason to defect from the existing community. A hard fork would mean giving up many benefits of the co-op, so people stay loyal to the original vision of the currency. When something deeper than just greed ties a community, hard forks don’t occur as often.
Conclusion
Stable prices don’t just happen by accident. They are not a miracle of the market — they require a carefully constructed foundation. A stable currency needs a stable ecosystem first.
While it’s tempting to market the currency too soon because capital injection can do a lot to raise prices in those critical early periods, it’s better to wait. Advertising is like opening up Pandora’s box and inviting the world to look inside. Some of those users will be interested in the actual currency, but others will be undesirable speculators that just leech off the system. For a currency to be stable, it needs to be used by “the 99%,” not just a handful of investors.
A currency needs to grow with the people, not past them. Look at the state of Bitcoin and its inflated prices. The everyday person can no longer either mine the coin or expect to use the coin in everyday transactions without high fees or risk. It has been given up to the speculators.
With a truly stable currency, on the other hand, you can have currency conversion, remittance, ATM withdrawals and other financial services with lower fees than fiat systems. In other words, it can be used as intended — as money. This is what will ultimately attract a mainstream audience and will actually incentivize them to make the switch to cryptocurrency.

Featured Image: Bryce Durbin/TechCrunch
According to Snap’s S-1 filing for its IPO, of the $400 million in revenues the company has, $360 million is made by selling “Geofilters,” or photo filters based on location, which advertisers can buy. So owning the patent on that concept would seem pretty crucial. But Snap has never had such a patent, until now.
Mobli, an Instagram competitor launched six years ago that failed to get ahead of its competitor, actually patented the idea of Geo-photo filters in 2012, after launching it the previous year.
But according to sources, serial entrepreneur and investor Moshe Hogeg, who co-founded Mobli, sold Mobli’s Geofilters patent to Snap this month for $7.7 million. This is believed to be the highest amount paid for a patent from the Israeli tech industry. The news was confirmed in an email to Mobli’s 100 shareholders and obtained by TechCrunch in the form of a screen grab, displayed below:

Sources say Snap wanted the patent to protect itself from future litigation.
The patent (US#20160373805, US#9459778) was named Methods and Systems of providing visual content editing functions. The specific nature of the patent covered server-side filters, meaning the filter was coming from the server instead of from inside the app, which means the app itself doesn’t have to be updated every time there is a new Geo-photo filter to push.
TechCrunch understands that Mobli first spoke to Facebook about selling the patent. Facebook “100% wanted it,” according to one source.
However, other Silicon Valley sources poured scorn on the idea that Facebook had even been offered the patent, with one source familiar with both companies commenting that Mobli wasn’t on the radar of local power players.
A Facebook spokesperson said the company had no comment to make.
Whatever the case, had Facebook secured the patent, it would have destroyed Snap’s ability to garner revenues from geo-filters, and thus Snap’s main source of income.
Typically patents can cost $10,000 to $300, or up to a million dollars. The most expensive in Israel to date was a $2.7 million patent to do with Google Maps.
Mobli’s original patent for Geofilters was approved in 2014, long before Snapchat created the Geofilters feature.
Asked to confirm the story, Moshe Hogeg replied to TechCrunch with “No comment.” We have reached out to Snap for comment.
Well, this is something else. A bunch of mostly male Uber employees decided to get together to spray taint (paint) a wall in San Francisco, basically begging people to reinstall the app if they’ve deleted it in light of all the scandals at Uber, The Verge reported. The employees painted “Undelete.”
Why “Undelete”? Well, it refers to the days when we all freaked out (rightfully so) at Uber for its ties to 45, and then again following Susan Fowler Rigetti’s claims of sexual harassment at the company.
“Uber came by our San Francisco gallery to create a custom mural on our wall!” graffiti and street art organization First Amendment (1AM) wrote on its blog. “This team building activity is great for large groups that want to experience the process of creating a giant mural together along with learning the history of graffiti and street art.”
Aww, look how happy they seem!
To be honest, this does seem like a really cool way to bond with teammates. But it’s just hilarious that these employees, based on the photo above, were mostly male. I wonder why more of Uber’s female employees didn’t want to be a part of it 🤔.
I’ve reached out to Uber about this and will update the story if I hear back. In the meantime, holler if you spot the mural out in the wild!

Featured Image: 1AM
Today’s Stories 

Google Home can now recognize up to six voices and give personalized responses
Google said to be planning a built-in ad blocker for Chrome
GoPro to release prosumer spherical camera in fall 2017
FTC tells ‘influencers’ to quit trying to hide the fact that they’re shilling for brands
Shopify launches a free, in-house-designed card reader

Credits
Written and Hosted by: Anthony HaFilmed by: Matthew MauroEdited by: Joe Zolnoski
Notes
Tito Hamze is on vacation until April 27. But isn’t a satisfying career the best vacation of all?
Apple’s Live Photos are fun — they’ve definitely captured a few unexpected magical moments for me that standard stills would’ve missed. But for the most part, they live on your phone and stay within the confines of your apps. Seeing them floating around the web, especially on a desktop browser, has always been something of a rarity.
Tumblr kicked down that wall a bit last year by adding Live Photos to its web version and releasing a tool to let others do the same. When it came to an official Apple-approved method, however, there was nothing to be found.
That quietly changed this morning, with Apple updating its developer portal with a new tool they’re calling LivePhotosKit. It’s a JavaScript API built specifically to bring Live Photo playback support to your sites.
We can’t embed the Live Photos here just yet (or the way-better-than-GIF format WebM for that matter, hence the super-chunky GIF up top), but you can see a working example here.
It looks pretty slick in action, but Apple’s example mechanism for triggering playback here… doesn’t seem super intuitive.
Do I click? Do I hover over the image? It just started playing for a second when I was scrolling… is that the key?
Turns out, the trick is hovering your mouse cursor over the little “LIVE” box in the upper right. It’s easy to remember once you’ve figured it out, but for about 20 seconds I was convinced something was broken.
Apple’s documentation for the new API suggests that this should play friendly with most of the major browsers, mobile or otherwise.
We’re all pretty used to two-factor authentication now, and it isn’t much of an inconvenience to have to type in a four-digit code when you log in from a new location. But some Swiss security researchers came up with a smart way to authenticate without even that tiny amount of work: ambient noise.
The idea behind multi-factor authentication is basically making sure that a login is by the actual user, not an impersonator or hacker. Sending a code to a second device owned by the user is one way to check, but it’s far from the only option.
Futurae is a spin-off company from the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology Zurich — ETHZ in Swiss — that uses the environment itself as an authentication token in a piece of software it calls Sound-Proof.
When a service wants to do an authentication check, it queries the device attempting to log in and the user’s personal device, probably a smartphone. It records 3 seconds of audio on each and compares them; if the two are substantially similar, the conclusion is that the user is in the same place as the device logging in, and therefore it must be legitimate, and the login proceeds.
For example, if the same part of the same song was playing in the background for both devices, or speech with the same peaks or words, that would be okay. But if the phone heard only birdsong and the laptop heard a crowd of voices, that would be a no go. The company claims it works if your phone is in your pocket, your bag or even an adjoining room.
If it’s totally quiet, ultrasound can be used in place of background noise, with the login-requesting device firing off a series of chirps inaudible to the human ear but able to be picked up by the app on the phone.
Naturally all this is compared strictly on the waveform level and the sounds sampled never leave the device.
Sure, it isn’t going to replace numerical tokens or dongles altogether, but it could be used as an additional factor or risk assessment technique.
Futurae recently won 130,000 Swiss francs (which are almost exactly equivalent to U.S. dollars right now) from the local Venture Kick competition; the company plans to use the cash to bring Sound-Proof from demo form to commercial product.

Featured Image: Getty Images / Mike Powles
Jeff Dunn, the former Coca-Cola executive who became CEO of Juicero last year, has responded to a wave of coverage suggesting that the company’s juice press isn’t all that was promised — and he’s offering dissatisfied customers their money back.
A Bloomberg report showed that Juicero’s packs could be squeezed by hand, no expensive juicer required.
Dunn’s response? He doesn’t deny that hand-squeezing is a very real possibility, but he does quibble about what you’ll find inside, saying it’s “nothing but fresh, raw, organic chopped produce” — see, it’s not juice yet because it hasn’t been pressed.
“What you will get with hand-squeezed hacks is a mediocre (and maybe very messy) experience that you won’t want to repeat once, let alone every day,” he argued. More importantly, he said, “The value of Juicero is more than a glass of cold-pressed juice. Much more.”
What … does that mean? According to Dunn, Juicero’s technology (which is supposed to involve 400 custom parts, including 10 printed circuit boards, a scanner and a microprocessor) allows the company to create “the first closed loop food safety system,” so Juicero could disable produce packs if there’s, say, a spinach recall — which may not sound like a huge selling point, but these things do happen.

Related Articles
Dunn also said the Press is “calibrated by flavor to deliver the best combination of taste and nutrition every time” and that the data from the machine helps the company manage its supply chain.
“The value is in how easy it is for a frazzled dad to do something good for himself while getting the kids ready for school, without having to prep ingredients and clean a juicer,” Dunn said. “It’s in how the busy professional who needs more greens in her life gets App reminders to press Produce Packs before they expire, so she doesn’t waste the hard-earned money she spent on them.”
At the beginning of his post, Dunn said his goal was to “demonstrate the incredible value we know our connected system delivers.” And if you’re not convinced this is worth $400, well, there’s another option for disillusioned Juicero buyers — Dunn said the company’s “Happiness Guarantee” (i.e. its return policy) has been extended to cover anyone who’s ever purchased a Juicero Press. So for the next 30 days, anyone who’s bought a Press should be able to return it for a full refund.
Plastc is throwing in the towel today. The smart card maker sent a message to backers (which now also graces the startup’s homepage) announcing that it’s “exploring options” for filing Chapter 7 and, more importantly, is shutting down all operations as of today.
The company was apparently on the most shoestring of budgets, holding out hope that it would be able to stay open as late as this week, courtesy of a planned $6.75 million in funding. The letter reads like the climactic scene in a movie about a tech startup, with the funding round just “a signature away from closing.” This one’s got a pretty bummer of an ending, though.
Word that the investor was backing out apparently only came down yesterday, leaving the company “extremely caught off guard.” Complicating things is the apparent fact that the company had another key round of funding ($3.5 million) fall through at the tail end of February.
Meantime, existing investors kept the company afloat, but it takes a lot more than keeping-afloat-money to actually get a product into production. As such, this news also means the company won’t be fulfilling any of its pre-orders, a fact that has, unsurprisingly, pissed off supporters, who have already taken to Facebook in hopes of getting their money back.
We’ve reached out to CEO Ryan Marquis for comment, but I’m not really getting my hopes up. The company is basically ghosting the internet, save for the aforementioned note. Its Twitter page looks to have been taken down.
On its face, this is a story about a startup that failed to secure its latest round of funding, and couldn’t produce a product after a year and a half and a reported $9 million worth of pre-order backing. It’s a startup cautionary tale and also another indictment of the smart card space.
Coin was a success story of sorts in that it was acquired by Fitbit last year, shutting down all services in early 2017 — though that tech was purchased to power a future smartwatch, divorcing it from a standalone card. Swyp has been plagued by all manner of delays, while Stratos has been a big mess for a while, finally selling its platform to Danish company CardLab in January.
There’s clearly been interest in the space over the last few years, but certainly not enough to launch a truly successful platform here in the States. And certainly the usefulness of the technology has been immensely downgraded with the surge of payment solutions from hardware and software companies, from Apple to Facebook.
This might not be the official end of the smart card dream, as a few are still alive and kicking, but there doesn’t seem to be a hell of a lot of life left.
Confide, the encrypted chat app that’s reportedly popular among Trump staffers, is facing a class action lawsuit that claims Confide misled consumers about its ability to protect messages from being screenshotted or saved.
The suit, filed in U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York by a Confide customer who paid $6.99 per month for a premium version of the app, alleges that Confide doesn’t live up to its claims of ephemerality and screenshot protection. In the lawsuit, Confide user Jeremy Auman alleges that it’s possible to take screenshots of messages when using the Windows desktop version of the app. Auman also says that the Windows and macOS versions of the app don’t send notifications to all parties in the conversation if a screenshot is taken, as Confide claims.
These issues amount to false advertising, Auman alleges. Confide CEO Jon Brod told TechCrunch, “Not surprisingly, the accusations set forth in the complaint are unfounded and without merit. We look forward to responding to this frivolous complaint and seeing this case swiftly thrown out of court.”
Auman’s allegations follow research published last month by Quarkslab, which suggested that Confide’s end-to-end encryption wasn’t as secure as advertised.
“Confide fails to deliver on two of the three requirements that it espouses as necessary for confidential communications: ephemerality and screenshot protection. Absent these protections, Confide knows that it cannot deliver on its promise to consumers that communications sent through it will be confidential,” the lawsuit claims. “Confide ensured that any message sent through its messaging platform is (and has been) at risk of storage. Consumers who erroneously thought they were using a secure platform to send confidential and potentially compromising information are now at great risk of having that information used against them.”
Auman is represented in the lawsuit by Edelson PC, a law firm that often pursues consumer privacy cases against tech companies. His attorney, Chris Dore, said in a statement, “Individuals ranging from an average consumer all the way up to government officials at the highest level have realized the importance of secure communications. And as such, that range of people put their trust in the representations made by Confide to protect their private correspondence. Our suit seeks to hold Confide accountable to the level of security it promised.”
Shopify introduced a new product at its developer conference today, which will reduce friction during online orders and simplify checkout across any stores that run on Shopify’s ecommerce platform. Shopify Pay is similar to other instant payment solutions that store your info for fast access later on, including PayPal Express Checkout, but it works across any store using Shopify as mentioned, and it reduces the number of fields a customer has to fill out during checkout from 16 fields down to just two.
The Shopify Pay checkout process also offers security while reducing complexity; after you opt-in during an initial checkout, which users will see the first time they make a purchase on a Shopify store, you’ll receive a 6-digit verification code when subsequent Shopify stores recognize your email address. This comes in via SMS, like a second factor authentication code might, and you then just type that code into the field that pops up in order to complete the transaction.
This automatically fills out your stored payment and shipping address information, which then lets users finish the process with just one tap or click to confirm the order. It works across platforms where Shopify is available, too, letting you use it on desktop and mobile browsers and via apps.
The new Shopify Pay flow is very simple, but it’s also not mandatory – Shopify Product Manger Richard Btaiche tells me merchants can opt out of using the service on their store. But it’s designed entirely to speed up the end of the purchase process, which is when so many carts end up abandoned, so it’s likely to drive a significant increase in sales for just about any merchant that uses it. Shopify speeds up the checkout process by 40 percent, and conversions occur around 18 percent more among returning customers thanks to the added ease of making a purchase.
For consumers, it’s a big convenience feature, of course, and Shopify says it’s secure because the info is stored on Shopify’s own PCI compliant servers. Plus, only someone with access to your phone can make a purchase using the system.
Shopify has already worked closely with both Apple and Google on Apple Pay and Android Pay integration across its platform, but this provides a third accelerated checkout option that can work alongside those, and that can sub in when those aren’t available, like on unowned and shared devices or third-party browsers.
This feature only stands to get better over time, as more merchants use the Shopify platform. It’s a strong competitive advantage for Shopify, especially since it’s designed to help its users get more sales, which is all they really want anyway. Shopify Pay is starting to roll out now, and will be available to all merchants, new and existing, in about a month’s time.
Advertisement		


Amazon has quietly introduced a change to its Alexa Skills Developer agreement aimed at further restricting advertisements within Alexa’s voice apps, which it calls “skills.” Previously, the developer agreement stated that it would ban apps that used the Alexa app home cards for ads – the cards that appear in the Alexa companion app – that can describe the skill in question or enhance the voice interaction with details provided as text-based content. Now the agreement simply bans skills that contain “any advertising for third-party products or services,” according to the updated documentation.
Amazon carves out an exception for streaming music, radio and flash briefing apps (news briefings) where advertisements are not the core functionality of the skill. But other than that, ads are now largely banned on the Alexa platform.
The change has irked some Alexa developers who already feel that it’s too difficult to make money from their Alexa skills, as is. Others, however, are confident that Amazon will eventually introduce its own monetization platform – perhaps through in-app purchases, paid skills, or ways to leverage Amazon Pay (its payments platform) in their skills.
While Amazon is following an ambitious path toward making its voice computing technology powerful and ubiquitous – including by opening access to Echo speaker technology, Alexa’s voice technology, and the underlying technologies that power Alexa’s abilities to understand language – it has yet to fully address the needs of developers who want to build their own app businesses on top of its voice computing platform.
In fact, this problem is so often discussed that there’s an inside joke in an active Slack community for Alexa developers that involves the posting of a snow cone emoji. The joke is that it’s easier to make more money selling snow cones than building Alexa skills. The emoji is posted in response complaints, including, most recently, the change to Amazon’s Alexa Developer agreement.

According to posters in this community, the agreement was updated on Tuesday. We’ve asked Amazon to confirm, but the company declined to comment.
However, you can compare the two versions of the agreement by looking at the one live on Amazon.com, and a version cached by the Internet Archive’s Wayback machine:

In the former, there’s only a one-line description of what sort of advertising is banned – those using home cards – while the newer one broadens that to include “any advertising.”
There was initially some speculation that the change was made in response to technology being developed by VoiceLabs, which has been testing an advertising platform aimed at Alexa Skill developers involving “Sponsored Messages,” as referenced here in a blog post.  These will allow developers to insert brief ads, similar to those in podcasts, but which are interactive.
VoiceLabs’ system allows partner advertisers to connect with consumers who use Alexa’s voice-powered apps. But because any one Skill wouldn’t have enough users to capture that ad spend, VoiceLabs’ system instead combines users across Skills. This aggregated audience is then sizable enough to gain advertisers’ attention and interest.
But VoiceLabs’ co-founder and CEO Adam Marchick disputes the idea it’s his system that’s at all related to the policy change. He says that Amazon has known about Sponsored Messages since January, and has been collaborating with VoiceLabs on its development.
In addition, of the 1,300 developers on VoiceLabs’ platform, the majority of those planning to use Sponsored Messages are creating flash briefings, which are not affected by the new policy.
“Amazon has a really hard job,” says Marchick. “Consumer adoption is growing really quickly for this device, and developers are excited to innovate.”
However, he did caution that advertising has to be carefully considered as adoption grows. “They have a huge hit on their hands, and they want to be considerate of the consumer. To date, we’ve seen some of the advertising, and it’s not been considerate,” he says.



Crunchbase






				Alexa			


 
Description
Alexa is an intelligent personal assistant developed by Amazon.com's Lab126 and made popular by the Echo.


Website
http://alexa.amazon.com/spa/index.html


Full profile for Alexa 



 



				Amazon			


 
Founded
1994


Overview
Amazon is an e-commerce retailer formed originally to provide consumers with products in two segments. It offers users with merchandise and content purchased for resale from vendors and those offered by third-party sellers.
 
Operating in North American and International markets, Amazon provides its services through websites such as amazon.com and amazon.ca. It also enables authors, musicians, filmmakers, …


Location

Seattle, WA



Categories

Crowdsourcing, 																													E-Commerce, 																													Internet, 																													Delivery, 																													Retail, 																													Software 


Founders
Jeff Bezos


Website

http://amazon.com 


Full profile for Amazon 



 



				Amazon Echo			


 
Description
Amazon Echo is designed around your voice.


Website
http://www.amazon.com/oc/echo/


Full profile for Amazon Echo 



 



				Amazon Web Services			


 
Founded
2006


Overview
Amazon Web Services provides information technology infrastructure services to businesses in the form of web services. Its products and solutions include cloud computing, compute, networking, storage and content delivery, databases, analytics, application services, deployment and management, mobile services, applications, AWS marketplace software, startups, enterprises, partners, government and education, …


Location

Seattle, WA



Categories

Web Development, 																													Software, 																													Information Technology, 																													Information Services 


Website

http://aws.amazon.com 


Full profile for Amazon Web Services 








The change does come at a time when consumers are increasingly sensitive to unwelcome voice ads invading their connected speakers. Google Home came under fire when its speaker began playing ads for Disney’s “Beauty and The Beast” movie. Google denied this was an ad, claiming that it was an experiment in having Google Home’s Assistant surface other unique content.
This month, Burger King hijacked Google Home speakers by creating an ad that would trigger the devices to read its Wikipedia entry for the Whopper, which it had conveniently edited beforehand to sound like marketing copy. Google quickly blocked the trigger, but not before the restaurant chain gained a lot of free press and consumer backlash.
Those examples are the same sort of advertisements that Amazon’s policy change are meant to head off, necessarily. But it does allow the company to summarily reject apps that are designed to use advertising in unwelcome ways – those that would ultimately annoy Alexa’s users, and decrease interest in voice computing in general.
It’s unclear to what extent Amazon will be enforcing this policy, however.
One developer, Joseph Jaquinta, who has been critical of Amazon’s policies, admits he’s openly violating the old ad policy in his skills. Both StarLanes and KnockKnock place ads in the home card – the former lets users play an ad for a bonus in the game, and the latter will simply read an ad to you and put it in your home card at some point.
“With 10,000 skills, how are you going to tell if someone starts advertising?” he asks. “I’m not seriously affected by the change in advertising policy. I had advertising in my skills before they even had a policy. And I’ve been in violation of their policy from the first day they introduced it. But they have zero enforcement and have never asked me about it.”
Enforcing ad policy is just one aspect of how Amazon isn’t tracking skills’ behavior. Developers also said you can update a skill’s content after it’s live and Amazon doesn’t notice the changes. This could end up being a workaround for the ad policy restrictions, for those developers who insist on breaking the advertising ban.

Featured Image: Bryce Durbin



0
SHARES




























if( !ads.isMobile() ){ window.TechCrunch.loader.on( 'gravity-beacon', function(){ window.tc_loadGravityScript( 'recirculation' ); } ); }


	(function($) {
		window._taboola = window._taboola || [];

		if ($('body').hasClass('single-post-mobile-collapse') && $(window).width() < 637) {
			$('.article-entry').append($(document.getElementById('taboola-below-article-thumbnails')).detach());
		}

		_taboola.push(
			{ mode: 'thumbnails-a', container: 'taboola-below-article-thumbnails', placement: 'Below Article Thumbnails', target_type: 'mix' }
		);
	})(window.jQuery);
Personal finance startup NerdWallet recently let go of more than 40 employees, TechCrunch has learned. As part of the changes, NerdWallet VP of growth Henry Hsu left the company and NerdWallet COO Dan Yoo is moving into an advisory role.
Hsu previously spent two years as a general manager at Box and three years at LinkedIn before that. Yoo, who joined NerdWallet in 2014, was formerly the VP of business operations and analytics at LinkedIn.
“Despite a record-breaking quarter, NerdWallet has decided to shift resources to align by consumer pain points, rather than by financial product families, and to consolidate multiple execution orgs under our CPO, Tapan Bhat,” NerdWallet CEO Tim Chen told TechCrunch in an email.
“We truly appreciate the contributions that these executives and departing Nerds have made,” Chen added. “Severance packages have been provided to all departing Nerds to make the transition as smooth as possible.”
The layoffs come just a few months after NerdWallet brought on Bhat as its first chief product officer. The layoffs represented 8 percent of NerdWallet’s staff; the company currently employs 440 people.
There’s no shortage of ways adversaries will employ to get you to click through to a malicious website, some technical, some psychological. This one is interesting because it leverages a useful feature of browsers that you might have never thought about.
Not all websites have names that can be written in the alphabet we that primarily English-speaking countries are familiar with. Why shouldn’t Russian websites use Cyrillic characters, or Japanese ones use kanji? After all, Unicode, the standard for displaying text worldwide, supports all these languages.

Related Articles
Unfortunately, it’s not standard to allow all those characters in URIs, and some systems only allow standard ASCII ones. The workaround arrived at by web authorities was a system called “punycode” that encodes international characters using ASCII notation. Browsers will know a URI is using the system because it’s always preceded by the characters “xn--“.
The whole process is done without informing the user; so “JP納豆.例.jp” becomes “xn--jp-cd2fp15c.xn--fsq.jp” in transit, but you never see the unintelligible latter one, only the former, rendered in its intended language.
That transparency, the fact that punycode doesn’t announce it’s being used, is the basis for the phishing attack. An attacker can use punycode to create URIs that look normal to the user but are actually totally different. Pedro Umbolino over at Hackaday showed how this is possible in a post that certainly had me fooled.
Several browsers, including Firefox and Chrome, rendered the link in the first paragraph as what appeared to be apple.com, both inline and in the link preview. But when you click, it goes somewhere totally different.
In fact, as you find out later in the paragraph or if you change the settings in your browser, the letters in apple.com are actually created by the punycode xn--80ak6aa92e.
That forms something that looks like apple.com the way browsers render the text, but if you look at the URI in certain monotype fonts, it’s clear there’s a classic capital-“I”/lowercase-“L” switcheroo, with a Cyrillic twist:
Clever, right? A hacker could use this in an email or another link to lure even a normally attentive user who inspects suspicious links. As Umbolino shows (and this is a separate issue) the site you’re tricked into visiting may even imitate the real site’s HTTPS status, giving you that reassuring green lock next to the URI.
Yes Devin, but how do I fix it
Firefox and Chrome were the only browsers affected, really — it just had to to with the defaults they had for displaying punycode stuff. But Chrome 58 (just out) makes those addresses show the full punycode URI in the link preview, and Firefox has a setting that changes it. Just go to about:config, put “punycode” in the search there, and toggle the setting that comes up to “true.” You’ll see the xn-- punycode links from now on — but remember, most are legit! Just be aware of when you should expect one and when it could be shady.
You learn something new every day! Well, sometimes.
Advertisement		





Utah has a strong history in the tech industry — Omniture, WordPerfect and Landesk all started there, Pixar co-founder Ed Catmul and Atari co-founder Nolan Bushnell both graduated from the University of Utah and several colleges and universities in the area churn out advanced engineering degrees in the hundreds every year.
It’s also starting to become a place known for growing profitable unicorns, including Qualtrics, now worth $2.4 billion; Domo, valued at $2 billion; InsideSales, worth $1.5 billion; and developer training platform Pluralsight, now worth $1.14 billion and listed as one to watch for going public this year.
I sat down with Pluralsight founder Aaron Skonnard to discuss the tech landscape and where he wants to take the company next:

Pluralsight started in 2004 as a training platform for developers, but really started to take off in 2008 when it went into online education. Founder Aaron Skonnard tells me it has nearly doubled every year since, and now teaches more than 6,000 courses on software development and technology skills in more than 150 countries via carefully vetted instructors.
Pluralsight is part of a crop of startups like Lynda or Udemy helping to fulfill a needed skills gap in the marketplace as technology is constantly changing and improving and, as Skonnard points out, there is a serious shortage of people with the technological knowledge needed to keep up. The company teaches skills such as Java, cloud computing and machine learning on a global basis to several Fortune 500 companies and provides not only skills training but adaptive assessments and live online mentoring.

Pluralsight is another one of those Utah enterprise startups that bootstrapped and gained profitability before it started attracting Silicon Valley money nearly a decade after it launched. The startup has so far pulled in $192 million in funding and has snatched up a half dozen startups since 2013.
It’s not clear if Skonnard will take his company public this year, but it looks like it could be ready: It’s profitable and continues to grow. It also seems like a pretty good time to be involved in the online e-learning industry as the market is expected to grow 11 percent and be worth $31 billion by 2020.
Check out the latest interview with Skonnard for more in the video above.



pluralsight-sign2




pluralsight-office4
Employee working under a giant Pikachu at Pluralsight HQ in Farmington, Utah



ps-office6
Pluralsight HQ



ps-office5-edit
Pluralsight HQ



pluralsight-CEO-sign2
Pluralsight founder Aaron Skonnard



pluralsight-ceo-headshot
Pluralsight founder Aaron Skonnard



pluralsight_wall_graphic
Pluralsight HQ



pluralsight-utah
Pluralsight HQ



pluralsight-building
Pluralsight HQ



 View Slideshow


Previous
Next
Exit



Featured Image: Felicia Williams



Snap has finally gone public and it’s worth more than $20 billion. Facebook continues to be an advertising behemoth. Google still owns the search ad universe. So is there room for another — specifically, Pinterest?
We’ll find out in May some of the tricks Pinterest has up its sleeves. Today, we’re excited to announce that Pinterest president Tim Kendall will sit down for a conversation at TechCrunch Disrupt NY 2017.
With 175 million monthly active users, Pinterest is still one of the larger social networks on the internet. It might not be Snap, and it’s not close to Facebook’s volume when it comes to humans connected to the internet, but that’s still a massive user base that can generate a big business if monetized properly.
Pinterest has a unique advertising proposition that’s in many ways different from Snap, Google or Facebook. While Google does a good job of snagging a consumer’s attention in the moment that they’re going to buy a product, and Facebook and Snap are able to keep people aware of brands, Pinterest’s pitch is that it can do all of the above. Users come to Pinterest and wander around, giving brands an opportunity to find new potential consumers. They’ll save products to their boards, and with the right nudge, they’ll eventually get to the point that they’ll make a purchase.
That also goes beyond just products. There are ways to get apps in front of users and use that to get additional installs. Its visual search tools extend even to video, helping users find products (or even apps) that they might not have realized they want to buy. All of this gives Pinterest a unique proposition, and Kendall is going to be responsible for a big part of convincing advertisers that it’s a good way to drive people to that purchase button.
Previously heading up monetization at Facebook for more than four years, Kendall joined Pinterest in early 2012 and has been with the company for now more than five years. Since joining he’s risen to become president and work to steward the company toward being a sustainable business — and, hopefully, another option for advertisers. Be sure to join us in May to hear more from Kendall about Pinterest’s advertising future.
Kendall joins an incredible agenda for the conference, which you can check out here.
You can pick up tickets to Disrupt NY 2017 right here.
Sponsors make TechCrunch events possible. If you’re interested in learning more about sponsorships with TechCrunch, shoot an email to sponsors@techcrunch.com.
Uber has been tinkering with the idea of vertical take-off and landing (VTOL) craft for a while now, beginning with the release of a white paper late last year detailing what steps it thinks are required to help it get it get to the point where it might make sense to actually field an on-demand airborne ride hailing service. It announced that it would host an industry summit of people working on making VTOLs affordable and available at the time, and the first iteration of that conference is happening next week, with a live stream available for remote viewing.
Uber doesn’t really want to build flying cars, but it wants to take advantage of them to expand its service offerings and potentially do a bit more to solve the growing problem on city traffic congestion. The Elevate Summit, which it’s hosting in Dallas, Texas April 25 through the 27, is designed to bring together some of the people who might actually be building the cars, and the technology infrastructure required to make it happen.
The website for Uber’s Elevate Summit details some of what’s going to happen at the meeting of minds, which will feature participants from the manufacturing, regulatory, aviation and venture capital industries. Uber has said it wants to help encourage all aspects of the development of affordable, practical, electric VTOL transportation options for use within dense urban environments, so it makes sense to throw all the ingredients in the pot and hope that the result is a delicious flying car stew.
Some of the people speaking during the event include Uber’s own CPO Jeff Holden, along with Ross Perot Jr., Embraer CEO Paulo de Cesar de Souza e Silva, Lilium co-founder and CEO Daniel Wiegand, Airbus A3’s head of autonomous systems Arne Soschek, the governor of Wyoming and many more. There’s a lot of VIP speaker slots Uber is still keeping under wraps, too, so I have to expect a fair number of celebrity astronauts or something.
Uber has a lot going on at the moment in terms of corporate culture crises, legal trouble and executive scrutiny, but it’s still going forward with an effort to kickstart progress on flying cars. Maybe this is how the people putting together those Popular Science covers in the 50s and 60s felt, but I’m increasingly feeling optimism around the possibility of actually experiencing flying cars within my lifetime.
Conventional wisdom has kind of assumed that old fogies are afraid of self-driving cars and suffer from crippling range anxiety when it comes to EVs. Those youngsters, though, are all about autonomous electric cars — computers on wheels, if you will, that chauffeur them about town. But a new massive survey from Driving-Tests.org (DTO, for short) says otherwise. Not about the fogies — they’re still afraid of self-driving electric cars — but about the kids. They don’t really like them either.
DTO surveyed 158,000 visitors to its site in early April 2017 and asked them just four questions about electric cars, autonomous vehicles, and brands that are innovating in these spaces. DTO, by the way, is a site that lets people study for their driving test online, so many of the respondents don’t have a car yet themselves. (But some do, because they’re adding a motorcycle endorsement to an existing license.) Not surprisingly, then, the majority of answers came from millennials between the ages of 13 and 35.
So what did they find? Well, the first question was the most telling: Would you choose an electric vehicle over a comparably priced gas-powered vehicle? The answer for nearly 70% was nope. In the next question, about 30% said they’d be very or extremely concerned about riding in a self-driving car. People were also unsure about whether the benefits of self-driving cars would outweigh the costs and risks of the technology.
But they were sure about which manufacturer would sell the most EVs and autonomous cars in the next 10 years: Tesla. There were a couple of interesting things about this answer, though. First, the DTO survey says, “the high expectations for Tesla were limited to the large teenage cohort (an estimated 43.5% of DTO’s visitors). … Older age groups tended to favor Toyota (which is why Toyota was in second place.)” The other interesting thing was that respondents who said yes to question 1, that they would buy an EV over a gas-powered car, were more likely to pick Tesla as the brand to watch.
This survey happened to begin collecting answers the day after Tesla’s stock surpassed Ford’s. But, as has been noted, Tesla is in debt and shipped fewer than 100,000 cars in 2016. Ford, on the other hand, shipped 236,000 vehicles in March 2017 alone.
DTO did acknowledge in its conclusion that other polls have found a higher percentage of millennials to be interested in EVs. The study’s authors speculate that the difference is the fact that their website caters to cautious student drivers who are literally doing things by the book at this point in their driving experience. The respondents may have brought that mindset to the survey and answered more conservatively than they otherwise would.

Featured Image: Driving-Tests.org
Lyft’s head of engineering Jill Wetzler has penned a heartfelt letter to her fellow teammates asking them to chat openly with her about any issues they may be facing in the workplace.
The letter, sent on anonymous workplace app Blind and obtained by TechCrunch, pleads with employees to reach out to her. Here’s what she wrote:

To those who are either posting or lurking here: I want to offer up my availability to chat freely.
I struggle with my own work/life balance, anxiety around compensation, and the conflict between feeling grateful for the many privileges I have while still wanting better from my peers, my company, and my industry. I often feel really energized by our company mission and the amazing people here, and yet like most women my age I daydream about when I’ll leave tech.
One thing I want for Lyft (and any company I work for) is for us to iterate and improve. I want transparency in communication, both from our leadership and from our individual contributors. This is not to say I begrudge anyone posting on Blind. But I also want you to know I’ll talk to anyone about anything without judgment. I can’t always promise change but can at least ensure you’re heard.
If you want to take me up on it, send me an email or Slack DM and we’ll grab 30 minutes. I can promise you whatever level of anonymity you want, as long as it’s not something I’m required to escalate (harassment, discrimination, etc.). If I ever had to escalate something, I’d let you know ahead of time and help you through it.
I’m sincere in this. I come to work every day to be around great people. Let’s talk action and make Lyft better together. Let’s connect with each other.

Lyft is seen as the softer, fuzzier counter to its ride-hailing rival Uber and it doesn’t take much to link this approach with the experience of former Uber engineer Susan Fowler Rigetti, who famously posted about being propositioned and discriminated against while working at the company.
There have been some serious questions raised about Uber’s internal culture lately, particularly in this instance in the way it has treated women, and perhaps Lyft’s head of engineering hoped to head off the same sorts of issues. Tech, in general, has been notoriously bad at the way it treats and promotes women. Though Wetzler did not want to comment for this story, it’s clear that she has at least been concerned with being proactive about avoiding a culture of misogyny and fear.
“Lyft’s core values are ‘be yourself’ and ‘uplift others’ — that’s exactly what Jill was embodying when she took the initiative to write this post,” a Lyft spokesperson said. “Jill was doing what any good leader does: reaching out and letting people know she is there for them. We are proud this kind of advocacy and leadership exists within Lyft.”
We should note Blind has also been an instrumental tool within both companies for employees to communicate issues on an anonymous basis. Though Uber banned using the app while on company grounds earlier this year, an Uber spokesperson says employees have access to it again, so perhaps it is also rethinking how it listens in when issues arise.
The Federal Trade Commission has put dozens of so-called influencers on notice for failing to adequately document the fact that their Instagram and such like posts are in fact thinly veiled ads for which the posters are being generously compensated.
The agency sent out more than 90 letters to “celebrities, athletes, and other influencers” reminding them to “clearly and conspicuously disclose” that posts are sponsored, or that a company otherwise supports them.

Related Articles
And no cute stuff either, the FTC says in the letters.
For example, no putting your sponsor message below the “more” button, where no one will see it. And no disguising it ambiguously as “thanks Nike,” as if Nike was just cool enough to let you use their corporate getaway beach house because you asked nicely. And! No burying the disclosure in obscure terminology, like #sp or #partner, deep in the sea of hashtags.
Instagram should probably just add a special filter just for sponsored posts at this point.
At my birthday party last week, my friend Ebby walked over and asked a group of us “What’s this Gather app all about?”
I instantly felt a bit insecure. Of that particular group of friends, I should have been the one with a ready answer. I’m supposed to know about hot new apps. But Gather was a mystery.
The next morning, hungover and recovering from the post-birthday blues, I received a text message: “You have been invited to Gather with 6 of your friends on Gather – DOWNLOAD LINK.”
The text was sent from a five-digit number, meaning it came from a server instead of a real human’s phone number. But just the night before I had heard a rather reliable friend mention the app, which piqued my curiosity. I downloaded the app but stopped short of creating a username and password. I had already, at least in that moment, lost interest.
Skip forward to that afternoon. My lovely girlfriend walked in the front door and asked if I downloaded something called Gather. She’s smarter than me, so she looked up app reviews before she thoughtlessly followed the instructions of the invite text.
“Yeah, you spammed everyone,” she said. “Look at this review.”
Let’s do that.
Deep in the weeds of the App Store reviews — most of which are glowing and composed of near-perfect grammar and spelling (red flag!) — there is a one-star review with the title “DO NOT GET!!! ITS JUST SPAM”
This app is seemingly a wonderful idea, and looks well made. Despite this, it has a major inconvenience due to the fact that it SENDS A MESSAGE TO ALL OF YOUR CONTACTS ONCE YOU MAKE AN ACCOUNT. This is not only embarrassing to the person supposedly sending the message but unprofessional of the app. It is convenient to be able to send invites to who you want, but that should be OPTIONAL. I received one of these texts saying multiple of my friends invited me to join the app. I downloaded simply to see what it was, but later found that more people from my contacts had been sent the same message without me authorizing it. It was embarrassing to me and it is a terrible awy to try and expand an app such as this. I do not recommend even downloading this app, and I especially do not recommend creating an account.
^^^^!!!
Now, I can’t verify the authenticity or inauthenticity of all those four-star and five-star reviews praising Gather’s ease of on-boarding and how insightful it is to have an app that lets you meet up with friends (as though the same app idea hasn’t launched and failed throughout the years, over and over). I can, however, verify that the review above is pretty damn accurate.
In fact, you don’t even have to create an account with Gather to trigger the SMS spam-fest that will soon land in your friends’ (and family’s and colleagues’) inboxes.
A little more investigating yields this Reddit thread from a poor guy who had the same exact experience as I did. And then there’s this website, with a couple of reviews warning of the spam attack.
And let’s not forget Twitter:


Ok. Whoever keeps joining this Gather app and sending me crap needs to stop. This is getting out of hand.
— Morgan T. Sprouse (@atsprouse) April 19, 2017





Idk what this Gather app is. But it seems rather sketch.
— Grace Smith (@Grace_Smith92) April 19, 2017





Disengenous buisness practice: mobile app Gather sourcing your contacts & texting all on your behalf to download their garbage application
— Jigesh Parekh (@jetlifejig) April 19, 2017



Now, Gather appears to be a real app. It has a cute little website, and the app (or, at least, the on-boarding screen) looks well-designed. The support email address listed on the website also works, as I received a response from the support team when I originally reached out: “We’re happy to talk about questions or concerns.” So I asked to speak to the CEO/founder about the spam marketing. I’m still waiting to hear back.
I could check out the app and tell you what it does, and if it might somehow overcome the many obstacles plaguing social planning apps and totally change the world. But I won’t.
Gather does not pass go. It will not collect $200.
It’s one thing to send a pop-up within the app asking to “Invite your friends.” It’s also mildly tolerable to send the App Store pop-up asking for access to Contacts, which then auto-texts your contacts with an invite to the app, though that’s not the best way to build good will with users.
It’s an entirely different thing to mine a user’s contacts the moment they download the app (before they’ve created an account or granted any permissions) and spam everyone that they know from a five-digit server number.
It’s not 2009.
I’ve considered not saying a word about Gather on TechCrunch, so as to not publicize a bad actor. But given the fact that this shit is spreading like wildfire, I’m officially warning you.
There is nothing quite like Seattle in June. Everything is green, the sun shines, and the air is crisp. And, of course, TechCrunch heads into town for the annual TC Meetup + Pitch-off.
Just as we have the past couple of years, TechCrunch is hitting up Seattle to hear about the latest and greatest startups the Emerald City has to offer.
For those of you who don’t know what I’m talking about, allow me to explain:
The TC Meetup + Pitch-off is an event where TC brings folks together from the local tech community to network and to enjoy the world-renowned TC Pitch-off, where ten startups compete for a table in Startup Alley at TC Disrupt an endless glory.
Each startup is given exactly sixty seconds to pitch their product to a panel of expert judges, including TC Editors and local VCs, who then conduct a short Q&A session with the founders.
Applications to the pitch-off are open now. Apply here!
First place gets a table in the Startup Alley at TC Disrupt. Second place gets two tickets to the conference, and the Audience Choice winner gets one ticket to the big show.
After the pitch-off, there will be ample time to network with the local tech community and share your story with the TC staff.
You can pick up tickets to the event right here.
The Marine Corps has taken another step to crack down on the nude photo sharing scandal that broke open in the Marines United Facebook Group. Following changes to the rules governing behavior on social media platforms, new Navy regulations outlaw sharing nude photos without permission outright.
The new amendment to Naval regulations (which also apply to Marines) reads as follows:
Article 1168 of reference (a) is added to read as follows:
a. 1168. Nonconsensual distribution or broadcasting of an image
(1) The wrongful distribution or broadcasting of an intimate image is
prohibited.
(2) The distribution or broadcasting is wrongful if the person making
the distribution or broadcast does so without legal justification or excuse,
knows or reasonably should know that the depicted person did not consent to
the disclosure, and the intimate image is distributed or broadcast:
(a) With the intent to realize personal gain;
(b) With the intent to humiliate, harm, harass, intimidate,
threaten, or coerce the depicted person; or
(c) With reckless disregard as to whether the depicted person
would be humiliated, harmed, intimidated, threatened, or coerced.
The amendment defines an “intimate image” as a photo in which an individual can be identified depicting sexually explicit conduct or an individual’s “private areas” if the person shown in the image had a reasonable expectation of privacy.
The change is described as an interim measure that is already in effect and will be incorporated in the next physical printing of the U.S. Navy regulations. Earlier this month, the Naval Criminal Investigative Service (NCIS) announced that 14 active duty Marines and one active duty sailor are under criminal investigation for their involvement in the nude photo sharing ring.

Featured Image: Rooster7144/iStock/Getty Images
Conrad Egusa
Contributor



Conrad Egusa is the CEO of Publicize.

			More posts by this contributor:			
Brazil: A look into Latin America’s largest startup ecosystem
A Look into Chile’s innovative startup government






Victoria Stunt
Contributor



Victoria Stunt is a journalist based in Colombia and is a writer at Publicize.

			More posts by this contributor:			
Austria: The up-and-coming early-stage investment capital of Europe



They say that nice guys finish last — and Canada, with its reputation for polite citizenry and its charming prime minister, is used to being overlooked. Sure, Canada may tower over the United States in physical size, but many countries of similar stature — G7 nations, for example — dismiss the Great White North as nothing more than America’s top hat.

This is a mistake.
Canada, with nine percent of the world’s forests, is a land of plenty. As well as an enviable array of natural resources, Canada also boasts incredible support for entrepreneurs, both homegrown and international. Many household names, such as Slack, Hootsuite and Shopify — which may be mistakenly considered as U.S. products — hail from north of the border. This proves Canada is capable of delivering on startup success.
And it’s no surprise that startups excel in the country. Sure, there is less access to VC funding and the persuasive call of Canada’s southern neighbor, but the Canadian government is working hard to build and keep successful startup ecosystems. There is a huge selection of government aid available to small businesses, some of which includes grants that don’t have to be paid back.
Alongside substantial government backing is Canada’s array of world-class universities. The University of Waterloo — increasingly known as Canada’s answer to MIT — sees incredible numbers go to Silicon Valley every year, while others all over the country produce thousands of talented grads.
While eventually losing out to Colombia, Canada was shortlisted as country of the year by The Economist in 2016. The United States’ northern neighbor boasts world-class universities and resources to develop talent and, currently, the Canadian dollar is 0.75 cents to the American dollar. This means a highly educated workforce is available for less capital for entrepreneurs all over the world who are ready and willing to make the leap to Canada.
Origin story
Canada has a proud history of technological innovation. Communications company Nortel pushed expansion in the 1970s, bringing talented telecom engineers. In 1983, after a wave of deregulation, Nortel gave way to Bell Canada Enterprise (BCE), which signaled an era of telecom preeminence.
If that weren’t enough, a year later, in 1984, Research in Motion (RIM), which today is better known as BlackBerry, was founded. While the sun may have set on BlackBerry, the impact of their phones — and the eponymous messaging service — has left a lasting impact on cellular phone technology.
Fast-forward to the nineties and the Canadian government expanded its Scientific Research and Experimental Development (SR&ED) tax incentive program to allow for assistance to companies performing research and development. The legacy of this decision is clearly illustrated by Canada’s fervent support of startups in recent times.
Since the turn of the new millennium, Canada has been determined to churn out initiative after initiative to support new business. The opening of the MaRS Discovery District in 2005 — a 1.5-million-square-foot complex located in Toronto’s downtown — provided entrepreneurs with skills via its venture program, and included a network of 1,000 high-potential-growth startups that collectively generated more than $1.3 billion in revenue from 2008-2015. Just two years later, Maple Leaf Angels set up shop in the city center, with a focus on investing in early-stage companies.
The MaRS Discovery District in Toronto. Photo courtesy of the MaRS Discovery District.
Universities across the country have worked to provide space and support for startups to grow, too. In 2010, Ryerson University founded the Digital Media Zone (DMZ), a combined incubator/accelerator program that has assisted more than 130 companies.
In later years, a wave of funding opportunities and globally recognized accelerator programs took root across Canada. The Ontario Municipal Employees Retirement System (OMERS) deployed $180 million in early-stage startups between 2011 and 2014, while BDC Capital launched its IT Venture Fund II, a fund worth $150 million. 2014 saw U.S. heavyweight The Founder Institute, founded by Adeo Ressi and Jonathan Greechen, open its first Canadian branch. In March 2016, 500 Startups announced its $30 million Canada fund.
With such a strong foundation of startup initiatives and technology success, it’s no wonder that Canada is in such a strong position now.
Toronto-Waterloo corridor
Despite a population of just 2.8 million, Toronto has been named the most diverse city in the world. About half of its residents were born outside of Canada, and the city is home to 230 nationalities. As Canada’s largest city, it’s quite naturally the country’s commercial, industrial and financial center. It stands to reason that this would make Toronto stand out as the country’s biggest tech hub, too.
As an example, Toronto-born FreshBooks, an accounting platform for small businesses, has more than 10 million users, and a 43,000-square-foot office in the city, which houses 245 employees. Self-publishing company Wattpad, which lets writers share their work on the platform, has 45 million users worldwide. In November, the company signed a deal with Universal Cable Productions — the creator of Suits — with the idea to sift through the stories online to turn the popular ones into TV shows. On-demand platform AskforTask has more than 150,000 taskers, and has doubled its business each year since launching in 2012.
The Toronto and Waterloo corridor is sometimes billed — unsurprisingly — as the Silicon Valley of the North.
The aforementioned MaRS Discovery District is a tower of strength in the city’s startup community, too. The four-story brick building takes up almost one city block, and is one of the world’s largest innovation hubs, offering funding, mentorship and facilities to the city’s creators. Ryerson University’s Digital Media Zone incubator is also a resource for early-stage companies worldwide, as are a range of University of Toronto incubators and accelerators. BetaKit, a news publication led by Douglas Soltys that documents Canadian startup news, is also based in the city.
As Canada’s financial hub, Toronto is home to much of the country’s investment. OMERS Ventures has had arguably one of the biggest impacts on the Canadian startup scene. The VC firm backs startups directly, including Shopify, of which the firm owns six percent. Canada also boasts the Venture Capital Action Plan (VCAP) to encourage more Canadian private investors. For every $2 in funding, the government gives another $1 to early-stage companies.
Other financial support includes 500 Startup’s Canadian fund; the Scientific Research and Experimental Development Program, a federal tax incentive for companies conducting research; and the Industrial Research Assistance Program, which provides entrepreneurs with funding and advisory services to help them develop technology.
500 Startups partner Sanjay Singhal. Photo courtesy of the 500 Startups team.

Yet despite this, Toronto is yet to birth a homegrown unicorn. While there are up to 4,100 active startups in the city, none are valued at over a billion dollars, and aren’t necessarily household names outside the tech scene.
Just 60 miles west of Toronto, however, is Waterloo, a small city of 134,000 residents, which holds much of Canada’s tech talent. Like San Francisco and the Bay Area, Toronto and Waterloo form a corridor of startup innovation between them. Yet, while Toronto is yet to see any businesses hit that magical unicorn status, Waterloo has.
Waterloo is the home of telecoms giant BlackBerry, as well as newer companies that include video optimization platform Vidyard — which last year raised $35 million in Series C funding — and Bridgit, a communication app for construction teams that won Google Demo Day: Women’s Edition in 2015. Similarly, Shopify, considered one of the country’s most successful startups, has an office in Waterloo (as well as offices in Toronto, Ottawa, Montreal and San Francisco).
Waterloo boasts the MIT of Canada — the University of Waterloo — which sends talent to startup ecosystems. In fact, every year, recruiters from Apple, Google and Facebook, among others, flock to this Canadian tech hub to onboard new employees; graduates of the University of Waterloo are the second-most-frequently hired in Silicon Valley after students from University of California, Berkeley. The university’s students are famously inventive, too. In 2009, Kik Interactive was founded by a group of students who wished to create new technologies for use on mobile smartphones; it has gone on to become an incredible success.
The Toronto and Waterloo corridor is sometimes billed — unsurprisingly — as the Silicon Valley of the North. Toronto mayor John Tory has said that the Toronto-Waterloo corridor has all the elements for huge success, much of which comes from the quality of universities in the area. The University of Waterloo ranks 24th in the world for computer science and information systems, and the University of Toronto — one of Canada’s most prestigious schools — ranks 16th.
While many tech giants already have a presence in these cities, there are efforts underway to make Toronto-Waterloo rise to the top of the world’s tech scene. Following the release of the City of Toronto’s Startup Eco-system Strategy in 2015, the city launched StartUp HERE Toronto, a website built and managed by startup influencers to feature startup news and events and put a spotlight on entrepreneurs in the Toronto-Waterloo corridor.
Other notable leaders in the region include Sanjay Singhal, partner at 500 Startups; David Crow, advisor at Venture for Canada; Mike McDerment, CEO at FreshBooks; David Ossip, CEO at Ceridian; Matt Golden, founder at Golden Venture Partners; Marcus Daniels, CEO at HIGHLINE vc; Mark Organ, CEO at Influitive; Salim Teja, executive vice president of Ventures at MaRS Discovery District; Lauren Robinson, COO at Highline BETA; Neha Khera, partner at 500 Startups; Heather Payne, CEO at HackerYou; Saadia Muzaffar, founder at TechGirls Canada; Eva Lau, co-founder at Two Small Fish Ventures; Carol Leaman, CEO at Axonify; and Janet Bannister, general partner at Real Ventures.
Vancouver
Vancouver is found in British Columbia (BC), amongst the mountains on Canada’s west coast. With a population that just exceeds 600,000, the city’s easygoing vibe makes it one of the most attractive places in Canada. In fact, Vancouver is rated the fifth city for quality of life in the world by Mercer, the only North American city to make the list.
Vancouver residents aren’t shy about being in the greenest, and arguably most beautiful, city in Canada. They’re also getting pretty good at representing their rising tech scene. The entire province of BC now boasts more than 100,000 people working in the tech sector. Employment in the industry rose 2.9 percent in 2016, compared to the national tech sector’s growth at 1.1 percent. Tech in BC employs more people than the mining, oil, gas and forestry industries — combined.
Boasting mountains and ocean just like Silicon Valley, Vancouver also has seen some of the biggest Canadian acquisitions. Vancouver’s PlentyofFish, the popular dating website, was purchased by Match Group in 2015 for US$575 million, for example. Even more, Vancouver is home to OMER Ventures-backed Hootsuite — which is valued at US$1 billion — as well as everyone’s favorite, Slack. Although Slack the company is technically based in San Francisco, CEO Stewart Butterfield also works out of Vancouver, or Vancity as it’s often called.
In the hopes of fostering more unicorns like Slack and PlentyofFish and fastening BC’s startup scene on the world map, the provincial government set up a $100 million fund for early-stage funding in December 2015. Since then, there have been about 14,000 new tech jobs in the province. Also located in Vancouver is the BC Tech Association. Founded in 1993, BC Tech provides growth, talent and advocacy programs to tech companies in the province.
Canada provides affordable development talent, and thousands of people graduate each year from some of the best universities in the world.
Being on the west coast, and therefore the same coast as startup hubs in San Francisco, has its advantages. Startups in the city attract a lot of outside attention, including from Silicon Valley stalwarts. In February of this year, Vancouver-based TIO Networks, which offers online and mobile solutions for bill payments, and processed more than US$7 billion in fiscal 2016, was acquired by PayPal for $304 million. Similarly, Kickstarter opened its first office outside of the United States in the same month, after acquiring Vancouver-based startup Huzza.
Traction Conference, hosted by Launch Academy and Boast Capital, is one of a number of popular conferences in the city, and, according to BetaKit’s Jessica Galang, puts an emphasis on helping startups learn actionable ways to accelerate their businesses. Cube Business Media, led by Mark Stephenson and Dave Tyldesley, is another organization hosting events throughout the city.
Like Toronto and Waterloo, Vancouver boasts world-class universities, such as the University of British Columbia and Simon Fraser University. SFU Innovates is a program from the latter, which seeks to build and support innovation and entrepreneurship across the university. It has so far contributed $1.3 billion to BC’s economy. Similarly, UBC’s Startup Weekend event inspires would-be founders to get set up within 54 hours in a do-or-die race to success.
Said investor Ali Saheli of 7 Gate Ventures over the phone, “Vancouver allows founders to remove all of the noise that you would get from the Valley and to focus on building products. In the past couple of years the number of early-stage startups has significantly grown thanks to government grants and communities such as Launch Academy and The Next Big Thing.”
Additional notable leaders in the city include investors Boris Wertz and Markus Frind, entrepreneurs Stephen Ufford of Trulioo, Ali Davar of Qudos, Ray Walia of Launch Academy, Carol Newell, founding investor and principal at Renewal Partners and Shahrzad Rafati, CEO at BroadbandTV. Additional startups and events are well-documented by Alex Chuang of Launch Academy on TechCrunch here.
Montreal
One of North America’s most European cities, Montreal, Quebec, is also the second-largest primarily French-speaking city in the world, just after Paris. The city has an undeniable allure — with tons of public art displays, miles of bike lanes and world-class festivals, such as Festival International de Jazz de Montreal, as well as Startupfest.
Although Montreal may host a less mature ecosystem when compared to other cities, it boasts world-class universities, including McGill University and Université de Montréal, and a host of government programs. Additionally, Montreal is home to almost 50 percent of all Startup Weekends in Canada, training close to 1,000 entrepreneurs a year.
“Local government provides the best programs in North America with millions of dollars in grants, loans, innovation tax credits, and even government backed incubators without any cost to the entrepreneurs,” said Montreal Founder Institute Director Sergio Escobar over the phone. “As any emerging ecosystem, Montreal has many challenges. Among them, Montreal counts very few seed-stage investors and no pre-seed ones. Many times, seed investors tend to function closer to Series A investors with non-friendly term sheets and low valuations.”
The Founder Institute team in Montreal. Photo by Charles Laberge, Collaboration Speciale, La Presse, 3 September 2015.
Startupfest is a three-day festival that takes place in a relaxed “Tent Village.” It features keynote speakers, how-to sessions and $200,000 investment opportunities from festival angel investors. Even more, the festival features a panel of infamously tough Grandmothers, to whom entrepreneurs pitch their startups.
While the city is considered the cultural capital of Canada, Montreal is also an artificial intelligence stronghold. Just in January, Microsoft announced it would double its investment to AI research and development in the city. Over a five-year period, the tech giant will gift $6 million to the Université de Montréal, and $1 million to McGill University.
A week before this announcement, Microsoft acquired natural language processing and AI startup Maluuba, which was founded by Waterloo graduates Kaheer Suleman and Sam Pasupalak in 2011. In February 2016, it also bought Groove, a Montreal music app that uses machine learning to come up with personalized playlists.
In terms of resources for entrepreneurs in Montreal, FounderFuel is an accelerator funded by Real Ventures, a Canadian VC firm. Entrepreneurs Anonymous is a peer-to-peer support group, which takes place at a different Montreal bar each month.
Notable leaders in Montreal’s ecosystem include John Stokes, general partner at Real Ventures; Sergio Escobar, managing director at the Founder Institute Montreal; LP Maurice, co-founder and CEO at Busbud; Chris Arsenault, partner at iNovia Capital; Mike Cegelski and Francois Gilbert of Anges Québec; Alan MacIntosh, partner at Real Ventures; Daniel Robichaud, CEO at PasswordBox; Helge Seetzen of TandemLaunch; Béatrice Couture, general manager at InnoCité; and Emma Williams, director at Maison Notman House.
Ottawa and others
The three most popular cities in Canada do not exclusively dominate the startup ecosystem. There are flickers — and sometimes flares — of startup activity that certainly have the potential to grow larger in the coming years.
Canada’s capital, Ottawa, sits on the border with Quebec, and is just about two hours from the city of Montreal. Parliament Hill is the city’s main attraction — and depending on the season, visitors and residents alike skate on the Rideau Canal, which winds for five miles throughout the city.
Ottawa is home to Canadian unicorn Shopify, and has been on a kick to make itself the best city in Canada to start a business. Ottawa-based SaaS accelerator L-SPARK, which is directed by Leo Lax, supports talent in the city and also hosts SAAS North, a conference that helps Canadian companies network and promotes Ottawa as the country’s capital of SAAS.
“In Ottawa there is a wealth of experienced C-level executives from the telecommunications industry, and as that industry has slowed down it has created an enormous talent pool for startups,” said Leo Lax over the phone. “We can shortcut the challenges of building a SAAS company through the experience of the people here.” Further support in Ottawa includes Invest Ottawa, a group that delivers economic development programs to give entrepreneurs a head start in Canada’s capital.
The SAAS North team in Ottawa. Photo by Velour Productions.
Other notable leaders in Ottawa’s ecosystem include Tobi Lutke, CEO of Shopify; Allan Wille, CEO at Klipfolio, Terry Matthews, chairman of Wesley Clover International; Jamie Petten, co-founder of SAAS North; Craig Fitzpatrick, CEO of PageCloud; Adrian Salamunovic and Nazim Ahmed of Canvas Pop; investor Aydin Mirzaee; Victoria Lennox, co-founder and CEO of Startup Canada; and Haidee Thanda, founder of Hacking Health Ottawa.
Another city to consider is Edmonton, which is also beginning to carve out a place on the map in the country’s startup scene. The city’s hubs include incubator TEC Edmonton — a joint University of Alberta and City of Edmonton initiative ranked the world’s 16th best business incubator – Business Link, as well as Startup Edmonton. For the past two years Startup Edmonton has hosted Edmonton Startup Week, which features more than 20 community events for entrepreneurs across the city.
Lastly, Labrador and Newfoundland, which are the most eastern point of North America, are beginning to develop grassroots startup communities. This includes StartupNL, a community of entrepreneurs led by Will Gough, Jason Janes and Roger Power that hosts events and programs. In 2014, the government of Newfoundland and Labrador unveiled a $15 million fund to invest in local entrepreneurs and startups, and in 2016, three St. John’s, Newfoundland startups announced funding of more than $2 million, including game developer Clockwork Fox Studios, marketing collaboration platform HeyOrca and software provider Sentinel Alert.
Conclusion
Canada’s ecosystem is still in its early stages. Companies tend to exit too early rather than focusing on growing something sustainable. It often feels like Canadians bow out where Americans — for whatever reason — might not. Similarly, sub-zero temperatures scare people to warmer areas, leading to a brain drain and serious demand for startup-orientated marketers. Many current marketing staff are not au fait with startup performance, due to their backgrounds in more traditional industries.
Canadian investors have historically looked at minerals and mining companies, which attract much of the capital. People tend to invest in other industries rather than startups because of their prior experience.

Related Articles

On the other hand, Canada provides affordable development talent, and thousands of people graduate each year from some of the best universities in the world. Founders are now beginning to enter the startup market again after their first exits, and there is a growing sense of community. In recent years there has been impressive growth in the number of people interested in startups. Government tax incentives reward companies for investing in research and development.
Then there is the Trump question. The new U.S. administration’s hard stance against immigrants can only play into Canada’s favor — with worldwide talent flocking to the Great White North, the opportunity is Canada’s to lose. Over the last five years, Canada has brought in more than 800,000 immigrants to fill holes in the jobs market. With an unfriendly U.S. approach to immigration, international talent could easily look to Canada instead of America as a land of hope and opportunity.
With 20 percent of Canada’s population already born elsewhere, the country now offers a startup visa to encourage international entrepreneurs to immigrate, with permanent residence status. This is crucial to Canada’s future success. By 2019, there will be 182,000 tech jobs up for grabs and nowhere near enough people to fill them. So while Canada’s tech scene is growing, there is yet more to come.
There are a lot of bright things to come for Canada’s startup scene.



Featured Image: Franco Folini/Flickr UNDER A CC BY-SA 2.0 LICENSE
Planet, the satellite imaging company that operate the largest commercial Earth imaging constellation in existence, is hosting a new data science competition on the Kaggle platform, with the specific aim of developing machine learning techniques around forestry research. Planet will open up access to thousands of image ‘chips,’ or blocks covering around 1 sauce kilometre, and will give away a total of $60,000 to participants who place in the top three when coming up with new methods for analyzing the data available in these images.
Planet notes that each minute, we lose a portion of forest the size of approximately 48 football fields, which is a heck of a lot of forest. The hope is that by releasing this data and hosting this competition, Planet can encourage academics and researchers worldwide to apply advances in machine learning that have been put to great use in efforts like facial recognition and detect, to this pressing ecological problem.
“We’re putting together this competition as a way to get people excited about the kinds of data that Planet provides,” explained Planet machine learning engineer Kat Scott in an interview. “Particularly when you’re analyzing imaging and that sort of thing, everyone works off the same sort of jpgs, but our satellites have these sort of superpowers. We get multiple bands at very high resolution, and deep bit depth, so we put together this interesting data set of all the interesting things that are gong on right now that we’d like to monitor. So things like deforestation, new agriculture, what we call artisanal mining which is basically illegal mining, and all these other effects.”
The goal is to see if competitors can come up with new ways to monitor these situations with machine learning tools created to make sense of the data. It’s a bit like finding a needle in a haystack, according to Scott, which is why the need exists for this machine learning-driven approach, taken on from multiple teams tackling the data from multiple angles.
“These mining areas might only be a couple of kilometers across, but we’re providing you with 37 million acres of imagery, so how do you sort that really quickly, and find those changes that occur over time,” Scott explained.
Competitors will submit their results using Kaggle, and Planet retains ownership rights to the IP, but the plan is to release all resulting data under a Creative Commons share-alike license to help continue to drive large improvements in machine learning in this area over time.
The first-place winner will receive $30,000 for their efforts, and the second and third-place teams will get $20,000 and $10,000 respectively. More information regarding the competition can be found at the Kaggle website.
With updates to its dynamic pricing system, Vacasa wants to offer smartly priced vacation rentals with an algorithm that takes everything and the kitchen sink into account. A self-described tortoise to Airbnb’s hare, the Portland-based tech-fueled property management company argues that automated pricing in the vacation rental market is still pretty crude compared to sophisticated systems in the hotel and airline industry.
Over the last eight years, Vacasa has grown from “one unit on the Oregon coast” to 5,000 units in 135 markets. The company has grown steadily and somewhat quietly from its Portland home base, expanding around the U.S., avoiding the regulatory battles that plague Airbnb and spreading out into Europe, South America and Central America. In 2016, Vacasa picked up $40 million in a Series A round led by Level Equity, the biggest round raised by a Portland company since Puppet Labs also closed a $40 million round in 2014.

Today, Vacasa has more than 1,000 employees and a prime Portland tech scene headquarters in the 40,000-square-foot office Simple moved out of in late 2016. Aside from engineers and analysts, Vacasa employs a full-time housekeeping staff to maintain consistency and cleanliness across the properties it manages, offering each of its employees a living wage.
Vacasa takes a lot of pride in its pricing algorithm, which it touts as far more dynamic than the pricing schemes used by other vacation rental sites. Initially developed in 2010 by Vacasa chief analytics officer Scott Breon, the company’s revamped Yield Management 2.0 system aims to make homeowners more than comparable systems, leveraging machine learning to leave less money on the table. The newest algorithm hums along in near real time, analyzing market rates, home size, location, luxury classification and local events to determine the dynamic prices that make it a compelling alternative for homeowners used to figuring that stuff out for themselves.
“We’re looking for the optimal rate as opposed to what others are pricing at,” Vacasa co-founder and CEO Eric Breon explains. “Even if the competition is priced at $100, it doesn’t mean that the optimal [rate] is $95. If the competition is at $100, we might want to be at $250.”
While that’s an obvious boon for homeowners, the dynamic pricing system can leave inventory open when other sites are booked full, which is a plus for guests who might book last-minute. With on-the-ground staff to maintain the homes it manages, Vacasa also can integrate qualitative local information in a way the competition often can’t. “We give our on-the-ground staff a series of tools to help them convey ‘hey there’s this event coming’ or ‘hey there’s this spike in demand coming,'” product lead Travis Green explains.
Most vacation rental systems price a listing by inching it a tiny bit lower than whatever else is available, which means that per-night prices are primarily decided in relation to one another rather than in relation to external factors. Of course, Vacasa’s own recipe isn’t the only show in town — third parties have been offering Airbnb pricing engines for at least a few years now. Airbnb also offers its own smart pricing system, which slides listings up and down within a set of parameters defined by the host. Vacasa’s combined pricing system combines with its core business as a full-service management company, offering a one-stop shop for prepping a space and pricing it to make the most money possible.
More of a tech-powered full-service management company than a platform, Vacasa books about half of its rentals through its own site, with the rest spread across listing sites like VRBO and booking.com. A small percentage even show up on Airbnb, though Vacasa dismisses it as an “insignificant channel” compared to its other listing sources.
For smaller property management companies and homeowners with vacation rental properties, Vacasa makes for an attractive partner. Its yield management math is a big part of that, and the company claims that in 2016 it offered homeowners 34 percent more in rental income than similar pricing systems by competitors.
For now, Vacasa intends to keep its formula in-house. “The core of our model is to keep our systems proprietary,” Breon said. He calls the new pricing system a requirement for Vacasa’s next stage of growth, noting the company’s ambitious but still slow-and-steady five-year goal “to be everywhere where people own second homes.”
Automated financial investment and advisory service provider Wealthfront is now getting into the lending business.
It seems like a good way for the company to juice revenues through interest payments rather than a fee-based model which would require going head-to-head with the growing number of asset managers that are now offering mixed automated investment and human advisory services.
Right now Wealthfront manages your first $10,000 for free and customers pay 0.25% on amounts above $10,000.
To be clear, Wealthfront isn’t offering an unsecured lending product. Basically folks are borrowing against the balance in their Wealthfront accounts.
As founder president and chief executive Andy Rachleff notes in a blog post about the new product:
Portfolio Line of Credit establishes a line of credit of up to 30% of your account value for Wealthfront clients with at least $100,000 invested in an individual or joint investment account. The best part? We do this instantly and without the hassle of paperwork — you’re already approved when you open your account! It takes 30 seconds to sign up, and in many cases you get your money in 24 hours.
The idea, according to a Wealthfront, is to get customers cash for buying a home, a car down payment, or paying for a wedding.
It’s the fourth feature that Wealthfront has launched since Rachleff returned to the company in November 2016… and those features have accompanied a groundswell of new customers coming on board.
The company has seen assets rise by $1.2 billion since January, according to a spokesperson.To put that in perspective, the company took two-and-a-half years to reach its first $1 billion.
Wealthfront now counts nearly $6 billion in assets under management from 120,000 customers.
Microsoft is launching IoT Central today, a new Internet of Things (IoT) service that gives enterprises a fully managed solution for setting up their IoT deployments without needing the in-house expertise necessary for deploying a cloud-based IoT solution from scratch. It’s basically IoT-as-a-Service.
In addition, the company is bringing its Azure Stream Analytics to edge devices, making it easier to provision new IoT devices, and it’s launching a completely new analytics service for time series data.
The two most important new services here are probably the launch of IoT Central service and the new Azure Time Series Insights tool. As Microsoft’s director of IoT Sam George told me, the idea here is to provide a number of new offerings that are complementary to the company’s existing Azure IoT Suite. While IoT gives many companies an opportunity to differentiate their services from competitors, it still takes a specialized set of skills to enable this. “While we find that IoT is a big differentiator, one of the things we’re finding in the broader market is that there is still a broad set of skill sets needed to implement IoT solutions,” George said.
IoT Central, then, is meant to simplify the deployment of these IoT solutions. “Customers here don’t need any cloud solutions expertise,” said George. Instead. IoT Central is fully managed by Microsoft and provides a fully featured solution that abstracts all of the underlying infrastructures away and lets business focus on analyzing their data. It comes with pre-configured solutions for many typical use cases. What users lose, though, is the flexibility to choose their own storage service or analytics engines, for example.
Azure Time Series Insights, which is now available in preview, is actually a new database offering from Microsoft that is based on the same technology the company itself uses to log every single event on Azure (and we’re talking billions of events a day here). While there are plenty of exceptions, IoT data tends to arrive in a time-based fashion and Time Series Insights is purpose-built to store and interactively visualize and analyze this type of data to find anomalies. For developers, the service also offers an API to integrate it into existing workflows.
Microsoft also announced that its Azure Stream Analytics service can now run on edge devices. This basically means that those devices will be able to run real-time analytics locally without having to send all their data to Azure first. While the cloud solution is meant to parse data from millions of devices, a single device doesn’t actually produce all that much data, and even a very basic Raspberry Pi has enough power to run this service locally. Thanks to this, these devices can function even when they don’t have a reliable connection to the internet.
As George told me, Microsoft believes that as IoT becomes a more mature technology, more and more of the intelligence will get pushed out to the edge — and stream analytics marks Microsoft’s first effort in this area.
Microsoft, of course, isn’t the only company playing in this field. George believes that it does have a leg up on its competitors like Google and AWS, though. “When we look across the industry, we see that there are now three hyper-scale clouds on the planet,” he noted. “We’re the only cloud vendor in IoT with a focus on both solutions and deep on-premises support with the likes of Azure Stack. We feel this really differentiates us from the competition.”

Featured Image: NicoElNino/Getty Images
Tesla is issuing a voluntary recall for Model S and Model X vehicles made between February 2016 and October 2016, for a potential manufacturing issue in which the parking brake, once engaged, might experience a fractured internal gear that results in it being stuck in the ‘on’ position.
Tesla stresses that this recall is being done only because the carmaker typically exercises an abundance of caution in these cases, and that only a small number of vehicles will likely ever exhibit the issue, and that even when they do, the resulting problems don’t present a safety risk to either drivers or passengers.
The problem came to light because Tesla found customers were getting alerts that said their parking brake needs service, or that the brake could not be disengaged, not in huge numbers but with noteworthy frequency. Tesla traced the problem back to a batch of brakes from supplier Brembo installed on cars made during the roughly ten month period covered by the recall.
That amounts to around 53,000 vehicles in total, distributed to customers globally, but Tesla says that under 5 percent – perhaps even as low as 2 percent – of those cars actually have the problem. Still, it is opting to recall them all to avoid any potential issues since it’s hard to easily tell which gears are affected and which are not. Parts will be swapped in every case, as a result, and the recall ultimately affects more than half the cars Tesla produced in 2016, per its own financial results.
Tesla will be filing the recall with NHTSA, and expects to have all parts needed to make the swap by October of this year. The process takes less than 45 minutes to replace both of the parts on each brake on the vehicle, but because of availability of replacement parts, the carmaker will be starting the recall process now and complete a total recall by October, assuming all 53,000 vehicles affected come back for service.
Here’s the full email being sent out to Tesla customers this morning describing the problem, and the steps owners can take to get it fixed:

Tesla recently discovered a potential manufacturing issue with the electric parking brakes installed on certain Model S and Model X vehicles that could prevent the parking brake from releasing. We do not believe this issue could ever lead to a safety concern for our customers, and we have not seen a single accident or injury relating to it. However, in order to be overly cautious, we are going to be proactively replacing these parts to ensure that no issues arise.

Specifically, we have determined that the electric parking brakes installed on Model S and Model X vehicles built between February and October 2016 may contain a small gear that could have been manufactured improperly by our third‑party supplier. If this gear were to break, the parking brake would continue to keep the car from moving, but the parking brake would then be stuck in place. There have been no reports of the parking brake system failing to hold a parked vehicle or failing to stop a vehicle in an emergency as a result of this condition, and this part has no impact on the car’s regular braking systems. We have also determined that only a very small percentage of gears in vehicles built during this period were manufactured improperly.

Our records show that you own a Tesla vehicle that was built during this period. We will soon be sending you an official recall notice by mail, which will include information on how to have your parking brakes replaced. In the meantime, it is safe to continue regular use of your vehicle.

Thank you for being a Tesla customer. For more information, FAQs, and other details related to this recall, please visit the Recall Information page. If you need additional assistance, you can also contact us by phone at 1‑877‑798‑3752 or by email at ServiceHelpNA@tesla.com. We apologize for this inconvenience.
Lilium has successfully tested its all-electric vertical take-off and landing (VTOL) jet for the first time, and you can watch the inaugural test flight above. The basic concept of a VTOL is that it has the benefits of a helicopter in terms of taking off without requiring a huge runway, but once airborne, it can still achieve the higher top speeds of a fixed wing aircraft like a jet.
The Lilium Jet actually completed a series of tests (the condensed version is above), using this two-seat prototype of the larger craft it eventually hopes to create. Lilium also marked the occasion by announcing a new 5-seater design, which it envisions will be used for on-demand flying taxi and ride-sharing services in the future. They’re promising us flying cars, in effect.

Lilium’s 100-percent renewable electric power is its key defining trait; plenty of others are looking at VTOL tech, but many, including DARPA, are using a hybrid fuel approach to work around some of the design and performance challenges of relying solely on electric.
The jet is unique in its use of electric power for both the vertical take-off, and the jet-powered components of its engine system, and Lilium believes this is a key ingredient in terms of making a sustainable vehicle that people will actually use in cities, thanks to its minimal ecological impact.

Using jet-powered flight once the craft is airborne also has big benefits in terms of energy economy once you’re cruising through the air; Lilium says that it can get a range of around 186 miles from its battery and a top speed of about 186 mph, too, which is much more than what you’d get out of a large rotor-only vehicle with similar battery capacity.
To illustrate in real terms what kind of benefits the Lilium Jet could bring to urban transit times, the company provides the example of getting from Manhattan to JFK airport: a trip that’s usually just south of an hour by car would take about 5 minutes using the Lilium Jet. Yeah.
Normally I’m not easily taken in by promises of airborne commutes, but Lilium’s successful test flight video does have my hopes flying aflutter.
When it arrived in December, the White House’s report, “Artificial Intelligence, Automation, and the Economy” felt like both a parting shot and warning to the incoming administration. That it was perfectly dovetailed with heated election rhetoric around domestic job loss was simply a bit of serendipity, however.
The subject matter had been at the forefront of the paper’s authors for some time. In fact, it was a sequel of sorts to study released by the White House the month prior to the election. AI and automation were topics co-author Jason Furman says the Obama White House discussed regularly, between meetings about autonomous vehicles and factory safety.
“It’s one that showed up in a lot of different places in our policy making,” Furman, now a Senior Fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics told TechCrunch in an interview this week. “We would have a meeting about where the jobs were going. AI was popping up in so many separate policy processes and issues that the White House chose to do a pair of reports, the first focusing on the issue and the second focused on the economic aspects of it.”
Between campaign trail promises and post-election photo ops, the thread seems to have been lost on the subject. Economic discussions in recent months seem focused specifically on trade and immigration – longtime talking points and frequent scapegoats that are far easier to distill on the stump than cutting edge technologies.
In March, Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin even went so far as brushing off such questions by characterizing questions about AI-driven job loss as if it were something out of some dystopian sci-fi novel, telling Axios that it wasn’t “even on my radar screen. Far enough that it’s 50 or 100 more years.”
Now, the January report wasn’t exactly a call to take arms against Skynet, but it does address some important truths about automation and AI that have already begun to have a very real impact on both the economy and domestic jobs. For all the growth potential these technologies offer to the U.S. economy, it’s an unavoidable fact that there has been and likely will continue to be short-term gross domestic job loss.
Though Furman says he believes that, as with other economic factors, technology too often serves as a scapegoat.
“I think automation is too easy an out and lets policy makers off the hook,” he explains. “France has a much higher fraction of prime age workers in its work force than the US does. That’s not because France has less automation. It’s because they have labor market institutions that, while still very problematic, do a better job of helping people find work than they do here in the United States.”
Those who are particularly bullish about the future of automation point to past technology breakthroughs like the industrial revolution, which didn’t so much kill jobs as shift the economy away from things like agriculture. What that means, ultimately, is that short term job loss can give way to long term job growth, as new and potentially better jobs are created. And certainly one thing automation and robots have the potential to do is help eliminate what the industry has handily deemed the three Ds – dull, dirty and dangerous jobs.
But among these polarizing conversations around the growth of technology in the industrial setting, an important point often gets lost: if left unchecked, it can serve to expand the already vast economic gulf between what have been deemed “skilled” and “unskilled” workforces. MIT economist David Autor summed the fear up well in a conversation we had earlier this year.
“The labor market for college-educated workers is very, very strong,” he told me. “And those people continue to get paid better. The set available to people who just have a college education or less has dramatically contracted as a function as well as trade, but automation has been the bigger fact. It’s an important part of the growth of inequality we’ve seen over the past several years, the decline of earnings and fortunes of people without a college degree.”
The solution, it turns out, could be simple. Investments in education and job training could help stem the bleeding and bridge the gulf.
“More education would absolutely help,” says Furman. “I think more of what economists call active labor market policies – training, job search assistance and subsidies for jobs. Not all of those programs work, but they’ve gotten a worse reputation than they deserve. We basically don’t try very hard. We spend 0.2-percent of our GDP helping people find jobs and prepare them for jobs. That’s lower than any other OECD country except Mexico and Chile.”
Of course, all that requires financial investments which may not prove a popular solution in a political climate more invested in building walls and hampering trade with other countries. But AI’s impact on jobs is not a conversation to put off for 50 or 100 years in the future.
“I am not sure whether what we want is hard skills like STEM or soft skills like judgment and figuring out how to be nice to the person next to you, which robots aren’t nearly as good at,” says Furman. “My guess is it’s some combination of both. It would be good to get the answer exactly right, but I think getting the answer even partly right would be a good improvement.”

Featured Image: Mark Wilson/Getty Images
Amazon’s connected speakers and other Alexa-powered devices will now work with your G Suite calendar, the company announced this morning. Once enabled, users will be able to ask Alexa to give them an overview of their day or make changes and other additions to their calendar as needed, just by speaking.
The change represents another step towards making Echo and other Alexa speakers more practical devices to have in the office, or for general business use.
G Suite is not the first calendaring platform that Alexa supports. The company has offered Google Calendar integration since launch, and added support earlier this year for both Outlook Calendar (including Hotmail, MSN, and Live email accounts) as well as Office 365 Calendar, for those with Exchange Online mailboxes. However, G Suite is one of the last major calendaring services Amazon needed to round out the voice accessible calendaring functionality.
With the addition, you can say things like “Alexa, what’s on my calendar?” or “Alexa, add lunch with Sarah at noon to my calendar,” and Alexa will respond accordingly.
Note that to enable the feature, you don’t search for it in the Alexa Skill store, but rather make the change in the Alexa companion app. The option is available under Settings –> Calendar in the Accounts section of the Settings page.
Google Home is finally getting a feature that its users have been clamoring for since it launched last year: it can now distinguish between different voices and reply with personalized responses. Until now, you could only connect a single account to a Google Home, and that meant you could only get info about one person’s calendar, for example. If you’re single or don’t have roommates, that’s perfectly fine, but the moment you live with somebody else, that’s a pretty obvious problem.
With today’s update, which should be rolling out in the U.S. as you read this (and which is coming to the U.K. in the coming months), up to six people can share a Google Home. So now, when you ask your morning commute, you’ll get the info about your route and not your spouse’s. The same goes for playlists, schedules, shopping lists, travel info and every other kind of personalized information you’d want to ask you Google Assistant about.
The process of training your Google Home to understand different voices is pretty straightforward. Once this feature is available, you’ll see a card in the Google Home app that tells you that “multi-users is available.” Then, new users can link their Google accounts to the Home and train the Assistant to recognize them by speaking the “OK Google” or “Hey Google” wake word a few times so Google’s neural network can learn the sound of their voice.
While Google didn’t have any official comment about this, this new feature may also finally open up a path to bringing some of the Google Assistant features like creating notes, reminders and events that are currently missing on Home (but available on Android, for example). Those features didn’t make much sense on a device that, while inherently communal, could only recognize a single voice.
Maybe this also opens up room for a feature that Google showed in its launch video at its I/O developer conference last year but also never launched: proactive alerts. Right now, Google Home is mostly a passive device that waits for your commands. Unlike the Assistant (and previously Google Now), it doesn’t alert you when it’s time to leave for the airport, for example. The ability to recognize different voices means some (though not all) of the privacy concerns some people may have around this feature could not be solved (though this would go beyond recognizing who speaks a wake word).
There’s no shortage of customer service startups trying to meet the changing expectations of consumers, who want to Tweet, phone, text and use Facebook Messenger, among other newer ways to get their points across. In fact, according to the investment platform AngelList, there are now 960 companies currently operating around customer care.
That hasn’t deterred Joseph Ansanelli, who joined Greylock Partners as a general partner in 2012 but who’d first started and sold three companies and was itching to do it again.
As he recalls it, he was having dinner with colleague Aneel Bhusri, a former Greylock partner (and now advisor) and the co-founding CEO of the HR and financial management company Workday. It was 2012, Workday had just gone public and the two were talking about the onerous but exciting process of starting companies. Before he knew it, Ansanelli was calling enterprise customers — contacts from his earlier life as a founder — and asking them what they were lacking.
The two things he learned from those conversations were, “first, that they were getting tons of demands and requests from consumers about more ways to communicate, and second, a lot of the [related] software available to them was on-premise stuff centered around case numbers and tickets.”
And customers, says Ansanelli, “don’t like being a case or ticket number.”
In fact, his newest cloud-based company, Gladly, quickly formed around the idea of an enterprise-class company that did away with them, and he moved to get his old band together. Toward that end, he reached out to Michael Wolfe, who was Ansanelli’s co-founder at Vontu, a data loss prevention software company that was acquired by Symantec for $350 million in 2007, as well as Connectify, a company they sold in 1999 to Kana Communications. (Old timers may remember that Kana was a dot-com darling that helped pioneer the concept of email for customer service. It went public in 1999 and was taken private again in 2010.)
Ansanelli separately called up Dirk Kessler, who was Connectify’s first engineer but who’d met Ansanelli at the outset of their careers when both worked at Apple. Even Jenny Roy, a marketing professional who’d worked at Vontu, was tapped again; today’s she’s Gladly’s VP of marketing.
What the trusted colleagues have built, says Ansanelli, is more than another new ticketing system aimed at small and medium size businesses, of which there are many. (Think Freshdesk and Zendesk, among them.) Instead, he says, Gladly, based in San Francisco, keeps track of every customer interaction so that each exchange with a person isn’t viewed as distinct but rather an ongoing conversation, one that can be hosted on any medium, whether it’s Messenger or Kik or WhatsApp or SMS. People are the “atomic unit,” he says, not cases or tickets.
Gladly also is catering to the big enterprise customers that have long relied on Salesforce and Oracle and Cisco. It’s a very tall order, but one helped along by the background of Ansanelli and company. “For these large enterprise customers to feel confident to work with a startup is a challenge, but they look at our track record and they know we’ve been through this before,” he says. Ansanelli notes, for example, that one of Vontu’s earlier customers was the Bank of America. “When you can say, ‘We’ve scaled BofA and Goldman and JPMorgan Chase and we know how to do this,’ it helps us out immensely.”
Whether it helps out enough remains to be seen, but Gladly has already secured five large customers that Ansanelli says he can’t name publicly today. Asked if these are the financial services firms that Ansanelli knows so well, he says financial services is a “focus” as are “retail, travel and leisure” and other companies whose contact centers are closely tied to generating revenue.
In the meantime, investors clearly see room for Gladly, despite both its entrenched and many younger (and also well-funded) competitors. The 50-person company just closed on $36 million in Series C funding led by the cross-border firm GGV Capital, with participation from earlier backers Greylock Partners and New Enterprise Associates.
It has now raised $63 million altogether.
Pictured, from left to right: Gladly founders Michael Wolfe, Dirk Kessler and Joseph Ansanelli. Courtesy of Gladly.
Demand for mobile live streaming on YouTube appears to be strong, given the fact that YouTube shot up to the top of the App Store – a position it hasn’t held since December 2015 – following reports of YouTube opening up this feature to more users. Earlier this week, YouTube was spotted having relaxed its earlier restrictions on mobile live streaming, which was initially only available to creators with 10,000 or more subscribers.
YouTube recently dropped the requirement down to only 1,000 subscribers. The company did not make an official announcement about the change, but YouTube confirmed the details with TechCrunch – noting that the feature is now broadly open to all users with 1,000+ subscribers, not a random pool.

The iOS app then subsequently flew up to the top of the App Store yesterday, according to Sensor Tower’s data. It continued to sit at number one, as of the time of writing. (By time of publication, it dropped to #2).
We should note that YouTube is nowhere nearly as highly ranked on Google Play, where it’s a #2 video player, but #210 overall app. But this speaks more to the fact that YouTube comes pre-installed on many Android smartphones, and doesn’t require a separate download.
The folks at Sensor Tower were the first to notice the App Store jump, and App Annie has also confirmed that YouTube had not ranked #1 for Overall iPhone downloads in the U.S. since December 2015.

The third-party firms’ data may vary from the actual App Store listings, but we checked the App Store directly several times yesterday as well as this morning, and saw YouTube at the top.
YouTube is already a highly ranked iOS app, of course – its lowest Overall ranking this month so far was #9, for example, and it hasn’t really dropped below that all year. But it still takes a sizable amount of momentum to climb up the ranks when you’re in the top 10 – indicating that there was an increase in downloads and the velocity of downloads over the past couple of days.
There are several reasons that an established app like YouTube could have seen a large enough increase in downloads to account for its move to the top of the charts, seemingly overnight.

The company could have changed its ASO strategy (App Store Search Optimization), for example. Like SEO, but for the App Store’s search interface, a tweak here could have helped the app become more visible and highly ranked in the search results. But App Annie says there has been no notable change on this front.
YouTube could have also run advertising or marketing campaigns to boost downloads, or snagged a “Featured” position in the App Store. But again, App Annie has not spotted anything different here, either. More specifically, YouTube hasn’t had any noticeable changes in terms of featuring during the past week, the firm says.
The app may have benefitted from other apps around it seeing a decrease in downloads, which then decreased their rankings. That is to say, not only did YouTube likely see a huge growth in the number of downloads to make this move, it also had to be growing faster relative to its peers. (It wouldn’t have increased its ranking if its surrounding apps had also experienced a similar growth in downloads – it only rose because it grew bigger than the other apps around it.)

That’s remarkable, however, because YouTube’s gain occurred amid a flurry of news from Facebook, which has been holding its annual developer conference F8 this week.
At the event, the company announced a slew of changes coming to its apps, including things like its Camera Effects platform that will bring more AR features to Facebook’s Camera; new chat extensions for Messenger and group bots; QR codes in Messenger and upgrades to its assistant M; an offline mode for Instagram, and more.
One would think that all the Facebook news could have bumped up Facebook’s own apps in the App Store’s rankings. But YouTube outpaced both Facebook and Messenger, as well as Snapchat, which had tried to head off F8 with an AR lens update of its own.
YouTube’s bump up in the charts is indicative of its large and powerful community, and the potential for the mobile live-streaming technology to impact the way these video creators reach their audience. This, in turn, will make YouTube a significant threat to rival streaming services like Twitter’s Periscope and Facebook Live.
The top 10 apps this morning are mobile games Ballz (#2, then moved to #1) and Blackbox (#7), and Messenger (#3), Snapchat (#4), Instagram (#5), Facebook (#6), Snapchat’s Bitmoji (#8), Google Maps (#9) and Netflix (#10). YouTube was ranked number one for most of this morning, in addition to yesterday.
DFJ Growth, the 11-year-old growth-stage arm of the 31-year-old Sand Hill Road firm, has closed its third vehicle with $535 million, slightly more than it was targeting when it began fundraising in the spring of last year. It had closed its previous growth fund with $470 million in May 2014.
The firm has invested in four new portfolio companies over the past year, including the games and “experiences” development platform Unity; Giphy, which provides a search engine for a vast library of GIFs; the connected doorbell startup Ring; and Katerra, an end-to-end design and construction platform co-founded by former Flextronics CEO Michael Marks.
DFJ Growth typically makes four to eight new investments per year.
Yesterday, we had a quick exchange with firm co-founder Randy Glein about the market, the new fund and the firm’s team of five general partners, which includes co-founders John Fisher, Mark Bailey and Barry Schuler, as well as Sam Fort, who was promoted to partner in late 2015.  (In fact, most of the firm’s partners started as associates or venture partners.)
DFJ Growth hasn’t seen any of its portfolio companies go public yet in 2017, but Glein said it has “several companies at IPO scale” in its portfolio, “including nearly a third of the companies in our most recent fund, [as] we feel it typically requires at least $100 million to $200 million in revenue before an IPO is a viable option.”
Perhaps unsurprisingly, the firm — which has invested in a string of winners in previous years, including Box, SolarCity, Tesla, Twitter and Twilio — seems to think it’s early innings for what looks to be a good year for IPOs. The main reason, in his view: tech companies are again “providing public market investors access to growth companies that have become scarce in public markets.”
It’s a rosy assessment, but Glein does have his concerns, he said, namely “things like the state of the global economy and unexpected events that might disrupt the market and adoption of new technologies for a period of time.” Still, these “tend to be short-lived,” he added, saying that “overall, I’m hugely optimistic about the role innovation and technological advancement continues to play in making our world and society better.”
Before we let Glein go, we touched on deal terms and whether they’re changing for later-stage companies. (We’ve gathered from conversations with other investors that terms are starting to favor them over management teams in a lot of cases.)
He said his team has seem “some level of moderating valuation expectations more broadly in the private markets over the past 16 months, as some of the late-stage investors have pulled back.” But he added that the strength of the public markets and recent IPO success stories are providing some “renewed buoyancy” across the board.
Naturally, as with any experienced VC, Glein said his team won’t stop funding companies either way. “We’re playing the long game, and we try to always keep that in mind when evaluating the risk-reward trade-offs of any opportunity.”
Human resources paperwork is never fun to take care of—especially if it’s literally on paper. Swingvy co-founder Jin Choeh says that in Southeast Asia, many small businesses are still stuck with physical spreadsheets and piles of forms. Swingvy wants to help them with affordable cloud-based HR software. The South Korea and Malaysia-based startup just raised $1.1 million in seed funding to grow its customer base.
The round’s lead investors are Big Basin Capital and Walden International. Swingvy has a full set of features, including onboarding new employees, managing leave requests and processing payroll and expense reports.
The company launched its software-as-a-service in October in Malaysia and Singapore and plans to enter Indonesia next. It claims over 1,000 companies have signed up so far.

Before co-founding Swingvy, Choeh was a technical sales manager in Southeast Asia for AhnLab, a South Korean security software company. During that time, he saw that many small businesses still rely on legacy software or physical spreadsheets to handle HR tasks.
For example, if employees want to apply for days off, they often have to fill out paper forms which are then signed by their manager. This means that if a manager is on vacation, they might have to wait until he or she returns to have their leave granted. Payroll management can be contracted out to third-party agents, but then it can take up to five business days before paychecks are issued.
It’s difficult for many businesses to afford on-premises software, so Swingvy’s goal is to offer them a cheaper alternative that is accessible on mobile devices. Swingvy uses a freemium model—its core HR software is free and employers pay a subscription fee for features like automated payroll, bank integration and benefits management.
Choeh says that the SaaS market is increasing at a much faster rate in Southeast Asia than it is in the United States.
“The unit economics is smaller because we usually charge less than in the U.S., but we found that the growth rate is quite fast,” he adds.
Car sharing service Getaround has raised $45 million in Series C funding, led by a new investor Braemar Energy Ventures, and with participation from Toyota Motor Corp and China’s SAIC Motor. The round also includes existing investors Menlo Ventures and Triangle Peak Partners, and is all about helping Getaround continue its new strategy of partnering with big transportation players globally, with an eye towards eventually making it easy for people to gain instant access to self-driving vehicles wherever they are.
Getaround has been doing a lot of partnering lately – the company just recently announced a deal with Uber that will allow drivers to easily pick up one of its fleet parked around San Francisco and do some Uber pick-ups. It also partnered with Toyota in October (which is when it first revealed the automaker was making a strategic investment in the company, too). The carmaker is building Getaround incentives into its lease agreements, as a way to help offer the cost of ownership by making it easy for vehicle owners to put money from renting their vehicle on Getaround directly towards lease payments.
Getaround also has a partnership in place with Mercedes-Benz, including payment rebates when new vehicle owners also rent their cars on the platform. Getaround wants to make this kind of thing much more broadly available across carmaker partners, with technology that makes rentals possible built-in to cars as they roll of the assembly lines, and it hopes this funding will help it get there.
You can see how that would enable a future where it would be easy to find and access autonomous vehicles. Getaround seems focused now on providing the software and hardware integration layer that will make that possible once the autonomous tech is in place, and in the meantime, it offers an interesting way for carmakers to reduce ownership costs and potentially defray some of the gradual declines we’ve seen in that part of the industry.
Spotify — the streaming music company with 50 million paying users — has been working on renegotiating licensing deals with labels over the last several months — a critical move to improve its revenues and margins en route to going public — and today one of the big pieces of that process has fallen into place.
The streaming music platform now has a new deal with Merlin, the biggest digital rights agency representing independent music labels — a fragmented but ultimately large group that accounts for 12 percent of the recorded music market with 20,000 labels (and covering hundreds of thousands of artists as diverse as Dizzee Rascal, Nick Cave and the Bad Seeds, and Prince), and distributors in 51 countries.
We’ve reached out both to Merlin and Spotify to see if they can provide specifics of what the new deal will entail and will update this post as we learn more, although Merlin has already said that it would not be commenting on the commercial terms. From what we’ve heard from a source close to the negotiations, Merlin has been able to get terms that are “competitive” with those of the largest labels.
As a couple of points of reference further to that:
— Earlier this month, Spotify inked a new deal with Universal Music, which saw the label accept a lower royalty payment per-play from Spotify (meaning more kept by the streaming company), but also gained some ground in windowing, where songs will not be available in Spotify’s free tier, and only its paid tier, in the first two weeks of the release. Spotify says that today it has over 100 million active users, so with 50 million paying this means that around 50 million listeners are listening for free.
— Spotify itself notes that “The agreement is structured to reflect and promote the value of Merlin’s collective offering of its members’ repertoire, while offering improved marketing and advertising opportunities and enhanced access to data. Merlin member labels can also participate in Spotify’s recently announced flexible release policy.” (Which was the basis of the Universal deal.)
— Merlin’s CEO Charles Caldas has been outspoken for a while now about how he wants Merlin to have equal footing with larger labels when it comes to licensing negotiations, not just to improve Merlin’s returns but to drive home the point to members that collective bargaining is better in the long run for them.
Ergo, it sounds like Merlin’s deal with Spotify has roughly landed in the same place as Universal’s.
“This new agreement lays the path to future sustainable growth for us both, and we look forward to remaining an integral part in the service’s continued success,” Caldas noted in a statement.
“I’m delighted that Merlin has reached this new agreement with Spotify,” added Martin Mills, Merlin chairman. “We’ve been great partners for each other, and this updated arrangement allows independents in the Merlin community the comfort of knowing they have a highly competitive deal and parity of access to the service, whilst creating a commercial environment in which Spotify can grow to the benefit of all of us.”
Many of Spotify’s earliest adopters were consumers who sought out independent music on the platform, and as such Merlin’s association with the company goes back a long way: Merlin was a launch partner of Spotify’s in 2008 and today covers deals with labels like Armada Music, Beggars Group, Domino, Entertainment One, Epitaph/Anti, Hopeless Records, Kobalt Music Recordings, Mad Decent, Naxos, [PIAS], Secretly Group, Sub Pop and Warp.


Indie music has been a huge part of our success since day one & I am super happy to say we have a new, multi-year deal w/ @merlinnetwork 💚
— Daniel Ek (@eldsjal) April 20, 2017



Today, Spotify has 50 million paying users, a big emphasis on playlists, and is aiming a much bigger, mainstream market. Partly because of this, Merlin today is the fourth-largest label partner on Spotify — although this is still significant in that there are many smaller and independent groups that are still negotiating with Spotify below it. Warner, Sony and Universal account for the majority of the 30 million tracks available on the service.
Spotify was last valued back in 2015 at $8.53 billion, but while revenues have been on a steady upward climb since then, so have its payments to labels. In 2015, the last year for which there are public accounts for Spotify, the company posted a net loss of €173 million ($186 million), revenues of €1.95 billion ($2.1 billion), but with royalty and distribution fees of €1.63 billion ($1.75 billion) (via FT).
This is what led the company to renegotiating its deals with labels, at a time when Spotify has realised that it has significantly more leverage now because of its size as the world’s biggest streaming music company.
While Pandora is now moving ahead with its own Premium tiers and (finally) some more international growth, and Apple is pushing hard on its own music product, Spotify has not been standing still. Just this week the company expanded its half-price student tier to 33 countries, and it relaunched its artists’ portal to improve services that creatives and their managers can use to market their music, interact with fans, view analytics about how their tracks are being consumed and more.
Prior to the renegotiations, Spotify was working on a rough 70-72 percent payout as has been reported before and outlined a few years ago by Spotify itself (a past link to Spotify’s own explanation is now dead). Essentially, about 55 percent is paid to record labels and artists; and 15 percent or more goes to music publishers and songwriters.
The company says it has paid out over $5 billion to rights holders since launching.
Merlin, meanwhile, also licenses to SoundCloud, YouTube Red, Spotify, Pandora, Google Play, Deezer, Vevo and KKBOX in Asia.
At the Shanghai Auto Show on this week, global automotive supplier Harman announced a new partnership with Baidu, the leading Chinese internet services provider. The team-up brings together Samsung-owned Harman’s extensive reach among automakers, and existing expertise in-car infotainment systems, with Baidu’s leading role in China’s AI software economy.
Baidu will develop cloud-based AI solutions for use in cars in partnership with Harman, across efforts that include building Baidu’s DuerOS voice-based personal assistant into cars. DuerOS is a bit like an Alexa for the Chinese market, with an open platform that’s accessible to makers of many categories of consumer devices, including speakers, TVs, phones and more. With Harman, Baidu will focus on tailoring DuerOS for automotive use cases, with speech recognition and natural language process capabilities in both English and Mandarin.
Harman and Baidu previously teamed up to launch a solution called CarLife that offers networked, Internet-based features accessible via networked in-car infotainment systems. And the partnership sounds like it’ll only grow closer from here: The work both companies are doing in the car with DuerOS is expected to eventually make its way back to smart speakers, another area where Harman is a global international powerhouse.

Featured Image: Bloomberg / Contributor/Getty Images
Amazon Lex, the technology powering Amazon’s virtual assistant Alexa, has exited preview, according to a report from Reuters this morning. The system, which involves natural language understanding technology combined with automatic speech recognition, was first introduced in November, at Amazon’s AWS re:Invent conference in Las Vegas.
At the time, Amazon explained how Lex can be used by developers who want to build their own conversational applications, like chatbots.
As an example, the company had demoed a tool that allowed users to book a flight using only their voice.
However, the system is not limited to working only in the chatbots you find in today’s consumer messaging apps, like Facebook Messenger (though it can be integrated with that platform). Lex can actually work in any voice or text chatbot on mobile, web or in other chat services beyond Messenger, including Slack and Twilio SMS.
Amazon has suggested it could be used for a variety of purposes, including web and mobile applications where the technology provides users with information, powers their application, helps with various work activities, or even provides a control mechanism for robots, drones and toys.

Chatbots in messaging – and particularly in e-commerce bots – is a solid entry point for Lex’s technology, though. Consumers today have been frustrated by the current crop of chatbots that have clunky menus to navigate through, and a limited ability to respond to questions users asked. Lex, on the other hand, would allow developers to create bots that convert speech to text and those that could recognize the intent of the text, making the resulting bot more conversational, and more sophisticated than those on the market at present.
Lex, as a fully managed Amazon service, would also scale automatically as the bots’ usage increased, meaning developers would only pay for the number of text or voice queries that Lex processes.
Amazon’s goal with opening up Lex to the wider development community could give it an edge in its ability to compete with other voice technology, like Google’s Assistant or Apple’s Siri, for example. The company plans to take the text and recordings that people send to Lex-powered apps in order to improve Lex, and its ability to understand more queries, notes today’s report.
This openness has been Amazon’s larger strategy with much of its Alexa platform. For example, it already had rolled out Alexa Voice Services which allowed developers to integrate Alexa into their own devices, like speakers, bedside alarm clocks, and more.
Alexa’s software isn’t the only area where Amazon is embracing an open ecosystem. The company earlier this month said it would make the technology powering its Echo speakers available to third-party device makers as well. This includes the microphone array listening to Alexa commands, and the proprietary software that can recognize wake words, reduce background noise, and cancel out echos in large rooms.
By offering this to OEMs, other device manufacturers can build their own smart, voice-powered products – even those that would compete with Amazon’s own Echo speakers.
Developers interested in Amazon Lex can get started here.
Listen up, investors at Disrupt NY 2017. This one’s for you.
We’re thrilled to announce that you can now peruse all of the companies that will be on display in the Startup Alley at Disrupt NY 2017 on our handy Startup Alley Hub.
In addition to being a fantastic resource, the site is mobile-friendly so you can easily view info on all of your favorite Alley companies right from your mobile device at the conference.
The hub is separated into days and categories, so you can see all of the e-commerce companies that will be on display on day 1 of the conference, for example, making it simple to keep track of the companies you’re interested in talking to.
Each company on the hub has a profile that contains information about the company and their product or service, as well as any investors in the company thus far and how much money they’ve raised to date. The profile also contains contact information for the company’s founders and other representatives so you have all the information you need to get in touch right at your fingertips.
And if you’re so inclined you can share interesting company profiles with your followers on social media sites with the share buttons on the left side of each company profile.
We wanted to make it easy for all the investors at Disrupt to learn more about the companies they’ll be connecting with in Startup Alley and Hardware Alley, and we think the Startup Alley hub is a pivotal resource for you as you plan your days at the show.
Speaking of the show, Disrupt NY 2017 takes place May 15-17 at Manhattan’s Pier 36, and we can’t wait to see all of you VCs, entrepreneurs and tech enthusiasts at the show.
And if you somehow still haven’t purchased your Disrupt ticket, you can do so here and save big before Early Bird sales end this Friday.
Our sponsors help make Disrupt happen. If you are interested in learning more about sponsorship opportunities, please contact our sponsorship team at sponsors@techcrunch.com.
An organic bed linen subscription and recycling service sounds like the ultimate hipster indulgence, but considering the massive amount of textiles that end up in landfills every year, it might actually have an impact. Coyuchi, which was one of the first companies to offer organic sheets when it was founded in 1991, launched Coyuchi For Life this week. Subscriptions start at $5 a month and let customers pick how often they want new sheets and towels delivered to them.
When subscribers want to get rid of their linens, Coyuchi takes them back and, depending on their condition, recycles them or—for fabrics that still have some life left in them—launders them in a process that uses carbon dioxide instead of dry cleaning solvents to sell secondhand.
According to the Secondary Materials and Recycled Textiles Association, about 95 percent of textile waste can be recycled or reused. But more than 15 million tons of fabric ended up in landfills in 2013, and of that amount, just 15 percent was recovered for recycling.
Coyuchi is among several companies that want consumers to rethink bedtime. For example, Utah-based startup Purple may reach unicorn valuation for its mattresses, which are made without toxic materials, while Brooklinen, Parachute and Boll & Branch, which sell high-quality bed linens, have each recently received funding.
Eileen Mockus, Coyuchi’s CEO, tells TechCrunch that the company’s subscription service “really allows customers to engage with us in a long-term way around sustainability.”
Coyuchi For Life customers receive new sheets, towels or duvet covers every six, 12 or 24 months. Mockus says those increments of time were based on consumer habits. For example, a lot of people swap out their bed linen based on the weather and buy new sets every year or two.
Coyuchi’s products are relatively straightforward to recycle into new yarn because they are made only from cotton and don’t use finishers like formaldehyde or chlorine bleach. Mockus hopes, however, that the subscription/recycling business model can be applied to other categories of textile products.
“What we are trying to get at is what are those opportunities as we look at how the current supply chain is set up,” she says. “Getting into a more circular system is what sustainability eventually needs to drive and that’s what we want to accomplish as we put this model together.”
If Black Mirror is anything to go by, rating everyone around you isn’t always a great idea, but Completed wants to make it easier to rate and rank the business professionals around you. It’s kind of like Yelp, but instead of rating companies, you’re rating the people within the businesses. The San Francisco-based company wants to use these ratings to shake up both hiring and career development.
“Constructive criticism of employee performance is extremely valuable. It creates accountability, which can be influential for career development and hiring,” Michael Zammuto, CEO of Completed said. The company just came out of a month-long beta, during which the company added 150,000 people to its database.
When you go through the company’s sign-up process, it becomes extremely obvious that while the rating side of the company is a great hook and a reason for people to sign up, Completed firmly has LinkedIn in its crosshairs. Makes sense, too, perhaps, after Microsoft snapped up the professional social networking site for $26 billion and change, and has had a less-than-stellar run ever since. One of LinkedIn’s early engineers, Leo Polovets, puts it well:


I used to think LinkedIn could only get better from its current state. Then the redesign happened and I found out I was very wrong. https://t.co/shrW1KZjfa
— Leo Polovets (@lpolovets) March 10, 2017




Related Articles
But as many other companies have found through the years, a solid network effect means that no matter how bad LinkedIn might be to its users, it’s extremely hard to shake loose its ninja grip on the market of professional networking. That isn’t stopping Completed from giving it a whirl, however.
“We’re extremely excited to officially launch Completed. Professionals will finally be able to be rewarded for good work and have a chance to get constructive feedback to improve,” Zammuto says, describing his new company as an enabler of “a true Meritocratic Society.”

From launch, the company has been successful in resolving some of the challenges with which other rating-style companies have struggled. The company advertises “a strict anti-cyberbullying policy that prohibits harassing, threatening, embarrassing and targeting reviews,” for example. There’s also a mechanism in place where users can interact with reviewers to ask questions or resolve feedback they feel is unfair. How well this works in practice is obviously still to be seen, but it means that there’s at least a fighting chance to stave off the fake news epidemic from our personal lives.
The site launches to the public today, as the company announces a $150,000 seed round to help keep the wheels a-turning.
Craigslist is great for serial killers and spear-phishers, but less than ideal for anyone looking for housing.
As a platform for renters, Bedly aims to take some of the pain out of the housing-rental process — and it’s hoping that’s a draw for landlords too. Co-founded by Martin Greenberg, formerly of IBM’s cybersecurity team, and Benjamin Chester, Bedly takes care of all the annoying stuff on both ends. For renters, that means furnishing apartments, screening roommates and setting up utilities. For landlords, that means attracting young professionals who don’t want to deal with the hassle of logistics, and offering property rentals through a clean, navigable platform.

Like Airbnb in its frictionless ideal, Bedly instead concentrates on medium to long-term stays (think 3 months, 6 months and so on) rather than a per-night model. Once a renter is in Bedly’s network, the company wants to make it easy for them to move around if a place isn’t quite the right fit. Because 95 percent of its listings are pre-furnished, that’s not as much of an ordeal as it would be with a traditional rental. On top of furniture, Bedly unit pricing factors in furnishings (even bed linens and kitchen items), Wi-Fi and secure access via a pre-programmed digital lock.
“Landlords haven’t changed their products in a very, very long time,” Bedly co-founder Martin Greenberg said. “The old way is antiquated and makes no sense for the new generation of renters.” Greenberg emphasizes mobility for its renters, boasting that the company does away with the concept of a 12-month lease altogether. “You’re not locked in, from a flexibility perspective.”

With a $2.7 million seed round led by Cambridge-based Accomplice, Greenberg hopes that Bedly can expand its rental inventory by partnering with more high-inventory landlords looking to switch things up. The Founder Collective also participated in the round, along with additional angel investors, and the company went through AngelPad’s three-month incubator program in 2015. Right now, the company, formerly known as Launchpad, is operating on a very small scale, with 350 listings across its two markets and twelve full-time employees.
Bedly is live in New York and Boston, two competitive, stressful rental markets filled with young professionals who care less about where they live and how long they’ll be in one spot. In both cities, renters are used to paying substantial broker fees to rent an apartment, so Bedly hopes that its own perks “layer up” to replace those renter costs with something that provides ongoing value.
For young people who aren’t yet practically or psychologically tethered to a static sense of home, Bedly is a step or two beyond dorm life out into the real world. In the on-demand economy, having a place to hang your hat is just one more thing to worry about — and Bedly is hoping that for plenty of users, that’s just one thing too many.

Featured Image: Tom Sibley/Getty Images
GoPro today announced the Fusion, a camera capable of capturing spherical video for use in VR and standard video formats through a software solution. The camera will be released this fall. GoPro has yet to name the price. If nothing else GoPro is becoming a camera company again.
The Fusion shows that GoPro is going back to its core competency in creating hardware. Action cameras existed before GoPro. But GoPro provided a better complete solution and the market responded by making the company top-selling vendor. GoPro likely hopes the same thing will happen with the Fusion and the rest of the spherical camera market.
Specific details are still a bit light since the camera will not be released until the fall. Even the images released by GoPro are clearly carefully composed to reveal more about the camera’s intended use rather than specifics about the camera. We even boosted the levels of the photo above to reveal a bit more.
The company says in a press release that the Fusion records 360-degree video at 5.2K30 and features a mode called OverCapture that lets users go back and carve out a standard video file from the spherical footage. Essentially, GoPro is building a camera that lets users record literally everything and then select the best framing later.
GoPro has built similar solutions in the past that involved mounting several GoPros into a rig that positioned the cameras to capture every angle and software then stitched the footage together. But with GoPro cameras costing hundreds of dollars each, these rigs are expensive. The Fusion will likely be less expensive than these rigs.
There are several other spherical cameras on the market though none have made a big splash. They range in price from a few hundred dollars to a couple thousand. GoPro’s advantage could be the software that lets users produce a standard POV-looking video from the captured footage. Traditionally videos captured by spherical cameras have a fish-eye look, which can be off-putting and distracting.
GoPro is opening a beta program this summer to get the Fusion in the hands of creative users. The company hopes this program will help further refine the user experience prior to releasing the camera on the general market. This is a smart move. The expectations are different and could help reduce negative reactions once the camera hits stores.
If you live in New York, you’ve seen the subway ads. MakeSpace wants to free your apartment of clutter.
And now the self-storage startup is getting $30 million to execute on their vision. This follows another $17.5 million raised last year.
Venture capitalists from 8VC, Upfront Ventures, Harmony Partners and Summit Action believe that there’s a $30 billion market opportunity for clothing and furniture storage, and that startups like MakeSpace will continue to take their share of it. Celebrity investors like Carmelo Anthony and Nas have also bet on MakeSpace.
“The growth has been impressive,” said Mark Suster, managing partner at Upfront Ventures. “I love backing startups in large markets where there’s been no innovation.”
MakeSpace wants to make it easier for people to access their storage items and has built an on-demand app, where you can pay to have select items delivered. If you’ve ever made the trek to a creepy storage facility, you’ll understand why this is a convenience.
“Gone are the usual limits of square footage, vehicle accessibility, and moving muscle strength – MakeSpace covers it all so customers don’t have to think through these details,” said Kimmy Scotti, partner at 8VC. She’s joining the MakeSpace board.
It also saves MakeSpace money because they don’t have to pay high rents in prime locations. Instead they have storage facilities in less desirable areas because they are the ones that bringing items back and forth.
CEO Sam Rosen said that they’ve learned storage is an “average middle class problem.” And it’s not just for people with space constraints, “death, downsize, divorce and disaster” can all be motivators.
Based in New York, MakeSpace is just focused on NYC and a few other markets. Los Angeles, Washington D.C., and Chicago also have MakeSpace.
They will not be using the funding to expand to new regions. Instead, they plan to double down on the cities they are already in. They currently have “tens of thousands” of customers, said Rosen.
MakeSpace aims to be affordable. New York pricing starts at $59 per month.
But MakeSpace is not the only storage startup looking to shake up the space. Clutter, based in Los Angeles, is also making headways. Trove recently launched in beta in San Francisco.
Rosen says that they may eventually expand beyond storage and help with other related tasks, moving and selling furniture are possibilities.
They also are trying to brand themselves as a “thought leader” in home living. MakeSpace’s website has a blog about home organizing.
If you’re looking to participate in the hackathon at Disrupt NY 2017, but missed out on the first round of tickets, you’re in luck!
Today, we’re releasing a new batch of hackathon tickets, so everyone who has their hearts set on spending a demanding, but fun-filled weekend building something great should head on over to ticketing page and grab your free hackathon tickets before they’re gone.
You can get your tickets here.
The hackathon kicks off at 12:30 p.m. PT on Saturday, May 13, with networking and the forming of the hackathon teams. On Sunday, May 14, after spending nearly a full day hacking and coding, teams will have just 60 seconds to present their projects to a panel of judges on the Disrupt stage.
In addition to building something cool, teams have the opportunity to win two tickets to the main Disrupt conference on May 15-17, a $5,000 grand prize that goes to the winning team, and several gadgets, toys and monetary prizes from our sponsors.

All teams that earn a score of 3 or higher from our judges will win two free tickets to Disrupt, where they’ll get to check out hundreds of early-stage startups in Startup and Hardware Alley, hear from several entrepreneurs, investors and innovators in a series of interviews and fireside chats, and take in the illustrious Startup Battlefield competition.
Plus, they’ll be able to attend all the parties and after-parties that take place during Disrupt, and keep the networking going long into the night.
So get those crazy ideas floating around in the back of your head, grab a free hackathon ticket and get ready to spend the weekend hacking and coding those ideas into reality.
We can’t wait to see what you all come up with.
The Disrupt NY Hackathon takes place May 13 – 14 at Manhattan’s Pier 36. We look forward to seeing you all there!
Our sponsors help make Disrupt happen. If you are interested in learning more about sponsorship opportunities, please contact our sponsorship team at sponsors@techcrunch.com.
Shopify is announcing a number of new APIs for developers at its annual Unite developer conference in San Francisco today, but the new Marketing Events API might be the most interesting, especially for sellers using the platform. Basically, it allows the many developers already building marketing plug-in apps for Shopify stores to more easily show what their tools are doing for merchants, directly within Shopify itself. And, it could eventually recommend winning marketing strategies without any human intervention.
For instance, a newsletter integration provider could show Shopify store owners how many sales are resulting directly from email campaigns, and do so without requiring any heavy lifting on the part of the merchant like messing with manual UTM code creation and tracking. The results will also show up as visualized data in Shopify’s store backend for users, which is a huge deal when you consider many small sellers have never really thought hard about what marketing can do for their business, let alone know where to go looking for worthwhile analytics.
“Marketing apps have always been the biggest category in our app store, in terms of installs, developer interest and that kind of thing,” explained Shopify product manager Daniel Patricio. “But only very recently, we started thinking about how we can take advantage of all the apps on our platform to help them and to help our merchants, long term.”
It’s clear that people build things with it, and run campaigns, but it struck Patricio that it’s very difficult for merchants to track things. It’s fairly easy to identify the sources of traffic to the store, but when you don’t necessarily know what specific action caused that traffic, it’s hard to identify your best practices for marketing and reconfiguring your campaign in a way that will lead to growth.
Patricio found out how hard it was based on experience with his own store on Shopify, which sells cured meats. He had to build his own tool, using pretty hacky methods, to find out what was working about his marketing efforts and what wasn’t as he was trying to increase his shipment volume to help make sure he could keep his drop shipper.
“We just went to 12 of our biggest app partners and said ‘we know you’re doing good things, but nobody knows what it is,'” he said. “So we asked them to add this tracking so that we could more easily show merchants what this was doing for them.”
In aggregate, it’s obvious that marketing is doing lots of work in making stores successful. Patricio told me that 50 percent of stores on the platform have marketing apps installed, and those that track marketing using UTM codes are 10 times more successful than those that don’t. To that end, the Marketing Events API is also going to help give direct, in-line feedback to shop owners about what they can do, and when.

“We can look at what’s working in terms of marketing for that category, and we can make recommendations specific to the merchant about what they should do to improve,” Patricio said. Those recommendations can be inline, one-click calls to action that take merchants to the marketing activity they need to do to get those improvements others in their category are seeing.
Basically the goal is to make merchants more sustainable and more likely to grow over time, which benefits Shopify. This should also benefit merchants building apps for the platform, so Patricio is confident that more developers will join in once they see how well this works in terms of adding some transparency to the often murky marketing process.
Recommendations are based on anonymized aggregated category data, Shopify says, and so won’t ever reveal the exact secret sauce of your closest competitor. But it sounds like marketing recommendations could become more sophisticated over time, letting Shopify offer a more or less full-service marketing engine for small businesses that otherwise wouldn’t have access to those kinds of tools.
Mobile game developers tend to enjoy offering swag related to their games, especially if those amass any kind of decent-sized audience. The Unity Buy SDK from Shopify, announced at its Unite developer conference today, makes it easier to build a store for real stuff right inside your game, so that players can buy t-shirts, mugs, toys and emblazoned with your logo and characters as easily as they would in-app currency.
The Unity Buy SDK basically sticks a working Shopify storefront right inside a mobile game, and they can support Apple Pay for even quicker transactions on iOS. Popular mobile endless runner Alto’s Adventure is one of the first games to build in the Unity Buy SDK, and it’s a natural fit because Alto’s sells real-world goods including adorable plush llamas, which is actually something I’d find sorely tempting mid-run.
The Alto’s integration is a relatively simple use; Shopify Director of Product Brandon Chu told me that developers could easily gate access to their shops, with unlocks of various items dependent on your progress through the game. Clear a difficult level – unlock a more exclusive item. There’s nothing specifically saying game developers need only sell their own gear, too, so you could easily envision a difficult twitch platformer combining flash sales and gaming with unlockable Yeezys buyable only for the most elite.
“Imagine I see someone wearing shirt that I know they unlocked in a game, it’s like some sort of credibility,” Chu said. “And if you are a game and you don’t actually have any physical products to sell, you can actually plug in and build a sales channel that’s public, so that other merchants can actually sell through your game as well.”
Possibilities include restaurant-themed games selling home kitchen and cooking gear, or sports games selling real-world sporting equipment. It could even be an entirely new way of making revenue from mobile software development, on top of things like in-app purchases direct software sales or ad-supported revenue models.
The Unity Buy SDK is actually part of Shopify’s broader launch of its Custom Storefronts platform, which essentially exposes the tools it uses to create web-based stores and makes those available to anyone, so that they can embed stores in a number of places with a minimum of calls and resources required. It definitely opens up some new possibilities for ecommerce, and it just might mean you’re buying real candy the next time you find yourself playing Candy Crunch Saga.
Shopify has designed its own hardware for the first time, building out a design team and coming up with a unique approach to the simple card reader, that most basic tool in the real-world merchant’s arsenal. The new chip and swipe card reader makes its official debut at Shopify’s Unite developer conference in San Francisco today, and it’s a device with a superficial simplicity that only hints at how much care went into the design process.
From around 2013 onwards, Shopify began paying close attention to how much of its online-seller customer base began selling in person, via pop-up shops and also via small shops set up in their home towns. That year, it released Shopify POS for the first time, and the key difference in that was the hardware component. Shopify was happy to rely on partners for that hardware piece of the picture, as it wasn’t within its core set of skills.
“We’ve learned a ton over that period of time, in bringing people hardware and scaling point of sale to many tens of thousands of merchants,” explained Shopify VP of Product Satish Kanwar in an interview. “What we’ve seen is the evolution of the retail store as a place that was primarily a first channel for someone, to being a great experiential marketing strategy for people, and just a necessary part of the growth and evolution of any retail brand, whether you started online first or not.”

Retail is changing as a result, and that means merchants need a more seamless solution across both online and offline parts of their businesses, Kanwar says. That led them to set up creating their dedicated hardware unit within the company around one year ago, with the aim of taking all the lessons they’ve learned from their merchants’ collective experience with in-person sales.
“What people forget is that it’s not just the merchant that’s touching the hardware, like a cash register,” Kanwar said. “When it comes to a card reader, it’s the shopper that’s interacting with the device and inputting their card as well. What we realized is that it’s really hard to get a good balance of good quality, versatility and something that provides that delightful experience in something that’s also affordable.”
Shopify’s reader is a device designed to cover all those bases, with a detachable reader that you can use one-handed and can handle both swipes and chip-based “dips.” A subtle groove offers a solid thumb rest and Kanwar showed me how a merchant can even use it stacked with their phone with one hand thanks to the groove, paired with a textured surface that won’t slide off the back of your smartphone or tablet too easily.

The reader plugs into a base via micro USB, which is also the connector used to plug the base into a power source for charging. The battery in the reader should easily handle a full week’s worth of transactions even if left unplugged, and the modular design is intentionally made to fit with multiple different mounting options to come in the future, in addition to the current weighted base.
All of Shopify’s careful design work will likely remain mostly invisible to both merchants and shoppers, however, if they’ve done what they set out to do; Kanwar notes that the minimalist branding and largely white device is meant to help foreground the in-person shopping experience, rather than the tech that enables it.
Shopify’s card reader will be free, which for merchants might be the most important aspect of its design; that’s if you’re a Shopify merchant without a current Shopify POS solution — others can also buy them for $29 via the Shopify Hardware Store. The accessory supports both iOS and Android, and processes payments with rates starting at 2.4 percent per swipe. It connects to your phone via Bluetooth LE, too, meaning if you happen to be without a headphone jack you’re in luck.
Shopify is offering these for pre-order to its U.S.-based merchants now, and shipping should start in June. Now that the company has a dedicated team working on hardware, it’s likely this isn’t the end of their in-house device design efforts, but Kanwar only hinted at what might be possible in terms of different docking attachments for the reader when asked about the future.
Heads up, startup guys and gals. You are seriously running out of time to get deeply discounted tickets to the hottest startup show in the Big Apple – Disrupt NY 2017.
With Disrupt NY 2017 a few short weeks away, the window to purchase early bird Disrupt tickets is quickly closing. You have until the end of day tomorrow, April 21 to get tickets for just $1,995 apiece, a full $1,000 less than what you’ll pay if you wait until Saturday.
You can get your tickets here.
That ticket is your all-access pass to all the great things taking place at this year’s Disrupt.
With your Early Bird ticket, you’ll get to hobnob with reps from hundreds of startups that will be pitching their products and services to the thousands of attendees walking through Startup Alley and Hardware Alley.
Then, you’ll hear from the experts in a series of interviews and fireside chats with some pretty promising speakers, and keep the networking going long into the night with the many After Parties that take place after the show floor closes up for the night.
Plus, you’ll get to take in the illustrious Startup Battlefield competition, in which a dozen startups pitch their companies to our panel of judges in the hopes of winning the highly coveted Disrupt Cup and the $50,000 main prize. The Battlefield is easily the best startup competition in the industry, and it’s something you’re really going to want to witness for yourself.
So, what are you waiting for? You have just two more days to get your Disrupt NY tickets and save some serious dough in the process, so be sure to get over to our ticketing page today before prices jump by a full $1,000 on Saturday.
Disrupt NY 2017 takes place May 15-17 at Pier 36 in Manhattan. We hope to see you all there.
Our sponsors help make Disrupt happen. If you are interested in learning more about sponsorship opportunities, please fill out this form and our sponsorship team will get back to you.
Verizon just released its first quarter earnings results, with adjusted earnings per share of 95 cents on revenue of $29.8 billion.
Revenue (minus divestitures and acquisitions) is down 4.5 percent from the first quarter of 2016. The numbers also fall short of what analysts had been predicting: EPS of 96 cents per share on revenue of $30.5 billion.
Verizon says there was a net decline of 307,000 wireless postpaid connections in the past quarter. However, it also says the launch of its Unlimited data plan “positively changed the trajectory of customer additions” — after the February launch, Verizon says it added 109,000 postpaid connections.
On the digital media side, Verizon says AOL (which owns TechCrunch) saw revenue (minus traffic acquisition costs) decrease 4 percent year-over-year, a decline it attributes to the growth of programmatic advertising. Internet of Things revenue was up 17 percent.
“Our first-quarter results again demonstrated that customers value a high-quality network experience,” said Verizon CEO Lowell McAdam in the earnings release. “To build on our loyal customer base and the third-party recognition we have received for network leadership, we extended our wireless and fiber network capabilities, began offering an unlimited pricing option and expanded our opportunities in new markets. We’re executing on strategies to capture future growth and create long-term shareholder value.”

Related Articles
 Earlier this week, McAdam told Bloomberg that Verizon would be open to merger talks with Comcast, Disney or CBS: “If [Comcast CEO Brian Roberts] came knocking on the door, I’d have a discussion with him about it.”
Of course, Verizon still needs to complete its acquisition of Yahoo, which it plans to combine with AOL into a digital media organization called Oath.
As of 8am Eastern, Verizon shares were down 2.3 percent in pre-market trading.
MasterCard is trialling a Chip and PIN bankcard that includes an embedded fingerprint reader, introducing a biometric authentication layer for card payments — and taking a leaf out of the book of Apple Pay et al in the process. The thinking here being: why pay by entering a four-digit PIN when you can stick your thumb on it?
So far the biometric card has been trialled at two locations in South Africa, with additional trials planned over the next few months in Europe and Asia Pacific, according to a spokeswoman, and a full rollout expected later this year.
“We are targeting consumer rollout by end of 2017 through issuers that choose to offer biometric cards,” she told us.
MasterCard is touting convenience and security as the drivers for embedding a fingerprint sensor in plastic bankcards — after all, you can’t shoulder-surf a fingerprint as you can a PIN number. Although the use of contactless payment technology in bankcards (a tech that’s widespread in Europe) already offers a faster (and usually PIN-less) way to make card payments.

That said, there are some security risks with contactless payments, given there’s usually no authentication performed — so there could be an advantage to combining a contactless bankcard with a biometric one that also contains a fingerprint sensor in order to get speedy payments with at least a layer of security. (Although mobile fingerprint sensors have been shown to be spoofable. So the size of the sensor and the process for capturing a user’s print during enrollment are key considerations here.)
In this instance the MasterCard trial bankcard does not include contactless payment technology — but the spokeswoman told us that a future version will include contactless “adding to the simplicity, and convenience at checkout”.
For now, testers are required to insert the card into the POS terminal and then place their finger/thumb on the reader to authenticate the payment, as pictured above (vs entering a PIN into the keypad in the usual way).
The spokeswoman said the card is configured to expect the fingerprint for authenticating a purchase but does still have a PIN as a fall-back. “If the finger is too greasy or sweaty and the biometric doesn’t go through, the cardholder would experience a small delay and then asked to put in their PIN to complete the transaction,” she added. “The PIN also allows cardholders to use the card at ATMs globally.”
One relatively large drawback for the convenience of the biometric card is that the spokeswoman confirmed users are currently required to go to a bank branch in order to register and enroll their fingerprint. (Which is then converted into an encrypted digital template that is stored on the card.) Whereas bankcard users are normally mailed both their card and its PIN through the post so there’s no need to go to a branch to register before being able to use the card.
When asked about this the spokeswoman said MasterCard is “exploring ways to make remote registration possible”. Although again, while remote registration would be more convenient it could also open up the possibility for vulnerabilities with the implementation of the biometric technology — depending on how the fingerprint enrollment is performed.
One thing is clear, global payments giants are taking plenty of inspiration from mobile tech.
“Consumers are increasingly experiencing the convenience and security of biometrics,” said Ajay Bhalla, president, enterprise risk and security, MasterCard, in a supporting statement. “Whether unlocking a smartphone or shopping online, the fingerprint is helping to deliver additional convenience and security. It’s not something that can be taken or replicated and will help our cardholders get on with their lives knowing their payments are protected.”
MasterCard has also previously trialled facial biometrics for payments — launching a so-called ‘selfie pay’ app last October which lets people authenticate an online payment by showing their face to their phone’s camera.
ZappRX, the app that aims to make it easier to manage specialty drug prescriptions, has pulled in $25 million in Series B funding led by Qiming US, the Chinese venture outfit’s stateside health care fund.
GV (formerly Google Ventures) and GlaxoSmithKline’s funding arm SR One were also in the round and Qiming US’s Mark McDade will now join the board.
ZappRx solves a unique dilemma in the prescription medication industry for doctors and pharmacists who treat conditions like oncology and pulmonology by getting rid of the paperwork. Many pharmacies still use fax or phone to transfer medical prescription information from the doctor, delaying the process and making mistakes more likely. ZappRx solves that by automating the via an app which can process the information in real-time.
The startup’s platform is already being used in several top academic medical centers and multi-specialty practices in the U.S. The new funding will help the company expand in a fast-growing and potentially $400 billion market in the next few years and ensures ZappRX gets in on the worldwide trend towards health care modernization. It will also enable the company to hire engineers, business development managers and to forge partnerships in order to grow.
So what’s next? Founder Zoe Barry says she couldn’t talk about any deals happening just yet but that she is in talks to work with all three of the big specialty pharmacies and tells TechCrunch the goal is “to create essentially what is the Kayak meets Amazon one click of a disease platform” — or in other words, getting through the drug purchase process as quickly as possible and at the best price.
The startup previously raised $16 million, bringing the total funding to $41 million.
*An earlier version of this article stated ZappRX previously raised $8.8 million. We’ve since updated to the correct number.
The consolidation of smaller cloud services through acquisitions by larger could platforms has been a running theme in the enterprise world for a while, and this morning we got a glimpse of what might be the latest development on that front. Israeli publication Calcalist is reporting that Microsoft is in talks to acquire Cloudyn — startup founded in Tel Aviv that monitors and optimizes a company’s cloud storage across multiple vendors — for a price of between $50 million and $70 million.
We’ve reached out to both Cloudyn and Microsoft for comment and have received nearly identical replies in response: “No comment at this time” from a Microsoft spokesperson, and “At this time, no comment,” from Cloudyn’s spokesperson. Separately, a source close to the situation tells TechCrunch that nothing has been signed so that’s a signal that things could shift, or not happen at all.
To date, Cloudyn, which was founded in 2011, has raised $20.5 million, according to Crunchbase, from investors that include Carmel Ventures, Infosys and Russia’s Titanium (Calcalist notes a higher funding figure of $22.5 million). This means a $50 million to $70 million price tag is at least more than double, or nearly four times the money raised, and a 10x multiple on revenues, which Calcalist reports at between $5 million and $7 million a year.
To note, there are other competitors in the same area as Cloudyn, including CloudCheckr, CloudHealth Technologies and RightScale. These three have each raised between twice and three times as much as Cloudyn.
Microsoft is one of the biggest players in cloud services by way of its Azure business, which competes against the likes of AWS from Amazon and Google Cloud, amongst many others, vying for business from companies who use the platforms not just for storage, but also to run apps and other services.
As network connectivity has become cheaper and faster, and mobile devices with strong computing power but less storage have become the norm, cloud services have exploded.
Cloudyn, in this context, is an interesting business because it has positioned itself as an agnostic but intelligent companion to how businesses are actually using cloud services today.
In many cases, we are seeing hybrid deployments spanning both cloud and on-premises offerings, as well as businesses that are using cloud services from a range of providers. (As one notable example, you might remember a story from last year about Apple signing on for “some” services with Google, although still using AWS and Azure for others.)
As we have written previously about Cloudyn, the company’s dashboard not only allows companies to monitor how services are being used, but also to optimize this, including increasing capacity when needed.
If this deal happens, it will be worth watching how Microsoft implements it. Obviously, the company has a strong mandate in increasing the amount of business on its Azure platform, which has been growing at a steady pace — revenues for the division last quarter were up 93 percent and compute usage more than doubled, with the annualized run rate at $14 billion.
But more significantly, Microsoft has been making a push to promote the idea of multiplatform services — the message being: Microsoft will be there for you, wherever you happen to be.
(See Microsoft’s app strategy across different operating systems as another example of this, or how the company has implemented Teams, its collaboration product, which clearly favors Microsoft software but does not play in an exclusively walled garden, since many companies do not.)
It is here that Cloudyn could be a more useful addition to the Microsoft portfolio: a way to help Microsoft’s customers monitor how their services are working in the cloud, while perhaps in the process also giving Microsoft’s own services a helpful nudge in the mix.
It helps, too, that Cloudyn itself has been amassing a large client list itself. The company says that it works with “thousands” of companies, including “Fortune 500 leaders in all major industry verticals.”
Notably, Cloudyn also is already a Microsoft partner. In March of this year, it announced support for Microsoft Cloud Solution Providers — that is, integrators and other in-the-middle services providers who sit between Azure (or other cloud providers) and enterprises and manage and monitor usage on those platforms on their behalf, perhaps tied to a specific product at the business that the integrator has implemented. Infosys (which, again, invests in Cloudyn), Westcon-Comstor and Insight are already customers.
There have been a number of other acquisitions in the cloud services space of smaller startups by larger platforms as they continue to build out the services that they are offering to customers to increase what can be quite thin margins, and to make services more sticky.
Amazon’s AWS, for example, has acquired several companies in the last year, including Harvest.ai, Do.com, Biba and Thinkbox, all to expand what it can offer to businesses on its cloud platform.
Other acquisitions that Microsoft has made in Israel include enterprise security firms Aorato, Adallom and Secure Islands.

Featured Image: LIUSHENGFILM/Shutterstock
Apple is coming under pressure from authorities in China after internet regulators asked the company to tighten standards for iOS apps in the country.
A report from state news agency Xinhua said Apple had been summoned for questioning for allowing three streaming services — toutiao.com, huoshanzhibo.com and huajiao.com — to “violate four different regulations concerning Internet information services.” The agency added that the services were found to have “significant loopholes” around their management of live-broadcasts, according to the findings of an investigation. In particular, the apps were criticized for issues managing content, user classification and identity verification, although it isn’t entirely clear exactly what issues sparked authorities into action.
Live-streaming has taken over off in China over the past year. We reported on the phenomenon in depth last year, and just this year live-streaming has helped dating app Momo post record growth and Tencent recently backed another top streaming app to the tune of $350 million.
But with mainstream adoption comes scrutiny. Critics have argued that app stores are a new frontier for internet censorship in countries like China and Russia, but realistically Apple’s hands are tied because it can hardly go against government orders and remain in business in local markets. For example, Apple was forced to remove the New York Times app from the Chinese version of the iOS App Store and it previously pulled its iTunes Movies and iBooks services just six months after a local launch.
In a seemingly unrelated issue today, Apple has revoked a popular tips feature from the WeChat app for iOS. As Bloomberg reported, tips appears to have been removed because they violate Apple’s policy on third-party payment and purchase systems inside an app.

Featured Image: JOHANNES EISELE/Getty Images
French telecom company Orange is launching a bank this Summer in France. Orange CEO Stéphane Richard listed some of the features behind Orange Bank this morning at a press conference. And let’s just say that it doesn’t sound as groundbreaking as the company thinks.
Just like N26, Revolut and others, you’ll be able to control your payment card directly from your phone. Transactions will show up instantly in the app and you’ll be able to block and unblock the card in a couple of taps in case you can’t find it.
You’ll also be able to send money with a text message. So you can expect a peer-to-peer payment service like Lydia, Venmo, etc. Finally, Richard hinted at NFC payments with your phone. Orange already supports NFC payments on Android with Orange Cash, and using Apple Pay on iOS.
You’ll be able to create an account in an Orange store or online. Creating an account is free and you don’t have to be an Orange customer. You won’t pay any monthly fee as long as you regularly use your account and card. Customers will be able to open a checking account with overdraft, a savings account and will get a Visa card.
When it comes to customer support, Orange Bank is going to provide traditional phone and text support during daytime. But that’s not all as Orange thought it would be a good idea to partner with IBM to provide an AI-powered Watson-based assistant to help you.
Let’s just say that I’m quite skeptical because customers shouldn’t have to contact customer support in the first place. If you provide enough features and give back control to your users, then customers don’t need to call you to process a transfer, increase the payment limit with your card or open a savings account.
But I guess chatbots are trendy, so this Watson assistant will help you with some basic features. Maybe I’m wrong and it’ll be Orange Bank’s killer feature. I’ll find out when Orange Bank is available.
Orange first acquired 65 percent of Groupama Banque in April 2016. At the time, the company said Orange Bank would launch in early 2017. Orange is going to miss its target as Orange Bank is going to launch on July 6, 2017. Orange employees will be able to open an account starting on May 15. Eventually, Orange wants to attract 2 million customers in France.
Richard already mentioned that Orange is working on insurance products and loans. So Orange Bank will have all the key features of a retail bank. There will be an API so that fintech startups can connect their services with Orange’s financial services. It’ll come down to execution and user experience. Traditional banking apps in France suck, so let’s see if Orange can do a better job on this front.


Maintenant, @orange c’est aussi une banque. Bienvenue @OrangeBankFR pic.twitter.com/fIDtAr4mxU
— Stéphane Richard (@srichard) April 20, 2017




Featured Image: Laurent Chamussy/SIPA/Orange
Flying-car company AeroMobil revealed its new model today, and is set to start taking pre-orders for the limited first edition run of the hybrid vehicle. The company had promised to offer a commercially available flying car in 2017, and this somewhat makes good on that promise, though pre-orders placed now won’t ship until 2020, since AeroMobil expects to ramp up to full production over the next few years and deliver starting then.
The AeroMobil does sound impressive on paper, however: It transforms from car mode to air in less than 3 minutes. It has around 434 miles of driving range, too, or around 466 miles of flight range operating at 75 percent of its maximum speed. Top ground speed for the AeroMobil car-plane is around 100 mph, while it can do around 224 mph while gunning it during flight.
AeroMobil is more emphatic about safety than speed, however — the vehicle has a lot of features designed to make sure it can withstand even choppy flying weather. There’s a parachute for emergency landings that will help the car float back to earth, and airbags are designed to help out in both terrestrial and airborne crashes.
It all sounds very cool, and plucked from a Bond film, obviously. This model was helped along by the $3.2 million in cash it raised from supply partner Patrick Hessel, and was unveiled for the first time today at Monaco’s ultra-fancy Top Marques auto show.
The price tag is fancy, too: The car starts at $1.3 million, so you’re not going to see a lot of these in neighborhood driveways.
Amazon isn’t in Southeast Asia yet — the e-commerce giant pushed back plans to enter early this year — but that isn’t stopping future rival Lazada teaming up with a range of companies to offer an Amazon Prime-style membership package in advance of its arrival.
Lazada, the e-commerce firm that is majority owned by China’s Alibaba, today announced an alliance with Netflix and Uber on a membership program called LiveUp.
For a fixed yearly fee of SG$28 ($20), LiveUp subscribers gain access to a range of deals across services from the companies. Those includes promotions and faster/free delivery for e-commerce stores Lazada and Taobao Collection, which is controlled by Lazada’s owner Alibaba, and offers for RedMart, the online grocery service bought by Lazada last year. There is also a free six-month subscription to Netflix, and discounts on Uber rides and UberEats meal deliveries.
The service is initially available in Singapore — the market that Amazon is targeting as its first entry point for Southeast Asia — but the companies said they plan to explore “other collaborations throughout the Southeast Asia region.” In addition, a smartphone app will be available later this year.
“We believe that Singapore is at the tipping point in which consumers are embracing online lifestyle services like shopping, ride-sharing, food delivery and entertainment as a way of life,” Lazada Singapore CEO Alexis Lanternier said in a statement.
Beyond benefits for Lazada ahead of Amazon’s entry to the region, the alliance will also help Netflix find a footing in a geography when many consumers are still reluctant to pay for content. LiveUp also gives Uber a leg-up on its competition with Grab, its $3 billion rival which recently launched a membership program for its customers in Southeast Asia.
Southeast Asia is commonly overlooked in favor of the larger markets of India and China, but it is showing promise for tech companies. The region has a cumulative population of over 600 million which, coupled with growing smartphone sales and an emerging middle class, is tipped to send e-commerce surging. A 2016 report co-authored by Google estimates that e-commerce spending across the region will reach $88 billion by 2025, up from just $5.5 billion in 2015.
Top image: Left to right Roger Egan, Redmart CEO, Alexis Lanternier, Lazada Singapore CEO, and Warren Tseng, general manager of Uber Singapore
Squeeze for the Brilliant U.  05.16.2017  https://t.co/89OuHXbBlt pic.twitter.com/jLaeFD2wMW
— HTC (@htc) April 20, 2017



HTC has confirmed rumors that its upcoming new smartphone — the U — will be squeezable. That doesn’t mean the Taiwanese firm is about to ship a rubber device. Rather, the phone’s metal frame will include embedded sensors that enable its owner to control settings and make gestures by squeezing its sides or swiping up and down on them, according to a VentureBeat report from prolific smartphone insider Evan Blass.
In other words, smartphone controls will no longer be limited to the screen.
It’s an intriguing prospect, and we’ll know more when the device is unveiled on May 16, according to today’s HTC teaser. You can expect the company to shed more light on the squeeze mechanics and other features before that date.
HTC will hope that the U and its quirks make a larger dent than the U Ultra, which has already gotten a 20 percent price cut to increase its appeal despite going on sale just weeks ago.

Featured Image: Kārlis Dambrāns/Flickr UNDER A CC BY 2.0 LICENSE (IMAGE HAS BEEN MODIFIED)
Another day, another deal to widen the reach of Ant Financial, the fintech-focused Alibaba affiliate.
This week, Ant Financial announced that it is picking up HelloPay, the payments firm attached to Lazada, which Alibaba bought a major share in for $1 billion last year. HelloPay was founded in November 2014 by Lazada to develop payment services for its e-commerce business.
The deal is an entirely logical one, given the ownership chain, and it will see HelloPay become owned and operated by Ant Financial out of its Singapore office. Furthermore, HelloPay will be rebranded locally to Alipay Singapore, Alipay Malaysia, Alipay Indonesia and Alipay Philippines in its markets.
Ant Financial is best known for operating Alipay, China’s largest mobile payment service with 450 million users, alongside digital banking and financial services. This year it has embarked on a series of deals to extend its reach beyond China into other parts of Asia. It’s recently set up a joint venture in Indonesia, and has made investments in Korea, and created similar alliances in the Philippines and Thailand. Ant Financial is also on the cusp of buying U.S.-based cross-border remittance Moneygram for $1.2 billion following a bid from rival payment operator Euronet.
Alibaba, meanwhile, is planting roots in Southeast Asia following last year’s Lazada investment. It recently announced plans for a cross-border e-commerce hub in Malaysia, and, as TechCrunch reported last month, it is in discussions to buy out the remainder of Lazada.

Featured Image: KYTan/Shutterstock
Oculus Rift co-founder Palmer Luckey didn’t just support Donald Trump by backing Nimble America, an organization that made anti-Hillary Clinton “shitposts.” He also donated $100,000 to Trump’s inauguration committee under a shell company named after an element in his favorite Super Nintendo game, reports Mother Jones.
Mother Jones found that a limited liability company called Wings of Time with a Los Angeles address made a $100,000 donation on January 4. Another address for Wings of Time in California business records, 6301 E Seaside Walk in Long Beach, matches one used by Luckey for other projects, including companies called Luckey Arms LLC and Fiendlord’s Keep.
Wings of Time and Fiendlord’s Keep are both names of elements in Chrono Trigger, which Luckey has said was one of his favorite SNES games as a teenager.
Oculus Rift was sold to Facebook in 2014 for $2 billion. In October, after his connection to Nimble America was publicized and attracted a flurry of negative attention, Luckey wrote in a Facebook post that he was “deeply sorry that my actions are negatively impacting the perception of Oculus and its partners.” He left Facebook in March.
Peter Thiel, the tech investor who was named to Trump’s transition team, also donated $100,000, while big tech firms, including Microsoft, Google, AT&T, Intel, Amazon, Verizon and Qualcomm, gave various amounts. Companies often donate money for the inaugurations of incoming presidents from both sides of the political aisle, but in this case the contributions were notable because of Trump’s conflicts with the tech industry, especially over immigration issues.
We’ve emailed Oculus Rift and Luckey for comment.

Featured Image: Sportsfile/Getty Images
Apple has set a lofty goal for itself: use only renewable materials in its products to protect the environment and avoid “blood minerals.” In its 2017 Environmental Responsibility Report, released today ahead of Earth Day, the company said it is “challenging ourselves to one day end our reliance on mining altogether.” Greenpeace, however, thinks that’s not enough. The non-profit praised Apple’s commitment, but had a caveat: it also wants the company to make devices that last longer and are easier to repair.
In an interview with Vice News, Lisa Jackson, Apple’s vice president of environmental, policy and social initiatives, said “we’re actually doing something that we rarely do, which is announce a goal before we’ve completely figured out how to do it. So we’re a little nervous, but we also think it’s really important, because as a sector, we believe it’s where technology should be going.”
Using only recycled materials not only reduces environmental impact, but also helps prevent human rights abuses, such as the use of child labor to mine cobalt, which is essential for lithium-ion batteries, and minerals from conflict zones. (Apple recently stopped buying cobalt mined in Congo and audited its supply chain).
Other mined materials used in Apple products include aluminum, copper, tin and tungsten. In its Environmental Responsibility Report, Apple said “to start, we’re encouraging more customers to recycle their old devices through Apple Renew. And we’re piloting innovative new recycling techniques, like our line of disassembly robots, so we can put reclaimed materials to better use in new products. It’s an ambitious goal that will require many years of collaboration across multiple Apple teams, our suppliers, and specialty retailers—but our work is already under way.”
Of course, one reason why Apple is doing this is the publicity that will be generated if it is able to declare iPhones and other products conflict-free.
“I’d be lying if I didn’t say that one of the reasons that it appeals to us to use more recycled materials is that it gives us a different potential answer to that question,” Jackson, who served as the head of the Environmental Protection Agency from 2009 to 2013, told Vice News.
This may help Apple foster goodwill among consumers, who are starting to make more purchasing decisions based on social issues.
For many smartphone users, however, a sticking point is that Apple products, including iPhones, have a reputation for being harder to repair than devices from other manufacturers. Greenpeace called the company out on this issue, saying that “while transitioning to 100 percent recycled materials is critical to reducing the sector’s footprint, it is also fundamental for Apple and other major IT companies to design products that last, are easy to repair and recyclable at the end of life.”
Jackson told Vice News that “a lot of people buy Apple products because they know they do last.” But as the publication points out, electrical appliances in general have shorter lifespans than they did just a decade ago and that Apple itself says iPhones and Apple Watches are only supposed to last three years — though the same report also notes that most of those products last a lot longer than three years and continue to get updates beyond that time.
Still, Apple’s promise is a step in the right direction, even if the company still doesn’t know how exactly it will come to fruition. For one thing, it puts onus on competitors to keep up.
“This commitment, and Apple’s recent progress in transitioning its supply chain in Asia to renewable energy, puts it far ahead of others in the sector,” said Greenpeace in its statement. “Major IT brands such as Samsung, Huawei and Microsoft should quickly match Apple’s leadership, if they don’t want to risk falling even further behind.”
“Apple’s announcement comes less than a month after Samsung’s commitment to refurbish and recycle 4.3 million Galaxy Note 7s recalled worldwide, sending a strong signal to Samsung and the rest of the sector that much greater innovation is possible,” it added.

Featured Image: Zhang Peng/Getty Images
Scientists are set to engage in a frivolous race of single-molecule “nanocars” on, if you can believe it, a solid gold track. It’s the boldest show of academic elitism and greatest waste of taxpayer dollars since the duck penis thing. Oh wait, it’s actually the greatest thing of all time.
The whole thing is a bit of a lark, thought up by chemists Christian Joachim and Gwénaël Rapenne as a way to drum up interest in the more prosaic aspects of nanotechnology, if you can really call them that.
Each “car” is a single molecule of perhaps a few dozen atoms, arranged in such a way that the electrons fired from the tip of a scanning tunneling microscope will propel them forward. This is accomplished in different ways by different nanocars: one might enter a higher energy state by absorbing the electron and deform, scooting it down the track. Another might be stable enough to repel the electron and be in turn propelled by it. (No pushing your car with the tip itself, that’s cheating.)
Some superficially resemble cars, but no one’s sure if wheels work the same at that scale, and there sure aren’t any engines — although the basic idea of a chassis with axles seems to apply.
This is how one car would go, ideally, but no one is really sure.
The track is a 100-nanometer-long piece of polished pure gold, so chosen because it is highly nonreactive, allowing all kinds of elements and configurations in the contestants’ molecules. It will be kept in a vacuum and as close to absolute zero as they can get it, since individual molecules tend to blow around a bit under ordinary circumstances.
There are two turns, which makes the course rather advanced, considering these things have never even gone in a straight line before.
Some of the nanocar designs aiming to qualify.
This madness will all take place at the University of Toulouse, which has a four-headed STM, each head of which can drive one nanocar. So right now they’re running qualifiers to see which of six proposed designs from a variety of institutions will make it to the starting line.
No one really knows what will happen after that. The cars might disappear, break up or go the wrong way. Japanese racer hopeful Waka Nakanishi admitted part of the reason she’s participating is to get her molecule under the university’s high-quality STM and find out what it’ll do. Sure, why not?
Every zap provided by the STM will be followed by a scan of the track, and every hour these scans will be uploaded as an animation, allowing fans to follow along in about as real time as you can expect from this ridiculous endeavor.

Curious? I knew you would be. You can learn more at the project’s website or, if you speak French, in the video above. There’s even a BD!
Google is planning to add an ad blocker to Chrome, its web browser, and to possibly turn it on by default for all users. That seems counterintuitive for a company that makes the majority of its revenue (read: all the monies) from advertising, but it could actually be a way to beat blockers by becoming one itself, per a new Wall Street Journal report that first reported the news.
If Google offers its own ad blocker in Chrome, targeting specific types of ads that users find particularly annoying, like pop-overs and autoplaying audio and video, those users might never seek out a third-party ad-blocking extension, the logic goes. The WSJ reports that Google doesn’t love the deals it often has to make with third-party blockers like Adblock Plus, which require payment of fees in some cases to whitelist ads by companies like Google who are willing to pay for the privilege of working around their filters.
Chrome’s widespread uptake by internet users means the browser has almost half of the market when it comes to navigating the web, so putting an ad blocker natively within Chrome and turning it on by default would basically stop cold the growth of third-party options: Users won’t actively seek out a way to block ads during their web-browsing sessions if the ads are already blocked to begin with.
It’s a plan that’s sort of akin to operating for years with very thin margins or at a loss to block out the competition, almost the way Amazon approached e-commerce. Google wouldn’t be aiming to eliminate advertising altogether, but a side-benefit for consumers might be the institution of more user-friendly acceptability standards for ads — if you turn off your ad blocker for a second, you’ll find it’s gotten pretty bad out there.
Of course, the plan offers plenty of potential pitfalls. As an advertiser itself, Google exercising stronger controls over ads will definitely draw criticism from industry peers, and possibly also from antitrust watchdog organizations. The WSJ says this isn’t yet a done deal, but if it does come, it might be announced sometime within the next few weeks (maybe at I/O in mid-May?), so we shouldn’t have to wait long to find out how much this rocks the online advertising industry boat.

Featured Image: Stephen Shankland/Flickr UNDER A CC BY-SA 2.0 LICENSE
Today’s Stories 

Juicero users find that man trumps machine
Facebook will license its new 360 cameras that capture in six degrees of freedom
Spotify’s half-priced student pricing expands worldwide
Microsoft to shut down Wunderlist in favor of its new app, To-Do
Planned Parenthood enrolls in 500 Startups’ seed program

Credits
Written and Hosted by: Anthony HaFilmed by: Matthew MauroEdited by: John Murillo
Notes
Tito Hamze is on vacation until April 27. I wonder if he’s having a good time.
A new state might join the ranks of those that allow testing of autonomous vehicles on public roads: A bill just passed the Texas Senate Transportation Committee that spells out a path toward statutes allowing use of highly automated vehicles on public state roads. The legislation has already been composed and vetted by public safety interests, as well as private and public stakeholders, and this moves it one step closer to becoming law, pending Senate debate and referral to the House.
The bill, “SB 2205” to its friends, was introduced by Senator Kelly Hancock, who also is the chair of the Senate Business & Commerce committee, and it’s definitely intended to help make sure that Texas can attract investment and economic boosts from companies seeking to build autonomous vehicles and self-driving software. Texas is likely eyeing nearby Arizona covetously, as that state plays host to self-driving vehicle tests from GM’s Cruise, Alphabet’s Waymo and Uber.
Texas’ bill would allow tests of cars that comply with any and all applicable federal laws, provided they’re also registered by the Texas DMV and have an on-board recorder to track data in case of incidents. It also requires that testers inform relevant state agencies ahead of time regarding the time and place where testing will occur, and that it be insured and display signs indicating it’s an autonomous car.
Like other states, Texas requires regular summaries of data resulting from tests be submitted both to its own Department of Transportation and to NHTSA.
Other states are likewise looking to encourage self-driving testing and operation, and in December Michigan lawmakers passed some of the most permissive laws around operation of autonomous vehicles, setting up a framework for not just testing but eventual vehicle sales, too.
Driving behavior seldom restrains itself to strictly within state borders, so it’s a good thing for the industry at large that more states are warming up to allowing autonomous tech on their roads.
Facebook will assemble an independent Ethical, Legal and Social Implications (ELSI) panel to oversee its development of a direct brain-to-computer typing interface it previewed today at its F8 conference. Facebook’s R&D department Building 8’s head Regina Dugan tells TechCrunch, “It’s early days . . . we’re in the process of forming it right now.”
Meanwhile, much of the work on the brain interface is being conducted by Facebook’s university research partners like UC Berkeley and Johns Hopkins. Facebook’s technical lead on the project, Mark Chevillet, says, “They’re all held to the same standards as the NIH or other government bodies funding their work, so they already are working with institutional review boards at these universities that are ensuring that those standards are met.” Institutional review boards ensure test subjects aren’t being abused and research is being done as safely as possible.
 In any new technology you see a lot of hype talk, some apocalyptic talk and then there’s serious work.— Regina Dugan, head of Facebook's Building 8 lab
Regina Dugan presents at F8
Facebook hopes to use optical neural imaging technology to scan the brain 100 times per second to detect thoughts and turn them into text. Meanwhile, it’s working on “skin-hearing” that could translate sounds into haptic feedback that people can learn to understand like braille. Dugan insists, “None of the work that we do that is related to this will be absent of these kinds of institutional review boards.”
So at least there will be independent ethicists working to minimize the potential for malicious use of Facebook’s brain-reading technology to steal or police people’s thoughts.
During our interview, Dugan showed her cognizance of people’s concerns, repeating the start of her keynote speech today saying, “I’ve never seen a technology that you developed with great impact that didn’t have unintended consequences that needed to be guardrailed or managed. In any new technology you see a lot of hype talk, some apocalyptic talk and then there’s serious work which is really focused on bringing successful outcomes to bear in a responsible way.”
In the past, she says the safeguards have been able to keep up with the pace of invention. “In the early days of the Human Genome Project there was a lot of conversation about whether we’d build a super race or whether people would be discriminated against for their genetic conditions and so on,” Dugan explains. “People took that very seriously and were responsible about it, so they formed what was called a ELSI panel . . . By the time that we got the technology available to us, that framework, that contractual, ethical framework had already been built, so that work will be done here too. That work will have to be done.”
 
Building 8 R&D division head Regina Dugan at Facebook’s Area 404 lab
In just the span of a week, Facebook went from being criticized for not innovating and just copying Snapchat, to merely using its social network monopoly to squash the innovation of others, to innovating so far into the future that it scares us and conjures dystopic thoughts.
Worryingly, Dugan eventually appeared frustrated in response to my inquiries about how her team thinks about safety precautions for brain interfaces, saying, “The flip side of the question that you’re asking is ‘why invent it at all?’ and I just believe that the optimistic perspective is that on balance, technological advances have really meant good things for the world if they’re handled responsibly.”
Facebook’s domination of social networking and advertising give it billions in profit per quarter to pour into R&D. But its old “Move fast and break things” philosophy is a lot more frightening when it’s building brain scanners. Hopefully Facebook will prioritize the assembly of the ELSI ethics board Dugan promised and be as transparent as possible about the development of this exciting-yet-unnerving technology.
Facebook has been putting a lot of resources into improving internet connectivity in rural areas. At first, that may seem like a distraction for the social networking giant, but Facebook takes its mission to connect people pretty literally. And to do so, it’s taking a building-block approach that involves lots of different projects that all attempt to solve different issues of this larger technology challenge.
At its F8 conference in San Jose this week, Facebook once again moved these connectivity efforts into the spotlight. While the most exciting example of its work in this area is surely its giant, solar-powered Aquila drone (which actually hangs over the exhibit area at the conference), a lot of the work Facebook is doing here is in the networking technologies that connect the drone (or multiple drones) with the internet. That includes a project like Terragraph, which is meant for urban environments, as well as the likes of the OpenCellular project, a fully featured wireless access platform of technologies for improving the backhaul networks that power all of this.
As Facebook’s director of its connectivity programs Yael Maguire told me in an interview at the event, it’s worth remembering that Facebook itself has no interest in commercializing these technologies. “There is technology development and then there’s the community — how we engage with the world,” he said. “As technology gets developed, the plan is to contribute it to community organizations, the Telecom Infrastructure Project — modeled after the Open Compute project — and then figure out how we get like-minded companies and individuals excited about thinking about how technology gets deployed at scale.” He noted that a number of telecom companies are already working on prototyping some of the technologies Facebook developed and contributed, including the Voyager router project.

Facebook’s projects, of course, focus on connecting rural areas that are currently underserved by exactly the telecom companies it hopes will adopt these technologies. As Maguire noted, what these telecoms care about is that the backhaul becomes price-effective enough that it makes sense for them to provide connectivity in these areas.
At the end of the day, all of these projects — no matter whether we are talking about drones or antennas that cover city blocks — depend on a backhaul network that is typically powered by fiber connections. That was also one of Facebook’s motivations for launching a rather traditional fiber network in Uganda earlier this year. “Fiber is the start of everything,” Maguire said. “You can’t have Aquila, you can’t have Terragraph unless you have fiber. And so we have to make sure that we are part of understanding and seeing if there is any way that we can help in the ecosystem context if every part of that chain of technology can work. And if Fiber is hard to deploy in rural Uganda to connect Aquila, then we have a problem.”
It’s worth noting that for Facebook, the emphasis here is on connecting people — not devices. So while the projects it is working on may also be useful for Internet-of-Things (IoT) applications, that’s not something the company is focusing on itself. Maguire noted that the openness of the project does mean that others can take these technologies and apply them to IoT.
Now that Facebook has many of the hardware building blocks in place, one of the next major set of challenges involves the software that brings it all together. “That’s actually where we are really excited because that really plays to the core strengths of the company,” Maguire told me. “We started as a software company. We’ve gotten really good at combining software and hardware for our infrastructure and that was about taking a lot of things that were commodity hardware and bringing them together in unique ways. So this idea of taking building blocks and combining them is not foreign to us.”
Facebook, of course, isn’t the only company working on solving this issue of bringing connectivity to rural areas. When I asked Maguire about Google’s project Loon, which uses balloons instead of drones, he noted that his team is cheering for Google to succeed, too. “Connecting people just helps everyone, I think,” he said. “I love that they are exploring different spaces than we are.” Maguire, however, also noted that his team didn’t choose the balloon approach for a reason. “We want to focus on systems that can station-keep,” he said. “If you are connected to this network, we want to make sure that you have connectivity at all times. If the wind is blowing, it has to be there. […] At low altitude, we want systems to be tethered and we want to make it so that there is propulsion so that in the face of winds they stay stationary to provide that connectivity.”
Silicon Valley and the tech community at large has been a staunch opponent of Trump’s immigration policies, from the “Muslim Ban” executive orders to H-1B restrictions. Today sees 162 companies banding together to file an amicus brief in support of a lawsuit challenging the revised immigration order issued in March.
Pretty much all the majors are listed as amici: Facebook, Google, SpaceX, Amazon, Salesforce, Microsoft, etc.
After describing for several pages the achievements of immigrants as far back as Nikola Tesla, the document lists its arguments for why the order is (still) unreasonable and unlawful.
Like the First Executive Order, the Second Order effects a fundamental shift in the rules governing entry into the United States, and is inflicting substantial harm on U.S. companies, their employees, and the entire economy.
The brief claims the order violates USC 1152, which requires that “no person shall… be discriminated against in the issuance of an immigrant visa because of the person’s race, sex, nationality, place of birth, or place of residence.”
The power of the president to ban certain persons from immigration temporarily is acknowledged, but described as totally out of line with the scope of the bill.
…the ban applies to literally millions of people who could not plausibly be foreign terrorists: hundreds of thousands of students, employees, and family members of citizens who have been previously admitted to the United States, and countless peaceful individuals who are citizens of or born in the targeted countries.
Trump’s second order, like the first, is facing legal challenges at the national level. The administration declined to further appeal the rejection of the first, instead opting to craft a revised version — which faces similar but possibly more manageable legal opposition.

Featured Image: Spencer Platt/Getty Images
How do you solve a problem like IBM?
Yesterday evening the company reported its 20th straight consecutive quarter of year-on-year losses. The company’s quarterly earnings beat expectations, but that wasn’t enough to save the share price.
As a result, shares plummeted in after-hours trading and refused to gain ground over the course of the day, dropping nearly 5 percent, or more than $8.
As the Motley Fool noted, the miss and resulting tumble erased nearly $9 billion from IBM’s market capitalization and brought the Dow Jones Industrial Average down by 64 points.
The problem for IBM is the dwindling value of the consulting business on which it built much of its fortunes in the 1990s and early 2000s.
First, the big numbers. Earnings per share were $2.38 versus expectations of $2.35, according to Thomson Reuters. Meanwhile, revenue fell to $18.16 billion, compared with the $18.39 billion that “the Street” expected.
The big numbers
That’s a 1 percent gain in earnings per share, and a 3 percent decline in revenue from a year ago, the company said.
There are bright spots. The company’s cloud business is booming with revenues of $3.5 billion, marking growth of 33 percent over last year’s numbers.
What’s concerning to analysts is that the revenue numbers may track with Amazon’s in terms of revenue, but AWS and Azure are growing at a faster clip  (AWS business is growing at 47 percent according to the most recent numbers). 
And as a friend of mine put it on Facebook, “When you spend 100s of millions on the cloud and are handily beaten by a bookstore that wasn’t even trying, that’s not a good sign.”
Still, fans of Big Blue can take heart in that its “strategic imperatives” businesses (around which IBM began restructuring in 2015) are beginning to show some growth. 
Revenue at that business segment increased 12 percent to $7.8 billion, the company said (not adjusted for currency). And the company’s cognitive solutions business grew to $4.1 billion, or more than 2 percent.
Earlier this year IBM chief executive Ginni Rometty said that the strategic imperatives business lines accounted for more than 40 percent of total revenue for 2016.
Where the hurt happened
Losses were mainly in the legacy businesses, like consulting and sales from hardware and infrastructure equipment (to be expected, as the cloud computing business essentially cannibalizes hardware sales).
And, IBM also spent a bit more on research and development in the last quarter, with that number ticking up to $1.53 billion from $1.46 billion in the year-ago period. It’s a number that still lags behind the biggest tech companies.


IBM’s R&D department was famous for decades for churning out impressive technologies, and the “Beast from Armonk” (no one actually calls it that) needs to reclaim some of that mantle if it’s going to continue to compete with the Microsofts, Googles and Amazons of the world — let alone the Huaweis and Alibabas. 
IBM isn’t new to makeovers. Since its founding more than 100 years ago, IBM has made several, radical changes to its business over the years. It sold its computer business to the Chinese manufacturer Lenovo in 2005 in a $1.75 billion deal — and nearly a decade later sold its server business to Lenovo for another $2.1 billion.
It’s all part of the restructuring process that was begun decades earlier under IBM’s first outside chief executive, Louis Gerstner, who came to the company from RJR Nabisco (in retrospect, maybe bringing in someone from RJR Nabisco to run IBM wasn’t the best idea).
What “the Street” wants
All of this comes as analysts are looking hard at the restructuring Rometty began two years ago. According to a Barrons report, one of the big sources of concern for analysts was the company’s gross profit margin. Barrons cited a report from Morgan Stanley analyst Katy Huberty:
We view gross margins as the cleanest read on IBM delivering leverage on the back of heavy investments during 2015-16. If we don’t see meaningful strides toward Y/Y gross margin stability across most segments later this year, we see the risk that IBM returns to low-end of software peer multiples, represented by our $142 bear case.
So gross margins are putting pressure on a business that needs to start showing real revenue growth if it’s to remain competitive. 
IBM can’t rely on stock buybacks and other financial shenanigans to inflate the stock price and make itself appealing to investors. 
As I’d said, there are bright spots. The sexier businesses around security, cognitive computing, cloud computing et al. are getting customers, but how long that happens depends on IBM’s ability to do more than rest on its laurels. 
As one of the oldest and most storied technology companies in the U.S., it’s hard to watch Big Blue stumble… But there are plenty of bullish analysts who think that Rometty can right the ship… if she’s given a enough time to do it. 

Featured Image: Ethan Miller/Getty Images
If you saw the same reports I did a bit earlier today you were likely shocked to hear that Apple would be removing its iconic ‘glass cube’ entrance way over the top of its 5th Ave retail store in NYC. The reports came via building permits that were likely tipped to sites like Macrumors by Apple watchers.
The permits call for the “full removal of the glass cubical structure at the Apple Store entrance.”
I was immediately massively skeptical that Apple would delete one of the most well-known retail structures in the entire world for no reason. So I asked around.
It turns out that this seems to be a permit-does-not-tell-the-whole-story story. Apple’s construction contractors may indeed have to remove the glass cube that sits over the entrance to the sunken 5th Ave location — but only because it’s a bit hard to do a massive store renovation when there’s a big glass cap on top of your easiest entrance/egress portal.
As far as I know, the plan was always to put the cube back on top when they were done — and that remains the plan. Whether they will alter it or improve it I do not know at this point. At one point Apple used glass from Beijing-based North Glass Safety Glass Co. to reduce the number of panes for a cleaner look, so they may do some gleaming of the cube this time around too.
I reached out to Apple for comment on this and they just came back with the same statement they had when they announced the renovations:

We look forward to creating an incredible new Apple Fifth Avenue, where our customers will enjoy new services and experiences in a much larger space. While construction is underway all 800 employees will serve our visitors from around the world at a fully-functional store next door at 767 Fifth Ave, also open 24 hours a day. We’d like to thank our customers and neighbors for their understanding as we complete the renovation.

So don’t count the cube out for good — though it may vámonos for a bit and then return.

Featured Image: James Leynse/Corbis via Getty Images
Tesla has settled a lawsuit it filed against Sterling Anderson, a former employee and past director of Autopilot. Anderson was a key leader of Tesla’s semi-automated highway driving features, prior to leaving the company to found his own self-driving startup, Aurora, along with former Google self-driving car project CTO Chris Urmson.
The settlement clears Aurora and Anderson of wrongdoing, and includes a one-time “reimbursement” payment of $100,000 from the startup to Tesla. Tesla had accused Aurora and Anderson of poaching Tesla employees for the new venture, and the settlement also includes a provision whereby Aurora agreed not to actively pursue luring anyone away from Tesla, either full-time employees or contractors, until at least next February.
Tesla will also be conducting an “audit” of Aurora devices and material, run by a neutral third-party, to ensure no Tesla confidential info resides on Aurora-related devices and accounts.
This is actually a lot of what Tesla was looking for from an ultimate ruling in the case, per their original filing against Anderson, Aurora and Urmson. Tesla provided, through a spokesperson, the following statement to TechCrunch regarding the settlement:
Tesla’s lawsuit against Mr. Anderson, Mr. Urmson, and Aurora has been settled. Under the settlement, Mr. Anderson’s contractual obligations to Tesla will remain in place and will also be extended to Aurora, with additional specific protections being added to ensure there are no further violations. The settlement also establishes a process to allow Tesla to recover all of the proprietary information that was taken from the company, and it provides for Aurora’s computer systems to be subject to ongoing audits to monitor for any improper retention or use of Tesla’s property. Finally, $100,000 was paid to Tesla.
Sterling Anderson provided TechCrunch with this short emailed statement, but also wrote up his thoughts on what this means for his company and self-driving tech in general on Medium:


We started Aurora to accelerate the industry. Frivolous lawsuits only slow it down. Today, less than three months after filing (and before we were permitted to file a response) Tesla has withdrawn their claims, without damages, without attorney’s fees, and without any finding of wrongdoing. We have even agreed to reimburse the cost of a future audit to demonstrate the integrity of Aurora’s intellectual property.


Anderson’s note offers additional context regarding that $100,000 payment made by Aurora to Tesla: It covers the cost of a forensic audit, which Anderson is clearly very confident Aurora and its employees will easily pass.
More and more devices, from smart dash cams to head-up displays to Bluetooth-enabled diagnostics dongles, are looking to tap your car’s built-in diagnostic (or OBD-II) port for power and data.
The problem: this port… really wasn’t built to be used like that. Primarily designed to be tapped occasionally to better explain that oh-so-vague “Check Engine” light, it certainly wasn’t built to be connected to an always-attached device blasting out all sorts of different wireless protocols whenever the vehicle is on.
Example A: Researchers at Argus Security have found a flaw in a commercially available Bluetooth-enabled diagnostics dongle that let them turn off the vehicle’s engine while the car was moving, as long as they were within Bluetooth range.
The dongle in question is the Bosch Drivelog Connect, a device meant to shed insight on your driving behaviors and send diagnostic information to a companion smartphone app via Bluetooth. To Bosch’s credit, the company began addressing the issue within a day of being alerted, and publicly acknowledged and outlined their fix for the issue here.
“Who cares? I’ve never even heard of that device,” you might say.
It’s a fair stance, but one that assumes that this is the only device that has this sort of flaw. Similar flaws have been found in other devices. Meanwhile, more gadgets are tapping the OBD-II port than ever — I see a new one hit my inbox every few weeks. Many of the ones I check out have obvious user-facing bugs… so it’s probably safe to assume that all the workings behind the scenes aren’t exactly flawless.
So do you need to go rip that shiny new dash cam or smart display out of your car? Probably not — but be mindful of the attack vector you’re introducing to the 4,000-pound metal box you’re cruising around in. It’s the owner’s responsibility to stay up to date on reports regarding the device’s security, and to keep the device itself up to date (a lot of these things are easy to set up and then completely forget).
More crucially, it’s up to the device makers to test the hell out of their devices, hire external firms to try to crack them and patch bugs as quickly as they responsibly can. Consider building a “red alert” notice/mandatory update into apps for the worst stuff.
If you’re interested in the specifics of the research on the aforementioned dongle, Argus has a deep breakdown of their methodology here, from disassembling the companion app, to poking holes in the device’s security, to actually shutting down one of their own vehicles while it was in motion.
EBay reported first-quarter results after the bell on Wednesday.
The company posted an adjusted 49 cents per share, when Wall Street was forecasting 48 cents. EBay reported revenue of $2.2 billion, when analysts were expecting roughly the same at $2.21 billion. This is up 4 percent from last year.
Gross merchandise volume, a measure of the total sales transactions of the platform, came in at $20.9 billion, slightly beneath the $21.06 billion analysts had been expecting.
EBay is facing a 24.6 percent annual decline in its operating margins, because it is spending more on marketing to help grow its business, amid growing competition in e-commerce.
“The first quarter was a strong start to the year with accelerating growth in active buyers, revenue and our core U.S. business,” said Devin Wenig, president and CEO of eBay Inc., in a statement. “We are on the right path as we continue to evolve our shopping platform for consumers, leverage our technology advantages and market a sharpened eBay brand globally.”
Sports and concert ticket platform StubHub brought in $210 million in revenue, up 18 percent year-over-year, representing a growing portion of eBay’s business.
EBay updated its guidance for the year, expecting between $9.3 billion and $9.5 billion in revenue for 2017.
The company also repurchased $350 million in common stock.
EBay recently announced a strategic partnership with Flipkart, a large e-commerce platform in India. The company made a $500 million cash investment and is selling its eBay.in business to Flipkart. Microsoft and Tencent also added to the investment in Flipkart.
Shares closed Wednesday at $33.85, and went down about 3 percent in initial after hours trading. EBay shares have gone up 34 percent in the past year.
The company split from PayPal in 2015.
Advertisement		



Keeping a forest healthy often means deciding what to do tree by tree and acre by acre. That’s easy enough with a square mile of it, but what about a thousand? The Nature Conservancy is working on tools that will make it easy for park services, fire control and conservationists to keep entire forests alive, thriving and — you know, not on fire.
Forest management is a complicated industry, but for our purposes what matters is that this part is done in a pretty old-school way.

Related Articles
WTF is lidar?
John Deere partners with Kespry to bring drones and aerial data to construction and forestry
Berkeley project tests tracking imperiled forests with 3D multispectral drone imaging
One approach has someone walking through the forest, scoping things out, and using a can of spray paint to designate certain trees one by one to be cut down or left behind. Nice to have a personal touch, but not exactly quick to execute.
Another has an expert marking up a map with “prescriptions” for each area: what types of trees to cut, what to leave, etc. But not only does this lack the detail of the previous approach, but the loggers who are to cut the trees will move more slowly as they rely on their discretion to determine what fits the prescription’s bill, or argue over which zone they’re in.
Here’s a situation where technology actually can come to the rescue. Neil Chapman at Nature Conservancy is leading a project that aims to make this part of forestry simpler, cheaper and faster. And with the devastation caused by wildfires recently, it’s not merely a question of healthy forests any more, but of preventing serious disasters.
Cutting delays
“Northern Arizona is home to the largest continuous Ponderosa pine forest in the country, and we’ve had a million acres of it burn up in catastrophic wildfires over the last 15 years,” said Chapman in an interview with TechCrunch.
Workers marking trees on their tablets in the field.
“Forestry practices need to be scaled up to deal with the problem. But they do not have the time or the money to be painting the trees on 50,000 acres a year. So we said, there has to be something we can design that will let forestry increase that pace, while still relying on boots on the ground.”
The resulting Digital Restoration Guide combines the directness of painting with the scalability of prescription.
Essentially, a forestry worker will walk (or ATV) around as before observing the forest directly. “But instead of having a paint can, they have a tablet in their hands,” said Chapman.
They can note the locations of individual trees or groups of them with GPS coordinates, but they don’t need to tag every one. Instead, after getting the gist of an area, they can make a little polygon on the tablet’s map that has all the details.
This data can be adjusted after the fact, archived and sent to harvesters, who can consult it from an in-cab tablet. (You can see the app in the image at top.)
Not only are they given more specific instructions and better granularity, but the tablet will also record the exact location, time and diameter (among other things) of felled trees. This saves time on the back end — much less paperwork — and lets harvesters track progress more easily, to boot.

This is important, Chapman said, because the forestry service has more complex guidelines regarding restoration and harvesting, more so than city or county authorities, which have comparatively small and homogeneous forests to manage.
Tech among the trees
A pilot deployment on 327 acres found that, compared with painting trees directly, the digital prescription method cost less than half as much and was five or six times faster. Productivity was similar to the old prescription methods, which Chapman portrayed as a victory.
“If in these early stages we can keep up with DxP on city and state land… Forestry is much more demanding,” he said, something that plays to digital prescription’s strengths. And that isn’t even taking into account the considerable benefits of the workflow in tracking and ease of use.
“After the markers go through, our staff is able to calculate the size, interspace, tree numbers… in the past they used to have to go out and take samples.”
They have had to modify the interface and hardware in response to feedback, for instance upping the power of the tablets.
“It turned out some of the maps were pushing the limit of the processor speed on the tablets we were using. Loggers were zooming in and out of a 300-megabyte image and it wasn’t going fast enough,” Chapman said. “It’s better now. I mean, you can’t be sitting there in your cab waiting for an image to render.”
Lidar and drones, perennial favorites when it comes to crossing over between the digital and real worlds, are also in play.



lidartrees_3




lidartrees_2




lidartrees_1




 View Slideshow


Previous
Next
Exit


“We’ve been looking into how to use lidar for the planning and monitoring stages,” he said. “Normally we’d have to go out and do time-consuming ground truthing. Using lidar or structure from motion [another 3D imaging technique], if we have images of 50,000 acres, then images after we cut those acres, we don’t need to go out there and use ground data.”
Fixed-wing and multirotor UAVs are in the mix, the former for larger surveying missions and the latter for monitoring smaller areas and rapid ground truth.
The pilot studies impressed the Forest Service enough that the tech has been okayed for use on 5,000 acres in the Coconino National Forest and 3,800 acres in Kaibab National forest; it’s part of the ongoing Four Forest Restoration Initiative. The former has already been mapped and the test will be the deployment of the enhanced harvesting teams to the areas designated using the new tools.
If this catches on, and it really ought to, it could drastically improve the efficiency of the rangers and loggers who care for our forests. You can follow the project’s progress over at Nature Conservancy’s site, or at Arizona’s 4FRI page.

Featured Image: Mark Skalny / The Nature Conservancy


I started going to therapy about five years ago, and it was quite possibly the best decision I ever made. But at times, it was difficult to determine how much progress I was making on a week-to-week or even month-to-month basis.
Kip seeks to change that by connecting its users with qualified therapists and helping them track outcomes over time. By combining in-person therapy with a mobile app that allows patients to provide feedback on a day-to-day and week-to-week basis, the company believes it can improve the process for patients and therapists.
I spent much of the last several years doing a traditional form of talk therapy, which helped to work through relationship and work-related issues. But it took years of weekly sessions to unspool my personal history and determine how events in the past would affect how I react to current situations and interact with others, and to adjust my thinking around them.
In contrast, Kip is focused on evidence-based strategies like cognitive-behavioral therapy (CBT) and acceptance and commitment therapy (ACT), where patients work toward specific goals and outcomes can be tracked over time.
“We’re making therapy better because we’re giving therapists more data,” Kip co-founder Erin Frey told me. “We saw that in order to make real changes in the process, we needed to change things from the ground up.”
To figure out how well a therapist’s approach is working, Kip provides patients with a mobile app through which they provide daily and weekly updates on their progress. That data gets shared with therapists, who can use it to adjust course as necessary.
As someone who is seeking to overcome a certain amount of anxiety and depression — and really, what human isn’t dealing with some amount of anxiety or depression — I answer a series of questions each week that tackle how much and how often those feelings impacted me over the previous several days.
There’s also a daily questionnaire that just asks for my general mood, through which I can give an update on any major happenings on a day-to-day basis. And the system is customizable, allowing therapists to track other aspects of a patient’s life. For example: I’m trying to reduce my caffeine intake, so the app asks me to input how much coffee I’ve had over the course of a day.
Generally speaking, progress is never linear, but by tracking this data over time, Kip can create a trend line for a person’s well-being over time. “Therapists are professional debuggers of your brain… The more info they have, the more they can talk about and the better they can guide a session,” Frey said.
The tools they provide to therapists go beyond just the patient’s app and the data it collects. In addition to providing a platform for tracking patient data, it also provides a place for therapists to add their own notes over time.
“One of the reasons quality is so variable is that therapists don’t have easy tools to track outcomes,” Kip co-founder Ti Zhao told me. The belief is that doing so will make therapists more efficient with their time and help them to serve more clients better.
Mental health is a space that more startups are becoming interested in, and there are already a number of mobile-only therapy apps out there. Most aim to connect people with therapists they can text or do video sessions with, enabling therapists to serve more patients and allowing patients to have more active communication with their therapists.
Kip isn’t seeking to replace or supplant in-person therapy sessions with its app. As Frey points out, there are non-verbal cues and mannerisms therapists rely on while assessing patients that are difficult to pick up on through video chats and impossible to see in text-only interactions.
That said, Kip does allow users to share their thoughts with their therapist in-between sessions, and allows therapists to respond. It also is a way for patients to note things that they’d like to talk about the next time they meet their therapists. After all, the recency bias of “what happened today or yesterday” can too often consume more time in therapy sessions than more significant events that happened earlier in the week and might not be top of mind.
Kip is currently focused on serving patients in the Bay Area, and at $165 per session it’s not cheap. The company is also sidestepping a lot of the headaches that come with accepting insurance and connecting patients with therapists that get paid through the platform. The hope, though, is that as it grows over time the company will be able to show that its therapy is more efficient than methods using less data.
Planned Parenthood has been threatened repeatedly with blockage of access in several states since Trump became our 45th president. But it also, as a consequence, has received a serious spike in donations (40 times its normal rate, according to the Guardian). The organization’s leaders are now looking to 500 Startups’ seed program to help them capitalize on the recent surge and harness technology to help further the momentum.
500 will donate $100,000 to the growing trove Planned Parenthood has already received since Trump took office, as well as kick off a hackathon for the organization. Planned Parenthood team members will also receive mentorship for its period-tracking app Spot On to help them find ways to improve the product and grow the user base.
The American Civil Liberties Union did something similar this year, joining Y Combinator’s winter batch to gain mentorship and network with some of the Valley’s most powerful allies in what is being called “The Resistance” — a growing progressive movement to confront the Trump presidency.
With YC and 500, we have an opportunity to set an example for the rest of the Valley and hopefully it inspires others to do the same.— Rebecca Woodcock, 500 StartupsThe sexual health nonprofit is part of this resistance movement now honing in on Silicon Valley’s top tech talent to help give people the resources and information they need without government interference.
“Spot On and the digital product lab are really a big part of that,” says Planned Parenthood’s senior director of its digital product lab Jenny Friedler, who tells TechCrunch the app has the potential to reach a much larger audience who can utilize the app for sexual health information. “For us, the opportunity with 500 is thinking about growing audiences and 500 has experience particularly in growing audiences and reaching new audiences. It really helps us in huge ways on that promise of ‘care no matter what.'”
The growth work with 500 possibly comes at an advantageous time. President Trump signed legislation last week to cut off federal access to Planned Parenthood and other groups performing abortions, and several states have added bills to defund the organization, nullifying a measure taken by the Obama administration just two days before Trump took office to bar states from cutting off that same access to family planning clinics.


what a complete asshat. 🍑🎩 https://t.co/pnw3fWKD7H
— Dave McClure (@davemcclure) April 18, 2017



500 co-founder Dave McClure has also been a vocal adversary of Trump, particularly on immigration, and 500 partner Rebecca Woodcock informs TechCrunch Planned Parenthood is only the first of hopefully many other organizations she hopes to induct into the program and make a positive impact upon.
“With YC and 500, we have an opportunity to set an example for the rest of the Valley and hopefully it inspires others to do the same,” Woodcock told TechCrunch.
Microsoft acquired the popular mobile to do list application Wunderlist back in 2015, and now it’s preparing users for its eventual demise with the release of its new application “To-Do,” announced today. The new app was built by the team behind Wunderlist, and will bring in the favorite elements of that app in the months ahead, Microsoft says. The company also added that it won’t shut down Wunderlist until it’s confident that it has “incorporated the best of Wunderlist into To-Do.”
In case you’re hoping Wunderlist will get some sort of reprieve, Microsoft makes its forthcoming demise pretty clear. Stating its plans in black-and-white: “we will retire Wunderlist,” it says in a blog post.  
In the meantime, Microsoft is encouraging Wunderlist users to make the switch by offering an importer that will bring in your lists and to-dos from Wunderlist into To-Do, where those items will now be available in other Microsoft products, like Exchange and Outlook.

Microsoft’s plans for To-Do were previously leaked, when the company was found to be testing a new app, then under the codename Project Cheshire.
At the time of the leaks, that was a fairly bare bones to-do app that let users create lists, add items, set reminders, and sync lists across platforms. The only interesting feature was that it was able to offer suggestions of tasks to add to a list – something that has now transformed into To-Do’s “Intelligent Suggestions” feature.
According to Microsoft’s announcement, To-Do starts you off in a screen called “My Day” which offers a list of items that need to get done today. You can customize this list further by accessing the “Intelligent Suggestions” feature – available with a tap on the lightbulb icon – which will offer suggestions of things you may want to add to your list.

For example, if there was something you didn’t get done yesterday, but perhaps should have, that could appear as a task suggestion. As Microsoft explains it, you’ll also be able to review to-do’s from the day before as well as view what’s due and other upcoming tasks, via this feature.
More importantly – to Microsoft, at least – is that To-Do has been built to integrate with Microsoft Office. The app is built on Office 365, and its first integration is in Microsoft Outlook. Your Outlook Tasks will sync with To-Do, so you can access and manage them across your devices.
To-Do’s data is also encrypted in transit and at rest for added security. The Preview version of To-Do is available today for I.T. admins to enable through the Office 365 admin center, and is available on iPhone, Android, Windows and the web for consumers.

ZDNet clarified with Microsoft that the app is not just for Office 365 users, as the original blog post about the launch seemed to imply. Instead, anyone with a Microsoft account can use To-Do, even if they don’t have an Office 365 plan, the company confirmed.
The To-Do app is not ready at this point to meet the needs of all Wunderlist users, however. As many users realized, some platforms do not yet support To-Do, including Mac, iPad and Android tablet. List sharing is also not available. But Microsoft says these will roll out in time along with other integrations with Microsoft services.
A Microsoft employee in the comments section of the original blog post even offered some enthusiasm towards users’ requests for Amazon Alexa integrations, which could be interesting. And they noted that support for Work accounts would arrive on To-Do on the web in the coming weeks, and gave the timeframe towards the iPad app as the “coming months.”
Remember that scene in Minority Report where Tom Cruise’s character walks into a Gap and an AI voice asks him if he’s still enjoying the trousers he bought last week? That vision was dreamt up by MIT consultants for the film many years ago, and as of today it would be entirely possible to reproduce, given we all now walk around with smartphones which could be alerted in such a manner. There’s just a few snags. GPS, Bluetooth, NFC and Beacons are all technologies which have singularly failed to live up to the hype around hyper-location targeting. My inbox is daily filled with startups doing ‘in-store’ location targeting, with various flavours of Wifi, Bluetooth, you name it. None of them have interested me in the slightest. Until, that is, I met NewAer at the most recent SXSW.
In a demo area with, crucially, a bar, I slipped a small plastic disc into my pocket (a ‘physical cookie’ if you will) which — once loaded — magically contained my Facebook profile. As I walked around the room, I would be, without asking, presented with my favourite drink (G&T) and put into a queue for a side-demo of a VR experience just by hanging close by, instead of waiting in line. I could approach screens which would tell me if there were any other people from London in the room. I didn’t retrieve or open my phone once the whole time, and every experience was tailored to me. If I walked away from the area my data and profile disappeared from the screens.

But that wasn’t the greatest revelation. What was truly interesting to me was that I didn’t even need this little Beacon sitting in my pocket. I could have done the same thing with an app on my phone, which would allow me to set all my communication and privacy preferences, and which wouldn’t suck precious battery power away. That, to me, is the game changer. It also wouldn’t need me to download multiple apps for multiple locations.
Walking me through the experience was founder Dave Mathews. This entrepreneur should know about location-based apps and linked the physical world with online. He has in fact been championing creating a ‘physical cookie’ for some time. He pioneered the CueCat barcode reader which could link printed magazine articles to the Web back in 2000. It’s been a long journey, but it looks like he may now have cracked what could be a huge market going forward. He even wrote a story in 2012 as to why location-based apps have failed in the past.
For how else will the Walmarts and small retailers of this world compete against Amazon without a way to tailor their real-world retail environments to customer preferences? The applications don’t stop there, but let’s first explore how all this works.
NewAer has an app called Kiosk. Under the hood, this a WebKit-based browser with integrated Bluetooth Low Energy (BLE) detection built in. That means it can determine the range of nearby mobile devices and automatically change what is displayed on the screen. Mobile devices can be Android, iOS, or even fitness Wearables and iBeacons.
NewAer’s Kiosk app (less than 8MB big) then lets an iPad or maybe even an Apple TV act as a digital signage host and turns the iPhone into a client.
In reality, NewAer is far more likely to appear inside, say, an airline’s app to display your personal flight time on a nearby display in the lounge, of instance.
So far they’ve worked with multiple airlines on pilot projects to do just this such as American Airlines and Lufthansa.

What NewAer is tapping into an old idea left by the wayside by phone makers which used to be pretty interesting. It meant you could use your phone like a little server, broadcasting information. In the distant past Nokia had an app called Sensor which could broadcast a little web page about yourself to those nearby. It was almost like a hyper-location-based Tinder which could work inside in underground bar, far from 3G.
Today we have NFC for similar applications, but this technology is locked down by Apple for their payment system. NewAer can now open up this up by allowing Bluetooth to work like NFC.
At the demo, Mathews had the Kiosk app set up to receive data under one foot of distance for assigning guest’s Facebook profiles to the little circular iBeacon. Literally a small plastic circle. I could assign my Facebook ID to this bit of plastic and walk around the room trying out various applications. The best part, of course, was having my ID signed to my favourite drink at the bar. NFC can’t do this but Bluetooth can.
Where it gets really interesting is when you make NewAer Kiosk work on a smartphone to turn it into an iBeacon. That means you could either ask your users to download an application or have the NewAer SDK embedded inside an existing application. Developers can download the SDK for free at ProximityPlatform online or develop their own web interactions after downloading Kiosk in the iTunes store. NewAer acts as an iBeacon that can wake up a mobile phone, even when the app is closed by the user. Kiosk runs on an iPad, the 4th Gen Apple TV and Raspberry Pi 3 to drive digital signage inside of spaces. Its investors include Intel Capital and Telekom Ventures.
The disruption NewAer presages could be transformational. Right now Apple has iBeacon and Google has Eddystone. Dozens of companies make beacons which are $15-33 devices built on that ecosystem. Both of these competitors require those beacons to be placed in stores and both wake up the user phone – effectively spamming them. The whole area has more or less failed.
Turning all this into a simple, free SDK (not requiring $15-33!) inside an app which does not spam the user and allows them to tailor the experience would utterly disrupt how this technology could be applied and literally set it free from physical beacons.
Imagine seeing monitors and screens that are already on the walls of airports and malls come to life for you with relevant information (gate and time, or special offers based on your personal preferences) or an experience like Amazon gives you, but in the real, physical world, just like in Minority Report. But this time it doesn’t use cameras or biometrics, or reading your iris and you can opt out of any experience before, during or after within the applications which contain NewAer’s SDK.
Most observers in tech would agree that iBeacon is dead. Nobody wanted to download an application for every retail store, and the beacons themselves either fell off the walls or the batteries died. They didn’t protect privacy, spammed users and even the Apple store didn’t have a positive interaction with them.
As NewAer hints, the future of mobile will be an “agent” doing things for you once you set a goal. Like “find me a car2go” or “send an Uber self driving car to me”. This peer-to-peer technology will make those vehicles personalized to us when they approach us. Or screens we approach. The point is that in the future people won’t need to look down at their phone.
Instead they can let those things around us “greet us” with a “digital wink” or a message.
Here comes Minority Report…
Facebook’s augmented reality future may be taking the form of selfie filters today, but in the future, the company wants to let you interact with the world only by using your brain.
Regina Dugan, who leads Facebook’s Building 8 group, gave a remarkable marketing spiel on the company’s efforts in shaping the future of human-computer interaction and imagining a future where you can control AR glasses with the brain.
During the F8 keynote, she urged the audience to imagine: “What if you could type with your brain?”
Details were relatively scant as to what this would really look like, though a Stanford University experiment Dugan referenced relied on “an array of electrodes the size of a pea” implanted inside the subject’s brain. This obviously initially sounds pretty horrifying for a company that has had such an issue with privacy issues; Dugan made efforts to allay future fears by saying that these devices couldn’t read your silent thoughts, but instead allowed you to control a “brain mouse” that would one day allow you to type up to 100 words per minute.
Dugan says that “no one has the right” to decode your silent thoughts, but the fact that’s even something that has to be said says something scary about where technology is headed. Oculus has already dealt with some blowback for its Terms and Conditions, which give Facebook access to your movements and where you’re looking in VR, what these scandals look like in the future could be even more invasive.
The team at Building 8 has around 60 scientists working across disciplines to research this technology. There is an awful lot of hype in this space at the moment, despite the fact that most see the tech as decades down the road. It was recently reported that Tesla CEO Elon Musk is starting a similar brain interface startup called Neuralink focused, for now, on developing the capabilities of the brain.
When is this pipe dream going to be a reality? Understandably there’s not a launch date in site, but Dugan says the company hopes to show off a system in “a few years time.”
Twitter is considering localizing the storage of some of its Russian users’ personal data in order to comply with data localization laws, TechCrunch has confirmed.
The Moscow Times reported earlier today that Russian communications regulator Roskomnadzor has secured an agreement from Twitter to transfer Russian users’ data to local servers by mid-2018 — with the agency’s chief, Alexander Zharov, briefing press to say Twitter is currently “in the process of determining what information about Russian citizens and organizations in commercial relations with Twitter in Russia can be stored in the Russian Federation”.
Twitter declined to comment on the newspaper’s report, but a source familiar with the matter confirmed the report to us, saying Twitter is reviewing its compliance with the law, and may move some user data to servers located in the country. Currently the company stores no data in Russia.
Specifically, we’re told that Twitter is reviewing where it stores the data of Russian users who have a commercial relationship as advertisers on the platform. At this stage it remains a review. No guarantees have yet been given by Twitter that any Russian user data will be localized, according to our source.
The Russian law was passed in 2014 and came into effect in September 2015. So cracking down on foreign tech companies’ compliance does not appear to have been an especially accelerated priority for Russian authorities. Although, in recent times, the local federal executive body responsible for policing data and digital comms issues has pursued a legal route against LinkedIn to try to enforce compliance in its case. That culminated in the professional social network being blocked in Russia last November.
The data localization law is controversial, with the Russian government saying the legislation is a way to protect its citizens’ personal data, while critics claim it offers an easier route for the Russian government to access the data for itself.
Setting aside the controversy question, there’s also the issue of plain old uncertainty: A Q&A about the law on the Russian Telecoms Ministry’s own website concedes there’s legal uncertainty for companies about how to comply, and more so for foreign Internet companies with no physical presence in Russia.
Even so, some big tech firms have complied — including Apple and Google — while others such as Facebook and Twitter held out.
Last month Roskomnadzor continued its block of LinkedIn after the professional network continued to refuse to comply with the data localization law. So it’s possible the ongoing LinkedIn block may be concentrating minds at Twitter HQ, and encouraging the company to look for ways to offer some compliance concessions to the Russians to head off similar action.
It’s worth noting that Twitter as a rule does not require users to hand over a lot of personal data when they sign up to use the service — only an email address is required (although users can also provide more personal data voluntarily, such as their real name, a phone number and tag their location and tweets if they choose).
Users who advertise via Twitter may therefore be more obvious compliance targets for the law, given they will inevitably have to provide Twitter with more personal data than just an email address given they are also paying for advertising services.

Featured Image: Justin Sullivan/Getty Images
Today at F8, Facebook revealed it has a team of 60 engineers working on building a brain-computer interface that will let you type with just your mind without invasive implants. The team plans to use optical imaging to scan your brain a hundred times per second to detect you speaking silently in your head, and translate it into text.
Regina Dugan, the head of Facebook’s R&D division Building 8, explained to conference attendees that the goal is to eventually allow people to type at 100 words per minute, 5X faster than typing on a phone, with just your mind.
Eventually, brain-computer interfaces could let people control augmented reality and virtual reality experiences with their mind instead of a screen or controller. Facebook’s CEO and CTO teased these details of this “direct brain interface” technology over the last two days at F8.
Brain-Typing
“What if you could type directly from your brain?” Dugan asked. She showed a video of a paralyzed medical patient at Stanford who can type using their mind thanks to an implanted sensor. She went on to explain how Facebook wants to do this without surgical implants.
Building 8 only began working on the brain typing project six months ago, but it now is collaborating with UC San Francisco, UC Berkeley, Johns Hopkins Medicine, Johns Hopkins University’s Applied Physics Laboratory and Washington University School of Medicine in St. Louis. Researchers who specialize in machine learning for decoding speech and language, building optical neuroimaging systems with advanced spatial resolution and next-generation neural prosthetics are involved.
A Stanford patient can type with their mind via a surgical implant. Facebook wants to build a faster, non-invasive version
The plan is to eventually build non-implanted devices that can ship at scale. And to tamp down on the inevitable fear this research will inspire, Facebook tells me “This isn’t about decoding random thoughts. This is about decoding the words you’ve already decided to share by sending them to the speech center of your brain.” Facebook likened it to how you take lots of photos but only share some of them. Even with its device, Facebook says you’ll be able to think freely but only turn some thoughts into text.
Skin-Hearing
Meanwhile, Building 8 is working on a way for humans to hear through their skin. It’s been building prototypes of hardware and software that let your skin mimic the cochlea in your ear that translates sound into specific frequencies for your brain. This technology could let deaf people essentially “hear” by bypassing their ears.
A team of Facebook engineers was shown experimenting with hearing through skin using a system of actuators tuned to 16 frequency bands. A test subject was able to develop a vocabulary of nine words they could hear through their skin.

To underscore the gravity of Building 8s mind-reading technology, Dugan started her talk by saying she’s never seen something as powerful as the smartphone “that didn’t have unintended consequences.” She mentioned that we’d all be better off if we looked up from our phones every so often. But at the same time, she believes technology can foster empathy, education and global community.
Building 8’s Big Reveal
Facebook hired Dugan last year to lead its secretive new Building 8 research lab. She had previously run Google’s Advanced Technology And Products division, and was formerly a head of DARPA.
Facebook built a special Area 404 wing of its Menlo Park headquarters with tons of mechanical engineering equipment to help Dugan’s team quickly prototype new hardware. In December, it signed rapid collaboration deals with Stanford, Harvard, MIT and more to get academia’s assistance.
Yet until now, nobody really knew what Building 8 was…building. Business Insider had reported on Building 8’s job listings and that it might show off news at F8.
According to these job listings, Facebook is looking for a Brain-Computer Interface Engineer “who will be responsible for working on a 2-year B8 project focused on developing advanced BCI technologies.” Responsibilities include “Application of machine learning methods, including encoding and decoding models, to neuroimaging and electrophysiological data.” It’s also looking for a Neural Imaging Engineer who will be “focused on developing novel non-invasive neuroimaging technologies” who will “Design and evaluate novel neural imaging methods based on optical, RF, ultrasound, or other entirely non-invasive approaches.”
Elon Musk has been developing his own startup called Neuralink for creating brain interfaces.
Facebook Building 8 R&D division head Regina Dugan
 
Facebook has built hardware before to mixed success. It made an Android phone with HTC called the First to host its Facebook Home operating system. That flopped. Since then, Facebook proper has turned its attention away from consumer gadgetry and toward connectivity. It’s built the Terragraph Wi-Fi nodes, Project ARIES antenna, Aquila solar-powered drone and its own connectivity-beaming satellite from its internet access initiative — though that blew up on the launch pad when the SpaceX vehicle carrying it exploded.
Facebook has built and open sourced its Surround 360 camera. As for back-end infrastructure, it’s developed an open-rack network switch called Wedge, the Open Vault for storage, plus sensors for the Telecom Infra Project’s OpenCellular platform. And finally, through its acquisition of Oculus, Facebook has built wired and mobile virtual reality headsets.
Facebook’s Area 404 hardware lab contains tons of mechanical engineering and prototyping equipment
But as Facebook grows, it has the resources and talent to try new approaches in hardware. With over 1.8 billion users connected to just its main Facebook app, the company has a massive funnel of potential guinea pigs for its experiments.
Today’s announcements are naturally unsettling. Hearing about a tiny startup developing these advanced technologies might have conjured images of governments or coporate conglomerates one day reading our mind to detect thought crime, like in 1984. Facebook’s scale makes that future feel more plausible, no matter how much Zuckerberg and Dugan try to position the company as benevolent and compassionate. The more Facebook can do to institute safe-guards, independent monitoring, and transparency around how brain-interface technology is built and tested, the more receptive it might find the public.

A week ago Facebook was being criticized as nothing but a Snapchat copycat that had stopped innovating. Today’s demos seemed design to dismantle that argument and keep top engineering talent knocking on its door.
“Do you want to work for the company who pioneered putting augmented reality dog ears on teens, or the one that pioneered typing with telepathy?” You don’t have to say anything. For Facebook, thinking might be enough.
From the stage of F8, Joaquin Quinonero, Facebook’s Director of Applied Machine Learning, described a new technique the company is using to improve the watching experience for 360 videos. The format is challenging to deliver because of its size, but Facebook is using machine learning to reduce the number of pixels that have to be rendered at any one time. By predicting where a viewer will look next, rendering priority can be given to that location  — particularly helpful for users with lower quality internet access.
The status quo for 360 videos is reactive rather than proactive rendering. Mike Coward, engineering director for Facebook’s VR video team echoed the frustration of users to me when he described the unpleasantness of turning your head in VR only to see a blurry scene.
One partial fix is to optimize compression. But teams at the company are already using machine learning to select across the thousand-plus compression techniques for individual snippets of video. The other way to reduce the streaming load is to just cut down on what you’re rendering. And rather than reduce quality across the board, Facebook’s approach improves resolution for exactly what you’re most likely to look at next.
Mike Coward, engineering director for Facebook’s VR video team
Step one was to use the resources of the company to monitor where people actually do look when watching 360 videos. Facebook’s VR video team created a heat-map that highlighted the most popular spots that users looked at within videos. From there, Facebook built a generative saliency map using a deep neural network. This model makes it possible to perform predictions on new videos that haven’t previously been watched or studied.
If a human were to be given the task of predicting where someone might look, they might study their natural environment and look for anomalies that could catch one’s interest — think birds or a car driving by.
Abstracting away to the neural net, the physical cars and birds cease to matter. Facebook’s model was trained on a massive corpus of videos to identify interesting subsets of a video frame. Coward told me that the model, when faced with a surfer in the ocean, is capable of picking selecting the surfer as most interesting, despite the fact that both are fast moving entities.
After implementing the prediction model, Facebook was able to increase resolution by 39 percent on VR devices. Aside from improving resolution and making 360 videos accessible to people without great network connections, the technology could some day make it possible to offer preemptive suggestions to creators on how to make videos more engaging.
Since its launch in 2013, Figure 1, a photo- and knowledge-sharing app for medical professionals, has focused on “traction” that is winning over new users and keeping them around. The app now boasts registered users in 190 countries, with three-quarters of U.S. med students using Figure 1. Today, the Toronto- and New York-based startup revealed how it has begun to generate revenue, namely adding sponsored content and polls to its platform.
Figure 1 co-founder and CEO Gregory Levey told TechCrunch, “Doctors are used to being spammed by pharma companies, medical device makers, clinical trials people and they hate it. Laymen spam them too, with stuff that’s just way below their level of expertise. They do, however, love to hear from other doctors. So when we thought about how to monetize our platform, we didn’t want to do targeted display ads or hit them with anything that didn’t feel like another valuable part of the platform.”
Figure 1 co-founders: Gregory Levey, Richard Penner and Joshua Landy.
What Figure 1 came up with is something they’re calling “peer-to-peer sponsored content.” The startup invited brands to sponsor programs where doctors teach other doctors on Figure 1 about something like a rare disease, a medical procedure or an interesting new application of medicine. The new sponsored content formats on Figure 1 include “Grand Rounds,” “Figure 1 on 1’s” and “Figure 1 Insights.”
In “Grand Rounds,” an institution highlights a procedure they’re known for, like a new application of robotics for eye surgery. With Figure 1 Insights the company polls verified healthcare professionals about a certain issue or trend. “Figure 1 on 1’s” are reminiscent of Reddit AMA’s, where users generate questions for a featured specialist and questions are voted up by other users. In one recent session, pediatric sub-specialist Christian Hendriksz, helped other physicians learn how to identify a rare disorder called Hunter syndrome in their patients.
A quick flip through the app shows that Figure 1 has worked with major Fortune 50 health brands as clients, including Shire, Novartis and the CDC Foundation. Figure 1 started out enabling HIPPA-compliant photo sharing between health professionals, namely so doctors could get diagnostic advice from peers or teach medical and nursing students. But Levey said the company is now aiming to become a “central nervous system,” or main networking platform, for all verified healthcare professionals.

Featured Image: figure1.com (IMAGE HAS BEEN MODIFIED)
On day two of Facebook’s F8 conference, Facebook’s CTO Mike Schroepfer showed off designs for two new 360 cameras that the company is going to help push to market. The x24, with 24 cameras, and its little brother the x6, with six cameras, can each capture in six degrees of freedom for more immersive 360 content. Facebook plans to license the designs of the two cameras to select commercial partners to get each to market later this year.
Prototyped in Facebook’s Area 404, the x24 combines the FLIR camera system with Facebook’s proprietary architecture. Being able to shoot in six degrees of freedom (6DoF) cuts out a lot of the work that would traditionally be required to create 360 videos where the watcher can tilt their head in all directions without sacrificing the believability of a given shot.

The conceptual idea, sometimes referred to as volumetric capture, has been heralded for some time as a major milestone for VR. Startups like Lytro have been betting on light fields to get the job done, while 8i has taken a software approach. Instead, Facebook is taking a sparse lens orientation approach that avoids the complex rigs all-together.
“Unfortunately, capturing full 6-DoF 360 videos requires more complex hardware setups like camera arrays or light-field cameras that are not affordable and easy to use for novice users,” a team of Adobe researchers said in a recent paper on the subject.
The benefit of capturing depth information at the pixel level is that it enables fun post-production video masking where a creator could swap out mountains in the background of a video for a beach instead.

These new cameras, building on the original Surround 360, also look fantastic. The old Surround seemed to draw inspiration from the spinning top at the end of Inception, but the x24 and x6’s smaller, simple spherical design is exactly the familiar and welcoming look you want from futuristic technology.
“Part of what we are doing with the ecosystem, and the camera itself, is giving these tools to content creators so they can start to develop this artistic language,” explained Brian Cabral, Facebook’s director of engineering.
Bootstrapping a community is hard work, but Facebook realizes that the success of everything, from News Feed 360 videos to the Oculus itself, depends on an ecosystem of content creators. To this avail, Facebook is partnering with post-production companies and VFX houses, including Adobe, Otoy, Foundry, Mettle, DXO, Here Be Dragons, Framestore, Magnopus and The Mill.
Remember the text message-based service on-demand company, Magic Assistant?
In a whirlwind two months after the service’s launch on Product Hunt, Magic went viral based on its claims to deliver anything; promptly raised a rumored $12 million from Sequoia Capital (with Sir Michael Moritz, KBE joining the board); and then went into hiding as it figured out an actual business plan.
The company emerged a year later with a premium pricing plan and more perspective on what their business actually can be… and then returned to relative obscurity and the basic blocking and tackling of business building.
Well, it’s back again — and this time with Slack!
The company has integrated its text-based, on-demand service-as-a-service into the enterprise messaging monster that is Slack.
A Slack integration isn’t all that special (almost everyone is doing it), but it did give us a chance to catch up with the Magic team and find out how things have been going.
According to them, the answer is “pretty well.”
For those of y’all who don’t remember the back story, Magic launched on Product Hunt in 2015 as a side project for the five Oberlin graduates (holler at your alma mater) who were in Y Combinator at the time working on Bettir, a blood pressure monitoring app.
When Magic took off, the team sidelined Bettir and began working full time on Magic. It took off like a rocket, but the initial business was in no way a guaranteed win.
As our own long-gone-but-not-forgotten co-editor in chief wrote at the time:

According to my Magic operator, between 9 and 13 percent of all Magic orders are delivered by Postmates (Magic founder and CEO Mike Chen tells me the company has not yet calculated that statistic). So Snapguide founder Daniel Raffel, who compared the delivery times of Postmates and Magic, is sort of defeating the purpose. For example, Raffel’s Magic lunch order was also delivered via Postmates, but Magic also uses other on-demand players like GrubHub and Eat24.
The model of taking a loss on orders doesn’t scale. Chen, who studied philosophy and computer science at Oberlin College, estimates that the company breaks even on 50 percent of orders, loses money on 25 percent and profits on 25 percent — which he says is breaking even overall. Operators are supposed to factor in the time they spend interacting with customers and vendors into the Magic charge.

The launch of the Magic Plus service solved that problem, when the company shifted its business model to provide a message-based service that can do anything for someone at a $100-per-hour fee.
Since the launch of that service, Magic has been working to reduce costs through a combination of artificial intelligence and human interactions. The company currently employs roughly 150 people full time to handle the orders that come in.
“In the beginning we thought it was going to be food deliveries,” Chen told me. “It’s become a replacement for a personal assistant or an executive assistant.”
The sticker price for that on-demand executive assistant has come down since the service’s launch in January 2016. Now, one need only a pay a measly $35 dollars an hour to get some mechanical turk or other factotum to do the work rather than hire an actual person to do it full time. Chen assures me that Magic is still profitable at that price.
“We have a positive margin on the transaction,” Chen tells me.
The evolution to a concentration on servicing businesses happened as customers began to use the service more frequently. “What was happening was that people would make personal requests on behalf of their businesses,” Chen said.
As it moves into more of a business service role, the company may find itself butting heads against office management services like Eden or Managed by Q.
It’s also a tacit acknowledgement of just how crowded services-for-services has become (and yes the ouroboros of the absurdity contained in the previous statement isn’t lost on me). Facebook has a messaging platform that can connect anyone to any company to provide services, Alfred will offer you a concierge for personal services.
If you’re willing to have the extension of a corporation listening to every word you say in your home, you can install a Google Home or an Amazon Echo and get them to deliver things to your door.
Screenshot of Magic’s own competitive analysis
Silicon Valley is filled to the brim with services companies offering to do things for users that they could pick up the phone and order for themselves, but in a four-hour-work-week world, who has the time for that?
Hulu has publicly said that its new live TV streaming service will launch sometime this spring, but the company is now telling staff internally that the launch date being targeted is the first week of May, sources tell TechCrunch. The launch will additionally coincide with the arrival of Hulu’s new user experience, shown off earlier this year at CES.
However, we understand that the “first week of May” is definitely considered a rolling target. Hulu doesn’t have to launch then, and may choose to push it back further in the month.
Despite the internal communication – which we’ve seen – claiming the “first week of May” launch, we’ve also heard that the chatter among employees is that consumers will likely get the service around mid-May. In addition, other sources familiar with Hulu’s launch plans have confirmed that mid-May is just as likely as earlier in the month. It could even end up being the third week.
In other words, “mid-May” doesn’t translate to a May 15th launch.
However, the month of May – in general – is definitely a go. That could be what many were guessing already given that  the publicly promised time frame “spring” sounds like an April or May launch. But spring actually ends on June 21st here in the U.S., even though many people think of June as being summer.
Hulu currently has a beta test underway, which is likely contributing to the launch date flexibility, we’d wager. Like all betas, the goal is to solicit feedback from early users as well as identify bugs, ahead of a public debut. Hulu could end up needing a little extra time to make changes as a result of beta feedback, which could push the date back from the first week to even the third.
At launch, Hulu will roll out a new look and feel that involves a more streamlined design that also focuses more on personalized recommendations instead of an onscreen TV Guide. For live TV subscribers, Hulu’s suggestions will offer a mix of live TV and on-demand content. These will be informed by both explicit actions – including telling Hulu about your interest when you launch the app for the first time – as well as implicit actions – like your browsing and viewing behavior.
But the addition of live streaming television is the most anticipated aspect to the launch.

Hulu today already offers a robust on-demand library of licensed content from network and studio partners, including TV shows, movies and its own original programming. You can choose to watch Hulu with ads, or ditch them for a few dollars more per month.
Its new live TV service will be an expansion on that, combining live broadcast TV, live broadcast TV on-demand content, plus Hulu’s licensed on-demand content and own original programming, all under one roof. You can think of it as something more akin to a mashup of Netflix and Sling, rather than just a competitor to Sling.

Hulu hasn’t officially confirmed pricing for its live TV service, having only said that it would be available for “under $40” per month. However, we heard from sources that it’s a $39.99 per month price point that Hulu is considering for its launch. The company is still trying to lower that further, but this is the number that’s floating around internally.
Also not entirely set in stone are prices for the upgrade add-ons, like unlimited streaming, a cloud DVR or a bundle of both. Sources familiar with the matter at Hulu confirmed earlier that an “under $20” bundle combining both unlimited streams and a cloud DVR was in the works. The core service will also offer some recording time – we’ve heard 50 hours – but users would not be able to fast-forward through ads or access expanded storage (up to 200 hours) if they didn’t upgrade to the DVR feature. (The DVR may be sold separately at $14.99, we’ve also heard. But we understand this pricing is not finalized, either.)

The cloud DVR will work like most – that is, “first in, first out,” when it comes to deleting old content to make room for newer recordings. It will also only record new episodes – not reruns – by default. However, users can explicitly tell it to record all episodes, or a specific rerun if they choose.
The lineup for Hulu’s live TV service is comparable, generally speaking, to rival streaming TV services like Sling TV, PlayStation Vue, YouTube TV, and DirectTV Now. Of course, there are variations between these offerings, but unless there’s a particular network or TV show you just can’t live without – and isn’t ever coming to Netflix – many viewers may make channel lineup a secondary concern over things like price, experience, performance, and cross-platform support.
Hulu has already publicly confirmed that it has deals with CBS, 21st Century Fox, and Disney which, combined, add 40 networks to its service, including broadcast networks CBS, ABC, and Fox.
It also has ESPN and Fox Sports, and other regional sports networks in several national markets, as well as host of cable TV stations, like A&E, History, Lifetime, LMN, FYI, Viceland, Disney Channel, Disney Jr., Disney XD, FreeForm, Fox News, Fox Business, Freeform, FX, FXX, FXM, Nat Geo, Nat Geo Wild, TNT, TBS, CNN, Cartoon Network, Adult Swim, truTV, Boomerang, Pop and Turner Classic Movies.

Hulu has not announced a launch date, but the messaging to staff is one of getting them ready for an early May launch.
Specifically, one internal employee communication stated that the new live TV service (code-named Curiosity) and the new user experience (code named Bowie) will be released “during the first week of May – get pumped!” However, other sources said that “first week” could turn into mid-May.
Employees were told the timing is confidential – and not to share it outside the company (oops!). It was being shared internally as part of Hulu’s launch readiness planning, which includes standard prep work like staff training, mock customer calls, getting staff familiar with the offerings, internal testing (dogfooding) and other agenda items.
Hulu declined to comment.
Confirming an earlier leak, the Amazon-owned live streaming service Twitch is today announcing an expanded lineup of subscription offerings, which introduces two new levels beyond the original $4.99 per month plan. Now, Twitch’s partnered content creators can offer $9.99 and $24.99 subscriptions that will give viewers additional ways to support their favorite creators.
The new subscriptions will be available as an opt-in beta program for the time being, Twitch says.
News of the new subscription offering had already been circulating thanks to a recent email sent out to Twitch partners.
In it, the company explained how the expanded tiers would work. In Twitch’s world, channels receive a certain number of emotes based on the number of paying subscribers they have, so when people upgrade to the $9.99/month or $24.99/month tiers, they’re basically counting as 2 subscribers or 6 subscribers, respectively. This then allows the Twitch emotes to be unlocked more quickly.

The company also tells us that the new options will also allow other ways for partners to reward and interact with their most passionate fans, including offering them the ability to send a custom message to the community upon first subscribing, and offering participation in the new $9.99 and $24.99 subscriber roles based within the Twitch App, if available.
Partners can also choose to give exclusive emotes to their higher-paying subscribers, Twitch noted.

The added tiers could easily become a viable source of increased revenue for Twitch, given that third-party reports have shown that longtime fans are already inclined to spend more money supporting their favorite creators compared with newcomers.
In addition to the beta launch of the added tiers, Twitch said that subscription gifting is also in the works. This would allow users to purchase a channel subscription as a gift, then give it to a non-subscribed users. The time frame for this launch is sometime later this year.
The subscription beta, meanwhile, will launch “very soon” Twitch says, and will roll out to new Partnered channels on a weekly basis. The new options will then be available universally across Partnered channels in the next several weeks.
Cruise has a new release in its video series of drives completed by its autonomous test vehicles in San Francisco. If you’ve lived in the city, you’ve likely seen one of these by now – the white Chevrolet Bolt EVs stand out, especially with their autonomous sensor suite. The vehicles are running their routes mostly in autonomous mode, racking up driverless miles driven and helping GM-owned Cruise improve its tech over time.
This new video is the third in Cruise’s series of videos that the company has released in which it shows a continuous chunk of unbroken autonomous driving time. This instalment focuses on a night-time ride through San Francisco, and covers an entire hour of driving. You won’t actually have to sit and watch for an entire hour, however; the video above is sped up 4x, and the one below is running at 10x regular speed, but both depict the entire hour in a continuous cut. One noteworthy moment you probably want to check out happens at the 6:20 mark in the video above.
The car basically covered the eastern half of San Francisco during its route, Cruise tells me, from SOMA, through downtown and across Nob Hill. Cruise’s tech is clearly growing in competence over time, and night driving is an especially challenging needle to thread for self-driving cars.

GM recently filed documents indicating plans to deploy as many as 300 vehicles across the country, including in Detroit, San Francisco, and Scottsdale, Arizona. Cruise already gets vehicles in those areas, and said last September that it had around 30 vehicles in its test pool at the time.
It’s no secret that Facebook is highly interested in bringing internet connectivity to more people — even in very remote areas where traditional technologies don’t typically work. To do this, the company has recently focused on its Aquila drone and many of the back-end radio technologies that are necessary for bringing wireless access to more users. Today, at its F8 developer conference, the company provided an update on the state of many of these projects.
The highlight here is probably the fact that Facebook’s millimeter-wave (MMW) radio technology, which can be used for drone-to-ground communications or for more traditional terrestrial applications, keeps getting better. Last year, the team was able to set up channels with data rates of up to 20 Gbps over about eight miles. That’s a lot of bandwidth, but as the company announced today, its MMW technology has now hit 80 Gbps.
More impressively, it’s also been able to establish a 16 Gbps link between a ground station and a small plane that was circling almost five miles away. That’s the first time Facebook has demonstrated that it can use this technology for its drone project, too, where it can be used as a backup to the optical system the company is developing simultaneously (which doesn’t work so well when it’s cloudy and foggy).

As Facebook’s director of its connectivity programs Yael Maguire writes in today’s announcement, this technology is part of what he describes as a “building block strategy.” The reason for this, he writes, is that there is no silver bullet for providing connectivity everywhere and that it will take the interplay of many technologies. “Rather than look for a one-size-fits-all solution, we are investing in a building block strategy — designing different technologies for specific use cases which are then used together with partners to create flexible and extensible networks,” Maguire writes.

In addition to these projects, Facebook also today announced that it is working on a tethered drone system that can hook into fiber lines, take off and then provide wireless connectivity from there. During his F8 keynote, Maguire noted that the company is working on this in order to provide connectivity during emergencies. Details about the project, however, remain sparse, though we expect Facebook will provide more information in the near future.
Facebook just invited outside developers to help it build an augmented reality content platform. Snapchat banned outside developers in 2015 and has never had a real platform.
Mark Zuckerberg knows he can’t anticipate everything Facebook users want, so he spent the last 10 years building APIs and viral channels for third-party app makers. Evan Spiegel seems to believe he alone can anticipate what Snapchat users want, so he’s spent the last 5 years curating limited selections of geofilters, Our Stories, Discover channels and augmented reality selfie filters.
Facebook has plenty of users to offer up from every demographic around the world, providing ample reason for developers of all styles to get on board its platform. Snap is desperately trying to hold on to its users as Facebook’s clones like Instagram Stories steal their attention, and it’s highly centralized around finicky American teens.
Facebook unveils AR Studio for allowing outside developers to contribute augmented reality experiences
These differences in history, management style and resources have suddenly come into focus with yesterday’s beta launch of Facebook’s augmented reality Camera Effects platform. It hopes developers will contribute entertaining face filters, overlaid information utilities, interactive games and psychedelic art for users to play with.
Previously, social networks were focused around users’ lives, their devices and their friends. Augmented reality makes social networks increasingly about the physical world around us.
And the world is a big, empty place if you’re trying to fill it with augmented reality by yourself.

Which is what Snapchat will have to try to do unless it rethinks its policies and approach. Back in 2014, prohibited unofficial third-party apps were popping up around Snapchat, offering to help you save people’s photos that were supposed to disappear. But without a formal platform, users logged into these other apps with their real Snapchat usernames and passwords.
Then one of those apps, Snapsaved, was breached, and reams of user credentials and surreptitiously stored content fell into the hands of hackers. Snap reiterated its ban on third-party apps, and told people it would shut down their accounts if they used them.
In 2015 a more reputable, venture-backed startup called Mindie was letting people add popular music soundtracks to their Snapchat Stories posts. Citing security concerns, not that it could eventually compete with native features, Snapchat shut down Mindie’s ability to post to Stories and reset the passwords of all its users.
Mindie let you post videos with soundtracks to Snapchat Stories until Snap shut it down
Currently, Snap’s terms of service declare “You will not use or develop any third-party applications that interact with the Services or other users’ content or information without our written consent.” Snap did not respond to requests for comment for this story before press time.
Snap does work with partners on the business side. They include Kenshoo for ads buying, LiveRamp for audience matching, Spredfast for ad-making tech and VaynerMedia for ad creative. But this program is much different from working with consumer-focused app and experience makers.
Instead of trying to build ways for consumer app developers to work with Snapchat, it shut them out. Facebook has had its own troubles with developers, pulling the rug out from some game companies when it shut down spammy viral channels in 2009. But since then, with initiatives like Operation Developer Love, it’s tried to strengthen its bonds with the dev community. It sees them as a way for Facebook to become entrenched as part of the basic internet infrastructure.
Facebook’s Camera Effects Platform examples
Now those relationships with developers could let Facebook offer thousands of augmented reality filters and content while Snapchat offers just dozens.
Without Facebook competing via it new platform, Snap’s highly curated style might have worked. That’s what led Snapchat from basic geofilters to acquiring Looksery to power its now iconic selfie lenses. It would have had time to home in on where the real value in AR is, but with killer AR experiences waiting to be discovered, there’s a race for a whole new arena of computing.
Snap will either need to embrace developers to help it dig, or pray that Spiegel strikes gold again by himself. Facebook already has its own mining town.

Featured Image: Bryce Durbin/TechCrunch
Yo dawg, I heard you like basketball, so we built an AR basketball game you can play while you’re at a basketball game.
Ok fine, this isn’t how the reigning NBA Champion Cleveland Cavaliers announced their new Augmented Reality game. But they should have.
Launching today, Deep in the Q (named after Cleveland’s Quicken Loans arena) is an AR basketball game launching just in time for playoffs. 
It’s pretty simple – the app opens to your camera, and once it recognizes a special trigger graphic it overlays an augmented reality basketball net.
A ball then appears which you can flick into the net. The AR tech is pretty good, letting you move your phone around and see the net (and shoot baskets) from all angles.
The game itself is really fun – the AR element makes it much more addicting than a 2D basketball game like the one Facebook recently snuck into messenger.
The Cavaliers plan to incorporate the app into their home playoff games by putting the graphic up on the main scoreboard during the game and letting fans shoot hoops from their seats. They’ll even give a prize to anyone who can make 10 shots in a row, which is definitely doable.
If you’re not at the stadium you can use their trigger graphic (shown below) to play at home. The game also recognizes the Bud Light logo as a trigger, so you can also play by just pointing your phone at a can or case of the beer. Since Bud Light is sponsoring the app you need to be 21 to play, and have to enter your birthday each time you restart the app, which a bit of a hassle.
The app was developed by YinzCam, a Pittsburgh-based app developer for sports teams. They’ve built apps for most of the teams in the NBA and NFL, as well as for events like the Super Bowl and NBA All Star Games.
You can download the app from the iOS App Store here, and use the trigger graphic below to play right in this post.
Uber has a new shareholder very different from its usual institutional backers: Axel Springer, the German media company that owns Business Insider, and Germany’s largest newspaper Bild, among other publications. Neither Uber nor the media giant are getting specific about how much money was invested, or exactly when, but Axel Springer did clarify to German tech news site t3n.de (via Handselblatt) that the nature of the investment wasn’t strategic – this was strictly a financial deal, as any traditional VC would make.
This isn’t the only investment of this type that Axel Springer has made in technology companies: It announced a stake in AirBnB in 2012, which was termed at the time as “very minor” in size. The Uber investment is thought to be along similar lines, according to the t3n.de report. A Springer spokesperson told The Wall Street Journal’s Friedrich Geiger that the amount was “minimal,” and also noted that the publishing company has actually made early-stage investments in around 100 companies.
Obviously, a publisher owning a stake in companies which will be covered within its publication is bound to raise eyebrows, which is likely why Axel Springer is downplaying the size of the stake, and bringing up its other similar financial arrangements. Of course, our parent company is apparently looking to merge with gigantic companies we cover all the time to form a monolithic media megacorporation, so what can you do.
We’re looking to track down the specific size of the Axel Springer stake in the ride hailing company, and will get back to you when we find out more.

Featured Image: STR/AFP/Getty Images
Nokia may not be a company you’ve thought about much since it sold its handset division to Microsoft in 2014, but since then, the company has invested most of its time into growing out its communication businesses across the globe. They’ve also been throwing some early efforts behind high-end VR capture through its oddly beautiful $40,000 OZO virtual reality camera.

Today, Nokia is delivering a major update to its “OZO Reality Platform” that gives producers the ability to capture, edit and live stream VR footage in a cohesive package.
For a good deal of those in the virtual reality filmmaking industry, every shoot represents a new chance to 3D-print a rig that holsters a half dozen DSLRs frankensteined together. Others looking to capture VR are less adventurous, and OZO is sold as a high-quality rig that works reliably out of the box. The company’s OZO brand is about more than just the camera, however, as it builds a suite of software tools to enable more intimate VR editing and more seamless VR live streaming.
The company has delivered some firmware updates to its camera, which it’s now calling OZO+, giving it some new image processing wits, as well as the ability to export depth maps so that those capturing in VR can begin to experiment with “mixed reality” storytelling. I demoed a gamified 360 video where I was able to shoot rockets at skateboarders in a recorded video; it’s early days for this stuff, but there’s no doubt that having depth information could be useful to an advertising platform where you attach a buy button to a car as it drives into the distance or for an item of clothing. This depth data is captured in the file format OZO shoots with and can be tooled directly in OZO Creator.
For many VR creators, there’s a lot of frustration surrounding the infrastructure needs of virtual reality. Cameras can capture in 8K, but bandwidth limitations make streaming those raw feeds pretty rough. Nokia’s OZO Live platform will be adapting a technology similar to Facebook’s adaptive streaming for live video that will render the area of the 360 orb you’re looking at in full resolution, while the rest of the stream slugs around at a lower resolution. This strategy dramatically reduces the load on viewers’ internet connections and allows OZO to highlight the high-quality 4K-per-eye video that they’re capturing in the first place.
The company is launching with a number of content partners to give it the upper hand as it looks to tackle North America and Asian markets.
360-degree video is a pretty new medium for creators and, while no solution is perfect, Nokia is working to craft a brand that’s a little more polished and a little less hacker than what’s already out there.
FADE IN:
EXT. BOHEMIAN GROVE – NIGHT
Two VCs are wearing feathered headdresses and leather breeches. One, Anton, is drinking Soylent 3.0 from a bag, the other, Brad, Chateau Margaux 2009 Balthazar from a bark cup. Another younger VC, Chase, crushes a Juicero with a golf club in the firelight.
ANTON:
He’s taking it really hard.
BRAD:
Who? What?
ANTON:
Chase over there. That’s the Juicero he’s Ubering right now. He dumped $45 million into that thing. He was sucked in by the glamour of juicing. And it bit him. It bit him like a dog.
BRAD:
Why is he so upset? I’ve been at my retreat in Thailand for the past year. Total media cleanse. Catch me up.
ANTON SIPS HIS SOYLENT AND THEN SPITS IT BACK OUT INTO THE GRASS AS EDM RISES OVER THE TREES.
ANTON:
Juicero is getting attacked in the press for being a ridiculous idea. But it’s not. It’s a juicing platform. You put a bag of juice in and the robot squeezes it out. It’s better juice. It’s healthier. It was run by a visionary but they don’t see that. They don’t understand.
Kleiner invested. Alphabet. Vast. These are smart people. They know where the puck is going, not where it’s been.
It was supposed to be different, you know? This whole thing. When I started in this world after slumming it at Harvard and Oxford, I thought I could change the world. I could give small companies a little money to make amazing things. You know who ruined this? The people. The journalists. All those dirty unwashed folks who don’t have an RV at Burning Man. The Juicero people promised us a juicing platform, JaaS. They promised meditation in a bag. And you know what? The people at Juicero delivered something magical – a bag of juice and a robot to squeeze it – but people didn’t want that. They want what they paid for. Do I ever get what I paid for? This Soylent is burning a hole through my guts but do I complain? No. It’s the future. I don’t have to eat anymore because I can’t hold down food.
Think about it, Brad. Those bastards at Bloomberg broke the juicing DRM and squeezed the bags by hand. Can you imagine?
BRAD:
Anton, you’re frothing.
ANTON:
That’s the Soylent. But it makes me mad, you know? We are serving up the future like flapjacks and these swine won’t take it. They want things that work, not cryptographically-secure cloud-based VR juicing platforms. I want to give them the good stuff but they want stuff that makes sense. We dumped $70 million into Juicero. You know why? Because of the future, that’s why. Did Steve Jobs look at the CD and say “Nah, that’s good.” No, he made the iPod. Did Lucas Duplan look at the credit card machine and say “Whatever, let me do some more bong rips.” No, he made Clinkle. And this is the same thing, Brad. It’s the same thing.
CHASE BEGINS HOWLING
BRAD:
So what do we do?
ANTON:
We keep building, Brad. We keep making. We keep pouring money down cool-sounding ratholes. Did you see what Zuck is doing with VR? Can you imagine? It’s like Club Penguin meets Second Life. It’s going to be a smash hit. I’m writing a check out of my own money and I’m wiring five billion from a family fund in the Cayman Islands. It will be the future. Everyone jacked into the Facebook feed, reading updates. Can you imagine? Can you imagine the value generated? I hear Time Magazine has burned down its entire newsroom and is only doing 360-degree videos of war zones now.
BRAD:
Anton, you’re bleeding.
ANTON:
I’m not bleeding, Brad. That’s juice. Being squeezed out of me. By the robotic hand of the market. These people don’t understand. And who suffers? Chase. Hasn’t he suffered enough? He didn’t get tickets to Coachella this year. Hasn’t the man suffered enough?
Can I have some of your wine?
BRAD:
No.
CHASE FALLS TO HIS KNEES, BEATEN.
FADE OUT.
SCENE.
In an early demo video, the Guardian LF1 bobs around in shallow water, a strange transparent cylinder trailed by cables and sporting a pair of fans underneath. A pair of metal spatula arms extend out front as it cautiously approaches an ornate lionfish in the dim water.
As it flanks the fish against a wall, the animal doesn’t appear to put up much fight. The whir of the gears give way to a vacuuming noise as the machine quickly sucks the fish inside. And with that, the robot has completed the sole task it was designed for: sucking up lionfish.
The ROV is the first device from Robots in Service of the Environment (RSE) a new non-profit formed by iRobot CEO Colin Angle and Science from Scientists founder Erika Angle.

“They’re big divers, and they were out in Bermuda about 18 months ago, on a scuba dive with some friends,” RSE executive director John Rizzi told TechCrunch. “On the dive, they came across lionfish, which is quite a big problem. During a break in the dive, they’re back up on the boat and one of the people said, ‘you’re in robotics, right? Can you build a robot to catch lionfish?’ ”
Native to the Indo-Pacific region, the beautiful fish have become an increasing invasive species around the world’s oceans, including, most problematically, the Atlantic. “Here in the Atlantic, they were accidentally introduced around 25 years ago, and they have no other predators,” says Rizzi. “They’re an apex predator. They have 18 poisonous spines on them. And they’re voracious eaters.”
The species are particularly problematic when they feed on smaller fish that play an important part in the ocean ecosystem by keeping reefs clean, Rizzi explains. They’re aggressive and they breed like crazy. They’re also nearly impossible to catch through traditional means like hooks and nets, as they tend to spend a lot time in caves.

Lionfish can be caught by spear fishers, though it’s not a particularly effective method, given their deeper water dwellings. The ROV takes advantage of the apex predator’s fearless nature by simple scooting up to the fish, stunning it with one of the front facing panels and then sucking it up. Each ‘bot is equipped to hold as many as 10 lionfish onboard before returning to the surface. As for what’s done with the poisonous barbed fish once on-board, well, apparently they’re actually pretty good eating.
RSE has delivered proof of the Guardian in action and is currently testing it in Bermuda, where Rizzi and team are navigating it around the waters in search of lionfish this week. The team has already received funding from organizations like the Schmidt Ocean Institute, run by Wendy and Eric Schmidt’s Schmidt family foundation, along with money from the Angles.
It’s also taking to Kickstarter this week to further fund the venture – the first of what it hopes will be many robots designed to creative positive environmental change.
Minutes ago, Sony announced the new Alpha 9 flagship with and a new G Master telephoto lens. The Alpha 9’s cherry on top is a new digital 35mm full-frame stacked 24.2MP CMOS sensor, with 20fps continuous shooting. It will be available next month for $4,500 in the United States and $5,299 in Canada.
In other words, this is the all-in-one camera dream for vloggers and professional photographers.



B0000751




B0000754




B0000747




B0000743




B0000758




B0000748




 View Slideshow


Previous
Next
Exit


The cherry on top of the Alpha 9 is a new digital 35mm full-frame stacked 24.2MP CMOS sensor. It sports insane 20 fps continuous shooting spec, 1/32,000 sec. shutter speed, 693 AF points with 93% coverage of the frame, 14-bit RAW support, full-frame 4K video capture and 60 fps AF/AE calculation — all with no blackout and vibration free shots for silent shooting. The usefulness of a feature like silent shooting varies from shooting animals without scaring them, to maintaining the professional atmosphere in a place like the White House.
On top of 5-axis in-body image stabilization, there’s added support for an Ethernet port and dual UHS-II SD card slots. Naturally, while the power consumption of the A9 has increased, so has the battery: a Z battery has 2.2x the capacity of the past generation A7R II flagship camera.



A9_SEL100400GMright_image-Large




ILCE-9_FE2470GM_right-Large




ILCE-9_SEL100400GM_side_image-Large




 View Slideshow


Previous
Next
Exit


A new G Master telephoto lens will debut in July, after the A9’s launch in May. It sports a 100-400mm zoom, at f/4.5-5.6 aperture and will be priced at $2,499 in the US and $3,399 in Canada.
Disrupt NY is right around the corner, and we are delighted to reveal the agenda for the conference, which returns to Manhattan this year. Tech luminaries, TechCrunch’s famed Startup Battlefield Competition, Disrupt after-parties and, for the first time ever, a live concert are on tap, and at the end of it all, one startup will take home $50,000 and the Disrupt Cup.
Derek Jeter and Jaymee Messler of The Players’ Tribune will discuss the future of the site and sports media. Facebook’s Fidji Simo will talk about how video leads the site’s content creation and what comes next. We have AngelList founder Naval Ravikant discussing changes in how investing is done. And author, famed World Chess Champion and political enthusiast Garry Kasparov will talk about his new book, “Deep Thinking: Where Machine Intelligence Ends and Human Creativity Begins.”
Incubus guitarist Michael Einziger is set to close the show on Wednesday, May 17th with a special musical presentation, featuring Pharrell Williams and Incubus, that will demonstrate the technology developed by his startup, MIXhalo. We’ll hear about what exciting things Instagram’s head of product, Kevin Weil, has in store for us and we’ll hear from the co-founder of Campaign Zero, Brittany Packnett, about how data is used in social movements. And, of course, there are 20 amazing young companies in Startup Battlefield that will compete to win the Disrupt Cup and $50,000.
So join us at Pier 36 for our inaugural Disrupt at the venue. You can buy tickets here, sign up your startup to exhibit here or participate in our Hackathon for a chance to win free tickets.
If you’re interested in future sponsorship opportunities, please contact our sponsorship team at sponsors@techcrunch.com. As always, we want to hear from you. Questions? Comments? Email us at tips@techcrunch.com.
Disrupt NY Agenda 2017
MONDAY, MAY 15
9:00 AM – 9:05 AM
Opening remarks: Matthew Panzarino
9:05 AM – 9:25 AM
Cameras, not keyboards with Facebook’s head of video Fidji Simo (Facebook)
9:25 AM – 9:45 AM
Direct messaging with Derek Jeter and Jaymee Messler of The Players’ Tribune
9:45 AM – 10:10 AM
Taking stock with Stuart Ellman (RRE Ventures), Maha Ibrahim (Canaan Partners) and Amish Jani (FirstMark Capital)
10:10 AM – 10:30 AM
Media is not dead and the NY Times is ONIT with Mark Thompson (NY Times)
10:30 AM – 10:50 AM
BREAK
10:50 AM – 11:10 AM
Coming soon!
11:10 AM – 11:30 AM
Resistance in the digital age with Brittany Packnett (Campaign Zero)
11:30 AM – 12:10 PM
Coming soon!
12:10 PM – 12:30 PM
Building silicon outside of the Valley Steve Case (Revolution Ventures)
12:30 PM – 1:30 PM
LUNCH
1:30 PM – 1:55 PM
Shopping in the age of Instagram: Brands with digital savvy with Tyler Haney (Outdoor Voices) and Emily Weiss (Glossier)
1:55 PM – 2:15 PM
The insatiable wanderlust of WeWork with Adam Neumann (WeWork)
2:15 PM – 2:35 PM
Surviving Trumpcare with Mario Schlosser (Oscar Health)
2:35 PM – 2:55 PM
Ford’s future focus with Raj Nair (Ford)
2:55 PM – 3:15 PM
BREAK
3:15 PM – 3:20 PM
How the Battlefield works with Anthony Ha
3:20 PM – 4:15 PMStartup Battlefield Competition: Session One
4:20 PM – 4:35 PM
Founder Spotlight: Liz Wessel (WayUp)
4:35 PM – 4:50 PM
Founder Spotlight: Daniel Schrieber (Lemonade)
4:50 PM – 5:05 PM
Founder Spotlight: Shivani Siroya (Tala)
5:05 PM – 6:05 PMStartup Battlefield Competition – Session Two
6:05 PM – 6:10 PM
WRAP
TUESDAY, MAY 16
9:00 AM – 9:05 AM
Opening Remarks: Matthew Panzarino
9:05 AM – 9:25 AM
The Story war with Instagram’s VP of Product Kevin Weil (Instagram)
9:25 AM – 9:45 AM
Clipping out cancer with Rachel Haurwitz (Cariboubio Biosciences)
9:45 AM – 10:05 AM
Making a modern motor company with Peter Rawlinson (Lucid Motors) and Jay Rogers (Local Motors)
10:05 AM – 10:30 AM
Who is digging the gig with Oisin Hanrahan (Handy) and Dan Teran (Managed by Q)
10:30 AM – 10:50 AM
BREAK
10:50 AM – 10:55 AM
How the Battlefield works with Anthony Ha
10:55 AM – 11:45 AMStartup Battlefield Competition: Session Three
11:45 AM – 12:45 PM
LUNCH
12:45 PM – 1:05 PM
Commission impossible: Keeping the internet free with FCC Commissioner Mignon Clyburn (Federal Communications Commission)
1:05 PM – 1:25 PM
Magic CRISPR robot arms with Paul Dabrowski (Synthego)
1:25 PM – 1:45 PM
Can inspiration be monetized? with Tim Kendall (Pinterest)
1:45 PM – 2:10 PM
Fire kicks: Shaking up the shoe market from retail to resale with Ryan Babenzien (Greats), Josh Luber (StockX) and John McPheters (Stadium Goods)
2:10 PM – 2:30 PM
Fireside chat with Michael Cagney (SoFi)
2:30 PM – 3:30 PMStartup Battlefield Competition: Session Four
3:30 PM – 3:50 PM
Alexa, play my song with Steve Boom (Amazon Music)
3:50 PM – 4:05 PM
BREAK
4:05 PM – 4:20 PM
Founder Spotlight: Michelle Goad (PS Dept)
4:20 PM – 4:35 PM
Founder Spotlight: Eric Kinariwala (Capsule)
4:35 PM – 4:50 PM
Founder Spotlight: Michael Jaconi (Button)
4:50 PM – 5:05 PM
Reinventing the news with Mike Allen (Axios)
5:05 PM – 5:30 PM
Home is where the profits are with Eddie Lim (Point) and Ryan Williams (Cadre)
5:30 PM – 5:50 PM
Defending against political hacks with General Keith Alexander (IronNet Cybersecurity)
5:50 PM – 6:00 PM
WRAP
WEDNESDAY, MAY 17
9:00 AM – 9:05 AM
Opening Remarks: Matthew Panzarino
9:05 AM – 9:25 AM
Coming soon!
9:25 AM – 9:45 AM
8.6 million followers can’t be wrong with Angie Nwandu (The Shade Room)
9:45 AM – 10:05 AM
Humanity’s next move: Garry Kasparov talks AI (author of Deep Thinking: Where Machine Intelligence Ends and Human Creativity Begins)
10:05 AM – 10:20 AMStartup Battlefield Alumni updates
10:20 AM – 10:35 AM
Passing the Disrupt Cup with Matthew Panzarino
10:35 AM -10:55 AM
BREAK
10:55 AM – 11:00 AM
How the Battlefield Final Competition works with Anthony Ha
11:00 AM – 12:30 PMStartup Battlefield Competition Finals
12:30 PM – 2:00 PM
LUNCH
2:00 PM – 2:20 PM
The unbundling of VC with Naval Ravikant (AngelList)
2:20 PM – 2:25 PM
Hackathon Highlights
2:25 PM – 2:45 PM
Living for the city with Stonly Baptiste (Urban Us), Brad Hargreaves (Common) and Shruti Merchant (HubHaus)
2:45 PM – 3:05 PMRodney Brooks (Rethink Robotics) on robots, AI and getting to Commander Data
3:05 PM – 3:30 PM
What to do about algorithm bias with Robyn Caplan (Data & Society), DJ Patil (Former U.S. Government) and Igor Perisic (LinkedIn)
3:30 PM – 3:45 PM
Founder Spotlight: Dug Song (Duo Security)
3:45 PM – 4:00 PM
Founder Spotlight: Caren Maio (Nestio)
4:00 PM – 4:15 PM
Founder Spotlight: Irving Fain (Bowery Farming)
4:15 PM – 4:30 PM
Founder Spotlight: Zahir Dossa (Function of Beauty)
4:20 PM – 5:00 PM
BREAK
5:00 PM – 5:30 PM
Technology reveal: Incubus guitarist Michael Einziger is set to close the show on Wednesday, May 17th with a special musical presentation, featuring Pharrell Williams and Incubus, that demoes the tech of his startup, MIXhalo.
5:30 PM – 5:45 PM
Closing Startup Battlefield Awards Ceremony
We can’t wait to see you there. You can get your Early Bird tickets until Friday, April 21st here.
Our sponsors help make Disrupt happen. If you are interested in learning more about sponsorship opportunities, please contact our sponsorship team by filling out this form.
As part of the NewTech Meetup we will be holding a very cool pitch-off at Oskar Blues’ The Oak Room at 1800 Pike Road in Longmont, Colo. It’s on Wednesday, April 19, 2017 starting at 6:00pm. The pitch-off will happen at about 7:30pm. You can RSVP here.
The companies pitching are Professor Beekums, Fringetime, TheChex, Matrix Analytics, Looplist, Oneroost, BuildingBrains, and Sibi.
The winner of the pitch-off gets a table at Disrupt New York and the second place company gets two tickets to Disrupt New York.
See you soon!
As the longest-serving director of the National Security Agency, Gen. Keith Alexander certainly knows a thing or two about cybersecurity and the threats companies face from sophisticated nation-state hackers. That’s why Alexander founded IronNet Cybersecurity in 2014 after retiring from his post at NSA.
In the three years since IronNet was founded, cybersecurity has become an issue of national importance. Alexander recently testified before the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence about Russia’s interference with the 2016 election, describing how propaganda was used during the campaign and giving advice on how the U.S. should counter these efforts.

Related Articles
An Interview with General Keith Alexander on cybersecurity, Snowden, and IronNet
Alexander also spoke about the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, a controversial law that authorizes certain surveillance programs and is up for reauthorization by Congress this year. “I think that’s the most important program that’s out there,” Alexander said of FISA.
At IronNet, Alexander focuses on developing technology to detect and alert on suspicious behavior on enterprise networks. He’s also working on intelligence sharing between industry and government, so that both parties can more quickly detect and react to network intrusions. IronNet has attracted significant interest from the VC community — so far, it’s raised more than $32 million.
Gen. Alexander joins an impressive list of speakers at TechCrunch Disrupt NY, which runs May 15 to May 17. You can find tickets here.
Sponsors make TechCrunch events possible. If you are interested in learning more about sponsorships with TechCrunch, shoot an email to sponsors@techcrunch.com.
For Microsoft, the last year or so has been all about infusing its various products with “intelligence.” Those smarts may come in the form of advanced analytics or deep learning, but the main point here is that the company believes these techniques can solve major pain points for its customers, whether they are PowerPoint users or SQL Server admins. Today, at its Data Amp event, the company is launching a number of updates that make it easier for developers who use Microsoft’s tools to bring “intelligence” to their own apps.
At today’s event, Microsoft is launching updates to the preview of SQL Server 2017 (technically, this is the Community Technology Preview 2.0), which will likely become generally available later this year (no surprise, given its name), as well as its Cognitive Services. SQL Server 2017, it’s worth noting, is also the first version to run on Linux and in Docker containers.
As Microsoft’s Rohan Kumar, the company’s general manager for database systems, told me, the basics of database management have essentially been commoditized now. What users are looking for now is better ways to get value out of the data they are storing. What Microsoft’s partners were telling it was that it was still too hard to build intelligence into applications and that they wanted more of that intelligence to be directly available in the database.
So with today’s update, Microsoft announced that it is building support for Python right into SQL Server 2017. That may sound like a minor thing at first, but the vast majority of machine learning frameworks rely on Python. Making it easier to access Python scripts right from the database means it’s also easier to use machine learning techniques on this data instead of having to first move it out of the database, let it go stale and then try to build machine learning models on it.
Indeed, it’s this idea of bringing data and AI closer together that’s driving many of these decisions. As Joseph Sirosh, Microsoft’s corporate vice president for its Data Group, noted during a small press event in Seattle earlier this month, intelligence should “reside right next to the data. It should reside in databases. It should reside in applications that generate data. So bringing intelligence to our data platforms is an incredibly important part of our strategy.”
The advantage of bringing the intelligence closer to the data is pretty obvious in that you can run applications much faster when there’s less latency involved — and that’s especially true given that the data sets used for machine learning tend to be extremely large.
Besides the added support for Python, Microsoft also is improving its existing support for R — a language that’s extremely popular with data scientists — in SQL Server 2017. And as part of this, the company is adding pre-trained neural networks for sentiment analysis and image featurization right into R Server.
To make SQL Server 2017 more useful for more applications, the company also is adding new features for working with graph data to its database. This, the company says, will make it easier for developers to represent the hierarchies and relationships that already typically exist in these relational databases without having to go to a specialized third-party graph database.
Microsoft Cognitive Services, which makes pre-packaged machine learning models available to developers, also is getting an update today. That’s a minor update, though, and mostly focuses on the launch of the Face API, Computer Vision API and Content Moderator into general availability.
Other updates announced today include the general availability of the Azure Analysis Services and new templates for Cortana Intelligence Services that offer pre-built solutions for quality assurance and personalized offers.
All of these new features, though, are mostly a manifestation of the company’s overall vision to bring data and the intelligence to analyze it closer together.
Last year, TechCrunch launched CrunchMatch – a networking tool designed to connect like-minded founders and investors at TechCrunch Disrupt events. We started small in New York last year with just 88 meetings and scaled to hundreds by the end of the year. We learned a lot along the way and realized that we needed a more flexible, self-service platform to scale with demand. Welcome CrunchMatch 2.0!
The new system asks investors and founders to enter basic information about their investment interests and startup profiles. The new CrunchMatch algorithm sorts through the data to suggest matches, which investors and founders can review and accept or decline. Then, you can set an agreeable time for your meeting. The goal is to improve the odds that investors and entrepreneurs find a promising match. The program is free to all investors and Startup Alley exhibitors at Disrupt.If you’ve participated in the program before, you may be relieved to know that we have automated scheduling and ditched the black curtained booth in favor of a well-lit, open lounge space.Signing up for CrunchMatch 2.0 is easy. If you are an investor, a CrunchMatch invitation will follow shortly after registering for Disrupt. Founders who register for a Startup Alley exhibitor package will receive a similar invitation. Then the magic starts to happen. If you want to connect online or in person before the show – be our guest – but we expect most matches will connect for the first time at the CrunchMatch Lounge at TechCrunch Disrupt New York.To participate, you’ll have to snag a Disrupt ticket, and you can do that on the TechCrunch Event page. If you have additional questions, send us an email at crunchmatch@techcrunch.com.TechCrunch Disrupt NY 2017 will take place May 15-17th at Pier 36 in Manhattan, New York City. Looking forward to seeing you there!
Reliable iPhone leaker Sonny Dickson just shared new design schematics for the upcoming iPhone. The most interesting thing is that the leak clearly shows a spot on the rear of the device for the Touch ID sensor.
Rumor has it that Apple is going to release three new devices in September — upgraded versions of the iPhone 7 with better specs, and a brand new phone with a new form factor. This leak shows this top-of-the-line phone.


iPhone 8 looks to be taking a new direction pic.twitter.com/mG19bcDYiC
— Sonny Dickson (@SonnyDickson) April 19, 2017



It features two cameras on the back. This time, they could be oriented vertically instead of horizontally. This isn’t really groundbreaking.
Aesthetically, Apple is moving back to an industrial design with sharp angles. It looks like the case of the device could be a single piece of aluminum, more like the iPhone SE.
It’s hard to see the antenna lines on these schematics. But Apple isn’t relying on glass panels (unlike on the iPhone SE). At the bottom of the device, you can clearly see the Lightning port and no headphone jack.
More interestingly, the dimensions of the device show that this iPhone could be half a centimeter wider and a centimeter taller when you compare it to the iPhone 7. Except for the top part of device with the selfie camera and speaker grill, Apple wants to replace the front of the device with a giant screen. The display will be taller but more or less as wide as the one on the iPhone 7. I believe taller screens are the future of smartphones.
That’s why Apple had to do something about the Touch ID sensor. The company wants to embed the Touch ID sensor into the screen. But this may not be ready for prime time just yet. Just like most Android phones out there, Apple could move its finger print sensor to the rear of the device.
This isn’t as elegant as having everything on the front side if you want to use your phone while it’s in a dock or on a table. Based on my experience with recent Android phones, you get used to it very quickly. So it could be an acceptable compromise. As always, Apple could still be experimenting with multiple design options.
The Toyota Mirai fuel-cell electric vehicle is so far a niche vehicle, but that hasn’t stopped Toyota from dreaming big — really big. Project Portal is a proof of concept semi truck that runs on a scaled-up version of the Mirai’s powertrain.
The Mirai is an four-door car, though, with a maximum weight of two tons. The proof of concept vehicle needs to haul 80,000 pounds, the combined gross vehicle weight of a big rig. So how many times do you have to scale the Mirai system to create that kind of power? Twice, according to Tak Yakoo, a senior executive engineer at Toyota.
“A semi is 36 tons, 18 times the size of a Mirai,” Yakoo said in a phone interview. “But we only use twice as much fuel cell and a relatively small battery.” The battery modules are flexible, so you can add more for a huge truck or fewer for a little passenger car or SUV. The scalability of the Mirai system is the point of the exercise, Yakoo said.
“Cars have so many different sizes of engines — 1.4L, 2.0L, 3.5L, etc.,” Yakoo said. “This is one standard fuel cell system with only a change of battery module size. That’s the dramatic change.” The system in the vehicle shown today at the Port of Los Angeles creates 670 hp and 1,325 lb-ft of torque, enough to move a full tractor-trailer and keep it moving down the highway.
For this concept, the engineers simply removed the components related to the diesel drive train and replaced them with the hydrogen fuel cell system. Taking out the diesel engine “leaves a huge space,” Yakoo said with a laugh. “Using that, we brought in the power electric controlling system, the fuel cells, the electric motor, and the fuel tank.” The tank did have to be fitted behind the cab for this demonstration vehicle.
This is only the beginning of Project Portal, a feasibility study in the use of zero-emissions vehicles for heavy duty. Toyota will begin working on the study along with the Port of Los Angeles’s Clean Air Action Plan this summer.
Toyota isn’t the only company working on emissions-free long-haul trucks. Nikola Motor Company has the Nikola One concept, and Elon Musk announced via tweet that Tesla will introduce a heavy-duty truck later this year.
It’s a tough nut to crack, though. “There are many unknown engineering things we need to explore,” Yakoo said. “We may not even know what is the sticking point or bottleneck” in these early stages of the project. “We are sure right now that I am seeing a fuel cell truck moving with 80,000 pounds of freight.”
Toyota’s overall goal is to produce one fuel cell system to rule them all, no matter the size. As Yakoo said at the end of our interview, “Scalability. That’s our dream — and my dream — to make it happen.”

Featured Image: Toyota Motor NA
The percentage of startups that have at least one female founder was flat in the first quarter of 2017.
Crunchbase’s inaugural study on female founder representation of U.S.-based companies was published in May 2015. As the discussion on the lack of women in engineering teams gathered pace, we concluded that Crunchbase was uniquely placed to address the issue of women being represented in tech when it comes to founders. As the open data set for the startup community, we added gender to Crunchbase in March 2015 to further the research on leadership, founders and gender.
Two years on, and with the expansion of the study to the global ecosystem, we revisit the same questions: What percent of companies have at least one female founder? Have those numbers shifted since 2009? How do female founder teams fare when raising seed, early and late-stage venture dollars?
Five years, no percentage growth
For Crunchbase’s continuing study of female founders, 43,008 global companies with founders had an initial funding between 2009 to 2017. Of these global companies, 6,791 (15.8 percent) have at least one female founder. For this update, we are primarily reviewing year-over-year trends, as data continues to be added to Crunchbase for 2016.
From 2009 to 2012, the percent of venture-funded companies with women founders increased by nearly 8 percent; however, the percentage of women-founded venture-backed companies has plateaued at approximately 17 percent since 2012. And as we look at Q1 2017 data, that percent doesn’t appear to have changed. For those who are keeping track, that’s nearly five years with no percentage growth in women-founded venture-backed startups:

The absolute number of companies (along with the total number of startups) with a female founder grew more than fivefold, from 176 in 2009 to 932 in 2016. This 2016 result will grow as more women-founded startups with an initial funding are added to Crunchbase over the next year.
Of the 932 companies, one-third represent female-only founder teams. A further third are comprised of two-person female-male founding teams. The final third are founders teams of three or more members. In summary, two-thirds of women-founded companies are led only by women or are co-founded with one male founder.
For companies with an initial raise in 2016, female-founded companies are weighted toward education (32 percent), e-commerce (31 percent), healthcare (21 percent) and media and entertainment (21 percent) startups.
Female-founded companies raise just 8 percent of late-stage rounds, 7 percent of late-stage dollars
When it comes to fundraising, how do women-founded teams fare? At each progressive funding stage, female-founded companies are raising lower percents of overall funding.
In 2016, companies with at least one female founder raised 19 percent of all seed rounds, 14 percent of early-stage venture and 8 percent of late-stage venture rounds.

For the same year, female-founded companies raised 17 percent of seed dollars, 13 percent of early-stage dollars and 7 percent of late-stage dollars.

Investor firms challenging the status quo
Many organizations have been formed to address challenges that female founder and underrepresented minorities face. Angel networks like Astia Angels, Pipeline Angels, Broadway Angels and Golden Seeds focus on female-led companies along with training women in investing. BBG Ventures, MergeLane, the Female Founders Fund, Rivet Ventures, Halogen Ventures, Scale Investors, Fierce Capital and The Perkins fund are all early-stage funds focused on female-founded companies. SheWorx, The Vinetta Project, Watermark and others provide a forum for female founders and leadership. Selected here is a growing list of investor firms listed in Crunchbase geared toward investing in female founders.
Susan Lyne, a co-founder of BBG Ventures, confirms that “the biggest issue is not the number of women starting companies, but the access to capital as you move up the food chain.” As demonstrated by the charts above, female-founded companies are raising less as an overall percent as they move through seed, early and late-stage venture. Across all funding stages in 2016, $10 billion went to companies with at least one female founder contrasted with $94 billion invested in male-only founder teams.
Gené Teare is the director of content at Crunchbase.

Featured Image via Flickr user WOCinTech Chat under CC BY 2.0. Image has been cropped.
 
At the DockerCon conference today in Austin, Docker announced a new service called the Modernize Traditional Applications (MTA) Program that enables customers to move certain legacy apps into Docker containers, put them under management of Docker Enterprise Edition and prepare them for use on more modern infrastructure.
What’s more, the company is so confident in their ability to move these applications, that they are willing to guarantee the outcome, so long as the applications meet certain criteria.
What Docker found over the last six months while they built this offering was that customers were hungry to try containerization. While they didn’t necessarily have the skill or the will to go to all the way to micro services, they were looking for a way to take advantage of the higher level benefits of containerization including portability, efficiency and security, COO Scott Johnston told TechCrunch.
“Customers got excited about it when they saw we could take an existing app and put it in a container [without] moving to a more cutting edge micro services project,” he said.
Traditionally, applications have been delivered as a single monolithic entity. With micro services, the holy grail of containerization, you break down your application into discrete pieces, making it much easier to deploy and manage. In this kind of environment developers can concentrate on programming tasks and the operations team can worry about deploying the applications. This is typically referred to as a DevOps approach. With the new service announced today, customers don’t have to go all the way to micro services with containers to gain some of the benefits.
The Docker professional services team is working with partners Avenade, Cisco, Microsoft and HPE to help companies move appropriate legacy apps into a containerized environment. And it makes sense as these vendors are likely to have customers or clients running many of the target applications.

Related Articles
Docker's new enterprise edition gives containers an out-of-the-box experience
Docker open sources critical infrastructure component
WTF is a container?
You're doing DevOps wrong

The company found if the legacy app meets certain criteria, they can actually guarantee they can move it to a container successfully for fixed price within a defined time period. It may sound like a bold promise, but Docker learned throughout the Beta period as they experimented with these applications, that certain ones were easy to move and others were not good candidates. Armed with that knowledge, they felt they could guarantee the outcome.
“What I would say is that an enterprise application suite could have thousands of applications and there is always something that will fit our criteria. We are confident about that,” Johnston said.
He said that companies are spending up to 80 percent of their IT budgets supporting these legacy applications, and believes that if Docker can offer a way to reduce that spending by moving them to more modern architecture without a lot of heavy lifting, the exercise would seem to be a no-brainer, especially with the guarantee.
Hot on the heels of Pandora’s public launch of its on-demand streaming service, Pandora Premium, rival Spotify is looking to make its service more appealing to younger users by rolling out discounted student pricing to more countries around the world. The company announced today that its roughly half-priced version of its Premium service is now available to students who qualify in 33 new countries, in addition to the U.S., U.K., and Germany where student pricing is already offered.
The new countries where student pricing is now available includes: Austria, Australia, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, Chile, Columbia, Czech Republic, Denmark, Ecuador, Estonia, Finland, France, Greece, Hong Kong, Hungary, Indonesia, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Lithuania, Latvia, Mexico, Netherlands, New Zealand, Philippines, Portugal, Singapore, Spain, Switzerland, and Turkey.
In the war for subscribers, offering a lower price point can encourage sign-ups – and this is especially true among the younger demographic, a target market for these new streaming services and the users most likely to struggle to afford access.
On Spotify Premium’s student plan, users have the same benefits as a regular paid subscriber, including ad-free listening, access to Spotify’s catalog of over 30 million songs, offline listening, and more.
Students will have to verify their active enrollment in a university in order to take advantage of the lower price. Spotify is working with authentication and verification software provider SheerID to assist with this aspect of its student program. (Apple Music, by comparison, does something similar – but works with third-party UNiDAYS for verification.)
Like Apple Music’s discount, which drops the $9.99/month service down to $4.99/month, Spotify’s student discount is also a half-priced offering. In the U.S., it costs the same as Apple Music, and that same discount rate will apply in the new countries, as well.
With the additional markets, Spotify’s student discount is available in a total of 36 countries worldwide, which the company notes makes it the biggest music streaming student offer in the world by geographical reach. Apple Music, however, isn’t that far behind – its student offer expanded to more countries in November, including major markets like Canada, Japan, France and China, which brought its total supported markets to 32 at the time.
The two companies are fierce competitors, with Spotify having recently hit 50 million paying customers, and Apple Music having grown to 20 million subscribers as of December. And with Pandora Premium entering the market, the competition looks to be heating up even further.

Featured Image: Thomas Trutschel/Photothek/Getty Images
AirAsia, the budget airline for Southeast Asia that’s headquartered in Malaysia, isn’t commonly associated with startup investments, but today the company announced that it has bought a 50 percent share in trip planning service Touristly in a deal worth MYR 11.5 million, or $2.6 million.
The deal will see AirAsia CEO Tony Fernandes join the startup’s board. Fernandes isn’t a stranger to Touristly since Tune Labs, an incubator program he is involved with, was one investor in its Series A round last May. (On a related note, AirAsia is also planning its first hackathon this year.)
Touristly, which is also a Malaysia-based company, is taking the investment — a convertible loan — for “working capital and development,” the company said. AirAsia said it plans to let Touristly tap into its customer base of 60 million travelers through promotions on its website, in-flight magazine, in-flight advertising spots — yep, AirAsia has ads inside its cabins — and social media presence.
The startup was founded in 2015 and it is aimed at helping travelers plan and customize their holidays. It allows you to pick (and book) activities in cities across Asia Pacific, with a particular focus on China, India and Southeast Asia.



Screenshot 2017-04-19 20.31.12




Screenshot 2017-04-19 20.31.35




Screenshot 2017-04-19 20.31.22




 View Slideshow


Previous
Next
Exit


That mix, AirAsia hopes, will enable the airline to increase its revenue from ancillary services, which cover any costs beyond the price paid to book a flight. Already, low-cost carriers like AirAsia have unbundled flight prices to make them cheaper and more competitive, but they also bring in significant revenue through sales of additional items like preferential seats, in-flight meals and other services that are covered in the cost of traditional airfares but are broken out into separate options under low-cost carriers. A close alliance with Touristly could help AirAsia expand into an entirely new field of ancillary revenue related to trip activities and services that occur between a traveler’s outbound and inbound flights.
Touristly isn’t the only young company that wants to simplify holiday activity bookings. Back in March, Klook, a pan-Asia travel activities platform with a particular focus on China, closed a $30 million Series B round led by Sequoia China. In total, Klook has raised $36.5 million from investors and it has helped with five million bookings from users to date. Its focus is broader than Touristly, and co-founder and COO Eric Gnock Fah told TechCrunch it plans to expand into verticals like restaurants, wellness, shopping and look to expand its reach beyond Asia Pacific in the near future, too.

Featured Image: Rawipad C.KKU/Flickr UNDER A CC BY-SA 2.0 LICENSE (IMAGE HAS BEEN MODIFIED)
If you’re a freelancer or self-employed person, you can now open a dedicated business account with N26 in just a few minutes. These business accounts are pretty similar to the consumer accounts with one additional feature — you get 0.1 percent cashback on all your card purchases.
Business accounts are available in all European countries where N26 already operates. You can’t open an account for a full-fledged company yet, but N26 says that more business features are coming soon.
Here’s a quick recap of what you can do with an N26 account. You can control your card in real time from the app. For instance, you can block foreign transaction or set a limit on ATM transactions because you rarely withdraw cash.
You can pay anywhere around the world with your N26 card without any exchange rate markup or foreign transaction fee. You can also get real time notifications of your transactions on your phone if you care about security.
N26 already has 300,000 customers. It’s clear that the startup wants to recreate a retail bank for European consumers first and foremost. In its current state, business bank accounts seem like an afterthought. But it’s interesting to see that it took little effort to customize the product for freelancers and self-employed persons.
Business bank accounts also seem like another market altogether. Startups like Qonto and Ibanfirst are committed to business bank accounts with a different set of features when you compare it to N26. But maybe the N26 for business bank accounts is going to be N26, after all.
As a side note, I’ve been using N26 as my main personal checking account for a few months now, and it’s been rock solid. I’m quite impressed with N26’s product offering. It’s clean, straight to the point and reliable. I consider my bank account as infrastructure, so that’s all I need.
Early stage VC firm Nauta Capital, which has offices in London, UK, Barcelona, Spain and Boston in the US, has closed out a 2016 fund raising — capping it off at $170 million.
The firm has already closed eight investments with this fund, which had a first closing at $70M, with a further $100M added in parallel — now closing oversubscribed vs the original target for the fund of around $120M, according to general partner Carles Ferrer. (Its prior funds were $55M raised in 2006, and $115M in 2010.)
Nauta has a focus on what it describes as “capital-efficient Series A software propositions”: aka startups that take a leaner approach to taking on funding vs money-gobbling wannabe unicorns. Its areas of tech interest include b2b software, digital media and “enabling technologies” for mobile and the Internet — with an overall focus on large markets with “limited previous technology impact”.
“We believe the VC model has been lately too centered around the Unicorn concept, that is too many times return-unrelated,” Ferrer tells TechCrunch. “Too many companies are pushed to grow more and more but too early, and for that, raise too much money, again too early. Many of them don’t have enough evidence from the market to know if they should be spending so much money.
“If it happens to be too early, that company may end up wasting so much money and energy and having a conflict between equity raised, valuation, and its performance. This too often results in good companies that are actually severely damaged by a poor funding strategies.”
Ferrer argues that the risk for startups raising too much too soon can be especially “delicate” in the b2b sector — describing the firm’s philosophy for startups here being “lean for a good while is beautiful”.
Too many companies cannot make good money for their investors unless they become a semi or full unicorn and we think this is wrong.
“Once you have enough proof, then it is time to run, but not before. By being lean you maximise chances to obtain premium multiples for yourself and entrepreneurs, at any exit valuation. Too many companies cannot make good money for their investors unless they become a semi or full unicorn and we think this is wrong,” he adds.
Staying away from risky unicorn bets is also pragmatic, given falling startup valuations and the clutch of down rounds in recent years. Albeit, investors in Europe do typically ask to see a clearer path to monetization earlier vs their Silicon Valley counterparts.
The 40+ startups in Nauta’s portfolio thus far include companies like Brandwatch, Fizzback, GreatCall, Eyeview Digital, Scytl, Basekit, ForceManager, Marfeel, Getapp, Privalia (which exited to Vente-Privee last year) and Social Point (which exited to Take-Two earlier this year).
While the investments the firm has made most recently, with the 2016 fund, are: in the UK and Ireland: CloudIQ, BeMyEye and ChannelSight; in Spain: Nextail, Geoblink and Lodgify, and in the Boston area: Content Raven and Connected2Fiber.
It says it plans to invest in around 25 companies in total with the fund — mostly at Series A level, though Ferrer notes there “may be a reduced number of earlier deals (A minus) when we know very well the entrepreneur”. He says the firm typically invests between $1M and $7M per startup, but describes “the sweetspot” as “usually as a first ticket $1M to $3M”.
What makes a team catch the firm’s eye? Responding on this he describes its investment thesis as “very disciplined”, saying: “We only do what we understand very well and try to stick to it. Capital efficiency is a concept our entrepreneurs believe in also very passionately.”
Overall, he says the approach is to look for industries that have not been disrupted and then pick “the best companies to do it”, citing a couple of startups it’s backed (InCrowd, BeMyEye) that are aiming to disrupt the “huge and inefficient market research industry”, for example.
In terms of geographical spread, Nauta has full investment teams in its three locations, and Ferrer says from London it’s able to cover the whole of the UK and Ireland plus “other continental European countries where companies are born and naturally migrate to London as a hub”; likewise covering Spain and Portugal — and looking further north into Europe — from its Barcelona base.
“We look at other geographies in Europe when companies migrate to our hubs, or have a special interest on our geographies (where we have a team). Eventually, we can learn enough from those geographies to probably in the future invest more actively there too. We think it is so important to have an investment team based where the dealflow is originated. We also have a Boston presence where we cover the east coast and also help European companies migrate,” he adds.
Nauta’s current fund has been backed by a group of international investors, based in the UK, Continental Europe, Latin America and China, which it says include leading Institutions (Fund of Funds, Financial Institutions, Insurance Companies, Endowments and government agencies) and large Family Offices.
Photo: From left to right, general partners Jordi Vinas, Dominic Endicott, Carles Ferrer and Daniel Sanchez
Mirantis, one of the earliest players in the OpenStack ecosystem, today announced that it will end-of-life Mirantis OpenStack support in September 2019. The Mirantis Cloud Platform, which combines OpenStack with the Kubernetes container platform (or which could even be used to run Kubernetes separately), is going to take its place.
While Mirantis is obviously not getting out of the OpenStack game, this move clearly shows that there is a growing interest in the Kubernetes container platform and that Mirantis’ customers are now starting to look at this as a way to modernize their software deployment strategies without going to OpenStack. The new platform allows users to deploy multiple Kubernetes clusters side-by-side with OpenStack — or separately.
The company is also changing how it delivers its new platform. The company will operate its customers Mirantis Cloud Platform deployments for them for at least six months and then hand it over to the customers’ ops team. “The delivery model ensures that not just the software, but also the customer’s team and process are aligned with DevOps best practices,” the company argues in its announcement today. Updates, too, will come at a regular pace and faster and more painlessly than customers were previously accustomed to with its OpenStack solution.
When I asked Mirantis co-founder and CMO Boris Renski, who isn’t known for holding back on his opinions, about the OpenStack vs. Kubernetes discussion, he noted that “it’s important to distinguish between popularity and value. Popular kids in high school aren’t always the ones that end up driving a Ferrari when adults. It’s true that OpenStack is no longer the popular kid; Kubernetes is — and customers often like to go with what’s popular.”
He added that Mirantis is seeing more customers who are looking to sidestep OpenStack with Kubernetes (which is similar to what Canonical’s Dustin Kirkland told me earlier this month, too). “Also, when OpenStack was ‘the thing,’ we saw customers trying to sidestep everything in the data center with OpenStack — and failing,” Renski added. “The key is to use the right tool for the job: Kubernetes today is good for containers; OpenStack – for VMs. Maybe tomorrow AWS will open source Lambda and will see that sidestepping Kubernetes and containers.”

Featured Image: Mariano Pozo/Getty Images
While Optimizely has bought other startups before, co-founder and CEO Dan Siroker said today is the first time it’s acquiring a startup built on Optimizely’s developer platform — namely, Experiment Engine.
Experiment Engine describes itself as “the most comprehensive, easy-to-use conversion optimization platform,” which might make it sound similar to Optimizely itself. But Siroker (pictured above) explained that the startup has actually built collaboration and project management tools to support Optimizely’s core features (which allow marketers and developers to test out different variations in a website or app).
Those are the kinds of tools that larger companies need if they want to run “tens of thousands of experiments a year” — something that Siroker said became apparent as Optimizely worked with Experiment Engine to serve some of their shared customers.
For example, he said that while Optimizely can help businesses test out different ideas, the ideas themselves are often recorded on an “ad hoc basis” in products like Google Docs. So Experiment Engine has created tools that make it easier to record and prioritize ideas based on the data that’s already available.
Other Experiment Engine features include reporting and analyzing the data from those experiments, and sharing that analysis across teams.
“What we see today is that most of our customers have many more ideas than they have the resources or time to actually bring them to life,” Siroker said. “Now they can more effectively test … and be more collaborative in that process. This is an investment in our core customers.”
Founded in 2014, Experiment Engine raised seed funding from investors including Corsa Ventures, Founder Collective, Mercury Fund and Right Side Capital Management. It also participated in the TechStars Austin incubator program.

Related Articles
Optimizely targets developers with its new testing platform, Optimizely X
Clearmob uses AI to optimize your social marketing campaigns
Verst is a blogging platform with all the optimization tools you need
 The financial terms of the acquisition were not disclosed. The plan is to fully integrate Experiment Engine into the Optimizely platform over the next few months, with founder and CEO Claire Vo joining Optimizely, along with “several” members of the Experiment Engine team.
Siroker added that this acquisition was partly a response to “market forces,” specifically “this thirst and this hunger” for experimentation from larger companies.
“We didn’t invent the scientific method, nor do we claim to do that,” he said. “What we’re trying to do is democratize it.”

Featured Image: Web Summit/Flickr UNDER A CC BY 2.0 LICENSE
In recent years, Microsoft, Facebook and Slack (and many more) have all built new productivity platforms for workers to integrate and communicate about dozens of other API-enabled enterprise apps, but what about productivity tools for those enterprises that have no appetite or budget to rip out and replace software that they’ve been using for years? Well, there’s an app for that, too.
Sapho, which has developed a platform that lets you build “micro apps” for older legacy software packages (often without any APIs at all) to make them more useful and used (“as easy as using Facebook” is the pitch from CEO and cofounder Fouad ElNaggar), has picked up $14 million in a Series B round of funding — raised as the startup continues to pick up speed among enterprises using older software, growing revenues 320 percent and customers 200 percent in 2016.
Typical categories covered in Sapho’s range include expense reporting, sales software, IT support tickets and HR tasks.
Sapho added a Microsoft Teams integration earlier this month, and it also added an integration with IBM Domino (the server side of the legacy service IBM Notes) this past February. It also integrates with software from Microsoft Dynamics, Oracle’s EBS, Salesforce and SAP ERP.
That momentum has also meant that Sapho has been attracting M&A attention: close sources tell us that both Microsoft and IBM are among a group who have talked to the startup about buying it outright as a route to offering micro apps building and administering services to enterprises direct, rather than letting a third party do it for them.
Sapho’s valuation is not being disclosed, but ElNaggar tells us that its increased nearly three-fold since its last round, a Series A of $9.5 million in June 2016, announced at the same time as Sapho launched out of closed beta. The company has raised $27 million to date and is not yet profitable, investing everything in growth at the moment, he added.
The rush of new cloud services from the likes of Amazon, Microsoft, Salesforce, Box and so many more has taken the IT industry by storm. Many small companies and some larger ones are jumping into the new wave of IT with both feet by buying into cloud-based products that can be used in the office, on the go on your phone and maybe even through your watch or Echo speaker.
But that is not the whole story: there is a lot of legacy software still being used by large enterprises, and in many cases the cost of it has already been depreciated to zero, noted cofounder Peter Yared, making it a compelling concept for companies to figure out how to continue to use that rather than invest in something new.
“In Silicon Vally people love to talk about running Docker and Kubernetes, and that is the future of the enterprise stack maybe 15 years from now, but the reality today is that we’ve got security concerns and an IT team that is not ready to make that migration,” said ElNaggar. 
“The cost required to migrate is so abhorrent and risky that if they can find a way to get more value out of systems tat have been depreciated to zero on balance sheet, if they have a way of triple productivity on an asset that is sitting with zero dollars on balance sheet, then that’s what they will do. Plus, there’s tens of billions in revenue still running on top of AS/400s.” (IBM’s legacy system, first introduced in 1988.)
There are other reasons why businesses might be reluctant to “rip and replace,” for example in cases where companies merge with each other and bring in their own legacy systems and large armies of employees that are already having to adjust to a range of other merger-related shifts.
Sapho may focus on ways to make legacy software more modern, but the product itself is a product very much of the new wave of IT applications and how they are priced on demand: it is $4 per active user per month, with a one-time connection fee “to connect the gnarly older stuff” in the words of Yared.
“Our whole thesis behind pricing was that we hated getting burned for licensing for people who didn’t use the software when we were back at CBS Interactive,” he noted (both he and ElNaggar are alums of the media company). “Our thesis is to make 2,000 people more successful, and when we can build micro-applications for 2,000 people, then they get addicted and use them.” In that regard, Sapho is taking a route to revenues that is not unlike Slack’s. ElNaggar said that currently the utilization rate is over 90 percent for Sapho. 
This Series B round was led by previous investor Caffeinated Capital, with participation also from new investor Felicis Ventures, along with other previous investors Alsop Louie Partners, SoftTech VC, Morado Ventures, AME Cloud, and Bloomberg Beta.
“I have seen Sapho’s traction firsthand with Fortune 500 customers looking to modernize their existing systems and improve employee productivity,” said Raymond Tonsing, founder and MD of Caffeinated Capital, said in a statement. “As someone who is always on the lookout for transformational companies with exceptional founders and a world-class team, I believe Sapho is in the right spot to transform enterprise systems while also fundamentally improving how people work.”
Tonsing was the first angel investor in Sapho and also invests in Affirm, Docker, Color Genomics and many others. He also has an interesting track record of exits in developer-focused startups: he was also a backer of Parse (the developer platform sold to Facebook) and Appurify (an app testing platform sold to Google).
Xiaomi unveiled its newest flagship smartphone — the Mi 6 — today at an event in Beijing, having skipped Mobile World Congress, the telecom industry’s largest annual event where it announced the Mi5 last year.
There’s plenty at stake with this new device, given that Xiaomi suffered a sales slump last year with CEO Lei Jun admitting that the company has entered a transitional period after growing too fast.
So, what about the Mi 6?
Well, the first thing to note is that there are plenty of similarities to the iPhone 7, but price isn’t one of them. The entry model — featuring 64 GB of storage — comes in at 2499 RMB, that’s around $360, with a 128 GB option (2899 RMB, $420) and ceramic edition (2999 RMB, $435) completing the range. All three are far cheaper than iPhone equivalents, but, interestingly for Xiaomi, the range is more expensive that the company’s usual flagship prices.
The most obvious iPhone comparison is that there is no headphone jack on the Mi 6, just as Apple elected with last year’s iPhone 7. Whether the Chinese company is following the trend, or doing what makes sense for itself in this instance, that is already ammo for Xiaomi skeptics.
But that’s not all. In a further parallel, the 5.5-inch Mi 6 includes a 12-megapixel dual rear camera — à la the iPhone 7+ — which mixes a wide-angle lens and a telephoto lens. Like the iPhone, the Mi 6 includes a bokeh-style photography option, alongside 10x digital zoom, 2x lossless zoom, and optical image stabilization (OIS) technology. Also on board is an under-glass fingerprint sensor on the front. Xiaomi shipped a similar sensor in the Mi5s Plus last September and, if you believe leaks reported this week, Apple may have similar plans for its next iPhone.

A sample photo of the Mi 6 ‘portrait’ mode supplied by Xiaomi
With the Mi 6, Xiaomi has bumped up its RAM to 6GB, the most it has ever offered in a smartphone. The device is powered by a Snapdragon 835 10nm processor with a 64-bit, octa-core CPU with a whopping 3350 mAh battery that the company said will last a day thanks to “optimization” controls built into its MIUI operating system. Xiaomi announced its own-designed processor in February but it isn’t present here. The chip — called the Surge S1 — made its debut in the Mi5c two months ago but it will take some fine-tuning before it is part of a flagship.
Visually, the device is a departure from the Mi5 with curved edges that Xiaomi said are made possible through its use of “four-sided 3D glass,” while there is a new silver color option that includes a mirrored finish and that rather fetching ceramic model. Other notable features include dual speakers for stereo audio, improved 2.2 dual Wi-Fi technology, and new screen options that include a new night display and reduce blue ray output.
The phone goes on sale from Mi.com and Mi Home Stores in China on April 28. An international expansion to “selected” markets will come later, Xiaomi said, although it didn’t provide specific dates for that.



WeChat_1492586297




xiaomi mi6 ceramic




xiaomi mi 6 454




xiaomi mi6 sdhlh




mi6 fhldf




xiaomi mi6_1




xiaomi mi6_2




xiaomi_mi6_4




xiaomi_mi6_6




 View Slideshow


Previous
Next
Exit


Is this new package enough to regain ground that Xiaomi lost in China?
Xiaomi appears to be seeking a halo effect with a new flagship that is packed full of tech which, on paper at least, compares favorable to the iPhone and Samsung’s Galaxy S8. The company has always sold higher volumes with its lower priced phones — its Redmi range is priced around $150 — so expect the Mi 6 to be a mark in the sand for what its technology and manufacturing chops are capable of. (Although it opted not to innovate on the near-bezel-less Mi Max that won critical acclaim last year.)
The challenge facing the company is tough. In 2016, rivals Huawei, Vivo and Oppo were among the challengers that rose up with competitively priced phones and strong offline distribution reach to knock Xiaomi off the number one perch for smartphone sales in China. Lei Jun has promised to bounce back and expand Xiaomi’s offline commerce efforts, while he intends to continue its ‘smart device’ ecosystem push to increase customer engagement and generate increased revenue. Indeed, the Xiaomi CEO recently likened his firm to U.S. retailer Costco rather than Apple, the latter being a common comparison made in previous years.


If you're covering #XiaomiMi6, Xiaomi was at its peak in China smartphones in 2Q15 (#1 with 16% share). By 4Q16, Xiaomi was #5, 7.4% share pic.twitter.com/IMGI0PgFa3
— Bryan Ma (@bryanbma) April 19, 2017



Overseas, it remains unclear how Xiaomi’s internationalization effort is going, particularly following the departure of Hugo Barra, who led the project but has since move on to Facebook. Xiaomi revealed it cleared $1 billion in revenue in India, its second largest market behind China, last year while Lei Jun added today that it ranks second in the country, but nothing has been said of its performance in the other 20-odd countries where its phones are sold.
Ada, a London and Berlin-based health tech startup, sees its official U.K. push today, and in doing so joins a number of other European startups attempting to market something akin to an AI-powered ‘doctor’.
The company’s mobile offering bills itself as a “personal health companion and telemedicine app” and via a conversational interface is designed to help you work out what symptoms you have and offer you information on what might be the cause. If needed, it then offers you a follow up remote consultation with a real doctor over text.
In a call, two of Ada’s founders — CEO Daniel Nathrath and Chief Medical Officer Dr Claire Novorol — explained that the app has been six years in the making, and actually started life out as being doctor-facing, helping clinicians to make better decisions. The same database and smart backend is now being offered to consumers to access, albeit with a much more consumer-friendly front-end.
In my brief testing of the app, I plugged in the symptoms of a sore or red eye. After drilling through a quite extensive set of questions, many of which appeared to relate to the answers I’d previously given, the Ada app provided three possible conditions, and advised that they could be successfully treated at home.
That, say the company’s founders, reflects one of the main benefits of an AI-driven healthcare app like Ada, which is to empower patients to make more informed decisions about their health. Or, to put it more bluntly, to ensure we only visit a doctor when we need to and, more generally, can be proactive in our healthcare without adding the need for greater human doctor resources.
In other words, just like competitor Babylon, which has added its own AI-powered triage functionality and is backed by two of DeepMind’s founders, this is about using technology to help healthcare scale.
“Ada has been trained over several years using real world cases, and the platform is powered by a sophisticated artificial intelligence (AI) engine combined with an extensive medical knowledge base covering many thousands of conditions, symptoms and findings,” explains the company.
“In every assessment, Ada takes all of a patient’s information into consideration, including past medical history, symptoms, risk factors and more. Through machine learning and multiple closed feedback loops, Ada continues to grow more intelligent, putting Ada ahead of anyone else in the market”.
With that said, Ada isn’t claiming to replace your doctor anytime soon. Like a lot of AI being applied to various verticals, not least healthcare, the app is designed to augment the role of humans, not replace it altogether.
This happens very tangibly in two ways: helping to act as a prescreen consultation before, if needed, being handed off to a real doctor for further advice, or simply helping to create a digital paper trail before a consultation takes place. By getting some of the most obvious symptom-related questions out of the way and captured and analysed by the app, it saves significant time during any follow up consultation.
Novorol tells me that since the app went live, feedback has already shown it to successfully diagnose both common and quite rare conditions. She also talked up the notion that Ada’s AI, since it has and continues to be trained by real doctors, essentially pools a lot of shared expertise. It did start off as a tool to help doctors avoid misdiagnosis, after all.
I asked how Ada compares to Babylon, and although he slightly comically refused to say the company’s name out loud, CEO Nathrath said that unlike competitors, AI isn’t an afterthought. Where others have started with a ‘Skype your doctor’ type offering and added AI, Ada is six years AI in the making and is only now adding remote consultations.
Meanwhile, the startup is being quite secretive regards how it is funded. Aside from an EU grant, Ada Health is said to be backed by unnamed private individuals.


Featured Image: Ada
If you haven’t heard of Chewy, you aren’t alone. But PetSmart, the retail giant with more than 1,500 stores across the U.S., has clearly been tracking the low-flying, five-year-old pet supplies company. According to Recode, it just agreed to purchase its young rival for a stunning $3.35 billion, just slightly more than Walmart paid for Jet.com last year.
This editor only heard of Chewy for the first time last fall, when talking with one of its earlier investors, Larry Cheng of the Boston-based growth equity fund Volition Capital; Volition had written Chewy its $15 million Series A check in 2013, and the company had been growing quietly like a weed, he’d told me.
By design, that began to change late last year, when Bloomberg wrote a long profile about the Dania, Fla., company and the $236 million it had subsequently raised from investors, including BlackRock and New Horizon, the venture arm of mutual fund T. Rowe Price. Until then, said its chairman, billionaire e-commerce veteran Mark Vadon, his advice to the team had been to keep a low profile to better to avoid competition.
It was something of a feat. By the time Bloomberg published its story, the company had more than 3,000 employees and more than $880 million in annual revenue.
Its apparent key to success: personalization, from writing customers hand-written thank you and holiday cards to dedicating roughly one-sixth of its employees to customer service so pet owners’ questions could be answered quickly. Free shipping on orders over $49 also helped.
Perhaps as a result, the company hadn’t yet reached profitability, Bloomberg noted, but no matter. By the time its report was published, Chewy was reportedly talking with Goldman Sachs about preparing an IPO for this year.
No doubt Walmart and Amazon were following its moves, too. Another big profile that ran in Forbes in January reported that Chewy controls 43 percent of the online sales of pet food and litter in the U.S., just behind Amazon’s 48 percent.
As it turns out, Chewy’s traction proved the most irresistible to PetSmart, for immediate strategic reasons. PetSmart was taken private for $8.7 billion in 2014 by the private equity firm BC Partners, and as part of an overhauled designed to fuel its future growth, the company has been shifting more of its business online. Chewy also has a great reputation with its customers, which is less uniformly the case for PetSmart. Indeed, in a statement today, PetSmart CEO Michael Massey said of the deal, “Chewy’s high-touch customer e-commerce service model and culture centered around a love of pets is the ideal complement to PetSmart’s store footprint and diverse offerings.”
The acquisition is expected to close by the end of PetSmart’s second fiscal quarter of 2017.
Chewy cofounder and CEO, Ryan Cohen — who dropped out of college in Montreal to become an entrepreneur — will continue to lead Chewy as an independent subsidiary of the company.
Baidu is opening its self-driving vehicle platform in a bid to help drive the development of autonomous cars.
The Chinese internet giant today announced its Apollo project that will see its platform, including vehicle platform, hardware platform, software platform and cloud data services, opened to help others in the industry, particularly car manufacturers, to develop autonomous vehicles.
The initial target is to open the technologies up for vehicles in restricted environments this July. Baidu said it then plans to share technology for simple urban road conditions before the end of the year, with the ultimate goal of opening its full tech stack — covering fully autonomous driving capabilities on highways and open city roads — by 2020.
“AI has great potential to drive social development, and one of AI’s biggest opportunities is intelligent vehicles,” Qi Lu, the former Microsoft exec who recently became Baidu group president and COO, said in a statement.
Beyond offering up its platform and technologies, which the company has invested significant sums into, Baidu said it is also looking to add partners to the program to strengthen it, particularly around compatible vehicles, sensors, and other components. Baidu has partnerships with Chinese companies such as BAIC Motor, BYD and Chery, while a two-year relationship with BMW petered out last year over apparent differences in strategy.
This move to open source much of its self-driving tech seems like a move to gain a leg-up on more developed competitors such as Google and Tesla.
Baidu was one of the first major tech companies to embrace artificial intelligence and machine learning, and its autonomous vehicle push began with road testing in Beijing in 2015. Last November, it offered test rides to attendees of the World Internet Conference in Wuzhen, and the Chinese company also has a permit to test in California, which is where its research labs — including its AI division — is based. Baidu recently lost the head of that project, renowned AI expert Andrew Ng, after he announced the end of his three-year stay at the company, but its AI group nevertheless employs around 1,300 people, with 300 of those in the Baidu Research division. That makes it one of the largest units of its kind in tech.
80% of Instagram’s users 600 million users are outside the US, so it needed a way to provide a better experience for users with limited network connectivity or no data plan.
Today at F8, Instagram announced it’s built support for using most of its features without Internet access. Much of this functionality is now available on Android, which is the preferred device type in the developing world. More will come in the following months, and Instagram tells me its exploring an iOS version.
Instagram engineer Hendri says offline users will be able to see content previously loaded in Instagram’s feed. People can leave comments, Like things, save media, or unfollow people — all of which will go through when they reconnect. Profiles they’ve visited before will be visible, as will old versions of the Explore tab or their own profile.

The engineering gymnastics required to do this could help Instagram grow in developing nations where data is either too expensive for everyone to afford, or there aren’t omnipresent or stable data connections. Facebook’s developing world app Facebook Lite shot to 200 million users in just a year, proving the big opportunity Instagram could seize by allowing users to enjoys the app even in isolation. While Snapchat seems to have forgotten about the developing world, Instagram knows everyone everywhere wants visual communication.
Today Facebook open sourced Caffe2. The deep learning framework follows in the steps of the original Caffe, a project started at the University of California, Berkeley. Caffe2 offers developers greater flexibility for building high-performance products that deploy efficiently.
This isn’t the first time that Facebook has engaged with the Caffe community. Back in October, Facebook announced Caffe2Go, what effectively was a mobile CPU and GPU optimized version of Caffe2 (they even both have Caffe2 in their names if you parse it right). Caffe2Go received attention at that time because its release coincided with Style Transfer.
Notably, the company also released extensions to the original Caffe. The majority of these changes make Caffe more attractive to developers building services for large audiences. For projects where resources are of no consequence, Facebook has historically turned to Torch — a library it finds optimal for research use cases.
Every tech company wants to tout the scalability of its machine learning framework of choice. I asked Yangqing Jia, the lead author on Caffe2, what he thought of MXNet and the noise Amazon has been making about its ability to scale. Reasonably, he was cautious about dropping benchmarking numbers for comparison. These numbers can have meaning, but they are heavily influenced by the actual implementation of a machine learning model and subject to a fair amount of “DIY” volatility.
Yangqing Jia, the lead author on Caffe2 and Alex Yu, leader of business development
“All frameworks are more or less at a similar scalability factor,” explained Jia. “We’re pretty confident that Caffe2 is probably a little bit better than the rest.”
Facebook is pouring a lot of resources into both Caffe2 and PyTorch. Today’s release accompanies partnerships at the hardware, device and cloud levels. Alex Yu, leader of business development for Caffe2, explained to me that Facebook aimed to include the market leaders in each category. This meant Nvidia and Intel on the hardware side, Qualcomm on the device side and Amazon and Microsoft on the cloud side. And while Google wasn’t targeted, a GCP partnership wouldn’t be out of the question going forward.
Prior to release, Caffe2 was deployed at scale across Facebook. The team also took considerations for the developer communities familiar with the original Caffe. Caffe models can be easily converted to Caffe2 models with a utility script. Facebook is releasing documentation and tutorials and has put Caffe2’s source code on GitHub.
Today’s Stories 

Facebook launches augmented reality Camera Effects developer platform
Facebook launches beta of Spaces, its goofy and fun social VR platform
Snapchat introduces World Lenses – live filters for just about anything
Steve Ballmer’s new project sheds light on U.S. Government spending
Pandora Premium opens to all, invites no longer needed

Credits
Written and Hosted by: Anthony HaFilmed by: Matthew MauroEdited by: John Murillo
Notes
Tito Hamze is on vacation until April 27. If you see him, tell him I miss him.
Oracle just announced that it has acquired ad measurement company Moat.
Founded in 2010, Moat helps advertisers and publishers measure whether people see and interact with online ads. The need to create what CEO Jonah Goodhart has called “the currency for digital advertising” seems increasingly important given advertiser concerns around viewability, fraud and trust, and Moat has been working with some big names, including Nestle, Procter & Gamble and Unilever on the advertiser side, as well as ESPN, Facebook and Snapchat on the publisher side.
And while Moat raised $50 million just over a year ago, the funding landscape for adtech companies hasn’t been great, leading to predictions of more acquisitions and consolidation. (Moat raised more than $67 million total from investors including SV Angel, Mayfield Fund and Insight Venture Partners).
Oracle, meanwhile, has been moving aggressively into digital advertising and marketing over the past few years, with acquisitions like Vitrue and BlueKai.

Related Articles
Oracle Announces Its Cross-Platform Marketing Cloud
Oracle Continues March To Cloud Buying Data As A Service Broker Datalogix
Clicks Be Gone: AdTech Disrupter Moat Raises $12M Series B From Mayfield, Others
 The company says Moat will continue to operate as “an independent platform within Oracle Data Cloud,” with the Moat team joining Oracle.
“It is with great enthusiasm that we join forces with Oracle Data Cloud,” Goodhart said in the acquisition release. “When Oracle approached us about working together, we began to see the huge potential to jointly drive innovation. At our core, we believe there is an opportunity to fundamentally improve marketing and storytelling by brands and publishers through better data and analytics.”
The financial terms of the deal were not disclosed.

Featured Image: wellesenterprises/Getty Images
Have you always wanted to check out that StarCraft game you’d heard so much about, but somehow managed to go nearly 20 years without buying a copy?
Good news! Nearly two decades after its 1998 release, StarCraft is now free. Legally!
Blizzard has just released the original game — plus the Brood War  expansion — for free for both PC and Mac. You can find it here. Up until a few weeks ago, getting the game with its expansion would’ve cost $10-15.
The company says they’ve also used this opportunity to improve the game’s anti-cheat system, add “improved compatibility” with Windows 7, 8.1 and 10 and fix a few long-lasting bugs.
So why now? The company is about to release a remastered version of the game in just a few months, its graphics/audio overhauled for modern systems. Once that version hits, the original will probably look a bit ancient by comparison — so they might as well use it to win over a few new fans, right?
This is also good news for everyone who, like me, has wanted to play at some point in the past 20 years but hasn’t been able to because Billy borrowed your CD binder with the StarCraft disc and never gave it back. I still remember, Billy.

Featured Image: Ray Dehler/Flickr UNDER A CC BY 2.0 LICENSE
You can’t be hanging around in the world of crowdfunding for as long as Kickstarter without spotting a few trends here and there. Taking a leaf out of Y Combinator’s Request for Startups, the crowdfunding site is highlighting what it thinks are opportunities in the coming year. While Kickstarter’s goals are significantly more fuzzy than Y Combinator’s, it sends a clear signal to potential campaigns, hinting what Kickstarter will throw its not inconsiderable weight behind.
The crowdfunding site specifically identifies “Tools for Creating.” The category, Kickstarter says, includes both literal creation tools, such as Wazer, which was launched at TechCrunch Disrupt last year, and more a more liberal take on creation, such as Artiphon’s Instrument 1.

Related Articles
PicoBrew blindsides Kickstarter backers with surprise stretch goal
Doppler Labs suit claims Bose backed Kickstarter and took meetings to get access to technology
ZTE kills its crowdsourced phone Kickstarter campaign
Francis Ford Coppola is taking to Kickstarter to make an 'Apocalypse Now' game
Crowdfunding platforms take a data-driven approach to state political campaigns
Facebook introduces personal fundraising tools, donate buttons in Facebook Live for Pages
Dubuc Motors gets SEC approval for equity crowdfunding
The two other topics of focus are even less helpful, and include “Boundary Pushers” and “Delightful Design,” which, frankly, could mean anything. It’s not entirely clear what it is that Kickstarter is trying to achieve by posting the request for projects, especially without clear goals attached. One could argue that all crowdfunding campaigns should be pushing boundaries and be well-designed.
What is interesting, however, is that this appears to signal a shift away from some of Kickstarter’s other stated goals: For the past few years, the site seems to have been focusing on artistic and creative projects over technology-heavy projects. Taking its eyes off the ball means that the company’s arch-rival Indiegogo threatened to become the default go-to site for a lot of hardware  and tech-related projects. It’s good to see Kickstarter get back into the race and actually start promoting its internal teams that are working with creators to build successful crowdfunded projects.
Personally, I’d love to see the criteria spelled out more explicitly (we are seeking X and Y, but not A and B), but I suppose any initiative has to start somewhere. Kickstarter’s initial volley might be a bit wooly, but if there’s one thing the company has consistently been getting right, it’s taking feedback and iterating quickly, so I’m excited to see where the Request for Projects might evolve.
Virtual reality really isn’t good enough yet to justify going broke for.
Though VR headset prices are steadily coming down, the fact is it’s still not all that accessible for even the most gadget-obsessed consumers to get started on high-quality VR. This is a major problem for the VR industry, one that will be solved eventually, but it’s unclear how much hype will wear off before that happens.
Today, HTC, which makes the popular Vive headset, announced a few deals that will help new customers spread out the cost of the $799 gadget. HTC has detailed that they aren’t all that interested in price-matching Facebook’s Oculus, which is now selling a bundle of its Rift headset and Touch controllers for $598.
Facebook’s PC-powered Rift system allegedly hasn’t been selling as well as HTC’s, but with the recent price drop and some software quirks that allow less-powerful PCs to run VR, it’s clear Oculus is looking to capture some less-techie users even if that’s a pipe dream during this stage of the industry.
You need to have a pretty decent handle on PC tech specs to make sense of these new deals from HTC, but that kind of speaks to the audience HTC is isolating for its platform as it continues to serve as the favorite platform for VR developers.
HTC is bundling a pretty beefy Nvidia GTX 1070 graphics card and its Vive headset for $999.99, while also offering a host of financing options for people in the market for a gaming PC and a headset. The graphics card bundle is a few hundred bucks off suggested retail price.
This is actually a great deal if you’re looking to build a new PC or are in need of a new graphics card to run VR in the first place; the 1070 will be able to handle most anything you throw at it. The bundle is only offered through April 24, though the financing options on some of the other deals (detailed here) should stay available for a bit.
Electric production vehicles may be relatively rare, but electric concepts abound, and most of them are targeting 2020 for a rough production date, as is the Volkswagen I.D. CROZZ, an all-electric design whose name I hope dies in a horrible fire between now and whenever (if ever) it does end up hitting the street.
The name does do one thing adequately well — it conveys that this is a “crossover,” that adulated category of vehicle everyone everywhere is going gaga over lately. We once called these small SUVs or large hatchbacks, but we’ve all grown up since then. And as grown-ups, someone felt that when another person said CROZZ in a board room it was a good idea.
It was not; but the car bearing that name sounds perfectly okay — maybe even good. It’s got around 300 miles of electric range, and full all-wheel drive, along with boosted charging capabilities that let it recover 80 percent of its driving time in just 30 minutes of charging using 150kW DC chargers. The concept also has full self-driving capabilities, which are of course aspirational at this stage, but which a driver will be able to engage just by touching the VW badge in the center of the CROZZ’s steering wheel for three continuous seconds.



Autodesk VRED Professional 2017 SP1
Autodesk VRED Professional 2017 SP1



Autodesk VRED Professional 2017 SP1
Autodesk VRED Professional 2017 SP1



Autodesk VRED Professional 2017 SP1
Autodesk VRED Professional 2017 SP1



VW-ID-Crozz-Concept-9




VW-ID-Crozz-Concept-10




VW-ID-Crozz-Concept-21




VW-ID-Crozz-Concept-22




VW-ID-Crozz-Concept-23




 View Slideshow


Previous
Next
Exit


As with Volkswagen’s initial I.D. series concept vehicle, this electric car has digital “eyes” made up of LEDs on the outside that are meant to communicate with other drivers and pedestrians, and its inside also offers augmented reality displays to surround the driver with info overlaid right on the world around them.
Volkswagen goes so far as to call this concept a “smartphone on wheels” in a press release, which is about the most direct, unvarnished and accurate expression of the current strategy of most automakers I think I’ve ever heard. Truth in advertising.
Well, it was fun while it lasted. The NES Classic Edition (it went by several names, but you know what I mean) was the must-have item of the holidays and pretty much ever since, owing to short supply of the compact retro gaming console. And Nintendo just confirmed that it was indeed ending production of the device in Europe, the last region they were still officially available.
A Nintendo representative told Eurogamer that the company is “no longer manufacturing the Nintendo Classic Mini.” This was previously confirmed for the U.S. and Japan, but there was a glimmer of hope that it might, for some strange reason, live on in Europe. It was not to be.

Related Articles
Farewell, NES Classic Edition
Nintendo releases three-part video series about that insanely good Zelda game
Review: The NES Classic Edition and all 30 games on it
If you’re anything like the other 7 billion people on this planet, you’re probably wondering why Nintendo would voluntarily stop printing money. This thing, after all, was a cheap Linux box running games that came out 30 years ago, and people were paying multiples of the reasonable $60 retail price.
It’s kind of hard to say — Nintendo has done some very strange things in its time, and has made some very questionable decisions, so there’s no guarantee this one is any different. But if you think about it, they got everything they wanted out of this, and more.
The NES Classic was arguably always meant to be nothing more than a snack. Nintendo couldn’t push the launch of the Switch to before the holidays (even March was a stretch given the lack of games and features), but the idea of having the walking-dead Wii U as its only offering for this major buying season was unthinkable.
So to bridge the gap — and keep people excited about Mario, Link and everyone else — Nintendo put out the Classic. It would tide people over until the Switch launch, and whet their appetite for the NES titles that would be offered later on the inevitable Virtual Console.
They seem to not have predicted two things: the popularity of the device and the speed at which it would be hacked. The latter, it must be said, largely depended on the former.
But the NES Classic was good — very good — and it struck a chord with consumers. You couldn’t find one for love or money, unless you wanted to pay five times the sticker price. Hackers also soon found it was also relatively easy to add games to, making it a target not just for nostalgia-seekers but also serious retro gamers.
Nintendo likely didn’t plan on this level of demand, but in the end, perhaps wisely, decided to “leave them wanting more,” as the saying goes. They could have made and sold five or 10 million of the things, but decided not to. They proved that people still love Nintendo and want to buy Nintendo products, and that was enough.
Not only that, but the ball is still in their court. Could we see another version of the Classic appear later this year packed with sports games or RPGs? Or perhaps, as many earnestly hope, an SNES classic? It’s up to Nintendo, and they are, as always, infuriatingly uncommunicative.
We may have to be satisfied with the fact that the NES Classic happened at all. Nintendo has us wrapped around its finger — again — and that’s just where it wants us.
At its F8 developer conference, Facebook today announced that it is open-sourcing Litho, a declarative framework for building efficient user interfaces on Android. Litho is the same framework Facebook uses internally to build its own Android app, which is currently being used by more than a billion people every month.
The company first talked about this new framework last October. At the time, the company noted that the issue it was trying to solve was mostly about building a more performant framework for displaying the Facebook News Feed, which tends to be more complex than the scrollable lists for which the standard Android tools are optimized. Those lists tend to use Android’s RecyclerView, but in order to get to the 60 frames per second that modern device screens now typically support (and which users expect), the RecyclerView simply isn’t fast enough for more complex applications.

“As UIs become increasingly sophisticated, it gets harder to complete all the rendering work that needs to get done in this time frame,” Facebook’s Pasquale Anatriello and Marco Cova write in today’s announcement. “This proves to be especially challenging with dynamic scrolling surfaces, as new pieces of UI are constantly being introduced on screen.”
Litho’s programmers used some of what Facebook learned from React and built a new system that improves scroll performance up to 35 percent. It does that, in part, by breaking down complex views like the News Feed into smaller components (think text, images and videos) that can then be rendered incrementally. It also can take some of those smaller pieces and recycle them without having to keep multiple copies in memory.

As Facebook engineering manager Lucas Rocha and Facebook engineer Emil Sjolander told me earlier this week, it’s worth noting that while this focus on feeds may solve Facebook’s problems (but isn’t really applicable to other apps), many of the most popular apps today are indeed built around the idea of a feed. Now that it’s open source, other developers outside of Facebook may also be able to implement some of the idea here for other problems, but the team itself is mostly focused on optimizing the product for the use cases Facebook itself sees.
Litho is now available on GitHub. Facebook is also making a number of tutorials and technical deep dives available on the project’s homepage.
At its F8 developer conference, Facebook today announced the launch of React VR, a new JavaScript framework that lets developers build virtual reality experiences with the help of JavaScript. As its name implies, React VR takes its cues from Facebook’s existing React framework; just like with React for standard web apps, VR developers can now use the same declarative model to write apps for their 360-degree experiences.
Unsurprisingly, React VR uses existing web technologies like WebGL and WebVR to power the experience and interact with the various sensors in them. It’s worth noting that the focus here isn’t (yet?) on building complex VR games and other experiences. While you can add 3D models, the main idea here is to allow developers to easily combine 360 panoramas with 2D user interfaces, text and images.
Anybody with experience in building React apps should be able to build React VR apps pretty easily (and those developers will also be able to leverage many of the existing tools in the React ecosystem).
Even more so than mobile apps, VR apps need to be rendered at 60 frames per second (or, ideally, even faster). Because React Native already addressed many of the issues that typically make this hard to do with a JavaScript app, the team was able to get the right amount of performance to make React VR applications fast enough, too.
The code of React VR is now available on GitHub and, if you want to play with it, you also can find the documentation here.
Facebook has completely rewritten React, its popular JavaScript library for building user interfaces. The company hasn’t previously talked much about React Fiber, as the project is called, but it has actually been working on it for a while. It’s now ready to talk about this project publicly in more detail (after word about it started spreading last year) and the plan is to put this rewrite into the hands of developers once React 16.0 launches later this year. It’s already in use on Facebook.com today, which clearly indicates that Facebook itself thinks it’s ready for prime time.
In addition, it is also launching a rewrite of Relay, its framework for building data-heavy applications.
React Fiber
The idea behind React Fiber, the company tells me, is to take what the company has learned from developing React the first time around and put that into an updated framework that is still fully backwards compatible with existing React-based applications. React Fiber, Facebook tells me, will become the foundation of any future improvements and feature development of the React framework.
The main focus here was to make React as responsive as possible, Facebook engineer — and member of the React core team — Ben Alpert told me in an interview earlier this week. “When we develop React, we’re always looking to see how we can help developers build high-quality apps quicker,” he noted. “We want to make it easier to make apps that perform very well and make them responsive.”
In light of this theme, it’s no surprise that the highlights of this new release are built-in primitives for scheduling and incremental rendering. “We want to make sure we render the right stuff at the right time,” Alpert said, and added that “responsiveness was a huge push here.”
But why rewrite React from scratch? “It was not necessarily that the old code base was bad, but we wanted to start with a new foundation that could power everything we do going forward,” Alpert said. That means the new code was developed from the ground up to be extensible, for example.
Alpert stressed that React Fiber will be backward compatible, though as with all major React updates, there will be a few small breaking changes. The team says it doesn’t anticipate that these will be problematic for developers, though. “We always had a strong API contract, so that gives us the flexibility to reimplement,” he added.
Relay Modern
As Facebook also today announced, Relay — the company’s JavaScript framework for building data-driven applications — has also been rewritten with a similar emphasis on performance and extensibility. Relay combines React with Facebook’s GraphQL query language and now Relay Modern, as the company calls this rewrite, is meant to push this concept further and overcome some of the limitations of the original design. That also meant simplifying some of the design to enhance the overall performance of the framework. “Relay Modern retains the best parts of Relay — colocated data and view definitions, declarative data fetching — while also simplifying the API, adding features, improving performance, and reducing the size of the framework,” the team explains in today’s announcement. To do this, the team implemented a number of changes, but most importantly, it adopted static queries and ahead-of-time optimizations.
Static queries essentially ensure that complex queries that aren’t altered by runtime conditions can be pre-built and offloaded to Facebook’s servers. So instead of sending complex queries across the network, all an application has to send is a string that identifies the pre-set query and the variables needed to complete it. Related to this, the ahead-of-time optimization feature in the Relay compiler now looks at the query structure to optimize the query that is now stored on the server to execute it faster — and hence return results to the user faster, too. Other new features in React Modern include built-in garbage collection, for example.
For developers who are already using an older version of Relay, Relay Modern comes with a compatibility API.
Facebook says that when its teams switched the Marketplace tab in the Facebook app from Relay to Relay Modern, the time to interaction on Android improved by an average of 900ms. While that doesn’t sound like much, every second on mobile counts, and that’s enough to make an application feel noticeably more responsive than before.
Apple quietly rolled out updated versions of its iWork, iMovie and GarageBand apps on Mac and iOS today, making them free for all customers on both platforms. Many customers already had free copies of these apps, as they came free with new Mac or iOS devices. The pricing change, however, removes the requirement to have bought new Apple hardware to get the apps for free. This expands the apps’ reach to anyone using Apple devices, even if they never bought new or are using older devices.
The news of the price change was first reported by MacRumors, and we’ve confirmed.
iWork is actually a suite of productivity apps — Numbers, Keynote and Pages — meant to rival Microsoft Office and Google Docs. Meanwhile, GarageBand and iMovie are more consumer-focused tools, for music and video editing.
Prior to the price change, the Mac versions of the iWork apps were $19.99 and the iOS versions were $9.99 apiece for those customers who hadn’t bought a new device in the past few years. iMovie and GarageBand for Mac were $14.99 and $4.99, respectively, and their iOS counterparts were $4.99 on the App Store.
Since late 2013, Apple had been bundling these apps with new iPhones, iPads, iPod touch devices and Macs, or making them free to download.
Below is a list of the now free apps, along with the software version requirements needed to run the latest versions:

iWork Mac: macOS 10.12 or later
iWork iOS: iOS 10.0 or later
iMovie Mac: macOS 10.11.2 or later
iMovie iOS: iOS 9.3 or later
GarageBand Mac: macOS 10.10 or later
GarageBand iOS: iOS 10.2 or later

 
Audi’s newest electric vehicle is a crossover SUV with a 4.5-second 0-60mph time, and an impressive range of around 300 miles when its 95kWh battery is topped up. The Audi e-tron Sportback is set for production starting in 2019, and it’s part of Audi’s larger strategy to bring at least three fully electric cars to market by 2020, and to have a quarter of its overall lineup equipped with EV batteries by 2025.
The carmaker is pursuing electric options fairly aggressively, likely part of an overall shift dictated by its parent company Volkswagen, which has been more emphatic about its EV plans since its diesel emissions scandal. The e-tron Sportback definitely sounds like it could be a strong contender to help show that the electric strategy is full of potential for a range of buyers, and it would be nice to see a vehicle that can compete in many ways with Tesla’s gull-wing luxury electric SUV, the Model X.
Audi has already announced the all-electric e-tron quattro, which is set to begin being offered for sale in 2018, and by then, not to mention when the e-tron Sportback hits the market, there should be no shortage of options in the high-end electric SUV market, judging by the announced roadmaps of a number of carmakers.



Audi e-tron Sportback concept
Static photo, color: Lux Silver



Audi e-tron Sportback concept
Static photo, color: Lux Silver



Audi e-tron Sportback concept
Static photo, color: Lux Silver



Audi e-tron Sportback concept
Static photo, color: Lux Silver



Audi e-tron Sportback concept
Static photo, color: Lux Silver



Audi e-tron Sportback concept
Dynamic photo, color: Lux Silver



 View Slideshow


Previous
Next
Exit


Futuristic tech touches make the Audi a sight to behold, including Matrix LED, laser lighting and OLEDs designed to provide new levels of light-based communication with the outside world, as well as passengers within. Based on this and other concepts we’ve seen, if you’re not crazy about the idea of cars becoming “expressive” anthropomorphized futurist love bugs, the future isn’t for you.
The e-tron Sportback also all but does away with blind spots thanks to strategically positioned cameras that pipe real-time images to displays built into the interior of the car’s doors, giving you a view as to what’s going on all around.
The Spectre 13 x360 that I strangely loved from late last year is back with a 4K screen and pen support for the Windows Creators update that went global this month. There’s also a new EliteBook x360 for enterprise users, with beefed-up security via a fingerprint scanner, Windows Hello and always-on security monitoring for the BIOS.
One x360 laptop is better for work, the other for multimedia. Both are some of the best Windows machines out there, but with a few caveats.
A secure laptop is only as secure as the network it’s on

HP EliteBooks are often sold in contracts to corporations or startups that need Windows systems in bulk for their employees. The EliteBook x360 is no different, except we haven’t seen the x360 hinge with a pen before on an EliteBook. The result is a work machine that can be laid flat with its dual microphones for a conference call, but can transform into a tablet with pen support — reminiscent of the Microsoft Surface experience. This functionality is assisted by the Windows Creators update that added Paint 3D, Windows Ink in Photos/Edge and a whole suite of features I previously covered.
Specs-wise, the EliteBook x360 is similar to its consumer-oriented counterpart. A Core i7 processor, 16GB of RAM, 512GB SSD, a sharp 1080p HD screen and lots of legacy ports — HDMI-out, microSD, secure card, Kensington lock slot, etc. — are all included.
The difference between the EliteBook and the Spectre is most notably: security. 
But if it’s just a powerful Windows laptop you’re looking for, then the Spectre will suit you just fine.
The difference between the EliteBook and the Spectre is most notably: security. Every 15 seconds the BIOS is scanned for tampering. If detected, the EliteBook shuts down and installs a fresh copy of the BIOS. Of course, the whole system is also encrypted and supported by Windows 10 Pro.



DSC_0010




DSC_0048




DSC_0031




DSC_0032




DSC_0014




DSC_0016




DSC_0017




DSC_0022




DSC_0027




DSC_0029




 View Slideshow


Previous
Next
Exit


There are also quite a few ways to lock the system: Windows Hello facial recognition (via infrared camera), a fingerprint sensor or the HP WorkWise app (iOS/Android) that acts as a proximity lock, like the key fob to a Tesla or similar luxury car.
Battery life is solid, ranging from 12-15 hours in my personal use.
However, your system is really only as secure as your connection to the internet and the services you use. A VPN, good judgement of networks, sites, files and personal network security (or the corporate network managed by an IT manager) is what will decide whether your system gets compromised or not.
But fret not: If all of that physical access security isn’t enough, HP partnered with 3M to start shipping EliteBooks with an optional SureView privacy filter. It activates 35 degrees from the center viewpoint, getting brighter, not darker to provide a privacy filter. The downside is you’ll take an hour battery life penalty, but the trade-off is it can be easily activated from the keyboard.
4K and pen support — that’s it?

I’m torn with the new Spectre x360: I recommended it wholeheartedly last year, as did a number of other publications. It’s been less than six months and now there’s a 4K option with the same internals.
In the real world, having a 4K screen doesn’t offer that much of an advantage over the original model — other than limited high-res content consumption, or if you just like pixels. To top it off, the 13-inch 4K screen doesn’t adhere to any color-grading standard (like Adobe’s, for example), which would make it great for multimedia editing.
So it really is just a pretty face, driven by otherwise compelling hardware.
The regular full-HD panel looks like an Etch-A-Sketch in comparison.”
However, the quality of the visual upgrade is highly noticeable. The regular full-HD panel looks like an Etch-A-Sketch in comparison. When buying a new laptop like this, you’ll need to ask yourself if trading a few hours of battery life for 3840 x 2160 pixels is worth it — in this case, it really isn’t.
While I used to proudly reach 10 hours of usage on the HD Spectre x360, I can only get by 6-7 hours on the 4K model. Time I could have spent working or watching (with content) on a less crisp, but still vibrant and sharp HD screen.
In summary, I’d pass on the 4K for the consumer x360 and go for extra security on the enterprise x360.
Prices as reviewed: $1,269+ for EliteBook x360, $1,599 for Spectre x360 with 4K.
Zozi, the drama-filled travel industry startup whose former CEO recently sued its board, has been acquired by Peek, a rival in the tours and activities business where Zozi also competes. Terms of the deal were not disclosed, but the two companies will be joining forces, with the assets and team from Zozi heading over to Peek.
The news was reported by Skift, which notes that Peek is basically hiring the Zozi employees and bringing its customers on board, while the Zozi brand and marketplace will be phased out.
This is a nice, soft landing for troubled Zozi, which has been struggling with legal battles following the firing of founder and CEO T.J. Sassani, who sued the board for wrongful termination and a host of other outrageous claims. Meanwhile, Zozi staff told us that Sassani had been largely absent from the company for months (even skipping its holiday party), had difficult relations with vendors and was spending money on ventures that other members of the executive team didn’t believe in and thought could potentially bankrupt the business.
In recent days, Zozi had shifted its focus away from its travel and tours marketplace to Zozi Advance, its B2B platform for bookings and reservations. The changes forced the company to lay off nearly 40 percent of its staff earlier this year.

Related Articles
Zozi's ousted CEO sues board following last week's layoffs
Tour and activities marketplace Zozi lays off staff

But Zozi Advance held promise, the company believed. It said that the SaaS product allowed it to grow its revenue nearly 3x in 2016, and was on track to double its revenue this year.
Peek, on the other hand, grew 10x in the last two years, it says. Last summer the company announced a $10 million round of funding, which included Trulia founder Pete Flint joining its board. It has used that funding to invest in its bookings platform, Peek Pro.
Zozi tells us that its Zozi Advance customers will be brought onto Peek Pro’s platform in the months ahead. The merchants on the Zozi marketplace will be moved over to Peek.com, but Zozi’s brand and consumer offering will later be shuttered.
Not all Zozi employees will be joining Peek, from the sound of things. The company says it’s currently finalizing the team structure, with plans to bring together “key members” of the Peek and Zozi teams to “leverage the best talent in the space.”
“Peek shares our vision around putting operators first, said Elon Boms, Zozi board member and investor, about the deal. “And above all, we care about making sure we provide our operators with the best service and technology to help grow and manage their business. This is a big win for the industry and a big win for our operators.”
YouTube Live is making impressive strides in catching up to incumbent Twitch, but it has a long way to go yet. On the bright side, it doesn’t look like they’ll run out of road: Streaming looks to be a fairly sustainable business, suggest stats from Streamlabs’ latest report.
According to data gleaned through Streamlabs’ streaming assistant app, YouTube Live has outpaced Twitch in growth over the last six months. That’s to be expected with a newish service offered by a powerful competitor, but it’s also not uncommon to see challengers like this fail to gain serious traction at all.
Twitch these days has somewhere north of 250,000 monthly active streamers, and that’s growing in fits and starts; 5,000 this month, 15,000 the next. YouTube added 23,000 its first month, and has grown to around 75,000 (again, monthly actives). That’s healthy growth and its momentum seems far from spent.
That said, Twitch still generated 96 percent of the tip revenue that Streamlabs (which is used by huge numbers of streamers) directly observed.
One pleasantly surprising statistic newly reported is that longtime stream viewers tip considerably more than new ones. Two-year-old accounts tipped more than $80 total per year on average, while brand new accounts tipped around $23. The numbers smoothly increase between those extremes, implying this is something people are adopting as a regular hobby, just like anything else, and spending money accordingly.
That’s supporting the streamers themselves, who are increasingly likely to pull real income from their channel. The number of non-sponsored streamers is increasing, as well.

Related Articles
You can now live stream to YouTube from your phone if you have at least 1,000 subscribers
NASA and Amazon will stream from space in 4K for the first time on April 26
Amazon will live stream 10 NFL games this season, replacing Twitter
I chatted briefly with Ali Moiz, CEO of Streamlabs, about the state of the industry. In particular, I was afraid that with Twitch no longer growing like a weed (merely like a regular plant), that could put some dampers on the wild speculation about the future of the streaming business.
Moiz acknowledged that Twitch’s growth had slowed, but pointed out that was more due to healthy competition.
“For a new streamer starting today there’s a much greater choice than there was a few years ago. Back then basically anyone interested in live streaming had to go to Twitch,” he said. Now you have YouTube, Facebook, Instagram and half a dozen others.”
But, I asked, more options doesn’t mean more streamers or more viewers necessarily. Where’s the next five years of growth going to come from?
“In my view the biggest chunk of growth is going to come from outside of gaming. Mobile broadcasting is just getting started,” Moiz said. “Travel, fashion, beauty, concerts, food (that’s big in Korea). Gaming is going to have nice incremental growth, but it’s not going to double or triple like it has in the past.”
You can read the full report (they come out quarterly now, since the first one in January) over at Streamlabs’ Medium post.

Featured Image: ERIC PIERMONT/Getty Images
CLEAR, the biometric security firm popular in U.S. airports and stadiums, has raised $15 million from T. Rowe Price to expand their footprint. The company, led by CEO Caryn Seidman-Becker, is already partially owned by Delta Airlines.
“We are obsessed with our customers, and can’t wait to bring them more ways to use CLEAR. We lead the industry in secure biometric-powered customer experiences and the opportunities to expand into new verticals are endless,” said Seidman-Becker. “CLEAR is just scratching the surface of its growth potential, and we’re proud to have wonderful, long-term partners in T. Rowe Price to help us get there.”
CLEAR’s numbers are rising. There are 1 million members using biometrics at 21 airports, as well as six baseball stadiums and one NBA arena. LAX in Los Angeles will be the next airport to activate the technology and member enrollment is up 150 percent since last year.
The financing will move CLEAR into “new verticals” and add more airports and stadiums to the network. The company hopes to bring its biometric technologies to create seamless transfers and payments.
“We see a frictionless future where people no longer need to carry cash, credit cards or IDs with them,” said Seidman-Becker. “Our simple tap and go experience will fundamentally change the way we live, work and interact with the world.”
Colin O’Donnell
Contributor



Colin O’Donnell is the chief innovation officer of Intersection.

			More posts by this contributor:			
The 5 technologies that are going to define the next decade in cities
Bad UX kills



After years of talk about smart cities, people are wondering when — and where — will we start to see them really begin to take shape. What will they look like? How will we interact with them?
A smart city is more than the sum of its parts. With a street light here, a sensor there — when solutions are not clearly connected and without critical mass — you don’t get the combinatorial benefit of different systems working together.
But that’s all about to change. Comprehensive and large-scale smart city innovations will start to emerge where we least expect them. Not in our streets or in our buildings, but below them, in the subways, commuter rail and mass transit of global cities. Here’s why transit systems around the world are positioned to take center stage in a smart city revolution.
Transit systems are ripe for disruption (the good kind!)
While the rest of the world has been in a constant upheaval over the past decade, reinventing itself with technology and new business models, mass transit systems have stayed largely static — doggedly, determinedly moving millions of people each day with little influence from outside tech. Just the fact that your mobile device works underground is cause for celebration, and a single line of text on an LED readout telling you when the next train is arriving is a small miracle.
Compare that with how in just a few years’ time we’ve seen ridesharing transform how we move by car. Push button, get chauffeur. There is room to make a massive impact in transit.
Mass transit takes the human experience of cities and turns it up to 11
If culture clashes are what makes cities thrive — where ideas bump up against each other and swirl together to make new things like jazz, hip hop, the kimchi burger, the Cronut — nowhere does this friction play out more than within a transit system.
While suburban car commuters sit by themselves in little boxes, mass transit exposes us to new forms of art, music and culture. But more importantly, transit exposes us to humanity itself — where people of every racial, religious and socioeconomic background and of every ability get uncomfortably close to one another. It is truly the great humanizing and democratizing asset of cities.
If you a want path toward accelerating innovation at city scale — transit is the place to do it.
The thing that gets us so excited about smart cities is the potential to take the solitary experience of the internet — a person and a screen — and bring it into this heaving cultural mashup. Those self-selected, self-affirming circles of our internet experience need to be offset by the kind of diversity that exists in any 10-square-feet of mass transit. And when we add the intelligence of the internet to that kind of shared, democratic experience, we just might be able to reveal the true potential of the internet — to connect humans and make us more tolerant, understanding and empathetic.
And if you want to see the impact of new technology in cities, transit is where you can get the most immediate and intense feedback from people of all kinds — from digital natives to senior citizens, from financiers to refugees.
Transit authorities can get things done
There are so many barriers to entry that make getting things done in cities hard. The competing interests, distributed decision-making and regulations among a million committees, departments, community groups, private businesses — plus politics — it’s what makes cities great, but it also makes it difficult to move at the pace of technology.

But transit systems are different. They are generally operated and managed by a sole authority and act more like a corporation than a government bureaucracy. And because they are autonomous organizations, they have control over everything that happens inside them. Decisions and changes can be made quickly, and implemented with relative speed universally within the system. If you a want path toward accelerating innovation at city scale — transit is the place to do it.
Transit systems have what innovation requires to be successful — a built-in user base with massive scale
Transit already has built-in scale — millions of people use it every day, in every major city. And, unlike the complex web that makes up cities, transit is a complete, contained ecosystem. Every conceivable touchpoint of a journey exists, from planning to wayfinding, safety and security; from operational enhancements to advertising, communications and point-of-purchase.
This built-in user base and multifaceted journey opens the door for outside investment and innovation. Introducing even a small data-driven improvement that can be immediately deployed onto a flexible digital infrastructure can yield massive benefits.
There is an expectation gap
Getting around today in cities looks nothing like it did five years ago, let alone 10. A single trip a few miles away can easily involve two or three modes. And the cockpit of the rideshare I took recently had seven interactive displays with real-time information and services — the number in the typical train car? None. We have choices, and we want information and convenience.
And this hasn’t gone unnoticed by transit authorities. There’s been a subtle but important shift in the way they operate: Users are no longer simply riders, but customers. Providing safe, reliable service is table stakes — transit authorities know they need to deliver an experience in line with expectations.

Related Articles
Infiniti launches a startup lab in Toronto to focus on IoT and smart cities
If Trump wants an easy policy win, he should focus on funding smart cities
Kansas City is now a smart city
Department of Transportation to provide $165M to make U.S. cities smarter

And, now more than ever, the tech is there — inexpensive sensors, computer vision and high-resolution digital displays, location networks that provide contextual services to mobile devices, and data science and machine learning — to unlock that potential.
The consumer world has reinvented itself many times over in the past decade alone, but those advancements haven’t made it to mass transit in a comprehensive way. By bringing the best digital minds and ideas to the table alongside the institutional expertise of transit authorities, we can break down the barrier to let innovation in.
We don’t have the luxury of rebuilding centuries-old systems from the ground up, but we do have the ability to radically change them. A smart city approach — manifesting the internet in public space — will be the enabler of a transit experience that is more reliable, safer and efficient. And, in a place with such intense diversity, we hopefully will spark not just the digitization of physical space, but the enablement of a more human internet, and a more connected humanity.

Featured Image: Jerry Kestel / EyeEm/Getty Images
At the F8 conference today, Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg addressed this weekend’s shooting in Cleveland, which the suspected shooter filmed and posted on Facebook. The man later discussed the shooting during a Facebook Live broadcast, leading critics to accuse Facebook of not doing enough to censor violent content on the platform.
“We’re also going to work on getting more common ground; not just getting more opinions out there, but also helping to bring people closer together. We have a lot to do here. We have a full roadmap of products to help build groups and community, help build a more informed society, and help keep our community safe,” Zuckerberg said. “We have a lot more to do here. We’re reminded of this this week by the tragedy in Cleveland. Our hearts go out to the family and friends of Robert Godwin Sr., and we have a lot of work and we’ll keep doing all we can to keep tragedies like this from happening.”
In response to the shooting videos, Facebook said it would improve the speed at which it reviews user reports of violent content. Facebook said yesterday that the shooting video wasn’t reported until nearly two hours after it was posted. The company indicated that it would use artificial intelligence to detect violent videos and restrict the ways they are shared.
LinkedIn sounds like it’s getting a little less buttoned down under Microsoft — the social network has a new version of its Terms of Service going into effect on June 7, 2017, and the changes include a new privacy policy that covers new and upcoming LinkedIn features that aim to give profiles more visibility, and to make it easier to actually achieve the social “links” implied in the professional network’s name.
The new Privacy Policy covers LinkedIn’s decision to open up profile visibility to “certain third-party services,” in much the same way it makes that info available to search engines now to help you get more SEO magic. This is something that’s enabled by default, but LinkedIn does make it easy to opt out if you’re not into that kind of expanded distribution, and you can always specify what kind of specifics your profile contains.
LinkedIn also will be seeking out your various plaudits and accomplishments, and will suggest that you share those with your network to better demonstrate your value, I guess. Again, this is something you can opt out of if you’re not cool with the idea.
The social network also includes updated terms around productivity bots, a relatively recent addition to the LinkedIn arsenal. This is actually one of the opt-in items on the list, and if you do choose to participate, LinkedIn will offer to help your with messages by autogenerating simple responses, handling meeting scheduling or even breaking the ice (which should really not be a supremely involved experience on a professional social networking platform).
More interesting than its ability to support virtual connections, LinkedIn’s new policy covers an “upcoming feature” that will help LinkedIn members meet up IRL, at conferences, events and meetings where they’re already in relative proximity to one another
Again the new terms (which also include some modifications to the User Agreement set out by LinkedIn) don’t go into effect until June 7, so people have some time to parse them in greater detail. What’s interesting about this now is that it provides more insight into Microsoft’s priorities as it moves forward with LinkedIn’s product development.
Facebook is launching a couple of new features for its Messenger platform today. Among those is an update to its M virtual assistant, which can now help you order food through delivery.com, the launch of Messenger Codes, which are basically QR codes you can scan into Messenger, and better support for Game bots and turn-by-turn games.
The M virtual assistant added support for suggestions earlier this year, but with this update, it can now recognize when you are talking to your friends about getting dinner and suggest placing an order with delivery.com. That experience, Facebook says, includes group ordering and payment, too. This new feature is now available everywhere in the U.S. served by delivery.com.

Facebook Messenger is also getting a Game tab (which is rolling out today). This tab will now also get access to Game bots and Rich Gameplay (that is, turn-by-turn games). In total, more than 1.5 billion games have been played in Messenger over the last 90 days, Facebook says.
As for the QR codes, the experience is pretty much what you’d expect. You will be able to scan these QR codes at concerts, basketball games or other events and, after you’ve scanned them, a Messenger bot will pop up to provide you with more information. While QR codes never quite caught on (at least in the U.S.), which Facebook freely admits, this does look like an interesting way of using them and may just make them a tiny bit more popular.


Related Articles
Facebook Messenger launches group bots and bot discovery tab
Facebook launches beta of Spaces, its goofy and fun social VR platform
Facebook expands delegated account recovery in a play for the next billion users
For businesses, Facebook is obviously also launching tools to generate these codes. These businesses can now also work with different developers to provide different Messenger experiences. That means a business can have both a shopping and customer service bot, for example, and different vendors and developers can manage these separately.
On their Facebook Pages, these businesses now also get support for smart replies, which are powered by the Wit.ai bot engine. Through them, they can respond to frequently asked questions that customers regularly ask them (think business hours, directions, phone numbers, etc.).
In addition to all of this, Facebook also today announced major updates to its group bots and it’s making bot discovery, easier too.


Featured Image: Sean Gallup/Getty Images
Facebook’s VP of Partnerships, Ime Archibong, announced updates to Facebook Analytics as well as Facebook Login and Account Kit during his F8 keynote address. Analytics is getting greater customizability and a machine learning boost while Login and Account Kit are benefiting from additional transparency and accessibility.
Facebook analytics is a core product for businesses using the platform to drive growth. Today’s updates make it simultaneously easier to regularly monitor important metrics while increasing the value of individual insights. To this end, new custom dashboards put important reports on a single screen and enable users to put what’s important to them front and center.
But to actually provide deeper analysis, Facebook is integrating machine learning into its analytics platform. This opens up new possibilities for monitoring engagement and purchasing behavior in a relatively granular way. The tool can surface trends and present them to users in a ranked feed.
The company is also closing the gap between what happens in the world of social and what happens on brand websites and in brick and mortar stores. Businesses can now relate Page activity to purchases that occur on their websites. Omni-channel analytics also support offline conversions. To help organize customers across channels, Facebook is allowing for custom audience groupings and deeper user segmentation as part of a beta.
From within Facebook Analytics, users also can monitor Account Kit traffic. The tool makes it easy for users to log in to other apps and services, password free. Brands will further benefit from the ability to customize the design of the Account Kit login interface with company colors and relevant background images.
To maximize the audience that can benefit from Account Kit, Facebook is adding voice call support in 19 new regions. This offers an option other than SMS for users that might be unable to, or not want to, use text for verification. These same users will benefit from a new basic web SDK that opens up the swifter login experience to users facing low connectivity. Finally, all businesses can now implement account recovery using Facebook as an alternative to existing, clunky, password reset processes.
Facebook today launched two powerful ways for people to find Messenger bots to use, addressing the discovery problem that’s plagued the platform’s 100,000 developers.
Facebook’s new Chat Extensions lets you use Messenger bots in group chats so you can watch a sports game’s play-by-play together from theScore’s news ticker bot, collaborate on building a Spotify playlist, figure out which hotel you want to stay at with friends and book it via SnapTravel or get a consensus on booking a flight through Kayak. OpenTable, the NBA, Food Network, WSJ and other developers are also launching group bots today. Apple Music is coming soon.

TechCrunch reported last month that Facebook would launch these group bots today at F8. Until now, bot experiences were just you and the bot. But that puts a ton of pressure on the bot to seem human. Chat Extensions pose them more as assistants or tickers rather than conversation partners, better matching what’s feasible with today’s technology.

The second big piece of bot discovery news is the launch of a Discovery tab on Messenger, where people can see their recently used bots, browse bot categories, see trending experiences or search for specific bots. Users will be able to check out a preview screen about what a bot does before starting a conversation with one. Developers need to submit a form with this preview information to be included in the curated tab.

Finally, Facebook is expanding its M Suggestions feature that uses AI to scan your conversations and recommend Messenger features to use. M will now start to suggest bots from outside developers that could serve a need that users are talking about. For example, if someone says “we should order food,” M could recommend delivery.com’s bot for making an order.
Together, these could give bots on Messenger more traction through virality in groups and merit via Facebook’s choices of what’s best. That could attract more prestigious developers to the platform. Facebook launched Messenger bots last year, but users had a tough time finding good ones; many bots disappointed people because they relied on inadequate AI, or they were confusing to use. Onstage today at Facebook’s F8 conference, Messenger head David Marcus said “I’m glad we called it a beta.”
Facebook has been trying to improve bots with the option to navigate via menus instead of text commands. And at F8, Messenger also launched QR codes for the physical world that open a specific experience inside a bot, as well as more features to help businesses. Meanwhile, bots like SnapTravel, which has done $1 million-worth of hotel bookings inside Messenger, prove that in-chat commerce is starting to work.
With today’s updates, bot developers will have good reason to fight through the churn rates and lack of user understanding. With 1.2 billion users on Messenger, there are plenty of people who could try their bots.
At the F8 conference today, Facebook announced a bunch of updates to its Workplace by Facebook team communications tool, including a slew of new partnerships and new bot integrations, which all show a product that’s maturing to meet the needs of larger enterprise customers.
When Workplace by Facebook launched last fall, it was an attempt to take Facebook and put it into a business context. But working with businesses has a different set of requirements than consumers, and that means working with third-party business software in a seamless way. It’s certainly something that one of the company’s chief rivals in this space, Slack, has recognized and built into its product from the earliest days.
Today’s updates are about bringing that same type of integration, including file sharing, bots and compliance and governance tools, into the Workplace by Facebook experience. This kind of blending has been on the drawing board from the beginning, according to Julien Codorniou, vice president of Workplace.
“Being the communication layer and discovery platform for other services has always been part of the plan,” he told TechCrunch. “Workplace wants to be the app that connects everyone,” he added.
File service integrations
For starters, the company announced integrations with Box, Microsoft, Dropbox and Quip/Salesforce. That means when you share a file in a Facebook group, instead of just a link, you’ll see a thumbnail and when you click it, you go directly to the file for editing or commenting.
Photo: Facebook
Bret Taylor, CEO and co-founder at Quip, a productivity software company that Salesforce bought last summer for $750 million, says that these kinds of integrations are becoming increasingly important to businesses.
“One of the issues of modern cloud software is the explosion of services in a company. It is exacerbating [the problem of] where does data live and how do I interact with it. The vision is that [these services] can seamlessly interoperate and you don’t have jump back and forth to get the job done,” Taylor explained.
This isn’t exclusive to Workplace, and Taylor acknowledged Salesforce/Quip had similar connections in competing products, but as they are seeing customers using Workplace, they feel they need to be there too. “At the end of the day, if you don’t integrate with the tools your customer use, you’re going to lose a customer,” he said.
Got bots if you want ’em
The company is also introducing bots into the Workplace experience in both Messenger and Group chat, which puts it on par with what Slack has been doing for some time. These bots are powerful entities, which you can call upon to help out. For instance, if there is an equipment problem, you could call on @repairbot to find someone to fix it. The bot can acknowledge your request, locate an available person to undertake the repair and message back the name of the person taking care of it.
This ability to read messages, take actions and send messages is a powerful mix and can allow bots to take care of mundane tasks more quickly than human counterparts. These bots can work in Messenger in a one to one chat environment or Groups in a group chat.
Photo: Facebook
“The reason why we are so excited about custom bots is that we have over 100 bots at Facebook to power everyday experiences,” Codorniou said.
The company is working with a number of bot platforms, including Converse, PullString, The Bot Platform, kore.ai and Avaamo.
Enterprise-grade compliance
One of the big issues facing a company like Facebook as it makes its way into the enterprise is finding ways to link to compliance and governance systems already in place in the company. Without this, it’s awfully tough to gain the trust of IT and security professionals inside large organizations, who might have been conditioned not to trust the Facebook consumer tool.

Related Articles
Enterprise social comes roaring back
Workplace by Facebook begins to take shape
Facebook is about to learn that the enterprise is a different animal
Workplace by Facebook opens to sell enterprise social networking to the masses

Facebook seems to have recognized this, but rather than trying to build compliance and governance into the tool itself, it has chosen to partner with some companies that have expertise in the field, which is probably a smart way to go about it.
Those same IT pros, who might not trust this type of tool for starters, will probably be more comfortable with some known entities, rather than something Facebook built itself, at least initially.
Compliance partners include CSDisco, Netskope, Smarsh and Skyhigh.
Although it was launched just last October, Facebook reports 14,000 organizations using the tool, which have created more than 400,000 groups. As a means of comparison, Slack reports 5 million daily active users.
All of these announcements have been designed to make it easier for Workplace to be an integral part of the company experience and to compete to get a piece of that communications business, but it’s also a tacit recognition that it needs to provide a tool set, partnerships and integrations that enterprise customers are going to demand.

Featured Image: Bloomberg/Getty Images
Facebook’s been steadily growing its Developer Circles initiative in recent months and today during its annual F8 conference the company provided an update on growth and announced a new partnership with Udacity. Developer Circles is Facebook’s community-driven initiative for engaging with and training developers.
Facebook’s VP of Partnerships, Ime Archibong, explained that more than 80 percent of engineers involved with Developer Circles are based internationally. This growth is healthy, but it’s not without its own unique logistical challenges. As of now, community leaders within Developer Circles help organize training, but with a new Udacity partnership, Facebook will be augmenting learning with formalized programs.
These new mobile developer courses will help get engineers-in-training up to speed on Facebook tools like Account Kit for building one-step logins into apps. Udacity says the courses will be free and require about 10 hours each to complete.
Topics could eventually cover the basics of using React and building bots in Messenger. The courses will be available within Developer Circles Facebook Groups and through the Udacity site.
This is not Udacity’s first partnership with a major tech company to produce content. Back at Google I/O in 2015, Udacity announced it was working to create an Android Development Nanodegree. 
Google hasn’t had a terrific record with building social networks, but its Timeline feature for Google Maps is actually surprisingly similar to a primary facet of most social products, and it’s a very interesting addition to an app that has largely been focused solely on getting you from point A to point B. Now, iOS users can find out what their Android counterparts have been enjoying with Timeline in Maps since 2015.
What is Timeline? It’s basically a browser history but for IRL navigation. Google frames it as a great way to look back and find that restaurant you thought was terrific during your most recent vacation, or to find out what day you actually dropped off your dry cleaning (versus when you’re pretty sure you did). Timeline has been live for Android users, and on the desktop, for a little while now, but iOS users get the chance to join in today, and Google’s iterating on the feature a bit to welcome the iPhone faithful.
New additions include the ability to easily control what shows up in your Timeline and what doesn’t, and edit specific items to tweak the accuracy of the information if the auto-tagged locations and activities weren’t quite right. You also can get to Your Timeline more quickly, from the place cards that pop up when you tap a location you’ve actually been to in the past. It’ll show you (and only you, when you’re actually logged in while using Maps) when you last visited, potentially triggering an immersive experiential memory moment like in Assassin’s Creed (but probably not).
There’s also now a feature that will send you monthly emails giving you a monthly summary of your travel history during the past 30-day period, giving you a look at everything you did (or making you feel lazy — or content, no judgement — for not having done much).
Of course, it’s easy to see how some users will be unnerved rather than delighted to see just how much of their movement is logged in Maps. But you can always opt out of storing your location history with Google if it makes you that uncomfortable. The eternal dance of exchanging privacy for features and services continues, as it has since the dawn of the digital age.
Facebook is expanding a new account recovery tool it debuted in January that allows other sites such as GitHub to establish encrypted account recovery tokens that are stored by Facebook. When a user loses their GitHub password and gets locked out of their account, he sends the recovery token from Facebook back to GitHub, proving his identity.
It’s a slick security feature that will be an easy sell for privacy pros, but it’s also a crucial component of Facebook’s strategy to make sure the next billion internet users center their online experiences around Facebook.
At the F8 developer conference today, Facebook is releasing SDKs and documentation that will allow developers aside from GitHub to set up Delegated Account Recovery for their own test users. Once the setup is in place, developers can apply to Facebook’s beta program and start making the feature available to their users.
Delegated Account Recovery is designed to make account recovery more secure. If you’ve ever forgotten a password (and who hasn’t?) you know the recovery process usually involves a link sent to your email or a security code texted to your phone. But email can easily be compromised if a user’s password has been included in a data breach or if they’ve fallen for a phishing scheme, and texted security codes can get lost in transmission if you’ve upgraded to a new phone or changed your number.
“The system is designed to be resilient even to large scale data dumps of email and user databases that have become too common. With independently held cryptographic keys needed to use them, recovery tokens offer a level of security that we don’t see from email,” Facebook security engineer Brad Hill explained in a blog post. Here’s how the recovery flow works:

But even if the highest level of account security isn’t a selling point for some users, Hill gave me a succinct and compelling pitch for why Delegated Account Recovery is better than other methods when he debuted the feature back in January: “We can get you back into your account even if you drop your phone off the boat.”
Facebook launched the feature with GitHub, whose users are inclined to be more technical and can more easily navigate the set-up process. Now that Facebook is expanding Delegated Account Recovery to other sites, it will need to sell developers on the idea that the extra set-up hurdles — and the association with Facebook — is worth the switch from email.
Some online retailers might be quick to adopt Delegated Account Recovery, but it’s easy to imagine Amazon, Google or Twitter being resistant to the idea. That’s part of why the project is open source: other companies could establish themselves as identity hubs, too. “Eliminating fraud is a shared goal, not a competitive space,” Hill said. “Having multiple providers will be helpful to this ecosystem.” If the ecosystem grows, security could expand too. Users could store recovery tokens for encrypted data across several different sites, so a user would need to prove access to multiple accounts in order to decrypt the data.
Getting other companies to participate, either by storing recovery tokens with Facebook or issuing tokens themselves, will help Facebook grow outside the U.S. and Europe, where email recovery is already uncommon.
“Facebook user surveys are revealing a decline in the use of personal email and a growing preference for phone number as an account identifier. In some parts of Africa and the Asia Pacific region, the preference for phone number over email is as high as 70%,” Hill explained. “And in many of those same places where phone number is most popular, it is also a very unstable identifier. People often have multiple SIMs cards, switch numbers frequently to get a better deal, and treat phone numbers as spam collection accounts like people in English-speaking markets often do with email.”
Because users in these markets are abandoning email in exchange for phone numbers as their primary identity hub, Facebook needs to follow that trend. Establishing itself as the keyholder for users’ online identities gives Facebook continuity, even as its users abandon SIM cards or change email addresses. Like Internet.org, Facebook’s program to provide free access to some internet services, Delegated Account Recovery could make Facebook a foundational part of the online experience for the next billion users.
“If you depend on email for recovery, you’re going to miss connecting with a lot of people. And, if you are signing people up to your service with a phone number, it is critical you have a way to recover when that number changes,” Hill added.
If Facebook can instigate wide adoption of Delegated Account Recovery, it will be a win for user security inside and outside of Facebook, as well as for the company’s expansion plans. Now that the feature is open to developers outside GitHub, we’ll see how widely it will be adopted.
More than three years after its acquisition of Oculus, Facebook is a product even more deeply intertwined with people’s online identities. Today, Facebook is reaching an important milestone as it launches the first significant integration of social virtual reality into its core product.
Facebook Spaces launches in beta today on Oculus Rift + Touch. The product is a first taste of Facebook’s ambitions to bring social interaction into 3D virtual spaces.
With Spaces, those who have bought into the Oculus ecosystem can connect their Facebook accounts and dive into an environment where communication isn’t about chat messages, but voice and avatar body language.

In the app, up to four friends logged-in to their Facebook accounts can join a “space” and chat, draw, watch 360 videos, make video calls on Messenger and take VR selfies of their cartoonish avatars (which it can create for you based on recently tagged photos). It’s all pretty basic stuff focused around having fun at the moment; everything feels quite a bit more light-hearted than the cold, bulky Oculus hardware you’re using to experience Spaces. I had a chance to dive into Spaces for an early demo and it’s clear that Facebook is building this for the masses, even though the masses don’t own a Rift right now. The space is quirky, fun and not taking itself too seriously.


Oculus wants you to feel the future, Facebook wants you to feel familiar pic.twitter.com/qzuDIdz2Ww
— Lucas Matney (@Lucas_Matney) April 18, 2017



The most noteworthy highlight of Spaces’ release is that it will be launching on the Oculus Rift but will soon be expanding to other VR platforms. “We eventually want to be on all the VR platforms,” Facebook product manager Mike Booth told me. What’s key about this is that Facebook — despite owning a popular VR hardware platform — wants to be a Google in the VR space, not an Apple.
Don’t expect Spaces to be available on the smartphone-based VR systems that you see today. Samsung and Oculus’ Gear VR platform relies on 360 fixed-point movement, which doesn’t lend itself well to expressing yourself in VR. For the Gear VR, Facebook has shown off Facebook 360, an app for viewing 360 photos and videos.
Spaces represents the first .1 percent of Facebook’s vision for Social VR according to Booth, but it’s clear that the app represents a lot of calculation on Facebook’s part.
In a recent earnings call, Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg called virtual reality something that won’t see its full potential realized for another 10 years. Currently, there are between 30-50 Facebook employees working on Social VR, but with augmented reality and virtual reality growing central to Facebook’s core product, these teams are sure to grow massive as more people buy headsets.
Augmented reality may be the key to Facebook dominating the next decade of mobile, but Facebook is building something incredibly forward-thinking as it rethinks how people experience deeply human emotions in virtual reality. Spaces is just a first step, but it’s an important one.
Spaces is available now  for free download in the Early Access section of the Oculus Store.
Advertisement		





“I guess I’m not that worried about that,” Mark Zuckerberg said in response to criticism about Facebook copying Snapchat. He defended the “misunderstood” strategy as laying groundwork for Facebook’s new Camera Effects Platform for developers that launched today.
“The first chapter that made sense was to release products that people were familiar with . . . but the unique thing that we’re going to do is we’re not just going to build basic cameras, we’re going to build the first mainstream augmented reality platform.” 
While Snapchat might have popularized animated AR selfie masks and filters, it lacks a platform for developers to contribute their own creative tools for people to use. Facebook plans to draw on its decade of platform experience to enlist an army of developers to build an endless array of AR special effects and interactive experiences triggered by real-world objects and places. 
Jeers that Facebook had stopped innovating and become a Snapchat clone intensified the past few weeks. Facebook has recently added Snapchat-style Stories and camera special effects to all four of its core social apps: Facebook, Messenger, WhatsApp and Instagram. The move seemed like an overkill response to competition by Snap that made Facebook look desperate and less interesting as an employer fighting for top talent.

But when asked for a response to critics who say Facebook had stopped innovating, Zuckerberg brushed them off, insisting this was actually just Facebook preparing all its products for the new unified cross-app Camera Effects Platform. While Facebook Stories just launched this month, he says the strategy has been in the works for a while:

“We started it about a year ago. The point was that we kind of felt like we’re going to need cameras because video and photos are becoming more central but the unique thing that we’re going to do is we’re not just going to build basic cameras, we’re going to build the first mainstream augmented reality platform.
​But the thing is, you try to chunk up your releases into specific things along the way. And even though we’re going to talk about it at F8, we’re not going to release it all at once even though this is kind of the next chapter. And the first chapter that made sense was to release products that people were familiar with and to kind of stabilize the product before you try to build a platform on top of that, right? It’s really tough to build the product and the platform at the same time.
 So I think internally, we just understood where we were going. We’ll roll out the different pieces at different times, but that was partially why we’re rolling all the stuff out quickly as we build a bunch of infrastructure to be able to do all that.”

Essentially, adding to Facebook’s various apps an in-app camera with basic augmented reality effects was just the start of a larger platform play. But this first step has still swayed public opinion to see Facebook as a copycat. Snap turned down acquisition offers from Facebook years ago, and Facebook has been taking inspiration from Snapchat ever since. When asked about the perception of Facebook being less innovative, Zuckerberg told me:


 “I guess I’m not that worried about that. I mean, I feel like we do different kinds of work in different areas. I mean, I think certainly, no one who looks at the solar-powered planes that we’re building or the satellites that were making, and thinks that that stuff isn’t interesting.
I think one thing that people probably don’t think about as much as we do is innovation to serve everyone in the community, not just the high end, right? So we focus on a lot of things like Facebook Lite. It’s up to 200 million people in like a year . . . I tend to worry more and think more about the substance of what our community actually wants.”

That bit about not just serving the high end might be a subtle jab at Snap, which has decided to focus on more lucrative Western markets like the U.S. than on international growth in the developing world. A former Snap employee is suing the company and made unverified claims that Evan Spiegel said Snapchat is “only for rich people” and he didn’t want to “expand into poor countries like India and Spain.” Snap refuted that Spiegel ever said that, noting it’s “grateful” to Indian users and that “Snapchat is for everyone.”

Zuckerberg, meanwhile, concluded that he expects perceptions of Facebook will become more accurate as today’s news of its augmented reality platform shows it’s trying to go far beyond copying Snap.

“I think that over the long term, the perception I guess kind of equalizes to the right place. And I think building a company, you have to be willing to accept that you’re not going to get everything right all the time. People aren’t always going to be happy with you. They’re not always going to understand what you’re doing all the time. But if you’re guided by those short-term things, I don’t think you’re going to do the right things in the long term. But if you kind of have a sense of where you want to go over time and you’re willing to be misunderstood or make errors along the way, then that’s kind of the price of entry to anything worth doing.”




Spotify will be launching a bot for Facebook Messenger users that lets friends discover and share music directly in their chats. The bot, which takes advantage of Facebook’s soon-to-launch chat extensions, includes search tools, music recommendations, and sharing functionality for sending 30-second song clips to friends that can either be listened to within Messenger, or launched in Spotify’s app to hear the song in full.
The announcement of the new bot was published to Spotify’s blog this afternoon, but the post is not publicly available at present. It was likely posted ahead of Facebook’s big announcement at its developer conference F8, where it’s expected to unveil new features for Messenger, including “chat extensions,” which will expand the default Messenger experience with new functionality.
However, we were able to read through the details of Spotify’s post, thanks to the magic of RSS readers. (Google it.)
Explains the company, the Spotify bot will be able to serve up music recommendations based on mood, activity, or genres, or you can search across Spotify’s catalog to share songs, albums and playlists with your friends in your Messenger chat.
Of course, you could already paste Spotify links into Messenger before, which would include a preview of the item in question – like an image thumbnail and song or album title, for example. But with the new Messenger bot, friends will be able to listen to a 30-second clip in chat for the first time, without having to exit to Spotify. (If they want to hear the full song, of course, they’ll still need to visit Spotify.)
The Spotify bot appears to be an expansion on the company’s earlier integration with Messenger, which was more limited. Last year, the company rolled out a Messenger add-on that would launch Spotify for the search and discovery portion, with the option to share the photo of the song, album or playlist with a friend as well as a link that would again launch Spotify when clicked.
The new bot, however, brings the search and discovery features into Messenger itself, instead of being an external experience.
To use the Spotify bot, the blog post says, you’ll tap on the blue plus (“+”) icon to the left of the text box in Messenger, then tap on Spotify to launch the bot. A new window pops up, overlaid on the chat, where you can find the music you want to share.
Thanks to the photo shared along with the blog post, it looks like we’ve got a sneak peek at other Messenger extensions, as well – names like Instacart, OpenTable, Quip and Airbnb are featured here, too.
When the bot officially launches, it will be available at http://m.me/Spotify. Facebook is expected to announce Chat Extensions at F8 around 11 AM PT, so that would be the time to check back as the post implies the bot is going live today in conjunction with Facebook’s news.
Update, 2:15 pm et: Facebook officially announced this on stage at F8. It said that Apple Music integration was also in the works.
Facebook will rely on an army of outside developers to contribute augmented reality image filters and interactive experiences to its new Camera Effects platform. After today’s Facebook F8 conference, the first effects will become available inside Facebook’s Camera feature on smartphones, but the Camera Effects platform is designed to eventually be compatible with future augmented reality hardware, such as eyeglasses.
While critics thought Facebook was just mindlessly copying Snapchat with its recent Stories and Camera features in Facebook, Messenger, Instagram and WhatsApp, Mark Zuckerberg tells TechCrunch his company was just laying the groundwork for today’s Camera Effects platform launch.

Facebook’s Camera Effects Platform offers object recognition
Because stylish, affordable AR glasses might be years away but everyone already has a camera phone, Zuckerberg tells me “the first augmented reality platform that becomes mainstream isn’t going to be glasses, it’s going to be cameras.” He says other apps (like Snapchat) have been keeping their augmented reality experience creation tools to themselves, but “building an open platform I think is going to be one of the big advances that pushes this forward . . . all developers can work on [the open platform] so that way you don’t just have 10 or 20 effects but you have thousands.”
That’s the same logic behind my August thought piece on why the camera should be Facebook’s next platform, which it now is. Developers let Facebook offer a much wider diversity of experiences.
Facebook is now allowing developers to apply for access to the closed beta of the platform’s AR Studio tool. It will allow developers to use precise location, object recognition and depth detection to create their effects. Facebook’s camera will be able to recognize specific objects like a coffee cup, and bubble up related effects to users like steam coming off the cup or sharks swimming inside the coffee.
Meanwhile, anyone can now use the Frame Studio to upload simple, static overlaid image filters that will appear in Facebook Camera to their friends or a Page’s fans. There’s no need for coding knowledge to use Frame Studio, you just upload an image and your name will appear on the Frame’s preview and News Feed posts to give you credit.
Facebook’s Frame Studio lets anyone create an image filter
For now Facebook won’t allow any branding or advertising unless pre-approved, though it will eventually monetize the platform, with a spokesperson saying “We are focused on making this product great for people before introducing paid ways for businesses to participate.”





The three categories of augmented reality content
Zuckerberg imagines AR experiences breaking down into three major categories: augmenting objects in the physical world with additional information like putting directions atop the street or a restaurant’s reviews on their storefront, layering new virtual objects onto reality like a chess board or working television and enhancing objects that are already there with extra effects, like giving you a glitter beard or adding a castle turret to your apartment building.
Zuckerberg sees three areas for AR experiences (from left): Overlaying information, adding virtual objects and enhancing real objects
Zuckerberg tells me people underestimate AR as just, “Oh, a lot of people are using these primitive tools because, I don’t know, like this is what kids do now.” But he believes that as the necessary tech finally arrives and developers get creative, we’ll be doing much more than just adding fake mustaches to our faces.
Developers could make informational tools like overlaid suggestions from experts on businesses, interactive games and mind-bending art that Zuckerberg says would be impossible to create in the real world. Meanwhile, users will be able to add augmented reality notes to different specific locations, so they could tell friends their favorite dish at a restaurant.
Anyone can use the simple Frame Studio to upload static camera effects
Developers can user three inputs to trigger their augmented reality effects: Face Tracker (but not identity or facial recognition), Sensor data, such as the gyroscope and location, and Scripting APIs to pull in data from other apps and respond to user inputs in real time. Launch partners and experiences include Manchester United pulling in soccer match data and “GOOAALL!” image overlays with crowd noises, while game developer EA has built a Mass Effect-themed helmet mask that pulls in stats from your progress in the game. Nike will overlay a sweatband on your head and pull in your recent running route as an overlaid map.
AR Studio developers can also make effects for Facebook Live, with effects launching today including an overlaid viewer polling This or That feature and comment hashtags that surface a Giphy Live animated GIF the broadcaster can show on-screen.
Facebook Live’s new augmented reality effects can be built with the Camera Effects Platform’s AR Studio tool
Zuckerberg’s vision of an AR world
For now, Zuckerberg says that at Facebook, “we definitely see ourselves as more on the software and services side.” Luckily, the next phase of AR on camera phones won’t require special hardware. “We don’t need to build the phones because the phones are already there.” Yet he admits, “In the beginning of any platform, the hardware and software are not separable,” so when AR glasses technology comes of age, Facebook might end up making its own.
At that point, Zuckerberg’s grand vision sees augmented reality as an economic equalizer. “The ability to just have glasses or eventually contact lenses where you can overlay whatever information you want . . .[means] we could put a TV on the wall and have it be a $1 app instead of a $500 piece of hardware that a lot of people can’t afford. So if the glasses cost $500 or whatever it is, you’re saving a ton of money compared to all the other hardware that you would have to buy.”

And that’s where augmented reality blends with Zuckerberg’s 6,000-word manifesto on the future of community. One aspect of his letter discussed how automation could force some people out of traditional jobs and into roles more directly serving their community and creating art. AR could make the latter easier and more affordable.
“I think more people are going to be doing work and spending more of their time . . . connecting with people and expressing themselves and doing art,” Zuckerberg tells me. “And that I think dovetails very well with an AR world where a lot of what we’re going to be able to do is just about creating ideas and crafting them and sharing them. In AR, paint is free.”
The previous computing platforms were entirely digital and accessible to anyone connected to the internet. But the real world is huge — bigger than even Facebook can fill with augmented reality experiences. By opening this developer platform, Facebook doesn’t have to build everything by itself. While Snapchat might have had a headstart in bringing AR to consumers, Facebook has just mapped out how it plans to take augmented reality several steps further.
Theranos has been agreeing to a lot of things to keep it afloat lately. Today, the company once known for its one-drop blood testing tech has agreed to pay out $4.65 million in refunds to Arizonans who purchased blood tests between 2013 and 2016.
The company also agreed this week to resolve differences with the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS), which had earlier labeled Theranos’ main lab as having “serious deficiencies” and said it was putting patient health and safety in “immediate jeopardy.”
Theranos has also agreed not to operate its own labs for at least two years and has agreed to pay a $30,000 fine as part of that CMS settlement. The regulatory agency, which oversees blood testing labs, has reinstalled Theranos’ lab operating certification as a result.
It was also revealed last month that founder Elizabeth Holmes had agreed to give investors her shares in the company if they promised not to sue. Theranos has found itself in a heap of lawsuits from consumers, former partners and investors after its tangle with faulty test results and government intervention.
This new attempt to play nice and agree to things seems to be an effort to keep the company going. Theranos had to pivot to working on a “miniLab,” which is essentially a lab on a chip in a desktop box, last year, dropping two-thirds of its workforce in the effort. The company also reportedly has just a quarter of its $800 million in funding left and is facing a $140 million lawsuit from former partner Walgreens.
It’s still not clear if the agreement with the CMS will have any influence on other ongoing investigations from the Department of Justice and U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission or if the efforts to appease investors and switch to the new product will be enough to save the company, but Theranos did say in a statement it, “looks forward to working with regulatory authorities to secure approval for these innovative technologies.”
More revolving doors at a London venture capital firm. TechCrunch has learned that Ophelia Brown has left LocalGlobe, the VC fund founded by father and son duo Robin and Saul Klein.
In her role as General Partner, Brown led investments in a number of promising European startups, including CheckRecipient, Beamery, Cuvva, Debut, and Echo. According to her LinkedIn profile, she was also instrumental in raising LocalGlobe’s first fund.
“It’s true I’m moving on from LocalGlobe,” the departing VC tells me. “Not much I can share at this time but I can say I’m definitely staying in venture and I promise you’ll be the first to know as soon as I can say more! In the meantime, I’m enjoying continuing to work with my portfolio companies and supporting LocalGlobe from outside the firm”.

Related Articles
Fred Destin leaving Accel to focus on Seed and earlier-stage investing
Also confirming Brown’s departure, LocalGlobe’s Saul Klein says that she will “remain active alongside the team with the companies she has been working with. Everyone at LocalGlobe really looks forward to working with her more in the future”.
That Brown is “staying in venture” is unsurprising, though none of my sources have been able to figure out exactly what she plans to do next. No doubt she has plenty of options, given her reputation in U.K. investment circles. Before joining LocalGlobe, Brown spent four years at Index Ventures where she led investments in Big Health, Call9, MarvelApp, Osper, and Typeform.
With that said, the timing is a little out of the blue, especially given that, according to chatter within the VC community here in London, LocalGlobe is close to or has possibly closed a second fund. “Nothing formal to report just yet, Steve,” said Klein when asked if that was indeed the case.
At three years old, Oak HC/FT is a young firm. But its investors clearly have faith in the outfit. It closed its debut fund with $500 million in late 2014; yesterday, it closed its second fund with $600 million.
Having ties to a company that investors know well goes a long way in explaining their trust. Oak HC/FT spun out of Oak Investment Partners, a powerhouse that manages more than a dozen funds focused on private equity-type investments in tech and has invested billions of dollars in hundreds of companies since its 1978 founding.
The younger carve-out — which is focus exclusively on financial and healthcare technology companies — also has its share of star power, including Annie Lamont, who joined Oak in 1982 and is the managing partner of Oak HC/FT; her many bets over the years include Castlight Health, a health benefits platform that went public in 2014, and Poynt, a three-year-old, software-enabled point-of-sale device that merchants use to accept credit and debit cards.
The firm, which features seven full-time investors (plus three analysts), also counts among its four venture partners Zeke Emanuel, the famous oncologist and bioethicist.
Oak HC/FT typically looks to invest between $5 million and $50 million in growth-stage companies, and between $15 million and $35 million in earlier-stage venture startups. Some of its largest bets to date include LDI, a full-service pharmacy benefit management company; VillageMD, a management services company that partners with healthcare providers to improve care delivery; and, on the fintech side, Insureon, an online agency that provides insurance protection services for small businesses.
Worth noting: The firm does not define healthcare as encompassing bioengineering startups or medical devices, but rather pharmaceutical services, alternative-care delivery models and sub-population management companies.
Other investments include Aspire Health, a Nashville-based provider of home and outpatient-based palliative care; Feedzai, a San Mateo, Ca.-based startup that uses machine learning to reduce financial fraud; and Trov, a next-generation insurance platform in Danville, Ca., that sells on-demand micro insurance for products.
Last month, the firm saw its first exit, too: Thermo Fisher Scientific’s acquisition of Core Informatics, a cloud-based platform supporting scientific data management. Terms of the deal were not disclosed. According to Crunchbase, the 11-year-old company had raised $22.5 million from investors, including $17.5 million in Series B funding from Oak HC/FT in 2015.
Creative types looking for software to help seed and spark inspiration don’t usually have to look too far. There are a fair few options to play with — whether it’s a mainstream visual sharing platform like Pinterest or a design-focused moodboard-maker like Niice. But just as writers have a variety of workspace preferences, the needs of visual creatives are hardly uniform. So the Australian startup behind Milanote reckons there’s room for another approach here.
Milanote’s platform feels part Evernote, part Pinterest — indeed, it describes itself as an “Evernote for creatives” — given it’s offering users digital spaces (“boards”) paired with a drag and drop interface that can be used to add and position photos and notes to create visual moodboards or display a grouping of ideas. Its boards are also designed for storing (and/or linking) to related assets — nesting assets within new boards acting like folders.
Boards can also be shared so groups can collaborate and view updates across a project. And Milanote includes a to-do list feature. So, all in all, the platform feels like more of a multipurpose tool than purely a place for designers to play with visuals (though of course you can do that too). But you could also use it to organize and keep on top of research, say, or to create a more visual checklist or chronicle of an event.
The platform actually started as an internal tool for the founders’ other business (a UX agency) but they decided to spin it out — launching Milanote in February, and garnering some 35,000 users thus far, according to CEO Ollie Campbell. At this point he says the tool is being used by “designers, writers, marketers and other creative professionals” — working at companies such as Facebook, Apple, Uber, Dropbox, Google, Adobe, Sony and Nike.
The team has just closed a $780,000 seed round, led by Simon Martin, the former CFO of MYOB. This will be spent on expanding Milanote’s feature set to support what Campbell dubs “key creative tasks [such as] gathering inspiration from around the web” (for that it has a “Pinterest style web clipper” in the works), as well as on support for video embedding and for more file types.
They are also planning to strengthen the collaboration features — including by adding the ability for users to get feedback from clients, and to comment on updates.
“Milanote is a very ‘horizontal” tool (like Trello/Evernote etc) so we have users from all different industries and roles. Construction workers, poets, artists, authors, game designers, you name it. We have users who are writing novels, planning sermons and organising art exhibitions. But our core target audience is what we call ‘visual creative professionals’,” he says when asked who the core user is.
“Creativity is all about synthesising and combining different pieces of information into something new. The problem lots of people face is that their creative work is spread across multiple tools and platforms — images in Pinterest, notes in Evernote, tasks in Trello, files in Dropbox, messages in Slack. This fragmentation makes it impossible to see the whole picture, which makes it harder to figure things out,” Campbell adds.
“The key benefit of Milanote is having all of your creative work in one place. This lets you see connections between different pieces of information and trigger new ideas.”
Milanote is a freemium SaaS, so there’s a free version with a cap on the number of notes, images or links that can be added to boards, with unlimited storage unlocked at a price — pricing being dependent on whether it’s a sole user or a team.
The core push to get visual creatives centralizing more of their project work within Milanote’s nested board structure does of course amp up the potential storage requirements which plays into its pricing structure. Though it remains to be seen how much demand there is from visual creatives to do more of their “communicating spatially”, as the team puts it, vs using a series of digital tools at different points of their creative workflow process — be it Slack for comms, Dropbox for hosting (and sharing) files, Pinterest for making and sharing moodboards, Google Docs for collaborating and so on.
As with any job role that involves playing around with ideas, it’s likely to be a case of ‘horses for courses’. But Milanote reckons its platform can at least be a contender in the race to gobble up creatives’ dollars.
In the battle to lure artists to its platform, Spotify has used exclusives, free advertising, the promise of more listeners, and open access to data artists care about, like number of fans and listens. On that latter front, Spotify released a data dashboard called Fan Insights in late 2015, allowing artists to see how well their music is performing on the service. Today, Spotify is taking the beta label off this service – which is now rebranded as “Spotify for Artists” – and making it accessible to all artists and management teams.
The new dashboard, like Fan Insights before, will offer data on an artist’s music and their fans including demographic details like age, gender and location.
It shows which Spotify features fans are using to discover and play an artist’s songs – something that can help with crafting promotions and partnerships. And it can inform artists about what other bands and musicians their fans like, which helps artists figure out who to collaborate or tour with, for example.

And, of course, it will give data on listens – a figure that gets updated in real-time as the artist’s music plays – as well as song data, playlist data, and notifications when fans add a track to their playlists.
With the relaunch as Spotify for Artists, the platform has broadened its scope beyond just music data, and will also serve as artists’ new home for everyone they need from the service.
This includes getting verified (to receive the checkmark on their profile – something that required a separate form before), getting support from Spotify, and even customizing their artist profile page.

Artists will be able to upload their own photo to the service, as well as further customize their profile by offering their “pick” – which can be a featured song of their own, or one from another musician they want to support. They can also create and share their own playlists – again either featuring their own music or tracks from others.
The company says that over the past 17 months, tens of thousands of artists joined the Fan Insights beta, which helped to inform the new features rolling out now with the public launch. Those existing users will be automatically upgraded to the new Spotify for Artists, while others can get started by accessing their profile page on the service, available here.

The dashboard’s launch is a shot across Apple’s bow, which has struggled with helping artists engage with their fans on its own streaming platform, Apple Music. The company tried again to add a social layer to its iTunes Store with the launch of Connect in 2015, but it didn’t pan out, given that today’s artists engage fans directly via Facebook and Twitter. (Connect was later demoted to a less prominent position in the software.)
Giving artists the data and therefore the power to help themselves in the complex streaming industry – where fans are listening across platforms, across services, and not necessarily tuning into the radio or buying records – may go a long way to attract artists to Spotify’s platform. This has the broader effect of helping Spotify expand its catalog and become a place where fans feel like their artists are more accessible and engaged, which in turn could boost subscriptions.
Spotify has made a bit bet on data, with strategic acquisitions as well, like The Echo Nest, as well as Sonalytic, MightyTV, Seed Scientific, and others.
The company says it plans to add new features for its dashboard in the future, as artists continue to offer feedback.
SeatGeek is announcing a deal to acquire TopTix for $56 million.
While SeatGeek has made acquisitions before, this is its biggest, and the company funded the deal by raising a $57 million Series D led by Glynn Capital. (Previous investors Accel, Causeway Media Partners, Haystack Partners, Mousse Partners and Technology Crossover Ventures also participated.)
“We really weren’t thinking money,” SeatGeek’s Jack Groetzinger told me. (He’s pictured above with his co-founder, Russell d’Souza.) “We were in a pretty strong position, with cash on the balance sheet, but it felt like [this acquisition] was too good to pass up.”
He suggested that SeatGeek and TopTix make for a particularly good match because while his company has focused on building the best consumer experience for finding events and buying tickets, TopTix works on the back end, creating the tools that allow venues to accept tickets — in fact, TopTix currently processes 80 million tickets a year for customers, including the Royal Dutch Football Association, Buckingham Palace and the Ravinia Festival.
TopTix customers will become SeatGeek customers, and TopTix co-founder Eli Dagan will continue to lead the company’s engineering team in Israel.
“By marrying those two things together, we’re creating a very powerful full stack that’s miles ahead of the legacy ticketing companies,” Groetzinger said.

Related Articles
SeatGeek's new Pano feature gives ticketbuyers a 360-degree view of the stadium
SeatGeek moves beyond resale tickets with new 'Open' platform
SeatGeek will calculate how much that ticket is worth
 SeatGeek and TopTix were already working together on the launch of SeatGeek Open, a platform allowing sports teams and venues to sell tickets directly, so the acquisition is supposed to help the company expand Open more aggressively. (SeatGeek, which launched at the TechCrunch50 conference, previously focused on resale tickets.) Supposedly, the Open platform helped its first customer, Major League Soccer team Sporting Kansas City, increase online sales by 61 percent from the previous season.
While working with TopTix on the Sporting Kansas City deal, Groetzinger said he got a good look at the technology, and he liked what he saw.
“Usually when you get under-the-hood with something like this, you uncover unpleasantness,” he said. “This was quite the opposite — we were even more impressed.”

Featured Image: SeatGeek
We need to have a conversation about medical insurance claims, because the system is ridiculous. You are told you need something, not knowing the cost, and then, after getting the thing, you must wait months down the road for the final bill to appear when it’s good and ready. And sometimes it’s not clear if you are in or out of your preferred network, or what’s covered. On top of that, a lot of the billing is written down on actual paper and then faxed to various parties, making it prone to human error.
One NerdWallet study found rampant hospital billing errors had resulted in overcharges of up to 26 percent, and nearly half of all Medicare claims contained billing errors.
It’s a pain to deal with, and most people aren’t equipped to know all the codes or have time to jump through all the hoops it takes to get a correction. So Rachael Norman decided to do something about it. Once a Stanford pre-med student, Norman co-founded Better, a startup advocating on your behalf to reduce your medical bills.
The startup works through both automation and human-powered filing of insurance claims on your behalf. You download the app, fill out some information to verify you are who you say you are and then snap a picture of your medical bill and you’re done. Better then starts looking for errors and contacting your insurance to see what it can whittle your bill down to.
The startup says it will file out-of-network claims for any medical expenses, including therapy, psychiatry, acupuncture, chiropractic care, optometry, dental work, lab tests and medication, so it’s ideal for those visiting medical practices that say they take your insurance but leave it up to you to file the claim.
Patient advocates who typically do this kind of work already exist, but they often charge a hefty 20 to 30 percent and it’s pretty low-tech. Humans call other humans to correct errors on the bill. Better uses a mix of human advocates and automation to spot errors and reduce costs. And, though it’s free to patients right now (or at least until it hits $1,000,000 in claims), Norman says she’ll eventually charge around 10 percent of the total bill after any reductions.
In the meantime, Better has plans to grow and has raised $1.1 million to help it do so from Initialized Capital (where former TechCruncher Kim-Mai Cutler has landed, btw) with participation from Ben Blumenfeld and Enrique Allen’s Designer Fund and various other angel investors.
Better co-founders Rachael Norman and John Stockdale.
I can say firsthand it works pretty well. I had my husband test it out for a medical bill he received after getting some shots before heading to Brazil last summer. The clinic he went to failed to tell him it was out of network and when we got the final bill months later it was nearly $1,000. This was right after we had gotten married, so it wasn’t something we were prepared to pay at the time.
A friend told me about Better and we decided to give it a whirl. It took about a month, but Better reduced my husband’s payment to a couple hundred dollars.
I can’t say that is going to be everyone’s experience, but that was ours — and I should point out the Better team did not know at the time I had my husband test out the service or that I was interested in possibly writing something.
But what’s not clear is how the company plans to scale. The team is still pretty small, just Norman, her co-founder and former Facebook engineer John Stockdale and some other engineers at the moment, and it’s admittedly mostly her and Stockdale making calls to insurance companies on the patient’s behalf right now, which sounds exhausting.
Norman hopes to change that routine with the fresh cash and plans to hire more engineers to work on automating a lot of the work. She also says building the Android app is high on the priority list, so look for that soon.
Microsoft announced today that it was acquiring Bellevue-based Intentional Software for an undisclosed amount of money. With the purchase, Charles Simonyi, Intentional founder, Chairman, and CTO, who helped develop some of Microsoft’s famous Office tools like Excel and Word returns to Microsoft.
Simonyi left Microsoft in 2002 to launch Intentional. While it’s not crystal clear what Intentional does, according to a Microsoft blog post announcing the deal, it began looking at ways to simplify programming and later did some work “to develop productivity scenarios for the future workforce.” If that seems vague to you, you’re not alone, but apparently the company brings some expertise to Microsoft on working in groups, an area Microsoft has been pursuing lately with the launch of Microsoft Teams (and let’s not forget it purchased Yammer in 2012 for $1.2 billion, as well).
In a blog post announcing the deal, Rajesh Jha, executive vice president for the Office Product Group said he was excited about the acquisition, just as you would expect. “We’re excited about the company’s work on productivity applications, especially given our focus of putting people at the center of experiences and our continued effort to reimagine collaboration,” Jha wrote.
Simonyi gets a bit more specific in his blog post on the acquisition. He sees a world where collaboration can be combined with hardware technology like the Surface and machine learning and exciting things could begin to happen.
“Imagine then, the power of an ontology consisting of thousands of terms covering most of the common activities that comprise our personal and professional lives ranging from life transitions, education, entertainment, buying and selling. Curating and exploiting such an ontology will be as important as the hardware and software surfaces that activate it,” Simonyi wrote.

Related Articles
Microsoft says exploits leaked by Shadow Brokers were addressed by prior patches
Microsoft publishes first National Security Letter in transparency report
Microsoft launches new tools to help enterprises move to its Azure cloud
Teams, Microsoft's Slack rival, opens to all Office 365 users

Simonyi didn’t just help develop Excel and Word, he’s also been to the International Space Station a couple of times, spending 25 days in space in two trips in 2007 and 2009. He also flies helicopters and multi-engine planes.
While none of that will probably come in handy when he returns to Microsoft, it sees his company and his team as a valuable addition, at least from a research and development perspective.
The parties involved were certainly effusive about the deal with Intentional CEO Eric Anderson writing, “In this next chapter, I see the potential for an even greater impact. The world is bigger, more connected, and technology is far more sophisticated and far more accessible.”
The deal will be subject to regulatory approval, and while Microsoft has changed significantly since Simonyi last worked there, it certainly seems like this would be a smooth transition as his team becomes part of Microsoft.

Featured Image: StockStudio/Shutterstock
Today at 10am Pacific, Facebook is set to reveal a Camera Effects Platform, offline Instagram features, and group chat bots at its F8 conference. You can watch Mark Zuckerberg’s keynote right here in this post and see an updated list of all the day’s announcements.





		
It’s the 10-year anniversary of Facebook’s Platform. While it’s had some stumbles along the way, the experience of working with developers could come in handy as it competes against younger companies like Snap that lack ties with developers.
According to the F8 schedule, a big focus of the day will be the Camera Effects Platform, which sounds like it will allow developers to contribute animated and augmented reality selfie masks and other experiences to Facebook’s newly launched camera.
An enhanced Places location database called Places Graph is on the agenda, as are announcements about Instagram testing new offline feature for users in the developing world with spotty connectivity.
And TechCrunch’s sources confirm that Facebook will be launching Messenger bots for group chats. These will let you and multiple friends stay up to date via news bots that share a ticker of a sport’s match play-by-play, or get updates on a group food order such as progress in the kitchen and when the delivery should arrive.
Check back throughout the day for links to all our coverage:
Facebook launches augmented reality Camera Effects developer platform
We’re gearing up for a great Disrupt NY and this year we’re pulling out all the stops. Like the pavilions we had in London and San Francisco last year, we are highlighting some of the best startups from 12 distinct categories to exhibit in New York’s Startup Alley plus they will demo their products on our Showcase Stage.

Artificial Intelligence & Machine Learning


Emoshape Inc – First Emotion Chip for AI and Robots – EPU (Emotion Processing Unit)

Alluvium – Mesh Intelligence platform delivers real-time operational insights to operations

Syndio – People analytics working at the intersection of HR, big data, machine learning, and relational analytics


E-Commerce & Retail


Lensabl – Easy-to-use online tool to get new prescription and custom lenses

TaxDrop – Provides more accurate filing by only using licensed Certified Public Accountants

TryPaas – People as a service


Fashion & Beauty


KG projects – Digital immersive fashion

Topology Eyewear – 3-D Printed glasses

COSIGN – Turns photos into storefronts


FinTech & Payments (includes Investment Platforms)


Medean – Monitor your spending against peers your age

Emerge.me – Makes insurance for emergencies accessible, simple, and easy to buy

Debitize – Combines the perks of credit cards with the discipline of a debit card


Food & Beverage (includes Delivery Services and Agricultural Innovation)


xtraCHEF – Invoice processing and a cost management solution for vendor payment in kitchens

WythMe, LLC – Companies give clients deals for going to specific restaurants

Tixel Labs, Inc. – Inventory management for restaurants


Hardware & IOT (includes Consumer Electronics)


TinyPCB – Allows circuit boards to take the shape of any device

Smart & Blue – Customer-facing smart solutions for water conservation & management.

MiniBrew – Remove the barriers to home brewing excellence


Health & BioTech (includes Women’s Health, Fitness, and Sports)


Quantac, Inc. – Wearable biosensor platform that can track alcohol consumption through the skin

Open Health Network – Enables rapid development of mobile health apps


Media, Gaming & Entertainment (includes Audio and Video Platforms)


Genvid Technologies, Inc. – The first broadcast suite for games, enabling developers to create their own channels

Cornea Entertainment – Interactive cinematic comic book episode

Overtime – Cross-platform tech startup that’s redefining high school and amateur sports through video


MarCom, SaaS & Advertising (includes communications, marketing, B2B)


Mazen – Designed to save SEO specialists time

Popwallet – Marketing automation platform that enables brand and retail marketers to create

onTarget – Visual collaboration solution for construction industry


Mobility & Transportation


MetroTech Net, Inc. – Smart City and Autonomous car focused traffic reduction platform

FlyOtto – Easier to charter flights

Journey – The impact travel collective


Security & IT


CyberCentric – Enterprise-focused cyber security platform

Security Platform Inc. – Device Security for IOT and connected devices

Datapath.io – Monitors the global Internet and finds the fastest internet routes available


Virtual Reality & Augmented Reality


Holojam – Developing technology that works with VR / AR headsets to enable groups of people who are in the same location to share a mixed reality

LightUp – Virtual tutor powered by augmented reality (AR) and artificial intelligence (AI) to make a personalized education available to all

SpaceoutVR, Inc. – Integrates entertainment, gaming and communications into a personified VR App

If you’ve got a startup and want to exhibit at Disrupt NY, you can still get your Startup Alley exhibitor package here. It comes with 2 general admission tickets and one day to exhibit on the show floor.
Disrupt NY 2017 takes place May 15-17 at New York’s Pier 36. Hope to see you there.
For potential sponsors out there, yes, the feature pavilions are available for sponsorship. For more information, just fill out this form.
Master & Dynamic has been making high-end headphones for a while; some of them are okay, others are great. But this is the first time they’ve entered speaker territory. The concrete behemoth in question is the MA770, with a price to match: $1,800.
Pre-orders start today, with shipping in mid-May. Besides the material, it’s the first time I’m seeing this many connection options: a 3.5mm audio jack, optical, Bluetooth with aptX and WiFi with Chromecast support.
I had a chance to visit the M&D headquarters in Midtown Manhattan to spoke with CEO Jonathan Levine. “We always planned to make a speaker,” he said. The physical design that made use of concrete was a wonder project, but was actualized by none other than Sir David Adjaye, whose most recent work was the National Museum of African-American History in Culture, located in Washington D.C.



I had a short listening session with the MA770, where Levin encouraged me to put it on full blast despite being in an office full of working employees. I listened to “HUMBLE” by Kendrick Lamar on Spotify Premium — it was banging, to say the least. The deep, warm-bodied sounds and clear vocals I heard were produced by a 1.5″ titanium dome  tweeter and dual 4″ woven Kevlar long throw woofers.
The whole thing weighs 35 pounds/16kg and is amplified by 100W class D 3 discrete channels. While those are all specs only audiophiles care about, it translates to controlling the sound on an entire floor.
When I asked Levine if he sees the MA770 as being a studio speaker with as much permeation in the market among artists and studios, like the headphones that came before it, he said that was up in the air. At first he said, M&D plans to market the MA770 to audiophiles, museums and “luxury spaces”, but not ruling out studios entirely.
When I asked Levine what other streaming services the MA770 supported, he mentioned Tidal, Pandora, Soundcloud and Deezer — but not Apple Music, at least not yet.
Last week Samsung announced that the Galaxy S8 would ship without Bixby Voice control. It seems unlikely that little bombshell will dissuade anyone from buying the new flagship. It is, after all, a great piece of hardware, as detailed in our recent review.
Still, it’s a notable disappointment for one of the phone’s key selling points and a stumble for a feature that’s designed to point the way forward for the company. At present, the Samsung’s smart assistant has the makings of a compelling feature, but the execution is scattershot.
Bixby can and perhaps will be the great unifying force promised by the company. In its current state, however, it feels like a suite of features added onto Samsung’s already sizable selection of Android add-ons. The company has never wanted for apps. In fact, they’ve long been one of the driving factors it’s used to distinguish itself from the countless other Android manufacturers flooding the market.
That was likely a large part of the reason the company opted to launch its own assistant, after failing to make too much headway with S-Voice. Why settle for Google Assistant when you can make your own in house? Doing so could once and for all unite the Galaxy’s myriad applications under a single, accessible banner and serve as the foundation for broader controls.

After all, recent plays by Amazon, Apple and Google have all demonstrated that smart assistants are the gateway to a lot more than just the weather and silly Wikipedia questions. Among other things, they’re a common language that can serve as an entry point for unifying the smart home – a space in which Samsung is clearly heavily invested with numerous connected appliances.
It’s clear that Samsung is hanging a lot on the software. It even went so far as devoting a full button to Bixby, even as it made a big show of ditching the big home key up front. But an essential part of adoption requires a strong user experience right out of the gate, and in its present form, Bixby doesn’t deliver on the blustery promises the company made ahead of launch, when it promised it would be “revolutionizing phone interfaces.”
Samsung’s acknowledgement of its failure to ship Bixby at press time was less an admission of failure than it was an opportunity for the company to talk up the pieces that are shipping with the phone.
“With its intelligent interface and contextual awareness, Bixby will make your phone more helpful by assisting in completing tasks, telling you what you’re looking at, learning your routine and remembering what you need to do,” it said in a statement sent to TechCrunch following the news. “Key features of Bixby, including Vision, Home and Reminder, will be available with the global launch of the Samsung Galaxy S8 on April 21. Bixby Voice will be available in the U.S. on the Galaxy S8 later this spring.”

In its current state, Bixby consists of Home, the bit that pops up when you hit the side button; Vision, an image and text scanning service; and Reminder, which, well, lets you create reminders.
This early iteration of Home doesn’t do all that much to set itself apart from myriad other content aggregating mobile services. Vision, meanwhile, is the most promising piece of the offering, adding a shopping feature along the lines of Amazon Flow, which lets users buy things by scanning a label or barcode. That’s coupled with the ability to scan and translate text – definitely a helpful feature for frequent travels.
But as with the S8 itself, which the company promised would be “the beginning of a new way to experience the world” in its keynote, Samsung is setting the bar impossibly high. Sure, there are some compelling features on the horizon, like Voice, which is said to offer a more contextual user experience than Siri and the like. More features derived from the acquisition of Viv like added third-party support could help push it over the top, as well.
At present, Bixby feels like a rushed piece of an otherwise well-formed and long thought out phone. The company has the opportunity to deliver a real groundbreaking software experience in Bixby, one that could truly set its software apart from the rest of its Android brethren and help build a connected future moving forward. As it stands, however, the smart assistant has gotten off on the wrong foot with undelivered potential.
Murj, a new company backed by $4.5 million in new venture financing, is looking to make data collection from implantable heart monitoring and management devices easier and more manageable.
The company was founded by a former Medtronic sales rep who’d previously worked as a product manager on Apple’s iPads. After a few years in sales, Murj founder Todd Butka began thinking about ways to make the data collected by cardiac technologies more easily available to physicians and diagnosticians.
Now the company is coming to market with backing from True Ventures and Social Capital.
Unlike existing technologies that deliver data in static .pdf documents, Murj collects the data and stores it in its own off-premise data warehouses. Using dashboards and other visualization tools doctors can get a better read on what’s going on with their patients’ heart health, Butka claims.
“The information comes from the devices to the implantable devices’ servers… We ping the servers,” Butka explained.
The Murj launch wraps up three years of work developing the technology, which was founded in 2014 and raised its first money in 2015.
The company, based in Santa Cruz, brought on Chris Irving as its lead designer and Patrick Beaulieu, an 18 year veteran of the medical device business, as its chief technical officer.
I think of the company as sort of an Apple Healthkit for implantable devices. If it can expand its scope beyond pacemakers and heart monitors to a broader range of implantables, it could be a pretty big business.
As the population ages, and technologies improve, demand for more persistent diagnostic tools will grow.
In a sense this is part of a number of companies that are trying to provide better tools to manage the data coming off of the sensors that we’ve got all around us.
Alright future Disrupt attendees. We gave you an extra week to save $1,000 on Disrupt NY 2017 tickets, but this week we aren’t feeling so generous. You now have just three days left to get an early-bird ticket for $1,995 before prices jump to $2,995 after Friday.
Seriously, no more extensions. This is it.
Get your tickets now.
Disrupt NY 2017 is going to be one of our best Disrupts yet. We’ve got some amazing speakers lined up for a series of lectures and interviews — folks like RRE Ventures Co-Founder & Managing Partner Stuart Ellman, Caribou Biosciences co-founder, President and CEO Dr. Rachel E. Haurwitz, and New York Yankees legend Derek Jeter, to name a few.
In addition to these incredible interviews, Disrupt attendees get to check out hundreds of new, early-stage startups that will be on display in Startup Alley and Hardware Alley, pitching their products and services to the thousands of people wandering the show floor.
Then there’s the Startup Battlefield competition, in which companies compete in front of our panel of judges and the broad tech industry with the hopes of winning the coveted Disrupt Cup, a $50,000 grand prize and, perhaps most importantly, the attention of the startup community at large.
And as an added benefit, attendees can keep the fun and networking going long after the show floor closes with the various after-parties that take place throughout the week of Disrupt.
All those great things are available only to those of you who have a ticket, and the best, most wallet-friendly way to get a ticket is to get your early bird ticket before prices jump by $1,000 this weekend. Early-bird tickets are available now through the end of day on Friday, April 14, so get on over to our ticketing page today to get yours.
Disrupt NY 2017 takes place May 15-17 at Manhattan’s Pier 36, and we can’t wait to see you all there.
Our sponsors help make Disrupt happen. If you are interested in learning more about sponsorship opportunities, please contact our sponsorship team at sponsors@techcrunch.com.
Uber finalized a new tool in its business arsenal today called Uber Central that enables business users to order multiple Ubers on behalf of customers or clients from a single app. It was originally announced in July.
The tool solves a problem businesses have had up to now, where they might need to order multiple cars for guests or customers, but were limited to one car per app at a time. This limitation actually makes sense for individual consumers, but is a problem for a business that wants to call several Ubers.
Business customers had been clamoring for a way to do this, and were actually using work-arounds like buying several phones and setting up multiple Uber accounts, specifically so they could order several cars at a time, Travis Bogard, Global GM at Uber for Business told TechCrunch.
The new product works in a similar way to the consumer version, except instead of ordering a single car, you can order multiple cars from the Uber Central interface. As with the consumer version, you enter the pickup location and the destination and the program figures the approximate cost of the ride. Since it’s tied to Uber for Business, each ride gets charged to the single business account automatically, and customers can take advantage of all the business back-end reporting and management capabilities in the business tool.
Photo: Uber

Related Articles
New York's Taxi commission to propose in-app tipping requirement for Uber
Uber reportedly tracked Lyft drivers using a secret software program named 'Hell'
Uber denies Waymo theft claims on grounds it never used custom LiDAR
Uber female engineers to Travis: 'there's a systemic problem with sexism here'

The passenger doesn’t need an Uber account or even a smartphone. After the car is ordered, they receive an SMS message with the make and model of the car, the license plate and the name of the driver when the car is on its way, and another when it arrives.
Customers can maintain templates, which they call “Drafts”, of commonly used routes like to an airport or train station from a hotel or to a satellite office from the main office (or whatever it happens to be).
When Central was first announced it was considered a stand-alone product, but through the Beta testing period, Uber began to see that it made more sense to deliver it as part of the Uber for Business platform, Bogard said. In fact, the company is thinking of layering on additional products on the business platform over time.
Customers, who activate Uber Central will pay a separate fee in addition to Uber for Business.

Featured Image: Jaap Arriens/NurPhoto/Getty Images
It’s been just under a year since Backblaze‘s B2 cloud storage service came out of beta. The platform’s main selling point at the time was definitely its pricing, which undercut virtually all of its larger competitors (think AWS, Google and Microsoft). Today, it’s launching a new round of price cuts, this time focused on download cost. Instead of $0.05 per gigabyte, Backblaze will now charge only $0.02.
Typically, when we talk about the price of cloud storage, we talk about how much it costs to store a gigabyte of data on those various platforms. Often, though, the real cost for many companies is actually getting this data out of those services — either to move their backups or to serve their customers.
On Google’s cloud platform, this kind of network egress costs $0.12 per gigabyte for the first one terabyte of downloads (with prices dropping after that). As far as network egress goes, Google tends to be pretty pricey. Microsoft and Amazon tend to charge less, but even their pricing starts at $0.09 per gigabyte.
“For storage, we spent a decade building our custom Storage Pods and Vault cloud storage file system, and growing a culture that focuses on squeezing costs out at every layer,”Backblaze CEO Gleb Budman told me when I asked him about how his company was able to afford this price drop. “For bandwidth, though, it turned out that it’s just not as expensive as other companies are pricing it at. As soon as we realized that, we lowered the pricing.”
Budman also told me that over 50,000 people in 20,000 organizations now actively use B2.
Advertisement		







The Samsung Galaxy S8 is a strange beast. All at once it seems like both the culmination of several generations’ worth of solid smartphone evolution, while feeling like a still-incomplete peek at the company’s grand plans moving forward. It’s a beautifully crafted piece of hardware with some cool software tricks that is less of the revolution that Samsung promised than it is an insight into a unified Galaxy theory that will likely define generations of the company’s devices to come.
When Samsung took the stage last month, it offered, “Not just the launch of a great device, but the beginning of a new way to experience the world.” A months-long apology tour following what had been an utterly dismal year for its public image gave way to the promise of the next key moment in mobile communication history.
The reality of the S8 is a solid device that furthers the company’s valiant quest to vanquish the bezel. Samsung’s building upon several generations of great phones with a mostly iterative but worthy follow up. The advent of the company’s brand new smart assistant Bixby, meanwhile, points the way forward for Samsung’s upcoming ecosystem play.
But the company still needs to thread the needle on that front. The experience isn’t fully fleshed, lending an air of disappointment to the company’s big new comeback device.
Infinity and beyond

One thing Samsung has unquestionably perfected: making big phones seem small. It was one of the remarkable feats the company managed on the Note 7, and it’s on full display with the S8 and S8+. Matter of fact, the first time I got hands-on time with the S8+ at a press event, I could’ve sworn I was holding the smaller version.
I’ve been carrying the phone around for a few days now, and it fits in my pocket every bit as comfortably as the 5.5-inch iPhone 7+. And you’re able to operate that phone with a single hand, so this device will be no problem.
The larger handset doesn’t feel its full 6.2 inches, owing to a taller form factor and what the company has enticingly deemed its “Infinity Display.” The curved screen continues the company’s multi-generational war on bezels, exemplified by last year’s S7 Edge and Note 7. They’re not gone entirely, but they’re tucked away far enough to make previous generations look bulky by comparison.

The promise of an all-screen phone is still likely a couple of generations off (due in part to the persistent popularity of the selfie-camera), but Samsung has done yeoman’s work attempting to eradicate edges from the Earth. This is helped along immensely by the elimination of the front home button — the most striking design change on a phone that otherwise retains much of the design language of its predecessor.
The familiar oval button has been replaced by a virtual counterpart that sits under the screen in roughly the same spot. It’s been coupled with a haptic engine that offers the same rough approximation of a physical click as the latest iPhone. For unlocking purposes, a fingerprint reader has been moved to the back, just to the right of the camera. It’s an odd design choice.

It’s hard to access with a single hand — even when compared to the mid-phone placement on the Pixel, and it’s basically asking you to run your greasy fingerprints all over the camera as you fumble to find it (the entire back of the black version is one giant fingerprint magnet). Thankfully, there’s no want for different ways to unlock the phone with various body parts, though facial unlock, while cool, is pretty hit or miss in low light.
The birth of Bixby
.text .crunchreport h3 {color:#fff}

		Latest Crunch Report 







Element Raises $102 Million | Crunch Report





Watch More Episodes



It’s time to streamline the Galaxy software experience. And Bixby may well be the smart assistant to do it. For now, however, the AI is a bit of a hot mess. There are brilliant flashes here and there, but Samsung’s semi-homebrewed assistant feels more like a promise of what’s to come than a truly useful software feature. This is due in no small part to the fact that not all of the promised Bixby features will be available to Galaxy S8 buyers at launch.
Samsung confirmed with us via email that the handset is launching without Bixby Voice. That’s set to come at some point later this spring. For now, it feels like a gaping hole in the company’s plan to take on Siri, Alexa and Google Assistant head-on. Without it, the experience feels undercooked, and I can’t avoid the sneaking suspicion that the company rushed it into existence a mere five or so months after purchasing Viv in order to attempt to have one more key feature for its first post-Note 7 flagship.
The company even went so far as giving ol’ Bixby its own devoted button on the side of the phone, even as it killed the only physical button on the front of the device. Let’s all reconvene in six months or a year to see if the company’s delivered on some grand promises like uniting its smart home play. Meantime, there are some useful features present, most notably Bixby Vision.
Looking forward with Bixby Vision

Samsung always introduces a smattering of interesting software features designed to distinguish itself from the pack of Android also-rans. Bixby Vision is without question one of the most compelling in recent memory, taking advantage of the on-board camera for a number of different activities like shopping and text translation.
The former should be familiar to anyone who has seen or used Amazon Flow, the fascinating app launched in 2014 that undoubtedly gave millions of brick and mortar store owners minor heart attacks. It uses image recognition to scan bar codes and the front of images. Once it’s recognized them, both apps pull up a list of Amazon shopping results.


It’s admittedly not much more useful than downloading Amazon’s app, but will likely help fuel the massive portal of contextual information that Samsung’s compiling to help build a more useful Bixby experience. Vision also does a great job recognizing text on products. You can translate these into a number of different languages by highlighting them. Certainly a potentially useful feature, moving forward.
Where the heart is

Home is Bixby’s most forward-facing feature. It’s the thing that pops up when you give the devoted button a short press (down the road a longer one will bring up Voice). At first glance, it looks like any number of content hubs that Android hardware makers have plopped on top of the operating system. After using the phone for a week, mine displays recently played Spotify songs, my daily step count, reminders and the weather, among others.
As with Bixby’s underlying technology, Home is designed pull in more and more contextual information over time, potentially becoming more helpful along the way. For the moment, however, it’s hard to see it as much of anything beyond a standard content hub. Not a bad thing, mind, but not nearly revolutionary.
Add voice, the promised third-party support and a clear connected home strategy, and Bixby starts to look like a truly compelling smart assistant. It could well end up being the connective tissue that finally unites generations of features laid a top of Android — and what helps truly distinguish its software offering from the competition. For now, however, it feels rushed out in order to make the S8 deadline.
Camera action


Crunchbase






				Samsung Electronics			


 
Founded
1969


Overview
Samsung Electronics is a South Korean multinational electronics company engaged in consumer electronics, information technology and mobile communications, and device solutions businesses worldwide.


The company develops, manufactures, and sells various consumer products, including mobile phones, tablets, televisions, Blu-ray players, DVD players, home theater systems, digital cameras, and camcorders; …


Location

Suwon, 17



Categories

Semiconductor, 																													Medical Device, 																													Hardware, 																													Electronics 


Website

http://www.samsung.com/us 


Full profile for Samsung Electronics 









As far as specs go, Samsung hasn’t done much to update the rear-facing camera. And that’s perfectly fine. It’s been a major focus over the past few generations, and the result is one of the best smartphone camera experiences money can buy. There have been a few software tweaks, like enhanced image processing, which makes the camera’s already solid low-light image capture even better.
Interestingly, most of the big camera updates are aimed at making the S8 more of a social machine, following in the footsteps of upgrades from Chinese manufacturers like Huawei.
The front-facing camera has been bumped up to eight megapixels and now sports faster auto-focus and better facial recognition. So, you know, lots more better selfies. Samsung’s also loaded the camera app with a few dozen filters and animated stickers, bringing a taste of Snapchat to the device itself. The software has also been tweaked for easier one-handed picture-taking.
Really, few of the upgrades here are focused on “serious” picture taking. Samsung’s software offerings are often aimed at productivity and security. Given how the company seeded review units of the S8 to YouTube reviewers early on, it’s clear that Samsung is looking to broaden its appeal with a younger demographic.



A strong foundation

Taken alone, none of the new additions are nearly as groundbreaking as Samsung would like you to think. But what the S8 and S8+ do have going for them is several generations of advancements, and, taken together, it’s one of the most fully featured Android phones out there. Like their predecessor, the phones are rated IP68, so you can get caught in a downpour or even dunk them in a bucket of water with no problem.
They once again support expandable memory and wireless fast charging.
The battery on the S8 is the same size as its predecessor (and a bit bigger, naturally on the Plus). I was able to get about a day and a half of normal use. Samsung, understandably, wasn’t looking to push the envelope
The processor has seen a big bump, which is as much about future-proofing the device as anything. You likely won’t see a big difference in day-to-day usage, but as the company pushes further and further into more complex tasks like VR, it will begin to make that much more of a difference.
Reach higher

The S8 was bound to be a tightrope walk for Samsung. At recent events, the company has tested out slogans like “reach higher,” while striking an apologetic tone for past issues. The S8 feels a bit like the real-world manifestation of that mental chess, with solid hardware and a software experience that points the way toward something better — the unified ecosystem the company has always striven for, but never fully executed.
At $725 for the S8 and $825 for the S8+, the device is, as ever, a premium product with a premium price tag. Indeed, with the Infinity display, next-gen processor and already solid camera experience, there’s plenty to like, keeping Samsung toward the front of the Android handset race.
Offerings like Bixby could well be the key to taking the phone to the next level, finally tying all of Samsung’s various software offerings into a unified experience. The seeds are all there. Now all Samsung has to do is let them grow.



Flying drones to inspect a farm, construction site, or any other venue from overhead can generate a huge amount of data. It takes time, though, for drone users to upload and turn this high-resolution data into maps, graphs or business intelligence they can act upon.
Today, a data management platform for drones called DroneDeploy, is launching a tool called Fieldscanner that makes it possible to draw a low-resolution satellite map in real time with a drone, in the field, even where there’s no internet connectivity. Being able to see the map draw out as you’re flying means you can change course, or take multiple passes over a problem area before you land.
According to DroneDeploy co-founder Jono Millin, here’s how it works:
“You take your drone out, plug your phone into a remote control using the DroneDeploy app. In our flight-planning interface, there’s a Fieldscanner toggle, which you can turn on from the start. Then you press “go,” and begin flying as you normally would. You can view your Fieldscan offline. You don’t have to connect and upload your data to the cloud. You can start using it from the field.”
Fieldscanner doesn’t interrupt normal data gathering by drones. Users can still upload, store and analyze all the high-res data that they normally would while engaging the new feature.

Millin, who co-founded DroneDeploy with Mike Winn and Nicholas Pilkington in 2013, explained that the ability to generate maps right away should help users in areas lacking reliable cellular and internet services. But it also makes drones more helpful in scenarios that require fast decision-making.
For example, crews sent to evaluate a flooded dam could use drones with Fieldscanner to figure out where to send repair resources first, while they’re still on-site. Or law enforcement could conduct spanning passes over an area to find a missing child last seen in a red coat, when time is of the essence.
Newer drones and mobile devices, which have strong communication links, precise GPS, and better compute capacity than previous generations, made it possible for DroneDeploy to begin offering real-time maps in the field, Millin said, especially DJI’s Mavic and Phantom 4 Pro.

“Our mission has always been to make drones accessible and a great tool for productivity. Taking processing we used to do exclusively in the cloud and doing this at a slightly lower resolution in the field, reduces time requirements so you can have data instantly accessible.”
Spending is expected to surpass $20 billion in the commercial drone market by 2021 according to forecasts from Goldman Sachs. As competition encroaches on DroneDeploy’s early lead in this market– competitors now include Airware, 3DR, Dronifi, PrecisionHawk and others– Fieldscanner proves a differentiator.

Featured Image: DroneDeploy
Flipboard is following the launch of its “smart magazines” by boosting the role of videos.
It’s not that videos were totally absent from the news app before this, but they usually showed up as an accompaniment to articles — not exactly prominent placement when compared to the beautiful treatment that Flipboard would often give photos.
Now, CEO Mike McCue said videos are going to be a native part of the app, which means you’ll see standalone videos starting to show up in the smart magazines (which offer a personalized collection of stories around topics like cooking or photography) and elsewhere. Publishers can also connect related videos together into storyboards, allowing viewers to swipe from one video to another.
The new video formats will start appearing in Flipboard’s technology, news and lifestyle/entertainment categories. Initial partners for the video program include ABC News, CNBC, Hearst Digital Media and The Enthusiast Network.
McCue said that with these new formats, Flipboard can help publishers highlight all those videos they’ve been producing, while also turning the app into the definitive source of content around a reader’s passions — whether that content is an article, a podcast or a video.
He added that it’s not a coincidence that Flipboard is rolling this out so soon after launching smart magazines.
“First, we needed to pull together audiences around these passions,” McCue said. “Job two, the next phase that we’re now beginning, is to fill those feeds with awesome stuff.”


Related Articles
Flipboard revamps its approach personalized news with new “Smart Magazines”
Flipboard looks to boost native ad sales with swipe-friendly Storyboards
Flipboard confirms it will get cut off from Instagram after the feed API ends this month
 Plus, more video can help Flipboard make money, with these video units also supporting advertising. McCue pointed out that this is one of the first times Flipboard has included standard ad formats (specifically, VAST ads) — he said that most ad units “aren’t very good for the user experience,” but “video ads, when handled properly, can be a beautifully presented, welcome part of the experience.”
Speaking of user experience, Flipboard already turned on autoplay for video, resulting 38 percent increase in video consumption. However, any user who doesn’t want autoplay videos can turn them off entirely, or just when they’re not on WiFi.
Tumblr today is launching a new app, called Cabana, which allows a group of friends to video chat and watch videos together, in real time. The app is being introduced under the Tumblr brand, and will cater to the type of users who frequent Tumblr’s blogging service – teens and young adults – but it’s not currently designed to interoperate with Tumblr’s product or take advantage of the existing relationships between fellow Tumblr users.
Instead, Cabana came about more through happenstance than strategic direction.
Tumblr founder and CEO David Karp ran into Jason Lee, Director of Product Management at Polyvore Labs, at a Yahoo leadership offsite earlier this year, where Lee was demonstrating the product.
Polyvore Labs is an internal incubator inside Yahoo – the company that acquired both Tumblr and the fashion site Polyvore in years past. (Yahoo is also in the process of being acquired by Verizon, which owns TechCrunch’s parent company, AOL.) The Labs group includes engineers, designers and product managers from the Polyvore team.
It has developed other products in the social and lifestyle space, but none have ever made it to a public launch, until Cabana.

“It just immediately clicked for me as this experience that every internet-connect human has had at this point,” explains Karp, of having watched the Cabana demo. “You find something incredible on the internet – that latest viral video that’s hilarious or profound, or that obscure thing that means a ton to you – and then you’re dragging your friends over to your computer to watch it,” he says.
That same sort of thing also happens on Tumblr to some extent – people find interesting content and share it with others.
However, the difference between the two products is that Tumblr is essentially a network of strangers who share your interests – perhaps in anime, or art, or some TV show fandom – but Cabana is meant to be used with a group of real-life friends.

If this sort of co-watching experience sounds familiar, it’s because there’s quite a bit of action in this space already.
The recently funded iMessage-based video chat app Fam has plans to move into the area of group video viewing, but there are existing apps from others who are doing this as well. We recently covered one of those efforts called Let’s Watch It!, an app for watching YouTube or Twitch videos with friends.
But truthfully, there are a slew of services for group video viewing, including Gaze, MyCircleTV, ShareTube, Togethr TV, Rabbit, Rave, and many, many more. Even YouTube is experimenting in this space with an app called Uptime.
The co-viewing experience is also more broadly part of the appeal of the newer live-streaming video services, like those from Twitter’s Periscope and Facebook Live.
So the question is not really whether co-watching is going to be a thing – it’s a thing –  but, rather it’s who will win this thing if this is a thing that is to be won.

How Cabana Works
In Cabana, up to six friends can hang out in a “room” in the app, where they share videos from YouTube that they watch together, in real-time and in sync. You can participate in only one room at a time, but you can leave and rejoin rooms freely.
You can add friends by username or upload your address book from your phone to find your friends, then either create a  room to hang out in, or join an existing one. These rooms can be public or private – the latter by “locking” the room – and you can invite friends to come in by tapping “Hey!”
Once you’re in a room, you’ll find the tools to lock the room, flip your camera around, mute your mic, add friends, as well as search for videos and share them with the group. Friends can even swap out the currently playing video for another at any time. You can also exit the room to browse your phone while the conversation continues, which puts you on “Pause.”


The app was built in just two months’ time, says Lee, and was designed to offer a spontaneous feeling and experience.
“In Cabana, we try to blend the experience of hanging out and watching,” says Lee. “We keep your face front-and-center along with the video. Instead of focusing on text-based on emoji-based conversations, we give you friends’ full face and range of emotions…we think that’s pretty unique and differentiating feature that allows you to really recreate the experience of being together while you’re apart.”
“The thing I thought was so cool when Jason demoed this is that just it seems so human…they captured this type of hanging out that so many of us do,” adds Karp.
A new home for brands ads 
YouTube’s videos are available through an API integration in Cabana, not an official partnership, to be clear.
But assuming this proves popular, Cabana could expand to include videos from other social sources in the future.
Karp sees a path for this, having taken a similar position with regard to live video on Tumblr. The company had originally considered building out its own video platform and publishing tools, but later decided it made more sense to work with partners, like YouTube, YouNow, and others when it came time to move into the live video space itself. Cabana could eventually do the same.
There’s also overlap with Tumblr when it comes to brand advertisements, Karp believes. The brands currently advertising on Tumblr may want to reach a similar, young demographic – those aged 13 through 18 – through the Cabana app. (Over half of Tumblr today is teens and millennials, ages 13-34).
But there is not advertising in Cabana at launch, nor a definitive plan as to how it would be integrated in the future.
While Cabana is the first standalone social app to emerge from Tumblr, it’s not the first time Tumblr has tried to branch out into other mobile apps. Back in 2012, it launched Photoset, a separate app for posting photos to the social web, including Tumblr. (This app was later shut down.)
But though it’s a separate product, it’s not a pivot for Tumblr itself. The site today is still active, with over 340 million blogs on its platform. The company declined to share its active user base, but one third-party report from early 2016 pegged Tumblr as having 23.2 million users here in the U.S. Tumblr is available worldwide so this is not the full picture, though the report did claim that it would add fewer users over the next few years than rivals like Facebook, Instagram, and Pinterest.
The issue for Tumblr is that the way users are connecting today on mobile is changing – we’re more likely to message and chat, than share blog posts. But Tumblr claims it has made the mobile transition, saying over 80% of its users access its service on mobile. Still, Cabana could help Tumblr enter the new era of video chatting, if it succeeds.
Cabana is initially available on iOS with an Android launch planned for May.
As reported earlier this month, Google today has unveiled its new vision for Google Earth, the software that combines satellite imagery, topographic maps and 3D cities, to help you better visualize the planet. The company is now rolling out an update for Google Earth for web and Android, two years in the making, that will introduce features like guided tours, Knowledge cards, as well as Google’s classic “I’m feeling lucky” button for more spontaneous discoveries, and more.
Voyager is Google’s Earth’s showcase of guided tours, which have been created with the help of “some of the world’s leading storytellers, scientists and nonprofits,” Google says in its announcement of the launch.
For example, there’s a tour called Natural Treasures from BBC Earth which takes you to half a dozen habitats around the world, including mountains and jungles, where you can learn about the wildlife. Jane Goodall hosts a tour in the Gombe National Park in Tanzania, where she talks about her team’s chimpanzee research and conservation efforts. Even Sesame Street is participating with its Girl Muppets Around the World tour. NASA is working with Google Earth, too.
The tours themselves encompass other features, like 360-degree videos and Google Maps’ Street View imagery.

Meanwhile, Google Earth’s “I’m Feeling Lucky” button isn’t totally random. Instead Google has curated a database of 20,000 different places around the world that are worth exploring. These could be famous attractions in far-away cities or scenic places of natural beauty, among other things. Once there, you can open up a new “Knowledge Card” that will offer more information and history about the place in question.
While this feature is interesting in and of itself, it could also appeal to those who are looking for travel inspiration and don’t have a set place in mind they’d like to visit. That would give Google Earth a more practical position in Google’s lineup of products – potentially tying it into other travel-related products, like its personalized travel planner, Google Trips, its online trip planning feature on the web, Google Destinations, or its airfare booking tool, Google Flights.
Another new feature is a 3D button that lets you view a place from any angle. You could use this to move around the Grand Canyon to see geological layers, or check out the 500-year-old Château de Chambord in the Loire Valley in France, Google suggests.

The updated Google Earth, which rolls out this week, will now run as a web app in the Google Chrome browser, or on Android. An iOS version is in the works.
Pandora Premium, the company’s paid, on-demand service and rival to Spotify, is today available to all users. The service was technically launched in March, but required users request an invitation to join, as it ramped up to its broader, public availability.
The service itself is essentially Pandora’s own spin on on-demand music, offering a combination of radio-like listening as well as the ability to search and play any track and build playlists. It costs $9.99 per month, which is in line with other offerings on the market today, including Spotify and Apple Music.
Pandora Premium is not Pandora’s only paid tier, however. The company had previously launched Pandora Plus, a $5 per month service that includes a wider feature set – like the ability to skip more songs, access more replays and listen offline. That service launched with a smaller catalog of around 2 million tracks, compared with the 40+ million available on Premium. But today both services offer the same amount of content, the company says.
The Premium service has a few advantages over rivals, ranging from its attractive design thanks to the acquisition of the well-built Rdio back in 2015 and its teams’ talents, as well as its recommendations that draw from users’ longtime listening history on Pandora’s popular radio app. Pandora is focusing these recommendations to include new album suggestions in addition to just a set of tracks you might like.
Pandora also says it has filtered its catalog to remove the “karaoke tracks, knock-off covers and pet sounds” that bog down other services, and it uses its “Music Genome Project” technology to help users automatically build their playlists.

However, Pandora is still playing a game of catch-up in the on-demand music space, despite its radio app’s popularity. The service today has 81 million total listeners monthly, but a smaller portion of those are paying customers. (4.48 million subscribe to Pandora Plus). By comparison, Spotify recently hit 50 million paying customers, and Apple Music has grown to 20 million subscribers as of December.
Meanwhile, Pandora has been recently reported to be shopping for private equity in order to expand its business.
Pandora kicked off today’s public launch of Premium with a marketing campaign “Sounds Like You,” which includes participation from artists such as Big Sean, Gorillaz, Miranda Lambert, Questlove, 2 Chainz, Amine, Bishop Briggs, Brett Eldredge, Daya, Halsey, Keith Urban, Kelsea Ballerini, Lil’ Yachty, Maggie Rogers, Nicky Jam, Pitbull, Thomas Rhett and Ziggy Marley.
The campaign involves digital ads, billboards, influencer programs, and social media integrations, including Snapchat lenses and filters and custom Twitter emoji. The ads will encourage users to check out curated mixtapes, says Pandora.
Pandora Premium is live now on iOS, Android, Chromecast, and integrated into the car via Android Auto, Apple CarPlay, GM, Honda, Hyundai, JVC Kenwood, Pioneer, and Subaru. It will arrive on desktop and other connected devices in the months ahead.
Snapchat is adding a new way to use its app that brings its popular filters beyond faces. The new ‘World Lenses’ add augmented reality elements to any scene you can capture with your camera, placing 3D objects you can actually walk around with your smartphone’s camera, which is actually a lot closer to what we used to mean when we said “augmented reality” in its earlier days.
Snap notably doesn’t use “augmented reality” or “AR” once in its blog post announcing the news, preferring instead to talk about how users can “paint the world” with “3D experiences.” The intro video, however, will reveal something pretty familiar to anyone who bought into the early hype of the Nintendo 3DS, which came with AR cards that let you place and virtually interact with 3D graphics that looked like they were anchored to, and blended with, the real world.
Based on the demo videos Snap provided, this is a much more impressive incarnation of AR, however, that requires neither QR codes nor other kludgy markers to anchor and generate the graphics you see applied to whatever’s captured via your camera lens in real time. The gifs below should provide some sense that what’s happening here goes beyond the timid stumblings of the very first smartphone and portable console AR products.




The should be fairly easy to use – Snap says you just tap the screen while using the rear-facing camera to cycle through available World Lenses, and it adds that these will be updated on a daily basis, too.
This genuinely sounds like a fun, worthwhile addition to Snapchat that builds on the popularity of its previous Lenses launches. But we knew they were coming, and we’ve actually known for a while now: It’s highly likely that Snap’s competitors are aware, too, and it’s probably only a matter of time before they clone this feature the way they have previous tech, too. Still, there’s plenty of opportunity for additional revenue from this new addition to the Snapchat product arsenal, though at launch, there won’t be any sponsored third-party World Lenses.
Are you a student on a limited budget but still want to check out the best startup show in the Big Apple? We’ve got you covered. For a limited time, current undergraduate and graduate students can get deeply discounted student tickets to Disrupt NY 2017 for just $300 each.
To take advantage of this opportunity, all you need to do is send an email to students@techcrunch.com with a copy of both your current transcripts showing your enrollment status and a valid student ID. Once we’ve validated your information, we’ll respond with details on how to complete your student registration.
For the same price of a Bio 101 textbook, your student Disrupt ticket gets you an all-access pass to everything that makes Disrupt awesome. You’ll be able to take in all the lectures and interviews from a veritable who’s who in the startup community, folks like Handy CEO and co-founder Oisin Hanrahan, Outdoor Voices founder and CEO Tyler Haney, and GV Managing Partner David Krane, to name a few.
Plus, you’ll get to check out the hundreds of prominent early-stage startups on display in Startup Alley and Hardware Alley, watch a few dozen companies compete in the illustrious Startup Battlefield competition, and keep the good times going long after the show floor closes with the various parties and after-parties.
And that’s not even counting all the networking you’ll be doing throughout the show. You’ll be making tons of connections with some prominent people in the tech industry, folks that could become your first employer or business partner.
You can’t do any of it without a ticket, so start gathering your transcripts and IDs and drop us an email today.
Disrupt NY 2017 takes place May 15-17 at Manhattan’s Pier 36, and we can’t wait to see you all there!
Our sponsors help make Disrupt happen. If you are interested in learning more about sponsorship opportunities, please contact our sponsorship team at sponsors@techcrunch.com.
Uber’s adding a number of product updates to its UberEATS restaurant delivery product, some of which you may already have seen since they’ve been testing in various markets ahead of this broad launch. The updates include convenience features aimed at making it easier for users to order, receive and track their food, which is good news if you’re hungry (or if you will be at some point in the future, which is likely).
The updates include tailored recommendations, which surface the restaurants you use most frequently right at the top of your home screen, making it easier for users to go back to old favorites time and time again. If you want to get a bit more a la carte, there’s a new way to filter down the list of available restaurants by certain criteria, include the average speed of delivery, specific dietary concerns and restrictions, and price limits.
Other new features include a very useful one for office situations: customizable drop-off directions for drivers. You can specify exactly where you want the food left, including at your door or at the lobby, and you can even enter exact instructions that allow you to run outside and pick it up curbside if you just can’t wait to gobble that grub.
Order tracking is available throughout the process, so you can watch the preparation, delivery pickup and drive to your house and more. And you can now schedule out orders ahead of time, which is huge for people that don’t want to rely on what’s available on demand without any pre-planning. That’s basically at the top of my list for online ordering options, because I have this unshakeable feeling that my online orders are going into a void from whence no food will ever emerge.
“Some of these things are in the process of launching right now, some have launched a little prior to this discussion,” explained UberEATS product manager Calvin Lee on a phone call, noting that all these changes stem from iterations begun when the team realized that UberEATS was best-served with an app that stood alone, and offered a distinct experience from a ride hailing service.
“I think it just speaks to the work that our restaurant team, and our city operations and our sales team have been putting into bringing partners on board,” Lee said. UberEATS product manager Rachel Lin noted that they now have 46,000 restaurants on the platform, up from around 1,000 at launch, and that the number is growing quickly, and set to expand considerably with the forthcoming addition of South Korea and India to the list of markets it serves.
UberEATS is also now moving into regions where Uber itself isn’t available – there isn’t one in Korea, for instance, but EATS will launch soon. The emphasis on product and growth suggests that UberEATS has long since graduated from being a side bet, which Uber used to launch with fair frequency, and is now entirely a product line in its own right. Again – good news if you’re hungry.
SparkLabs founded its first accelerator in Seoul four years ago. Now it’s ready to tackle China. The program announced today that SparkLabs will open in Beijing on May 15 before expanding to Shanghai, Chengdu and hardware manufacturing hub.
Bernard Moon, co-founder of SparkLabs, said in an email that the accelerator began exploring options for entering China about two years ago “because we saw a trend in Chinese tech companies having more global influence. Not just the largest players (Baidu, Alibaba, Tencent), but even smaller players such as Xiaomi and Cheetah Mobile.”
For its Chinese accelerators, SparkLabs has partnered with Guoan Academy, a subsidiary of industrial conglomerate CITIC Guoan Group. Led by Colin Qu, SparkLabs Beijing will focus on helping Chinese startups expand into other countries.
It is open to a wide range of sectors, including artificial intelligence, virtual reality, mobile, the Internet of Things, gaming, financial tech and healthcare. “We will just avoid industries that take a lot of capital to prove out, such as pharma and cleantech,” Moon said.
Money has poured into Chinese tech startups from both venture capital funds and tech firms like Tencent, with the number of venture capital funds increasing dramatically last year and total investments reaching record highs (though the boom has slowed).
When asked how SparkLabs will set itself apart from a glut of other investors, Moon said “I believe our track record speaks for itself. Seventy-nine percent of our 65 graduates received global funding so far with an average over $3 million. The average raise prior to entering our program is over $400,000.” (SparkLabs has invested in 93 companies so far through its Seoul program (which is currently in its ninth cohort), Internet of Things accelerator and SparkLabs Global, a separate seed fund).
SparkLabs Beijing’s honorary advisory board includes Mandalay Entertainment CEO Peter Guber; Twitch co-founder/former Y Combinator partner Justin Kan; Lili Cheng, general manager of Fuse Labs at Microsoft; and LinkedIn co-founder Eric Ly. Its venture partners are former Kingsoft CTO Sun Shaw and Gang Lu, founder and CEO of TechNode (which manages TechCrunch China).

Featured Image: Linghe Zhao/Getty Images
PayPal is joining forces with Google’s Android Pay mobile payments platform, the companies announced this morning – an effort aimed at allowing PayPal to expand its footprint both within mobile applications as well as at brick-and-mortar retailers. The partnership will see PayPal becoming available as a payment method in the Android Pay service, which will allow U.S. users to pay for things like Uber as well as at retailers like Walgreens, and restaurants like Dunkin’ Donuts and Subway.
The integration in Android Pay will begin by allowing Android users to select their PayPal balance as a method of payment, but will expand to include the cards users have added to their PayPal account in the months ahead.
At launch, the partner integration is with Discover, so PayPal in the Android Pay wallet will work anywhere Android Pay and Discover are accepted.
The deal follows other moves on PayPal’s part to form partnerships with the major card networks, which also had similar goals of expanding PayPal’s footprint by joining forces with the incumbents, instead of doing battle with them.
Last summer, PayPal buried the hatchet with Visa making its online payments service an option when consumers pay with their smartphones in stores, and allowed Venmo users to instantly withdraw money when their Venmo account was linked to their Visa cards. At the time, the company described this effort as “a new PayPal” that is “actively partnering across the digital payments landscape.”
The company then inked a similar deal with MasterCard, again for store payments. That partnership also enabled MasterCard’s digital wallet service as a payment option for PayPal’s Braintree merchants.
 
One of the larger goals with these initiatives is to help PayPal establish more traction at point-of-sale, where Apple Pay is currently dominating. According to a recent report from Juniper Research, Apple Pay usage has nearly doubled year-over-year, and is expected to reach 86 million users by the end of this year. Samsung Pay and Android Pay are growing too, but have more limited traction. They are expected to reach 34 million and 24 million users, respectively, by the end of 2017.
PayPal has additionally made deals with Facebook, in its Messenger app and the third-party e-commerce bots its supports, and it already had a deal with Google to be available as a payment method in Google Play. PayPal’s Braintree has also enabled Android Pay as a form of payment since Android Pay launched.
The company says it processed $102 billion in mobile payment volume and two billion mobile payment transactions in 2016. That’s a signal that its partnership strategy appears to have been the better option for the older payments service as it tangles with Apple, which has the advantage of owning the hardware, the OS, and has a big stash of customers’ credit card information, thanks to its App Store and growing line of subscription services, like Apple Music and iCloud.
In its last earnings, PayPal saw strong revenue growth with revenue of $2.98 billion in the fourth quarter and adjusted earnings per share of 42 cents.
The PayPal integration with Android Pay will be available on Android OS 4.4 and higher, including KitKat, Lollipop, Marshmallow and Nougat.
It’s no secret that celebrities and athletes use social networks like Twitter, Facebook and Instagram to interact with their fans. But with all the noise on these platforms, it’s not always the easiest to engage on a deeper level. At least that’s what MLB players think.
So the Major League Baseball Players Association (MLBPA), the group that represents all players in the league, is launching an app called Infield Chatter.
The app is essentially a custom social network just for players and their fans.
Just like other social networks each person has their own profile and can post pictures, videos, etc. You can follow your favorite players (who are verified) and comment on their posts, and they can reply back.
There are also some more unique features – like Q&A sessions and contests to win player memorabilia and unique experiences with players. It’s also very much baseball themed – instead of “likes” you can give a “fist bump” to each post.
The best part? Over 1,000 MLB players are already onboard as registered users. This means there’s already tons of content for fans to start engaging with from day one.
Typically when apps like this are created they suffer from a major chicken and egg problem – fans won’t join until there are a bunch of players to engage with, and no player wants to take the time to sign up for an unheard of app that may never take off. That’s why it’s such a big deal that this was created by the players themselves. Since the app is being deployed by the MLBPA, literally every player in the league has an interest (both professionally, and potentially financially) in seeing that this takes off.



The MLBPA says that the app was built at the request of the players themselves, who wanted a more personal way to interact with fans, and presumably develop their personal brand in the process. While platforms like Twitter and Instagram certainly have a wide reach, most of us follow so many people it’s easy to miss the content we actually want to see.
So while a player may have a million followers, it’s likely that those fans also follow hundreds of other celebrity accounts in industries like news, entertainment – or just athletes playing other sports like football and basketball. With Infield Chatter fans get their own space just to focus on baseball.
“Other social media serve their purpose, and that’s fine. But there is a lot of crazy activity on some of those sites, and they’re not always the safest places to post personal stuff.  There hasn’t been a good spot for baseball fans to gather, until now.  I think this is one of the best programs that the players have agreed to work on together.” – Rajai Davis, Outfielder, Oakland A’s
So far, it seems like other players agree  – most of the content posted by players so far is much more informal than something they’d put on other platforms. For example, you may scroll through your feed and see a blurry behind the scenes locker room shot from your favorite player. In my opinion, this is much cooler than any professional photo a player would post on their Facebook. Players have also been commenting and replying to fans, which is definitely a neat thing that doesn’t happen as much on other platforms.
The app was built in tandem with a startup called Honeycommb, which helps build social communities for groups of fans. They most recently build a custom app for Lady Gaga to interact with her fans on a more personal level than that allowed by other social networks like Twitter.
As of now there’s no plan to generate revenue, but the association won’t totally rule it out. Advertisers would likely find a platform with such dedicated fans pretty enticing, meaning if enough fans join there could be some serious advertising opportunities for the MLBPA.
The app is live now and you can download it on the iOS App Store or Google Play.

Featured Image: Icon Sportswire/Getty Images
We know smartphone cameras have become good enough for casual photographers, but what about the pros?
Well, magazines like Billboard and Condé Nast Traveler have recently published covers that were photographed on an iPhone, and now Bon Appétit is joining their ranks.
This is basically the final step in bringing smartphone photography into the Condé Nast-owned food magazine. After all, the photos from last year’s Culture issue were shot by iPhones — except for the cover.
Creative Director Alex Grossman said it made sense to finally put an iPhone pic out front with the May travel issue, particularly given the connection between photography and travel. The cover was shot on an iPhone 7 Plus, in the Tlacolula Market of Oaxaca, Mexico, and it combines people and food, with a woman showing off a strawberry Paleta.
(Also worth noting: Apple is a Bon Appétit advertiser. In fact, an ad on the back cover will highlight the fact that the cover photo was taken on an iPhone.)
In Grossman’s view, the iPhone 7 “works really well picking up people and places.” That’s thanks to technical capabilities like the new Portrait mode, but also due to the fact that when you photograph someone with a smartphone, they don’t get nervous or upset, since it’s something that already happens to everyone “15 times a day.”
The cover was shot by photographers Peden + Munk, a.k.a. the husband-and-wife team of Taylor Peden and Jen Munkvold. Like Grossman, Peden praised the iPhone’s portability and the “comfortability not having some humongous lens in your face” — it allowed them to work with a tiny crew, so it felt like a “throwback to the early days” of their career.
“It didn’t feel like a big magazine cover shoot where there were a bunch of assistants and light reflectors,” Peden said. “It felt very comfortable and natural.”
Similarly, they said the VSCO app allowed them to edit photos while at their favorite bar or brunch spot, rather than having to drag out their laptop.



Peden and Munkvold made multiple trips to Oaxaca earlier this year. Munkvold recalled scouting locations on the first visit and creating a mood board of photos to show to Grossman — and since those photos were all taken on an iPhone, they were also geotagged, making it easy to find each spot again.

Related Articles
CALA’s app fits designer clothing to your body using iPhone photos
OOO is a camera toy that lets you play with zoom, make mini music videos
The Future Of News And Publishing
 Moving forward, Grossman said the iPhone can just become another part of Bon Appétit’s toolbox. Sure, it’s not at the point where the photos are completely comparable to “a $25,000 DSLR,” particularly in print — but if you shoot in the right conditions, “99.9 percent of people out there” might not know the difference.
“We always have to be pushing and evolving our aesthetic anyway,” Grossman said. “It doesn’t really matter whether it’s a phone or an illustration or cool type design, we’re always finding new ways, whatever they may be, to push our aesthetic.”
Munkvold added that while some pro photographers might be threatened by the way the iPhone puts a powerful camera in everyone’s hands, “We see it more as: Anything that will elevate the game is welcome.”




Isaac Porche is a senior engineer and program director of the Homeland Security Operational Analysis Center at the Rand Corporation. 




Brian Wisniewski
Contributor


Brian Wisniewski is an Army Reservist, a manager of engineering security at  Rockwell Autoation, and an adjunct researcher at the Rand Corporation.

Cyber threats have metastasized worldwide.
In the U.S., they have presented as security issues for critical infrastructure, such as industrial sites, and cast doubt on the integrity of crucial information technology systems used for elections –including many vulnerable voting machines themselves that are employed and managed at the state level.
Technological approaches to curbing or countering these cyber threats are proliferating, but they alone cannot offer adequate protection. What is needed is manpower: hundreds of thousands of information security professionals working in the private and public sectors to actively defend the cyber terrain on which America’s national security, prosperity and democracy depend.
Like many private companies and public agencies in the U.S., the Department of Defense struggles with a shortage of information security professionals. But RAND research suggests that the armed forces, and the nation more broadly, might already have some of the personnel resources it needs — in the ranks of its Reserves and National Guard.
RAND researchers studying the skills of personnel in the Army National Guard and the U.S. Army Reserve in 2015 estimated, conservatively, that more than 100,000 of these men and women have some degree of cyber competence, including thousands with deep or mid-level cyber expertise.
Many of these soldiers, like their counterparts in the reserve components of other military services, perform information security functions in their civilian careers, often in high-tech sectors. Some are serving in newly created reserve component cyber formations.
A growing proportion of service members in the reserve components are also “digital natives” — part of the younger generations who grew up using a wide variety of technologies. Many want to leverage their tech skills as part of their military duties.

The Department of Defense — and individual states across the country — would do well to tap into this pool of trained, vetted and often combat-experienced men and women available to extend the labor pool of information security professionals — personnel who could provide support to federal and state civilian authorities during times of crisis.
For example, the reserve component could be mobilized to help the Department of Homeland Security defend the industrial control systems of critical infrastructure experiencing an attack, especially the newest addition to the DHS list of critical infrastructure, the election system itself.
Other countries have begun to leverage civilian-acquired skills in their defense against cyber threats. In the wake of cyber attacks against its public and private internet infrastructure in 2007, Estonia announced plans to develop the Estonian Defence League, a collection of volunteers — now numbering in the hundreds — who are prepared to help the country respond to emerging cyber crises and attacks.

The U.S. has different options for filling shortfalls in its arsenal of information security professionals. In March, for example, Rep. Ruben Gallego (D-AR) proposed the creation of a “cyber national guard” to attract talented civilians who do not want to serve in the military, but are willing to contribute to the nation’s cyber defense.
The reserve components of the U.S. military are uniquely positioned to attract, train and manage a cadre of information security professionals who are able to operate both with the active components of the U.S. armed forces and with civilian authorities. Innovative approaches to recruiting, tracking readiness and career planning of these professionals will be required, and new models of reserve component participation and training might prove necessary.
There is every reason to believe that nefarious actors, including powerful nation-states, will continue to target critical infrastructure, the U.S. election system as a whole and information technology systems in general.
This threat to American democracy and our cyber way of life demands hands-on attention to the underlying machines and devices. Mitigating this threat with human resources will require the cyber equivalent of boots on the ground. The state of Ohio has already tapped its National Guard to defend its election system from hackers.
Time is running out to build an adequate nationwide defense for the next presidential election cycle, but many of the necessary personnel resources are right here — in the form of the Guard and the Reserves that are ready and willing to be called up to perform the mission.
Former Microsoft CEO Steve Ballmer has a new project, and it may just surprise you.
Ballmer is these days mostly known for owning the Los Angeles Clippers basketball team and a significant Twitter stake, but this week he is taking the wraps off USAFacts, a website chock-full of data related to U.S. Government spending.
The idea is to present the facts around the government, and its use of money, in a simple way that hasn’t been done to date. The New York Times reports that Ballmer has spent over $10 million on the three-year-old project, that includes hiring a team of Seattle-based researchers and giving a grant to the University of Pennsylvania to help gather data. The paper said he is prepared to continue to bankroll the program at an estimated cost of $3-5 million per year.
Ballmer, who describes the site as a 10K for the government, is particularly famous for his appreciation of numbers and data in arguments, which spills over from business into his personal life, too.
“I would like citizens to be able to use this to form intelligent opinions. People can disagree about what to do — I’m not going to tell people what to do,” he told the Times, adding that opinions should be based “on common data sets that are believable.”
USAFacts isn’t available to the public at the time of writing — a holding page says it will open up in “Spring 2017” — but it is expected to go live on Tuesday.
The project was first announced last November — through an interview with Bloomberg — and Ballmer stressed that it is nonpartisan and wholly factual.
Former President Barack Obama opened the veil on government data when he introduced an open data portal that provided some public information, but things are less clear under President Trump. Obama-era data has been archived and cleared, but thus far the Trump administration has neither posted new data nor commented on its plans for the system.
Ballmer said USAFacts takes some data from the White House project, alongside other government sources. The only rule, according to Ballmer, is to avoid information from outside parties in order to remain accurate.

Featured Image: Microsoft Sweden/Flickr UNDER A CC BY 2.0 LICENSE (IMAGE HAS BEEN MODIFIED)
Textile manufacturing takes a heavy toll on the environment, from the pesticides used to grow cotton to the polluted water created by dye runoff. Fashion’s short retail cycle also results in millions of tons of waste every year.
Plug and Play hopes that its new accelerator, called Plug and Play-Fashion for Good, will solve some of these issues by connecting textile startups with large retailers. The program, a partnership between Plug and Play, Fashion for Good, a global initiative founded by C&A Foundation, and luxury conglomerate Kering, whose brands include Gucci and Alexander McQueen, launched last week in Amsterdam.
Its first batch includes companies that create organic dyes from microorganisms (Pili-Bio) and cleaners from carbon dioxide to reduce water waste (Tersus). The full list of startups is: Agraloop, Amadou, Dragon, Dropel, ICA Bremen, MySource, MycoTex, Pili-bio, RePack, Sundar, Tersus and Tipa
Like Plug and Play’s other programs, the textile accelerator’s goal is to build relationships between startups and corporations, says Plug and Play founder and CEO Saeed Amidi. In this case, these include Walmart and Target, in addition to C&A Foundation and Kering.
“Technology can find a better way to dye clothes or a better way to grow cotton or reuse end-of-life clothing,” says Amidi. “We think the same process of accelerating software startups can be applied to fashion.”
Michael Olmstead, Plug and Play’s vice president of corporate partnerships, adds that the accelerator’s goals is to take innovation in the apparel industry beyond e-commerce companies.
“Fashion is one of the most polluting industries and we’re looking to really accelerate the transition to a very circular industry,” he says.
Some of the startups in Plug and Play—Fashion for Good’s first batch are developing new types of textiles made from plants. For example, Mycotex and Amadou both create leather substitutes from mushroom fibers, which are not only biodegradable, but may also help reduce methane emissions from livestock and pollutants from the tanning process.
Other companies, like ICA Bremen, focus on accountability in the manufacturing process. ICA Bremen uses nano-technology to create tiny tracers that allows manufacturers to keep track of how much organic cotton fiber a piece of fabric contains, an important criteria for organic certification.
One incentive for retailers is that young consumers are willing to spend extra on brands that cultivate a reputation for environmental responsibility.
“If you look at a generation that is really conscious of sustainability, it’s millennials,” Olmstead notes, “And they are obviously the ones who are spending money.”

Featured Image: Sinan Saglam/EyeEm/Getty Images
In 2008 I had the privilege to travel to Istanbul to check out the tech scene.  I’d arranged a tech startups meet-up with Arda Kutsal, a local blogger who’d started Webrazzi, a tech blog. I landed at the airport and caught a taxi to the hotel we’d agreed to meet at, thinking the meet-up would be in the bar. “No sir,” said the lady on reception, “your event is in the ballroom”. So, I trundled by carry-on luggage down the hall until I opened a huge door, only to find around 800 people listening to speeches. From the stage, Arda pointed to me said “Welcome Mike!” into the microphone, whereupon the whole ballroom swung around to see me standing there with my luggage.
Now, I’m telling you this story not merely to reminisce, but to illustrate how hungry the tech scene in Turkey was to develop. And develop it did. l
In the intervening years Webrazzi has grown to become, ‘effectively’ the TechCrunch of Turkey, operating its own conferences, while others have sprung up. Turkish startups like Trendyol appeared, started by Demet Mutlo, one of the many taking advantage of Turkey’s booming economy. With a population of 80 million, most of them under 30, Turkey looked like it had a bright future. Even as the dark clouds of political unrest started to appear a few years ago, those seemed like a side-show to the wider boom that was taking place.
But when riot police started brutally evicting protesters from the last central city park not to be taken over by yet another shopping mall linked to the ruling elite, the overall signs were not good.
And so, to the present. President Erdogan has declared victory in Turkey’s historic referendum on a new constitution that will turn the country from a parliamentary democracy into a presidential one. But unlike in the US, the president will be handed sweeping powers, with few checks and balances. Turkey, it seems, is suddenly going backwards.
Just as with Brexit, the referendum has divided the country right down the middle. And in sophisticated, urbanite Istanbul, the people there dismissed what they saw as a grab for power by the President.
Barring an unforeseen and unlikely challenge, Erdogan will now be in power until 2029 — longer than Kemal Ataturk, the nation’s founder.  Since last year’s coup attempt, he has cast his opponents as terrorists, jailed opposition leaders and journalists, dominated the airwaves and shut down almost all opposition media.
He will now have to win an election in 2019 to acquire these new executive powers, so everything is at stake for him, and Turkey isn’t about to get any calmer. As David L. Phillips, of the Institute for the Study of Human Rights at Columbia University, says: “Turkey’s western orientation is finished.”
So where does this leave Turkey’s tech startup industry?
The major concerns are two-fold: what will venture capital do and will the talent stay?
A significant global investor told me off the record that he thinks this will play out as “a Russia story.” The referendum result, he says, adds a significant risk factor for foreign capital going into the country, when there will be uncertainty around property rights and exit opportunities. Russia has had its entrepreneurial successes, but there was always a massive political overhang. That scenario is now far more likely in Turkey.
Depending on what companies are concerned, you might of course be able to  minimise exposure to the political environment. Some might even benefit from the situation, as Yandex did in Russia, which effectively ‘played ball’ with the Putin-controlled Kremlin.
So far, investors are playing it cool.
Cem Sertoglu of Early Bird Capital commented to me: “Interest from non-committed VCs has been very low recently, so I can’t imagine this getting worse. Local Turkish startups continue to grow with the massive market opportunity. I don’t think the referendum will play a big part. Talent wars are global these days, and those at the high-end have global demand.”
Oddly enough the referendum may make Turkish startups think more globally. Those that want to will start finding ways of finding an exit route through moving their HQ to the EU or US and keeping their engineering base in the country.
And Turkish entrepreneurs and investors are used to instability and political uncertainty.
Journalist, author and Turkey expert Elmira Bayrasli says: “If there is any hope left in Turkey, it is among the entrepreneurs and startups. The good news is that Turkish entrepreneurs are used to this. The challenge is the unpredictability of the government. It has to focus on the economy now — but I fear it won’t. It’s a rough, rough road ahead. But startups will continue… In the short term capital won’t go in. If the political situation manages to stabilize – and the state of emergency is lifted, investors might come back, but with weariness.”
My old friend Arda Kutsal says: “As long as there are good startups, VCs will keep an eye on Turkey. Last week iyzico, a Turkish fintech startup closed $15M funding from foreign investors. I believe investors don’t care about politics as long as there is a good business potential. The good thing is, the referendum is now over. There is no ‘uncertainty’ anymore. So, I guess as everyday business gets back to normal in Turkey, foreign investors’ interest will increase in the short term.”
Demet Mutlu, foundef of Trendyol says: “Turkey is still a massive market opportunity, with 50% of the population under 30. Good startups will continue to do well, and scale, weak ones might have more challenge for funding.”
But, given Erdogan will now effectively fight another campaign for the election to come in the next 2 years, it hardly seems like the atmosphere is going to become less shrill.
The bigger risk to Turkey’s tech future is from the flight of talent. The problems come when the engineers and entrepreneurs themselves want to leave.
Reliable sources attest to this already happening and the pace is likely to quicken, at least for those 48% of the population that don’t support Erdogan, so divided has the country become.
Turkish entrepreneur Honor Gunday tells me: “You should see the number of applicants to our European offices from Turkish candidates. The most snobbish, qualified high wage earning candidates are now looking for an escape. It is sad.”
Corporates have also left. Hipster hotel chain Mama Shelter has already shut down their brand new hotel; Citibank exited two years ago and HSBC stopped half of its business. Paypal and Skrill had to leave due to new regulation. Booking.com was banned last week.
Turkey can of course try to fall back on is its momentum as a nexus between Europe and the East, as it always has throughout history.  But despite a stable Lire, the macro economic outlook does not look great. Tourism makes up 14% of the Turkish economy and it’s already plummet by 8% this year. Turkish Airlines is not doing well, Turkish construction companies are banned in Russia. The list goes on.
The world of tech is likely to find Turkey blowing hot and cold. Erdogan will probably get around to cutting off Twitter and YouTube as he has done sporadically already. And he will find it much easier to do now.
Burak Buyukdemir, cofounder of founder Startups Istanbul, says: “There are good and bad scenarios. Good one is we will grow like South Korea did in 1960’s the other bad scenario is we will stuck with inner politics & next elections which will trigger more brain drain. Capitalist economy always looks for the opportunities. Risk versus returns. Turkey will be always a great market for investing. Our risk premium may increase but still be attractive country to invest.”
The country could of course promote startup culture to try to attract inward investment. But does Erdogan remind you of a tech-friendly Obama?
Not really.
Today’s Stories 

New York’s Taxi commission to propose in-app tipping requirement for Uber
Google reaches $7.8 million settlement in its Android antitrust case in Russia
Facebook issues statement after murder suspect shares video of shooting in Cleveland
Instagram now lets you organize bookmarks into private collections
Steve Jobs’ custom Apple I and other historic machines are on display at Seattle museum

Credits
Written and Hosted by: Anthony HaFilmed & Teleprompter by: Matthew MauroEdited by: John Murillo
Notes
Tito Hamze is on vacation until April 27.



In 1999 the eponymous owner of the popular proto-blog Stile Project wrote a post called “The Mercury Effect.”
In it Stile described receiving a video from some fans who had, if I remember correctly, tortured a stray cat to death in his honor; they appeared to have been inspired by the other shocking material he’d posted and solicited. Stile briefly discussed the despondency into which this event had plunged him and his failing hopes for the human race. The title referred to the madness visited upon haberdashers by an invisible force, something to which he perhaps sensed a modern analog.
He concluded: “Something wonderful is going to happen at midnight.” That night, he turned on his webcam’s live broadcast function, stepped onto a chair, and hung himself.
Or appeared to. A few days and a great deal of speculation later, it was revealed that the whole thing was a hoax, something Stile was fond of perpetrating — though this one was especially cruel. All this material has passed from the internet’s memory (even Archive.org’s), but I’ve never been able to forget it.
This horrible little episode seems a to me a spiritual precursor to this weekend’s all-too-real socially promoted murder, and the issues that have resurfaced in its wake. But for all the talk about content moderation, machine learning, flag-monitoring algorithms, the problem isn’t the platform, and it isn’t one that can be solved by the platform. That’s because the problem is people.
I wrote a while back in Hate that not only is it naive to think the tools we create won’t be used for evil, but it’s irresponsible to pretend so. This is just another example of that. Connect depressed people with a support network here, and you connect white supremacists with gun dealers there. You make a forum for supporting recent immigrants here, and you make one for choosing women to harass there. Let a zoo share a baby giraffe with millions, let someone else stream the murder of a stranger.
This is a direct, unavoidable consequence of the tools; they’re not being “abused” or “misappropriated.” Routers and switches don’t care if they relay coding tutorials or child porn, just like a car doesn’t care whether you drive it into a garage or a crowd.
By empowering people to broadcast themselves, you empower the meek and the oppressed equally as much as the dangerous and the hateful.
What did you expect? Those people are out there in their millions. They want you to experience the extent of their hate just as much as a lonely kid wants to get support from her peers. As with the Morlocks in The Time Machine, every once in a while those of us living in blissful ignorance are reminded of their presence by some horrific act. That sort of thing was always happening, but now you’re aware of it. Thanks, internet.
Pick your fail state
You won’t like the solutions.
The first one is: disconnect. Don’t use the tools of the information age to connect with the world at large. I think we can all agree that it’s a little late to try putting that particular genie back in the bottle. Even if millions of people submitted themselves to a modern asceticism and denied themselves access to social media and other communication tools, it accomplishes nothing. If anything, it merely moves the needle of the remaining online population towards the side of extreme sharing. So we can forget about disconnecting.

Related Articles
Facebook releases timeline of Cleveland shooting videos
Facebook will never take responsibility for fake news
Tech must take on hate
The second one is: submit to extremely invasive content monitoring. Live TV has faced a problem that is at least superficially similar and networks’ solution — delayed live broadcasting and someone with their finger on the “cut to commercial” button — works, after a fashion. But the volume of material put on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram and so on is such that this approach is quickly rendered absurd. Even hundreds of thousands of moderators assisted by the latest tools struggle to keep up with the fraud, gore, and porn that would otherwise engulf the web.

Could machine learning algorithms eventually learn the difference between a sleeping person and a dead one? A scene from an action move and a real murder? There is great promise here but the flip side of that is the idea that everything you create will be analyzed frame by frame, every action categorized and recorded with a granularity that may creep out even the most permissive and laissez-faire of us. And even if the machines had their way with our content, it would still require an army of humans to verify each decision. Platforms have already learned that lesson.
The only feasible way to vet content quickly and accurately is through the community, but it is in order that it may be provided to that community that the content must be vetted. It’s a Gordian Knot, and us without a sword.
The third “solution” is to admit there isn’t one. Admit the problem as it stands can’t be resolved, that solutions at best merely hide or delay it, that the fundamental nature of the tools and platforms we’ve created enables both miracles and enormities. We can appreciate the former while doing our best to combat the causes of the latter. If people didn’t go around killing each other all the time, we wouldn’t be forced into uncomfortable acknowledgement of the fact that all is not well in the world. Wouldn’t that be nice?
So, the elevation of humanity’s ethical acumen. More of a long-term goal, I’d say.
The best policy
The thing is, the kind of philosophically-inclined defeatism I just endorsed isn’t really a crowd pleaser. When you’ve got a billion angry users and a board breathing down your neck, you’ve got to take action — even when there’s no action to take. But in this case can you, or more specifically Mark Zuckerberg, even say “we’re working on it”?
We know as well as he does that Facebook can’t prevent this stuff. The risk is baked into the platform. Real-time sharing is fundamental to the company’s vision of the future of communication. It’s too late to go back on that. The best they can hope to do is react faster.
Can he lie, or prevaricate, about their hopes to solve this, and get away with it? Because there isn’t really a way forward; in a few weeks or months, when something like this happens again, he’ll be called to account. The reality of the problem’s insolubility will catch up to any promises he makes. So why make them? People aren’t going to leave Facebook because it has no way of censoring the real world.
In this case, Zuckerberg’s position is stable enough that he may well tell the (relatively) unvarnished truth, albeit with the frame of reference changed a little. The risk of unwillingly hosting atrocities is inherent to Facebook’s mission (he will say) to connect all the people of the globe. There is no way to prevent it except by infringing on the privileges, perhaps even the rights, of those people — and Facebook will always decline to do that. What’s more, he may add, sunlight is after all the best disinfectant. We have to know of these people, these problems, before we can address them.
Shall we remain inside our safe little bubble, hearing only that which pleases us and seeing not that which frightens or confuses us? Shall we be forever free of cognitive dissonance, isolated from disharmony long enough that we forget that we are surrounded with it, a few of us merely lucky enough to have the choice of ignoring it? Well, maybe Zuck won’t say that exactly, but the sentiment, I suspect, may come through.
We’re only human, and the internet reflects that. What’s to fix?


Uber has lost yet another executive to continue the exodus of departures at the transportation company, Automotive News reports. This time, it’s Uber VP of Global Vehicle Programs Sherif Marakby, who helped launch Uber’s self-driving program in Pittsburgh.
“Sherif’s deep experience and knowledge of the automotive industry have helped us tremendously in working to make self-driving cars a reality,” an Uber spokesperson said in a statement to TechCrunch.
It’s not clear why Marakby left but Uber told Auto News that it was not related to the lawsuit with Waymo. It’s also not clear if he left as a result of the sexual harassment allegations, but something tells me that scandal probably didn’t make him particularly pumped to stick around. Marakby joined Uber last April after working at Ford for 25 years.
“Self-driving is one of the most interesting challenges I’ve worked on in my career, and I’m grateful to have contributed  to what will soon be a safer future for everyone,” Marakby said in a statement.
In the past few months, a gazillion people have left Uber. Ok, a gazillion is a bit of an exaggeration, but Marakby’s departure comes not too long after Uber lost its head of comms, president, head of AI Labs, VP of growth and SVP of engineering.
Facebook is facing backlash after a Cleveland man uploaded a video of himself shooting someone to the social network, and followed it with a Live video confessing to the murder. The slaying and its subsequent distribution across Facebook has raised questions about how the company moderates violent content.
Justin Osofsky, Facebook’s vice president of global operations, released a statement and timeline of the events and videos surrounding the incident.
Osofsky’s statements hand off the responsibility for policing content on Facebook to its users, although he acknowledged the company can do better at moderation. He says artificial intelligence and new policies governing how videos are shared could present solutions to the issue, and that Facebook will try to speed up its current review process.
“As a result of this terrible series of events, we are reviewing our reporting flows to be sure people can report videos and other material that violates our standards as easily and quickly as possible. In this case, we did not receive a report about the first video, and we only received a report about the second video — containing the shooting — more than an hour and 45 minutes after it was posted. We received reports about the third video, containing the man’s live confession, only after it had ended,” Osofsky wrote.
11:09AM PDT — First video, of intent to murder, uploaded. Not reported to Facebook.
11:11AM PDT — Second video, of shooting, uploaded.
11:22AM PDT — Suspect confesses to murder while using Live, is live for 5 minutes.
11:27AM PDT — Live ends, and Live video is first reported shortly after.
12:59PM PDT — Video of shooting is first reported.
1:22PM PDT — Suspect’s account disabled; all videos no longer visible to public.
The timeline demonstrates the failures of Facebook’s moderation system, which relies on user reports to flag controversial or violent content. While the Live video of the man’s confession was quickly reported by another user, the video of the killing itself went unreported and therefore remained online for nearly two hours.
“Artificial intelligence, for example, plays an important part in this work, helping us prevent the videos from being reshared in their entirety. (People are still able to share portions of the videos in order to condemn them or for public awareness, as many news outlets are doing in reporting the story online and on television),” Osofsky said.
Even with advances in artificial intelligence, it’s not clear that Facebook can prevent Live from being used to broadcast violence. The livestreaming service has already been used to share videos of shootings, torture, and sexual assault. And while users are angry at Facebook for allowing the Cleveland killing to be livestreamed, users were also outraged when a “technical glitch” caused the removal of video documenting the police murder of Philando Castile. Osofsky says that the Cleveland videos “goes against our policies and everything we stand for,” but there are times when users will expect Facebook to preserve violent videos because they have political importance. It’s a delicate balance, and one that isn’t likely to be solved by AI alone.
“Facebook isn’t going to stop a murder. And I don’t care how good the AI gets, it’s unlikely any time soon to say ‘hey, that video is some person killing another person, don’t stream that.'” Mike Masnick noted on Techdirt. “Yes, senseless murders and violence lead people to go searching for answers, but sometimes there are no answers. And demanding answers from a random tool that was peripherally used connected to the senseless violence doesn’t seem helpful at all.”





One of the biggest tech concepts we take for granted today was essentially unheard of before Facebook launched its Platform 10 years ago. While there were “social networks,” the rest of the web didn’t care much about who you were or who you were friends with.
This is before we “logged in with Facebook” not just on it. Before sites were peppered with sharing buttons. Before every app wanted you to invite your contacts.
“The core thesis in 2007 was that if you looked at pre-2007 social networks, there were ‘social networks’ that were social, and basically everything else was not social,” Facebook’s CEO Mark Zuckerberg tells me. “The theory was almost everything should have social components. I think that’s been borne-out over the last decade.”
Yet opening its audience to outside developers came with a steep learning curve. Social apps must be accompanied by social norms about respecting people’s time and attention. Facebook is still getting the hang of that.
On its 10th anniversary, a series of interviews with Mark Zuckerberg and other team members reveal how the Facebook Platform shook out — and shook everything up.
Social by design
In 2007, Facebook was experiencing unprecedented viral growth thanks in part to its freshly launched News Feed. Given the right skeleton, it discovered people would flesh out a social network with not only their content, but their identities. The blue beast was alive. The scrappy young company could hardly keep up.
Yet the team had a hazy, crazy idea that belayed its humble dorm-room beginnings. Facebook didn’t know what people wanted it to build, so what if it let anyone build apps on top?

A year later, with the launch of the Facebook Connect part of the platform, it posed another peculiar question: If we let people log in elsewhere with their Facebook account and bring along their interests and social graphs, could any website become “social”?
The answers would surprise Facebook’s executives and spawn a legion of new businesses, entrenching the company while changing the internet from a solo experience to a group one. Those same answers would also force Facebook to adapt to unforeseen trends, retreat from unsustainably spammy features and crater some of the new business built on the fledgling platform.
Word of mouth is a top driver of popularity for any product. Facebook’s “social by design” philosophy sought to give each app its own voice users could speak through to rally their friends to enhance their collective experience.
Suddenly, Facebook’s exclusive relationship with its users became a tumultuous, bizarre love triangle between itself, the public and its developers. One where the users were put first, even if it meant sacrificing immediate monetization of its site and the existence of some app makers.
“Crazy Time”
“There was no playbook for what we were doing. No one had built this sort of platform before,” says Ami Vora, a Facebook product director who joined the initial team of five core engineers who had been working on the launch for the first F8 conference. “We didn’t exactly know what would happen next to the developer community. We were really just trying to learn what we were doing as we were doing it.”
Vora had been working at Microsoft, a more conservative tech titan. What we think of as the “closed private beta” stage of modern platforms before they launch and open up was how many platforms ran permanently. Current Platform team member and Facebook VP of partnerships Ime Archibong tells me he came from IBM, which was “known for building proprietary stacks up and down themselves.”
The promise of pioneering a new way to work with developers lured fresh talent to Facebook. And the geyser of user growth it had tapped into attracted developers thirsty for attention.
Mark Zuckerberg onstage at the first F8 in 2007
Vora describes the “sleepless excitement” of this hockey stick-growth moment at Facebook. “One of our catch phrases was “‘crazy time?'” Employees felt the immense gravity of this phase of Facebook’s ascent. “You’d just nod to the person you were passing [in the office] and say ‘crazy time?'”
In fact, employees spent the days running up to F8 frantically updating Facebook’s marketing materials. Everything said 19 million users, but Facebook hit 20 million in the days before the event. The company scheduled a “20 million users party” for a few weeks later, “but by then we had 25 million users,” Vora laughs.
After running the conference all day where Facebook announced the Platform, the core team retreated to a nearby hotel’s conference room it had established as its “war room.” There, on a spotty Wi-Fi connection and patchwork of mobile hotspots, Facebook’s Platform launched.
With V1, Facebook lets developers create “canvas applications” within its desktop site. These experiences could be personalized with a user’s identity, and connect people to friends who were also using the app. Developers could build games and social utilities, or offer a “Profile Box” app that let you spruce up your personal presence on Facebook.
Facebook had dismantled two of the biggest barriers to people trying new web services. Users didn’t have to set up a separate username and password for each service, and they didn’t have to build a unique social graph there. Meanwhile, the lucrative viral channels helped developers rapidly build their audience as people invited their friends.
Within a few months, 7,000 apps had been built on the Facebook Platform. That number would grow to 33,000 in a year. In five years there were more than 9 million apps and sites integrated with Facebook. And now, after a decade, Facebook has paid out almost $10 billion to its app developers.
“I remember talking to entrepreneurs in the weeks after F8 who were spending half of their day every day driving around trying to get whatever servers they could because they were experiencing so much growth,” Vora says. Stanford University even created a Computer Science class where students had to build Facebook applications.
In 2008, Facebook opened the second wing of its Platform, “Facebook Connect,” which let third-party websites, from news publishers to utilities, offer Facebook login, personalization and instant sharing to the News Feed. Facebook effectively colonized the web, giving its citizens easy access abroad while funneling content back to the motherland. The Like button soon became Facebook’s calling card.
But while developers on Facebook’s Platform would blossom into giant businesses like Zynga, others would end up as collateral damage as Facebook wrestled to control what it created.
Open to surprises
The overarching strategy for Facebook’s Platform was that “it should be open. Anyone should be able to build on the platform,” says Archibong. “Given that we aren’t going to be able to prioritize all this stuff, we don’t have enough engineers to build all the stuff we want to build, and arguably, we won’t know what the world and what people ultimately want, if we extend our Platform to developers, they’ll be able to build for these communities.”
That openness also forced Facebook to go where the platform pulled it. Sometimes that meant scrambling to support and survive unexpected success, as with gaming.
“I thought it was really fun. We all just threw sheep at each other.”— Ami Vora, Facebook product director
Facebook didn’t quite predict how well its desktop canvas Platform would work for spreading simple social games. Eager for distraction and with dense social graphs on the network, the college-centered Facebook demographic frittered away immense amounts of time and money on games like Zynga Poker and FarmVille. Facebook would have to build an entire international payments infrastructure around the burgeoning games industry.
Facebook VP of Partnerships Ime Archibong
But games also threatened to kill Facebook. What some considered playful socializing others found deeply annoying. Developers seized on the viral invite and request channels Facebook offered, designing their games to heavily reward users who sucked in their friends. You either spent hours and hours watering your make-believe FarmVille crops, paid real money to keep them alive or begged your friends to sign up and help you.

“I thought it was really fun,” Vora says wistfully, showing the strength of Facebook’s cult Kool-Aid. “Remember with ‘SuperPoke’ we all just threw sheep at each other!?! Who knew that would bring so much joy. [It was] an interesting way to express your friendship with someone and bring just a little touch of lightness to your day.” Indeed; 60 million people ended up hooked on FarmVille, deriving some kind of value from the game.
Developing whiplash
Others did not think it was really fun. I did not think it was really fun. Facebook had been a way to connect online about your real life, not play pretend in a frivolous virtual universe. Sure, some might find companionship in cooperating around games. But the News Feed of updates about friends’ vacations and new jobs was overrun with viral game spam.
Zuckerberg eventually admitted half of Facebook might not want to see this content, severely curtailed its prominence in the feed and thereby dashed the growth dreams of some developers. Meanwhile, Facebook removed the entire Profile Box part of the Platform after profile customization ran amok and put the site in danger of becoming another slow-loading, buggy mess like Myspace.
Facebook game spam
Had these parts of the platform remained unchecked, they might have poisoned the populace before other developers could try their hand with chatbots and camera effects a decade later. Still, some devs felt like Facebook had pulled the rug out from under them. Startups had raised money and hired employees, betting on Facebook’s Platform to distribute their products. It was the developers who got the short end as Facebook tried to balance their needs with its own and those of the users.
This is a theme that’s played out over and over in the 10 years since.
The struggle to find this balance might stem from Facebook’s seemingly naive perspective that its partners prioritize the long-term satisfaction of the social network’s users, and Facebook by proxy, as Facebook does itself.
“Everyone knew we were building an ecosystem, and no one would be successful unless we were doing the right thing for people,” Vora insists. “Even the hard conversations were grounded in this knowledge.”
“The ability to take such a long-term view on things I think allows you to have open, candid conversations about what the future looks like with partners” says Archibong. “That may mean . . . things that were arguably not as good anymore for the partner or the developer but that we collectively knew were good for people over the long run.”
But this framework falsely delineates between the needs of users and Facebook. If developer spam drowned out the social content people came to Facebook for, the users would have a bad experience… but that would quickly lead to them leaving the social network, depriving it of fulfilling its mission and filling its bank accounts.
This prioritization has kept users happy, Facebook earnings billions of dollars in profit per quarter and its Platform open to new waves of developers. But it’s also left a trail of dead apps and battered businesses.
Zynga struggled as a public company after Facebook deleted viral channels that helped it get huge in the early days of the Platform. BandPage, makers of  landing tab app for musicians’ Facebook Pages, was once the second-most popular developer behind Zynga and had just raised a $16 million Series B. But when Facebook decided these landing tabs made the user experience “inconsistent” and suddenly shut them down, BandPage lost 90 percent of its traffic. It dropped from 35 million active users to 3 million in a few months, and after several failed pivots was sold to YouTube in a fire sale for a fraction of the cash it had raised.
BandPage lost 90 percent of its users after Facebook suddenly killed off the Page landing tab part of its Platform
Yet Vora and Archibong repeatedly defended the limitations and changes to Facebook’s Platform as consensual. “I think most of those folks also understood, and were excited about the power they had gotten from the Facebook Platform. iLike woke up the next morning with 50,000 users, which was something they never expected,” Vora recalls. She doesn’t mention that iLike withered after the Profile Box was shut down.
Archibong defends the tumultuous point of Facebook’s history, saying, “You actually find that conversations that from the outside looking in may look really difficult and probably seem really tough because they have both business impact for Facebook or the developer are actually okay because it’s not a transactional relationship.”
Maybe not for Facebook. With enough traction and network effect, it could outlive its Platform pivots. Still, for some developers, diverting their roadmap in search of Facebook-fueled growth was a transaction where the Platform’s exchange rate suddenly spiked.
Facebook would spend the next few years trumpeting its “Operation Developer Love,” where it tried to give app makers more warning about big changes on the roadmap and work with them more closely to ensure they were earning enough to validate the engineering time they poured into the Platform.
Balancing the bizarre love triangle
The cycle of “too much virality -> too much spam -> dial back virality -> pivot the platform” has played out nearly a half dozen times since.
In 2011 Facebook launched the Open Graph platform to let apps like Spotify or Wall Street Journal’s Facebook News Reader automatically publish users’ listening or reading activity to the News Feed.
Facebook ended up reducing the number of music stories in the main News Feed and removing the side “Ticker” that embarrassed people by sharing their guilty pleasure rock-outs with everyone they know. When Facebook decided stories about users opening click-bait articles in Open Graph News Readers weren’t valuable enough, it downranked the apps, traffic dried up and publishers abandoned that part of the platform.
Mark Zuckerberg discusses Facebook’s Platform partnerships with news outlets at F8 2010
On the other side of the spectrum, that same year Facebook tried to launch its own HTML5 mobile web app platform. It had been shut out of charging the same 30 percent tax on game payments it did on desktop computers when users shifted iOS and Android devices. But this time Facebook gave developers too few growth options, and weary from its past waffling, they never adopted Facebook’s “Project Spartan,” and that Platform dried up.
Most recently, Facebook’s Instant Articles promised a publishing platform that would drive more traffic for news outlets that host their content inside Facebook’s app so it loads faster. But Facebook’s iron grip on how publishers could show ads, email newsletter widgets, subscription sign-ups and their own design identity made the format a bad deal.
Instant Articles essentially turned publishers into ghost writers, creating dumb content for Facebook’s smart pipes rather than deepening their relationships with readers directly. Facebook tried to loosen up, but now major outlets like The New York Times, Vice News and the Los Angeles Times have abandoned Instant Articles.
Playing the long game
Clearly Facebook is still grappling with how to give developers enough support that they join its Platforms but not so much that they disrupt the network’s equilibrium. Where it’s succeeded is internalizing one thing it got wrong 10 years ago: As long as you don’t drive the users away, you always get another chance.

News articles were kept from overshadowing personal updates, and now publishers still see a massive chunk of referral traffic from the News Feed. Facebook dumped HTML5, but now is spinning up new games platforms within Messenger and a new Steam-like desktop app. Open Graph auto-sharing fizzled, but Facebook’s Account Kit has flourished by allowing any app to use phone numbers and SMS for sign-up.
Whether Facebook is getting better at managing developer expectations or it just holds enough power to offset some missteps, it’s managed to keep its Platform well-populated. And now Facebook is expanding the definition of “developer” to include brands, small businesses and more.
Zuckerberg tells me a high percentage of top-grossing mobile apps offer Facebook login or other Platform features. “I think that’s pretty widespread, but then even the ones who aren’t using our tools I think have generally adopted this approach of every app, whether it’s an enterprise app or whatever it is, I think should have some kind of social sharing. I think that that idea, that’s been pretty cool to see.”
Mark Zuckerberg at F8 2016
Now Facebook is prepping a “Camera Effects Platform” to let developers help you augment your photos and videos. Snapchat also wants to give you a breadth of creative tools to enhance your social media sharing, but has never cultivated a developer ecosystem before.
With so many mistakes to make and fragile balances to maintain, a decade of wisdom could give Facebook a leg up over younger competitors. Though it doesn’t have a perfect track record as a Platform, at least Facebook does have a track record. Being older than some of its own users might not be cool, but it has its advantages.

Netflix whiffed today in its first-quarter earnings when it came to subscriber growth, missing the expectations it set at the beginning of the year for the first quarter.
Still, Netflix said it is expecting to add 600,000 domestic subscribers and 2.6 million international subscribers in the second quarter. That would bring it over the hump to get it past that 100 million mark that — again — may be some kind of signal of faith for the company as it looks to continue growing internationally amid heavy spend on content. The subscriber numbers are more or less the key part of Netflix’s business because it’ll determine whether or not it can level off the spend on content to grow and keep users around against the revenue it generates from those subscribers.
Getting that growth up is going to be even more important given the amount of money Netflix has to invest to get those subscribers to stick around and gather new ones. In addition to the costs of producing original content, Netflix also said it would spend $1 billion in marketing this year.
“As part of this, we are investing more in programmatic advertising with the aim of improving our ability to do individualized marketing at scale and to deliver the right ad to the right person at the right time,” the company said in the earnings release.
In the end, shares of Netflix fell around 3% following the report, but it could have been quite a bit worse. Netflix can be prone to major swings in its stock price based on the subscriber numbers it delivers every quarter. The last one looked good, so they saw a pretty hefty stock jump. Netflix reported earnings of 40 cents per share on revenue of $2.64 billion. Analysts were also expecting earnings of 37 cents per share on revenue of $2.64 billion. Near-term, things might not have looked that great, but the better-than-expected guidance seems enough to buoy enough major suspicions about its future potential.
The company added 1.42 million domestic subscribers and 3.53 million international subscribers. Netflix itself projected that it would add 5.2 million subscribers in the first quarter — 1.5 million in the U.S. and 3.7 million internationally. That estimate would have brought Netflix to 99 million subscribers, tantalizingly close to a nice round number that may or may not impress investors going forward.

Related Articles
TechCrunch's first-quarter tech earnings season prop bets
Box's Levie touts positive cash flow
Pandora falls 4% on earnings news
Twitter says product changes are main growth driver, not just the President's usage
In January, Netflix reported domestic subscriber growth that was much stronger than what Wall Street was expecting, which ended up sending the stock price soaring. It was a pleasant surprise — and maybe a relief — given that a lot of the focus and attention was given to its international expansion after it decided to open up to a wide array of new countries. International growth, too, beat expectations, with the company adding 5 million new subscribers.
In the past year, Netflix has seen a steady climb up as it looks like its expansion plans aren’t running into its major issues, though it has a lot of big markets that it has to get into. It also has to invest heavily in original content for those new markets, given that it can’t just rely fully on its existing library and the content that does well in its domestic markets. Last quarter, Hastings pointed to a new show called The 3% that was launched in Brazil and was highly successful.


Netflix’s report today kicks off the first quarter of the tech earnings season. Following a string of successful IPOs through the first quarter, we’ll see how industry observers will be reacting to what the rest of the tech world is delivering.

Featured Image: AP Photo/Paul Sakuma
Alice Lloyd George
Contributor



Alice Lloyd George is an investor at RRE Ventures and the host of Flux, a series of podcast conversations with leaders in frontier technology. 

			More posts by this contributor:			
Launching an aerospace startup at Mach 2 with your hair on fire
Discussing the limits of artificial intelligence



At this moment there are more than 500,000 pieces of space debris hurtling around the Earth. Traveling at speeds of up to 40,000 kilometers per hour, a satellite collision with these fragments is enough to damage and even destroy our communications networks.
Accion Systems is building the technology to prevent that. The company, which spun out of MIT in 2014, manufactures ion engines that enable satellites to maneuver in space and avoid these collisions.
In an interview for Flux, I sat down with Natalya Bailey, the co-founder and CEO of Accion Systems. She reveals how the company is able to meet the needs of the burgeoning small satellite industry and why legacy manufacturers can’t keep up, how she’s handled the jump from academia to business and what she’s learned from Bill Swanson of Raytheon about managing a team.
Bailey also discusses how the Apollo mission helped push computing forward, why space exploration is critical for our survival and how to get more women into STEM fields.
An excerpt of the conversation is published below.
Natalya Bailey, co-founder and chief executive of Accion Systems, holds a 1U CubeSat prototype with four microthruster modules.
 
AMLG: Today I’m excited to welcome Natalia Bailey, founder and CEO of Accion Systems. Accion was founded three years ago  —  they build liquid ion systems that power the electric propulsion in satellites. It’s a technology that could change the dynamics in space by enabling satellites to maneuver and reposition, extending their lifetime, which is pretty huge, and could be used for a lot of missions including (one day) interplanetary exploration. Welcome Natalya, great to have you here.
NB: Thanks for having me on the show.
AMLG: Let’s jump in. I’d love to hear how you came to found Accion  —  how did you get where you are now?
NB: My path to founding Accion started with my interest in studying space propulsion and doing research in the field. That brought me to MIT for my PhD in aeronautics and astronautics.
Actually prior to starting there, I was doing my masters at Duke and tried to start a rocket company, with different technology but similar ideas, and that company kind of imploded. I thought that would be my last go at entrepreneurship and startups, so I went to do my PhD and thought I would end up as a professor or at a research lab. And I started working on this new type of ion engine. We ended up getting a lot of interest from industry. The timing was phenomenal  — as we were testing proof of concept of this technology the whole industry was getting more interested in smaller satellites. There was this huge technology gap as far as propulsion goes and we were working on exactly the thing that could fill that gap. We had some of the big aerospace companies, the Lockheeds and the Boeings of the world, coming to MIT and trying to license the technology or buy systems from MIT. My research advisor remembered that I had tried to start a company once before so he knew I had entrepreneurial leanings and suggested I try again.
It was in 2012 that my labmate and I decided to spin out, so we formed a placeholder company to grab the IP. Then I defended my PhD and he dropped out, and we officially spun out in 2014 and hit the ground running.
AMLG: Were you surprised by all the interest coming from these big companies  —  the Lockheeds, the Boeings? Did you have to ward them off? Was it tempting to license out all the core tech, or did you feel a huge relief that you knew you’d hit on the right opportunity?
NB: Looking back it feels like a pretty clear sign of product market fit. I think it was Marc Andreessen or Ben Horowitz who said, “If the market really wants a technology it will pull it out of a company.” So even if the team is inexperienced and moving slowly and there are other challenges, if the market really wants something, that strong force can make it happen. We also still live under the fantastical notion that no one out there can necessarily manufacture these systems better than we can, because they’re non-traditional for aerospace. There aren’t established manufacturing plants or processes at a Lockheed that could make these technologies better than we can. So that was a neat position to be in.
AMLG: It seems crazy that they don’t have this capability. Is it just too niche for them to allocate resources? What’s the advantage of being a startup doing this?
NB: The technology itself is very different, and the manufacturing. We leverage MEMs fabrication techniques  —  the same manufacturing lines that are used to make Intel computer processors  —  we use those to make our thruster chips. A Lockheed, who wouldn’t traditionally be making computer processors, doesn’t have those capabilities set up.
AMLG: So you found this specific niche that they can’t tackle. For listeners that don’t know what a propulsion system on a satellite does, can you explain why it’s so important?
NB: The main application is for onboard propulsion systems, that’s what we’re working on. That’s different from launching from the surface of the Earth. We deal with when the satellite’s already in space. If you look at the progression of a mission, a satellite is launched into orbit on a big bulky rocket that’s not very precise, so first it will have to reposition itself to get where it actually intended to go.
Then over the lifetime of the mission, there are always small disturbances pulling the satellite off of its intended track. It has to correct for those, like gravity and atmospheric drag and other perturbations.
You also have to budget for collision avoidance. If NASA notifies you that you’re on track to collide with something, you’re responsible for moving out of the way. Then at the end of a lifetime of a satellite you’re also responsible for de-orbiting it. You can’t leave a satellite in orbit indefinitely  —  that’s called space junk and it’s a hot-button topic for us. So that’s one of the most typical missions, but as we start going beyond low-earth orbit, propulsion systems are also useful for transferring orbits, for reaching the moon and Mars and other interplanetary exploration missions.
More than 500,000 pieces of space debris orbit the Earth, traveling at speeds up to 17,500 mph, fast enough for a small piece of debris to damage a satellite or a spacecraft. Here is a time-lapse showing the accumulation since 1984 [Full video from European Space Agency].AMLG: Can you talk about the concrete applications for the first set of satellites that will be using your technology?
NB: Ultimately the two main applications are imaging or earth observation and communications. Those are the two main applications commercially that we’ll be addressing. Our initial batch of customers happen to be folks that can tolerate higher risk. We haven’t been launching propulsion systems into space for the past 10 years like some of the more established players would like for their suppliers. So our initial batch of customers are trying to do things like take a small satellite from low-earth orbit to lunar orbit, or trying to demonstrate other novel technology or mission components that haven’t been proven before. So we’re focusing on those higher-risk-tolerance customers right now.
AMLG: You mentioned interplanetary and Mars  —  a bunch of people in the industry are complaining that SpaceX’s focus on Mars colonization has pulled attention away from regular rocket launches and supporting the ecosystem of near-earth satellites, and those near-earth satellites are probably most of your customer base. What are your thoughts on that?
NB: Two thoughts on that. First, it’s analogous to Apollo in the sense that when you have an incredible, audacious goal that you set out to achieve, the spin-off technologies and other challenges you have to solve along the way are actually extremely beneficial in other areas, not just space. Looking at Apollo, you could even argue that some of the returns on that investment were computers in general, and everything else that came out of that program.
AMLG: What did we get specifically out of Apollo in terms of computer advances?
NB: The personal computer was just starting to be thought of around that time, and in a lot of the early Apollo missions everything was done by hand calculations, then later they started to input the punch hole cards into a computer on board. It was right at that transition point to computing, and a lot of money was being funneled into developing it for Apollo. So fans of Apollo say that computers came about because of that program. I think, in general, setting big hairy goals for an entire nation to achieve usually ends in a lot of cool spin-off technologies.
The other thing about Mars colonization is, if you think about humankind as a species, if we’re around 300-400 years from now, it’s probably not because we stayed put on Earth. For our long-term preservation, it’s worth starting to explore other planets in the solar system, and hopefully eventually beyond that.

AMLG: Where did this interest in exploring other planets come from. You grew up in Oregon right? What was that like and how did you get interested in space?
NB: Growing up in Oregon was great. It was very outdoorsy, I don’t really remember spending any time indoors. I would spend nights outside on my trampoline. In Oregon there’s not a lot of light pollution so I could look at the stars. I would think about aliens and then notice these very solid specks of light moving across the sky and I realized they weren’t airplanes. So I tried to figure out what they could be and realized I was watching the space station. Mostly I wanted to study aliens but my family is quite practical so I decided to combine that with math, which I loved, and ended up in aerospace engineering. I haven’t looked back since.
AMLG: Were you always interested in science? Were your parents interested in science?
NB: Yeah. My dad was a biologist. I was always gathering bugs and studying them and keeping them in tanks in my bedroom until my parents found them. In school I started excelling in math and found that it came easily to me. That combined with the science and alien bit led me to engineering.
AMLG: When you talk about aliens I think of one of my favorite books by Carl Sagan  —  Contact. I don’t know if you ever watched the movie or read the book, but I picture you like Ellie in that film. She’s this brilliant scientist and stumbles across something big.
NB: I’ve definitely seen it. I’m currently making my way through Carl Sagan’s original Cosmos again.
AMLG: I love the original Cosmos. I’m a huge Carl Sagan fan, I love his voice, he’s so inspiring to listen to. Talking about books, I know you’re an avid reader. Did any books in particular influence you or your path to building Accion?
NB: Well I’m a gigantic Harry Potter fan and a lot of things around Accion are named after various aspects of Harry Potter, including the name Accion itself.
AMLG: Is that the Accio spell? The beckoning spell?
NB: Yes exactly. My co-founder and I were g-chatting late one night on a weekend and looking through a glossary of Harry Potter spells trying to name the company. Accio, the summoning spell, if you add an “N” to the end of it, it becomes a concatenation between “accelerate” and “ion,” which is what we do. That’s the official story of how we named the company, but really it was from the glossary of spells.

A quote from Carl Sagan’s 1980s TV Series, “Cosmos”
[To continue reading, a full transcript of the conversation can be found on Medium.]

Featured Image: John Devolle/Getty Images
There are rules that every seasoned concert-goer knows: Drink lots of water. If you see someone who looks like they’re about to faint after a day of being blasted by the sun, help them. Don’t be a jerk.
Seems it’s time to add another to the list: watch your phone!
Concerts and music festivals are like heaven for pick pockets. Cram a few thousand people elbow-to-elbow for hours on end, and no one really notices when someone “accidentally” bumps into them. And if you catch’em in the act? They’ve dissolved into a crowd of strangers by the time you’ve realized what’s going on.
Take this guy at Coachella who just got busted with over 100 phones in his backpack, for example. The magic of Find my Phone!
“But why?!” you might ask. “Can’t most phones be rendered useless/worthless minutes after they’ve been stolen now?”
Sure — the phone, as a whole, can be locked down and made useless. The parts inside it (the screens, the glass-backed and oft-replaced cases, basically most bits but the logic boards), though, are still valuable when pieced out. And if the thief is going the identity-theft route, the one-off phone without a PIN is a treasure trove.
If you’re going to shows on the regular, it might seem obvious — hell, you’ve probably heard some horror stories first hand (I know two people who’ve had phones snagged at shows this year alone.) But with concert/music festival season being upon us, there’s plenty of music lovers hitting up their one show a year — so tell your friends.

Featured Image: Prefeitura de Itapevi/Flickr UNDER A CC BY 2.0 LICENSE
PicoBrew has been around for a while, making beer brewing easy, even for people who don’t know the difference between hops and hops. The company’s current Kickstarter campaign is for the Pico C, a small home brewing appliance to make brewing even easier, using a Nespresso-style cartridge approach to making your own home brews. Today, the company announced a surprise upgrade option to its campaign — a whole new appliance. The PicoStill is a small still to make hard liquor from the beer you made with the Pico C. I’m not sure these types of surprises are a great idea.
On the topic of moonshine, I should point out that the company (wisely) doesn’t suggest you go and brew your own gin right off the bat. “PicoStill can be used to distill hop oil, water, and essential oils. Licensed and properly permitted craft distillers can also use the PicoStill to produce a wide range of alcohols, including vodka, whiskey, bourbon, moonshine, gin, brandies, schnapps and more.” Can you hear the “wink, wink, nudge, nudge” in that sentence, right around where it says “licensed and properly permitted craft distillers”? Yeah, me too.

Related Articles
PicoBrew's Zymatic Beer Making Machine Made A Brewer Out Of A Noob Like Me
PicoBrew Automates Home Beer Brewing (And It's A Great Excuse For CES Day Drinking)
Meet Alchemist's class XIV startups making everything from smart beer taps to a safer internet
Hopsy debuts a countertop beer tap designed by the makers of Nespresso
Whirlpool crowdfunds a beer maker
Local SF Brewery Creates A Platform To Help The Tech Crowd Choose The Right Beer
Anyway. As exciting as it is to spring a whole additional piece of kit on your backers, I’m not going to lie: I really hope that this isn’t the start of a trend. Hardware startups are hard (I should know…), and scaling hardware manufacturing is an art in itself. We’ve seen many of the most popular hardware crowdfunding campaigns crumble under their own weight (ahem, we’re looking at you, Coolest Cooler), not least because they added layers and layers of complexity to a product as so-called “stretch goals.” Adding a whole new piece of equipment to the mix is brave, to put it mildly.
Don’t get me wrong; PicoBrew is an excellent company, and they’ve successfully delivered on promises in the past. There’s nothing that makes me think that it won’t deliver this time, too. I further admit that a $479 brewing machine/still early-bird kit is causing my finger to hover over the “pledge now” button. The thought of having a home brewery and still in my own home is so unbearably cool that I barely know what to do myself. Of course, that’s exactly what marketing is meant to do (It worked! Congratulations.)
Having said that: Surprising backers with major changes halfway through a campaign makes it much harder to do due diligence. Whenever you back a campaign on any crowdfunding campaign, you should ask yourself, “Do the promises a company is making about a product make sense? Do I have faith in their ability to deliver?” The answer to that question could change significantly if the campaign changes the goalposts halfway through, and makes it much harder to be a diligent crowdfunding backer.

PicoStill is available now to Kickstarter backers for $170, or packaged with the Pico Model C for $479. It will retail for $349 when it hits stores later this fall.
CBS has quietly expanded the scope of its streaming and on-demand TV service, its own competitor of sorts to Hulu, to now include movies. The lineup at launch is fairly small with just 18 films becoming available, on top of its existing library of 8,500 on-demand episodes of current shows, prior seasons and classic shows from the network’s archive, as well as its CBS All Access original programming.
The movie selection includes a selection of “Star Trek” films, plus other titles like “Up in the Air,” “Election,” and some older movies, like “Funny Face” and “Rosemary’s Baby.” The titles were licensed from Paramount, the company tells us.
However, CBS says that it plans to add more movies over time, as the service grows.
The company’s streaming strategy so far has been to hold out on selling its content to larger, more popular services like Netflix and Hulu, to instead offer its programming on its own subscription product it calls CBS All Access.

The trouble with that strategy is that CBS only has a handful of top shows – like “The Good Wife” or “Big Bang Theory,” for example – when compared with how many quality shows are available on a rival service, like Netflix. And CBS won no Emmys last year for its programming – just a few “Creative Arts” awards – while Netflix and HBO cleaned up.
Asking cord cutters to pay for yet another subscription just to watch a couple of good shows is a steep request, especially when there are other ways to buy those TV seasons as a one-off – like through Amazon or iTunes.
Plus, several seasons of “The Good Wife” are included with an Amazon Prime membership, which makes CBS’s own subscription service less compelling.

But CBS has been expanding its focus beyond just what it’s airing on TV to round out its service for cord cutters. It recently wrapped its first scripted original series, “The Good Fight” – a spinoff of “The Good Wife,” which was met with praise from critics. And of course, CBS All Access will be the exclusive home in the U.S. to the upcoming new “Star Trek” series, arriving this fall, that should attract a good-sized audience of “Star Trek” super fans.
The hope is that the millions of existing fans will be willing to pay for CBS All Access primarily to be able to watch this one show. And once there, CBS is thinking about how to engage them in its service more broadly, as well as how to keep them around when the show is in between seasons or when it wraps.
In a recent interview, CBS said there are 20 million U.S. households without a cable TV subscription – the market it believes it can convince to try its streaming product.
However, for that service to be worthwhile, it needs to have a mix of content – meaning, more than just TV.
“We’ve begun to expand CBS All Access’s content offering to include a selection of film titles relevant to our audience, such as a number of films from the Star Trek franchise,” explains Marc DeBevoise, President and COO of CBS Interactive. “Our goal for CBS All Access is to provide and continually build a well-rounded service for our subscribers.”
In addition to TV shows, CBS All Access Originals, and now movies, CBS’s bet on live streaming TV means its viewers can also watch live events, including sports, through the CBS All Access service. Live TV is an area where many of the newer live TV services are now competing for viewers, including Sling TV, DirecTV Now, PlayStation Vue, YouTube TV and soon, Hulu live TV.
The movie lineup at present is fairly unremarkable compared with the vast selections on Netflix and Amazon, but it signals CBS’s intent to be more than just a port of CBS television content to an over-the-top offering.
CBS didn’t officially announce the addition of films, but the blog Cord Cutter News spotted them in the app. CBS confirms that they are indeed new, and hit the service on Thursday.
The company would not say how often it plans to add more movies, but its focus at launch is bringing the films to those who are watching on their iPhones and TVs. Initially, the movies will be available on iOS and Windows mobile devices and tablets, plus Roku, Xbox, PS4, Android TV, Amazon Fire TV and Chromecast. In the coming weeks, they will also arrive on Android (mobile) and Apple TV.
Cloudera, the enterprise big data company that’s received significant backing from Intel, has released the expected price range for its IPO. The company says it plans to price its shares between $12 and $14. The price will get finalized the night before Cloudera debuts on the stock market, which is expected to happen later this month.
The proposed price is a significant disappointment for some of the investors and employees of the company because it will mean it has gone down in value since its last private round. If it prices at the top of the range, Cloudera will be valued at $1.8 billion, significantly less than the $4.1 billion valuation from its 2014 round. This scenario has become known as a “down round IPO.”
The company has raised at least $1 billion, dating back to 2008. Intel is the largest shareholder, owning 22 percent of the company, prior to the IPO. Accel owns 16.3 percent and Greylock Partners owns 12.5 percent.
The company’s filing, which was unveiled last month, gave us a glimpse at their financials. Revenue is growing, totaling $261 million for the fiscal year ending in January. Cloudera brought in $166 million for the same period last year.
Losses were $186.32 million, down from $203 million in the same timeframe the year before. The risk factors section of the filing says they “expect to continue to incur net losses for the foreseeable future.”

Related Articles
Cloudera's IPO will test unicorn valuations
Cloudera finally ready for the public stage
Cloudera posts long-awaited IPO filing

Competition could be one of the biggest obstacles for Cloudera. HP, IBM, Oracle, Amazon Web Services and Hortonworks are amongst the competitors listed in the S-1 documents.
Intel and Cloudera have been working on partnerships that aim to improve the speed and also the security for data processing. According to the filing, “Intel and Cloudera collaborated on optimized data encryption speed through use of arithmetic acceleration built into the Intel Architecture. Intel and Cloudera also collaborated to develop Spot (incubating project), an open source cybersecurity analytics platform built on open data models that provides advanced threat detection using big data analytics and machine learning.”
Morgan Stanley, JP Morgan and Allen & Co are the underwriting banks on the offering. The company intends to list on the New York Stock Exchange, under the ticker “CLDR.”

Last month, Snap kicked off 2017 tech IPOs after a slow last year. Since then we’ve seen MuleSoft, Alteryx, Yext, Okta and Netshoes debut.

Featured Image: © Philippe LEJEANVRE/Getty Images
Elite Daily, the online publisher that (still) describes itself as “The Voice of Generation Y,” has been acquired by Bustle.
The news was first reported by Business Insider.
The Daily Mail previously acquired Elite Daily as a way for the British news publisher to connect with a millennial audience. At the end of 2016, however, The Daily Mail wrote down a $31 million loss on the purchase, saying that “audience retention and revenue growth have been disappointing and losses have exceeded expectations.”
Jon Steinberg, who oversaw the acquisition at The Daily Mail, is now running video news startup Cheddar, while Elite Daily’s founders have also departed.

Related Articles
Bustle Revamps Its iOS App With A Personalized News Feed
Bustle Lands $15.5 Million From General Catalyst
Daily Mail Acquires Millennial-Focused Website Elite Daily
 None of this makes Elite Daily sound like a publisher on the upswing, but in a press release, Bustle CEO Bryan Goldberg (pictured above) said, “We see a tremendous opportunity to build off of Elite Daily’s strong capabilities in video, social, and native advertising.”
Goldberg, who was also one of the founders of Bleacher Report, launched woman-focused Bustle in 2013, followed by Romper, a site for millennial moms, in 2015. He said that with Elite Daily’s readers (“most of whom are young women”), the company now known as Bustle Digital Group “further extends our demographic leadership.”
The financial terms of the deal were not disclosed, but Bustle Digital Group says Elite Daily will maintain its independent editorial operations in New York. The company also says it will now reach nearly 80 million unique monthly visitors across Bustle, Romper and Elite Daily.
Back in February, YouTube gave people the ability to live stream directly to their channel from their phones… with one catch: it was only open to folks with 10,000 subscribers or more.
If you’ve been dying to hop on the live streaming train but haven’t hit that 10k mark yet, good news: they’ve dropped the requirement to 1,000 subscribers as opposed to 10,000. It’s still not open to everyone, but that’s a considerably smaller hurdle.
The change quietly happened sometime in the past few days, but got swept up amongst the April Fools’ noise that comes with changing anything near the beginning of this month. A  support page confirms the change, and a rep from YouTube confirmed that it should be open to everyone with 1,000 subscribers or more — not a random pool.
So why not just open it to everyone, regardless of subscriber count? A few possible reasons:

Boring content is the bane of live streams, and a lot of people just aren’t consistently enthralling enough to watch live/sans editing. Having some relatively high number of subscribers suggests that the creator at least has some idea what people want to see.
Stress testing. Live streams introduce new technical challenges, and limiting the number of people who can participate lets YouTube work out the kinks without disappointing everyone.
People are presumably less likely to stream illegal content when they’ve got an established channel to lose
The last few years have seen the FCC move to the foreground of the tech world with some far-reaching decisions that were aimed at protecting the open internet — but also made the agency some powerful enemies. Commissioner Mignon Clyburn is still holding the net neutrality torch, and she’ll be joining us at Disrupt NY to talk about it.

Related Articles
FCC nixes proposal that would've allowed cellphone calls on planes
Trump signs resolution nullifying privacy requirements for internet providers
Everything you need to know about Congress' decision to expose your data to internet providers
Clyburn, originally from South Carolina, was appointed to the FCC in 2013 by President Obama. Since then she has made it her business to “put #consumersfirst,” as she often puts it. Under former Chairman Tom Wheeler’s leadership, that meant putting strong rules in place around net neutrality and privacy — rules now being openly targeted by the agency’s new leadership.
But while that has led to some conflict, Clyburn has other issues on her plate that aren’t as subject to partisan interference: overseeing new broadband deployments, promoting transparency and diverse leadership in TV stations and other organizations, and ensuring the economically disadvantaged and disabled aren’t excluded from the modern internet-based economy.
She has also led efforts for years to expose and change the trend of private prisons restricting communication and charging inmates and their families exorbitant fees for simple video or audio calls.
Commissioner Clyburn joins a list of all-star speakers at TC Disrupt NY, which goes down May 15 to May 17. You can pick up your tickets here at the Early Bird price until this Friday, 4/21.
Sponsors make TechCrunch events possible. If you are interested in learning more about sponsorships with TechCrunch, shoot an email to sponsors@techcrunch.com.
Google announced this afternoon it’s adding new features to both Google Search and Google Play Newsstand that will help people keep up with their favorite teams and their standings during the NBA and the NHL playoffs. In Search, you’ll now find Knowledge Panels with information directly from the teams, like highlights, photos or GIFs, for NHL, NBA as well as MLB teams. Meanwhile, Newsstand will also offer top headlines, scores, analysis and videos.
The Search feature is taking advantage of Google’s recently expanded “Posts on Google” product, which allows organizations to share status updates and other information directly on Google’s Search result pages, where they appear as widgets placed among the blue links. Effectively, it turns Google itself into a variation on Twitter – but one where only approved organizations can share their news.
The feature was originally developed for the 2016 U.S. presidential campaign, allowing candidates to post updates to Google Search results pages. Last month, Google said it would open up this program more broadly, to organizations like museums, sports teams, sports leagues and movie studios, for example.

The addition of the sports updates is one of the first high-profile launches for Posts on Google, following the March announcement.
You can trigger these search results by entering in specific queries, like “Stanley Cup Playoffs” or a team’s name.
Google tells us these posts can be anything, from photos to GIFs or even call-outs to fans.
NHL and NBA updates are available in both Search and Newsstand, but MLB was only mentioned as being integrated into Search.

The real-time updates will also make their way to Google Play Newsstand’s app, which is available online at newsstand.google.com, or as a standalone mobile app on iOS or Android. The app will feature special NBA and Stanley Cup Playoffs sections, with the latest news, scores, analysis, and videos, in addition to the real-time posts (which are linked to Google Search).
These features are rolling out now globally in English, but the team information will appear for those in the U.S. and Canada.
Here at TechCrunch, we tend to pay close attention to the earnings reports of the big companies. And for good reason! It gives us some insight into major technology trends and some signals that can help us not only predict what products are going to be around in a few years (not mentioning any names), but also directionally what kinds of startups might be successful.
But!
Sometimes these reports can be dull. And sometimes these reports can be quite boring and fall directly in-line with what Wall Street and everyone else expects. We have a couple new entries this quarter like Snap, but since we’re here, we might as well have a little bit of fun. So we’re going to set out some of the odds of some of the fun, stupid and interesting things that might happen this earnings season.
NOTE: WE ARE NOT GOING TO PAY OUT THESE BETS. WE DON’T HAVE THE MONEY OR RESOURCES. OUR PARENT COMPANY JUST BOUGHT YAHOO FOR SOME REASON.
Twitter
Anything bad happens because it’s 4 A.M.: 3/2
Jack Dorsey says he’s still running both companies: 3/1
Twitter’s ad business shrinks: 2/1
Twitter talks about its great new executive team: 5/1
More Twitter layoffs: 50/1
Jack Dorsey accidentally calls Twitter “Square” and has to apologize: 25/1
Square shares go up after Twitter falls for some reason: 3/2



Apple
Apple grows revenue and/or iPhone sales: 5/1
Over/under on “Customer Sat” mentions on the earnings call: 3
Apple breaks out Apple Watch numbers: 100/1
Apple services revenue breaks $9 billion: 10/1
Self-driving car mention: 15/1
Tim Cook says services revenue will be “size of a fortune 100 company” in 2016: 3/1
Someone mentions augmented reality: 15/1
Apple stock rises more than 3%: 7/1
Over/under on number of Qualcomm lawsuit mentions (analyst or otherwise): 3
An Apple executive actually names Qualcomm on the call: 7/1
Greater China revenue shrinks: 4/1
Someone says something about the Apple car: 15/1
Apple TV is called a “hobby”: 25/1

Alphabet

Line on Other Bets loss: $900M
Larry Page shows up to earnings call: 40/1
The Waymo lawsuit is mentioned in some fashion: 20/1
Someone actually mentions Uber by name: 50/1
Alphabet breaks out cloud revenue: 25/1
Alphabet cost-per-click grows: 50/1
Alphabet declares a regular dividend: 3/2
Alphabet shares go up more than 3%: 6/1
Someone mentions currency fluctuations: 7/1

Yahoo
Yahoo discloses another hack: 25/1
Facebook
Mark Zuckerberg says something about his USA tour: 3/2
Instagram is fully broken out: 100/1
Analysts ask about fake news: 5/1
User growth stalls completely: 50/1
A Facebook executive actually addresses fake news: 15/1
The number of stories posted to Instagram is mentioned: 3/2
Someone says anything about GIFs: 10/1
Facebook stock goes up by 3%: 8/1

Snap
Snap somehow discloses some number that’s beating Instagram: 50/1
A Snap executive actually mentions Instagram by name: 75/1
A Snap executive actually answers the inevitable question regarding Instagram Stories DAUs with some clarity: 45/1
Snap actually beats expectations enough to warrant its current revenue multiple: 25/1
Snap announces some new corporate governance method to share control with public investors: haha yeah right
Snap stock goes up by 3%: 4/1
Snap breaks out Spectacles revenue: 10/1
Microsoft
Microsoft discloses last quarter’s Windows Phone sales: 100/1
Microsoft breaks out Surface Studio sales numbers: 75/1
Microsoft breaks out Azure-specific run rate: 25/1
Google Cloud or AWS is actually mentioned: 30/1
Satya Nadella quotes some poetry: 35/1
Microsoft shares go up 3% or more: 9/1

IBM
Some ominous mention or signal of additional future layoffs: 5/1
Netflix
Netflix somehow beats expectations for domestic subscriber growth: 7/1
Netflix original series The 3% is mentioned: 8/1 (great show by the way)
Over/under on 2017’s content spend if mentioned: $6.5 billion
Iron Fist is mentioned by an executive or analyst: 5/1

Amazon
Amazon actually breaks out Kindle sales numbers in absolute terms: 15/1
Amazon makes money by some accident: 5/1
AWS hits a $12B annual run rate: 8/1
Amazon shares go up at least 3%: 3/1
Media is mentioned for some reason: 4/1
An Amazon executive mentions the number of Alexa skills: 3/2
Over/under on number of Alexa skills if mentioned: 7,000
Box
Box returns to negative free cash flow: 5/1
Over/under on mentions of “cohort analysis” during earnings call: 2
Box stock goes up 3% or more: 6/1
Verizon
Verizon apologizes for calling it “Oath”: 100/1
TechCrunch shoutout: 200/1 (come on Tim!)

Paypal

PayPal’s stock goes up 3% or more for some reason: 4/1
PayPal actually has some breakout of Venmo: 5/1 (💪💪💪)
Qualcomm
Apple is actually mentioned by name with regards to the pending lawsuit: 15/1
Over/under on number of mentions or questions regarding the Apple lawsuit: 5
Fitbit
Fitbit’s market cap falls below GoPro after its report: 3/2
Over/under on gratuitous vanity metrics mentioned: 7
Tesla
Tesla is GAAP profitable: 7/1
Tesla actually beats expectations for car shipments: 5/1
Tesla says it will raise more money with a stock sale: 25/1
Discussion concerning the raising of new external capital: 5/1
Over/under for the number of analyst questions regarding SolarCity: 4

Pandora
Someone says Pandora is “exploring strategic options”: 5/1
Cisco
Something interesting enough that’s worth mentioning happens: 50/1
GoPro
GoPro’s stock hits another all-time low: 7/1
Something dumb happens: 3/1
Square
Another minor beat: 3/1
Be sure to check out TechCrunch in the coming weeks for its coverage of earnings for major tech companies.
Alex Wilhelm, editor-in-chief of Crunchbase News, contributed to this post.

Featured Image: Drew Angerer/Getty Images
SpaceX is hosting its second Hyperloop Pod Competition this August, during the weekend spanning the 25th through the 27th. Participants will include those who successfully tested their pods during the first competition in January, as well as some who weren’t able to compete during that trial either due to time constraints or designs that didn’t quite meet SpaceX’s requirements.
The competitors are not directly affiliated with SpaceX – they include 27 teams selected from a larger group, mostly made up of research teams from some of the best colleges and universities from the U.S. and around the world. The first time around, the competitors were focused on a variety of criteria, but this time, there’s just one metric that matters: max speed.
That’s the kind of heart-pounding thrill ride we’re looking for out of Hyperloop – on top of safety of course. Safety first. And then second, F9: Fast and Furious and Hyperloop, the next instalment in the blockbuster film franchise. The family faces its biggest challenge yet in a low atmosphere contained tube environment.
Advertisement		





Long before the iPhone or even the Mac, Apple was a handful of people working in an industry that was only just beginning to take the idea of personal computing seriously. In the earliest days of those early days, Steves Wozniak and Jobs made their first device together: the Apple I. Few of these were sold, and fewer still survive — but the Living Computers museum in Seattle managed to get three. And one of them was Jobs’ personal machine.
Paul Allen, the museum’s founder and patron, has caused to be assembled quite an impressive collection of devices from Apple’s history, many of which have been restored to working condition. The public will be able to tinker with a NeXT Cube as well as early Macs, but the pride and joy of the collection must be the Apple Is.
The new exhibit, which highlights the collaboration and competition between Apple and Microsoft over the years as the companies grew, is open today.




The Apple I, you may or may not remember, wasn’t much of a hit. Only 200 were made — by hand — and it wasn’t long before the company put its hopes in the Apple II, which would go on to be more popular by far. One of the Is, however, Jobs kept in his office as a demo machine for industry people.
When Jobs left in 1985 he left in a hurry, and this I was left behind on a shelf. Don Hutmacher, one of the company’s first employees, grabbed it and it stayed in his possession until he passed away last year. His wife generously allowed the museum to take care of it, and you can imagine their gratitude..text .crunchreport h3 {color:#fff}

		Latest Crunch Report 







Element Raises $102 Million | Crunch Report





Watch More Episodes



The team had their suspicious, but a tag inside the metal chassis — and the fact that it had a chassis at all, since Apple Is came just as boards — suggested it was more than a rare Apple I; it was the rarest. It’s signed “BF,” which would have been employee number one, Bill Fernandez. This was definitely, the team decided, Jobs’ custom machine.
Because the Apple I didn’t have a ROM, and Jobs didn’t want to have to program it from scratch any time someone wanted to see it in action, he had a custom EPROM attached to it that initialized the computer with BASIC when it started up. Its RAM, the engineering team suspects, was also augmented so it didn’t run out and crash during the demo.


The team at the museum read the contents of this EPROM and used it to set up a second, less historic Apple I. That one, which has had its power components modified to be a little less prone to catching fire or warping the circuit board, will now be available in this primed state for anyone to play with. Yes, anyone — the only operational Apple I on the planet right now, and your kid can type “butts” on it with fingers still greasy from the sandwich they got across the street.

Crunchbase






				Steve Jobs			


 
Bio
Steve Jobs was the co-founder and CEO of [Apple](http://www.crunchbase.com/company/apple) and formerly [Pixar](/company/pixar).

Steve Jobs was born in San Francisco, California to Joanne Simpson and a Syrian father. Paul and Clara Jobs of Mountain View, California then adopted him. In 1972, Jobs graduated from Homestead High School in Cupertino, California and enrolled in Reed College in Portland, …


Full profile for Steve Jobs 









That’s the mission of the museum, though: the Apple I, along with dozens of other ancient computers, from Altairs to mainframes from the 60’s, are deliberately there to be touched and, if not truly understood (few kids know BASIC these days), at least experienced.
Ahead of the exhibit’s opening, a small reunion was held for a handful of people who had a hand in the early days of Apple, Microsoft, and the home computer industry. Steve Wozniak and Paul Allen met — for the first time, amazingly — and chatted over an Apple II. And it wasn’t until someone took stock of the situation that they realized that the entire original team that built the Apple I in Steve Jobs’ garage — minus the departed Steve — were together again for the first time in decades:



Apple 1 Team Retouched




Paul Allen and Woz




Apple Group with Labels V3




 View Slideshow


Previous
Next
Exit


The museum has also been working with the University of Washington to compile an oral history of this era of computing, and many of the people who figured in the creation of the Apple I.
Now that the exhibit is open, feel free to drop by the museum and touch a few pieces of computing history — though you may need to brush up on your BASIC.


The New York City Taxi and Limousine Commission (TLC) will move forward with a proposal to require any car services that accept payment exclusively via credit card to offer a tipping option via the same means, the New York Times reported Monday. The proposal seems designed mostly to force Uber’s hand, requiring the ride hailing service to offer an in-app tipping option, something it’s been reluctant to introduce thus far.
The TLC’s announced proposal will be just an initial step towards implementing the rule, and would still require formal introduction sometime within the next few months, and then a public hearing soliciting feedback from members of the community, and then a vote to decide whether to implement or reject the proposal.
The new proposed new rule comes after the Independent Drivers Guild (IDG), a group that represents Uber drivers in the city, put forward a petition and received over 11,000 signatures supporting the implementation of an in-app tipping option. Under the proposed rules, anyone exclusively accepting cash would be able to continue accepting cash tips and not required to offer a card-based tipping method.
IDG founder Jim Conigliaro, Jr. provided the following statement regarding the TLC’s proposal:

Today’s decision is a vitally important step forward for drivers. In-app tipping will mean a raise of hundreds of millions of dollars for New York City drivers each year. Drivers have long been denied access to the kinds of benefits and labor protections many workers take for granted, such as paid sick leave or the minimum wage. As a result, New York City’s professional drivers have traditionally depended on gratuities for a substantial portion of their income. Cuts to driver pay across the ride-hail industry has made tipping income more important than ever,

Uber, when contacted, offering this comment via a spokesperson regarding the potential new rule:
We have not seen the proposal and look forward to reviewing it. Uber is always striving to offer the best earning opportunity for drivers and we are constantly working to improve the driver experience. That’s why, in New York City, we partnered with the Machinists Union to make sure current and future Uber NYC drivers have a stronger voice and launched a series of new tools and support policies for drivers.

Featured Image: Getty Images
Advertisement		





One iPhone case is much like the other unless it’s made of figured walnut wood from a retired woodworker in California and feels like the surface of a finely-sanded and well-made piece of antique cabinetry. That’s why  Kerf Cases, a Pittsburgh-based manufacturer, is so cool.
The founder, Ben Saks, has been working in wood for most of his life. While working at Carnegie Mellon University he created his first case using a manual milling machine and then, over the next six months, he perfected his design. He became an artist residency at Alpha Lab Gear in 2014 and then joined Techship Pittsburgh where he honed his product. Finally he opened a facility in Pittsburgh’s East End.



Saks makes cases for iPhones and the Pixel. They start at $99 and are available in multiple woods including mahogany, cherry, and maple. All of the pieces come from salvaged trees and Saks makes wallets and iPad accessories as well.
“‘Kerf’ is the thickness of material removed from a saw blade, usually measured in 1/1000 of an inch. This standard wood working term is important to KerfCase’s philosophy, as it represents the precision needed to make our wood iPhone cases,” said Saks. “Every piece of wood has a story, whether it’s a piece of reclaimed flooring, or a beautiful burled wood from a local tree which was damaged in a storm. Our woodworking is a continuation of this story, connecting you to the history of the material.”

“Kerf is not a startup, and it took us a long time to realize this. Our value proposition is not something that is scalable like software. By scaling, we would lose the most important aspects of our business. We have grown slowly and organically, through word-of-mouth and a small, dedicated fanbase,” he said.
The case I tested, a deep and dark walnut model, is smooth and cool to the touch and actually amplifies the speaker thanks to the way the wood surrounds the entire phone. It’s quite light and feels far nicer than the original rubber case. It’s no richly inlaid wooden case hand-made by a blind woodcutter but, I suspect, it’s the next best thing.


As part of the NewTech Meetup we will be holding a very cool pitch-off at the Oskar Blues The Oak Room at 1800 Pike Road in Longmont, CO. It’s on Wednesday, April 19, 2017 starting at 6:00pm. The pitch-off will happen at about 7:30pm. You can RSVP here.
To apply to pitch please submit your info here. I will pick and contact eight companies to pitch for 2 minutes with 2 minutes of questions. If you do not get an email you are not pitching.
The winner of the pitch-off gets a table at Disrupt New York and the second place company gets two tickets to Disrupt New York.
See you soon!
Tesla dropped the price on their entry-level Model S, with a $5,000 discount to the 75kWh version, which now starts at $69,500. The price drop comes as Tesla stops selling the 60kWh model, which it discontinued recently and sold only until remaining stock ran out.
The price drop also comes with upgraded standard equipment, meaning you’ll get a better value overall. These include the all-glass overhead roof, and an automatic powered rear lift gate as standard features across all Model S battery options. Electrek reports that in addition to those changes, some other tweaks mean you can only get certain options on higher-priced models now, which it looks like are designed to help make sure the company continues to see a healthy mix of buyers at all points in its pricing matrix.
The Model S still isn’t “cheap” by any stretch of the imagination, but the pricing and option changes do mean your money goes farther at the entry-level for the vehicle lineup. The lesson is this: Patience is rewarded for would-be Tesla buyers – but of course, you need to take the plunge at some point if you want the car, so waiting forever isn’t an option.
Tesla also reached out to tell us it’ll increase prices slightly at the top end of the range, so that the average selling price of vehicles actually ends up being very similar to before. Here’s the full list of changes, including the increases coming April 24:
Model S

75: $69,500
75D: $74,500
90D: $87,500
100D: $97,500 (beginning 4/24)
P100DL: $140,000 (beginning 4/24)

Model X

75D: $82,500
90D: $93,500
100D: $99,500 (beginning 4/24)
P100DL: $145,000 (beginning 4/24)

Tesla also provided this official statement from a spokesperson:

Periodically we have adjusted pricing and available options to best reflect the value of our products and our customers’ preferences. Today’s updates include slight price decreases to our 75, 75D and 90D models to account for the discontinuation of our 60 kWh models, and next week will be implementing slight price increases to our higher end 100D and P100D models. We expect our total average selling price to remain almost exactly the same. 
 
Price increases for our 100D and P100D models will take effect on April 24, 2017 to best accommodate customers already in the order process, while price decreases for 75, 75D and 90D models will take effect today.
Ahead of Facebook’s annual developers conference, F8, Facebook shared the demographic makeup of this year’s expected attendees exclusively with TechCrunch.
Of the people who chose to disclose, 28.7% self-identified as women (a 4.9% increase from last year) and 19.3% self-identified as underrepresented ethnicities in tech (black, Latinx, Native American, Alaska Native, Native Hawaiian or Pacific Islander), representing a 5.6% increase from last year.
For the second year in a row, Facebook has also donated $250,000 worth of F8 proceeds to fund a scholarship program for underrepresented people in tech. This year, Facebook has donated some of the proceeds from F8 to Hack Reactor’s Telegraph Track for underrepresented engineers.
“The F8 donation will fuel the expansion of Telegraph track as we plan to award full-tuition scholarships to 14 underrepresented engineers looking to join our Telegraph Track community,” Hack Reactor ‎Director of Diversity and Inclusion Albrey Brown told TechCrunch in an email.
Last year, Facebook donated the money to Dev Bootcamp to fund scholarships for 20 people of color and/or women to participate in the 19-week program.
“F8, in and of itself, is a cross-section not just of Facebook, but of the industry as a whole,” Facebook Diversity Business Partner Kiva Wilson told TechCrunch.
Wilson went on to say that the upward trend in diverse representation at F8 is one Facebook works hard for, and “frankly, is exciting and provides a bit more encouragement.”

Related Articles
Facebook Global Head of Diversity Maxine Williams is speaking at TC Sessions: Justice
Facebook and Oculus commit $250M+ for VR content, diversity, education
Facebook's F8 plans include Camera Effects Platform, offline Instagram

Facebook first started collecting the demographic makeup of its F8 attendees in 2015. That’s because tech conferences, including this publication’s beloved Disrupt, are notoriously dominated by male attendees.
Compared to Facebook’s employee demographics, its conference for developers is more racially diverse but not more diverse when it comes to gender. Underrepresented racial minorities make up just 10% of Facebook’s employee base in the U.S., while they make up 19.3% of attendees at F8. Facebook is 33% female, while F8 attendees are just 28.7% female.
Regarding speakers at F8, Wilson wouldn’t disclose the demographics or names, but said attendees will be able to notice an improvement this year compared to last year.
“I am a full proponent and believer in the concept that you can’t be what you can’t see,” Wilson said.

Featured Image: Eric Risberg/AP
Instagram will make its bookmarking feature more useful, the company announced this morning, with the introduction of “collections.” The new feature will allow users to organize the posts they save into private groupings for easier access. The addition may further challenge Pinterest, which also favors image bookmarking and the ability to save items to particular boards.
When Instagram first introduced its bookmarking tool in December, it was capitalizing on an already common behavior across its app – people were often saving photos others had posted. Instagram users would regularly come across posts they want to look back on later – whether a funny video or a great quote, an outfit they like and want to shop, vacation inspiration, a product they want to try, and more.
With bookmarking, you can privately save these posts to your profile so you can quickly get back to them later, instead of downloading the photos to your phone’s Camera Roll where they can get lost.
Since Instagram introduced the bookmarking feature a few months ago, nearly half (46%) of users have saved at least one post, the company says.
With collections, the company now aims to make the feature more powerful.

To use collections, you’ll tap and hold on the bookmark icon underneath any post to save it directly to a collection, Instagram explains. You can either create and name a new collection at this time or you can save the post to one you’ve already created.
If you’ve already been saving posts, you can now go back and create a collection with those saves. To do so, you’ll tap in the “plus” icon in the top right corner of the screen, name the new collection, and then select the saved posts you’d like to add – similar to organizing photos into an album on your phone.
Once your collections have been created, you can get to them at any time from your profile. And like saved posts, collections are private – only you can see them.

The private nature of collections is the most significant difference between Instagram’s approach bookmarking compared with Pinterest. Your saves on Instagram are meant only for you, while Pinterest encourages its users to create and share images and their organized boards with others as a means of seeding its social network with more content.
That said, Instagram’s bookmarking feature still has a lot of overlap with Pinterest, as Instagram, too, is often a place people turn to for style tips, recipes, travel ideas, craft projects, inspirational quotes and other areas where Pinterest had made a name for itself.
The move comes shortly after another attack on Pinterest last week – but from Google, not Facebook. Google introduced its own fashion “style ideas” right in Image Search, along with an expanded selection of similar items when searching for apparel and accessories.
Instagram says collections are available on iOS and Android as part of the Instagram version 10.16 update in the Apple App Store and Google Play.
Luke Woods is the Head of Design at Facebook. In this episode, we discuss how digital design is in a unique position to make an impact on the world, dive into the details of what the evolution of design looked like at Facebook, and learn the importance of three little words: understand, identify, execute. 
Facebook has grown immensely throughout the five-and-a-half years Woods has worked there. Throughout our interview, he gives us an inside look at how the design team grew from a few dozen to a few hundred, explaining the trials the team faced as it scaled and the tools they used to overcome their problems.
On how to approach designing a new product or feature, Woods says there are three steps: understand, identify, and execute. Take the time to understand what it is you’re trying to accomplish with the product. Use that understanding to identify the biggest problems you need to solve. And execute on the idea by focusing on getting it done and making it real.
Jared Erondu and Bobby Ghoshal are the hosts of High Resolution. This post and episode notes were put together by freelance writer, Gannon Burgett. Watch for High Resolution episodes to drop every Monday on TechCrunch at 8 a.m. PT. You can also listen on iTunes and Overcast.
Back in 2012 Wercker, a Dutch startup which helps developers test and deploy code at a rapid pace, appeared. It fitted into the space of emerging new platforms that help developers build apps such as CloudBees, CircleCi and newcomers like CloudMunch. After raising a seed round it raised a $4.5 million Series A funding round last year.
It’s today been acquired by Oracle for an undisclosed sum, which was clearly attracted by its container-centric and cloud-native automation platform, among others things.
Oracle and Wrecker are in alignment in that Oracle is building out its IaaS and PaaS foundation for its cloud computing platform.
Wercker’s Series A round was led by Inkef Capital, with participation from existing investor Notion Capital. It had raised $7.5 million to date.
MIT’s Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence Laboratory (CSAIL) has come up with a way to fill those few seconds of waiting everyone experiences while their social media apps load, or their phone connects to WiFi. It may not seem like much, but filling these gaps can can a significant aggregate effect, given how much time we spend on our devices. To fill this time with productive learning opportunities, CSAIL came up with WaitSuite, a collection of apps that work on desktop or mobile, offering up educational micro-moments where you can brush up on second language vocab skills and more in the time between everything else.
MIT’s work here isn’t unprecedented: They cite apps like Duolingo that already offer up short-term learning opportunities tied to devices like smartphones that we have with us everywhere. WaitSuite targets even more fleeting moments, like while you’re waiting for your phone or computer to connect to a WiFi network, or while you’re waiting for someone to text you back. WaitSuite also covers the time spent fetching emails, waiting for an elevator to arrive, and waiting for various kinds of content to load on your phone.

The system is simple, and basically presents you with a vocabulary word to translate, with a simple text entry field. This could be repurposed to learn specific lingo for various fields of study and work, or for SAT prep and more, but language learning was an easy target because of the flash card-like experience.
The system also automatically detects if your device is looking for a WiFi connection, or if your phone can detect Bluetooth iBeacons that indicate you’re near an elevator, and the automatic nature is key – users don’t have to think about what app to open, it’s presented instantly, letting them direct their full attention to that learning task for the few seconds they typically have to wait during these activities.
A side benefit of the apps was that users still paid attention to their original task: When they fill these moments with things like browsing social media, they tend to get lost in that secondary activity, but with these quick learning moments, they return their attention more fully to what they were doing in the first place.
It’s a very cool feature, and one that would make a lot more sense as an OS-level option. It’s hard to see how this would work more broadly in a consumer-focused application, but it’s still very interesting research that could definitely make for some cool products down the line. Check it out for yourself here if you’re interested.
Google has reached a settlement with Russia’s Federal Antimonopoly Service (FAS) agency in the antitrust case the Russian search rival Yandex had originally filed, claiming Google had violated local competition rules. The case revolved around how Google had required handset makers to pre-load their devices with Google apps and services in order to also gain access the Google Play Store application.
FAS had imposed a fine of 438M RUB (~$7.8M) on Google, following the antitrust ruling issued in September 2015. The fine amounts to 9 percent of Google’s revenue in Russia in 2014, plus inflations, Russian news agency TASS says.
The news of the out-of-court settlement was first reported by Reuters, and its details are also available on FAS’s website. According to Reuters, the settlement deal was approved by a Russian court on Monday, and is for a term of six years and nine months.
Per the terms of the agreement, Google will no longer demand exclusivity of its applications on Android devices in Russia, and it will not restrict the pre-installation of any competing search engines and applications – including on the Android home screen, FAS states. Google will also no longer require Google Search to be the only general search engine that’s pre-installed, and it will no longer enforce its prior agreements where handset makers had agreed to any of these terms.
FAS says that Google will have to now allow third parties to include their own search engines into the choice window, and the company must develop an active “choice window” for the Chrome browser which will allow users to pick their preferred default search engine.
In addition, the agreement states that Google will develop a new Chrome widget for Android devices already being used in Russia, which will replace the standard Google search widget on the home screen and allow users to see the new “choice screen” when it’s launched.
Within 60 days of the settlement’s approval, FAS also says, all the interested Russian search engines should have the opportunity to address Google about being included in the choice screen next year.
The deal also makes it possible for other applications to be pre-installed on Android devices in Russia.
The agreement here has wider implications than in Russia alone. Other countries have also been investigating Google’s antitrust behavior, as with the EU’s probe of Android OS which Google has attempted to rebuke, saying that it preloads its own apps and services in an effort to be competitive with rival platforms (namely, Apple’s.) Google’s battles with the EU are ongoing, with BT having in February waded in and taken Google’s side.
A Google spokesperson confirmed the settlement details, and offered the following statement:
“We are happy to have reached a commercial agreement with Yandex and a settlement with Russia’s competition regulator, the Federal Antimonopoly Service (FAS), resolving the competition case over the distribution of Google apps on Android.”

Featured Image: Shutterstock
Google has acquired a significant piece of land in Nevada, near Reno and Tesla’s Gigafactory site, which will house a future data center, and could also host a testing track for Waymo, the Alphabet-owned autonomous driving company. The purchase of the 1,210 acres in Nevada’s Tahoe Reno Industrial Center was reported by The Wall Street Journal on Monday, and follows the filing of documents detailing the transaction late last week.
The purchase of land doesn’t mean Google is breaking ground on a new data center immediately; the report says there aren’t any plans in the books to start construction right away. But with increasing emphasis on its cloud-based business, it’s unlikely the company will sit idle on plans to build new data center infrastructure for long.
More interesting might be the WSJ’s assertion that several people suggested Google might use the site as a future testing facility for Waymo’s autonomous vehicles. Nevada is in the process of passing legislation that could see it eventually allow self-driving tests with potentially fewer restrictions than are in place for testing in California, which might make it a good site for high-speed testing of vehicles, above the 35 MPH cap currently in place in Google’s home state.
The theory that Google could use the land for testing of vehicles is based mostly on the regulatory conditions in Nevada, and its co-backing of the bill currently making its way through the legislative process, as well as the fact that the parcel of land is much larger than would be required for any single data center. Still, it’s an interesting possibility, and one that makes sense if Waymo wants to continue expanding its real-world testing capabilities.
A lot of top-tier video games enjoy lengthy long-tail lives with remasters and re-releases on different platforms, but the effort put into some games could pay dividends in a whole new way, as companies training things like autonomous cars, delivery drones and other robots are looking to rich, detailed virtual worlds to provided simulated training environments that mimic the real world.
Just as companies including Boom can now build supersonic jets with a small team and limited funds, thanks to advances made possible in simulation, startups like NIO (formerly NextEV) can now keep pace with larger tech concerns with ample funding in developing self-driving software, using simulations of real-world environments including those derived from games like Grand Theft Auto V. Bloomberg reports that the approach is increasingly popular among companies that are looking to supplement real-world driving experience, including Waymo and Toyota’s Research Institute.
There are some drawbacks, of course: Anyone will tell you that regardless of the industry, simulation can do a lot, but it can’t yet fully replace real-world testing, which always diverges in some ways from what you’d find in even the most advanced simulations. Also, miles driven in simulation don’t count towards the total miles driven by autonomous software figures most regulatory bodies will actually care about in determining the road worthiness of self-driving systems.
The more surprising takeaway here is that GTA V in this instance isn’t a second-rate alternative to simulation software created for the purpose of testing autonomous driving software – it proves an incredibly advanced testing platform, because of the care taken in its open-world game design. That means there’s no reason these two market uses can’t be more aligned in future: Better, more comprehensive open-world game design means better play experiences for users looking for that truly immersive quality, and better simulation results for researchers who then leverage the same platforms as a supplement to real-world testing.
Microsoft’s business-centric IFTTT competitor Flow and its ‘low-code’ PowerApps platform are both getting major updates today. While these are obviously different services that solve different issues, both aim to help non-developers make better use of their existing data and services without having to write their own code. While Flow, at its core, uses the if-this-then-that model, PowerApps allows you to build your own desktop and mobile applications from scratch.
Out of those two services, Flow is still the more approachable one and with today’s update, Microsoft is adding a number of new features that make it more useful for building integrations that streamline the kind of approval workflows that are still the bane of many enterprise users. To help users build these approval processes, Flow is getting new templates and a streamlined design experience for them in this update (though it looks like this feature may not go live before the end of the week).
Flow is also getting better support for workflows that touch multiple team members. You were already able to share and maintain a flow with multiple people (this feature is now out of beta and generally available), but this update also adds sharable buttons that allow you to trigger a workflow for the Flow mobile apps and Microsoft Dynamics 365. In addition, Flow is getting support for instant actions based on button shortcuts that can appear on your phone’s home screen (with Android support launching today and iOS support coming “soon”).

As for PowerApps, this update adds better support for SharePoint lists. allows users to integrate their apps into Power BI dashboards and now features support for contextual in-app push notifications. In addition, the service is adding support for more data sources, bringing the current number to over 100 integrations.
PowerApps is also adding a tighter integration with Azure Functions, Microsoft’s “serverless” computing service that allows you to kick off more complex integrations and manipulate data from various sources.
Mickey Graham
Contributor



Mickey Graham works for the enterprise technology investment firm Work-Bench

After a lackluster year for enterprise technology venture capital investments, 2017 kicked off with a record breaking quarter for enterprise technology startups.
Following 4 straight quarters of decreasing investment, investors poured a record-breaking $5 billion dollars into enterprise technology startups in the first quarter of 2017 alone – a nearly 80% increase from the previous quarter – across a record number of 237 deals.
These enterprise startups – solving problems for world’s largest companies around data & analytics, cloud-native infrastructure, cybersecurity, and AI-powered business applications for the future workplace – are building businesses by capturing some of the close to $3.5 trillion that the Global 1000 and Fortune 500 spend every year on software and technology.
And they’re having a moment. Coming on the heels of Cisco’s massive $3.7B acquisition of AppDynamics right before their public offering earlier this year – and MuleSoft’s 45 percent pop on their first day of trading two weeks ago – enterprise is clearly in vogue.
With Alteryx’s IPO last week, there’s still a robust lineup of enterprise exits coming down the pipeline, including Presido, Okta, and Yext, who have all filed S-1s in preparation of an IPO, and speculation from many more including Cloudera, DocuSign, Domo, and Tenable Network Security.
 

 
As a venture fund focused exclusively on enterprise technology, we’ve been following these numbers closely at Work-Bench. Using data from our publicly available Enterprise Startups Funding Database – where every week we track and record all publicly announced enterprise technology funding rounds – we took a look at the record-breaking 237 deals completed in Q1 2017.

Looking at geography data and funding raised by individual states, California is the clear leader. Since 2014 through, New York has established itself the definitive number two hub for enterprise technology in the United States with its unparalleled proximity to Fortune 500 customers and diverse range industry buyers spanning financial services, pharmaceuticals, media, insurance, and telecom giants. Massachusetts did have a strong Q1 though, narrowly beating out New York for second place with $471M raised compared to $446M raised. Massachusetts’ growth was buoyed by large later stage deals that included Fuze’s $104M Series E, Kaminario’s $75M Series F, DataRobot’s $54M Series C, and Kensho’s $50M Series B.
New York meanwhile had two $50M rounds from Namely’s Series D and Collibra’s Series C, but the majority of rounds came from Seed through Series B startup, which bodes well for the city’s continued momentum in the early stage ecosystem. Given the number of mature companies who will likely raise in 2017 as well, New York will likely regain control over Massachusetts in the next quarter or two to finish the year in second place behind California.
Other notable deals included Singapore-based datacenter company AirTrunk’s $400M venture round from Goldman Sachs, automated application testing company Tricentis’ $165M Series B, connect smart machines platform ClouldMinds’ $100M Series A, and real-time data streaming Confluent’s $50M Series C. Congrats to all these great companies on a record breaking quarter for enterprise technology.
Ant Financial, the Alibaba affiliate company focused on financial services, appears to have finally won its battle with Euronet to acquire MoneyGram, the U.S.-based cross-border payments service, after it increased its bid to $1.2 billion.
The firm initially bid $880 million for MoneyGram back in January, but now it has increased its offer from $13.25 per share for NASDAQ-listed MoneyGram to $18.00 following a counter bid from Euronet lodged in March. Euronet, which is also based in the U.S., offered $1 billion and played up concerns around the potential for MoneyGram to be acquired by a Chinese company — Ant Financial, which operates Alipay, China’s largest online payment provider.
Ant Financial’s new offer — which represents a 64 percent premium to MoneyGram’s average share price prior to the announcement of the first offer — has been unanimously approved by MoneyGram’s board, while a collection of shareholders who own 46 percent of voting rights have also given it the nod.
On its side, Ant Financial said it has “already made significant progress towards obtaining the regulatory approvals necessary to complete the transaction.” That apparently includes anti-trust clearance in the U.S. and some state-level approvals, too. One major hurdle remaining is approval from the U.S. Committee on Foreign Investment. That’s an area where Euronet will hope the deal trips up. However, Jack Ma has already put in work meeting U.S. President Donal Trump — who would have final say over the deal — and pledging to create jobs in the U.S., a claim that Ant Financial repeated.
“Over the past few months, we have enjoyed working closely with the MoneyGram team and remain committed to our plans to invest further in the MoneyGram business. We plan to grow the U.S.-based team and create even greater opportunities for the MoneyGram community as we pursue our shared vision of global inclusive finance in an increasingly digital era,” Ant Financial International President Doug Feagin said in a statement.
Both parties anticipate the deal will be completed in the second half of this year, after which, they said, MoneyGram will operate as an independent subsidiary that retains its brand, management, infrastructure and headquarters in Texas.
The reason for Euronet’s interest in MoneyGram is clear. Founded in Hungary in 1994, the company has expanded internationally by making a series of acquisitions, including other money transfer providers. The offer by Ant Financial is more surprising, however, because MoneyGram deals mainly in offline service (customers go to agents at brick-and-mortar locations to send or receive money). Most of Ant Financial’s most notable acquisitions and investments so far have been in companies that have similar online services to Alipay, including Kakao Pay in Korea and Paytm in India.
Building an offline financial services network makes sense, however, because it allow Ant Financial to serve more users outside of China. In a January interview, Ant Financial CEO Eric Jing said MoneyGram would let the company offer more money transfers in U.S., China, India, Mexico and the Philippines. The company is reportedly intensifying its growth plans in preparation for an IPO later this year.

Featured Image: daviddennisphotos.com/Getty Images
Facebook has issued a statement after a video showing a fatal shooting was uploaded onto the social media network by the alleged murderer. Cleveland Police say that Steve Stephens broadcast the killing of an unidentified elderly man on Facebook on Sunday evening and is the target of a manhunt as of this writing. [Update: The victim has been identified as 74-year-old Robert Godwin Sr. Facebook issued a second statement clarifying that the shooting was uploaded by Stephens after the murder, not broadcast on Facebook Live.]
Stephens also posted two more videos in which he claimed to have to committed other murders and said he was going to “kill as many people as I can,” before his account was shut down by Facebook.
In a statement to journalists, a company spokesperson said “This is a horrific crime and we do not allow this kind of content on Facebook. We work hard to keep a safe environment on Facebook, and are in touch with law enforcement in emergencies when there are direct threats to physical safety.”
Though Facebook’s policy prohibits content that glorifies or incites violence, that rule is inherently difficult to enforce on a social media platform that encourages its users to post photos and videos in real time or soon after they are taken.
Facebook Live launched to all users almost exactly one year ago and while the majority of videos are innocuous, the feature has broadcast, both accidentally and on purpose, heinous acts of violence. These include the shooting of a toddler, the torture of a teenager with special needs and sexual assaults in Chicago and Sweden.
The Chicago case prompted questions about whether people who watch crimes live but don’t report them can be legally charged and what jurisdictions are responsible. Furthermore, once media has been put on platforms like Facebook, Twitter and YouTube, it’s easy for other users to save and re-share. This means victims and families are forced to re-experience the trauma and is an especially insidious problem in cases where live streaming was arguably used by perpetrators as a psychological weapon.

Featured Image: Sean Gallup/Getty Images
Richard Florida is most frequently associated with the concept of the rising creative class and his books have described how these high-paid knowledge workers are slowly changing the face of our cities. In his first book he foresaw the growth of high tech hubs in places like San Francisco and Pittsburgh and in his new book, The New Urban Crisis, he describes the dangers we face when segregation and inequality increases as cities change.
Florida equates the rise of cities to the growth of popular bands. By filling a particular niche – Pittsburgh in self-driving vehicles, Nashville in new music startups, for example – small places can begin pulling in the creative classes who leave less innovative cities behind. What’s the solution for places in between – Wheeling, for example? Florida wants to see rail connections between outlying cities where housing is cheap and the “spike cities” where land is expensive. This is happening in dribs and drabs but if a city intends to be competitive it has to happen much faster.
I interviewed Florida about his new book, what he expects out of cities in the next decade, and how the future isn’t going to be awful. You can listen to us by clicking below or simply downloading an MP3.
Technotopia is a podcast about a better future by John Biggs. You can subscribe in Stitcher or iTunes and download the latest MP3 here.





Whenever you watch a video, post a picture, or send a message, the bytes that make up that item are analyzed and tallied by your internet provider. Once enough of them pile up, you’ve reached your data cap — annoying, right?
But what if some of those data-heavy apps and services just didn’t count towards that cap? That’s what’s called “zero rating,” and while it sounds good in theory, it’s rather problematic in practice. So how does it work, who does it, and why do people think it’s such a big deal?
Many will first have heard the term zero rating relatively recently, in the form of programs like T-Mobile’s “Binge On,” which exempts certain streaming video and music services from data counts. That way, people don’t blow through their data caps while, say, watching Netflix on the bus to work every day.
On a technical level, zero rating is a pretty simple process. The packets of data that go to and fro on the internet (wireless and wired) are all labeled with their origins and destinations; that’s how the routers and switches know where to send them, or who to notify if they didn’t get there.
All an internet provider needs to do is write a bit of code that notes when a packet is going to or coming from a certain place on the internet— for example, a range of IP addresses designating a service like YouTube. It treats those packets the same as any others and sends them on their way, only once that’s done, it doesn’t enter them into the official ledger saying how much data you’ve used. Those packets are on the house.
Sure enough, Binge On and its zero rating ilk have proven popular — though it helped that every subscriber was opted into it — and no doubt people have avoided overage fees through Binge On and its equivalents on other carriers and providers.
But when things sound too good to be true, they usually are. Think about it for a minute, and problems start to appear.
Packet problems
For example, what if the provider decided to zero-rate its own services to give itself a competitive advantage? That’s exactly what Comcast did with its “Stream TV” on-demand video service; shows watched on it didn’t count towards the ISP’s data caps, while competitors like Netflix and YouTube did. (The company’s justification for this was that the other services came over the cable-powered internet, while Stream TV came over the internet-powered cable; you may judge for yourself the quality of this argument.)

Related Articles
WTF is a VPN?
WTF is cloud computing?
WTF is the dark web?
Or perhaps that provider might require a service, say a music streaming site, to pay a significant upfront fee to get into the zero rating club. While a big company like Spotify might be able to spare the cash, an upstart service looking to break into the space might not. Consumers would hardly pick the service that ate up a big piece of their data allowance, even if it was better.
Or, maybe the company isn’t completely honest about how the system works. T-Mobile was guilty of this, saying that for certain sites, the price for unlimited streaming was a reduction in video quality to 480p. Only it turned out that they were reducing the quality of all video on their network, regardless of whether the site was a Binge On partner or not. Good thing someone checked, right?

And of course, even if zero rating services were to remain relatively innocent, it’s very simple once consumers get used to the idea to begin charging for it. That’s a bait-and-switch tactic that’s been used since the dawn of time — “The first one’s free” — and ISPs are notorious for having opaque and shifting fees and restrictions.
Those are ways that malicious or incautious use of zero rating can be anticompetitive. But subtler issues are possible, too.
Facebook likely had the best of intentions when it proposed its Free Basics program in India, which would have zero-rated a number of internet resources: Wikipedia, local news and weather, job boards, and… you guessed it, Facebook. While the company saw this as a way to get people connected with what it considered critical online tools, others saw as an American megacompany swooping in to choose what low-income mobile subscribers would be permitted to access — and in the process, a play to get them hooked on the ubiquitous social network.
So while basic zero rating practices may not be in themselves highly harmful, they’re part of a class of conduct that’s against the principles of net neutrality: choosing certain bits and bytes to treat differently from others. It’s simpler and more effective to make sure this never happens in the first place than to waste everyone’s time scrutinizing every method, business model, and motive.
Highly illogical
On top of all that, it is worth noting that the whole zero-rating model is based on a lightly camouflaged logical fallacy that carriers are counting on consumers not to spot. Think about it:

If high-traffic activities like video streaming can be offered for free and without counting towards caps, then networks must have more than enough bandwidth to handle it.
If networks have enough bandwidth to handle it, then there’s no need for data caps.
If there’s no need for data caps, then there’s no reason to zero-rate anything!

It turns out that the entire concept of zero rating contradicts the notion that data caps were necessary in the first place. Bandwidth isn’t unlimited, but clearly there’s enough that carriers don’t need to charge for using enormous amounts of it — you can stream ten times your cap amount via zero-rated services and they won’t say a thing. But go a kilobyte over with a messaging service or game download and you’ll be charged.
This means cap amounts, and the ways they’re tracked, are completely arbitrary — they have nothing to do with how much bandwidth is actually available, or how much you actually use. So why do carriers have them? Because deceptive or not, they make money. And in the end, that’s why carriers have zero rating as well: it’s the carrot, and data caps are the stick.
For now, zero rating is mostly limited to programs that you can opt in and out of. But the FCC, which is largely responsible for determining the legality of these things, recently made it clear that it won’t be looking into existing or future zero rating schemes — unless, one hopes, they’re really egregious. Until that happens, you can expect zero rating to become more common, although it won’t become any better of an idea.

When they started operating in the U.S. about five years ago, meal kit companies looked big, disruptor-sized, poised to transform the way people eat entirely. They were even seen as a potential thorn in the side of the massive U.S. grocery industry, which racks up about $650 billion in annual sales.
Now, meal kit companies are facing an onslaught of competition from newcomers and big food brands alike. Turning a profit has proven elusive. And somewhat embarrassingly, it looks like meal kit companies need to emulate the brick-and-mortar groceries and online retailers they once criticized for overwhelming shoppers with choices. To go truly mainstream, they need to diversify their offerings.
It’s not a path that founders, or their investors, imagined at the outset.
At the advent of meal kit services, the idea was to keep it simple– package up already measured ingredients with a recipe card, and ship these to subscribers’ doors. Meal kits would spare customers annoying lines at the grocery store, and teach them a few culinary skills along the way. Meanwhile, the companies planned to collect data about consumers’ dining preferences.
Sun Basket meal kit ingredients.
Kevin Diestel of Sapphire Ventures explains the appeal of his own portfolio company, Sun Basket, and other meal kit makers by comparing them to earlier subscription services that used big data to drive their business success. “They’re riding the same wave in grocery that Netflix did in video and Amazon did in e-commerce,” he said.
Based on the number of meal kit delivery companies to receive meaningful rounds of funding, it’s clear that other investors agree. Notable players in the space operating stateside include early pioneers Plated, Blue Apron and Hello Fresh, along with Home Chef, Peach Dish, Purple Carrot, Gobble, Marley Spoon, Green Chef and Chef’d. 
Even e-grocers like Fresh Direct and Good Eggs are starting to offer meal kits now. Meanwhile, traditional groceries or specialty food markets like Publix, and Ahold’s Giant-Carlisle are selling meal kits in their brick-and-mortar stores.
Purple Carrot’s vegan “TB12” meal kits were created with the NFL’s Tom Brady.
Each company puts a different spin on the meal kit. Chef’d sells them a la carte while others require a subscription. Purple Carrot offers vegan fare and “performance meals” recommended by pro-athletes, starting with Tom Brady. Sun Basket sells gluten-free meal kits and kits for adherents to paleo and vegetarian diets. Gobble’s meal kits can be prepared in 10 minutes.
Altogether, U.S. meal kit delivery startups have raised more than $650 million in venture capital to date, according to research from Packaged Facts. Rumors are swirling that Blue Apron is now readying for a 2017 IPO..text .crunchreport h3 {color:#fff}

		Latest Crunch Report 







Element Raises $102 Million | Crunch Report





Watch More Episodes



They’re certainly producing revenue. Meal kit companies sold between $1 billion and $1.5 billion in 2016, according to industry estimates from MarketResearch and others. The potential for growth is there, still. A Piper Jaffray note published in June 2016 predicts the market will reach $4 billion near-term, and $36 billion in annual sales by 2026. That’s about the most optimistic estimate out there.
At this point, the meal kits business model feels more than established. It feels gimmicky. “What’s out there right now serves a very small segment of the population that wants to sit there and pour cilantro onto their beef,” observes Barclay’s analyst Karen Short, who believes meal kit companies with their “very involved” menus haven’t even come close to their potential.
 
A Blue Apron meal kit.
Larger questions loom around profitability.
Consider Blue Apron. On the one hand, it’s normal for venture-backed companies to focus on growth over margins, and Blue Apron has been using its venture capital to build new warehouses and fulfillment centers, including one in Linden, New Jersey last season.
On the other hand, Blue Apron hasn’t revealed how much it spent on marketing and advertising to get customers to make a reported $750 million in purchases on the site last year. Like other meal kit providers, the company gives away a lot of free meals to acquire new subscribers. Blue Apron declined repeated requests for comment or financial information.

Blue Apron has also suffered criticism for rampant workplace safety issues, revealed in a blistering investigation by Buzzfeed’s Caroline O’Donovan last year. Such operational problems can cost a company dearly, not just in terms of legal fees and settlements, but also in terms of public image and recruiting efforts.
Blue Apron won’t be alone if it doesn’t make it to an IPO any time soon. In 2015, a European competitor, Hello Fresh, suspended plans for an initial public offering, seeking to improve its financials.
HelloFresh meal boxes.
Hello Fresh has had its own issues, including meaningful turnover in its executive and lower ranks. But Forrester principal analyst Brendan Witcher, a former chef, is bearish on meal kit companies in general, citing subscriber churn as the biggest issue for any subscription commerce business, including food.
“Once the novelty wears off, most people will ask if meal kits fit conveniently into their life,” says Witcher. “People like the option to make what they want, when they want. Managing a subscription service can become more complicated than going to the grocery every week, especially for families or people who simply enjoy going to their neighborhood market.”

Crunchbase






				Blue Apron			


 
Founded
2012


Overview
Blue Apron is a New York-based start-up that is changing the way people cook at home. Our weekly subscription service delivers everything you need to make fresh meals. We go shopping for our customers at wholesale, and deliver all the ingredients in exactly the right proportions, along with beautifully printed recipe cards. It's like having your own private chef-- you'll discover new recipes, eat fresher …


Location

New York, NY



Categories

Food and Beverage, 																													E-Commerce, 																													Delivery 


Founders
Ilia Papas, Matt Salzberg, Matthew Wadiak


Website

http://www.blueapron.com 


Full profile for Blue Apron 



 



				Plated			


 
Founded
2012


Overview
Plated is redefining weeknight dinner. Through weekly chef-designed menus, they're helping America eat and live better.


Location

New York, NY



Categories

E-Commerce, 																													Social Media Management, 																													Cooking, 																													Hospitality 


Founders
Josh Hix, Nick Taranto


Website

http://plated.com 


Full profile for Plated 



 



				HelloFresh			


 
Founded
2012


Overview
HelloFresh is a food subscription company that sends pre-portioned ingredients to users’ doorstep each week. It enables anyone to cook quick and healthy meals designed by nutritionists and chefs.

HelloFresh is based in Berlin, Germany.


Location

Berlin, 16



Categories

Subscription Service, 																													Consumer, 																													Food Delivery, 																													Cooking 


Founders
Thomas Griesel, Dominik Richter


Website

http://www.hellofreshgroup.com 


Full profile for HelloFresh 









To generate great returns for investors, analysts suggest, meal kit companies will have to offer a greater diversity of products. Blue Apron, at least, has begun to walk down this path. Besides its meal kit subscriptions, it now sells wines and mid-to-high priced items for the kitchen, for example, a bag of peppercorns for $14.99, a pair of red wine glasses for $29.99, and a chef’s knife and petty knife set for $159.99.
A breakfast sandwich from HelloFresh
Room for growth could also come from expanding into simpler and lower-cost recipes, or beyond dinner into breakfast, lunch and snacks, Barclay’s Karen Short suggests. Most of the meal kit companies currently focus on dinner, and they sell their products to people with a good amount of income. But Hello Fresh and Chef’d — the latter in partnership with Quaker Oats — have recently branched into meal kits for breakfast.
As HelloFresh USA CEO Edward Boyes tells TechCrunch, “We are in e-food. Not meal kits or e-commerce. What we send to people is a dining and cooking experience. And we’ve mostly focused on dinner. That left more than 80 percent of the meals that people consume the rest of the week as not being catered to by Hello Fresh.”
Expanding their geographic footprint is another tack some companies are taking. For example, Plated already ships across the entire continental US. The company has been figuring out how to serve customers who don’t live anywhere near a specialty or health food store, says co-founder Nick Taranto.
A panko-crusted salmon dinner created by Plated.
That includes by seeking authorization to accept SNAP benefits, aka “food stamps” for meal kits. The USDA is running pilot programs that allow recipients of SNAP benefits to buy food online through e-grocers like Amazon Fresh and Fresh Direct. But none of the meal kit companies are permitted to accept SNAP yet. Plated could be among the first.
Taranto sees meal kits as a huge help for families who don’t have the benefit of a good grocery store, and healthful restaurants nearby. He also sees Plated’s meal kits as affordable, on balance. “We focus on helping people buy just what they want, and using it all, no waste.” The company charges  about $48 per week for its minimum subscription, which provides two people with two meals twice a week. Blue Apron’s minimum subscription costs $59.94 per week, providing three meals for two people.
A fourth approach centers on partnering with traditional grocers to distribute meal kits. For example, Purple Carrot started selling a downsized version of its meal kits in select Whole Foods stores in late 2016. And Hello Fresh is selling a version of its dinner kits in Sainsburys in London.
Plated cofounders Josh Hix and Nick Taranto.
The challenge for all is to move quickly, while trying to wring some profitability from their operations.
Taranto says Plated is always evaluating new technologies that could help associates prepare foods and pack orders efficiently. Robotics, whether to expedite delivery or chop up and package ingredients, seem like a necessity for meal kit companies. But automation takes significant capital expenditure.
On the bright side, there’s plenty of room to grow the market. Even with all the buzz around and investment into meal kit startups, industry research suggests that meal kits move less than one-half of a percentage point worth of food-at-home sales in a year.
The impact is surprisingly small given the continued rise of e-commerce and willingness of consumers to order food online. According to a recent Nielsen survey, 14 percent of shoppers the world over are already buying groceries and household goods online and via mobile. Nearly one-third of customers said they would be willing to do so.

Featured Image: Bryce Durbin/TechCrunch.com



Everything we do is terrible, says the trope. We’re oppressive. We’re exploitative. We’re sexist, racist, classist. We deify horrible frat-boy brogrammer assholes, while funding, and celebrating, morally bankrupt apps that exist to stand in for their mothers and/or servants. We destroy jobs and displace the working class. We cater to the rich and privileged urban elite, while the poor masses fall further behind. How can we possibly claim to be building a better world?
And the thing is, you can, in isolation, actually make a pretty good case that the tech industry is guilty of all of these things. In isolation. But pull back just a little, and it’s hard to deny that most of these things are symptoms, not problems — symptoms of the world in which we exist. Compared to the rest of that world, the tech industry is, mostly, a beacon of hope and progress.
The congenital sexism of our industry has been the subject of whole acres of pixels over the last few years; no need belaboring that point. But at the same time, InHerSight, an organization devoted to providing “a powerful and representative picture of what it’s really like for women in the workplace,” reports that tech is rated by its respondents as the best industry for women to work in. Yes, you read that correctly. The best of all industries. Despite its manifold, manifest flaws.
Is the upper echelon of tech executives heavily, wildly disproportionately dominated by men? It sure is. But consider the context: specifically, that we live in a world where there are more S&P 1500 CEOs named John than there are women. (This is also true of the FTSE 100.)
Do the major tech companies’ diversity reports make for fairly grim reading? Yes, they do. But they’re not outright chilling, unlike, say, reading that: “racial resentment played a larger role in the 2016 [American] election than economic concerns … Trump successfully leveraged existing resentment towards African Americans in combination with emerging fears of increased racial diversity in America to reshape the presidential electorate.” Meanwhile, in the U.K., well —


Every day I wonder what non-racist Leave voters think they were voting for. https://t.co/e35sL4WTjl
— Dorian Lynskey (@Dorianlynskey) March 16, 2017



People complain that technology’s priorities are pathologically skewed and wrong:


climate changeglobal unrestwealth inequalitylack of access to medicine
and our tech resources go to food delivery robots for rich people https://t.co/BPD4LLhC5T
— Spanish California (@_danilo) April 12, 2017



But let me remind you that the most powerful nation in the world recently wasted literally trillions of dollars on a useless war that consumed hundreds of thousands of lives and led to massive destabilization and unrest. Fortunately, the current U.S. administration… uh… yeah, that sentence isn’t going to go anywhere good, is it.
Let me remind you that the parasitical finance industry now consumes some 30 percent of all U.S. corporate profits, and counting. Of course, because of their important work, the rest of the world gets… well… look, the important thing is that they’re making an enormous amount of money, OK? Don’t ask what the rest of us receive in exchange for that 30 percent tithe of all profits. No good’s going to come of that.
Almost everyone I know in the tech industry (obviously there’s selection bias there, but hear me out) genuinely wants to do more good for the world, and to help people. But we live in late capitalism1, which straitjackets our options. Even Elon Musk had to hit the jackpot with PayPal before he could build Tesla and SpaceX. Young frat boys are the entrepreneurs of choice because they’re the ones who feel like they can afford to take that risk in the world in which we live. Privileged pretty-people assholes have invaded the tech industry because it has become a locus of power and of cultural cachet. All this was inevitable, in late capitalism.
And please note: Yesterday’s expensive luxuries are tomorrow’s low-cost necessities. Mobile phones were outrageously offensive symbols of investment-banker excess, once. Passenger jets used to be so expensive that you were expected to pay for your tickets in installments. The world’s first CD players cost thousands of dollars. Now CDs are obsolete in most countries, and a side-hustle for Kentucky Fried Chicken in others:


We are truly in the weirdest timeline https://t.co/11wjtsmml8 pic.twitter.com/YzCkfej44J
— Matthew Ogle (@flaneur) April 10, 2017



Don’t get me wrong. I understand where this rage comes from, and to some extent, that well of fury speaks well of tech. Because while some of it simply comes from the rage of the powerless against the powerful — and while it may not feel like it, my fellow nerds, we now find ourselves in the heart of perhaps the world’s primary locus of power — some of it comes from the sense, the expectation, the hope that tech should be better.
And you know what? They’re right. We should be better; much better than what we so often see around us. We’re the ones building tomorrow, and setting its standards. No one else is going to improve things for us. It is literally our job.
But it’s hard to build a better world, and it’s especially hard when you’re enmeshed in a system whose primary design goal often seems to be to perpetuate power, wealth and privilege for those who already have it. So cut the tech industry a little slack. We can’t help but reflect the sewers that birthed us from time to time. But remember what Oscar Wilde once said: We are all in the gutter, but some of us are looking at the stars.

1For the record, I am a capitalist, and I believe in capitalism and its power to lift the world out of poverty; but at the same time, its excesses need to be checked and corralled from time to time, and our collective failure to do so has allowed it to go all Sorcerer’s Apprentice on us over the last few decades.

Featured Image: Steve Snodgrass/Flickr UNDER A CC BY 2.0 LICENSE
Altra’s Torin IQ were inevitable. Sensors integrated into articles of clothing have long been acknowledged to be the next step in wearable tech, and the Utah-based footwear maker just happened to beat most of its competition to the finish line with a pair of running shoes that bake tracking directly into the sole.
But unlike the scads of smart clothing that’s almost certainly on the horizon, the IQs are designed to address the very real issue of repetitive stress injury. It’s what turns running from a terrific full-body cardio workout into a veritable disintegrator of body parts.
And it’s what made me jump at the opportunity to have a go with the company’s new smart kicks. I only recently started running again after systematically grinding every joint and muscle below my waist into a fine powder. For all the health positives of running, doing it for any extended period of time can be downright destructive.
And the common wisdom among many runners is that modern running shoes only exacerbate the issue with over-padding that masks the warning signs our bodies have evolved to let us know when we’re doing it. It’s why you briefly saw so many folks running around with those ridiculous toe shoes a few years back. To answer your question, yes, they think they’re better than you, but they don’t have to say it because their shoes have done all the talking.

For those less inclined to adopt barefoot or near-barefoot running, there are plenty of shoes on the market designed to correct for common running problems like pronation and supination. Like many other runners, I tend toward the former, and it’s left me with a limp on numerous occasions, along with a laundry list of different issues like heel bursitis and plantar fasciitis, to name a few. I had to get shots in my foot to relieve inflammation. I don’t recommend it.
Any decent running store should have some sort of rig in place to better measure your impact. After recovering from my injuries the first time, I visited a store in Manhattan with a treadmill and camera rig designed to capture the runner’s foot strike at the moment of impact.
Torin IQ’s sensors are an attempt to provide a longer-term solution in real time. The app divides the bottom of the foot into sectors: heel, toe and left and right sides. A built-in audio assistant helpfully offers tips for correcting runs in real time, along with your standard array of motivation sentiments. And when a run in finished, it shows a breakdown of how you landed.
This is far and away the shoes’ most useful smart feature. They’ll also tell you the time spent running, cadence, distance, pace and the like, but you’re not really getting much there that you aren’t already getting on your wrist-worn wearable — or even your phone with its built-in pedometer.
Also, runs need to be initiated through the app, rather than starting automatically (which includes a sometimes lengthy auto-syncing process), and distance works through GPS tracking, meaning if you’re mostly a treadmill runner like I am, that feature is more or less rendered moot. For those reasons, the Torin IQs shouldn’t be considered a fitness band replacement, so much as a supplement.

Perhaps even most importantly, however, the shoes are extremely comfortable. Individual options will surely vary for something as objective as shoe comfort, but the Altra’s are one of the most comfortable pairs of running shoes I’ve owned in recent memory, and they shockingly took little breaking in, whereas other footwear brands can sometimes take weeks of running to get a truly comfortable fit.
I suspect at least some of that is owed to the company’s Foot Shape front feature, which offers good breathing room for the toes, an often overlooked element in selecting a good pair of running shoes. The tracking system also doesn’t seem to add any discernible weight to the pair.
I’ll be curious to see how the things hold up after a few months. I’ve owned another pair of Altras (the decidedly lower-cost Impulse) and I wore a giant hole in the side of the thing after a couple of months. The company has also carved a half circle in the insole through which you access the battery (the whole system should be waterproof, however), which could ultimately prove to have some integrity issues after a couple hundred miles.
With an MSRP of $220, the Altra Torin IQ are on the pricey side of the running-shoe spectrum. In fact, that’s a $100 or so premium over other entries in the company’s Torin line. And unlike fitness bands, you’re really supposed to be replacing your running shoes a couple of times a year, so that number can really add up fairly quickly. Though given the fact that these are first-gen, I’d expect the price to come down reasonably quickly with subsequent releases.

The Torin IQ do feel a bit first-generation in some of the execution, but the idea is actually a good one, and if they can actively help you correct your running style, in real time and long term, they’re working just as intended. And if a couple of months from now I can avoid limping and a couple of shots in my heel, I’d gladly pay that premium the next time around.
While Uber’s woes take center stage in the U.S., a different on-demand battle that’s been playing out in China is coming to the states.
The battle isn’t over car sharing. It’s not over bus sharing, either, though that, too, is a growing focus for investors and automotive companies that are desperate to understand how cities and transportation are changing. This clash is over the latest wrinkle in urban bike-sharing — dockless bike sharing. And it has founders and VCs around the globe seeing dollar signs, while regulators are wrestling — again — with how to ensure they’re not victims of a trend that seemed to emerge nearly overnight.
“Dockless bike sharing is something that people worry about until they realize it’s a benefit” to society, says Atomico co-founder Mattias Ljungman, who calls the ability to leave one’s bicycle where a trip ends “the real revolution here.” Docking stations are “very complicated,” he says. “Not only do riders need to know where to park their bikes, but sometimes the stations are full. It’s a pain.”
Atomico has already placed a big bet on Ofo, a Beijing-based dockless bike-share company that has so far raised roughly $580 million from VCs at a post-money valuation of north of $1 billion. China-based investors are looking to pour even more into the three-year-old company given its current momentum, suggests Ljungman, citing the more than one million connected bikes it has already placed on city streets in China, and customers who are taking an astonishing 10 million rides per day, compared with the roughly 10 million rides per year that London’s public bike-sharing service powers.
The story is much the same for 16-month-old, Shanghai-based Mobike, which also claims to have more than a million bikes in its fleet and has raised $410 million from investors at a valuation that the WSJ reports is north of $1 billion.
Another Beijing-based bike-share company, Bluegogo, is drafting behind both. Founded a mere six months ago, it has already raised at least $65 million from investors.
Still, China is not the U.S; it remains to be seen if a variation of the model will work here. “Just as China will tell you that things that work in the rest of the world won’t work in China because of its 5,000-year-long cultural history, things in China don’t necessarily work [in the U.S.] either,” says Sean O’Sullivan, the founder and managing director of the venture firm SOSV.
Friend or foe
O’Sullivan has been watching dockless bike sharing as closely as anyone. Like a growing number of VCs, he has a horse in this race: New York-based Social Bicycles, or SoBi, which says it was first in producing a dockless bike that features a trackable GPS system and an integrated lock that allows it to be parked at any bike rack in a city.
SoBi founder Ryan Rzepecki launched the company in 2010 after serving 17 months as a project manager at the New York Department of Transportation. There, he says, he was witness to the city’s earliest thinking about bike sharing, before it partnered with Alta, then parent company of Citi Bike. New York is now home to the largest bike-share program in the U.S., but it required years of advance planning that Rzepecki says gave him “great appreciation for how cities work and the things that concern them.”
Among them were “ensuring the bikes would be inspected and maintained, that their docking stations would be kept clean, that bikes would be evenly distributed throughout the city, and that there was data sharing,” says Rzepecki’s then-boss, former New York DOT Commissioner Janette Sadik-Khan, who now advises mayors on urban planning. “It was pretty basic stuff” that had New Yorkers’ best-interest in mind, she adds. “Rogue bike systems,” she complains, don’t necessarily have the same priorities.
“These new companies seem to be using [the bikes] more like marketing vehicles and using the streets for their private gain,” Sadik-Khan says of Ofo and Mobike, which are giving city dwellers more freedom to zip around congested cities like Shanghai, but attracting bad press in the process around bike-strewn pedestrian walkways and bikes piled sky high. “You can create dangerous situations by inviting this tsunami of bikes that could wind up anywhere and everywhere.”
Rzepecki certainly believes they’ve been less thoughtful in their approach than SoBi, which has more than a thousand of its own bikes in Santa Monica, Ca., and Portland, Ore., among other places in the U.S., Canada and Europe.
Most importantly, he says, SoBi has “entered into a partnership with every city where we’re operating,” he says. “Having been on the other side, we understood the importance of being good partners.”
SoBi also uses incentives to manage its fleet of bikes so that “instead of a scavenger hunt to find a bike each day, a user knows that there’s a bunch of bikes three blocks away.” How it works: Users pay per minute, with pro-rated prices ranging from $3 per hour to $8 per hour depending on the city. Most rides last 15 minutes on average, with most trips costing $2 apiece. But riders face extra fees if they lock up a bike outside an area that’s been geofenced by SoBi. Conversely, if a user parks a bike in a particular area at SoBi’s request, that rider is given a credit.
One might think the difference too nominal to pack a punch, but it’s “really effective” in ensuring equal distribution of the bikes, says Rzepecki. Meanwhile, Ofo and Mobike have no such incentives program in place, counting instead on the market to self-regulate. They also barreled into the many Chinese cities without consulting first with local regulators, a move that investors — which include China-based heavyweights Xiaomi and Tencent Holdings — seemed to sanction.
That’s begun to change more recently. “Ofo is working with government,” insists Ljungman. “It’s always looking for solutions.” Rzepecki hints that they have no choice. “Shenzhen and Shanghai are starting to put in service standards to prevent chaos in the streets.”
Good or evil
Certainly, cities have plenty of reason to want bike-share programs to work, dockless or otherwise. Bikes don’t produce carbon emissions, they take up less space than cars and riding a bicycle is a heart-healthy activity.
San Francisco, which was caught off guard by plans by Ofo and Bluegogo to enter the U.S., recently proposed legislation around how to obtain and maintain a stationless bike-share permit. (Bluegogo, which initially aimed to park its bicycles in public bike racks, says now it will use bike stations in private parking spaces.)
NACTO, an association of 51 major North American cities, issued a statement earlier this week saying it also welcomes bike-share systems of all stripes, as long as they’re “part of a city’s overall transportation network and vision.” (Companies that have “shown that they are not serious about providing bikes as a real mobility option for people .  . . [but] more interested in media attention and a quick buyout . . . put the public at risk,” it added.)
Dockless bikes make a lot of sense as a last-mile option for commuters, too. Even now, Rzepecki sees a day when SoBi’s bikes are electric and work with fleets of autonomous cars and shuttles to get people to their office doors. Ofo has the same ambitions, says Ljungman, not least because China’s ride-hailing giant Didi is among its investors. In fact, Didi’s customers can already reserve an Ofo bike through Didi’s app.
As with Uber — which envisioned itself as a logistics company from the start — the potential also exists for the bikes to carry more than people. Ljungman says that making deliveries, for example, is “not something [Ofo] has on its radar, but given they’re building a really interesting network and distribution capability . . . the amount of products and services you can attach to that is pretty large.”
Still, it’s easy to conclude that investors — and founders — are getting ahead of themselves in a race to create the next so-called decacorn.
Though Ofo has global ambitions — it reportedly wants to introduce 50,000 bikes in roughly 10 U.S. cities by July — Ljungman acknowledges that the U.S. market will be a tough nut to crack. “You need the right kind of cities. In many places in the world, cities weren’t built around cars. They were built around people walking or cycling or even riding horses,” he notes. “There’s a cultural aspect, too. In Amsterdam, you see lots of bicycles all over the place. They rule the city.” That’s not so in many American cities where bikers represent fewer than 1 percent of all commuters.
The economics of the business appear challenged, too. While bike-share companies insist that they’re making the bikes as efficiently and cost-effectively as possible in partnership with China-based manufacturers, it hasn’t proven a lucrative business to date. For example, Motivate — which bought Citi Bike from Alta in 2014 — now oversees more than 10,000 bikes across bike-sharing programs in 10 U.S. cities and recorded 14 million rides last year, and it still isn’t profitable, says a source close to the company. Presumably, making electric bikes will be even more costly.
And there are shenanigans. According to O’Sullivan, the founders of one dockless bike-share startup met earlier with Rzepecki under the guise of wanting to fund SoBi, which has reached profitability off $7 million in funding to date and is now looking to raise substantially more. They then used their findings to raise money for a new startup of their own.
Asked about the claim, Rzepecki declines to confirm it, saying instead, “A lot of people are entering the market and maybe being a bit more opportunistic in trying to compete. For me, it’s generally a good sign that we have an environment now that’s being capitalized, even if not everyone has the same intentions that we have.”
It’s almost like the second coming of Uber. At least, people seem to hope that’s the case.
“I do think Uber’s bad-boy behavior has emboldened some to also break laws and charge ahead of social consequences,” says O’Sullivan. “They got away with it, and they got rewarded for it financially, despite hundreds of millions of dollars in settlements to state regulators and elsewhere.
“Until Uber came along, I never thought it could possibly have worked. Now others may see it as a model worth copying.”
Additional reporting by (and valuable insights from) Lora Kolodny.
Microsoft researchers were working late into the hours the Friday before this holiday weekend looking to address yesterday’s Shadow Brokers dump of Windows exploits. In a message sent to TechCrunch overnight, the company said it has addressed the issue for systems running Windows 7 and later.
“We’ve investigated and confirmed that the exploits disclosed by the Shadow Brokers have already been addressed by previous updates to our supported products,” the company wrote. “Customers with up-to-date software are already protected.”
Microsoft also issued a blog post on the subject, noting that, as the company worked to verify the exploits, it discovered that nine were already been addressed by previously issued patches. Microsoft Security Response Center, naturally, recommends that users keep their machines up to date to ensure that they’re protected.
There are three additional exploits not addressed by the aforementioned patches, though MS notes that they’re not capable of reproducing on machines running Windows 7 and above or recent versions of Exchange. Of course, that leaves potential vulnerability for users still clinging to older versions of the operating system, as they’re no longer supported.
Once again, Microsoft’s response would no doubt be: upgrade to ensure you’re protected.
The dump was the second from Shadow Brokers this week, but the first that contained major exploits in several months. The exploits were believed to have originated from the National Security Agency as part of its work to monitor money flow in the SWIFT interbank messaging system. The NSA has been roundly criticized for not warning companies sooner that the tools had leaked, though it has yet to address any potential connection to the leak.
And indeed, in a separate statement Microsoft confirmed the Agency hadn’t revealed potential vulnerabilities prior to yesterday’s mad dash to address the leaked exploits. “At this time,” said the spokesperson, “other than reporters, no individual or organization has contacted us in relation to the materials released by Shadow Brokers.”
Advertisement		




The European Union is in the process of reforming copyright laws that date back to 2001, as part of a wider strategy to establish a Digital Single Market across the 28 Member States of the bloc, aiming to break down regional barriers to e-commerce.
Earlier this year an agreement was reached on ending geoblocks on travelers’ digital subscriptions by 2018. And EU consumers are set to say adios to mobile roaming fees from this June. So far, so good, you could say.
But when the European Commission’s draft proposals for digital copyright reform were published last September, they were criticized by tech companies as regressive, and by copyright reformists as a missed opportunity to modernize ill-fitting laws to make them fit for purpose in the internet age.
There have also been warnings of the potential impact on startups of the copyright reform, although it’s fair to say that the loudest complaints are coming from big U.S. tech companies that appear to be core targets in the European Commission’s draft proposal, on account of the size and power of their content-sharing platforms.
In the supporters’ camp, EU sources argue that the Commission’s proposals will help European creative and copyright-centered industries flourish in a Digital Single Market, and European authors reach new audiences — while making regional works widely accessible to EU citizens and across borders.
“The aim is to ensure a good balance between copyright and relevant public policy objectives such as education, research, innovation and the needs of persons with disabilities,” one EU source told us. “We trust that the discussions in the Council and the European Parliament will aim to maintain this ambition and will facilitate access to and use of copyright-protected content online and ensuring a well-functioning copyright marketplace.”
At the launch of the draft proposals last year, Andrus Ansip, VP for the Digital Single Market, summed up the balance the EC is seeking to strike thus: “Europe’s creative content should not be locked-up, but it should also be highly protected, in particular to improve the remuneration possibilities for our creators.”
Neighboring rights for news
Among the most controversial elements of the proposals are an extra copyright provision for using snippets of journalistic content online — a so-called “neighboring right” for news sites, which critics describe as an attack on the hyperlink.
This could apply to link previews generated by news aggregators like Google News, for example, or social network sites like Facebook linking out to news articles. But there are also suggestions it may disproportionately impact startups in the news aggregation and/or media monitoring space.
Although EU sources emphasize there is no requirement that publishers levy a charge for their content — rather, it is up to publishers to decide on conditions for use of their content, with the argument being that the neighboring right would give publishers a stronger legal basis to negotiate with third parties.
A similar law was enacted in Germany in 2013, but uncertainty remains about what actually constitutes a snippet — and local publishers ended up offering Google free consent to display their snippets after they saw traffic fall substantially when Google stopped showing their content rather than pay for using them.
Spain also enacted a similar ancillary copyright law for publishers in 2014, but its implementation required publishers to charge for using their snippets — leading Google to permanently close its news aggregation service in the country. A subsequent economic study found the significant drop in traffic associated with the shuttering of Google News in Spain mostly affected smaller, niche or newcomer publishers. But even large media entities there have come out against the law.
Content monitoring
Another highly controversial portion of the copyright proposal is a requirement on websites that host large amounts of user-generated content to monitor user behavior to identify and prevent copyright infringement. So, in other words, to shift from reviewing reported content after it has been published to proactively scanning at the point of upload to try to prevent copyright infringements happening in the first place.
Critics complain this approach would compel private companies to police the internet on behalf of rights holders. They also suggest it’s a surveillance risk and that requiring indiscriminate monitoring of citizens’ online activity is disproportionate and therefore potentially violates fundamental EU privacy rights.
Countering these criticisms, EU sources emphasize that the Commission’s proposals are specifically targeted at services that store and give access to “large amounts of copyright protected content” — pointing out that such platforms have become important players on the content market.
“Due to the nature and significance of these services for the distribution of copyright protected content, they are required to take certain measures to allow a better functioning of the content market,” one source told us. 
Measures taken must also be “proportionate,” and should not be “unnecessarily complicated or costly for the service providers,” according to the source. Nor are specific technologies or solutions imposed.
“It is for the services to find the appropriate and proportionate measures, which could be developed either internally or using for example third party services, as done by a number of services already today,” the source added, arguing that the proposal “strikes a balance between different interests.”
“It imposes obligations on platforms with large amounts of copyright protected content, which can be expected, due to their role on the content market, to have certain responsibilities. It also introduces safeguards for businesses and users. It does not introduce a general obligation to monitor content.”.text .crunchreport h3 {color:#fff}

		Latest Crunch Report 







Element Raises $102 Million | Crunch Report





Watch More Episodes



Text and data mining
The copyright reform also proposed to establish a new EU-wide exception for text and data mining — but only for research institutions conducting scientific research, which has raised questions over whether commercial data-mining activity might suddenly be considered to lie outside the law.
Responding to this concern, EU sources argue that the proposal does not regulate or extend access to data for any stakeholders, nor does it change the current situation for other users of text and data mining — adding that these users “can continue exercising their activities under the same conditions as today.”
There has also been disappointment among copyright reformists that the EC has not sought to harmonize rules across the EU to recognize and put beyond legal doubt digital remix culture, such as the ability to create GIFs, memes, supercuts etc. — types of digital content which may currently, at least technically, be copyright infringements in some EU member states.
The European Parliament has been debating the copyright reform proposals for the past few months, as it formulates its official reaction to the draft proposals and seeks to push for specific changes. And this week members of the European Parliament submitted their amendments to the Commission’s proposals, as part of that process.


I’ve submitted my amendments to the #copyright reform. At least 78 MEPs have tabled amendments against #Ancillarycopyright to #SaveTheLink! pic.twitter.com/VKINqfFIqe
— Julia Reda (@Senficon) April 13, 2017



TechCrunch spoke to MEP Julia Reda, a long-running proponent for copyright reform — who has called for bold and ambitious reforms, yet instead finds herself fighting a set of proposals that she argues could usher in additional restrictions on web users — while also disadvantaging regional startups.
TC: What was the original impetus for the EU’s digital copyright reform, and what did the Commission eventually propose?Reda: When EU first announced the copyright reform it was saying that the purpose was to really make life easier for everybody — businesses who wanted to scale up throughout the entire EU but also for citizens or consumers who wanted to access different services across borders. And what would be needed for that would be a more European copyright. We’re currently stuck with 28 different national laws that are often contradictory, and that’s often causing problems in the online environment. So when the Commission came out with this proposal there was very little of this ambition to be found. There are a few exceptions that the Commission is proposing to make mandatory across the EU when it comes to teaching — so use of digital content in teaching, and preservation copies being made by libraries and archives, but this is really — while it’s a step in the right direction, it doesn’t really do much more for the market.

At the same time, when it comes to the measures that are proposed on the marketplace I think they are actively harmful, so on the one hand you have a provision that would force any company or not even company any host provider that is basically giving users the possibility to upload content on their own an obligation to monitor what the users are doing — and this is not only extremely costly for all the providers, it could be anyone from Wikipedia to GitHub to photo communities, but it’s also a violation of fundamental rights. In the past the European Court of Justice has made it very clear that member states are not allowed to impose a general obligation on internet providers to monitor what users are doing. And this is exactly what this law would do. But this is the one big criticism that I think is relevant when it comes to how this would affect the internet ecosystem.
The other one is the proposal to extend copyright for press publishers and allow them to ask for licence fees for the reproduction of even the smallest snippets of content — so, for example, the headline of a news article. This directly interferes with the possibility to link to content on the internet because of course if you’re linking to something you want the link to be meaningful, and at the very least to include the title of the article you’re linking to.
TC: How have we arrived here? Who most stands to benefit from the most controversial proposals?Reda: I think both of these proposals are examples of really blatant industry lobbying. So in the case of these content monitoring provisions, this has been very clearly pushed for by the music industry. And it’s actually a parallel development to the discussions that are going on in the U.S. So the music industry has quite successfully convinced a lot of lawmakers that they basically need to be paid more by YouTube. The entire purpose of this article is really to settle a fight between music labels and YouTube. The problem with this proposal is of course that its effects would go far beyond YouTube. And, in fact, probably YouTube would be one of the only hosting websites that could easily comply with this website because they already have a content monitoring facility in place. So even though it’s intended to strengthen the position of the music industry when it’s negotiating with YouTube, probably the collateral damage on other hosting websites would be a lot higher. But this is simply not something that the Commission has been thinking about when it was drafting this law. It’s very clear that they had a very specific type of website and a very specific type of content in mind, where such automated filtering may be more realistically possible.
Because if you’re trying to find a music recording, at least technologically this is comparatively simple because a music recording is more or less unique. But copyrighted content is a lot more than that. And if, for example, software would have to detect any type of copyright infringement — which is basically what this law is saying — the technology for that doesn’t even exist. So it could be things like being able to transfer to detect translations of a text that can be a copyright infringement, or pictures of a sculpture from different angles. It can be compositions rather than just musical recordings. So it’s really a huge technological challenge and it’s very clear from the fact that in all its reporting documents the Commission is only talking about the music industry that this is really what they had in mind. And there has been quite clear lobbying from the industry for this.
And in the case of the extra copyright for press publishers, it’s not even the publishing industry in general that’s in favor of this. It’s a relatively small number of — in particular two German publishing houses — that want to have this. And everybody else is a bit more puzzled by it. But because we had a German commissioner at the time that this proposal was being produced, they had very easy access to the highest levels of the Commission. But there are a lot of publishers who are actually quite critical of this proposal because they are saying that being able to be found on news aggregators and being able to be linked to by people on social media is absolutely crucial to their business model and to finding their audience. So it’s not like the entire publishing industry is in favor of this either.
[In Germany an ancillary copyright] was passed into law in 2013, and since then there has been court battles going on about what it actually means. Like how many words are you allowed to use before it becomes an infringement? And none of these questions has been solved by now. But a number of startups who have been doing media monitoring and stuff like that have had to go out of business because of the legal uncertainty, and they just can’t get funding — if they don’t know whether what they are doing is legal. And they’re probably not going to find out for several years.
TC: Setting aside the problem of a lack of ambition in the reform, it sounds like it has been overly broadly drafted –- could the Commission fix what it has, or do you think it should be scrapped entirely?
Reda: I think it should be scrapped because there’s not one problem with the proposal but several ones. So I think it’s a fundamentally bad idea to write content recognition technology into law. Not just because it’s extremely invasive but because it systematically ignores users’ rights. So the way that copyright is designed in Europe is that we have exclusive rights, and then have a list of specific exceptions under which users are allowed to use copyrighted content. So, for example, in most member states of the EU you are allowed to use works for purposes of quotation, within certain limits of course. The technology is not able to distinguish between a lawful use of copyrighted content under an exception, and an unlawful use –- so it simply takes down every use of the content that is not licensed. And this of course leads to takedowns of lots of EU content and it systematically undermines the purpose of the exception, which is usually the protection of freedom of expression. So I think as long as this proposal talks about forcing anyone to use content recognition technologies it’s systematically undermining the copyright exceptions and it’s basically throwing the copyright system even more out of balance. So I find it very difficult to imagine how this could be fixed.
I think it’s a fundamentally bad idea to write content recognition technology into law. Not just because it’s extremely invasive but because it systematically ignores users’ rights. 
The other problem is that it’s trying to misrepresent the legal status of hosting providers in the EU. Because at the moment, if a user uploads something to a platform it’s primarily the user who is responsible for it, so they are the ones who have to check whether the content they are uploading is legal and so on — and this make sense because otherwise it wouldn’t be possible to run a platform that has a lot of user-uploaded content. If you had to check every YouTube video before it’s uploaded or every picture before it can be used on Wikipedia, these platforms simply wouldn’t work the way that they work today. And so that’s why there is a limited liability for these host providers that, no, they don’t have to pro-actively check everything that is uploaded. But in return they have to take down content once they’re informed, or once they learn that there’s something illegal there. And they’re doing this. So I think that as long as the proposal first of all doesn’t recognize this legal regime and this limited liability, and at the same time speaks about content recognition, I don’t see how it can be fixed.
TC: At the moment in the EU there’s a lot of political pressure on social platforms to get better and faster at taking down problem content such as hate speech, terrorist propaganda and child abuse imagery — including governments talking about wanting the tech companies to build tools to help automate this process. Might this sort of thinking be feeding into the Commission’s proposals on copyright, too?
Reda: I think the problems associated with copyright infringement, with hate speech and with images of child abuse, are fundamentally different. So, first of all, with hate speech, the biggest problem is that according to numbers by the Council of Europe, only 15 percent of hate speech is even illegal in the first place. So the companies are often being asked to take down content that is technically legal. And then of course it’s extremely difficult because then the problem is not that the companies are not complying with their obligations under the limited liability regime, but the problem is that the laws are not fit for purpose to actually address hate speech –- so there we have a problem, and it’s the problem with the criminal provisions in the member states and not with the enforcement of the law by the platforms.
Then in the case of images of child abuse, it’s relatively clear — the legal situation is essentially the same all around the world. These images are illegal to spread and therefore if you have an exact copy of the same content then it’s very easy for a platform to say this is illegal, this needs to be taken down. And there I think the use of automated recognition of these images can be justified. And then it can be taken down at the source. The problem is this doesn’t work for copyright because with the copyright exceptions, just because something is using copyrighted content does not mean that it is actually infringing. And the problem is of course if you start putting in place infrastructure for one type of content — perhaps it’s justified with terrorism — then there will invariably be a strong push to use it for all types of other content where it is not justified. And I think — well, there are lots of examples for this — but I think for copyrighted content these automated tools simply undermine copyright exceptions. And they are not proportionate. I mean we are not talking about violent crimes here in the way that terrorism or child abuse are. We’re talking about something that is a really widespread phenomenon and that’s dealt with by providing attractive legal offers to people. And not by treating them as criminals.

Crunchbase






				European Commission			


 
Founded
1950


Overview
The European Commission is the EU's executive body and represents the interests of Europe as a whole (as opposed to the interests of individual countries). The Commission's job is to represent and uphold the interests of the EU as a whole. It is headed by 28 Commissioners, 1 per country. The European Commission (EC) is the 'engine room' of the EU. It is one of 3 main EU institutions; the other two …


Location

Brussels, 11



Categories

Service Industry, 																													Trading Platform, 																													Government 


Website

http://ec.europa.eu/index_en.htm 


Full profile for European Commission 



 



				European Union			


 
Founded
2002


Overview
The European Union occasionally makes investments. For more about them, see [their Wikipedia page](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/European_Union).


Location

London, H9



Categories

Education, 																													Universities, 																													Information Services 


Website

http://europa.eu 


Full profile for European Union 



 



				YouTube			


 
Founded
2005


Overview
YouTube is a video-sharing website created in February 2005 by three former [PayPal](/company/paypal) employees: [Chad Hurley](/person/chad-hurley), [Steve Chen](/person/steve-chen) and [Jawed Karim](/person/jawed-karim).

YouTube enables users to upload, view and share videos. It uses [Adobe Flash](/product/adobe-flash) video and HTML5 technology to display a wide variety of user-generated video …


Location

San Bruno, CA



Categories

Internet, 																													Video, 																													Music 


Website

http://www.youtube.com/ 


Full profile for YouTube 









TC: How do you believe startups might be disadvantaged by the current proposals for the EU copyright reforms? Big companies like Google have some clear risks but also big resources to respond to new laws. What specific risks do you see for startups?
Reda: There’s a certain cognitive dissonance among a lot of the regulators in Europe because on the one hand they are kind of upset about the fact there are so few European startups and they’re wondering how we can better compete with the U.S., but at the same time they’re putting in place laws that are targeted at the big U.S. tech giants but that actually end up hitting the domestic startups a lot harder because they have to comply with pretty strict regulations from the start that they’re not equipped to actually deal with, and that often hampers their possibility to get funding.
I mean something that an investor certainly does not want to have is legal uncertainty. And a big flaw of the proposals that are put on the table by the Commission is that they are unclear. If you took, for example, the neighboring rights for press publisher by its word you would have to conclude that taking a single word, or even a single letter from a publication would be an infringement because, unlike copyright, neighboring rights do not have a threshold of originality. But at the same time, of course, common sense dictates that you cannot have an exclusive right on a single word or a single letter. So it’s clear that interpreting what exactly this law protects would be up to the courts. And probably the courts in different countries would come to different conclusions. So this is a huge source of legal uncertainty and it’s particularly hitting those who are trying to create new and innovative business models. And I think this is quite tragic. It’s precisely startups that have the possibility to actually find the new business models that the cultural sector so dearly needs. It’s just that the large incumbents — such as those two publishing houses that are behind the press publishers’ rights, they don’t have a particular interest in having new competitors on the market that might be more efficient at bringing the news to people. So they have a clear interest in introducing this law. Even if they don’t think that they’re actually going to get any money from Google for using their snippets — it’s simply about making it more difficult for new market entrants to compete with them.
For the neighboring right [the biggest impact will be on] news startups, everybody who is dealing with news analysis. We had a couple of examples of startups like that that are, for example, trying to find ways to detect fake news, or to give people different sources or propose different sources to try to corroborate a story. Things like that would be extremely difficult with the neighboring right. It would also affect companies that are engaged in big data mining, because there is a new exception in the proposal that explicitly allows text and data mining for research organizations but not for anybody else. So this is an area where it’s currently quite unclear whether big data mining constitutes copyright infringement in the first place. But if you explicitly allow it for some then it kind of implies that it’s forbidden for others.
And I think the third kind of startup that is particularly affected by this is any kind of platform for sharing user-generated content. For example, we had an example of a Belgian startup called MuseScore, which is quite a popular platform for people to exchange sheet music — and it’s usually people simply sharing their own compositions. But of course there is no software that could automatically detect copyright infringements in sheet music because it’s not simply somebody copying the sheet music one on one. But rather whenever a composition to which the person who uploads the sheet music doesn’t have the rights, is included there this would constitute a copyright infringement so you would have to somehow technologically make the leap from a particular melody to that melody being expressed in sheet music and that technology is not available.
TC: Could this reform mean companies using large amounts of data for building AI models might technically be committing a copyright infringement — if they’re using copyrighted data to train a machine learning algorithm?Reda: Yeah, if they’re, for example, learning to detect cats in pictures and using a bunch of cat pictures from the internet to train their algorithms, then the argument goes that by copying these images they are using a copyrighted work and they would need a license for that. In most countries it’s kind of clarified either that this kind of use is fair use or there’s specific exceptions for text and data mining — for example Japan has introduced a text and data-mining exception that clarifies that it’s not a copyright infringement. But there’s also the question should this be covered by copyright in the first place? Because you are not using the work as an intellectual creation you are just using the data in the work. For example, if you’re mining text and you’re looking for particular patterns, you’re not really interested in what the text means, you’re interested in how often a particular word is used or something like that. So arguably this is not actually a use of the work as such but rather just of the data that’s carrying this work. So if we introduce a text and data-mining exception only for certain organizations and startups are not included in that, then we’re basically saying that any kind of startup that if you’re using copyrighted content for training their AI would be performing a copyright infringement.
TC: On the flip side, you could argue that while algorithms may not be using the work itself there is a kind of value exchange going on, based on extracting something useful (and potentially profitable) from the data…Reda: Copyright law was never designed to be based on whether or not you are commercially benefiting from the use or not — I mean, if this were the case then all non-commercial use of copyrighted works should be legal, but it’s not. It’s always based on whether or not you’re performing certain protected uses such as making a copy. And in the digital world you just need to make copies a lot more than in the analogue world. I think that would have been perfectly legal in an analogue content — such as reading a book and counting the number of times a certain word is used is not a copyright-relevant act in any way. And just when you’re using a computer to do the same thing, then it suddenly is.
The other issue is that it only makes sense to require people to get a license if it’s actually possible to get a license. But how would this work? If somebody’s just scraping loads of images off social media, for example, the rights holders of those images are spread all over the world — there are millions of them, and if you actually contacted them and said “hey I want to use your cat picture that you posted on Twitter for training my AI, can you please given me a license,” they would not know what the hell you’re talking about. The transaction cost of actually trying to do this legally would be so high that it would simply not pay to do this kind of research anymore. So basically by saying this is something that requires a license you are guaranteeing that it is simply not going to be done legally. But you’re not actually creating new business opportunities for anyone.
TC: I haven’t personally heard many European startups voicing concerns about the EU copyright reform — do you think there’s an awareness problem here? Or maybe they don’t yet realize the potential implications down the line?
Reda: I have a somewhat different impression. Because when we invited some startups to come to Brussels to speak about their experience it was extremely easy to find startups that were concerned about this, and had very specific concerns about either the neighboring right or the content monitoring. Of course, if you’re a startup founder you probably don’t have the resources to lobby in the same way that a large company does because you’re basically spending all of your time on developing your product, but nevertheless there are a number of startups that are actually coming to Brussels and talking to policymakers. They have formed a business association — Allied for Startups — which is also organizing their activities. And they focus quite a lot on copyright — so for example Allied for Startups has done this startup manifesto — scale up manifesto — that they have presented to the European Commission where they are extremely critical of these proposals. So of course I don’t expect every startup founder in the EU to know about this because it is still quite a complex legislative process. But I wouldn’t share the impression that they’re not concerned about this. My impression is more that if they know about it they are concerned.
TC: What arguments are you hearing from larger tech companies — like Apple, Google, Facebook, Spotify — about the copyright reform?
Reda: Apple, I have to say, has not been particularly active on this. And also Google. They’re mostly active through their business associations. So it’s extremely difficult to say what exactly is the position of which particular players. Google was invited to one of the hearings that we had in the legal affairs committee. And they were basically spending their time explaining how Content ID works, what they’re already doing voluntarily, and kind of also explaining the limits of what the technology can do — so, for example, they were quite open about the fact that it’s not capable of interpreting copyright exceptions and limitations.
Generally I would say the tech companies have been most concerned about the content-monitoring provision. Because it really affects a very broad range of companies, where the neighboring right is more targeted at a specific kind of company that is active in the news sector in some way.
I met with Apple this week but they were more concerned about the Electronic Communications Code, so the telecoms review that is going on at the moment. They did have concerns about the content-monitoring provision… I’ve spoken to SoundCloud and they are really quite concerned about this, and they were quite open in saying that if this kind of provision had existed when they started out, they would have never managed to survive. And nevertheless, they are kind of a licensed service nowadays and are able to work with the rights holders. So they’ve been quite active on this… I’ve met with Facebook at some point. And I mean they were just reiterating their concerns about the content monitoring and the neighboring right. It’s certainly on their radar.
I think generally [the big tech companies are] trying to emphasize that they’re already doing a lot of things on a voluntarily basis.
TC: You’ve personally been pushing for copyright reform for years — and made it your legislative priority. Why is that? And what would you really like to see happen? What would be your ideal copyright reform?
Reda: I think that copyright reform is absolutely crucial for access to knowledge and empowerment of people. I think the cultural sector is just one small element of this. I think where the negative effects of the copyright system are much more apparent is the academic sector, where basically you have a small number of extremely powerful publishing companies that have profit margins of upwards of 30 percent, that are basically living off getting articles for free from researchers at universities and then selling them back to the universities at astronomical prices. And I think this is an extremely unhealthy system, it’s contributing to global inequality because basically universities in developing countries and increasingly also in industrialized countries are not able to afford access to the content that is actually necessary to get a good education. So this is really what my motivation behind this copyright reform is.
Copies that are made in a digital environment should not be treated the same way as copies in the analogue age.
I’ve worked as a student assistant at a university — and I know firsthand the problems that exist with simply being able to access the knowledge that has been produced with public money because of the way that the copyright system is set up. What I would really like to see — I think where a huge mistake has been made in translating the copyright system to the digital world is that copies that are made in a digital environment should not be treated the same way as copies in the analogue age. If you have 20,000 copies of a digital book in your basement it’s very clear that your intention is to distribute them and so it’s kind of a short cut of the law to simply make the copies themselves illegal, and not just the distribution. But with digital technology that’s completely different because any kind of use of digital technologies requires the making of copies and it is not implied that just because you’re making copies your intention is to give those copies to somebody else.
Just to give you an example, a friend of mine has a digital hearing aid — a cochlear implant which is basically implanted into his brain and it translates an audio signal into a digital signal, and that’s why he’s able to hear again. And if there were no exceptions to copyright that allow for example this copy from analogue to digital then he would be committing a copyright infringement every time he’s listening to music. And this obviously doesn’t make any sense. So what I would really like to see would be a reform that simply does not take digital copies as the basis for what is considered to be a copyright infringement anymore.
TC: What do you see as the likely result of the copyright reform process — are you hopeful of being able to make substantial changes to the proposals?Reda: I’m quite optimistic that we’re going to be able to defeat the neighboring right. It’s a wildly unpopular measure wherever it has been introduced in Germany and in Spain. The parliament has already voted against it several times. I’m of course concerned about the really intense lobbying from some publishers who are trying to shift the position of the parliament. But so far most of the parliament reports that have come out, including the Legal committee, they have all been proposing to get rid of the neighboring right.
I am more pessimistic when it comes to the content-monitoring provision because there it’s extremely difficult to change this proposal into something that is not harmful. It’s a very complex ecosystem and I think not everybody is aware of the problems associated with content recognition technologies. And as you were saying, it’s kind of mixed up with the discussions around terrorism and hate speech. And I think that’s always a very bad starting point for having a really targeted copyright reform that it’s not mixing up a lot of different issues. So there I’m a lot more skeptical.
TC: What happens next? What’s the timeline from here?Reda: The European parliament has presented its report, and the deadline for amendments to that is actually today [last Wednesday]. So after everybody has tabled their amendments the person who wrote the report, the rapporteur, is going to take those amendments and form them into compromises. Then we’re going to vote on it in the committee, probably in June or July, and then it will go to the plenary vote and to negotiations with the Council. So a final text could be expected maybe in a year or so.
TC: So there’s still a chance for substantial amendments?
Reda: Basically so far the proposal from the Commission is only the starting point. And nobody is bound by what the Commission has proposed. And actually Council as well — there are a lot of national governments who are completely unconvinced by the neighboring right, and are asking a lot of critical questions, so it’s very possible that we can get rid of these proposals if we’re keeping up the public pressure and it’s convincing also national governments that this is also not in their interest.
This interview has been lightly edited and condensed for clarity.


For years we’ve been hearing about the promise of customer experience management, the notion that you can understand your customer at a highly detailed level and serve them the content, products, services and even ads that matter (or at least make sense) to them.
Today’s marketing software is bringing that idea closer to reality.
But technology is only part of the brand-consumer interaction story. Just because you understand your customer through the lens of their online activities doesn’t mean that translates into smart and insightful interactions in person. We need to take that knowledge and use it in every step of the customer journey. Unfortunately, as we’ve learned, that doesn’t always happen.
A matter of trust
For Exhibit A, I give you United Airlines and its PR disaster this week. The company not only blew it with the customer they so unceremoniously had dragged off a plane, they potentially upended their relationship with loyal and potential future customers alike.
The United case showed that having technology available for learning about our customers’ wants and needs in an online context isn’t enough. Companies have to learn to use that knowledge for in-person engagements too. (Of course, a little common sense wouldn’t have hurt, either.)
When you look at successful companies, they have a core understanding that the customer is at the center of every decision and action they make, regardless of where the interaction takes place. In his annual letter to shareholders this week, Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos noted that “obsessive customer focus” is the only thing that stands between a company and inevitable brand demise.
Salesforce  is another company that obsesses over customer satisfaction. Chairman and CEO Marc Benioff is constantly talking about a company’s core values. He says one of those core values has to be trust. If you don’t have trust, in his view, it’s impossible to do business.
It’s pretty clear that United wasn’t thinking about that in their infamous customer incident this week, and, while their example was particularly glaring, brands could still take it as a cautionary tale to know your customer and use that knowledge in every interaction, whether online or in person.
Tech is only part of the answer
Marketing technology vendors are in the business of helping you understand the customer at an extremely detailed level. Salesforce is a good example of a company that sells software to focus on every aspect of the customer relationship — from sales to marketing to service — and is constantly talking about giving that customer the best possible experience.
In a presentation in Washington, DC earlier this month, Salesforce’s Benioff spoke about the increasing number of signals coming in from connected devices that can help brands understand their customer better. “When all these things are connected, everything pivots back to the customer,” he said.
He’s right of course, and companies like his and others are trying to help you get there, but it’s not always easy putting that data to work or getting it in the hands of employees at the moment they are connecting with that customer. Technology is just one piece of the puzzle.
Salesforce is far from alone when it comes to selling you software to help you have better and more informed interactions with your customers. Just this week, in fact, we saw Sprinklr, a company that up until now has been focused on helping companies understand customers’ social signals, launch a new platform called Experience Cloud.
A few weeks before that we saw Adobe release a marketing platform with the same name. Both product sets have a slightly different focus, but they want to help their users manage the all-important customer experience. That means understanding what customers want and giving it to them, maybe without them even asking.
Empower your employees

Related Articles
Salesforce Einstein AI can generate models automatically
Salesforce acquires Sequence to build out its UX design services
NASA and Amazon will stream from space in 4K for the first time on April 26
Amazon quietly launches its own social media influencer program into beta

As we learned this week, however, the technology is just a starting point, and having some information in a database can only get you so far. At some point that customer is going to walk into your store or onto your airplane, and you need to be ready to carry that customer focus to the in-person relationship. You need to take that knowledge, put it in the hands of your employees and empower them to make reasonable decisions when dealing with your precious customers.
Companies like Amazon and Salesforce strive to maintain a customer-centric approach because their CEOs understand at a fundamental level that you can never take that brand-customer connection for granted. When you do anything to damage that relationship, as United did this week, you risk shattering the trust you worked so hard to build.
It’s about a total commitment to keeping customers happy. Marketing technology vendors tend to get that because it’s a big part of what they’re selling, but it takes more than throwing technology at the problem. It requires giving your employees the training and knowledge to put that to work in real life, too.

Featured Image: Boris Austin/Getty Images
Uber plans to close its UberRUSH courier service to restaurant deliveries, according to a report in Quartz. Instead, restaurants will be encouraged to use UberEATS, the company’s food delivery service.
The move is noteworthy because restaurants were one of UberRUSH’s key clientele when it launched in October 2015 as a competitor to Postmates, Delivery.com and other on-demand delivery services.
In fact, Quartz’s sources — two Uber employees — said restaurant deliveries made up most of UberRUSH’s orders. Clients have been told that it will stop handling restaurant orders after May 8, but continue to serve retail businesses like grocery stores and florists.
One of Uber’s reasons for the switch is that UberEATS and UberRUSH rely on the same pool of drivers as the company’s ridesharing services. When deliveries were at a peak, such as during dinnertime, the shortage of drivers sometimes triggered surge pricing on UberX. Streamlining what UberEATS and UberRUSH handles will make it easier for Uber to increase the number of drivers who do deliveries without cannibalizing its passenger service (drivers can do both, but must sign up separately).
TechCrunch has contacted Uber for comment.

Featured Image: Jaap Arriens/NurPhoto/Getty Images
Today’s Stories 

Watch the first trailer for ‘Star Wars: The Last Jedi’
Facebook runs full page newspaper ads against fake news in France ahead of the election
Apple gets permit to test autonomous cars in California

Credits
Written by: Tito Hamze, John MannesHosted by: Tito HamzeFilmed & Teleprompter by: Joe ZolnoskiEdited: Chris Gates
Notes:

I don’t know what to wear on Crunch Report (It’s a hard decision and I suck at dressing myself). If you are a startup and want to me to wear something mail me an XL T-shirt and I’ll wear it in an episode. I’m not going to mention the company on the shirt in the episode but it will be there. No offensive stuff, it’s totally at my discretion if I wear it. Mail it to me. Thanks <3 Ok, bye.

TechCrunch C/O Tito Hamze
410 Townsend street
Suite 100
San Francisco Ca. 94107
If you have 20 minutes to spare before you begin your weekend — or after, for that matter — you might enjoy this short film about a small team of content moderators in India. Thousands of such people make sure you don’t come across gore and porn while on social or dating sites, so the least you can do is see what their job is like!

Related Articles
Facebook again under fire for spreading illegal content
Facebook spares humans by fighting offensive photos with AI
Dear @Jack, I don't love Twitter anymore
The film, by Adrian Chen and Ciaran Cassidy, is more meditative than informative, but you may consider that the better option after you see a few of the images these poor folks have to pore through daily. On that note, be aware that there are some very NOT SAFE FOR WORK images displayed, for the most part in the background and not in focus, but still.
Something worth considering is that this type of work is pretty stressful, and people in these jobs get rotated out regularly to avoid burnout or even psychological damage. Companies like Microsoft and Google can afford to offer extensive counseling and monitor their moderators closely, but that’s not always the case. Here, these people are taking a rather horrifying and demanding job as their very first one — whether that’s heroic or foolish I can’t really say.
Still, I was inspired by the two managers, one of whom points out that without teams like this, the internet would become a “porn factory,” and the other, training a new group, likens it to an essential service — sacrificing their well-being so that some entitled chump in America can do their dating for free and not get spammed and complain bitterly about it. Well, he didn’t put it that way, but that’s how it works out.
Want to attend Disrupt NY 2017 but missed the Early-Bird ticket deadline? You’re in luck!
We’re giving you another week to get your hands on these deeply discounted Disrupt tickets, so you now have until Friday, April 21 to secure your spot at the best startup show in New York. Early-Bird tickets will set you back just $1,995 apiece, a full $1,000 off what they’ll cost at the door.
You can get your Early-Bird tickets here. Go ahead, we’ll wait.
Here’s what that Early-Bird ticket gets you: In addition to saving you a ton of cash, that Early-Bird ticket gets you an all-access pass to everything that makes Disrupt so great. You’ll get to hear from our incredible lineup of speakers in a series of lectures and interviews that take place throughout the conference. You can check out some of our speakers to get a sense of just how amazing the folks are who come to Disrupt.
In addition to hearing from some of the best and brightest minds in the industry, you’ll get to walk through Startup Alley and Hardware Alley, and connect with hundreds of promising early-stage companies that will be demoing their products and services to passers-by.
Then, you’ll take in the Startup Battlefield competition, a fierce competition in which a few dozen startups pitch a panel of judges in the hopes of winning $50,000, the Disrupt Cup and the attention of the tech community at large.
Finally, what better way to unwind than by having a cocktail or two at the many parties that take place during the week of Disrupt?
Of course, you’re not going to do any of it without a ticket, and your wallet is going to be super sad if you don’t take advantage of the opportunity to save $1,000 on your Disrupt ticket before prices jump after April 21.
Don’t make your wallet sad. Get your tickets today.
Disrupt NY 2017 takes place May 15-17 at Manhattan’s Pier 36. We can’t wait to see you all there.
Our sponsors help make Disrupt happen. If you are interested in learning more about sponsorship opportunities, please contact our sponsorship team by filling out this form.
Simple, the online banking service that promised to be a better alternative to big banks like Chase or Citibank, is falling short of some users’ expectations. This time, it comes as a result of the sudden and surprising notice customers received alerting them that their accounts would be closed next month.
On Thursday, Simple sent notice to a small number of customers with the subject line “We have to close your account on May 13.” The notice went on to explain that the closures were the result of a massive account migration the company has been working on for the last several months. Those users wouldn’t make the cut before Simple’s contract with its former partner bank ended, leaving them out in the cold.
Simple launched its banking service in 2012, offering a forward-thinking and tech-enabled alternative to traditional brick-and-mortar banking options. With a slick web UI and mobile apps for managing customers’ money, Simple set itself apart from the monolithic banking products of the day.
In reality, the service sometimes fell short of some users’ expectations, due to occasional outages and glitches that plagued users even after it was acquired by BBVA for $117 million three years ago.
Simple’s acquisition by BBVA and its migration to the Spanish banking group’s infrastructure is the main reason behind the account closure notices issued yesterday. Until recently, Simple relied on The Bancorp Bank as its underlying partner bank where accounts were held.
Internally, the plan was always to move accounts over to BBVA Compass, and Simple announced the transition about a year ago. Last September, Simple began sending the first of its transition letters to customers, and has been migrating accounts from The Bancorp to BBVA Compass ever since. Rather than try to move everyone all at once, it did so in waves so that it could handle customer service requests as they came up.
According to a Simple representative, the company sorted customers by account activity and complexity to ensure the migration flow worked through a wide range of scenarios. Simple also says it invited customers with the most complex accounts to move earlier so that it could work through any issues that surfaced.
Unfortunately the company wasn’t able to get to everyone before its deal with The Bancorp ended and it would be forced to close the remaining accounts.


Seriously @i2pi @shamir_k closing my @simple account, on a product I actually use :( Realize this isn't likely you, but more @thebancorp SMH pic.twitter.com/ZCljUsjBfD
— arfrank (@arfrank) April 13, 2017



We first became aware of the issue after Aaron Frank, a Simple customer and founder of YC-backed credit card startup Final, posted his notice to Twitter yesterday. But he’s not alone: Other Simple users have taken to Twitter to complain about the way the company is handling account closures.
Frank told me that he was aware of Simple’s account migration to BBVA long before hearing from the company yesterday, and even requested back in January an update on when he would be invited to migrate his account. In an emailed response from the company, he received the following note:

Hey Aaron,
We are sending customers emails about moving there [sic] account in batches, which is why you haven’t received anything just yet. But not to worry, you will be getting information on how to move your account very soon!
Let me know if you have any other questions!

Frank has since been contacted by Simple customer support, but not everyone is as lucky. For its part, Simple claims that the notices were sent to less than 1 percent of its users — 0.7 percent, to be exact — and the vast majority of customers were migrated to the new system with no problems.
Still, with something as sensitive as banking, inconveniencing even a small number of users can have an outsized effect on public perception. As with other previous setbacks, it takes a long time to build consumer trust when it comes to dealing with someone’s money — and sending someone a notice that you’re closing their bank account in 30 days probably doesn’t help.
Uber, the popular ride-hailing startup, shared a grip of new financial metrics with Bloomberg today. The numbers indicate that the company is still growing at an impressive pace, and that despite staggering losses may be getting a handle on its cash burn.
The company’s numbers have leaked in various quantities before, but today’s disclosure is a welcome dose of sunlight. That Uber is releasing financial figures at this juncture is perhaps not surprising. The first quarter has concluded, and Uber has come under intense fire in the public realm for a broken culture, petulant leadership and an executive exodus. Also, its chief U.S. rival, Lyft, recently raised $600 million at a newly expanded valuation.
Uber, presumably, hopes that by releasing its revenue growth figures it can change the narrative concerning its business. The company, for some time, was known best as a disruptive startup busy setting records for growth. Its leadership would likely welcome a return to the prior storyline.
Today we’re going to walk through the numbers together. First, we’ll lay out the facts. Following, we’ll figure out what it all means. 
Facts, figures, adjusted losses
Uber had gross bookings of $20 billion, according to information shared with Bloomberg. Of that $20 billion, Uber counted $6.5 billion as net (GAAP) revenue. That works out to a cut of just under a third of all money flowing through Uber’s platform.
Uber lost 5 percent more in the fourth quarter of 2016 compared to the third. The firm lost $991 million in the final period of last year, according to Bloomberg, implying a loss of around $943 million in the third quarter.
The company lost an adjusted $2.8 billion in 2016. That figure rises to a $3.8 billion tally when losses related to Uber’s Chinese operation are included, according to a Bloomberg estimate. (Those results compare to loss of “at least $2 billion” in 2015, according to a previous Bloomberg report). Both figures do not “account for employee stock compensation, certain real-estate investments, automobile purchases and other expenses,” according to Bloomberg.
So, on an adjusted basis, Uber lost around $3.8 billion in 2016. The real figure, using a full-GAAP reckoning, is likely higher. Merely employing the $3.8 billion figure, Uber had a -58.5 percent profit margin in 2016.
Those stiff losses are countered in part by rapid revenue growth.
Bloomberg notes that Uber’s gross bookings rose by 28 percent from the third quarter to the fourth quarter of 2016, resulting in net revenue of $2.9 billion for the final three months of the year. However, revenue in the fourth quarter was up a far stronger 74 percent in the fourth quarter when compared to the third.
Why? According to Bloomberg, it boils down to what counts as net revenue:
Revenue includes only the portion Uber takes from fares, except in the case of its carpooling service; the company counts the entire amount of an UberPool fare as revenue. The more Uber’s business shifts to the multi-passenger service, the faster revenue grows.
That lessens how impressive Uber’s topline result for 2016 is, perhaps. And it certainly shifts how we might consider the company’s fourth-quarter growth. The delta between bookings and revenue growth is worth consideration.
Finally, the company has $7 billion in cash and access to billions more in credit according to the same report. Uber is no immediate risk of running short of funds.
Do the losses matter?
It is not a surprise that Uber loses money. The company is large enough that drips of its financial performance have been slipping through the cracks for some time.
However, that Uber is losing just under $1 billion on an adjusted basis per quarter is notable. That’s a staggering pace of burn, especially when you mentally adjust it to fully account for Uber’s cost profile.
Uber has previously had little to no issue raising capital to fuel its continuing operations and growth; however, given the taint of scandal currently swirling around the firm, and its continued losses despite its age, valuation and time-in-market, private investors could be less interested.
It isn’t hard to understand questions that new or potentially recurring investors might ask: Given that UberPOOL revenue is counted differently than traditional Uberx revenue, should we trust your non-GAAP revenue over the GAAP result? That would put Uber in the tough position of arguing that investors should only pay attention to its GAAP revenue, and its non-GAAP losses, while investors might have an inclination to the opposite, focusing instead on the company’s more modest non-GAAP revenues and its larger GAAP losses.
All that sums to a murky ask: What is Uber’s path to profitability?
The profitability hunt
Corrections and caveats aside, Uber’s adjusted operating margin dramatically improved in the fourth quarter compared to the third. Its GAAP revenue grew 74 percent while its adjusted losses grew a mild 5 percent. That means its ratio of top to (negative) bottom lines got better.
That is the sort of improvement that quickly growing, but yet-unprofitable companies like to show investors as they discuss their future. No company expects to lose money forever. Uber most certainly does not. Short-term losses for long-term profits are always the goal for well-funded, growth-oriented companies.
That clarifies our question about Uber’s path to profits as more a timing question: How quickly can Uber get to profitability?
It will depend on a host of factors, including the company’s ride-expense outflow. Uber currently provides some drivers with incentives to drive a certain amount in a set timeframe, for example.

Related Articles
Uber and Getaround to offer $5 hourly short-term car rentals for drivers
Uber adds cross street pickups and drop-offs for more user privacy
Uber returns to Taiwan after partnering with licensed rental car companies

Why is Uber sharing this?
This time Uber gave the financials to Bloomberg, a contrast from the many unauthorized leaks. It seems that they are trying to generate some favorable publicity at a time when the conversations around the company have been anything but.
Like many private companies, Uber generally likes to keep its business closely guarded. But CEO Travis Kalanick takes it a step further, repeatedly downplaying his interest in a future IPO, saying last year it would be “as late as humanly possible.”
Yet, as evident by the latest financials, Uber is losing a lot of money. That means it is very reliant on investors to keep giving it more.
Thus far, Uber has had success in attracting a long list of investors to add to its coffers, valuing the company at a massive $68 billion, making it by far the largest venture-backed company.
But the price is getting pretty steep and investors may be increasingly skeptical at Uber’s growth prospects. Venture investors are often aiming for 3x results within a decade, and with growing competition and a company culture rocked by scandals, it’s hard to make the case that the company will triple.
So going public would be one way that the company could continue to raise money. It’s also a way to keep employees happy, by providing them with some liquidity.
Perhaps this Bloomberg exclusive is a way to test the waters and see how the public reacts, but it’s likely just an attempt to thwart its growing cadre of naysayers.
What we still don’t know
While there have been financial leaks from different periods in time, we are lacking a clear picture of Uber’s revenue growth quarter-by-quarter and year-over-year.
And the way they account for UberPOOL revenue is murky. It would be helpful more detail about what percentage of this is paid to drivers.
We’ve posted “contribution margins,” which shows the revenue-cost breakdown of their primary ridesharing business, but we have yet to get the full account of Uber’s other endeavors.
UberEATS, its food-delivery business, has expanded to dozens of cities throughout the world. Based on a report from The Information last year, UberEATS was forecast to contribute $100 million in net revenue, but also contribute to more than $100 million in additional losses for 2017, due to the costs of incentivizing drivers to participate in this newer service.
Uber is growing, but so are losses, albeit at a slower pace than the revenue gains. The company is clearly hoping to get away with the Amazon model of reinvesting in growth, but eventually Uber is going to have to demonstrate to investors, public or private, that it knows how to make money.
LeEco’s coming to America tale has been fraught with one bad piece of press after another. The company added to the laundry list this week by announcing that it formally pulled the plug on its EcoPass content package earlier this month.
The Chinese hardware maker confirmed in a statement to TechCrunch the story first spotted by Variety. “We discontinued the EcoPass Beta program as of April 1,” the statement reads. “We are replacing EcoPass with 3-months of DirecTV NOW with every purchase of a LeEco ecophone or ecotv. “
As with the rest of the bad news swirling around the company since it first burst onto the U.S. scene in a garish fashion last year, LeEco isn’t admitting any sort of defeat here. In fact, the company’s spinning the end of its content package as good news for customers. “We believe this provides greater value to our customers since it has over 60 channels that include the latest movies and shows,” it continues. “We are committed to supporting those customers that did sign up for the services in EcoPass.”
The service carried the usual LeEco bluster. It was introduced as a free three-month trial that came with the purchase of one of the company’ new handsets. It essentially pulled together content from a variety of services and coupled it with a warranty and cloud storage. It was, really, the company’s shot at Netflix.
More to the point, however, it was an attempt to build an English-language version of the video service upon which the company was initially developed. Well before it started building its own phones, LeEco (née LeTV) was a video service, later diversifying into hardware à la Amazon.
The company surely saw EcoPass as a cornerstone for its U.S. play, bolstered by sales of phones and TVs to serve up that content, Fire-style. And accordingly, devices like the Le Pro3 felt like they were built specifically around LeEco’s big video play. The recent acquisition of an English language production company, the (now dead) planned purchase of U.S.-based TV maker Vizio and the funding of the utterly disappointing Matt Damon historical fantasy epic The Great Wall all played into the plan.
The decision to sunset EcoPass is the latest in a string of bad news for a company that seemingly just can’t catch a break of late. Recent stories have found the company suffering a cash crunch and reportedly looking to dump the massive piece of land it picked up from Yahoo.
By all accounts from the outside, it sure looks like it bit off more than it could chew when it threw a massive party announcing plans to bring its phones, TV, bike, VR headsets and electric cars to the States.
The company’s spokespeople have managed to put on a happy face through all of these changes, but, taken together, it doesn’t paint a particularly rosy picture of the company’s overly ambitious U.S. strategies. Back in November, a spokesperson for the company told TechCrunch, “how sincere, how honest, is this company of the thing we are trying to build globally. Between the choices of hiding things, we generally share the challenge we are facing today.”
Right now, however, it certainly feels like there’s a whole lot the company isn’t saying.
Facebook proudly announced today that it has — it thinks — put an end to the nefarious doings of a “sophisticated,” “coordinated operation” that has been spamming the site for the last six months.
In a blog post, Facebook’s security team suggested the “inauthentic likes” came from accounts in “Bangladesh, Indonesia, Saudi Arabia, and a number of other countries.” That narrows it down! Actually, it sounds pretty smart: The accounts would appear, like a few pages, spam them, then fall silent. Proxies and other means were taken to make it seem that these fake accounts weren’t centrally administrated — which, of course, they were.
As far as volume, the post scrupulously avoids real numbers:
As we remove the rest of the inauthentic likes, we expect that 99% of impacted Pages with more than 10,000 likes will see a drop of less than 3%.
If you can figure out what that means, feel free to comment below. What about the fake likes and accounts removed before now? How many pages were affected? Are pages with fewer likes affected less, or more? Are there other networks currently being fought in similar ways, and, if so, what kind of drops should we expect when those get rolled up?
No doubt this is good news for everyone, but I can’t help but get the same feeling from Facebook here that I get from Twitter when it dances around the numbers of bots and spammers on its network. The numbers will be high, of course, but even if they’re within reasonable limits, no user or investor likes to hear that there are 10, 20 or 100 million fake accounts or likes.
The dismantlement of this particular network comes hot on the heels of an announcement by the company earlier this week that it was stepping up its efforts against spam and fake news.

Featured Image: Bryce Durbin/TechCrunch
Just as Uber is under fire once again, Lyft confirms a huge new funding round, Elon Musk reveals plans for electric trucks and Apple is diving into secret special projects. These are the top tech stories of the week. You can also get this post as the Weekly Roundup newsletter delivered to your inbox on Saturdays, if that’s more your style. 

1. Uber’s “Hell-ish” week
A report surfaced claiming that Uber secretly tracked Lyft drivers using an internal software program called “Hell.” Hell not only let Uber see how many Lyft drivers were available for rides and what their prices were, but also figure out which of its drivers were also driving for Lyft. Once Uber knew when and where they tended to log onto Lyft, the company was able to offer drivers financial incentives convincing them to use only Uber. Some lawyers are saying Uber could face civil legal claims related to its use of the software. It was also announced this week that Rachel Whetstone, Uber’s head of communications and policy, is leaving the company. We know that her reason for leaving is complex, but there was some tension between Whetstone and Uber CEO Travis Kalanick over bad press.

2. Apple may have hired biomedical researchers to work on a secret project 
Apple seems to be on a special projects hiring spree. A new report is claiming that Apple has hired a group of biomedical researchers to work on a secret project to monitor diabetic patients using sensors. Normally, patients monitor their glucose by pricking themselves to get a blood sample, so not having to do that any more would be a real game-changer for people affected by diabetes. It was reported that Apple is also putting together a team to design its own battery management chip for the iPhone. By designing its own chips, Apple could go a bit further than the standard power management chip, making the iPhone slightly more efficient in power usage. This way, the company could get a leg up on Android makers when it comes to battery life.
In other Apple news, the California DMV released a list of companies allowed to test autonomous vehicles on the roads of California. The last name of the long list is Apple. It doesn’t necessarily mean that you’re going to see an Apple car on the road tomorrow… but it means that the company has the green light to start real-world tests at some point in the future.
3. Tesla’s plan for trucks 
Tesla CEO Elon Musk revealed on Twitter that Tesla plans to show off an electric pickup truck sometime within the next two years. Musk also announced that Tesla will reveal its electric semi truck, the Tesla Semi, in September of this year.
4. Lyft confirms major $600 million raise, bringing total funding to $2.61 billion
Lyft confirmed on its blog that it has raised a total of $600 million in new funding, with a post-money valuation of $7.5 billion. The funding brings Lyft’s total funding to $2.61 billion, which is a gigantic amount unless you consider the incredibly competitive space within which they operate, which includes Uber, with $8.8 billion invested across 13 rounds.
5. Instagram Stories is now bigger than Snapchat
Instagram Stories hit 200 million daily active users, surpassing Snapchat Stories’ 161 million users it reported in March when the parent company, Snap, went public. Instagram is also getting faster at copying Snapchat features; it also added Instagram Direct and an AR Stories feature this week.
6. Yext sees successful IPO on the NYSE
This week saw another tech IPO as Yext, the company that helps businesses power their location data, went public on the New York Stock Exchange. After pricing shares above the expected range at $11, the price rose 21 percent to $13.29 by the end of the first day of trading.

7. Nintendo’s NES Classic shipments come to a close
All good things must come to an end. This week Nintendo said that it will be sunsetting the short-lived but beloved NES Classic Edition — the $60 console that gave us 30 classic Nintendo games. However, the language was not so clear, indicating room for a potential release in the future: “Throughout April, [Nintendo of America] territories will receive the last shipments of Nintendo Entertainment System: NES Classic Edition systems for this year.” So if you don’t have one yet, there’s still hope. But get ready to pay big bucks in the meantime.
8. Flipkart has a fresh $1.4 billion raise
Amazon and Alibaba had better watch out. Following months of rumors, Indian e-commerce giant Flipkart has confirmed that it has raised $1.4 billion in new funding at a post-money valuation of $11.6 billion. The deal includes some big-name strategic investors: China’s Tencent, eBay and Microsoft, which join existing Flipkart backers that include Tiger Global, Naspers, Accel and DST Global.
9. Hulu’s live TV to cost $39.99 per month
More details emerged on Hulu’s play to kill the cable box. The pricing for Hulu’s live TV service, a competitor with cable television — as well as a host of other streaming TV services like Sling TV, DirecTV NOW and YouTube TV — will likely be $39.99 per month, with ads and access to Hulu’s on-demand library.
10. Andre Iguodala spills Magic Leap secrets
Magic Leap had some of its secrets spilled by Golden State Warriors small forward Andre Iguodala. In an interview, Iguodala talked about augmented reality and undoubtedly skated the lines of violating his Magic Leap NDA as he described his demo with the product, which he called a “disruption of life.” Iguodala gave some interesting insight into what a Magic Leap interface might look like, saying that in one demonstration he stuck his hand out and a character appeared in his hand that acted as a digital assistant for the device, something Iguodala compared to Apple’s Siri. He referenced the character’s ability to control smart-home devices, as well as other aspects of the operating system.
11. Qualtrics is holding on IPO 
Utah-based SaaS company Qualtrics’ IPO many have been expecting is on hold for now. The online market research platform has just raised its third round for $180 million at a whopping $2.5 billion valuation.
Weekend reads
Why do airlines overbook their flights?
You may have seen an airline offer someone $500 to voluntarily give up their seat on a flight because they are overbooked. If you are going to a funeral, to an important meeting or if you’re a doctor on your way to see a patient, that may not work. If you’re on vacation, however, and you figure that $500 to spend on another flight later in the year means a free trip to visit the family, you may be willing to let yourself be bumped off the flight. But why do airlines overbook flights? Here’s a detailed explanation. 
How I made my own VPN server in 15 minutes
People are (rightfully) freaking out about their privacy as the Senate voted to let internet providers share your private data with advertisers. While it’s important to protect your privacy, it doesn’t mean that you should sign up to a VPN service and tunnel all your internet traffic through VPN servers. Here’s how one writer made their own VPN server in 15 minutes. 

Featured Image: Ringo H.W. Chiu/AP
GM is looking to leapfrog its competitors in the autonomous driving space by deploying a larger fleet of cars than any of them — perhaps as many as 300, according to documents obtained by IEEE Spectrum.
An admirable bit of digging on some FCC applications showed an application to deploy 3,000 vehicular radar units, with 10 units per vehicle. Shortly thereafter, GM filed a request to deploy the same type of radar, though it declined to indicate how many. And after that, Bosch applied to test a different radar, with 650 units covering up to 162 vehicles, though it wouldn’t say for whom.
Fortunately, Bosch did indicate where it would be deploying its radars: Detroit, San Francisco and Scottsdale. GM subsidiary Cruise Automation is the only company that tests in all those locations.
While the exact number is unclear — there could be a mix of the two radar types on each vehicle, and some devices may also be spare parts. But even a conservative estimate puts it well ahead of competitors at least in terms of sheer numbers of test vehicles on the road.
The FCC has yet to grant the special license for these vehicles and devices to operate, so it may be a while before they are deployed.

Featured Image: Bryce Durbin/TechCrunch
A cute, robotic language tutor called Musio, has made it from crowdfunding campaign to full-fledged product with a debut in stores this week in Japan. Priced at JPY 98,000 (about US $900), Musio is now sold online through SoftBank’s marketplace and Amazon Japan, and through a handful of brick-and-mortars stores.
Musio’s parent company, AI venture AKA Study, is the latest startup from Raymond Jung, a co-founder of the massively successful test-prep venture, Hackers Education Group, in South Korea. AKA employs about 50 full-time today, with most in Seoul, and a small office in Santa Monica, Calif. Technically, the company is headquartered in the U.S., but it’s not making any consumer electronics for the American market yet.
TechCrunch asked Jung why he considers AKA’s Musio a robot since it is not ambulatory, and doesn’t do any lifting. “We put a motor system in there. If you need a dynamic part, you can add it in the future,” the CEO explained. The company is planning for the next generation of Musio robots to be able to walk or point with their arms and legs.
Today, Musio engages users in small talk, answers their trivia questions in a personable tone, admits when it doesn’t know something and can correct a user’s grammar. The robot works in conjunction with curriculum, including printed books and games, developed by educational publisher Gakken, that are purchased separately or as part of a premium Musio package.
Musio’s face and heart are touchscreens. They show a range of expressions, meant to endear users. The animated eyes and heart are not a feature unique to Musio. Other social robots like EMYS, and ROOBO’s Domgy have animated, emotive eyes. And Aldebaran’s humanoid Pepper robot displays animations on a tablet on its chest, and through its eyes. But users can also use the screens on Musio’s face and heart to navigate different menus.
AI giants like Apple, Amazon, Baidu, Google, IBM and Tencent make plenty of their technology available to developers who want to offer voice control, natural language processing or emotional intelligence as part of their apps or hardware. But AKA is developing a range of proprietary AI engines. These allow the company and its Musio robot to recognize and remember a particular user, build rapport with them over time and reference past conversations.
This kind of machine learning also enables Musio to identify where learners need help advancing their language skills. For example, if Musio recalls that a user previously got questions wrong around a vocabulary module involving dinosaurs, it can suggest a review of that material with a user when they next chat.
Jung explained, “Musio will also answer your questions, but our competitive advantage is conversing with you naturally.” When a user asks Musio a question, its answers sound more like a friend responding than a read-out of a top search result.
Musio is a portable, social robot made by AKA Study.
Jung’s grand vision is to develop Musio, and other AI-powered devices and apps, for use beyond education. For example, Jung envisions Musio evolving into a “companion,” that can help the elderly stay socially connected and live a healthy, independent life. He said there’s great demand for social robots in Japan, which is one reason his company has focused on that market. The CEO also said automotive companies have expressed interest in the company’s MUSE platform to add friendly interactivity to their driver interfaces.
Now that Musio is out in stores, AKA Study also plans to make its proprietary AI engines accessible to other developers who find systems like Apple’s Siri or Amazon’s Alexa lacking a certain personable quality.
So far, AKA Study has raised $10.7 million in seed and Series A funding. Formation 8 led its Series A round, and SV Angel founder David Lee was the company’s earliest angel investor. Additional firms backing AKA and the Musio brand include Japanese education conglomerate Gakken, LG UPlus, the private equity fund DS in Korea and the co-founders of the gaming company Nexon.

Featured Image: AKA Study
As writers resort to attention-getting headlines to maintain readership it’s clear that the educated, mobile, and bored reader is now turning into a listener. While written news continues to flood us from every conceivable angle there is one small, quiet voice still speaking to us from our earbuds: the podcaster speaking truth to power, bullshitting about movies, or spinning long narrative threads about dead men and their gold.
First, let’s all agree that podcasting is getting big. Once the domain of amateur mumblers who spoke at length about laptop specs or chemtrails, podcasting has become big business and listeners are paying attention. I posit that podcasting has become the default method for consuming longform journalism and commentary and that should give writers and journalists pause.


podcast genres : 1. Men going on about things. 2. Whispery crime 3.Millennials talking over each other 4. Should be 20 minutes shorter
— emily bell (@emilybell) April 12, 2017



Some numbers: In the past six years podcast listenership has risen 13% from 23% to 36% of Americans aged 12 and up. The number of podcasts hosted on Libsyn rose from 12,000 in 2012 to 28,000 in 2016. WNYC raised $15 million to create a new “podcast division.” A new podcast, one that details the life and times of an eccentric Southern clockmaker, achieved blockbuster status, grabbing 1.8 million subscribers since launch.


Again, these numbers pale in comparison to the budgets of cable TV and Internet. This website alone has 8 million followers on Twitter and does 1.8 million pageviews in a few hours. The written word, however, becomes far less interesting in places where education is valued but the time and concentration necessary to consume longform writing is lacking. A sysadmin I know listens to hundreds of podcasts on his daily walks to and from work. Countless long-distance commuters plug in a podcast for the trip from Circleville to Columbus or Bucks County to Manhattan. Podcasting is the new talk radio and it skews, at least in the categories we can measure, toward the public radio listener.
Spoken word has long been in a doldrum but that is changing. While talk radio appeals to sports fans and baby boomers it never appealed to the long form reader. Podcasts, however, have begun the slow process of replacing the written word. Some of the best non-fiction out there is appearing on shows like This American Life and Serial and it’s clear that on-demand audio, like on-demand video before it, is the “next big thing.”
Now back to my hyperbolic title – can podcasting truly save the world? First, we have to assume that the world wants long form writing on the Internet. I think this is true. We love stories and consuming those stories in audio format is a true treat. It lets us consume long form content without the associated costs of reading, costs that, while minimal, still require time and attention.
Second, we have to assume that podcasts are getting better. The numbers bear this out. While most of Libsyn’s podcasts, I’m assuming, aren’t on par with in-depth analyses like Radiolab or Serial we can assume that at least a few of those podcasts – Hardcore History and A History of the World in 100 Objects spring to mind – have multiple thousands of downloads and are designed for the careful, curious listener.
Therefore we are getting amazing content for free via podcasting and any time that happens someone gets hurt. When blogs started producing acceptably readable facsimiles of newspaper reports they supplanted newspapers. Once websites and forums could review products better than computer magazines the magazines died. Podcasting will change the world by bringing us back to literary non-fiction and encourage contemplative, not consumptive, models of media.
If I were in the betting game I’d say that podcasts will rise in popularity as television and radio wane. News, commentary, and histories work quite well in the podcasting medium. You can easily grab a daily news rundown and listen to it at your leisure just as you can easily download the best of the podcasting world for slow, careful consideration. Whereas television and radio are considered finite resources by the folks who maintain them there can be a podcast for every mind. Why listen to Howard Stern for hours when you can listen to three podcasts that are equally raunchy and, presumably, get more out of the process?
We have no time to read. We do have time to listen to podcasts. Again, if I were in the betting game I would wager that podcasts are only going to get more popular and if I were getting into media I’d learn how to make and sell them. It’s rare that something blossoms so wildly right under our noses. It would help us to pay attention.
Designed with long-term medical research in mind, the Study Watch has a vastly different set of hardware requirements than your standard smartwatch. The device was designed by Verily, the “V” in Google’s Alphabet, which is devoted to serious medical studies like MS observation and contact lenses capable of monitoring wearers’ glucose level.
The Study Watch will likewise be tasked with some important research, gathering vital signs for ongoing work like the Personalized Parkinson’s Project, which is investigating patterns in the disease’s progression and identifying the building blocks for a potential cure.
The unassuming wearable will also be used for Baseline, a previously announced study dating back to 2014, which is designed to track the long-term vitals of 175 individuals, in an attempt to build “the fullest picture of what a healthy human being should be.”
Google was the target of some online criticism when it referred to that project as a “moonshot,” a term the company has traditionally reserved for wild-eyed projects like self-driving cars and internet-delivering weather balloons. But while it doesn’t possess the glitz of those undertakings, it does point to the broader mission statement of Verily, to “collect and organize health data, then creating interventions and platforms that put insights derived from that health data to use for more holistic care management.”
The Study Watch, accordingly, doesn’t possess the pizzazz of Google’s consumer electronics offerings, but from the sound of the company’s rundown, it’s built to be a workhorse. And the fact that it looks and acts like a standard wristwatch goes a ways toward making the data collection process less obtrusive than more traditional vital-gathering devices. And honestly, it’s not bad looking.
The device sports a heavy-lifting process designed for real-time algorithmic computations. It’s also got a slew of sensors for collecting a lot more data that your standard heart-rate monitoring smartwatch.
“Multiple physiological and environmental sensors are designed to measure relevant signals for studies spanning cardiovascular, movement disorders, and other areas,” says Verily in a post announcing the device. “Examples include electrocardiogram (ECG), heart rate, electrodermal activity, and inertial movements.”
Battery life is also key here, as the device is meant to be worn for long stretches. Verily says it’s able to get a week on the device, thanks to what looks to be an e-ink-style always-on display. There’s also lot of on-board storage, so users don’t have to sync the device too often, which ought to help with the aforementioned unobtrusiveness.
The official announcement of the device is pretty perfectly timed, arriving a day after rumors surfaced suggesting that Apple is getting more seriously into healthcare with a secret project designed to monitor glucose levels in diabetic patients.
The wait is over, hackathon fans. Disrupt NY 2017 is right around the corner, and with just a few short weeks left until we kick off the best startup show in the Big Apple, we thought it was high time we released the first batch of tickets to the Disrupt NY Hackathon.
The hackathon takes place May 13-14 at Manhattan’s Pier 36. Those of you looking to spend the weekend before Disrupt hard at work coding, tinkering and hacking together something pretty awesome can get your free hackathon tickets here.
The hackathon kicks off at 12:30 p.m. PT on Saturday, May 13, with networking and the forming of the hackathon teams. On Sunday, after a grueling 20-plus hours of work (and a bit of fun), teams will have just 60 seconds to present their projects to a panel of judges on the Disrupt stage.
In addition to the satisfaction and pride that comes with building something awesome, those teams have the opportunity to score a few tickets to Disrupt, a $5,000 grand prize and several gadgets, toys and other monetary prizes from our sponsors.
All teams who earn a score of three or higher from our judges will win two free tickets to the main Disrupt conference on May 15-17.
At Disrupt, they’ll get to take in the illustrious Startup Battlefield competition, check out hundreds of startups in Startup Alley and Hardware Alley, and hear from our incredible lineup of speakers in a series of interviews and fireside chats — folks like Female Founders Fund Founding Partner Anu Duggal and VP of Amazon Music Steve Boom, to name a few.
The hackathon is a great place for both hardware and software companies — software company AlexaSite won the event at Disrupt NY 2016, and hardware company Shower With Friends won the event at Disrupt SF in 2014.

All you have to do is bring whatever great ideas you may have floating around the ol’ noggin, and spend a hard, fun-filled weekend bringing your ideas that much closer to reality. We can’t wait to see what you all come up with.
But first you’ll need to grab a ticket, and just in case you missed the link above, you can grab your completely free ticket to the hackathon here.
Our sponsors help make Disrupt happen. If you are interested in learning more about sponsorship opportunities, please contact our sponsorship team at sponsors@techcrunch.com.
It’s no secret, Apple has been working hard on a self-driving car. Today, the California DMV has released an updated list of companies allowed to test autonomous vehicles on the roads of California. The last name on the long list is Apple.
It doesn’t necessarily mean you’re going to see an Apple car on the road tomorrow. But it means the company can start real-world tests at some point in the future.
In particular, it’s going to be interesting to see if Apple is going to use third-party cars with its own technology and sensors. Rumor has it that Apple is now working on autonomous driving technology and not a full-fledged car.
Update: TechCrunch got the following statement from a DMV spokesperson: “Today, April 14, 2017, the California Department of Motor Vehicles issued Apple Inc. an autonomous vehicle test permit. The permit covers three vehicles, all 2015 Lexus RX450h, and six drivers.” It’s the exact same car Google has been using for its self-driving tests.
It’s going to take years before Apple has a final product. But it’s good to see that the company is still moving forward.
It’s also interesting to note that Apple is not afraid of exposing its cars on the roads of California. Apple hasn’t been as secretive as it usually is with this project. Building a self-driving car requires a ton of data, so the company needs to put its car on the road as quickly as possible.

Featured Image: Bryce Durbin
In March, Google introduced its own parental control software for parents of kids with Android devices called Family Link – but there was a bit of a catch. In order for the system to work, it required that both parent and child use Android. That has now changed, as the parents’ app for configuring and monitoring the child’s device usage has just arrived on iOS devices.
That means mom or dad can be an iPhone user, but still manage their child’s screen time, daily usage limits, set “bedtimes” and more, for their kids who use Android.
This launch expands the reach of Family Link dramatically, given that iOS has grown to capture 42 percent of the smartphone market here in the U.S., where Family Link is currently available.

The parental control platform is still in testing. When Google unveiled the software last month, it explained that parents would first have to request an invite to join the program. The idea is that Google wants to first work out the kinks and get feedback from early adopters before making Family Link more broadly available.
As for the software itself, Family Link lets parents set some basic limits on how their child can use their Android phone. It offers tools that allow parents to either block or approve app downloads – similar to the iCloud Family Sharing “Ask” feature on Apple devices – or block apps that are already installed.
In addition, parents can track how much time kids are spending in which apps through weekly and monthly activity reports, remotely lock the child’s device on a set schedule (device “bedtimes”), and configure daily screen time limits.




The iOS version, released on Thursday, doesn’t appear to have any new features compared with its Android counterpart – it simply ports the parental control app to Apple’s platform.
There are a few other caveats to be aware of if you want to try Family Link, however. It still requires the child has an Android device running Nougat (7.0) or higher, or has one of a handful of supported Marshmallow devices. (A list of those is available on the Family Link FAQ page.)
Of course, you should also be aware that this is an early preview of the software, and there could still be bugs to contend with here.
Family Link for iOS works on devices running iOS 9 or higher and is a free download on the App Store. 
Like most candidates vying for a state seat, Delaware state Senate candidate Stephanie Hansen spent the months leading up to her February election fundraising. And she got a surprising boost from a newly launched site called Flippable, which raises funds online for candidates in districts that could flip from Republican to Democratic. The organization raised one-third of Hansen’s campaign budget, and her campaign manager credited Flippable with doing more to secure her victory than the Democratic National Committee.
After Flippable raised $130,000 for Hansen and brought in about 1,000 volunteers from out of state, Hansen won her seat by 17 percent. The last Democrat to hold the seat won by only 2 percent.
Before the presidential election last fall, tech companies and venture capitalists funneled money into voter registration apps and voter education initiatives. Facebook let users plan their ballots with a new tool, while Spotify streamed podcasts on key political issues. So many voter registration apps got funded that I gave up on writing about all of them.
But now people eager to influence politics are funneling their money into midterm elections and state races, and new companies like Flippable are springing up to make political spending more accessible.
Flippable co-founder Catherine Vaughan is trying to keep the momentum of Hansen’s election going in other state races. Her approach borrows the metrics-obsessed techniques of tech and merges them with her political campaigning experience.
“We are very metrics-driven and focused on two things. What level of engagement can we drive to these races? By channeling the excitement of liberals into certain races, can we move the needle? Attributing wins is difficult, but we have a mindset on, is this working? Is this effective?” Vaughan told TechCrunch.
The next fundraising tests are quickly approaching in Georgia and Utah. Jon Ossoff, a Georgia Democrat and first-time Congressional candidate running in a typically Republican district, has raised more than $8 million leading up to a special election next week. Some of the money was raised through Flippable, but the organization eventually scaled back its calls for donations when it became clear how much Ossoff was raising.
When we make projections about how competitive a race will be, we can look back and see if we were correct. We can see how much it costs to flip a race.— Catherine Vaughan, Flippable co-founder
Then there’s Kathryn Allen, a challenger to Jason Chaffetz for his House seat, who broke records on the political crowdfunding site CrowdPac. She raised $566,000 from more than 15,000 donors during her first quarter. Donations started pouring in to Allen’s campaign when she criticized Chaffetz for saying Americans should invest in healthcare instead of spending money on iPhones.
The outsize donations to the two underdog campaigns demonstrate how eager many donors are to get involved in politics. And Flippable isn’t the only grassroots organization that’s swooped in to respond to donors’ desires. Sister District matches volunteers with campaigns in potential swing districts, while Swing Left focuses narrowly on 2018 House races.
Instead of supporting a single candidate, Flippable’s next challenge is to push an entire slate of more than 30 candidates. Vaughan, who previously worked on the Hillary Clinton campaign, is focusing on flipping Virginia House of Delegates seats. The slate, which launched yesterday, highlights five “priority flip” districts and several other “potential flip” districts and aims to raise $125,000 before the primaries on June 13.
“It’s the first time we are experimenting with a slate as opposed to a single candidate,” Vaughan said. “We will have places were people can volunteer or donate. They can pledge in districts where there isn’t a candidate yet, because the primary isn’t until June. Hopefully it will help people connect to Virginia and this cause.”
Vaughan notes that Virginia is “trending blue,” with 17 districts casting their votes for Clinton during the presidential election, even though they are currently represented by Republican delegates.
Flippable isn’t particularly interested in the candidates’ platforms. “We don’t vet by platform,” Vaughan explains. “If we had a specific policy platform, no candidate would meet our criteria. Ultimately, viable candidates are reflective of the Democrats living in their district. That’s going to look different from one state to another.”
Although the Hansen race makes Flippable’s approach look promising, it’s not clear yet whether the big fundraising efforts will help candidates like Ossoff and Allen win their elections. After all, Vaughan notes, Clinton ran a billion-dollar campaign and didn’t secure a victory.
“A lot of people are inclined to say raising more money doesn’t help; data doesn’t help. But it’s so different than a local race where $100,000 could double someone’s budget,” she said. “When we make projections about how competitive a race will be, we can look back and see if we were correct. We can see how much it costs to flip a race.”

Featured Image: Bryce Durbin/TechCrunch
It’s been several months since their last major exploit, but the hacking group dubbed Shadow Brokers is back. The group, which last year dumped malware it had allegedly stolen from The Equation Group, a hacking team associated with the NSA, posted new files over the weekend and followed up today with a dump of Windows exploits.
The latest files contain tools apparently designed to access Windows machines, as well as slideshows documenting the targeting of banking systems.
“Is being too bad nobody deciding to be paying theshadowbrokers for just to shutup and going away. TheShadowBrokers rather being getting drunk with McAfee on desert island with hot babes,” the group wrote in a post announcing the file release.
Security researchers analyzing the files say that The Equation Group targeted VPNs and firewalls to gain access to banking systems. The newly published exploits appear to primarily target older versions of Windows, but some appear to be as current as Windows 8.
Researchers are still combing through the files to see what’s fresh and what isn’t. So far, some of the most significant exploits appear to center around SWIFT Alliance Access (SAA), a flagship financial messaging interface used by banks around the world. The files suggest that the NSA is actively targeting international banking bureaus, specifically through a widespread global protocol for secure financial messaging and transactions. According to the files, two NSA programs known as JEEPFLEA_POWDER and JEEPFLEA_MARKET exist to specifically compromise SWIFT bureaus and services.
TechCrunch has contacted Microsoft and SWIFT for comment and will update if we hear back.
Update: A Microsoft spokesperson told TechCrunch that “We are reviewing the report and will take the necessary actions to protect our customers.”
Update 2 (4/15/17): Microsoft says that, after investigating exploits, it has been able to patch most, while the remaining won’t reproduce on systems running Windows 7 and above. So anyone with a relatively recent version of the operating system should be covered. Those with older versions, however, might still be at risk with unsupported systems — as compelling a reason as any to consider an upgrade.
We’re finally going to hear Luke Skywalker’s voice again.
After making us wait months longer than we did for the first Force Awakens teaser, Disney has released a teaser trailer for the sequel, Star Wars: The Last Jedi.

Related Articles
Leaked Star Wars: Battlefront II trailer is visually stunning
'Rogue One' transports viewers to a bigger Star Wars universe
Review: 'Star Wars: The Force Awakens' Will Make You Believe, Again
 The unveiling came at Star Wars Celebration, at the end of a panel with Last Jedi director Rian Johnson, returning cast members Mark Hamill, John Boyega and Daisy Ridley, as well as new addition Kelly Marie Tran (who plays Rose, a member of the Resistance).
They saved the trailer for the very end of the panel, with Johnson even teasing audience members by announcing a new poster first, then finally shouting, “Of course there’s a trailer!”
And it is very much a teaser, with just a few brief glimpses of the film, reassuring viewers that Finn, Rey, Poe and Kylo Ren will return. Most importantly, we actually hear Luke speak, starting with the very first lines.
The Last Jedi opens on December 15.

#TheLastJedi poster has been revealed. #SWCO pic.twitter.com/fqnf1bQtPu
— Star Wars (@starwars) April 14, 2017
A new application for iMessage called “Let’s Watch It!” introduces an easy way for you to share and watch YouTube or Twitch videos with friends to watch together, as well as react to them, and even voice or video chat while viewing.
The iMessage App Store doesn’t yet have a lot of breakout hits at this point, but group video chatting seems to be an exception. Last month, a growing video chat app called Fam raised $1.8 million to continue to invest in its video chat platform, with the intention of expanding to include features like game-playing, interactive live masks and filters, and – yes – watching videos together.
But Let’s Watch It! has beaten Fam to the gate with its own implementation of group video viewing, as it turns out.

The app, has been around since early March, but recently added support for turning on the front-facing camera and the microphone in the app, giving it more of a social, real-time feel. But these features are optional – you can toggle a switch at the bottom of the screen to enable or disable the functionality as needed.
As for the video viewing experience itself, Let’s Watch It! does a good job here. If anything, the most difficult thing about using the app is navigating the clunky iMessage App Store, and then getting to the app from the iMessage interface. But once you’ve got it loaded, it’s straightforward to use.
The app presents a scrollable list of popular videos, or you can search for a particular title in YouTube, YouTube Live, or Twitch. You can toggle through the video sources from the hamburger menu on the left. When you find a video you want to share, you just tap it. This places a video thumbnail into an iMessage thread, ready for sending.

When the recipient gets the video and taps it, they’ll be directed to download the app if they don’t already have it installed.
But once they’re in Let’s Watch It! with you, everyone can view the video together in real-time.
When someone joins the viewing party, confetti appears all over the screen, letting you know they’ve arrived and are now watching with you. The viewers each have their own username and icon below the video, which is either a default avatar, a sleeping avatar if they’re offline (complete with zzzz”), or a live video feed piped in from the phone’s camera, if they’ve toggled that feature on.
If one person has already started watching the video, the newcomer will be joined at the same spot so the two streams are synced up. However, either party can rewind the video and start it again.
While viewing, you can tap on emoji reactions that are a variation on those you’d find on Facebook, plus the standard thumbs up and thumbs down. These will float up over the video where they’ll also be seen by other viewers.




In testing, I didn’t have issues with the videos not syncing or any lagging, but there was one small glitch that I came across. When a video finishes, the app moves on to whatever video it has queued up to auto-play next. If you then try to tap the video thumbnail you were sent in iMessage to re-watch the original video again, it doesn’t play. Instead, the app will just restart the video that had been autoplaying in the queue.
This feature is likely by design. As latecomers join in a group video viewing session by tapping on the thumbnail, it makes sense to sync them up to whichever video the group has moved on to next, instead of the first that was sent out. But it’s still not ideal.
However, this is a minor quirk, and can be resolved by seeking out the original video and re-sending it as a new thumbnail in iMessage.
The app was created by the team from NEA-backed Little Labs, which is regularly experimenting with new app platforms, having previously built smartwatch-first apps like a watch face designer for Android Wear called Facer, mobile games for Apple Watch, and more recently, games for iMessage. (They also built the official game for the movie “The Martian,” among other things.)
Currently, its iMessage game Let’s Puck It! has grown to over a million users, says Little Labs co-founder Kris McDonald, and its success encouraged the company to develop more interactive apps for Apple’s iMessage platform.
Let’s Watch It! is currently a free download on the App Store, with no current plans to monetize. Note that it only works in iMessage, not on iOS.
Seriously, Disrupt fans, you guys have procrastinated long enough. Today is the last day to get your hands on Early Bird tickets to Disrupt NY 2017 — so if you want to go to the best startup show in New York for the cheapest possible price, the time to act is now.
Like right now. Now now. Get your tickets now.
Phew! Now that you’ve gotten your ticket and the pressure is off, here’s everything that early-bird ticket gets you.
To kick things off, you’ll get to peruse the Startup Alley and Hardware Alley, where promising early-stage startups will be demoing their products and services to the thousands of Disrupt attendees passing by.
Next, you’ll hear from a series of prominent entrepreneurs and investors in a series of lectures and interviews. These speakers are a veritable who’s who of the tech industry — folks like Amazon Music VP and Steve Boom, SoFi Chairman, CEO and Co-Founder Mike Cagney, and Outdoor Voices Founder and CEO Tyler Haney, to name just a few.
Then, you’ll get to check out a few dozen promising early-stage startups as they pitch our panel of judges in the illustrious Startup Battlefield competition. Battlefield companies are vying for the chance to win $50,000, the coveted Disrupt Cup and, perhaps most importantly, the attention of the tech community at large.
Finally, what better way to unwind after a long day at Disrupt than by attending the after-parties that let you keep the good times going long into the evening?
Of course, you can’t do any of it without a ticket, and today is the last day to get Early Bird Disrupt tickets for just $1,995 apiece, a full $1,000 off the final retail price. If you haven’t done so already, what the heck are you waiting for? Get your ticket today!
Disrupt NY 2017 takes place May 15-17 at Manhattan’s Pier 36. We can’t wait to see you there.



		
Welcome back to Equity, TechCrunch’s venture capital-focused podcast where we dive into the numbers behind the story.
This week, Arlan Hamilton, founder and managing partner of a Backstage Capital, joined co-hosts Katie Roof, Matthew Lynley and myself. We discussed the interesting and slightly disappointing $630 million RetailMeNot acquisition, Yext’s above-range IPO pricing and strong first day’s trading, what’s going on in global venture capital and the investing thesis of Hamilton and her diversity-focused firm.
Give the hashtag #equitypod a shot, and we’ll do our best to stay in touch. Equity drops every Friday at 6:00 am PT, so subscribe to us on iTunes, Overcast, Pocketcast, Downcast and all the casts.
Editor’s note: Alex Wilhelm is the editor-in-chief of Crunchbase News.
In just nine days, France is going to vote for their next president — there’s going to be a second round face-off in three weeks too. And it looks like Facebook wants to avoid another fake news scandal as the company is preemptively running full page ads in major French newspapers.
The ad gives ten tips to spot fake news on the internet. You’ll find it today in the paper edition of Le Monde, Les Échos, Libération, Le Parisien, 20 Minutes and potentially other newspapers. Facebook tells you to check the URL, the date, the photos, the facts in the article and more. It’s similar to the tips that started to appear at the top of the news feed in the Facebook app. You can check it out at the end of the article.
Facebook also shared an update on its efforts to fight fake news on its security blog yesterday. 30,000 Facebook accounts have been banned because they shared “spam, misinformation, or other deceptive content.” Facebook now tries to identify and block suspicious activity, including fake likes.
Shortly after the election of U.S. President Donald Trump, Facebook admitted that it was partly responsible for the spread of misinformation. Articles saying that Hilary Clinton sold weapons to ISIS (which she did not) became more popular than articles covering the last days of the campaign.
The words “fake news” have a new meaning today now that Trump keeps accusing negative coverage of being fake news even though the facts in those articles are correct. That’s why Facebook now tends to say “false news” instead of “fake news.”
These efforts are interesting for a few of reasons. First, Mark Zuckerberg said multiple times that his company wasn’t responsible for the spread of fake news. And yet, Facebook also announced that it would address fake news back in December with clear changes to the platform. Today is a continuation of those efforts.
Second, it’s a bit sad that Facebook itself has to teach everyone how to spot fake news. I’m sure most people could read an article and say that it looks fake. But the issue is that too many people still blindly share a headline on Facebook without reading the actual articles.
Finally, I’m not sure a coordinated advertising campaign in major newspapers is really effective. Most people don’t read newspapers anymore, at least not the paper version. I’d even say that people who spend time reading newspapers are probably better informed than an average person and could spot fake news more easily.
So I don’t think this advertising campaign is about informing people about fake news. Facebook wants to show that it is tackling the issue of fake news ahead of the election. I’m sure journalists working for all those publications are going to notice those ads and subconsciously think that Facebook isn’t turning a blind eye this time.
This way, if a controversial candidate like Marine Le Pen gets enough votes to access the second round of the election, journalists won’t think about accusing Facebook. It’s a well-designed PR campaign to protect Facebook’s image.
Four years after we made our TechCrunch China events a twice-annual affair in Beijing and Shanghai, we are very proud to announce that we will host the event in Shenzhen, known as ‘The Silicon Valley For Hardware,’ for the very first time this coming June!
This is hugely exciting for us and our China partner Technode. We’ve done one-day events in the city in the past, but this marks the first time that we’ve brought one of our largest shows to town. Shenzhen is the innovation capital of China, if not the world — it is proof that tech companies in the country are innovating not just copying. We can’t wait to get to know the local tech community better, and host our usual mix of top-quality speakers, innovative startups, investors and thousands of event attendees in the city.
Our inaugural Shenzhen event will take place June 17-20 at the I-Factory in Nanshan District — tickets are available now with an early-bird price of just $139 until April 30. [Full event details here.] TechCrunch China events typically attract more than 5,000 attendees, so act fast to take advantage of this discounted price!
We’ll announce more details about the speaker line-up and the event program in the coming weeks, but for now we can say that the central themes will include artificial intelligence and machine learning, fintech and payments, hardware and internet-of-things, health and biotech, gaming, e-commerce, mobility and transportation and more.

You can expect the blend of top tech industry figures, big companies and upcoming startups that has been the hallmark of our events in Beijing and Shanghai over the past four years. Our 300+ speakers have included Alphabet (Google) executive president Eric Schmidt, Tencent CEO Pony Ma, renowned deal-maker Fan Bao, investor and former Google China head Kaifu Li (pictured above), famed Israeli investor Yossi Vardi and Robot CEO Colin Angle to name just a few.

Related Articles
Sinovation Ventures’ Dr. Kai-Fu Lee is betting big on artificial intelligence
Is LeEco really in trouble?
In Photos: Speakers And Startups From TechCrunch Shanghai 2015

Beyond two days of insightful interviews and panel discussions, TechCrunch Shenzhen will include an exhibition hall, which, at our events in China, typically houses more than 100 startups and tech companies showing off a mix of hardware, software and other innovation.
The VR tech at our last event in Shanghai was particularly memorable, and we have even higher expectations for Shenzhen given its reputation. [If you’re a company and keen to take part, you can find details of how to apply for exhibition space here.] There will also be a pre-event hackathon to kick things off and get us in the mood for the show.
Shenzhen, here we come!!



Our sponsors help make our events happen. If you are interested in learning more about sponsorship opportunities, contact us by filling out this form.
With a letter straight to the top, a group of Marines is demanding that Facebook get a grip on the systemic harassment that plagues its female servicemembers.
In March, Facebook became the epicenter of the Marines United scandal, which exposed a massive online community where users shared often intimate photos of servicewomen without their consent. While such content isn’t limited to Facebook, it has thrived there and continues to do so in the aftermath of the scandal, which the USMC is still struggling to contain.
In a thorough, thoughtfully articulated letter, veteran and Not in My Marine Corps co-founder Erin Kirk-Cuomo calls for Sheryl Sandberg to take a personal interest in fighting the spread of nonconsensual photo sharing and gendered harassment on Facebook:

“We applaud the updates in facial recognition software in an effort to end the sharing of revenge pornography announced by Facebook last week. However, Facebook has been negligent in removing pages, groups, and users, that actively promote nonconsensual intimate photo sharing and incite sexual violence and harassment.
For Facebook leadership to publicize their value to the military family, then ignore its complicity in the misconduct perpetrated by its users is, at best, naive. At its worst, this failure directly contributes to the inescapable sexism that is part of the military culture.”


Sandberg’s interest in gender equality is well established, if at times superficial. As Facebook’s COO, she’s perfectly positioned to put her money where her mouth is — like when she announced the company’s enhanced family leave benefits — but Sandberg rarely wades into Facebook’s messy platform policies around issues like harassment, an area where she could effect real change.






		
In her letter, Kirk-Cuomo argues that Facebook’s failure to act decisively against harassment against its service members is both hypocrisy and implicit approval of the kind of toxic behavior that’s been allowed to run rampant on its platform:
“In the wake of the Marines United unmasking, dozens of similar and copycat groups have been created. The current screening and reporting process remains largely ineffective. I have heard from concerned users that they have been forced to report these pages multiple times a day for weeks in order for Facebook to review the validity of the claims all while hiding behind automated and couched responses. This slow removal process allows this cancer to metastasize.”
Far from just complaining, Kirk-Cuomo offers specific solutions for containing and eradicating the objectionable content, suggesting that Facebook work more closely with military representatives to “quickly eliminate groups, pages, and users” who share and spread content that violates its terms of service. Facebook has an unfortunate tendency to over-rely on its own vulnerable communities to self-police, yet tends to drag its feet when community members report harassment. Considering the scope of its resources, and how indispensable Facebook can be for military families, it’s unfortunate that female Marines now have to shoulder that burden.
“You said in your book Lean In, ‘We cannot change what we are not aware of, and once we are aware, we cannot help but change,'” Kirk-Cuomo writes. “I am making you aware, Ms. Sandberg.”

Featured Image: Anna Albrecht/Flickr UNDER A CC BY 2.0 LICENSE
Today’s Stories 

Instagram Stories hits 200M users, surpassing Snapchat as it copies its AR stickers
Susan Fowler joins Stripe as editor-in-chief of new quarterly publication Increment
Google makes fashion image searches more like Pinterest
Yext shares pop more than 20% in public debut

Credits
Written by: Tito Hamze, John MannesHosted by: Tito HamzeFilmed & Edited by: Joe ZolnoskiTeleprompter: Joe Zolnoski
Notes:

I don’t know what to wear on Crunch Report (It’s a hard decision and I suck at dressing myself). If you are a startup and want to me to wear something mail me an XL T-shirt and I’ll wear it in an episode. I’m not going to mention the company on the shirt in the episode but it will be there. No offensive stuff, it’s totally at my discretion if I wear it. Mail it to me. Thanks <3 Ok, bye.

TechCrunch C/O Tito Hamze
410 Townsend street
Suite 100
San Francisco Ca. 94107
For every bad idea, there’s a crowdsourcing campaign with a soapbox and a big-ass megaphone, ready to make it even worse.
Interested? In case you missed it, it’s not too late to vote to shake up the executive branch — surely the No.1 priority of every red-blooded American in these mostly ho-hum, sleepy times.
As the giant stack of paper behind Office of Management and Budget Director Mick Mulvaney is meant to express, the government is a mess, full of messy paper! Again, the Trump administration invokes paper to convey a sense of vast waste and establishment madness. Just look at it! Disgusting.

“President Trump calls it draining the swamp,” Mulvaney explains, enthusiastically lit by an otherworldly glow. “What it really means is making the government more accountable to you, more effective, and more efficient, and we can’t do that without your help.”
The questionnaire only offers two proper questions:
1) What agency would you like to reform?
and
2) What agency would you like to eliminate?
Got an idea for a new agency? Maybe a new agency tasked with getting rid of old agencies? Well, that’s too bad, you’ll have to write that in.
But don’t worry, if you’re gunning to shred the federal government into so much bureaucratic confetti, you’ve got options. Just select what you want to see go in a drop-down menu of cabinet agencies. You can even select-all!

Remarkably, the drop-down even includes Trump administration faves like entire Department of Defense (sayonara Air Force!!), the Executive Office of the President (uh?) and the probably inconsequential State Department, reportedly already doing whatever it does with a skeleton crew. Appetite for annihilation not quite sated? An additional menu lets you select such hangers-on as the United States Postal Service and NASA.


Not suggesting that anybody does this, but I am amused this is an option https://t.co/KRnEG3EB5C pic.twitter.com/COSIK8Mr5t
— Jacob Harris (@harrisj) April 13, 2017



What will become of these votes is anyone’s guess, but we can only hope it results in a reality TV-style event at which the full staff of the most hated agency drops through a trapdoor, never to be seen again. Really, that would only be a mild if grisly departure from the made-for-TV announcement of Neil Gorsuch.
Don’t forget to vote one agency out of the Beltway by June 12! You can even vote to eliminate the office that brought you the vote, which seems like it would either nullify the results altogether or create a rift in the federal space-time continuum through which more agencies could slip in undetected. May the odds be ever in your favor.


Featured Image: Wikimedia Commons
Baidu is acquiring xPerception, a U.S. startup specialized in computer vision, according to Reuters. Details are sparse, but we know the startup has its own module for object recognition and depth perception that can be deployed on robots and drones.
The Chinese tech giant has been active in machine intelligence M&A this year. Back in February it acquired Raven Tech, a Chinese startup developing its own voice assistant. This new acquisition is notable because it involves a U.S. startup. It also could hold the key to Baidu’s future autonomous driving and augmented reality efforts.
xPerception was founded by Dr. Bao Yingze and Dr. Chen Mingyu, two early Magic Leap engineers. The team is expected to continue its work under the wings of Baidu.
In March, Andrew Ng, Baidu’s chief scientist, left the company to the detriment of its internal machine intelligence efforts. Baidu faces additional barriers that its contemporaries like Google don’t have to face for research and development.
While the AI talent race plays out on a global scale for all companies, its epicenter rests in the United States. xPerception is another U.S. anchor for the company that has been pouring resources into its Silicon Valley AI Lab.
We reached out to the team over at xPerception and will let you know if we hear any additional context.

Featured Image: Bloomberg / Contributor/Getty Images
Speaking at the Center for Strategic and International Studies today, CIA Director Mike Pompeo went off on WikiLeaks. Pompeo is pretty mad about that whole Vault 7 hacking tools data dump, it looks like. “WikiLeaks walks like a hostile intelligence service and talks like a hostile intelligence service,” he declared Thursday. I think he means that it’s a hostile intelligence service!
The declaration marked the Trump intelligence appointee’s first public appearance since taking over at the CIA, as well as a major departure from Trump’s unequivocal “I love WikiLeaks” campaign attitude. Prior to his current role at the head of the CIA, Pompeo was quite happy to cite WikiLeaks to support his hyper-partisan cause du jour, which Maine Senator Angus King brought up during his confirmation hearing earlier this year:


Mike Pompeo was sharing Wikileaks documents on his Congressional Twitter account less than a year ago pic.twitter.com/cl5P6vnXSE
— Jessica Schulberg (@jessicaschulb) April 13, 2017



Now, Pompeo’s tune has changed:

“It is time to call out WikiLeaks for what it really is – a non-state hostile intelligence service often abetted by state actors like Russia. In January of this year, our Intelligence Community determined that Russian military intelligence—the GRU—had used WikiLeaks to release data of US victims that the GRU had obtained through cyber operations against the Democratic National Committee. And the report also found that Russia’s primary propaganda outlet, RT, has actively collaborated with WikiLeaks.”

Pompeo went on to equate Assange’s slapdash WikiLeaks approach with Edward Snowden’s carefully considered and by most accounts legitimate whistleblowing, which naturally he dismissed as “treachery” because it wasn’t “discreet” enough. He went on to mutter some misleading stuff about Snowden’s relationship with Russia:

“When Snowden absconded to the comfortable clutches of Russian intelligence, his treachery directly harmed a wide range of US intelligence and military operations. Despite what he claims, he is no whistleblower. True whistleblowers use the well-established and discreet processes in place to voice grievances; they do not put American lives at risk.”

Pompeo’s definition of a “true whistleblower” aside, he’s mad enough about this leaking business to propose a mostly fangless multi-pronged plan to combat Assange and his ilk.
First, he intends to “[call] out those who grant a platform to these leakers and so-called transparency activists” (we’re not quite sure what that means). Second, he wants to improve “internal mechanisms” for counterintelligence, to be “as clever and innovative as the enemies we face” (okay). Third, he proclaimed that “we can no longer allow Assange and his colleagues the latitude to use free speech values against us” (again, what this looks like in practice against a foreign entity is anyone’s guess). And lastly, he wants to deepen the trust between citizens and the CIA, which honestly is probably a good starting place!
Pompeo’s sickest Assange burns, which are mostly hard to argue with:


“Assange is the darling of terrorists.”
“Assange is a narcissist who has created nothing of value.”
“[His] currency is clickbait; [his] moral compass, nonexistent.”
“I am quite confident that had Assange been around in the 1930s and 40s and 50s, he would have found himself on the wrong side of history.”

Still, in perhaps the most remarkable moments of Pompeo’s speech, he called The Washington Post and The New York Times “legitimate news organizations” and went on to cite criticism of Assange published on The Intercept, one of the most U.S. government-hostile publications of all. Because today is opposite day or a day to look strong on Russia but also those pesky “leakers” (except the ones who do you favors!) or a good day to cover your ass, or really we’re not sure why, it’s just what happened.

Featured Image: Bryce Durbin/TechCrunch
SpotHero is an app that allows you, a driver in search of a space, to reserve and prepay for a spot in a parking garage before you even leave the house. Parking Panda came at the problem from the other direction by focusing on B2B services and event parking. Now, SpotHero has acquired Parking Panda to expand the parking spaces that can be reserved to nearly 5,000 in North America.
Parking Panda may be the business being acquired, but it was no slouch on its own. It had partnered with major-league sports teams and their venues, as well as theaters, convention centers and other event spaces. Parking Panda made moves into Canada in 2016, so the acquisition gives Chicago-based SpotHero an entry into that market as well, bringing the current total of cities using the SpotHero service to 47 in 2017.
The top of the parking company’s food chain will remain unchanged. SpotHero CEO and co-founder Mark Lawrence will continue to be CEO, and Parking Panda CEO and founder Adam Zilberbaum will come along to SpotHero, as will COO James Bain.
In the past five years, SpotHero has raised more than $20 million. The company expects to park 20 million cars in 2017 alone, thanks to this acquisition. And in addition to expanding to new cities, the company is laying the foundation to enable shared driverless autonomous cars to park themselves while the fleet owner or current user pays via app.


You’ve likely never heard of this company if you live inside the Bay Area bubble, but Purple, a totally bootstrapped mattress startup, is using toxin-free, patented technology for a pressureless night’s sleep — and could become the first of the mattress unicorns.
Nearly a thousand miles away from Silicon Valley and just west of Utah’s Great Salt Lake, in practically the middle of nowhere, is the tranquil cow town of Grantsville, population 9,617. It is there, in a warehouse the size of a combined eight Walmarts, you’ll find Purple, a direct-to-consumer mattress startup, hard at work prepping hundreds of thousands of pillows, powerbases and, of course, mattresses, for shipment.
The company started a decade ago in the wheelchair business. It was making a patented cushioning technology to prevent bedsores for those sitting all day. But founders (and brothers) Tony and Terry Pearce noted a shift in the mattress space. It was headed online and a bunch of startups like Casper, Tuft and Needle, Leesa and others were starting to pop up. So the pair decided three years ago to capitalize on the trend by using the same technology used in the wheelchair cushioning to make their own bedding.

That proved to be a smart move, and the company has grown quite a bit because of it. In just the last year Purple went from a team of 30 to 600 people, built out the aforementioned 574,000-square-foot manufacturing facility in Grantsville and, from what I’ve been told, sales are through the roof.
Purple is currently working to fulfill orders for 27,000 of its newly launched pillows and, though the startup was hesitant to give out numbers, a source tells me it’s set to hit $150-$200 million in revenue this year. Compare that to its possibly biggest competitor, Casper, which hit $100 million in cumulative sales in 2016 and reportedly has been on track to hit $200 million by the end of this year.
Update: Casper says it has hit that $200 million sales mark last year, bringing its total revenue to date to $300 million.
But, unlike Casper, which has taken in $70 million in funding so far, Purple hasn’t tapped into venture capital yet. It also owns the manufacturing process from beginning to end. Utah land and labor are both cheap, and the mattress startup can make its products at a much lower cost than Bay Area competitors.
It’s a big job creator for the little town of Grantsville, too, where there aren’t a lot of opportunities for work. Purple will soon be the biggest employer there, with plans to hire another couple of thousand people, and is partnering with the local high schools and training facilities to provide locals the skills they’ll need to help out in the warehouse in the near future.
Thousands of Purple’s mattresses stacked up inside the new 574,000-square-foot warehouse.
Company headquarters are an hour’s drive to the south, in the town of Alpine, situated just beneath Utah’s Wasatch Front, a mountain range from Ogden to Provo that sidles up to what has been dubbed the “Silicon Slopes” due to the state’s vigorous tech growth over the last few years.
Several unicorns dot the area, including Pluralsight, Domo and Accel Capital’s largest investment to date, Qualtrics, which just this week was crowned with a whopping $2.5 billion valuation.

Purple’s CEO Sam Bernards believes his company is well on its way to becoming the next billion-dollar startup in the region, and, if those sales are any indication, he’s probably right. Though Purple has so far taken zero cash from investors, Bernards tells me he’s had some inbound inquiries from Silicon Valley and that it’s something he’d consider in the near future to help the company scale.
Workers rolling up mattresses at Purple’s new mattress factory in Grantsville, Utah.
The mattresses are priced closely to Casper’s. A king bed, for instance, costs $1,300. A Casper king sits just below that at $1,150. However, that’s at the high end for others in the space. Tuft and Needle, another mattress startup based in Phoenix, comes in at $750 for that size.
But Purple is in another league, argues Bernards. For one, it’s designed to prevent bedsores, so it’s a good bet for those who spend a lot of time under the covers. Purple uses a total of 16 patents to make its mattresses soft enough to hug your body, yet firm enough to hold you up through the night. And, should there be an apocalyptic event, you can eat them. The hyperelastic mattress material is made from a food-grade polymer — no latex or other toxic ingredients.
I tested the product myself on a recent visit to Utah. The best way I can describe it is laying on a super soft batch of Jello, but without the seismic wave activity. It compares in comfort to Casper (which I’ve also tried) and my Brooklyn Bedding mattress at home. Each pressure point of my body was cradled in this jelly-like webbed material underneath me, which allows longer hours of comfort and breathability, so you’re not likely to get sweaty under the covers, either.
Purple also gives a 100-day money-back guarantee for those who want to try it out themselves, and says each mattress should last about 10 years, or the average time most people start looking for a new mattress.
Purple’s powerbases, which allow customers to move their mattresses to the sitting or sleeping position.
But it’s not without plenty of competition. Casper is the online mattress startup that had the most brand recognition with people I asked in San Francisco, and, according to Inc., there are more than 600 mattress companies in the U.S., several with brick-and-mortar locations where you can try the mattress and chat with a salesperson.
However, Purple seems to be full steam ahead. It’ll have to speed up to fulfill those back orders, of course, but mix the current growth and interest, ownership of the manufacturing process, the cheaper labor market, unique branding and great sales with future plans to move into global sales, add in some VC funding to help it scale and Purple could be set to rocket past all the others.
Check out the video above for an inside look at what Purple is doing for the town of Grantsville and a chat with its CEO about the mattress business.
*This article is part of a larger series focusing on the Utah tech scene. We’re going to be sprinkling several of these articles and videos throughout the TechCrunch newsfeed for the next couple of weeks, so strap on your ski boots and stay tuned as we guide you through the “Silicon Slopes!”

Featured Image: Felicia Williams



0
SHARES

















Ophir Tanz is the CEO of GumGum, an artificial intelligence company with  particular expertise in computer vision. GumGum applies its capabilities to a variety of industries, from advertising to professional sports across the globe. Ophir holds a B.S. and a M.S. from Carnegie Mellon University and currently lives in Los Angeles.

			More posts by this contributor:			
The Meme Election






Cambron Carter
Contributor


Cambron Carter leads the image technology team at GumGum, where he designs computer vision and machine learning solutions for a wide variety of applications. Cambron holds B.S. degrees in physics and electrical engineering and an M.Eng. in electrical engineering from the University of Louisville. 

If you’ve dug into any articles on artificial intelligence, you’ve almost certainly run into the term “neural network.” Modeled loosely on the human brain, artificial neural networks enable computers to learn from being fed data. 
The efficacy of this powerful branch of machine learning, more than anything else, has been responsible for ushering in a new era of artificial intelligence, ending a long-lived “AI Winter.” Simply put, the neural network may well be one of the most fundamentally disruptive technologies in existence today.
This guide to neural networks aims to give you a conversational level of understanding of deep learning. To this end, we’ll avoid delving into the math and instead rely as much as possible on analogies and animations.
Thinking by brute force
One of the early schools of AI taught that if you load up as much information as possible into a powerful computer and give it as many directions as possible to understand that data, it ought to be able to “think.” This was the idea behind chess computers like IBM’s famous Deep Blue: By exhaustively programming every possible chess move into a computer, as well as known strategies, and then giving it sufficient power, IBM programmers created a machine that, in theory, could calculate every possible move and outcome into the future and pick the sequence of subsequent moves to outplay its opponent. This actually works, as chess masters learned in 1997.*
With this sort of computing, the machine relies on fixed rules that have been painstakingly pre-programmed by engineers — if this happens, then that happens; if this happens, do this — and so it isn’t human-style flexible learning as we know it at all. It’s powerful supercomputing, for sure, but not “thinking” per se.
Teaching machines to learn
Over the past decade, scientists have resurrected an old concept that doesn’t rely on a massive encyclopedic memory bank, but instead on a simple and systematic way of analyzing input data that’s loosely modeled after human thinking. Known as deep learning, or neural networks, this technology has been around since the 1940s, but because of today’s exponential proliferation of data — images, videos, voice searches, browsing habits and more — along with supercharged and affordable processors, it is at last able to begin to fulfill its true potential. 
Machines — they’re just like us!
An artificial (as opposed to human) neural network (ANN) is an algorithmic construct that enables machines to learn everything from voice commands and playlist curation to music composition and image recognition.The typical ANN consists of thousands of interconnected artificial neurons, which are stacked sequentially in rows that are known as layers, forming millions of connections. In many cases, layers are only interconnected with the layer of neurons before and after them via inputs and outputs. (This is quite different from neurons in a human brain, which are interconnected every which way.)
Source: GumGum
 
This layered ANN is one of the main ways to go about machine learning today, and feeding it vast amounts of labeled data enables it to learn how to interpret that data like (and sometimes better than) a human.
Just as when parents teach their kids to identify apples and oranges in real life, for computers too, practice makes perfect.
Take, for example, image recognition, which relies on a particular type of neural network known as the convolutional neural network (CNN) — so called because it uses a mathematical process known as convolution to be able to analyze images in non-literal ways, such as identifying a partially obscured object or one that is viewable only from certain angles. (There are other types of neural networks, including recurrent neural networks and feed-forward neural networks, but these are less useful for identifying things like images, which is the example we’re going to use below.)
All aboard the network training
So how do neural networks learn? Let’s look at a very simple, yet effective, procedure called supervised learning. Here, we feed the neural network vast amounts of training data, labeled by humans so that a neural network can essentially fact-check itself as it’s learning. 
Let’s say this labeled data consists of pictures of apples and oranges, respectively. The pictures are the data; “apple” and “orange” are the labels, depending on the picture. As pictures are fed in, the network breaks them down into their most basic components, i.e. edges, textures and shapes. As the picture propagates through the network, these basic components are combined to form more abstract concepts, i.e. curves and different colors which, when combined further, start to look like a stem, an entire orange, or both green and red apples.
At the end of this process, the network attempts to make a prediction as to what’s in the picture. At first, these predictions will appear as random guesses, as no real learning has taken place yet. If the input image is an apple, but “orange” is predicted, the network’s inner layers will need to be adjusted. 
The adjustments are carried out through a process called backpropagation to increase the likelihood of predicting “apple” for that same image the next time around. This happens over and over until the predictions are more or less accurate and don’t seem to be improving. Just as when parents teach their kids to identify apples and oranges in real life, for computers too, practice makes perfect. If, in your head, you just thought “hey, that sounds like learning,” then you may have a career in AI.
So many layers…
Typically, a convolutional neural network has four essential layers of neurons besides the input and output layers:

Convolution
Activation
Pooling
Fully connected

Convolution
In the initial convolution layer or layers, thousands of neurons act as the first set of filters, scouring every part and pixel in the image, looking for patterns. As more and more images are processed, each neuron gradually learns to filter for specific features, which improves accuracy. 
In the case of apples, one filter might be focused on finding the color red, while another might be looking for rounded edges and yet another might be identifying thin, stick-like stems. If you’ve ever had to clean out a cluttered basement to prepare for a garage sale or a big move — or worked with a professional organizer — then you know what it is to go through everything and sort it into different-themed piles (books, toys, electronics, objets d’art, clothes). That’s sort of what a convolutional layer does with an image by breaking it down into different features.
One advantage of neural networks is that they are capable of learning in a nonlinear way.
What’s particularly powerful — and one of the neural network’s main claims to fame — is that unlike earlier AI methods (Deep Blue and its ilk), these filters aren’t hand designed; they learn and refine themselves purely by looking at data.
The convolution layer essentially creates maps — different, broken-down versions of the picture, each dedicated to a different filtered feature — that indicate where its neurons see an instance (however partial) of the color red, stems, curves and the various other elements of, in this case, an apple. But because the convolution layer is fairly liberal in its identifying of features, it needs an extra set of eyes to make sure nothing of value is missed as a picture moves through the network.
Activation
One advantage of neural networks is that they are capable of learning in a nonlinear way, which, in mathless terms, means they are able to spot features in images that aren’t quite as obvious — pictures of apples on trees, some of them under direct sunlight and others in the shade, or piled into a bowl on a kitchen counter. This is all thanks to the activation layer, which serves to more or less highlight the valuable stuff — both the straightforward and harder-to-spot varieties. 
In the world of our garage-sale organizer or clutter consultant, imagine that from each of those separated piles of things we’ve cherry-picked a few items — a handful of rare books, some classic t-shirts from our college days to wear ironically — that we might want to keep. We stick these “maybe” items on top of their respective category piles for another consideration later.
Pooling
All this “convolving” across an entire image generates a lot of information, and this can quickly become a computational nightmare. Enter the pooling layer, which shrinks it all into a more general and digestible form. There are many ways to go about this, but one of the most popular is “max pooling,” which edits down each feature map into a Reader’s Digest version of itself, so that only the best examples of redness, stem-ness or curviness are featured. 
In the garage spring cleaning example, if we were using famed Japanese clutter consultant Marie Kondo’s principles, our pack rat would have to choose only the things that “spark joy” from the smaller assortment of favorites in each category pile, and sell or toss everything else. So now we still have all our piles categorized by type of item, but only consisting of the items we actually want to keep; everything else gets sold. (And this, by the way, ends our de-cluttering analogy to help describe the filtering and downsizing that goes on inside a neural network.)
At this point, a neural network designer can stack subsequent layered configurations of this sort — convolution, activation, pooling — and continue to filter down images to get higher-level information. In the case of identifying an apple in pictures, the images get filtered down over and over, with initial layers showing just barely discernable parts of an edge, a blip of red or just the tip of a stem, while subsequent, more filtered layers will show entire apples. Either way, when it’s time to start getting results, the fully connected layer comes into play.
Source: GumGum
Fully connected
Now it’s time to start getting answers. In the fully connected layer, each reduced, or “pooled,” feature map is “fully connected” to output nodes (neurons) that represent the items the neural network is learning to identify. If the network is tasked with learning how to spot cats, dogs, guinea pigs and gerbils, then it’ll have four output nodes. In the case of the neural network we’ve been describing, it’ll just have two output nodes: one for “apples” and one for “oranges.”
If the picture that has been fed through the network is of an apple, and the network has already undergone some training and is getting better with its predictions, then it’s likely that a good chunk of the feature maps contain quality instances of apple features. This is where these final output nodes start to fulfill their destiny, with a reverse election of sorts.
Tweaks and adjustments are made to help each neuron better identify the data at every level.
The job (which they’ve learned “on the job”) of both the apple and orange nodes is essentially to “vote” for the feature maps that contain their respective fruits. So, the more the “apple” node thinks a particular feature map contains “apple” features, the more votes it sends to that feature map. Both nodes have to vote on every single feature map, regardless of what it contains. So in this case, the “orange” node won’t send many votes to any of the feature maps, because they don’t really contain any “orange” features. In the end, the node that has sent the most votes out — in this example, the “apple” node — can be considered the network’s “answer,” though it’s not quite that simple.
Because the same network is looking for two different things — apples and oranges — the final output of the network is expressed as percentages. In this case, we’re assuming that the network is already a bit down the road in its training, so the predictions here might be, say, 75 percent “apple” and 25 percent “orange.” Or, if it’s earlier in the training, it might be more inaccurate and determine that it’s 20 percent “apple” and 80 percent “orange.” Oops.
Source: GumGum
If at first you don’t succeed, try, try, try again
So, in its early stages, the neural network spits out a bunch of wrong answers in the form of percentages. The 20 percent “apple” and 80 percent “orange” prediction is clearly wrong, but since this is supervised learning with labeled training data, the network is able to figure out where and how that error occurred through a system of checks and balances known as backpropagation.
 Now, this is a mathless explanation, so suffice it to say that backpropagation sends feedback to the previous layer’s nodes about just how far off the answers were. That layer then sends the feedback to the previous layer, and on and on like a game of telephone until it’s back at convolution. Tweaks and adjustments are made to help each neuron better identify the data at every level when subsequent images go through the network. 
This process is repeated over and over until the neural network is identifying apples and oranges in images with increasing accuracy, eventually ending up at 100 percent correct predictions — though many engineers consider 85 percent to be acceptable. And when that happens, the neural network is ready for prime time and can start identifying apples in pictures professionally.
*This is different than Google’s AlphaGo which used a self-learned neural net to evaluate board positions and ultimately beat a human at Go, versus Deep Blue, which used a hard-coded function written by a human.
Mark Papermaster
Contributor


Mark Papermaster is the chief technology officer and senior vice president of technology at AMD.

We are in the midst of a true inflection point in computing, and the very way we interface with technology daily is changing.
The rapid inclusion of embedded sensors and internet connectivity is turning most of the appliances we use into “smart devices” that can respond to our voice commands, while generating masses of data that is in turn analyzed in edge-of-network hub computers or the cloud.
We are seeing virtual and augmented reality now just starting to ramp adoption, and these technologies require significant compute and graphics processing to have a more real-life experience. This is coupled with the phenomenal advancement in machine learning applications that can be trained to sift through masses of data and deliver timely and context-aware information, or take over mundane tasks. These new applications are challenging the industry to deliver much more computation capability at an improved affordability level.
Supplying this demand for more computation is especially challenging — the Moore’s Law pace of semiconductor advancements has slowed down.

Moore’s Law is defined as the trend for the doubling of the number of transistors on a chip about every two years through ever smaller circuitry, producing greater performance and energy efficiency. It used to be that each generation of semiconductor technology could be relied upon to enable each next generation of a computer chip to be cheaper and faster.
The laws of physics can’t be fooled, and we have reached a level where the miniaturization of transistors is now bumping against physical limits. New semiconductor technology nodes will still bring significant miniaturization and lower power over the next decade, but the cost is increasing and the historical improvements in speed are not achieved.
The laws of physics can’t be fooled and we have reached a level where the miniaturization of transistors is now bumping against physical limits. 
So we face a dichotomy as the historical improvements of Moore’s Law slow, while new compute-intensive applications require exponentially more capability. This is driven by insatiable consumer demand for more data and more data processing, more real-time information and faster services. Self-driving cars, drones and robotics all require massively more real-time information processing, inference and interpretation.
For fail-safe operation or quick responsiveness, the computation can’t all be done in the cloud. We are seeing the need for computation to move out the edge of networks and move closer to the user. Emerging smart applications and AR/VR interfaces require high-performance compute capability to be local — in your car, in your home or business, in a cell tower — yet still connected to the cloud.
The pervasive inclusion of sensors in millions of “Internet of Things” devices, along with the digitization of most aspects of our work and personal lives, have created a data explosion. This massive data trove is driving a need for real-time processing and analytics of massive amounts of data. We want to use this data in new ways with hybrid VR/AR environments that can allow us to visually see overlays of information and mix rendered images with the immediate space we are in. Such demands fundamentally change how we interface with technology and require more teraflops of computing performance.
This power enables virtual and augmented reality to render lifelike images and augmented overlays of contextually relevant information or graphics on top of a real-world view.
The Royal College of Medicine has already recorded surgeries in VR, and you can quite easily imagine an AR overlay providing real-time information to help a surgeon perform with more accuracy. These are truly disruptive applications.

The disruption will affect industry, and after industry, if the computing can stay on pace, how best to keep it going amid the decline of Moore’s Law? How do we provide more compute?
It turns out that there are many more levers that engineers can manipulate to drive future performance gains. This is what I call Moore’s Law Plus. It will require engineers to be more creative and cross-disciplinary and leverage cross-industry collaboration. Moore’s Law Plus opens the door for innovation across four main elements:

Integration of smaller semiconductor devices with new cost-efficient packaging and interconnected technology. This will enable flexibility to put chip technology together in novel ways.
Leveraging a heterogeneous mix of compute processors (CPU and GPU) along with specialized accelerators, and feeding these engines with data from advanced memories.
Open-source software programs and development frameworks that are easy to program and take advantage of heterogeneous compute.
Software application ecosystems that make it easy to program apps using the advanced computation of machine learning, data analytics and the rendering for VR/AR.

In a Moore’s Law Plus era, universities and industry will apply these levers to drive performance forward. On the foundry front, extreme ultraviolet lithography will be an effective technique to drive small process node manufacturing forward, leading to new and smaller transistors. These will be wired together with new metal constructs to lower resistance. There will be further manufacturing advances on semiconductors.
Future applications will require more memory, whether on a PC or mobile device or server. For servers, certain workloads, especially with machine learning, virtualization applications, and database processing, have an insatiable demand for more memory. Yet, our year-over-year density increases for memory have been declining. Once again, innovation is leading to new gains as can be seen with new non-volatile memory, and stacked memory.

There are also advances in packaging with less expensive techniques to connect multiple dies on an organic package. There will be more 3D die stacking of the CPU, graphics, stacked memory and other chip elements connected without the underlying wafer underneath. A little further out is the ability to natively bring optical interconnect right into the die. These are important for performance but also for the flexibility for system design, for new approaches to computing that can efficiently connect more deep, dense non-volatile, persistent memory so content is not lost when you turn off the power.
In my view, the effort to stay on a Moore’s Law Plus growth rate of 18-24 months is all for naught if you cannot make it easy to program these new approaches. The ecosystem is there for CPUs, but if you want to leverage GPUs and other accelerators you need an open approach. Some take a proprietary approach, and it works, but is costly.
AMD co-founded the Heterogeneous Systems Architecture (HSA) Foundation to allow these different technologies — CPU, GPU and fixed-function accelerators, including FPGAs — to work together, share memory and be optimized from a systems standpoint.
To continue advances in a Moore’s Law Plus world requires co-engineering and a cooperative approach across the semiconductor industry with different manufacturers, working with academia, and open standards to create an easy-to-program environment. That is why I’m confident companies will be able to add more transistors, and manage the cost curve.
Put all of this together and it really advances the further acceleration of computing. With Moore’s Law Plus, there’s no drop-off from the Moore’s Law pace, and that will continue to fuel the disruption.

Featured Image: Mick Ryan/Getty Images
Yext, the company that helps businesses power their location data, went public on the New York Stock Exchange today. After pricing shares above the expected range at $11, the price rose 21 percent to $13.29 by the end of the first day of trading.
With a client list that includes Best Buy, McDonald’s and Marriott, Yext is responsible for the location results that appear on search engines, maps and social media. The company recognized early on that consumers would prefer to find nearby locations without visiting brand websites.
In an interview with TechCrunch, CEO Howard Lerman emphasized that Yext plans to evolve beyond location data. They want Yext to be a “knowledge engine,” where they will make it easier to help customers find the best doctor, their ideal automobile or an event to attend.
The IPO raised $115.5 million for the company, and Lerman says they plan to use the capital to further invest in sales and marketing. A large part of their business is convincing large enterprises that Yext provides enough value-add to pay for their services.
Yext brought in $88.6 million in revenue in the nine months ending in October of last year, with losses of $28.6 million for the same time frame. Revenue is up from the $64 million they saw in the same period the year before and losses narrowed to $18.2 million.
Yext previously raised more than $117 million in venture funding at more than a $500 million valuation. The stock market is valuing the company above $1 billion, a favorable sign at a time when there are “down-round IPOs.”
While Yext has focused its efforts on the U.S. markets, Lerman said that they eventually plan to expand more internationally. The IPO “gives us huge awareness everywhere,” he said. 
Sutter Hill Ventures owned 23.6 percent of Yext leading into the IPO. Institutional Venture Partners, Marker Financial Advisors and Insight Venture Partners also had large stakes.
Founded in 2006, New York-based Yext had been planning its IPO for more than two years, Lerman tells TechCrunch. They wanted to “really do this right” and, in addition to the cumbersome process of auditing financials, they had to make sure it was the right time to enter the public markets.
Yext has gone public at a time when the “window” for tech IPOs has re-opened. Snapchat parent Snap ended the hiatus last month; since then MuleSoft, Alteryx and Okta have done IPOs.
Yext isn’t the only venture-backed company to go public this week. Brazilian-based Netshoes also listed on the New York Stock Exchange.
The sporting goods and fashion e-tailer is a leader in Brazil, Argentina and Mexico. The company previously caught the attention of prominent U.S. investors, including ICONIQ Capital and Tiber Global Management.
Netshoes has “the potential to become an Amazon of Brazil,” CEO Marcio Kumrian, tells TechCrunch, although they are focused on higher-margin categories. After pricing at $18 on Tuesday evening, the company was trading down 10 percent to $14.50 by the end of Thursday.
Other IPOs on the horizon include Cloudera and ForeScout.

Featured Image: REUTERS/Brendan McDermid
DJI has announced a new drone in the Phantom 4 lineup.
The Phantom 4 Advanced will take the place of the regular old Phantom 4, which will be discontinued on April 30th when the new version launches. The new drone will cost $1,349 – $50 less than the original Phantom 4’s starting price.
The Phantom 4 Advanced will borrow a bunch of features from the Phantom 4 Pro, which remains on sale for $1,499.
Most notably, the new drone will take the same 1-inch, 20-megapixel sensor that the Pro has. This will let the drone capture 4K video at 60fps. It will also get the intelligent flight modes that the Phantom 4 Pro has which let you pre-program your drone to fly certain routes or follow you around.
What won’t it have? The Phantom 4 Advanced will still only have forward and downwards obstacle avoidance, unlike the Pro version’s backwards and side obstacle avoidance.
But besides that, there’s really not that big of a difference between the two.
It’s one of those things where it would make total sense to save $150 and get the advanced model (and maybe buy an extra battery with the savings). But it also kind of makes total sense to just spend an extra $150 and get the best of the best – especially when you’re already spending so much on a drone.
Essentially this new model makes it even more difficult to decide what to buy.
DJI has always approached their product lineup in this way, especially for the Phantom series. None of them are really that different (except for the old budget-conscious 3 series), and always end up being pretty similarly priced. If DJI ever reduced the Phantom 4 line to just one version not many people would probably care or notice.
Just look at GoPro – the company once sold six different cameras at once – and all of them essentially did the same thing. This led to confusion which probably hurt GoPro’s sales numbers in the long run. Now the company only sells 3 cameras in two body styles.
So DJI, just listen to GoPro CEO Nick Woodman: “When you give consumers too many choices, you confuse them, and they may end up buying nothing.”
What DJI should have done is forgotten about this new advanced version and left the Phantom 4 on sale at a newly reduced price. Anyone who wanted the better camera would have just paid a few hundred dollars more for the Pro, and the majority of customers would be thrilled they are now able to get a Phantom 4. while saving a bunch of money in the process.
And to make your decision even more difficult, DJI will still sell the regular Phantom 4 for 3 more weeks for $1,199. So you essentially have 3 very, very similar drones to pick from all within a $300 price range. Good luck.
Nintendo had a bonafide – and apparent surprise – hit on its hands with the NES Classic Edition. But like all good things, its time is done. This afternoon, the company confirmed with TechCrunch that, “Throughout April, NOA territories will receive the last shipments of Nintendo Entertainment System: NES Classic Edition systems for this year.”
It’s not definitive language. The company won’t officially confirm that its sunsetting the product, but taken with another comment it offered up separately, this month looks like the last time for the foreseeable future those of us in North America will be able to get our hands on the emulator through standard retail channels.
“NES Classic Edition wasn’t intended to be an ongoing, long-term product,” Nintendo of America said in another statement. “However, due to high demand, we did add extra shipments to our original plans.” In other words, consider yourself lucky if you managed to get one the first — or second — time around.
And indeed, the original tongue-in-cheek press release tied to the mini-console points to a limited supply offering aimed at holiday shoppers. Of course, the initial retail bottleneck only served to increase excitement in nostalgia-fueled gen Xers and production was ramped up with a “steady flow of additional systems through the holiday shopping season and into the new year.”
The release did, perhaps, take some of the shine off of the company’s new console, the Switch, with its unbeatable price of 30 (mostly) iconic games packed into a $60 machine. But if Nintendo opts to keep the system dead forever, it certainly feels like it’s cutting off its nose to spit its mustachioed face here.
After all, a hit is a hit – and as it’s happily said with regard to mobile hits like Pokemon Go and Super Mario Run, anything that brings newfound attention to the company’s IP goes a ways toward driving sales of new titles and systems. (The company sold a heck of a lot more copies of Pokémon Sun and Moon than initially anticipated). And the buying frenzy around the Classic almost certainly added to excitement leading up to the Switch’s release.
Meantime, start scouring those store shelves. “We encourage anyone interested in obtaining this system to check with retail outlets regarding availability,” the NOA statement reads. “We understand that it has been difficult for many consumers to find a system, and for that we apologize. We have paid close attention to consumer feedback, and we greatly appreciate the incredible level of consumer interest and support for this product.”
So, farewell NES Classic Edition. Your life was short, but you burned brightly. And now you will be very expensive on eBay.
Tesla is going to show Tesla 3 buyers what their call will officially look like in July, Elon Musk revealed on Twitter on Thursday. The Model 3’s first unveiling took place in April of 2016, where it said cameras weren’t allowed (unless they were built into your phone). Because smartphones are as good as they are, we got a fairly decent look at what the Model 3 looked like at the time, but the car maker isn’t showing off what CEO Elon Musk terms ‘final’ hardware until July: A lot can change in over a year.
The Model 3 has been spotted since April, of course; Tesla has official press images, and had one sitting in a garage at its solar tile product unveiling late last year. The company has also shown off a short video of the “release candidate” version of the car accelerating quickly out of a parking lot, and the car looked relatively similar to what we saw at the unveiling.
More recently, spy shots have also been circulating, as those release candidate vehicles are going through the paces in real-world testing in and around Tesla HQ, where anyone with a camera can snap a spy shot. The images from this Autoblog gallery (more photos at the source) again don’t reveal much in the way of dramatic changes from what was on stage last April, but it does bear a more direct resemblance to the Model S than it did originally, which is likely a good thing given general reaction to the more expensive car’s design.




Surface resemblance aside, Musk and Tesla have taken steps lately to remind people that the Model 3 is not the top-end vehicle in Tesla’s lineup. The CEO said on Twitter in March that the Model 3 is clearly the lower-specced option, despite what some may think about it being some kind of “upgrade” in terms of tech because it follows the Model S chronologically.
In July we should also get clarity on the exact specifications and capabilities of the Mode 3. What we know so far is that it will have a minimum of 215 miles of range from its electric battery, and that it will cost $35,000 U.S. prior to incentives for the base model. Musk also teased a forthcoming “Performance model” in the works, but noted that this wouldn’t be available for sale for at least a year from now.
What will Facebook launch next week at its F8 conference? The schedule reveals plans to give Instagram offline features that are already in testing, opening its Camera Effects Platform to developers so they can create more powerful photo and video overlays for people to use and a Places Graph for developers to do more with Facebook’s location database beyond the existing APIs.
Most of the sessions for the two-day developer conference in San Jose deal with existing products and news. But three jumped out as describing additional functionality not yet announced.

International growth requires rebuilding apps for different locations with different network connectivity conditions. Facebook has had success with versions of Messenger Lite and the 200 million-user Facebook Lite, and has built offline functionality into its main app. Now Instagram appears to be getting some developing-world features in sessions called “Building Offline Experiences for Instagram.” Mashable previously reported the session’s inclusion. The session description reads:

Instagram’s mission is to help people connect through shared experiences. 80% of the community is outside of the US, and as our platform grows, Instagram must perform across an increasing variety of devices and networks to keep people connected. For people in low-bandwidth regions, we’ve begun testing offline experiences that keep the Instagram experience consistent and let people consume and engage with content, even if they don’t have service. In this talk we’ll introduce some of our initial explorations into offline features, and share learnings you can apply to your own apps.


Facebook can’t dream up every possible filter, frame or effect you might want to add to your photos and videos. Last August I wrote Facebook had a huge opportunity to allow developers to contribute effects as part of a “Camera Platform.” In December, Facebook revealed the first tests of a “Camera Effects Platform” in a few non-U.S. countries that lets anyone design and submit a custom overlaid graphic Profile Photo Frame. At F8 it appears Facebook is ready to expand this capability to more serious developers considering it has both an intro and a “Building for the Camera Effects Platform.” That indicates it will expand from a user-facing self-serve design tool for static frames to potentially allow developers to code animated or reactive augmented reality effects as well.
The “Introduction to the Camera Effects Platform” session description reads:

Get Creative With Camera Effects Platform: Camera-first experiences are a great way to keep people engaged. Come learn more about our Camera Effects Platform, a tool you can use to develop and submit frames that can be used by other people with photos and videos they capture and share on Facebook.


Facebook originally launched Places APIs in 2010 for reading and writing to its Places database. But as local businesses ramp up their use of mobile, new opportunities are emerging for surfacing hyper-local content or deals. And location-aware apps could provide users a socially connected view of the world around them. At F8, Facebook seems to be planning a newly revamped “Places Graph” beyond the Places API. That could equip developers with more ways to work with where users and their friends spend time in the physical world.
The “Explore the Power of the Places Graph” session’s description reads:

Power your app with the Places Graph. We’re providing free access to the same place data that powers Facebook, Instagram, and Messenger. Learn how to use data about 140M+ places around the world to create location aware app experiences.

Finally, while Facebook doesn’t say anything about group chat in its “Let’s Chat About Bots” session, last month we reported Facebook will upgrade Messenger’s bot platform to allow developers to extend bots into group chats. There they could provide news updates such as sports scores of a game in progress, or provide delivery status and ETA for food delivery apps from which the whole group is ordering.
We’ll be back next week with extensive coverage of F8, including live updates from the keynote speech at 10am Pacific on Tuesday, April 18th.
Google is getting into the restaurant delivery and home services businesses – nope, not in the U.S., but rather in parts of India. The company has quietly launched a new app called Areo which currently only works in Bangalore and Mumbai, India, allowing users to order meals from nearby restaurants or schedule appointments with local service professionals, including electricians, painters, cleaners, plumbers, and more.
The app was first spotted by The Android Soul blog, then confirmed with Google by The Economic Times.
Areo popped up on the Google Play Store on April 12, 2017, where the company briefly explains how the product works. The idea is to consolidate both food delivery and home services in a single app, where you can search for dishes or restaurants – even filter by vegetarian options – or book appointment times with local pros. Users can also pay in the app, the description indicates, via card, netbanking, or cash on delivery.
With Areo, Google is basically acting as the middleman – that is, it’s not running its own food delivery or home services business, but is rather working with service providers in the area.
Launch partners include UrbanClap and Zimmber on the home services side, and Freshmenu, Box8 and Faasos for food ordering, The ET reports. For payments, it’s working with TimesofMoney’s DirecPay, but not Android Pay, oddly, they also discovered.
Google said it isn’t yet charging its partners for the service, but rather characterized Areo as an experiment.
This isn’t Google’s first time in the delivery space, however. The company continues to operate its rapid-delivery service Google Express in the U.S., which delivers items from stores like Costco, Walgreens, Toys R Us, Petsmart, Whole Foods and several others. That service has had its ups and downs, however, as Google rethought the model. For example, last fall Google announced it was killing the part of the business that would deliver perishables.
Google also isn’t the only major tech company to try to make ordering home services something that can be done from your phone. Amazon, too, operates a Home Services business where customers can search and book with area pros for things like home theater installation, home improvement, assembly, house cleaning, lawn care, and more.
The Areo app is live on the Google Play Store, but only available in the above cities in India. Google has not announced its plans to bring it to other markets at this time.
NASA held a press conference on Thursday to reveal some exciting new discoveries about ocean worlds within our solar system: It has found evidence that suggest a type of chemical energy that can support life exists on Enceladus, one of Saturn’s 62 confirmed moons. The new evidence comes from the Cassini spacecraft, which has been probing Saturn and its natural satellites since 2004 and beaming data back to Earthbound researchers.
The discovery is not a surefire guarantee that there’s life on Enceladus, or anywhere else beyond Earth, but it is the “closest we’ve come, so far, to identifying a place with some of the ingredients needed for a habitable environment,” according to NASA’s Thomas Zurbuchen, as quoted in a press release.
Specifically, hydrogen gas is thought to be coming from sub-sea vents and into the oceans of Enceladus, where it would provide the energy required their to support life forms including microbes. The process by which microbes break down hydrogen and produce methane as a resulting byproduct is thought to be fundamental to how life formed on Earth.
Enceladus is small and ice-covered, as compared to Earth, but it has liquid water, and just about everything required for life. The only ingredients Cassini hasn’t yet confirmed are present are phosphorus and sulfur in the moon’s oceans, but that’s still something researchers studying the planet expect to find, given the apparent geological makeup of Enceladus.
Cassini picked up hydrogen in a plume of gas and other material rising from the ocean that was observed on October 28, 2015. The Cassini craft actually descended into the plume and sampled its makeup, finding chemical mix that included 98 percent water and 1 percent hydrogen, as well as traces of other gases like CO2 and methane.
This graphic illustrates how Cassini scientists think water interacts with rock at the bottom of the ocean of Saturn’s icy moon Enceladus, producing hydrogen gas.Credits: NASA/JPL-Caltech
The plume did not cough up any direct evidence of organic material – which would’ve lent much stronger evidence that it does indeed host life, obviously. But what they did find constitutes a veritable “candy store for microbes,” according to the lead author of the study detailing Cassini’s findings.
NASA also found evidence that Europa, one of Jupiter’s moons, experienced a similar plume that also appears very possibly to have been liquid water emerging from its icy crust. The observation of the plume, which extends about 62 miles above Europa’s surface, was captured by the Hubble space telescope and is detailed in a new separate paper. The plan is to take a closer look at this plume using the Europa Clipper, an exploratory probe similar to Cassini planned for launch in the 2020s.
Like every prior NASA announcement ever, this is not confirmation that there are organisms out there beyond Earth. But it could be the closest we’ve come yet, and it’s definitely reason to celebrate if you’re excited by the idea of extraterrestrial life.

Featured Image: NASA/JPL-Caltech
When it comes to home surveillance cams there are two kinds of cams – low-end, highly-motorized, wireless IP cams that are (typically) fairly insecure and higher-end cloud service systems like Dropcam that offer secure but more expensive cameras. SpotCam seems to land squarely in the middle with their SpotCam Sense Pro line.
I tested two models and found them more than acceptable for home use. The indoor model records 24 hours of video that is available, for free, via the app. It’s also senses temperature and barometric pressure and you can even set it up to sound an alarm if it senses motion at a preset time. The app itself, while not at the cutting edge of aesthetic design, is serviceable at the very least.
The $188.99 outdoor model is a little more interesting. This model is weather and water proof thanks to a number of rubber shields that protect the power ports and the various buttons on the outside of the camera. To set it up you simply plug it into an outlet – I have it connected to an outlet in my garage – and screw the baseplate into a wall. You’ll want to put this thing pretty high because it’s easy to pull off and steal but if hidden in the right foliage you have an inexpensive, unobtrusive Wi-Fi enabled camera that can see quite well in the dark.
Who are these cameras for? Well, first they’re for the price-conscious. If you know you’ll be buying a few of these to install around the house the $200 SpotCam is about as much as the aforementioned Dropcam but if you want extended recording from the Nest product that costs $10 a month, adding quite a bit to your final bill.
As I mentioned before I’ve seen plenty of wireless webcams over the past few years and this one falls firmly in the “nicer, but not that nice” camp. I’d honestly recommend this if you have a garage you’re trying to keep an eye on and aren’t too worried about the bells and whistles you get from better recording services. It also doesn’t quite replace a high-end, secure CCTV system but you could put one or two in your shop to keep a record of the comings and goings. As a home security system I worry that the app is a little too complex and hard to use but you can simply set this thing and forget it and simply use it as a way to watch your house when you’re away.
The SpotCams also work with IFTTT which means you can connect it to your lights, your WeMo power devices, or simply get notifications via other services. It’s a nice addition to a standard webcam.

Can you get a better home webcam with better software? Yes. Can you get a cheaper home webcam with a motorized gimbal and security holes? Sure. Can you set up an outdoor SpotCam to keep an eye on your shed? Absolutely, and that’s what I’d do.




Previous
Next
Exit
Tesla plans to show off an electric pickup truck sometime within the next two years, the company’s CEO Elon Musk said on Twitter today. The pickup was teased originally when Musk revealed the second part of his “master plan” for Tesla, which began with selling expensive vehicles like the Roadster and Model S, and eventually leads to producing a wide range of more affordable vehicles at scale.
The truck was previously described as a “new kind of pickup” by Musk, though he’s alluded to the concept even prior to that. Tesla’s desire to create a pickup makes sense given the success of the category in the company’s home country, and it’s likely planned alongside an upcoming lower cost compact SUV, sometimes referred to the Model Y.
Musk also teased a forthcoming semi truck announcement, set for September, and a convertible version of the Roadster coming in the next iteration of Tesla’s first vehicle, which is a high priced car targeted at luxury buyers.
There’s also good news for those customers still hoping to receive their Model 3 pre-orders relatively soon: The final reveal of the production version of the Model 3 is coming in July, Musk said, which would fit with reports of multiple prototypes on the streets around Tesla HQ, and its anticipated shipping timeline, which should see the first units go out to customers by the end of this year.
Musk has said that by offering the Model 3, along with the Model S and Model X premium vehicles, it should be able to offer a future compact SUV and a pickup to cover most of the available consumer market. For lower cost segments, he believes that group transportation options, including a forthcoming shuttle bus vehicle for multi-passenger transit, is the better way to go vs. lower coast consumer cars.
Lead image is a Model P concept by Tesla Motors Club user McHoffa.
Developing…
“I don’t know if I’m allowed to say…”
In an interview about his thoughts on the next big things in tech, Golden State Warriors small forward Andre Iguodala gushed on augmented reality and undoubtedly skated the lines of violating his Magic Leap NDA as he described his demo with the product, which he called a “disruption of life.”
The NBA star talked to CNET’s Brian Tong about his demo with the Florida-based augmented reality company, which has raised more than $1.4 billion from prominent backers like Google, Alibaba and Andreessen Horowitz.
Iguodala gave some interesting insight into what a Magic Leap interface might look like, saying that in one demonstration he stuck his hand out and a character appeared in his hand that acted as a digital assistant for the device, something Iguodala compared to Apple’s Siri. He referenced the character’s ability to control smart-home devices, as well as other aspects of the operating system.
Perhaps most interesting was Iguodala’s assertion that many things in his demo were controlled by eye movements, saying that you could use your gaze to control items in your environment such as turning off your lights by looking at them or adjusting the temperature in your home using only eye controls.
Magic Leap has had its fair share of setbacks over the past several months as details have emerged that the company is having some difficulty miniaturizing the light field display tech it is planning to build into its finished consumer product. Eye-tracking has interestingly been listed as one way that Magic Leap may be able to “cheat” on implementing light field tech and switch the focal planes of the display based on where the user is looking at a given time.
Many have detailed that their demos with the company took place using a much larger helmet-like device attached to a powerful computer; Magic Leap hopes to ship with a very small form factor featuring smaller glasses attached to a belt pack that holds much of the compute and battery power. Iguodala reiterated the tiny size of what Magic Leap hopes to ship.
“The actual device is so small — the one that’s going to come to market — it’s almost like you have a pair of sunglasses on,” he said.
Magic Leap seems to enjoy celebrity attention. As for the reason that the basketball player was brought down to check out the demo, Iguodala detailed that the team at Magic Leap was “interested in doing some stuff with sports.” In February, Business Insider reported that Magic Leap had put a demo together for Beyoncé, which she allegedly was not impressed with; that doesn’t seem to be the case for Iguodala.
Microsoft’s biannual transparency report was just released and, like many other major tech companies that have been putting out their reports recently, the company has revealed its first National Security Letter.
The FBI uses NSLs to secretly obtain from tech companies investigative information about their customers. The letters do not require judicial approval and are often accompanied by gag orders that prevent companies from ever speaking about the legal process, but with the passage of the USA Freedom Act in 2015, the FBI is now required to periodically review the gag orders. Yahoo, Google, Cloudflare and the Internet Archive have all published NSLs over the last year.
Microsoft’s fight to be more transparent about government requests for user data has been brewing for years. In 2014, the company successfully pressured the FBI into withdrawing an NSL targeting an enterprise customer, and last year it sued the Justice Department over gag orders pertaining to other types of requests for user data. (Other companies are challenging NSLs too — Cloudflare and CREDO Mobile recently argued against NSL gag orders in the 9th Circuit.)
The NSL published by Microsoft was issued in January 2014 and targeted a user of its consumer products, the company says.
“Microsoft is the latest in a series of companies able to disclose an NSL due to provisions in the USA Freedom Act requiring the FBI to review previously issued non-disclosure orders,” Microsoft director of corporate responsibility Steve Lippman said in a blog post. “The reforms in the USA Freedom Act were a positive step forward and we believe reasonable limits on the routine use of government secrecy should be adopted more broadly. There are times when secrecy is vital to an investigation, but too often secrecy orders are unnecessarily used, or are needlessly indefinite and prevent us from telling customers of intrusions even after investigations are long over.”
Between July and December 2016, Microsoft received 25,837 requests for data from law enforcement agencies around the world. The requests targeted 44,876 user accounts; Microsoft provided metadata for 64.33 percent of the requests and content for 3.66 percent of requests. It rejected 15.54 percent of requests and found no responsive data for the remaining requests. Lippman said that the majority of the requests came from the U.S., United Kingdom, France and Germany. The total number of requests fell slightly in 2016 to 61,409, down from 74,311 in 2015.
Microsoft also disclosed data about content removal requests from governments and users. China was the most frequent requester for content removal, issuing 418 take-down requests.

Related Articles
Google just published eight National Security Letters
Cloudflare explains how FBI gag order impacted business
Twitter releases national security letters
Cloudflare and CREDO are still gagged from talking about national security letters
USA Freedom Act allows Yahoo to disclose 3 National Security Letters

Following the passage of the Right To Be Forgotten in the E.U., many individuals in Europe have begun requesting that search engines scrub their data. U.K. residents were the most frequent requesters, followed by France and Germany — but Microsoft doesn’t honor most of the requests, with acceptance rates hovering around 30 percent.
Microsoft tallies requests from revenge porn victims, as well, a process it started in 2015. During the six-month reporting period, it received 580 requests to take down revenge porn and complied with 51 percent of them.
So what are we supposed to make of all this data?
“We are hopeful that this data disclosure can better inform all sides in the critically important public discussion about how best to strike the balance between the privacy of our customers and the legitimate needs of law enforcement agencies that protect and serve their citizens,” Microsoft says.

Featured Image: StockStudio/Shutterstock
Elon Musk just let us know when we’ll get a look at the electric semi truck that he’s teased in the past: The Tesla transport vehicle will be revealed in September, the CEO said on Twitter on Thursday, noting that the team has “done an amazing job” and that the vehicle is “seriously next level.”
Plans at Tesla for an electric semi truck have been in the works for a while now: The vehicle was first mentioned back in July of 2016, when Musk revealed part 2 of his fabled “master plan” for his electric vehicle company. The Tesla Semi, as Musk called it, is designed to help reduce the cost of cargo transportation, and improve safety for drivers, according to the CEO at the time.
Tesla’s not the only company targeting electric drivetrains for transport vehicles; Nikola revealed its One vehicle last year, too, though that’s a hybrid that also uses compressed natural gas in addition to its electric battery.
Tesla’s goal overall is to “expand to cover the major forms of terrestrial transport,” according to Musk’s “master plan,” and the transport truck is part of that goal. It addresses commercial goods transportation, which represents a significant portion of the commercial transport market; Musk has also teased that the company will eventually reveal a shuttle bus-type of vehicle that will address the other major aspect of that market.

Featured Image: View Apart/Shutterstock (IMAGE HAS BEEN MODIFIED)
You might have noticed: private equity firms love them some technology companies. According to new Pitchbook data, one-fifth of all U.S. private equity deals in the first quarter of this year centered on companies in the IT sector.
That’s up from the 10 to 15 percent range over the last 10 years, with the most popular targets being software companies; they’ve made up 54.2 percent of all PE investments in the broader tech space since 2006, and 63 percent of the transactions since early last year, says Pitchbook.
It’s easy to see their appeal to PE firms, including those companies controlled by other PE firms, those backed by VCs and those that have gone public already but have seen their share prices plateau (or worse). What they share in common: investors looking to get out so they can fund the next shiny thing.
One case cited by Pitchbook is the 2012 buyout and subsequent IPO of unglamorous consumer credit data company TransUnion. Owned at the time by Madison Dearborn Partners and the Pritzker family, Goldman Sachs acquired it, sunk a bunch of money into the business and took it public three years later. In the process, reports the WSJ, TransUnion had “become a data-mining machine, gathering billions of seemingly insignificant tidbits about ordinary Americans that it analyzed and sold to lenders, insurers and others.” All told, says the WSJ, Goldman is expected to make five times its initial $550 million investment in the company.
Venture-backed tech companies that aren’t quite ready to withstand sustained public shareholder scrutiny are other great targets, as Brian Ruder, co-head of technology at the global PE firm Permira discussed with us recently. The idea is for the PE firm to buy a controlling stake and, in the process, gobble up the shares of early investors. Afterward — as with that TransUnion deal — money is reinvested into the company to make it more valuable to a subsequent acquirer or public shareholders.
In 2014, for example, Permira invested $200 million to acquire a controlling stake in LegalZoom, an online service that helps people create their own legal documents. LegalZoom had filed to go public in 2012 with much fanfare, but pulled its offering in the wake of Facebook’s seemingly troubled IPO. With antsy shareholders, Permira was able to swoop in, buy out some of those investors, and turn LegalZoom’s transaction business into a subscription business that’s ostensibly far more valuable. LegalZoom hasn’t gone public yet or been re-acquired, but “if it does go public, it will be a much bigger, healthier company,” says Ruder.
Of course, much of the attention in recent years has centered on publicly traded tech companies and their tie-ups with PE. Though we generally assume that publicly traded tech companies will remain publicly traded, a spate of headline-grabbing deals last year proved that supposition wrong, including the visual analytics company Qlik Technologies’ sale to Thomas Bravo, and the marketing software company Marketo’s sale to Vista Equity Partners.
Now, the streaming music service Pandora is reportedly talking with private equity firms to expand its business, too. According to a new report in the New York Post, the company is talking with Providence Equity Partners, Silver Lake and KKR, among others, about being thrown a lifeline.
Indeed, just as private equity firms are searching for new ways to wring money out of tech companies, tech companies are increasingly open to taking money from well-heeled PE players, and no wonder. Reportedly, there’s $820 billion of PE capital sitting on the sidelines right now. That is a lot of dry powder. (It’s not an apples-to-apples comparison, but in 2015, a peak investing year for VCs, they put less than $60 billion to work.)
The Financial Times even sees the amount as  troubling for a variety of reasons. Among them: Because PE firms have record amounts of money at their disposal, they’ve been able to borrow nearly unheard-of sums from banks, giving them reason to look high and low for candidates and, in some cases, overpay. (Last year, when Vista Equity Partners acquired the event management company Cvent, it paid one of the highest multiples ever paid in a private equity takeover in tech.)
It raises the question of whether many of these deals will make sense in retrospect.
Either way, with so much money sloshing around, the trend doesn’t look to be ending any time soon.

Featured Image: VooDoo13/Shutterstock
All right, startup guys and gals. Time is almost up.
Disrupt NY 2017 is literally right around the corner. Soon, thousands of tech enthusiasts, investors and entrepreneurs will descend on Manhattan’s Pier 36 for the best startup show in the Big Apple.
Will you be among them?
If so, you’re definitely going to want to act fast. Tomorrow is the last day to save $1,000 on Disrupt NY tickets before the price jumps to $2,995 starting Saturday, April 15. You can get your tickets over on our ticketing page here.
That ticket is your all-access pass to all the great things taking place at this year’s Disrupt.
With your Early Bird ticket, you’ll get to check out and mingle with the hundreds of startups that will be pitching their products and services to the thousands of attendees walking through Startup Alley and Hardware Alley, hear from the experts in a series of interviews and fireside chats with some pretty awesome speakers, and keep the networking going long into the night with the many After Parties that take place after the show floor closes up for the night.
Plus, you’ll get to take in the illustrious Startup Battlefield competition, in which a dozen startups pitch their companies to our panel of judges in the hopes of winning the highly coveted Disrupt Cup and the $50,000 main prize. The Battlefield is easily the best startup competition in the industry, and it’s something you’re really going to want to witness for yourself.
So, what are you waiting for? You have just two more days to get your Disrupt NY tickets and save $1,000 in the process, so be sure to get over to our ticketing page today before prices jump by a full $1,000 on Saturday.
Disrupt NY 2017 takes place May 15-17 at Pier 36 in Manhattan. We hope to see you all there.
Our sponsors help make Disrupt happen. If you are interested in learning more about sponsorship opportunities, please fill out this form and our sponsorship team will get back to you.
Christopher Ward is a relative newcomer to the watch scene and has long produced simpler, less expensive pieces for the fashion set. Now, after a bit of a rebirth, the British company is finally releasing pieces a techie would love.
Take the euphoniously-named C60 Trident Chronograph Pro 600, a $1,750 watch with a large, thick 43mm case made of stainless steel, a ceramic bezel, and a nice, self-winding ETA Valjoux 7750 movement. What does all of that mean? That for about $2,000 you can get a watch that is on par with the Omega Seamaster chrono or any other higher-end, non-diver chronograph watch that you’d find in your local jewelers.

First, let’s discuss why this is pretty cool. First, it’s a rugged chronograph – or stopwatch-like – piece with a water resistance to 600 meters. It also includes a helium release valve to vent out air pressure if you do, indeed, go down to 600 meters, something that rarely happens with watches like these. Further, it is very well lumed with plenty of Superluminova on the hands so they can be read in low light. It has a clever running seconds hand that is supposed to look like it’s “breathing” – there’s a little disk that shows and hides a lumed surface – and the tulip hour hand and sword minute hand are bright and bold.
All of this adds up to a good, solid tool watch, a watch you can wear daily without worrying that you’ll get it scratched or ruined because, at $2,000, you’re not paying very much for a solid piece.

The C60 is nice little watch. The aesthetician in me doesn’t quite like all the clashing styles – a diver chrono with baroque hands and a deeply guilloched face with the nearly Comic Sans Christopher Ward logo stuffed in the corner. However, the watch generally has a “steampunk meets yachtmaster” sort of vibe which could be appealing to some. It is a far cry from the workaday austerity of the aforementioned Seamaster and it’s as far from the barebones style of the Orange Monster. However, if this diver floats your boat, as it were, give it a look.


Ultimately liking a watch like this comes down to personal taste. As in laptops, watchmakers have a set pre-made movements that they stick into custom cases. In the pantheon of laptop manufacturers, this CW would be a smaller-named, British only brand that makes odd gaming machines for a dedicated audience. A company like Breitling would be the Sony of the watch world and Fossil would be the bargain basement HP you get from work.
There are cheaper chronographs out there and there are better-known brands from which you can buy but Christopher Ward has made some interesting moves recently and I’m happy to report that the C60 is one of their better ones.
Honda has turned its Silicon Valley Lab into a new company officially called Honda R&D Innovations, Inc., but known colloquially as Honda Innovations. The company will pursue research and product development beyond just cars, and will also look to partner with startups and other companies on future projects, Honda says.
Honda Innovations will still be headquartered in Mountain View, and its new CEO is the former senior program director of Honda Silicon Valley Lab, Nick Sugimoto, so it definitely inherits a lot from its previous incarnation. The company will spearhead development of projects looking at IoT and connected vehicles/cities, human machine interface projects, robotics and machine intelligence including AI, as well as personal mobility and sharing economy services. The new company will also be the contact point for ongoing discussions with Waymo about integrating the Alphabet-owned company’s self-driving tech in future Honda vehicles.

The new entity will also oversee Honda’s Developer Studio and Xcelerator programs, which focus on software application creation for Honda’s various platforms, and on providing early- to late-stage startups with funding and support, respectively. Basically, this is Honda’s U.S.-based tech subsidiary, something which a lot of automakers are creating to one degree or another.
AFK, BRB, in a coffee meeting or what not — Slack, with its constant stream of communication, is probably not the the first place you’d drop an away message or status update to keep people informed of what you’re up to.
All that is probably something you’d throw in some other threaded internal communications product that sits perpetually at the top of a page or is easily searchable. That’s probably especially true as companies get larger and communication channels get more out of hand. But Slack is hoping to figure out some way to introduce that kind of employee interaction into a product that could quickly devolve into message mayhem in a way that won’t get lost in a stream of messages (or GIFs, assuming they’re not banned in your channels).

Related Articles
Slack developers get another small tool to fill out their bot functionality
Google goes after Slack and splits Hangouts into Chat and Meet
Slack launches threaded messaging to take conversations off to the side
To do that, Slack is adding its own flavor of status updates and away messages. Users can hover over an emoji next to a name to get an idea of what an employee is up to — such as getting their teeth drilled at a dentist or out at a retreat. They can add a 100-character description of why they can’t respond to a message with an emoji of their choice (like an airplane if the Wi-Fi isn’t working or something to that extent).
Perhaps more interesting in this update is that Slack is also opening the feature to third-party developers to automatically set statuses. In a blog post, Slack pointed to a feature that allows Zenefits to automatically set an away message when someone is logging vacation through Zenefits. This is going to give developers yet another touch-point into the platform that is increasingly hot in Silicon Valley but still has to breach into the real world of massive companies that may be sticking to more traditional internal communications channels.

Slack earlier this year introduced threaded messages in an attempt to give Slack a more persistent and permanent home for certain conversations. Status updates, to some extent, are also not too dissimilar — they exist as some semi-permanent home for communication of an employee’s current situation in a static way to coworkers. Slack, it would seem, is trying to become more of a home page of internal communication instead of a messaging client. That’s going to be important going forward as it tries to woo people away from existing products.
Slack, which at times may seem apprehensive about introducing product updates, seems to also be adding a good deal of incremental features in the past few weeks. Earlier this week it further opened up tools to developers that allows them to make Slack bots more interactive with drop-down menus.
Stripe today is launching a new quarterly publication called Increment, featuring opinion pieces, expert interviews and how-to guides targeted at an engineering audience. To manage the site and all the content being produced for it, the company announced it hired Susan Fowler as editor in chief.
The idea behind Increment was to create a standalone site to explore different topics that are important to software engineers and teams. It’s designed to act as a sort of central repository for Stripe and others in the industry to share knowledge, including tips and best practices for building software and scaling tech businesses.
At the helm is Fowler, an engineer and author who has literally written the book on building standardized systems within software teams and has worked at tech companies like Plaid, PubNub and Uber. Most recently, however, Fowler has been in the public eye after publishing a blog post publicly accusing Uber HR of ignoring multiple reports of sexual harassment and sexism within the company.
That post has been part of a larger series of scandals and setbacks for the ride-hailing company. Fowler, meanwhile, has been working at Stripe and trying to get Increment off the ground. She was not available for interview, in part due to legal concerns related to the ongoing investigation into her claims.
According to a Stripe representative, the framework for the site came about after Fowler and Stripe co-founder Patrick Collison met to discuss her blog and writing. That ended up leading to a discussion around what would later become Increment. In coming up with their blueprint, they were inspired by sites like High Scalability, DZone, InfoQ, the C2 Wiki and Y Combinator’s The Macro.
While it might seem strange for Stripe to be launching a site offering advice and tips around developing software at scale, it’s part of a broader initiative to build tools for knowledge sharing within the tech community. To that end, the company recently launched a forum as part of its Stripe Atlas program, and also announced that it acquired knowledge-sharing community Indie Hackers earlier this week.
For Increment, the plan is to focus on a particular theme with each issue. This quarter, the publication is all about how software teams deal with on-call and incident response, but a spokesperson says Stripe intends to share themes for upcoming issues on the site and will encourage readers to submit proposals for feature and future opinion pieces.
One of the key selling points for Hulu’s forthcoming live TV service – which we’ve now heard will be $39.99 per month to start – is its promise of better, more accessible customer service compared to what’s offered today by traditional cable TV providers. This morning, Hulu announced a development related to those efforts, with news that it’s opening a “Viewer  Experience Operations” headquarters in San Antonio, Texas later this year that will bring over 500 jobs to the area by 2018.
There are now a bevy of rival services aiming to replace your cable TV provider – Sling TV, PlayStation Vue, DirecTV NOW, YouTube TV, and, soon Hulu (not to mention rumored plans from Comcast and Verizon*). Ultimately, these services will end up with roughly comparable channel lineups and pricing. That means consumers opting to forgo cable for live TV via the internet will be making their decisions based on other factors – like the user interface and experience, the premium features (like the cloud DVR or concurrent streams), and more.
For Hulu, it has a few major selling points it’s focused on: rethinking the interface for live TV to feel more modern and mobile – as with its real-time alerts for programming, for example – as well as its ability to offer both a subscription video on-demand library alongside live TV under one roof and price plan.
In addition to this, the company has made customer service a priority for its forthcoming live TV offering. The idea is that dealing with customer support issues shouldn’t be as painful as it is today with traditional providers – like, say Comcast, for example.
Hulu already said it would offer subscribers 24/7 customer service ahead of the launch of its live TV service, it told Reuters last month. The company today has 150 reps who work remotely, Variety reports, and most of these people will move to the new Texas location. The new customer service HQ will grow to include over 300 jobs this year, and will reach 500 the following year, the company says today.
While not necessarily a feature people first think about when choosing a streaming TV provider, the investment in customer service could ultimately help Hulu better convince existing cable or satellite TV subscribers to cut the cord, and it could help retain users who face issues with Hulu’s service.
Many of the live TV services have struggled with glitches at launch as the company adjusts to the onslaught of new users pounding their servers. This can be a frustrating experience.
Sling TV, notably, had crashed repeatedly at inopportune times in its early days back in 2015, though the service has since largely stabilized. More recently, new DirecTV NOW subscribers became so incensed with that service’s glitches, freezes and other bugs, that some even reported its owner AT&T to the FCC, complaining that they were unable to get refunds, despite its lack of usability.
Hulu is looking to head off any similar issues by making quality service a core part of its offering – helping customers with glitches before they start complaining on social media, or worse, just canceling.
“One of our key values at Hulu is putting the viewer first, and vital to that is crafting and delivering an extraordinary customer experience,” said Ben Smith, Head of Experience at Hulu, in a statement. “In addition to building a great product, we’re building an infrastructure that allows us to provide the most personal, responsive and knowledgeable customer support for our viewers,” he added.
 
The new service center will help Hulu customers with any issues via phone support, email, virtual chat, and social media platforms, Hulu says. It notes this consolidation will result in “superior customer service” and “faster responses.” (“…than cable TV companies’ customer service” is the part of the sentence left unsaid, but clearly implied.)
In addition to handling inbound support requests, the service center’s staff will also conduct outbound customer communication and account analysis, Hulu says.
 
Founded in 2012 with the small goal of enabling connectivity-free communication, goTenna has ballooned to more than 23 employees and delivered real hardware to market in the process. Today the startup is adding another $7.5 million to its coffers in the form of a Series B led by Union Square Ventures.
goTenna’s full suite of products effectively convert phones into walkie-talkies, allowing them to communicate with other local goTenna-equipped phones. The Brooklyn-based startup is targeting both consumers and enterprises, but the latter is where they are most poised to shine going forward. An alternative communications network is cool for a weekend expedition, but mission critical for governments and other emergency response teams.
Team goTenna at REI
With just $16.8 million in total financing, including today’s round, the startup has been able to develop three products: goTenna, goTenna Mesh and goTenna Pro. The first of these serves the aforementioned U.S. consumer population, while Mesh benefits both domestic and international users and Pro supports the public safety and enterprise communities. goTenna Mesh is set to ship late this spring, while the goTenna Pro suite will ship later in the fall/winter.
Though goTenna is a hardware startup at heart, it has been making efforts to diversify its revenue stream. Last fall, it launched its services-based business called goTenna Plus. That service unlocks offline mapping, read receipts and location tracking, among other things.
Beyond services, goTenna will also need to execute in international markets. In a phone interview, CEO Daniela Perdomo told me that operating at-scale internationally will mean building out its supply chain without sacrificing responsiveness.
“We have been in R&D mode for a long time,” Perdomo says. “We sold millions of dollars’ worth of product organically and we continue to be an R&D organization.”
Perdomo, who doesn’t enjoy fundraising, took a fairly traditional approach to it — aiming to raise 50 percent more money than she thought the company needed for the next 18 to 24 months. Perdomo was also quick to highlight her belief that the startup is on a clear path to being self-sustaining.
Today’s Series B also included participation from existing goTenna investors, including  Walden Venture Capital, MentorTech Ventures, Bloomberg Beta, BBG Ventures and Collaborative Fund.

Featured Image: gotenna.com
Apple has officially dropped the iTunes branding from its Podcasts app. It’s small change, and one that arrived with little fanfare from the company, outside of a few tweets from the department’s marketing head. But it certainly streamlines the offering a bit, keeping it in line with Apple Music and separating it out (in name at least) from the more legacy iTunes line.
As 9 to 5 Mac notes, the rebrand could be part of a renewed interest in the podcasting space for the company, in line with “new features” promised by Eddy Cue a month or so back.
And now would certainly be a good time for Apple to commit itself more fully to the space, as podcasts become an increasingly important part of the media narrative through shows like This American Life’s wildly popular S-Town, which current monopolizes the top seven slots on the iTunes charts.


It's official: iTunes Podcasts is now @ApplePodcasts. 
Podcasters, we've got a great new badge to help you promote your shows. 💜📻 pic.twitter.com/c9ZWVmSCsq
— Steve Wilson (@StephenWilson) April 13, 2017



Apple is certainly well positioned to continue to own the category moving forward, though a renewed focus on that front would be welcomed as more companies like Spotify and Google have shown an increased interest in the space. Part of the new branding is a new badge, designed to promote the service through podcast pages.
While Apple, naturally, won’t discuss its future plans, the branding is also interesting so far as the future of iTunes as its own category is concerned. The music software played a major role in reviving Apple’s fortunes alongside the iPod, but while the company has mostly moved away from the standalone music player, iTunes continues to play a major role in its software ecosystem.
The company has already taken an important step in that direction when it opted for the simple Apple Music name after the Beats acquisition. The shift in name for Podcasts seems in keeping with that streamlining of the company’s audio offerings.
 
LVH, the parent of 55 Capital, has raised $10 million in Series A funding to build out its technology platform for investors and further its financial research.
Point72 Ventures, the venture capital fund associated with billionaire Steven Cohen, is participating in the round. Others include Calibrate Management and Tectonic Ventures.
55 Capital has been working on a product that makes it easier for asset managers and other investors to build custom portfolios. They specialize in evaluating ETFs and the team has significant prior experience in the category. LVH co-founder Lee Kranefuss previously started iShares.
There’s a “big gap between the investment science getting done and what’s actually getting into the hands of the broader market,” said Dr. Vinay Nair, co-founder of LVH. “We allow them to turn their own dials and design their own flavor of their strategy,” determining the mix of stocks, bonds and other investment categories.
They are working to integrate their technology with some of the industry’s enterprise software platforms. Other clients include wealth management firms and hedge funds.
Their core business model draws similarities to asset managers, where they charge fees based on the assets they manage or advise. The offerings can be white labeled or co-branded.
LVH is a holding company and 55 Capital was established in late 2015. 55 Capital’s CEO is Bruce Lavine, former president of Wisdom Tree.
Motif Investing, Wealthfront and Betterment are amongst the startups that are trying to shake up the investment space. 55 Capital is not classified as a roboadvisor as the investment strategies aren’t purely automated, but it does plan to work with companies in that category.
The best investment solution is going to be “some mix of man and machine,” predicted Nair. 
Matthew Rhodes-Kropf, managing partner at Tectonic Ventures, said that he invested in LVH because he believes it’s the “right time” to improve financial investment technology and “these seems like the right guys.” He said that there’s been a lot of great research that isn’t readily accessible. We “have all these fresh ingredients but we don’t have the recipe.”
LVH plans to use some of the capital to make acquisitions on the “advisory side of the business,” said Nair. They want to continue to build out more product offerings.
The company has offices in New York, San Francisco and Mumbai.

Featured Image: Bryce Durbin
PlayStation’s streaming TV service Vue is getting content that could be very near and dear to many users’ hearts: ESL’s esportsTV. LA-based ESL counts itself the world’s largest esports company worldwide, and it esportsTV channel will broadcast 24/7 esports content via a linear channel for the first time ever in the U.S.
The launch is coming soon, and will arrive in time for the May 4th kick-off of Intel Extreme Masters’ 12th season, which sounds like absolute crazy talk to me since I don’t watch esports and had no idea any of this even existed prior to today.
I’m increasingly in the minority in my ignorance, of course, and esports is a growing industry with audiences that can rival popular traditional sports (which I also don’t watch). ESL cites Activate’s Tech and Media Outlook 2017 survey, which notes that esports audiences will eclipse those of the finals for big U.S. leagues like the MLB, NHL and NBA.
EsportsTV is going to be on Vue as part of the ‘Elite’ tier of pgoramming, and works with features including the service’s cloud DVR and multiple simultaneous streams. It’s perfect for binging on pro esports alongside Twitch and other options, but I’m curious what we’ll see with pick-up here, since Vue straddles both traditional TV and the post cord-cutting worlds.
There’s no shortage of currency converter apps for travelers to load onto their iPhones, but there’s also no shortage of badly designed currency converter apps — so the simplicity and speed of this nicely designed newcomer Elk stands out. Which perhaps explains why its app icon is a bull elk, rather than a boring currency symbol.
Instead of having to manually enter values to convert, the app automatically presents a list of 10 values in set increments (e.g. ones, tens, hundreds, thousands and so on) in the first currency, along with the conversion for each listed value in the second.
To bump up the value of the entire list by a factor of 10 you simply swipe left. For another 10x, swipe left again. You can keep swiping until the largest number in the list hits 100 billion. Then swiping right bumps all the values back down by 10x, til you’re at the smallest units list.
So it’s basically a super speedy way of getting at a glance rates tables.
If you want to convert smaller increments than are listed at first glance you can also tap (or use a long press on the iPhone 6s or later to peek via 3D Touch) on the closest number to the figure you’re trying to convert to pop open another list of in-between values, plus their conversions.
And while you can’t enter an even more specific value — say, £4.23 — you’ll get something close enough (£4.20) to be good enough for most on-the-fly currency conversion needs. And you’ll get it without having to fiddle around with numerical keypads. It’s all controlled with a few swipes and taps. Hence the team billing the app as the “fastest way to convert currencies on your trips.”
Currency rates come from CurrencyLayer, and are updated hourly — which the team reckons is “sufficient” for this traveler convenience-focused use-case. That focus is also why you won’t find Bitcoin in the list of available currencies, either.
The app automatically selects the first two currencies to display and convert based on your location and phone settings.
You can swap their order (by tapping on the currency code at the top of the list), and — in the Pro version — select additional currencies to convert, as well as also set custom conversion rates.
The basic app is a free download, with a two-week trial of Elk Pro where you have access to all currencies. After the trial Pro is a $3.99 in-app purchase.
Given the swipe- and tap-based interface, Elk also looks well- suited for owners of the Apple Watch. Users can tap, swipe and rotate the Digital Crown to convert currencies on their wrist where typing or tapping on numerical keypads would be even more fiddly.
“There are a lot of currency apps. Elk is more focused for travelers, and especially those with an Apple Watch. It’s hard to find a good watch app, and we feel this is a perfect fit for it,” developer Hon Cheng tells us.
Nor is this the first nicely designed app we’ve seen from the Singapore-based developer duo behind Clean Shaven Apps — Live Photos editing app Alive is another app in their portfolio we’ve covered.
The pricing for Hulu’s live TV service, a competitor with cable television – as well as a host of other streaming TV services like Sling TV, PlayStation Vue, DirecTV NOW, and YouTube TV – will likely be $39.99 per month, with ads and access to Hulu’s on-demand library, according to sources with knowledge of Hulu’s plans. That’s in line with Hulu CEO Mike Hopkins’ previous statement that its new service would cost “under $40” per month.
The live TV service will include access to Hulu’s on-demand content, Hulu Originals, live network broadcasts, and the broadcast networks’ on-demand content. The $39.99 price point is not yet set in stone – it could still come down, but won’t likely rise given Hulu’s earlier promises and the now fiercely competitive market for streaming TV.
Asked about the pricing, a Hulu spokesperson said the company is still in the process of building its live content package and has not finalized any pricing yet.

Cloud DVR Bundle 
The live TV service will allow for a certain amount of recording and storage space in its base package – a feature that’s quickly becoming a standard offering for these types of businesses. But this recording space will not be a fully functional DVR, as it will not support fast-forwarding.
However, Hulu is considering an add-on package to its live TV service that will include an unlimited DVR with up to 200 hours of programming, as well as unlimited streams. (There may be a cap on concurrent streams outside the home, though – we’ve heard three.)
This add-on bundle will allow users to optionally upgrade their live TV service with the cloud DVR and unlimited streams, and will be priced under $20 per month, sources tell us.
Hulu is not the only service to offer a DVR, of course.
One of PlayStation Vue’s most compelling features has been its cloud DVR, which lets you record movies and shows without worrying about conflicts or storage space, as you must with DVRs in traditional cable boxes. But Vue’s DVR feature was soon adopted by rivals, including Sling, which has been steadily rolling out its own cloud DVR to subscribers, offering 50 hours of storage for $5 per month with no expiration on the recorded content.
YouTube TV then seemingly topped all its competitors when it announced a cloud DVR with unlimited storage.

But The Wall St. Journal noted there was a major caveat attached to YouTube TV’s DVR option that the others didn’t have – it will force you to watch ads on many of your DVR’d shows. If the show is available on-demand, the Journal found, viewers can’t skip ads, even if they recorded the show. Instead, YouTube TV will play back the on-demand version where fast-forwarding through ads is disabled.
The WSJ article also hinted that this DVR arrangement is something TV executives would push for in future services, but that will not be the case with Hulu’s DVR.
Thankfully, Hulu’s cloud DVR will give users the ability to fast-forward through the commercials in their recorded content – just like a cable TV DVR would.
However, though both Vue and Sling’s DVR technically support fast-forwarding, the option is not always available due to rights deals. It will be interesting to see if Hulu’s live TV service faces those same issues when it arrives.

Commercial Free Hulu On Demand + Live TV 
In addition to its $39.99/mo live TV service, Hulu will continue to offer both its ad-supported ($7.99/mo) and commercial-free ($11.99/mo) subscriptions to its on-demand library of programming, which includes Hulu Originals, TV shows, and movies. (An option to buy just live TV without Hulu’s on-demand library may also become available, pricing to be determined.)
Largely, though, Hulu’s live TV is meant to be sold as a bundle of live and on-demand programming. That means current commercial-free Hulu users would pay just a few dollars more for their live TV upgrade. (The cost to upgrade from ads to no ads on Hulu’s on-demand library is $4 more per month. Applied to the live TV service, that $4 upgrade would bring the new live TV service to $43.99 per month. But prices could still change ahead of launch.)
At the higher price point, Hulu starts to sound a bit expensive. And if you’re tacking on the cloud DVR bundle, too, Hulu could cost as much as you’re paying for cable TV today – assuming you have something larger than a basic package.
But it’s important to note that Hulu’s new service is more akin to combining a Netflix subscription with a streaming service like Sling TV – as it’s offering both a sizable video on-demand library and live streamed TV under one roof. In fact, it will be the first service to do so.

And depending on your household setup, you may still save or break even with cable given that cable TV companies charge around $10-$12 per extra cable box – a number that can go even higher if those boxes have their own DVRs.
Plus, current Hulu subscribers are already paying $7.99 or $11.99 per month, so the financial pain of the live TV upgrade would not be a full $39.99 or $43.99 more – but rather, the difference between their old and new plans.
Premium Channels
The new live TV service will also offer premium channel add-ons, starting with Showtime – a network Hulu’s subscription video on demand service has today. Showtime will continue to cost $8.99 per month more. Other networks will follow, we understand – including HBO, which will arrive shortly after the service goes live.
Hulu’s live TV service is still planned for a spring launch. Technically, the last day of spring is June 21st, so we may have awhile to wait yet.
In New York, Derek Jeter is more than a mere man, or even a pro athlete. He’s a legend.
Following an historic 20-year career with the New York Yankees, The Captain started the next chapter of his life with the launch of The Players’ Tribune.
The Players’ Tribune is a media property co-founded in 2014 by Jeter and Jaymee Messler that lets professional athletes connect with fans. It combines the high-quality publication of content while still giving athletes the same direct connection of social media.
When TPT first launched, critics wondered whether or not the site — which could just as well be a PR move as it could be a legitimate news site — would be able to climb the crowded ranks of sports media. But The Players’ Tribune has done just that, claiming more than 100 million monthly content views across social and web platforms.
Plus, athletes have also jumped aboard the TPT train, with Kobe Bryant announcing his retirement and Kevin Durant announcing his move to the Golden State Warriors on the platform.
In May, we’ll have Jeter and Messler join us onstage at TC Disrupt NY to discuss the process of building out The Players’ Tribune and the future of the media site, as well as the larger landscape of sports media.
We can’t wait to have this founding team on our stage, and hope you are as excited as we are!
If you want to pick up tickets to the conference, head over here.
Sponsors make TechCrunch events possible. If you’re interested in learning more about sponsorships with TechCrunch, fill out this form.
“Move last and take things” seems to be Facebook’s new motto.
Now the parent company’s top Snapchat clone Instagram Stories has hit 200 million daily active users, surpassing the last count of 161 million that Snapchat announced alongside its IPO. Instagram Stories launched in August, hit 100 million dailies in October, and 150 million in January, so it’s hardly slowing as it grows. Meanwhile, Instagram is getting faster at copying even Snapchat’s most technologically advanced features with a series of global iOS and Android updates.
Exactly one year ago, Snapchat launched augmented reality “3D stickers” and text you can stick to objects in videos, which then stay stuck to them and grow or shrink as they move around. Today Instagram launches a clone of this feature called Pinning for stickers and text, with an added improvement of a video timeline for scrubbing back and forth for picking when to Pin something and demoing how it looks.
Snapchat launched these augmented reality stickers a year ago; Instagram added them today
Instagram tells me Pinning relies on “fairly standard region tracking technology,” and was built because “we see people frequently sharing their lives through videos, so we wanted to enable our stickers to move through videos as one more way to mix your personality with the moments you’re capturing.”

Instagram also now has its own version of Snapchat’s Scissors feature that launched in December for cutting out a part of an image, turning it into a sticker and pasting it on whatever you’d like. Instagram’s “Selfie Stickers” lets you open a camera from the Stickers dock, shoot a mini-selfie, add a fade or circle frame to it and then paste it into your images from then on. But you can’t just cut something out of your already shot content.
Instagram is adding Custom Geostickers drawn by local community members for Tokyo, Madrid, London and Chicago. It launched this copy of Snapchat’s illustrated geofilters last month in New York City and Jakarta. Just like Snapchat, your recently used stickers now show up at the top of the tray. And Instagram’s hands-free camera now includes a countdown to recording, so you know when to ham it up.
Instagram rolls out more custom geostickers
You can see that Instagram is getting faster and faster at cloning Snapchat’s features as we recap the timeline:

Stories: Snapchat – October 2013, Instagram – August 2016, Lag – 2 years 10 months
Location Filters: Snapchat – July 2014, Instagram – March 2016, Lag – 1 year 9 months
AR Stickers: Snapchat – April 2016, Instagram – April 2017, Lag – 1 year
Create-Your-Own-Stickers: Snapchat – December 2016, Instagram – April 2017, Lag – 4 months

At this point the only major feature left for Instagram to copy is Snapchat’s animated selfie masks, which Facebook already has in its app and Messenger thanks to its acquisition of MSQRD. And with Instagram’s Stories reaching more users per day than Snapchat’s whole app, Instagram may be able to get preference from advertisers seeking maximum scale.
Snap’s share price sank slightly on Tuesday when Instagram launched its new Direct feature that unites Snapchat-style ephemeral messaging with traditional permanent text messaging. And today the stock dropped another 1.25 percent after the news that Instagram Stories has eclipsed Snapchat’s size.
Snapchat’s growth sank 82 percent after Instagram Stories launched. Now all eyes will be on whether Snapchat can get user growth back on track when it has its first earnings call next month. Slow growth could make Wall Street fear it’s being left in the dust, while strong growth could show it will continue to battle Instagram for dominance of the new sharing medium.
It looks like we can add another to the string of IPOs that at least look like they’ve been successful — with Yext, too, popping more than 20% once its shares made their debut this morning.
Shares of Yext went as high as $14 or so after the company gave its final pricing at $11 last night — meaning it raised at least $115.5 million in its IPO. Following Okta, and before that Mulesoft and even Snap, Yext seems to have capitalized on the open so-called “IPO window,” with investors and executives looking to cash in on the appetite for new tech IPOs. After a drought of tech IPOs last year, it looks like interest is steadily ramping up in the first half of the year.
That’s good for not just the companies looking to raise capital, but also investors and employees that have been waiting to finally see a cash-out for their patience. Yext, for example, was started in 2006, and it’s not alone in a large number of companies that have been waiting for the right time to finally go public. With many larger startups like Airbnb and Uber opting to stay private, investors are at least looking for some way to start pulling in returns for their funds — and Snap, at the very least, revealed the interest Wall Street had and opened the door for these companies to finally get their IPOs out of the way.

Related Articles
Yext is set to raise $115.5M in its IPO after final pricing
New York-based Yext files for IPO
Yext hires new president as it looks to IPO
Yext launches a developer platform for its location database technology
Yext creates software that ensures that company information like addresses are the same, and accurate, across multiple different apps and networks that people use. Users probably don’t look for locations or addresses on a retailer’s website anymore, instead opting for Google Maps or Yelp. Yext gives those businesses a way to make sure all the right information is the same across all those platforms.
The $11 pricing it gave last night was also above the original range it set, which was somewhere between $8 and $10. We’ve seen companies so far this year continuing to raise their price ranges or settle on the higher end of those ranges, meaning there’s more demand for shares than would have otherwise been expected. It’s still an optimization game, with companies testing the waters with banks to figure out the right price but still having to find a way to make sure there’s a pop on day one and that everyone gets paid.
Microsoft just sent out invites to members of the media for its big reveal of Xbox Project Scorpio, the upgraded console that will be the “first true 4K console for gamers” according to the company. We’ve long expected E3’s press event to be the big consumer debut for Scorpio, but Microsoft spelled out that it will indeed be the star of the show in a blog post on Thursday.
The E3 press event will happen on Sunday, June 11 at 2 PM PDT (5 PM EDT), and will fully unveil Scorpio to the world. We’ve seen a lot in terms of technical details behind the forthcoming console, thanks to comprehensive reports about what the developer kits for the Scorpio contain, and the specs developers have been provided in order to help them prepare software for the device’s consumer launch.
Some topline specs to get you excited – Scorpio’s GPU is around 4.5x as powerful as the Xbox One, and 1.4x more powerful than the PlayStation 4 Pro. It’ll also have an integrated power brick so you just have to hide a single, svelte cord, and it’ll feature an integrated 4K Blu-ray player.
We’ll find out what the final consumer console looks like at E3, and hopefully when to expect it and how much it’ll cost. For now, here’s a peek at what the developer kit hardware looks like, courtesy of Gamasutra, which could provide some hints about the shipping console’s industrial design:
We hear a lot about our online data being bought and sold by advertisers, but Narrative founder and CEO Nick Jordan said the actual process remains “incredibly cumbersome.”
And he should know, since he’s spent years in the adtech world, most recently as an executive at Tapad. Jordan explained that from the data buyer’s perspective, you have to go out and strike “one-off” deals with a long list of different providers — as he put it, “There’s no one-stop shop.” And if you’re looking to sell data, you’ve got to figure out how to package and price it.
“There’s a pent-up demand for folks looking to buy data, and a pent-up supply of people looking to sell data,” he said. “For the data economy to have less friction, we need to give tools to both the buyers and sellers to help them find each other easily and let them easily integrate with each other.”
That’s what Narrative is providing, with a marketplace where data buyers can browse different sellers and bid on their data, and where sellers can manage all of their transactions.
The startup is announcing that it has raised $2.25 million across two seed rounds of funding, with investors including XSeed Capital, Kiwi Ventures, C2 Ventures, Amobee’s Kim Reed Perell and Adelphic co-founder Jennifer Lum.
“Simply put, trading on all types of data and streamlining the pipes between demand and supply is way overdue and will solve tons of pain points for publishers and advertisers,” C2’s Chris Cunningham told me via email.

Related Articles
Instagram grows to 1M active advertisers, plans to add more data and direct booking
Facebook is making its cross-device Atlas data available to more advertisers
Telenor Jumps Into Ad Tech, Acquires Tapad For $360M
 Jordan added that Narrative is different from a data management platform, which packages data in a way that’s usable by advertisers — though he said the potential confusion is “one of the challenges for Narrative as a business.” So the company is currently describing its approach as “data commercialization.”
He also argued that while Narrative’s initial focus has been on adtech, the platform could be useful far beyond that industry. For example, a commercial real estate firm working with a brick-and-mortar retailer could purchase data that helps them choose where to open their next business.
Of course, privacy advocates might not be quite as excited about a company that makes it easier to buy and sell data. However, Jordan said Narrative performs a “pretty thorough review” to make sure the businesses selling data are following applicable laws and best practices. And whereas a traditional transaction might involve “a number of opaque intermediaries,” Narrative creates a transparent connection between buyers and sellers, so “much more rigor can be put into privacy and compliance.”

Featured Image: Narrative
Amazon is making the technology that makes its Echo line of devices so good at picking up your voice commands available to third-party device makers. That includes the microphone array that helps Echo pick up speech even in a fairly noisy room, as well as Amazon’s own proprietary software for recognizing wake words, reducing background noise and cancelling out echoes in large open rooms.
The tech will be made available as a development kit, but it won’t be open season: Amazon’s offering it up to external OEMs on an exclusive, invite-only basis, after reviewing applications from interested parties made via its website.
Amazon has designed the kit to be “compatible with leading chipset solutions,” which basically means it’s intended to be used products powered by a range of different CPUs and silicon (it lists ARM Cortex, Intel x86 and Raspberry Pi as selection options in the application form, along with “Other”). The intent of the program is to help get partners more quickly up and running with baking Alexa into their hardware devices, something the company has been encouraging through its Alexa Voice Services program, too.
My advice if you’re making any kind of connected hardware with a speaker on board: Go ahead and apply. Alexa ruled the roost at CES last year, and it’s likely to only gain steam in the foreseeable future.
Lucid is continuing down its path of shipping a Tesla competitor, and the Air just underwent another milestone: High-speed testing. A performance-targeted prototype version of its flagship Air car, the first it’s intending to bring to production, hit Ohio’s 7.5-mile TRC test track to check out how it holds up under high-speed use, including a (software limited) top speed of 217 mph.
The performance testing is designed to help the team identify where the car is performing as expected in conditions that, while not likely to be encountered often in daily use, will still prove part of the appeal of the vehicle to its first customers. The Lucid Air will cost $52,500, once federal tax credits are applied, so while it’s not at the lofty height of the Tesla Model S, it’s still very much a vehicle owners will expect to keep up with others in the premium category.
The high-speed capabilities of the car also aren’t at odds with Lucid’s core goal of creating a vehicle that’s extremely efficient; to the contrary, Lucid says that the same things that make it an excellent performance vehicle will help it maximize its energy consumption when driven more normally, too.
Uber is teaming up with Getaround to provide an easier way for drivers without cars to provide rides through the service. Starting in San Francisco, a new pilot will allow Uber drivers to use the Getaround app to rent cars on-demand from pick-up spots throughout the city, and pay a $5 per hour flat rate for use of the vehicle, including insurance, gas and unlimited miles.
The rental arrangement is similar in some ways to deals that Uber has in place with GM, and with Hertz, and there are some services designed specifically to provide rental services to Lyft and Uber drivers, including HyreCar. The Getaround deal adds that startup’s spontaneous rental model, which works similar to car2go, Zipcar and other short-term rental companies with cross-city presence, albeit with individual and partner fleet operator-owned vehicles. The cars used for this are not those provided to Getaround by individuals, but are supplied by Xchange Leasing, Uber’s existing lease program for drivers.
The Uber partnership with Getaround also includes a free trial for new users, with 14 hours of free driving (during one continuous rental) for the first time. To get the trial and Getaround access, drivers will still need to be approved through Uber’s program, which requires sign-up and its standard screening procedure. Those approved will receive a special Getaround app download code that unlocks the trial.
Uber is positioning this as a way to attract drivers who don’t want to own (or use) their own car, and who may be drawn to driving with the company as a means to pick up very occasional extra income, like those saving for an upcoming vacation.
Under increased scrutiny due to reports of unhealthy work culture, CEO missteps, a competitor driver tracking program, calls from California regulators for it to be tougher on drivers with drunk driving records, and the departure of its senior-most communications executive, Uber has been trying to improve the driver-side experience as a way to help it continue to attract, and also retain its membership on that side of its two-sided marketplace. This is yet another effort to lower the barrier on the onboarding side, while changes including more openness to feedback from drivers seem intended to keep drivers around once they’ve signed up.

Featured Image: Tomohiro Ohsumi/Getty Images
Uber has been testing a feature that allows riders to specific a nearby intersection instead of having to enter an actual address for a pick-up or drop-off point, and now that’s rolling out to everyone using the app in the U.S. The feature allows you to type in two street names in the app’s address fields, and it’ll even autopopulate major intersection options nearby.
The decision to implement this feature came from feedback that users wanted an option to preserve more of their privacy while requesting a ride via Uber. You could always have moved the map and dropped a pin, or simply typed in a nearby address if you wanted to obfuscate your real end or starting point, but Uber says that while some took advantage of this option, most did not, and yet it has still been clear that riders were looking for an easier way to protect their privacy.
“One interesting area of feedback that we’ve heard from some consumers, and some riders and drivers, is that in certain scenarios they’d love to be out and Ubering but not overly share their personal information,”explained Kate Parker, Head of Trust and Safety Initiatives at Uber, noting that this has helped inform features like driver to rider calls facilitated without revealing phone numbers, and a reporting system that protects the identity of anyone submitting feedback from those on the receiving end.
“If you’re headed to a park, and you don’t know the exact address of the park, you can easily just put in the cross-streets and get to where you’re going, and that’s easier for drivers to navigate,” Parker said. “They have confidence that you want dropped off on the corner and then they’re able to facilitate that better.”
Uber’s implementation of cross street identification is still new, and will improve over time, the company says. It’s useful not just for protecting your home address, but also for keeping private destinations more private, so you don’t need to share that you’re headed to the doctor’s office, for instance. It’s a small but likely welcome addition on the user side, and one that arrives when Uber needs to reassure customers it has their best interests in mind, given the difficulties faced by the ride sharing company regarding its leadership, corporate culture and some business practices including competitor monitoring programs.
Google is not taking Pinterest’s search ambitions lying down. The company recently launched a “Similar Items” feature on mobile web and Android to point users to more products they’ll love – like handbags, sunglasses, and shoes, for example – and today it’s expanding that functionality to include apparel. More notably, it’s also introducing a new feature called “Style Ideas,” which will surface inspirational lifestyle images and outfits that show off the fashion product images you had been browsing.
If this all sounds familiar, it should. Pinterest for years has been establishing itself as the home for “inspirational” imagery – often including fashion items and other products – which it then tries to funnel into purchases. It has also been developing visual search technology that helps it to identify specific products within images, or even a person’s camera viewfinder, then pull up related content on its service.
Ultimately, the goal here is to shift a portion of those initial, exploratory shopping searches away from search engines like Google and onto Pinterest itself. That is, when you’re just thinking about buying some new, black boots, you might now go to Pinterest to get ideas. And you may never wind up on Google at all, if you find a pair you like. You could just click through to the retailer’s site directly.
That sort of challenge is likely frightening to Google, which already has to contend with the shift to mobile, where more people are spending their time in apps than surfing the web, like in the desktop era.
That’s where this new “Style Ideas” feature comes in.

Explains Google, now when you’re browsing fashion product images on Android or the mobile web, the Image Search interface will update to show you images that help better represent the product in real life. If you’re eyeing a pair of heels, explains Google, it might show outfits where the model is wearing them.
For fashion product searches, the results will include a set of visually similar items, outfit montages, and real-life images, Google says.
The “style idea” images are algorithmically selected without human involvement, and take advantage of Google’s machine learning capabilities to identify the images featuring the product in question.
In addition to the style ideas, Google will also display an expanded carousel for similar items when you’re searching for apparel. A couple of months ago it had launched similar items for purses, sunglasses and shows, but it has now added six more verticals: outerwear, dress, shirt, pants, skirts, and shorts. This feature can be useful to find items that resemble those you like – including items that may be available at lower price points.
Google tells us that the images that appear in both the style ideas and similar items grids are also algorithmically ranked, and will prioritize those that focus on a particular product type or that appear as a complete look and are from authoritative sites.
This isn’t the first time Google has targeted Pinterest. In late 2015, the company added a “collections” feature to Image Search which also seemed a direct response to Pinterest by allowing users to save their favorites images from search and organize them.

Featured Image: Google
Eniac Ventures is announcing the close of a $100 million venture fund, the fourth since the group formed in 2009. The seed-stage firm plans to use the money to invest in augmented reality, virtual reality, bots, robotics and other software-enabled technologies.
“VR is really a pathway to mixed reality,” said Vic Singh, founding general partner at Eniac. It’s “very early days and we’ll see how it shakes out, but investing in the tools layer is where we’re focused on.”
The $100 million is the largest fund for Eniac, which closed its previous $55 million fund a little over two years ago. They plan to use the additional capital to lead more rounds and make some follow-on investments.
In a previous study, CB Insights found that Eniac-backed companies get from seed to Series A faster than any other venture firm. Nihal Mehta, founding general partner at Eniac says that they help the startups make it to the next step by acting as unofficial “co-founders” to their investments. “We do everything that they want us to.”

Related Articles
Statsbot helps businesses pull their data into Slack
Trim personal finance bot raises $2.2 million to save you money
Phhhoto, With $1.5M In New Seed, Launches Group Gif Sharing

With the new fund, the team is introducing what they’re calling the Eniac Platform. They plan to help startups with publicity, hiring, operations and other business development services. Some of these offerings are available at Series A funds, but Eniac wants to send the message that they are more hands-on than the typical seed-stage venture firm.
Eniac has had a handful of exits. Recently, Apple acquired the Workflow productivity app. They’ve also sold companies to Twitter, Airbnb, Pinterest, Salesforce and SoundCloud.
Mobile ad startup Vungle and bulk shopping site Boxed are amongst their companies that have gone on to receive later stage investments. Radio app Anchor and voice synthesizer Dubsmash have received significant fanfare.
The four partners met when they studied engineering together at the University of Pennsylvania. Hadley Harris, Nihal Mehta, Vic Singh and Tim Young are all general partners.
Eniac has offices in San Francisco and New York.
Cameras help autonomous vehicles read street signs and the color of traffic lights. But LiDARs, aka light detection and ranging systems, do the important work of sensing and helping cars avoid obstacles, whether that’s a fallen tree, drunk driver, or a child running out into the road.
Now, a startup called Luminar Technologies Inc., is unveiling a high-resolution LiDAR sensor that was five years in the making. The startup, which has raised $36 million in seed-stage funding so far, built its LiDAR systems from scratch. That means the company engineered its own: lasers, receivers, chips, packaging and more, rather than incorporating off-the-shelf components.
Investors in Luminar have included: Canvas Ventures, GVA Capital, and the Peter Thiel-backed 1517 Fund. According to Luminar’s CEO and cofounder Austin Russell, the company’s LiDARs give cars the ability to see obstacles ahead in much greater detail, and at much greater distances than any other systems on the market today. The LiDARs also work in inclement weather, through fog and dust. The company has not yet disclosed the price it will charge per sensor.
Predecessors and competitors offering LiDAR for self-driving vehicles include Quanergy, Velodyne, and Alphabet-owned Waymo, among others. At twenty-two years old, Russell is confident his technology has them all beat in terms of performance.
Luminar CEO and cofounder Austin Russell
At the age of two, Russell had already memorized the periodic tables, by twelve he wrote his first patent, and perhaps predictably he later dropped out of Stanford with a $100,000 Thiel Fellowship.
He said, “My role models were primarily in physics and engineering. I admire the classics like Newton, Tesla and Einstein. They all came up with a new way of thinking about a problem in order to be able to advance an entire field, rather than making incremental improvements to some specific technology.”
The problem most LiDAR makers are trying to solve, Russell points out, is one of affordability. Many auto-grade LiDARs still cost tens of thousands of dollars. Instead of simply making easier-to-manufacture, and cheaper versions of existing tech, Luminar sought to build a higher-performing sensor, even if it used exotic materials and operated at a different wavelength than industry standards.
Luminar invited TechCrunch to see a demonstration of its systems at San Francisco’s Pier 35, a terminal with a long straightaway. There, employees had arranged mannequins of different heights dressed in different colors, as well as life-sized decoy deers, car tires, and signs that marked the distance every 25 meters or so. At the distance of 200 meters, Luminar placed a large canvas painted the same hue as a common black car.
Luminar CEO Austin Russell conducting LiDAR systems tests at Pier 35 in San Francisco.
The company had purchased vehicles straight from BMW, Mercedes-Benz, Tesla and other dealerships, equipped them with its own LiDAR sensors, and was driving those cars around Pier 35. Monitors in the cars displayed maps of the world around the moving vehicle, drawn in real-time from the LiDAR data.
The Luminar system, operated by CTO and cofounder Jason Eichenholz, clearly portrayed: a bicyclist weaving in and out of the road, at 100 meters and further away; a small pigeon that suddenly scurried about 40 meters in front of their car; and they clearly showed the human form of the mannequins, even those dressed in dark garb; as well as the black-painted canvas at the end of the pier.
By contrast, data streaming in from other LiDAR makers would only show a few dots or a meager line indicating that an object lay ahead. Other systems could not specify objects or even detect dark walls and the mannequins dressed in darker clothes. And earlier LiDAR sensors only showed what was happening within about a 35- to 50-meter range.
Luminar CTO and cofounder Jason Eichenholz at Pier 35 in San Francisco.
If you’re not familiar with how LiDAR works, TechCrunch has a handy primer here. But at the highest level, LiDARs send beams of light out, which bounce back and generate data points that build a picture of a car’s surroundings and the distance and density of objects ahead.
Luminar’s LiDARs send out millions of laser pulses per second. They give the vehicle a 120-degree range of view. They also allow optical zoom, or more concentrated analysis of any obstacles near a car.
Russell said, “If you notice, a lot of self-driving vehicles are limited to operating at or below 25 miles per hour. These are things like delivery robots, or robots used in warehouses. We can see objects at 200 meters, while driving 75 miles per hour. That means you have about 7 seconds of time for your car to react. Other lidars only give one second of reaction time.”
Luminar’s LiDAR sensor affixed to a roof rack of a vehicle.
Luminar investor Rebecca Lynn, a partner at Canvas VC, said now that the company is putting its systems out on the market, she expects Luminar will become a major strategic player in automotive. Indeed, the CEO said car companies have already offered to buy up, at any price, all the LiDARs that Luminar plans to produce in its first run, starting this year.
The startup is using some of its significant seed funding to build a 50,000 square foot factory in Orlando, Fla. Its headquarters office, however, is in Portola Valley, Calif.
While some argue that self-driving cars will be able to rely on cameras alone for perception, Lynn said: “LiDAR will be able to save more lives than any technology being developed today, from genomics to AI. There are many things that will make our lives easier or better. But looking at tech that can truly save lives, it is autonomous driving. And you cannot have fully safe autonomous driving without LiDAR.”

Featured Image: Luminar Technologies Inc.
An investigation by a British newspaper into child sexual abuse content and terrorist propaganda being shared on Facebook has once again drawn critical attention to how the company handles complaints about offensive and extremist content being shared on its platform.
And, indeed, how Facebook’s algorithmically driven user generated content sharing platform apparently encourages the spread of what can also be illegal material.
In a report published today, The Times newspaper accuses Facebook of publishing child pornography after one of its reporters created a fake profile and was quickly able to find offensive and potentially illegal content on the site — including pedophilic cartoons; a video that apparently shows a child being violently abused; and various types of terrorist propaganda including a beheading video made by an ISIS supporter, and comments celebrating a recent attack against Christians in Egypt.
The Times says it reported the content to Facebook but in most instances was apparently told the imagery and videos did not violate the site’s community standards. (Although, when it subsequently contacted the platform identifying itself as The Times newspaper it says some of pedophilic cartoons that had been kept up by moderators were subsequently removed.)
Facebook says it has since removed all the content reported by the newspaper.
A draft law in Germany is proposing to tackle exactly this issue — using the threat of large fines for social media platforms that fail to quickly take down illegal content after a complaint. Ministers in the German cabinet backed the proposed law earlier this month, which could be adopted in the current legislative period.
And where one European government is heading, others in the region might well be moved to follow. The UK government, for example, has once again been talking tougher on social platforms and terrorism, following a terror attack in London last month — with the Home Secretary putting pressure on companies including Facebook to build tools to automate the flagging up and taking down of terrorist propaganda.
The Times says its reporter created a Facebook profile posing as an IT professional in his thirties and befriending more than 100 supporters of ISIS while also joining groups promoting “lewd or pornographic” images of children. “It did not take long to come across dozens of objectionable images posted by a mix of jihadists and those with a sexual interest in children,” it writes.
The Times showed the material it found to a UK QC, Julian Knowles, who told it that in his view many of the images and videos are likely to be illegal — potentially breaching UK indecency laws, and the Terrorism Act 2006 which outlaws speech and publications that directly or indirectly encourage terrorism.
“If someone reports an illegal image to Facebook and a senior moderator signs off on keeping it up, Facebook is at risk of committing a criminal offense because the company might be regarded as assisting or encouraging its publication and distribution,” Knowles told the newspaper.
Last month Facebook faced similar accusations over its content moderation system, after a BBC investigation looked at how the site responded to reports of child exploitation imagery, and also found the site failed to remove the vast majority of reported imagery. Last year the news organization also found that closed Facebook groups were being used by pedophiles to share images of child exploitation.
Facebook declined to provide a spokesperson to be interviewed about The Times report, but in an emailed statement Justin Osofsky, VP global operations, told us: “We are grateful to The Times for bringing this content to our attention. We have removed all of these images, which violate our policies and have no place on Facebook. We are sorry that this occurred. It is clear that we can do better, and we’ll continue to work hard to live up to the high standards people rightly expect of Facebook.”
Facebook says it employs “thousands” of human moderators, distributed in offices around the world (such as Dublin for European content) to ensure 24/7 availability. However given the platform has close to 2 billion monthly active users (1.86BN MAUs at the end of 2016, to be exact) this is very obviously just the tiniest drop in the ocean of content being uploaded to the site every second of every day.
Human moderation clearly cannot scale to review so much content without there being far more human moderators employed by Facebook — a move it clearly wants to resist, given the costs involved (Facebook’s entire company headcount only totals just over 17,000 staff).
Facebook has implemented Microsoft’s Photo DNA technology, which scans all uploads for known images of child abuse. However tackling all types of potentially problematic content is a very hard problem to try to fix with engineering; one that is not easily automated, given it requires individual judgement calls based on context as well as the specific content, while also potentially factoring in differences in legal regimes in different regions, and differing cultural attitudes.
CEO Mark Zuckerberg recently publicly discussed the issue — writing that “one of our greatest opportunities to keep people safe” is “building artificial intelligence to understand more quickly and accurately what is happening across our community”.
But he also conceded that Facebook needs to “do more”, and cautioned that an AI fix for content moderation is “years” out.
“Right now, we’re starting to explore ways to use AI to tell the difference between news stories about terrorism and actual terrorist propaganda so we can quickly remove anyone trying to use our services to recruit for a terrorist organization. This is technically difficult as it requires building AI that can read and understand news, but we need to work on this to help fight terrorism worldwide,” he wrote in February, before going on to emphasize that “protecting individual security and liberty” is also a core plank of Facebook’s community philosophy — which underscores the tricky ‘free speech vs offensive speech’ balancing act the social media giant continues to try to pull off.
In the end, illegal speech may be the driving force that catalyzes a substantial change to Facebook’s moderating processes — by providing harder red lines where it feels forced to act (even if defining what constitutes illegal speech in a particular region vs what is merely abusive and/or offensive entails another judgement challenge).
One factor is inescapable: Facebook has ultimately agreed that all of the problem content identified via various different high profile media investigations does indeed violate its community standards, and does not belong on its platform. Which rather begs the question why was it not taken down when it was first reported? Either that’s systemic failure of its moderating system — or rank hypocrisy at the corporate level.
The Times says it has reported its findings to the UK’s Metropolitan Police and the National Crime Agency. It’s unclear whether Facebook will face criminal prosecution in the UK for refusing to remove potentially illegal terrorist and child exploitation content.
The newspaper also calls out Facebook for algorithmically promoting some of the offensive material — by suggesting that users join particular groups or befriend profiles that had published it.
On that front features on Facebook such as ‘Pages You Might Known’ automatically suggest additional content a user might be interested on, based on factors such as mutual friends, work and education information, networks you’re part of and contacts that have been imported — but also many other undisclosed factors and signals.
And just as Facebook’s New Feed machine learning algorithms have been accused of favoring and promoting fake news clickbait, the underlying workings of its algorithmic processes for linking people and interests look to be being increasingly pulled into the firing line over how they might be accidentally aiding and abetting criminal acts.
Finally some good news for Uber: it will resume its ride-hailing service in Taiwan today, two months after suspending operations following a long-running battle with the country’s government. To avoid running afoul of local regulations again, Uber will partner with licensed rental car companies.
After launching in Taiwan in 2013, Uber quickly faced backlash from local cab operators and the government, which levied fines against the company and its drivers for running unlicensed transportation services.
In December, Taiwan’s Legislative Yuan finalized an amendment bill that hiked the maximum financial penalty for illegal passenger transportation services from NT$150,000 (about $4,946) to NT$25 million ($824,500)—the highest such fine in the world.
This prompted Uber to finally suspend its services in Taiwan on February 10.
A blog post announcing the return of Uber in Taiwan said that the company is “now partnering with licensed rental car companies to resume serving riders in Taipei.” The service will return to other cities soon.
In the post, Uber Taiwan general manager Likai Gu said “We want to partner with more legal transportation service partners in weeks and months to come, whether they be from rental car companies or the taxi industry.”
During the suspension of its ride-hailing service, Uber continued to operate Uber Eats, its food delivery service, in Taipei.

Featured Image: Jaap Arriens/NurPhoto/Getty Images
Zeroth is an accelerator program that is out to fix the lack of talent, and investment options, for artificial intelligence (AI) in Asia, and it has just opened applications for its second program which takes place in Hong Kong in late July.
“There’s almost nothing that won’t be touched by AI,” high-profile investor — and former Google China head — Kaifu Lee said at our most recent China event. And yet, Asia’s biggest firms still lag their U.S. peers on AI.
Things are moving in the right direction but seemingly for a select few. Didi Chuxing recently set up a U.S.-based lab, but it appears some way behind Google and Uber. Even then, retaining talent is tough. The recent departure of Andrew Ng, who led Baidu’s research lab in the U.S., has highlighted the struggle that China’s (Asia’s) biggest firms have in hiring and retain top talent in the field of artificial intelligence (AI) and deep learning.
Investor and talent shortage
Tak Lo, founding partner of Zeroth, left his role at early-stage venture firm Mind Fund to start the project in 2015, which is Asia’s first dedicated AI and machine learning accelerator program.
“It wasn’t that there wasn’t enough talent, there just aren’t many investors [in the Asia region] focused on artificial intelligence,” said Lo, whose past projects have included Tech City in London, the SPH Plug and Play program in Singapore and a stint in the U.S. armed forces.
The idea is to take 20 companies per batch, with Zeroth offering up to $120,000 in optional funding. That’s a slightly different approach to its inaugural batch, which took in 10 companies and offered each six percent equity in exchange for $20,000.
The program is pretty industry agnostic, and Lo said his preference is to work with early stage companies because that’s where he feels the program can have the most influence.
“Our mission isn’t that all companies should have AI, but everyone to be able to develop in this tech,” he said. “We want it to be in the hands of many not just a few.”
Particular areas of focus include edge computing, natural language, autonomous vehicles, agritech, human-machine interface technology and ethical computing. Its first cohort includes a diverse range of startups from chatbots (Clare and Botimize), to deep-learning-powered recognition (DT42), social media marketing (Rocco) and crop disease diagnosis (Sero).


A big Thank You to all who helped make a successful #Z01! Exciting roads ahead for the #startups. & stay tuned for news from us very soon. 🤖 pic.twitter.com/dtZTHwyAqp
— Zeroth.AI (@zeroth_ai) March 2, 2017



Beyond a standard demo day, the event was live-streamed to selected investors in Seoul, Beijing, Tokyo and Singapore.
“We figured it was the best way to build community and trust in these companies. I think it worked pretty well as an overall experiment,” Lo said. “The companies are fundraising, we view investor day as the kick off.”
Developing A Community
The first Zeroth program was located in Hong Kong, but it has temporary relocated to Japan before the next program opens in Hong Kong. In Tokyo, Lo is keen to recruit venture firms, corporate partners and, of course, founders. Already, Mind Fund invested directly in the program, while others, such as 500 Startups, are closely involved.
“There’s an amount of patient capital here and the liking of deeper tech is a big pro,” Lo said. “Where else we go will be dictated on market conditions and where we are after this cohort.”
A number of regionally-focused accelerator programs struggled to make the grade as a business and shut up shop over the past year. Lo is candid that, for now, there’s no business model set in stone for Zeroth.
“We’re still trying to figure it out, but the AI focus is one because AI is hot but also potentially acquisitive.” he said. “Companies realize this is the next thing. One hypothesis is that M&A deals could provide short term cash flow, while another option is working with funds that are a little more long term.”

Zeroth partner Tak Lo
On the mentoring side, Lo said Zeroth’s advisors have “created more than $1.7b billion in AI company value”. Among them is Antoine Blondeau, who worked on the precursor to what became now Apple-owned Siri and whose Sentient.ai startup is the world’s most funded AI company.
The others are Hajime Hotta, who sold mobile ad firm Citrius Technologies to Yahoo Japan, Skype and Kazaa co-founder Jaan Tallinn, Bangalore-based Sachin Unni, Alexandre Winter (who sold Placemeter to Netgear), early-stage investor Takahiro Shoji, Techstars’ Eamonn Carey, and investor Nathan Benaich.
Lo said the focus on AI has been validated by similar strategies from Y Combinator, which recently announced a dedicated AI track, and others who have been increasing their interest in the space.
“We’re proud of the fact we are first, we took a bet and realized this would be good,” he said. “We may be ahead of these guys and they are more established.”
Zeroth’s second batch is due to start in late July. Applications are open now until June 15, more details and the form can be found on the website.
Update: The original version of this article has been updated to correct that Zeroth is temporarily relocating to Tokyo but the next program will be held in Hong Kong.

Featured Image: Kisan/Shutterstock
Another day, another revelation of an ethically questionable business practice by Uber. This time The Information reports that Uber secretly tracked Lyft drivers using an internal software program it dubbed Hell.
Hell not only let Uber see how many Lyft drivers were available for rides and what their prices were, but also figure out which ones were double-dipping by driving for Uber, too.
This meant Uber had data that made it easier to offer those drivers incentives to switch over to Uber exclusively. The software was called Hell in reference to “God View,” its tool for tracking the location of customers (God View, also called “Heaven,” was infamously abused by Uber employees to stalk journalists, celebrities and ex-girlfriends).
Hell originated after Uber created fake rider accounts on Lyft and used software to trick Lyft’s system into thinking those riders were in certain locations. This allowed Uber to see the eight closest available Lyft drivers to each fake rider.
Then Uber executives realized that Lyft had assigned a numerical user ID to each of its drivers. This bonanza allowed them to start long-term tracking of Lyft drivers and deduce who also drove for Uber. Once Uber knew when and where they tended to log onto Lyft, the company was able to offer drivers incentives–including financial bonuses–created to convince them to use only Uber.
The Information talked to lawyers from firms who have represented Uber in other cases who said Uber can potentially face civil legal claims related to its use of Hell. These include breach of contract, unfair business practices, stealing trade secrets and violating the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act. A Uber spokesman told The Information that the company won’t publicly discuss its internal processes, while Lyft said “We are in a competitive industry. However, if true, these allegations are very concerning.”
The report is yet another stain on Uber’s reputation, which has already been sullied by founder and CEO Travis Kalanick’s bratty behavior, many incidents of sexual harassment and discrimination and an ongoing court battle with Alphabet-owned Waymo over Uber’s alleged theft of intellectual property. Uber’s head of communications Rachel Whetstone recently quit, reportedly because of conflicts with Kalanick.
Besides Hell and God View, Uber also engendered controversy after the New York Times reported that it used another software tool called Greyball to avoid picking up regulators.
According to The Information’s sources, Uber stopped using Hell in early 2016, around the time Lyft closed a $1 billion funding round. Only a few people at Uber knew about Hell, including Kalanick, several other executives and data scientists.
 

Featured Image: Michael Duva/Getty Images
Like the boy in Iron Giant, Elmodis watches massive machines to ensure they don’t break or, worse, hurt people. The company recently raised $4.9 million to manage this task in addition to their $250,000 in seed capital from Innovation Nest in Poland.
The founders, Artur Hanc and Marcin Swiech, created a “novel way of monitoring machines,” said Swiech.
“The technology uses an electric motor as a sensor,” he said. The company is preparing to monitor thousands of massive machines using their cloud-based software and a hardware component that can read motors for problems and improvements.
“We can build analytical models for diagnostics of any machine powered by an electric motor in very little time. At the moment we focus on pumps, fans, and conveyor systems that are mainly used in manufacturing. We have one type of hardware for all machines, so the installation costs are very low compared to vibration systems, where you need to install several sensors and have a specialist who knows where to place them,” said Swiech. In other words these guys can drop a few pieces of hardware into your machine shop and manage everything from a central dashboard. The company charges per connected machine in a SaaS model.
Heavy gear isn’t very sexy these days, but what Elmodis is doing is clearly important. Now here’s hoping the evil General doesn’t attack an Elmodis powered machine and activate its protective lasers and missiles.
When outdoor warning sirens in Dallas cried wolf last Friday, Twitter sleuths concluded that a hacker hijacked the alarms through a vulnerable computer network. As it turns out, the sirens aren’t computerized at all — they’re controlled through a decade-old radio system, one the city just voted to spend $100,000 to upgrade.


System malfunction with City of Dallas siren system. Crews working to fix. No emergency. Please do NOT call 911. Thank you.
— DallasOEM (@DallasOEM) April 8, 2017





In case you were wondering what the end of the world sounds like, it's every tornado siren in the entire city of Dallas going off at once.
— Bradford Pearson (@BradfordPearson) April 8, 2017



This week, Dallas city officials revealed a few details about last Friday’s chaos. “It’s a radio system, not a computer issue,” Dallas City Manager T.C. Broadnax explained. The city’s outdoor warning system, first installed in 2007, is powered by 156 sirens made by a company called Federal Signal Corp. City officials declined to provide details on how the emergency system works, noting only that “it’s a tonal-type system,” which suggests it could be compromised by outside radio equipment replicating the tonal code required to trigger the alarms. The whole thing sounds kind of like massive-scale phone phreaking, which is cool but probably more scary than cool given how many similarly unsecured systems likely exist in major U.S. cities.

After it was triggered late Friday, the radio-based system was disabled so the city could take some basic precautions. When the system went back up over the weekend, it went live with encryption to protect its language of tones, a measure that could have prevented the whole ordeal.
For anyone who still thinks hacking always looks like a scene from Mr. Robot, the Dallas incident is just one more cautionary tale. People are jumpy about public infrastructure security these days with good reason: As the federal government struggles to protect nationwide critical infrastructure, heterogenous city and state-level technology provide a sprawling attack surface. With that in mind, it’s worth remembering that not all security incidents involve Matrix-style lines of code scrolling down a computer screen. Apparently, a good old-fashioned radio hack can still wreak havoc too.

Featured Image: Alex Becerra/Flickr UNDER A CC BY 2.0 LICENSE (IMAGE HAS BEEN MODIFIED)
Today’s Stories 

Boomerang launches a $5 per month cartoon streaming service
Lincoln Chauffeur provides drivers on demand, while you supply the car
Qualtrics waits on that IPO, raises $180 million at a $2.5 billion valuation instead
Justin Kan’s new startup Atrium is raising $10 million to disrupt the legal industry

Credits
Written by: Tito Hamze, John MannesEdited & Hosted by: Tito HamzeFilmed by: Joe ZolnoskiTeleprompter: Joe Zolnoski
Notes:

I don’t know what to wear on Crunch Report (It’s a hard decision and I suck at dressing myself). If you are a startup and want to me to wear something mail me an XL T-shirt and I’ll wear it in an episode. I’m not going to mention the company on the shirt in the episode but it will be there. No offensive stuff, it’s totally at my discretion if I wear it. Mail it to me. Thanks <3 Ok, bye.

TechCrunch C/O Tito Hamze
410 Townsend street
Suite 100
San Francisco Ca. 94107
Apple has hired a group of biomedical researchers to work on a secret project to monitor diabetic patients using sensors, according to a CNBC report.
An estimated 371 million people have the disease worldwide, and in the last few years, several tech companies have been trying to come up with better solutions to help those afflicted. Virta is a newly launched startup tackling type 2 diabetes that promises to completely cure patients by remotely monitoring behaviors. Livongo Health is another startup in the Bay Area that just raised $52.5 million to launch its blood sugar monitoring product.
Normally, patients monitor their glucose by pricking themselves to get a blood sample, so not having to do that any more would be a real game-changer. One person told CNBC Apple is developing optical sensors that shine a light through the skin to measure glucose.
However, others have tried to come up with technology to bypass pricking, and it’s proven tough to do. Alphabet’s life science company Verily has also tried to take on the disease with a smart contact lens that measures blood glucose levels through the eye, but some reports suggest the now three-year-old project isn’t going well.
But Apple’s project has been going on for at least five years, according to the report, and is now to the point where it’s ready to conduct feasibility trials. Apple has also reportedly hired consultants to help it jump through the inevitable regulatory hoops.
The team is said to be made up of Johny Srouji, Apple’s senior vice president of hardware technologies, and possibly 30 other people — at least a dozen of whom could have come from a frenzy of hires Apple made from the biomedical field, including companies like ZONARE, Vital Connect, Sano and Medtronic.
While we can’t confirm details of the project with Apple (we’ve reached out but have not heard back yet), it would fit well with one of the company’s earlier visions. Steve Jobs believed Apple would one day be at the intersection of technology and biology, according to Walter Isaacson’s biography of him. The Apple Watch is already there, counting steps and calories burned, and taking our heart rate and other biological measures. Add on a sensor you can take with you wherever you go and able to detect glucose levels without drawing blood and you’ve officially transformed an entire industry.

Featured Image: Tetra Images/Getty Images
With a new electric vehicle initiative, Uber is finally speaking Portland’s language. The company shares a rocky history with the famously green city, but that won’t stop Portland from becoming the first U.S. market where Uber will push a set benchmarks for electrifying its fleet.
For the Portland version of Uber Electric, a program that the company rolled out to London last year, the ride-hailing company will team up with Drive Oregon, a partially state-funded nonprofit that seeks to get more electric vehicles on the road. With a combination of incentives and educational initiatives, Uber aims to make 10 percent of its Oregon fleet electric by 2019, statewide. Right now, the company says that 100 of the 6,000 active Portland Uber drivers use electric vehicles, so it has considerable work to do (beyond all of that other work it has to do).
To reach its 10 percent goal, Uber is pursuing a range of local collaborations. The company will work with Portland’s Black Parent Initiative to expand electric vehicle access to underserved communities, Cynergy E-Bikes to connect UberEATS couriers with electric bikes and Arcimoto, an Oregon-based EV company. Uber is expected to use its auto-lease subsidiary Xchange Leasing to offer in-house deals to drivers wishing to get behind the wheel of an EV.
“The City of Portland has also adopted some of the nation’s most aggressive measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions,” Uber stated about its mission in the city. “Uber Electric will help Portland and the state of Oregon achieve these important clean energy goals.”
Uber isn’t the only alternative transportation company going electric in Portland. Late last year, the city became the second market for BMW’s ReachNow, a Zipcar-like service with a focus on electric vehicles, and a previous initiative by Car2Go that sprinkled electric smart cars onto its rainy streets all the way back in 2012.
In a world where a quarter of cars could drive themselves by 2030, Uber’s decision to take two years to recruit a few hundred EV drivers is more incremental than revolutionary. Still, it shows that the company is implementing both long- and short-term strategies for rethinking transportation, even in the midst of one of the worst PR crises the tech industry has ever known.

Featured Image: Drive Oregon
Yext today said it would price its initial public offering at $11, meaning the company will raise around $115.5 million in its IPO as it sets up for a debut tomorrow.
Tomorrow, Yext will be the second enterprise company in the past week that will make its public debut, following this pricing. With Snap’s IPO seen as successful, as well as tech IPOs in general looking good so far, it seems like Yext may be able to capitalize on the appetite for freshly public tech companies. The so-called “IPO window,” at least for now, appears to be open — and now it’s a matter of figuring out the balance of ensuring a good pop for the company while not leaving too much money on the table.
The company last said it would price its stock between $8.00 and $10.00 per share, offering 10.5 million shares (along with the option for underwriters to purchase an additional 1.6 million shares). That means it’s also following the steps of Okta, which ended up settling on an optimistic price at the top end of its range. Including the option for additional shares, the so-called “greenshoe,” Yext could raise as much as $133 million.

Related Articles
New York-based Yext files for IPO
Yext hires new president as it looks to IPO
Okta finishes up 38% in stock market debut
Identity management software provider Okta seeks to raise $187M with IPO pricing
In addition to investors and employees finally getting paid out for their efforts — Yext was founded in 2006 — these events are at their core fundraising events. But even with the now-healthy demand for new tech IPOs, it’s still going to be important for these companies to at the very least look like they’ve had a successful IPO and a big pop on their first days of trading.
Yext filed for its IPO mid-March on the same day that Okta, an identity management software provider, publicly filed. Okta made its debut last week with a bang, finishing up more than 38 percent on its first day of trading following a so-far-consistent string of successful tech IPOs, starting with Snap earlier this year.
Like Okta, Yext makes software that will be important to businesses going forward: ensuring that businesses — large and small — get the correct locations in search engines, maps and on social media. Retailers have to adjust to a world where fewer people will be going to their websites for addresses, which means they need to tap into a company like Yext that’s already built the infrastructure with all the necessary partners to make sure the addresses and locations are accurate.
Nintendo will offer a special battery grip accessory for its Joy-Con controller accessory, which will be offered in sets of two and add more life to the already considerable 20-hour runtime of the Joy-Cons using their built-in power. Nintendo is also going to add a new color option for Joy-Cons, a Neon Yellow that will make sure everyone knows you’re using a Switch and can’t possibly look away from watching you do it.

The new Neon Yellow Joy-Cons will go on sale starting June 16, and if there’s one good reason to pick some up, it’s that you can be super sure they won’t have that Bluetooth issue that plagued some of the launch Joy-Con devices. The battery pack accessories go on sale the same day, and look like they’ll offer the side benefit of giving you more surface area to grip on the diminutive Joy-Cons.

Nintendo’s also going to start selling the Switch dock as a standalone accessory in “limited quantities” beginning on May 19. The Switch dock is currently the only official way to connect the device to your TV, and many users have been looking for ways to pick up additional ones in order to let them move their console between televisions within their house. It sounds like these might be in very short supply, however, so grab one quick if you’ve been looking for this additional functionality.
 
Earlier today, BlackBerry’s stock hit its highest point more than a year, and all it took was a lousy $814.9 million arbitration win. It’s a healthy bounce back for the embattled company, which has spent the last year working to make a major shift from all-in phone maker to software and services company.
But while shareholders are likely pleased, BlackBerry no doubt would have rather its stock hit its highest level in 15 months due to, say, a new product or service, but, well, you take what you can get.
The 16-percent surge came on the heels of news that the Canadian mobile company was being awarded a massive sum after a on-going fight with Qualcomm over patent royalties. The last time BlackBerry saw a bump like this was courtesy of news that its first Android-powered smartphone, the Priv had sold out of numerous big box stores.
Of course, a lot has changed for the company in that time. It’s since shifted to licensing its brand to manufacturers like TCL, which are keeping the one mighty name alive through devices like the KeyOne. The victory does offer some insight into the newly focused company, as well as notching up yet another bit of bad news for chipmaker Qualcomm, which has suffered a string of defeats with governing bodies across the globe, along with on-going battles with one-time allies like Apple.
Qualcomm issued a response that that it “does not agree with the decision,” but noted that, “it is binding and not appealable.” The San Diego-based processor maker’s stocks took a tumble following the news.
BlackBerry is expected to use the massive award to bolster its business through acquisitions, as it continues to adjust its overall focus in mobile security and automotive.
As part of the NewTech Meetup we will be holding a very cool pitch-off at the Oskar Blues The Oak Room at 1800 Pike Road in Longmont, CO. We are holding it on Wednesday, April 19, 2017 starting at 6:00pm. The pitch-off will happen at about eight. You can RSVP here.
To apply to pitch please submit your info here. I will pick and contact eight companies to pitch for 2 minutes with 2 minutes of judge questions. If you do not get an email you are not pitching.
The winner of the pitch-off gets a table at Disrupt New York and the second place company gets two tickets to Disrupt New York.
See you soon!
For its upcoming crewed spaceflight missions, Boeing worked with David Clark Company, a Massachusetts-based company that makes flight and aviation suits, as well as headsets for pilots to come up with brand new spacesuits. The goal was to create a new kind of spacesuit for a new kind of astronaut – Boeing wants to be a leader in the new business of commercial crewed orbital missions, and the crew of its CST-100 Starliner, which aims to begin flying next year, needed updated equipment to match.
We got the chance to speak directly with Boeing Starliner Crew and Mission Systems lead Chris Ferguson, himself a former astronaut who visited the International Space Station three times. The suit is a big improvement according to Ferguson, compared to the ones he used to wear, especially with regards to astronaut mobility thanks to the lightness of the materials used. Visually, you can tell that it’s much-reduced in terms of sheer mass, and that reduction was made possible by focusing on what really matters for the astronauts, and by taking out stuff they won’t need for EVA activities – otherwise known as spacewalks.
From touchscreen gloves, to lightweight shoes that have more in common with today’s lightweight sneakers than with industrial boots, the new spacesuit is an exercise in minimalism, functionality, comfort and safety. Travis Ripps, a systems engineer lead for David Clark Company, explained to me that everything, from the slack in the rear and at the knees to allow for given when astronauts are in their seated position during launch, to a zip across the stomach to prevent bunching when bent at the mid-section, is designed to make sure you get solid pressurization without unduly impeding the astronaut’s ability to do their jobs.



Even sizing is kept to a minimum in terms of complexity: the spacesuit can be modified on the fly to fit a number of different frames, and just six total sizes can pretty much run the gamut in terms of addressing the needs of different-sized human astronauts.
The internet barely had time to be annoyed for that new 15 second Burger King ad before Google shut the whole thing down. A little over two hours after the fast food giant took the wraps off of a TV spot designed to trigger smart assistants across the country, the functionality no longer works.
We’ve reached out to Google for confirmation of the action, which was likely just a quick fix on the server side designed to block a specific waveform, perhaps leveraging similar functionality to block out its own ads. Meantime, we’ve tried in out on a Home unit we have around the office and can confirm that the commercial no longer has the intended effect.
Interestingly, it’s not the specific function, just the voice from the ad. Asking Home what a “Whopper sandwich” is in your own voice (like a Big Mac, but smaller) will bring up the Wikipedia entry as initially intended. For Google, the fix is likely akin to patching a security flaw (though here it’s more about annoyance than any real security threat).
As we confirmed earlier, Google played no role in the ad – and likely wants to stay out of the fray as much as possible following recent annoyance around its decision to use the device to play commercials for the new Beauty and the Beast film.


The Whopper Wikipedia page is about ten seconds from getting locked by editors. https://t.co/vIhZphOAsv pic.twitter.com/L165XCMYDZ
— Brian Heater (@bheater) April 12, 2017



Wikipedia, meanwhile, has yet to put the Whopper page accessed therein under lockdown, but its edit page shows a war of updates, libelously accusing the burger of containing everything from rats and toenail clippings to people.
The page also now contains references to the controversy itself and subsequent Wikipedia editing, because the internet is a snake that perpetually eats its own tail. Or maybe a rat that eats toenail clippings. Hard to know for sure. Burger King surely knew what it was getting itself in for here, as the company allegedly edited the Wikipedia entry prior to the ad’s less than stellar debut earlier today.
On the upside, the company has been through worse. And hell, this is like the 17th worst PR disaster of the week so far, and it’s only Wednesday. Makes you long for the good old days of March when fast food PR meant ordering pizza from your shoes. Next time just buy the full 30 second spot and leave our connected home out of it.
TechCrunch Disrupt NY is taking place at Pier 36 on May 15-17, and we can’t wait to see you. In honor of the occasion, we’re giving away a trip to New York to one lucky TechCrunch reader! You can earn extra entries to the contest by sharing the giveaway link with friends and following our social accounts. Enter the contest by following this link or by using the widget below.
Here are more details about the contest, which ends on May 1, 2017.

2-night stay at The William Vale hotel
Roundtrip flight to NYC
2 tickets to TechCrunch Disrupt NY with access to after parties and closing concert
Private chef-led Tasting Collective dinner at a top NYC restaurant
One-year subscription access to Mogul Courses


Disrupt is one of the most anticipated technology conferences of the year. This year’s event in New York features speakers like Steve Boom, Vice President of Amazon Music, Brittany Packnett, VP of National Community Alliances at Teach For America, Kevin Weil, Instagram’s Head of Product, WeWork’s Co-Founder Adam Neumann, international chess legend Garry Kasparov and many more.
Over 25 companies will compete in Startup Battlefield for the grand prize of $50,000, and hundreds of early-stage startups will showcase their products in Startup Alley. More information about Disrupt NY and how to buy tickets can be found here.
 








		
		Entry into this contest will require your email address, and you will be subscribed to our events newsletter to receive updates about upcoming TechCrunch events.
Good luck!
Android Pay, Google’s answer to Apple Pay and other mobile payment technologies, today unveiled new partnerships with a handful of banks from around the world, who will integrate the service into their own apps. The feature will be available within the mobile banking apps provided by Bank of America, USAA, Bank of New Zealand, Discover, and mBank, says Google.
This is the first time Android Pay has been available within mobile banking apps.
The integration may be slightly different in each bank’s app, but generally, the focus is on making it easy to add cards to Android Pay from within the banking app itself. This gives Android Pay an expanded avenue to distribution, as users who have not have signed up for Android Pay may notice the option in their more regularly used banking app, and then become interested in trying out the mobile payments service for the first time.
Increasing Android Pay adoption is key for Google, as it has so far been ceding the contactless market to rival Apple Pay. According to a report from Juniper Research released earlier this week, Apple Pay usage has nearly doubled year-over-year, and is expected to reach 86 million users by the end of 2017. Samsung Pay and Android Pay are also growing, but are only expected to reach 34 million and 24 million, respectively, during that same time frame.
After the card has been added within the bank’s app, Android Pay works as usual.

That means you’re able to tap to pay at checkout at the millions of stores offering the supported NFC-enabled terminals, says Google. Plus, you can use it in supported apps to make purchases or checkout on the mobile web, similar to Apple Pay. You’ll also receive a notification immediately after each transaction.
Google clarifies that the option to use Android Pay through the banking apps will work even if you don’t have the standalone Android Pay application installed on your smartphone.
As the company explains in a blog post about the new partnerships, customers of these participating banks will be able to manage their bank card choices, including selecting different default payment methods or deactivating cards, through the banks’ apps themselves. However, this feature will be limited to managing the cards associated with that particular bank – you can’t delete a Chase card from the Bank of America app, for example.
Pop quiz, hotshot. You’re appointed the social media manager for a world-renowned institution like Oxford’s Bodleian Library. What do you do? Obviously, you spend the next year making GIFs out of the thousands of precious cultural treasures hoarded there. At least that’s what Adam Koszary did.
It’s actually not an easy question. The audience is largely scholars and bookworms who probably pronounce GIF “gee eye eff.” Your bosses are academics who discourage experimentation, especially among young persons. It’s one thing for MedievalReacts to do it, but the Bod itself?
Turns out that, after a little breaking-in period, the powers that be were happy with the light touch given to this historically weighty material. And it helped that the numbers were rising — by the end of Koszary’s year on the job, they’d tripled engagement.
Not just because of randoms who liked silly stuff like the above, but because it’s a clever way to share some of the items that are otherwise best experienced in person, like this inverting memento mori or a rearrangeable “myriorama”:
 
As Koszary puts it in a post summarizing his experience:
Museums should spread knowledge and understanding online. But what I learnt was that to do so requires being human, and when it comes to the internet and social media, museums should be unafraid of embracing its culture, talking to people and taking risks.
That’s all, really, I just thought it was a good example of social media success in a niche where one doesn’t always expect social media success. It’s so easy to do it wrong, and it’s nice to see it done right.
And also because I love these GIFs so much. (via Metafilter)
Today, Google showed off a host of VR web applications on its new WebVR Experiments page, one of which lets you explore the world using voice search.
“Speak to Go” is optimized to work with VR headsets on its Daydream and Cardboard platforms buy you can also try it out on your phone or computer without a headset, you just need to enable the mic on Chrome and get to voice exploring.
Tap the space bar and say an address and Google will drop you at that exact location if there’s Street View data available, say a city or country and the web app will place you somewhere random allowing you to discover new vistas.
On desktop the app is just a gimmicky voice search tool for Google Maps, but on a Google Cardboard headset you get a more real sense of exploration as you’re cut off from other forms of input and it’s just you speaking and moving your head to explore.
The app showcases the strengths of WebVR in getting new users into experiences that are seamless and intuitive. WebVR allows users to visit virtual reality experiences in a browser just by visiting a URL.
In November, Google debuted its Earth application on HTC’s Vive platform, this latest update brings some of the views to mobile 360 on Cardboard and Daydream.
Hey Accenture, are you aware that your PR firm is pitching your latest corporate beta for a creepy face and emotion-monitoring algorithm as a party trick?
Do you know what a party is? Have you read the definition?
Would you call requiring people to download an app before they can get into an event a party-time kind of thing to do? Would you say that demanding that people scan their faces so they can be recognized by an algorithm fun times?
Does having that same algorithm watch and record every interaction that happens in the Austin bar or event space you’ve filled with some light snacks and a bunch of free liquor count as rockin like Dokken?
Do good hosts require people to become lab rats in the latest attempt to develop HAL?
Is monitoring patients’ faces in hospitals really the best way to apply the technology outside of your PartyBOT’s par-tays? Or is that also a creepy and intrusive use of technology, when other solutions exist to track actual vital signs?
What do your own office parties look like? Does Sam from the front desk have to try out the newest accounting software to get a drink from the punch bowl? Does Diane have to swear allegiance to Watson before grabbing that tuna roll? Do you throw them at Guy’s American Kitchen & Bar?
Does your soul die a little when you turn people into test subjects for the AI apocalypse?
Maybe after reading this press release, it should?

With the rise of AI and voice recognition, customer experiences can be curated to the next level. Imagine Amazon’s Alexa, but with more emotion, depth and distinction. Accenture Interactive’s PartyBOT is not simply a chatbot – it is equipped with the latest technologies in facial recognition that allow the bot to recognize user feelings through facial expressions, and words resulting in more meaningful conversations.
Featured at this year’s SXSW, the PartyBOT delivered an unparalleled party experience for our guests – detecting their preferences from favorite music, beverages and more. The PartyBOT went so far as to check in on every attending guest at the party, curating tailored activities based on their preferences. Link to video: https://vimeo.com/212140128 (pw: awesome)
But the PartyBOT goes much further than facilitating great party experiences. Its machine learning applications can apply to range of industries from business to healthcare – acting as an agent to support patient recognition and diagnosis in hospitals that can recognize patient distress and seek the appropriate help from doctors.
If you would like to learn more about the PartyBOT, I’m happy to put you in touch with our executives to discuss the applications of our technology and potentially schedule time to see this in our studios.


Featured Image: Rosenfeld Media/Flickr UNDER A CC BY 2.0 LICENSE
Time to pay attention, would-be Disrupt NY 2017 attendees. Time is very quickly running out if you want to get your hands on some deeply discounted tickets to the best startup show in the Big Apple. Now through Friday, April 14, tickets will run you just $1,995 apiece, a fully $1,000 off the final retail price.
Disrupt NY 2017 is shaping up to be one of the best Disrupts yet. We’ve got some amazing speakers lined up for a series of lectures and interviews — folks like NEA Partner Dayna Grayson, Handy CEO Oisin Hanrahan, and Instagram’s Head of Product Kevin Weil, to name just a few.
In addition to these incredible interviews, Disrupt attendees will get to check out hundreds of new, early-stage startups that will be on display in Startup Alley and Hardware Alley, pitching their products and services to the thousands of people wandering the show floor.
Then there’s the Startup Battlefield competition, in which companies compete in front of our panel of judges and the broad tech industry with the hopes of winning the coveted Disrupt Cup, a $50,000 grand prize and, perhaps most importantly, the attention of the startup community at large.
And as an added benefit, attendees can keep the fun and networking going long after the show floor closes with the various after-parties that take place throughout the week of Disrupt.
Now, the difficult part. You won’t get to do anything unless you have a ticket, and the absolute best way to get a ticket, and keep your wallet a little fatter, is to get early-bird tickets to Disrupt before the price jumps by $1,000 this weekend. Early-bird tickets are available now through the end of day on Friday, April 14, so get on over to our ticketing page today to get yours.
Disrupt NY 2017 takes place May 15-17 at Manhattan’s Pier 36, and we can’t wait to see you all there.
Our sponsors help make Disrupt happen. If you are interested in learning more about sponsorship opportunities, please contact our sponsorship team at sponsors@techcrunch.com.
Justin Kan wants to change the legal industry, and has gathered a team together to do just that. According to sources his newest startup, called Atrium LTS, is looking to raise $10 million for its initial round of funding.
As the eponymous founder of Justin.tv, Kan has had a fair amount of success over the last few years. While Justin.tv wasn’t a huge hit as a life-casting or live-streaming platform, it ended up spawning Twitch, which sold to Amazon for just under $1 billion. He’s also been a prolific angel investor, which includes investments in Cruise Automation, which sold to GM for more than $1 billion.
More recently, Kan announced plans for a new incubator, called Zero-F. He clearly has a lot going on, but sources say Kan will be leading Atrium as CEO.
Kan himself has never worked in the legal industry, but as a serial entrepreneur he’s been a customer of legal services over the years. He’s also surrounding himself with others who have worked in the industry and created startups to change it.
Key among the team is Orrick startup lawyer Augie Rakow, who is well connected in the tech space due to a number of high-profile companies he’s worked for, as well as a monthly founder meetup he organizes. Joining them also is BeBe Chueh, who was the founder of a company called AttorneyFee, which sold to LegalZoom a couple of years ago.
On the technical side of things Kan has recruited Chris Smoak, who was an early AWS employee, Y Combinator alum and founder of a company called Gambit Labs, as the company’s CTO. Rounding out the team is Nick Cortes, who is also working with Kan on his Zero-F incubator and handling operations for the group.
Atrium is seeking to raise a total of $10 million, and sources tell us General Catalyst has committed to leading the round. In addition to rounding out its financing with other VCs, Atrium is also looking to get buy-in from some tech companies as strategic investors and potential clients.
Kan and General Catalyst declined to comment on the financing, of course. We’re hoping to learn more once Atrium is a further along and the team is more willing to talk about what they’re building and how exactly they’re looking to tackle the legal industry.

Featured Image: TechCrunch/Flickr
New work out of Georgia Tech promises to lend a sense of permanence to shape-shifting 3D printing. The technology, commonly referred to as 4D printing by those in the know, aims to add another dimension to the 3D printing process by creating an object designed to change shape after it leaves the print bed.
Most models from research institutes like Harvard and MIT have relied on hydrogels to execute the process. The soft materials execute the functionality slowly and don’t retain their shape after the process is completed.

Videos out of Georgia Tech’s team show a real-time transformation that takes around five seconds to complete, once the polymer object has come into contact with a heat source, like a blow drier or hot water.
“Normally the time is pretty long,” Georgia Tech professor H. Jerry Qi told TechCrunch. “You have to wait hours for it to change shape. And also they’re very soft, because hydrogels are soft. They’re typically softer than skin. With our new approach, the responsive time is very fast. The videos are real-time. The shape change happens almost instantly.”

The videos highlight a number of different objects to show the diversity of the process, from a lattice work that unfolds to eight times its size, to a complex and colorful flower that appears to wilt when dipped in hot water. The researchers were also able to determine the object’s final shape to some degree during the printing process.
“The shape change is all controlled by printing parameters and how you arrange the print structures and the different materials in the structures,” said Qi. “It’s an advance from what we’ve done before, because it simplifies the process significantly. “
For now, the research is the stuff of cool lab videos and grant fodder, but in the future, such shape shifting objects could have potentially wide ranging device. Biomedical devices are one that immediately spring to mind for the team, like implants that change shape ones they come into contact with body heat.

The permanence of the new structure post transformation could also broaden the product’s appeal in the consumer field
Today, Google made some WebVR updates to Chrome, adding support for Cardboard while also building a home for all of its online VR web content.
WebVR Experiments is a bit of a storefront for online VR experiences, albeit everything is free (at the moment) so it’s still more of a discovery tool. The page is launching with some cool (and bizarre) experiences that let you play VR ping-pong, endure a musical rainstorm and chase around a donut.
WebVR allows users to visit experiences on the web without having to download an app, this is great for checking out content spontaneously. Click a link, pop your phone in a headset and get to browsing.
By adding Cardboard support, Google has massively expanded the reach of the WebVR platform given that over 10 million Cardboard headsets are out in the wild.
WebVR for Chrome now supports Daydream, Cardboard and 2D view on desktop and mobile, so anybody should be able to check out the experiences. The team also gave an update for desktop Chrome support on other headsets like the Rift and Vive, which it said is “coming soon.”
One of the main uses of VR that has emerged since the technology experienced a resurgence is the ability to make you empathise with what you are experiencing. This happened to me the first time I ever did VR, when I watched Clouds Over Sidra, a short VR documentary that put you in the shoes of a Syrian refugee girl, living in a camp in Jordan. I don’t mind admitting that it actually made me cry on my video about the film. It’s this empathy effect that new startup Fountain Digital Labs is is trying to tap into with its Virry VR platform (now nominated for a Webby Award) which allows people to virtually engage with real African animals up close and in their natural habitat. Not all of us can go on a safari, but this just-released immersive virtual reality experience has now launched on PlayStation VR.
Filmed in 4K VR at the Lewa Wildlife Conservancy in Kenya, using strategically placed high-definition cameras, Virry VR creates a safari-like experience which also allows the user to control aspects of the narrative.
You can feed lions and even share mud baths with rhinos. Players can also take a trip down an African river and learn about endangered animals.
The initial release of Virry VR for PlayStation includes 35 minutes of experiences with wildlife.

Virry VR users can learn interesting facts, answer questions, and interact with the animals through the virtual experience.
For Virry VR it costs $9.99 and the Live Camera Subscription is $1.50/mo. You can also subscribe for $2.50/mo and thus to donate $1 to the Lewa Wildlife Conservancy.
For those who don’t have PS4, Virry’s original BAFTA award-winning app for iOS mobile devices is also an option. Subscriptions costs $19.99 a year.
Svetlana Dragayeva, Fountain Digital Lab CEO, says: “Virry immerses players in the lives of real animals, encouraging discovery, empathy, and problem solving, while helping them to better understand nature, conservation, and the world around them.”
The experience has won plaudits from Founding Director of The Virtual Human Interaction Lab at Stanford University, Jeremy Bailenson. He says “I have seen thousands of spherical videos and the footage from Virry VR is the most stunning nature scenes I have ever seen in any medium,” said Bailson. “Seeing a big rhino in its natural home from the perspective of a mud puddle inches away, or having a lion literally lick my face to test if I am edible, were among the coolest things I have done in VR to date. I predict this project will be a huge success in motivating people to learn more about nature and ecosystems.”
Dragayeva is a passionate about the capability of VR to awaken us out of our senses which have been deadened by imagery which is shocking or unusual: “As Sontag observed back in the 70s, ‘At the time of the first photographs of the Nazi camps, there was nothing banal about these images. After 30 years, a saturation point may have been reached. In these last decades, “concerned” photography has done at least as much to deaden conscience as to arouse it’.” So I am in this search for something new. Something that moves, touches, tickles an empathic impulse, creates a bond. VR seems to be well-suited for this at this current moment.”
If the prospect of joining a virtual music festival and dancing around in a VR headset and controllers sounds pretty geeky… you’re not wrong.
But it’s also, like, incredible.
TheWaveVR will remind you of drugs even if you’ve never done drugs and will probably also make you want to do drugs.
The virtual reality music app is launching a beta version today on Steam early access that brings you into a world of outlandish visuals and heavy electronic music inside a social arena.
Today, the Austin-based startup is also announcing that it has closed a $4 million seed round led by Upfront Ventures. Other investors in the round include RRE Ventures, KPCB Edge, Greycroft VR Gaming Tracker Fund, Luma Launch, Boost VC and The VR Fund.
If you’ve ever been to a trippy EDM rave or have had the privilege of seeing Flying Lotus in concert, you’ll know that the glitchy graphics occurring onscreen behind the artist are often a major contributor to the otherworldly vibes. I probably don’t need to tell you that this can be a lot more powerful in VR when all of a sudden the entire sky is lighting up and shifting inside itself.

Snapshots really don’t do the app justice, because part of what makes the app such a powerful experience is the ability to enter the space and interact with strangers.
I was able to jump into an early build of the app and hop around with co-founder/CEO Adam Arrigo and Upfront general partner Kobie Fuller to enjoy a “Wave” concert and it was almost bizarre how disarmingly intimate/spiritual the interactions felt. You can chat with each other, dance and give high fives, but more interestingly you can share something called “social trips” which take you and the other user into a mini-game-like world where it’s just you two interacting with a world that’s incredibly wonky.
In addition to wandering the virtual desert and socializing, you can also dive behind the turntables and craft tracks with a surprisingly finessed VR DJ setup, spinning tracks while also doing things that just aren’t possible in the real world thanks to pesky gravity.
With so many investors skeptical of making investments in VR, it’s crazy to see a VR music app raising money from top firms like KPCB and Upfront, but that really speaks to the unique vision of TheWaveVR which manages to get so much right in its first beta release.

The difficult challenge for any social VR app is building up a sustainable community, TheWaveVR is planning to do weekly concerts in VR featuring real electronic musicians.
I’d question the sustainability of that model if I hadn’t already experienced a concert, but the reality is that this app is going to be something that every worthwhile DJ — in LA or elsewhere — will be playing around with soon and I’m sure it won’t be long before users have their pick up some top artists inside the app. The team is building tools for artists to import tracks that they can play around with onstage.
TheWaveVR has so many areas it can still visit as it builds up for a full release, but it’s already far more successful at creating a digital music festival than a VR app should be.
When London fintech startup Chip launched late last year, the company’s vision was something a lot more ambitious than a simple ‘micro savings’ app delivered through a millennial-friendly chatbot. Instead, the plan was always to become a fully-fledged banking app that ‘plugs’ into your existing bank accounts and adds a raft of new functionality to help you make the most of your money. A significant update to Chip rolled out today begins to see that ambition become a reality.
In addition to helping you save small pots of money based on what Chip’s AI deems you can afford, the chatbot app has added spending insights and a clever new feature to help you pay off your overdraft. I’m also told the company plans to launch “Smart Credit” later this year to replace your bank’s overdraft facility altogether.
“Chip is the ‘plugin banking’ app that sits on top of your current account and does the things that actually help you with your money,” the startup’s CMO Alex Latham tells me. “We are tackling three of the biggest problems young people face: the inability to save money, the difficulty of tracking spending… [and] the problem of getting stuck in a cycle of debt and paying a premium for it”.
Specifically, Chip’s new pay off your overdraft feature is based on the premise that many people don’t consider an overdraft as debt, in part because it is marketed by banks as “available funds” and, since it doesn’t sit separate from your main bank balance, is almost indistinguishable from your own cash.

Related Articles
Listen to Monzo founder on building a 'smart' bank, fintech bubble and turning down acquisition offer
These chatbots want to help you manage your money
Index-backed Pariti is an app to help you get out of debt
Starling Bank, a digital-only UK challenger bank, launches beta
Skype's Niklas Zennström backs London fintech startup Cleo
“Chip’s first step to help people with their overdraft is to let them save to get out of it. By its very nature, you don’t actively pay it back, you can just aim to go less overdrawn this month than last month. But all the while, your bank account shows your overdraft as “available balance” so it feels like the money is yours, and getting out of that cycle is incredibly difficult,” says Latham.
To counter this, Chip alerts you if you are into your overdraft and lets you know the average amount you borrow each month and what it is costing you. It then puts its savings algorithm to work — the same one that powers the existing micro-savings functionality — with the goal to build up savings equal to your average monthly overdraft. Once that goal is reached, you are prompted to clear your overdraft in its entirety.
“The user has the option to save with Chip while overdrawn, putting aside a little bit of money every few days until they have enough saved up to pay off all of their overdraft debt in one go. Chip then notifies the user and gives them the option to deposit money back into their current account. Goodbye overdraft!”.
Meanwhile, “Smart Credit,” which is pegged to launch in July, will attempt to wean you off an overdraft facility entirely by essentially replacing it, albeit with a less expensive and more manageable form of credit. According to the company, the way it will work is as follows:

Every time your current account balance drops below £0, Chip instantly loads your current account with £100 of Smart Credit. The money is yours and Chip gives you all the information you need to spend sensibly, at your finger tips.
Smart Credit repays itself automatically at a rate you don’t feel. It uses the Chip algorithm to analyses your transactions and gradually repays what you owe. You don’t need to do anything.
If you’re having an expensive week, Chip knows and pays back less. If you can afford to pay back a little bit more, Chip will increase your repayments automatically.

“Everything Chip does is based around these three fundamental problems which we face and offering a better UX for your money, all in a slick chatbot interface,” adds the Chip CMO. “We strongly think that the answer to these problems come from a better banking app which doesn’t force you to change bank”.
In other words, according to Chip, ‘plugin banking’ is where fintech’s future lies.
Late last year, Facebook brought its mobile photo-sharing application Moments to the web in a limited capacity by adding a link to the service in the desktop version of Facebook. We’ve spotted that Facebook also has a standalone web version for the service that offers access to the online albums you’ve previously shared with friends.
However, like the stripped-down version of Moments within Facebook, Moments’ web version is similarly non-functional. While the site displays the full list of albums you’ve created as well as who they’ve been shared with, the common features you’d expect a web version of a photo-sharing app to have simply don’t work.
For example, the buttons for favoriting or commenting on photos don’t work – instead they prompt a pop-up box to appear which directs you to download the Moments mobile application. You can choose to enter in your phone number in this box in order to have the app download link texted to your phone.

It’s like a marketing site for the mobile app, almost.
Also unavailable on the web version is the ability to work with your photos or albums in any other way – you can create new albums, edit existing albums, or share albums with friends.
That begs the question, of course – why bother have a web version of Moments at all? The answer is fairly simple, as it turns out. It gives a way for people who don’t have the Moments app installed the ability to view the photos you’re sharing with them.
Facebook confirmed the website launched “pretty recently,”* but didn’t offer to share its longer-term plans for Moments on the web going forward.
However, not having a fully functioning website may be a misstep for Moments, as it could serve as a means of getting new users interested in the service before committing to yet another mobile app install, and it could increase the engagement from those who are already regular users of the service. After all, expanding to the web is something that’s served other, mobile-first apps well, like Facebook-owned Instagram, for example, and Facebook Messenger. Even Tinder recently debuted a web counterpart.
The existence of Moments, and Facebook’s continued investment in the app, is also more confusing these days, given that the new Stories feature built in to Facebook includes a direct sharing option. That means you can bypass the Moments app entirely in order to privately send photos with a select friend or friends.
The differentiating factor here is that Facebook Stories’ Direct option is meant to be more of a one-off sharing feature, where Moments is about creating albums that can stick around for a longer period of time.
Facebook Moments’ website is here.
*Update: The web experience launched “pretty recently” Facebook had said, but later corrected this to mean months ago. Whoops! The rollout of the functionality that pre-fills the web experience with users’ Moments content was staged, so some may have had earlier than others. 
This morning, the research firm CB Insights, in partnership with the services firm PwC, released a report on the state of VC in the first quarter of this year. It does a great job of breaking down what’s what, so we’re basically just cutting and pasting a handful of its biggest takeaways here and adding a little bit of context in case it’s helpful.
1.) U.S.-based venture backed companies raised $13.9 billion in the first quarter, across 1,104 deals. That’s up 15 percent and 2 percent from the first quarter of 2016 but way below the amount of activity we saw in 2015. (VCs invested more than $20 billion in the second quarter of 2015, for example.) This is a narrative we’ve been watching since early 2016, when an abrupt nosedive in the share price of LinkedIn (months before its acquisition) launched what would become a sustained freakout by both public and private investors.
2.) This one surprised us, but seed activity as a proportion of all deals is on the decline. Seed rounds made up one quarter of all deals in the first quarter; over the last few years, that figure has been north of 30 percent. We’re not immediately sure of how to explain this one, but it’s likely that angel investors are still waiting for some of their older deals to exit. (These things typically take far longer than newer angels in particular appreciate.) There could also be a growing disconnect between the prices founders are asking for and what angel investors are willing to pay. The most optimistic scenario is that angels have grown more discerning about what to fund. (Just kidding. That probably isn’t happening.)
3.) Corporates and corporate VCs are as active as ever, participating in 26 percent of all U.S. deals in the first quarter, which matches their rate of participation in the third quarter of last year, which itself was an eight-quarter high. This one won’t surprise industry observers. When even Sesame Street launches a venture fund . . .
4.) Healthcare is on the rise, with a growing number of VCs enamored of the broader sector, meaning biotech and medical devices and other related equipment. Indeed, according to this new report, healthcare represented 17 percent of all deals in the first quarter, a two-year high. Interestingly, digital health specifically slid 23 percent, though a huge round by the blood testing startup Grail propped up the quarterly dollar amount of capital invested. We’re not sure why more money didn’t flow to biotech startups that are looking to improve on everything from cancer screening to understanding the human microbiome via AI. Possibly investors are taking a deep breath, having already funded a lot of startups that are still testing out their hypotheses.
5.) International investors have shown up in a big way. Whether they’re here to stay is an open question, but international sources of capital represented 25 percent of investors in later-stage deals in U.S. companies in the first quarter, says this new report. The reason, we’d guess: While overzealous U.S. investors have grown weary of some of these unicorn companies — including the hedge funds and mutual funds that have largely backed off over the last 12 months or so —  foreign investors, with not a lot of better options to park their capital, see opportunity. This is especially true as valuations for some of these privately held giants start to slip a bit.
You can check out the full report here; it has a much more granular information that you might find interesting.

Featured Image: Jason Costanza/Flickr UNDER A CC BY 2.0 LICENSE (IMAGE HAS BEEN MODIFIED)
Since the dawn of Azure, Microsoft has talked about how enterprises can benefit from a hybrid cloud approach — that is, using the public cloud while still running some of their applications in their own data centers. Even today, Microsoft says that 80 percent of the companies it talks to still want to use a hybrid cloud approach and to help them move to its cloud services, the company is launching a number of new tools and resources today.
The most important of these is the new Cloud Migration Assessment service. With this, companies can scan their existing IT infrastructure and get an estimate for what it would cost to move these services to Azure (and how much they could save in the process).
Azure users can now also get a discount for moving their Windows Server licenses (with Software Assurance) to Azure. This new Azure Hybrid Use Benefit can save them up to 40 percent and is obviously meant to make it more attractive for existing Windows Server users to move their workloads to the cloud.
For those who want to make that move, the Azure Site Recovery (ASR) tool is also getting a minor update. This service is mostly meant to help enterprises orchestrate their disaster recovery plans, however, it can also be used to migrate existing virtual machines to Azure. It’s currently in use by the likes of Marquette University and United Airlines (no word on whether United dragged its servers over to Azure or whether it was a voluntary re-accommodation). Today’s update adds support for both the new Azure Hybrid Use Benefit and in the coming weeks, it’ll add some new features that will make tagging virtual machines in the Azure portal easier.
Update: even though Microsoft’s own marketing materials names United as an ASR customer, the company has now informed me it is not. I’m sure the company will soon re-accommodate United’s logo. Until then, it’s worth mentioning that Rackspace, Generali and Pantaenius (a yacht insurance company) are ASR customers.
 
A well-known fast food chain – let’s call them Kurger Bing – is debuting a new 15 second ad today set to start running nationally. It starts off simply enough, some dude standing behind the counter of an otherwise empty “restaurant,” addressing the camera. He explains that he doesn’t have the time to fully explain an iconic hamburger to you. Ad time isn’t cheap, even for a successful fast food joint. So he’s got an idea.
He’s going to use your smart home assistant. Google Home, in this case. “OK Google,” he addresses the camera, asking a question designed to trigger devices across the country, reading the first few sentences of the foodstuff’s Wikipedia entry.
It’s a massive monolith of company that paid an ad agency a lot of money for a spot that’s “interactive” and “cool,” playing on the announces of countless people who’ve had Echo triggered by Amazon commercials, not to mention the apparent waking nightmare that is the life of anyone named Alexa over the past couple of years. The company tipped me off beforehand, hoping I’d be equally excited.
Can we just nip this whole thing in the bud right now?
The ad is an inevitability. Someone was bound to get there, and the folks at Kurger Bing beat everyone to the punch. For the company, it’s a way to extend advertising beyond the screen. Between Kendall Jenner ending police violence with a can of sugar water, United executing the literal manifestation of how we all kind of feel about air travel and Sean Spicer, well, being Sean Spicer, the ad campaign likely won’t even register a blip on anyone’s radar.
At best, it’s really annoying for people with the device in their living room. At worst, it once again raises some nagging questions about technological limitations and privacy concerns surrounding these smart assistants.
For starters, there’s the issue of the tech limitations of such a device. It seems we’re still a ways away from smart assistants that are capable of distinguishing voices from one another, and the ad plays on that limitation.
And while I’m sure the company and its connected ad agency have no malicious intent beyond selling some hamburgers, this limitation becomes a larger concern the more pieces of our life we turn over to these devices. Increasingly things like door locks and other potential security threats.
It’s like some early 21st century version of Soupy Sales’ infamous plea for kids around the country to reaching into their parents wallets and grab the “green paper” from their parents wallets, it’s also a sort of cautionary tale about the power of advertising mixed with technology.
The company won’t say precisely why they opted for Home over its far more ubiquitous Amazon counterpart, but it did confirm that wasn’t involved in the spot. And while Google’s read plays like an off-screen continuation of the commercial, it’s simple reading a couple of sentences from Wikipedia. I suspect the user-supported dictionary wasn’t looking to get involved with a hamburger commercial either. And given its open-source nature, this kind of TV/smart device forced synergy is opening the door for some Wiki-based prankery.
The ad’s not fun or cute. It’s not Pizza Hut shoes or McDonald’s VR headset. It’s annoying, and hopefully an opportunity for people to give a second though to the role of TV and always-listening smart home assistants in their lives. Maybe it’s a small piece of vindication for poor, tormented women named Alexa. And hopefully it’s a chance for the makers of smart home assistants to rethink the way they listen.
Update: Looks like the functionality has been shut down. We’ve reached out to Google for comment.
Invites have just dropped for Microsoft’s latest press conference. Details are scant for the “Learn What’s Next” event happening May 2 in New York City, but between the title and the big #MicrosoftEDU hashtag that graces the crudely colored artwork, this looks to be focused on the company’s next big play at the education sector.
Back in January, the company detailed Intune for Education, a cloud-based device management system aimed at addressing one of the its chief shortcomings with regards to school. Chromebooks have seen a massive marketshare increase in US schools over the last several years thanks in part to their management system, which lets IT departments control and configure a slew of devices all at once – and makes it possible to swap devices between student without privacy or security compromises.
Chrome’s other big selling point, naturally, is pricing, and the company fittingly also promised to offer up $189 Windows 10 systems aimed specifically to compete with Chromebooks. This event seems likely to serve as a continuation of that news, as Microsoft works to leverage its own offerings to provide an all-in-one education system that can compete head-to-head with Google’s increasingly popular offering.
But while it seems likely that both hardware and software will be present at the event, we’ve heard from sources close to the company that it’s “highly unlikely” that a Surface Phone or new Surface Pro will be present at the press conference, in spite of rumors to the contrary.
So, the whole thing will likely go down similar to the recent Windows 10 Creators Update event in NYC, albeit with less of a focus on the hot newness in the consumer electronics hardware department. Instead, press conference looks better positioned to offer up solutions designed to focus specifically on the education sector.
Social VR has the potential to shift the bounds of human communication, it’s part of the reason why Facebook has invested billions in the technology.
One of the keys to having positive VR interactions will be having the ability to interpret the emotions of the people you’re chatting with. Today, MindMaze is showing off the MASK, a device that reads the emotions on your face while you’re in VR.
I had a chance to meet with MindMaze CEO Tej Tadi and demo the emotion-tracking product. After strapping the MASK-equipped headset on, I was able to see an onscreen avatar mimic my emotions with startling speed.

What really makes this product stand out is the genius form factor: electrodes are outfitted into the foam liner face pad that is already pressed up against your face when you’re securing your headset. These electrodes get a sense of your facial muscles and can even predict what your emotions will be milliseconds before you fully complete it.
The device senses a limited range of emotions at the moment including smiling, frowning, winking, smirking and raising your eyebrows but there’s so much you can convey in a social VR setting once you unlock body language. Once major headset manufacturers unlock eye-tracking technologies the combination will make social VR experiences that much richer.
MindMaze received the distinction last year of being the first VR-focused startup to receive unicorn status after receiving a $1 billion valuation following a $100 million raise.
MindMaze has been in a more comfortable position than most in the VR industry. They sell their own proprietary headsets to hospitals so they don’t really have to worry about the broader industry or how many headsets Oculus is selling.
“The pressure is off a bit,” Tadi admits.
MindMaze is already in 50 hospitals across Europe and Asia where their technology is helping stroke victims and amputees rehabilitate.
As MindMaze breaks into the consumer market, things grow a bit more uncertain but Tadi insists that the MASK falls in line with the company’s bread-and-butter medical ambitions, that being “commercializing the interface between the brain and VR.”
The company’s social hardware follows announcements late last year that Facebook will be introducing an expansive social platform. While the demo showcased some pretty emotional avatars, it was later revealed that all of the avatars’ smiles and jaw-drops were courtesy of controller gestures.
MindMaze hopes that by capitalizing by the emotions already on people’s faces, they can entice more consumers.
MASK’s form factor is a clear win, and the company says that when the product is eventually available to consumers, it will cost less than $40. Selling VR peripherals direct is a challenging business, so for MindMaze, the main task will be getting top headset manufacturers to bake the tech into future iterations of their products. Tadi tells us that MindMaze is already in talks with manufacturers, though he wasn’t able to share names.
Normally adding 200 million users in 8 months to a product that already has a billion would reduce the average engagement, but most apps don’t have Facebook Messenger’s network effect. Now with 1.2 billion monthly active users, “we increased engagement massively in terms of number of messages sent per active user. We had double-digit growth percentage-wise” Facebook’s head of Messenger David Marcus tells me.
Despite its bots not living up to the hype, Messenger had another banner year. It grew just a bit slower, since last time it got from 800 million to 1 billion users in just six months. Its daily US iOS App Annie download rank is up from a year ago, though a little down from a high point in June. But Marcus says the chat app is transcending being where people “find their Facebook friends they don’t have a phone number for.” For some it’s become “a primary communications channel.”
According to Sensor Tower, worldwide iOS and Android downloads of Facebook Messenger grew 5.66% from 145.3 million in Q1 2016 to 153.5M in Q1 2017.
Messenger’s iOS download rank is up from a year ago, but down a bit from June. It’s been fluctuating between #4 and #12 recently
Now Messenger is working to become more than just the most popular SMS replacement in the Western world.
One approach is copying what’s working elsewhere. Marcus says the app’s Snapchat Stories clone Messenger Day is off to a good start. “Usage with teens is much higher” than some might have expected, “which is cool” Marcus says. “We’ve built a product that teens use on Messenger!” It’s very distributed. It’s going reasonably well. The participation rate is very good compared to our best Stories product” he notes, alluding to Instagram Stories.
Messenger Day has a big opportunity since its host app has twice as many people on it as 600 million-user Instagram. Yet at least amongst writers at TechCrunch, Messenger Day hasn’t quite taken off. Maybe we’re just old.
Messenger also added a Snapchat-esque camera with funky animated selfie masks and illustrated filters, as Facebook latches onto the visual communication trend. In video, it launched copied Houseparty’s split-screen group video chat. “Group video calling is becoming a big thing with teens especially with masks and effects because it’s live” Marcus notes.

Meanwhile, Messenger is branching out beyond traditional person-to-person communication. Games have given people something to do while waiting for message replies, or a reason to start a conversation with a high score challenge. And now its opening up its artificial intelligence assistant M to provide users with suggestions of Messenger utility features they could use like location sharing, payments, stickers, reminders, and ride hailing.
Now the question is how Messenger can make money via ads, not taking a cut of payments, without interrupting the experience. Marcus says structural changes to the app coming at F8 should provide it with new opportunities in this realm. It’s tested sponsored messages from companies you’ve already talked to, and a carousel of ads in the inbox. And it’s driving revenue back on Facebook with News Feed ads that start a Messenger conversation with a product sales rep or bot when clicked.
Yet even if Messenger doesn’t start churning out cash, it’s contributing massively to Facebook’s success by locking people into its ecosystem. At a time when chat has emerged as the center of the mobile universe, and Facebook’s biggest competitor Snapchat is rooted in private communication, Messenger has fortified the blue app kingdom.
The enterprise voice space grows hotter today as VoiceOps announces its seed round led by Accel with participation from Founders Fund and Lowercase Capital. The YC-backed startup aims to support sales teams by offering managers clear insights into what tactics are being used on the front lines.
Founders, Daria Evdokimova, Ethan Barhydt and Nate Becker designed a machine learning-powered system that monitors calls made by enterprise sales teams. Using their own metrics for success, managers can then compare the performance of their sales reps on a dashboard. VoiceOps can surface the use of specific sales tactics like upsell attempts and time spent explaining the benefits of a given product or service.
Daria Evdokimova, CEO of VoiceOps
Evdokimova, CEO of VoiceOps, explained to me that many large sales teams, that operate transactionally, still have manual quality assurance teams listening to and flagging sales calls. It’s tough for managers, playing the role of blindfolded coaches, to provide actionable feedback to reps on the ground. This was the case with Weebly, one of the startup’s early customers.
“Weebly used to have a QA team that would just listen to calls 24/7 and manually fill out score cards,” Evdokimova said.
That kind of inefficiency is easily automatable with today’s automatic speech recognition and natural language processing. Enterprise tools like VoiceOps hold an advantage over assistants like Siri and Alexa because they’re designed for singular use cases. The creators of VoiceOps spent extra time fine tuning to increase accuracy for things like recognizing the sales vocabulary.

VoiceOps differentiates itself within the already crowded enterprise voice space by targeting PMs rather than individual sales users. Tools like Chorus.ai are designed to support individual members of a sales team. Chorus is optimized for transcribing calls, much like VoiceOps, but its sweet spot is flagging action items and sharing best practices. In contrast, VoiceOps helps managers understand exactly what’s happening on their team’s sales calls. The platform is a good checks and balances system to augment coaching.
An SEC Form D filed by VoiceOps in December 2016 under its old name, Clover Intelligence, indicates that it was in the process of raising a $2 million round, of which it had secured $1.975 million. The startup opted not to disclose its total fundraising so it’s not immediately clear what transpired in the months since.
Evdokimova says that VoiceOps intends to scale its own internal sales team over the next few months and that the company is prioritizing deployment.
Disrupt NY is but a month away, and we’re more excited than ever about our brand new Founder Spotlight.
The Founder Spotlight gives young but proven startups the chance to tell their origin story, from that original “Aha!” moment to the pivot, if there was one, to today. It will also give budding entrepreneurs the opportunity to hear actual founders talk about their journey from their old job to being top dog at a rapidly growing startup.
We’ve already revealed the first three companies participating in the Founder Spotlight, and today we have three more for you: Capsule, Nestio, and PS Dept.
Capsule
Capsule is a re-invention of the pharmacy. The company has built out its own team of pharmacists and an actual brick-and-mortar pharmacy in NYC so that users can have their prescriptions filled and delivered whenever they want. While most pharmacies invest profits back into the retail side of the store, selling candy and magazines, Capsule instead invests its returns back into its chat services, letting users ask questions and get medical information via SMS, web chat, and email. Capsule has raised money from Thrive, but has yet to disclose the amount.
Nestio
Nestio first launched in 2011 as a consumer-facing service to help renters find apartments, aggregating Trulia and Streeteasy listings in a single app. Since, however, Nestio has pivoted to solve for the core problem: out-of-date listings. Brokers, management companies and landlords have been using antiquated technology for years to market and update their listings. With Nestio, which operates on a standard SaaS model, those same parties are able to communicate amongst each other in real time, providing a much better experience for their own clients, the renters.
PS Dept
PS Dept combines big data and the wits of a real person to make sure its users have the easiest, most accurate access to information around designer clothing. Most high-fashion shoppers know what they want and they want it now, but access to information around availability can be difficult to come by. PS Dept uses an easy messaging platform to help users find the bag, shoes, or blouse that they’ve been searching for, while providing brands and retailers with a dedicated customer service arm. PS Dept has raised $6.4 million to date.
Alongside the super stars of the Founder Spotlight, Disrupt NY’s speaker list is downright awesome. We encourage you to check out speakers here, and grab yourself a ticket to Disrupt right here.
Sponsors make TechCrunch events possible. If you’re interested in learning more about sponsorships with TechCrunch, shoot an email to sponsors@techcrunch.com.

Featured Image: filmstroem/iStock
Food delivery startups have proven to be a hard business – focus is often on growth more than profits, with high burn rates, low returns and they can be logistics nightmares. But nevermind all that, a new, more niche prepared meal delivery service seems to be popping up — for babies.
Yumi (formerly Caer) announced its launch just last week; Gather, Ayesha Curry’s meal kit company, also added a baby food delivery service; and Thistle, a healthy meal delivery startup in the Bay Area, now makes baby food, too. And then there’s Little Spoon, a new baby food delivery startup funded by Tinder’s Sean Rad and Kyle O’Brien from Chobani.
Co-founder Michelle Muller came up with Little Spoon after realizing, aside from doing it all herself, there weren’t any fresh, healthy options for her little one around New York City.
“There are better options out there for your dog than there are for your baby,” she told TechCrunch.
Sure there are already organic options at the supermarket. Beechnut was a “natural organic” brand many of my friends with babies brought up when I asked about some healthier fare. Little Spoon will also have to contend with Plum Organics and the age-old Gerber brand.
And it’s not clear how much of a need there is for this type of service in the market. Babies don’t need much and it seems pretty easy to mash some bananas or make pureed carrots in the food processor at home.
But, should you be too busy and want a fresher option than something that’s been sitting in the grocery aisle for possibly months at room temperature conditions, Little Spoon offers an alternative — at least in New York for now.
However, several other baby meal startups haven’t fared well in the past and Little Spoon could become another casualty if it makes the same mistakes. Curry’s Gather, which launched under a year ago, just redirects to Curry’s Instagram feed now. Yumi was in *beta last year as Caer but has since renamed itself and says it won’t open the doors till “mid-2017.” Shoogies, a New York City-based prepared meal delivery service seems to have shut down. Whether that’s because there wasn’t really a market or some other reason is unknown as the founders were unreachable for comment.
*Yumi says it was running small tests last year and had not officially launched.
But, Little Spoon points out that, unlike some of these other startups, it owns the facility where it produces the baby food and can control the process. It also uses a technique called high-pressure processing (HPP), which is basically what happens with cold-pressed juices and is used to lock in the nutrients and neutralize bad bacteria instead of using additives, preservatives or simply flash-freezing like some other brands.
And Little Spoon could easily expand beyond the Big Apple, its co-founders contend. That’s because its food processing facility is actually in California and I’m told the products can ship anywhere in a day.
But you don’t order for your baby on the daily. Instead, Little Spoon will ship you up to two weeks worth of 4 oz. sized meals for your little one at $2.99 each meal for three meals a day, if you buy in bulk, or up to $4.99 individually (a 4 oz. jar of Beechnut Classics bananas for comparison, was $4.86 for a 10 pack at Walmart). Little Spoon flavors and meals also change frequently to keep it interesting and age appropriate.
The team behind Little Spoon consists of Muller as the “chief mom,” CEO Ben Lewis, chief product officer Angela Vranich and CMO Lisa Barnett, who left her position as a partner with Sherpa Foundry to help co-found the company.
So far the startup has taken a cool couple million from angel investors, including the aforementioned Rad and O’Brien, and plans to raise more as needed.
Netherlands-based accelerator program Rockstart, which focuses on helping startups through their first 1,000 days, has launched a new vertical program for artificial intelligence startups — touting it as Europe’s first AI-focused accelerator.
The AI program will be accepting applications from next month, and Rockstart says it will pick ten startups for the six-month program, which will commence in September. Teams will be based in s’Hertogenbosch.
Rockstart has been accelerating startups since 2012, and is backed by partners including Google, Amazon and IBM. It says the new AI track will be supported by mentors and partners including the locally-based Jheronimus Academy of Data Science (JADS).
There’s no specific industry focus for the program — with the idea being to attract AI startups from a range of industries. “We consciously decided not to narrow it down in order to have startups from different industries working under one roof — that’s, in my opinion, where innovation often comes from,” says a spokesman.
“We indeed have seen a number of startups with AI at their core in our other programs over the past couple of years. With this new program, we want to be able to add more value for startups like those by delivering relevant tech/business expertise, knowledge, and partnerships,” he adds.
The selection criteria for the AI track will be the same as for Rockstart’s other programs.
“We’re looking first of all at the team, and then at the product/idea and whether it’s actually demanded by the respective industry. If all you have is a hammer, everything looks like a nail, so one of our goals is to avoid employing a technology for the technology’s sake. In the selection process we’re going to focus, among other things, on whether AI is really the best solution for the problem the startup is trying to solve,” the spokesman tells TechCrunch.
Startups accepted for the program will receive €20,000 cash and €80,000 of “in-kind funding”, office space in Den Bosch for the duration, and support from mentors from relevant industries, as well as more than 50 perks and deals (billed as worth some €600,000) from program partners.
Named mentors for the AI track include Dr Eric Postma, professor at JADS; Jasper Wognum, the founder of BrainCreators; Dr Mykola Pechenizkiy, professor at Eindhoven University of Technology; and Christoph Auer-Welsbach, partner at IBM Ventures and initiator at City.AI.
Rockstart says it expects to take a 6 percent stake in startups entering the program — after they’ve raised their next round of funding.
Last month US-based startup hothouse factory Y Combinator also launched a dedicated AI track. So while all startups will likely be AI startups in the future, there are dedicated accelerator programs springing up to plug the gap in the meanwhile.
If you’re a fan of the Star Wars (many people are) then you may also be a fan of this trailer for Star Wars: Battlefront II, which just popped up a bit early on Vimeo. The trailer is amazing, showing action-packed sequences rendered using the in-game engine, which seems to be able to deliver top-notch visuals of the variety normally reserved for cutscenes.
Perhaps you played Star Wars: Battlefront when it came out back in 2015, and perhaps you don’t have any really precious lasting memories about the experience. The original was some solid casual fanservice, but few people I knew were blown away by the game. This trailer suggests a more compelling narrative and a new protagonist, so maybe there’s a stronger focus on storytelling and less emphasis on just making super fans feel like they’re participating in the existing stories they know and love.
We should find out more about the game when the trailer makes its official debut during the Star Wars Celebration happening April 13-16 in Orlando.
Teamable wants to know your social network. Well, its software does. The reason: it might find someone suited to fill an opening at your company who — no offense to your intelligence — might not necessarily spring to mind.
How does it work? By churning through your contact lists (think Gmail, Facebook, GitHub, any other sources of contacts that employees are willing to share), it finds connections via machine learning. Maybe you know more engineers than you’d realized, for example. Or, when it comes to an effort to hire more diverse candidates, maybe you have more friends or acquaintances from underrepresented groups than you know.
The point, says CEO and cofounder Laura Bilazarian, is that “referrals are a great source for new hires. They outperform most other sources, but until now, it’s been a memory-based process. Maybe you’d come up with one or two names.” Meanwhile, an explosion in both social connections, AI, and machine learning is enabling the company to tap into what it says are the 1,000-plus connections that tech employees tend to have on average across their various online networks.
If it sounds like a potential privacy headache for employees, we get it. But Bilazarian says employees need only provide the platform with their contacts’ first and last names. Teamable does the search work after that, scouring for skill sets, experience, location and more. Also important to note: when it comes up with a match, the employee is asked to make a warm introduction only if he or she agrees with Teamable’s suggestions. “We’re not spamming anyone,” Bilazarian says. “All messaging goes back through [the employee].”
Certainly, companies seem to like Teamable’s calculations. Bilazarian says that more than 90 businesses are already subscribers to its SaaS business, including the payments company Stripe and the ride-share outfit Lyft.
In fact, according to Bilazarian — a Wharton grad who worked in finance previously — the 38-person, three-year-old company turned profitable late last year.
That “atypical” amount of traction for a young startup convinced True Ventures to back it, says partner Tony Conrad. True just led Teamable’s $5 million Series A round, with participation from SaaStr Fund.

Yet True is even more excited about the company because of that focus on employee referrals, which are the fastest, cheapest, and most effective way for companies to hire.
According to a study by JobVite, it takes 29 days on average to hire a referred candidate, compared with 39 days to hire someone through a job posting and 55 days to hire through a career site. And companies that use employee referral programs have average retention rates of 46 percent, compared to the 33 percent retention rates of organizations that only use career sites.
“Companies want their employees to recommend open positions to their friends, but it’s awkward to push employees to become recruiters,” notes Conrad. Teamable “takes away that friction by scouring employees social networks automatically and making it a one click, ‘Hey, this friend of yours looks like a potential fit, want to send them a note?'”
So far, Teamable has largely focused on engineering hires and on the tech sector more broadly — a product of the company being based in San Francisco, says Bilazarian. (The company also has a second office in Yerevan, Armenia.)
Despite competing in an increasingly crowded market for recruiting software, it sees opportunities to expand quickly. Says Bilazarian, “We’ve worked with hedge funds, investment banks, and healthcare and cancer research companies. What we’re doing works in any industry.”
Above, the company’s cofounders in Yerevan, Armenia, where they have a second office. Pictured, from left to right: VP of engineering Vazgen Hakobjanyan, chief architect Hovhannes Nurijanyan, CEO Laura Bilazarian, VP of product Meruzhan Danielyan.
Time Warner’s Turner and Warner Bros. have joined the now-crowded market of subscription-based streaming services with the launch of Boomerang, a $5 per month service that streams both classic cartoons and current series. Boomerang’s catalog will offer shows from Warner Bros.’ Hanna-Barbera, Looney Tunes and MGM animation library of over 5,000 titles, which includes new, original series as well as well-known classics, like “Scooby Doo,” “Tom & Jerry,” “Bugs Bunny,” “The Jetsons,” “The Fintstones,” and others.
The service, however, launched, with a more limited selection than initially promised when it was first unveiled in March.
According the website’s FAQ, there are 1,000 episodes currently available for streaming with more content being added weekly. Some of the expected shows have not yet arrived, either, like “The Flintstones” and “The Jetsons,” for example. Presumably, these series should be added in time.
Whether or not there’s a market for another niche offering like this streaming service for cartoons remains to be seen, though.
Today’s top streaming services like Netflix, Amazon and Hulu already offer a host of kid-friendly programming, ranging from blockbuster movies, licensed TV shows, as well as a growing number of original programs developed for kids. HBO also now has “Sesame Street” and Nickelodeon has its own streaming service Noggin.

While Boomerang’s library is largely classics, it aims to offer its own original programming, too, including Warner Bros.’ new series, “Warner Bros. Animation’s Dorothy and the Wizard of Oz,” and an overhaul of a Hanna-Barbera classic, “Wacky Races.” (“Dorothy” is also not available at launch, we should note.)
Boomerang says it will eventually include a variety of what are now becoming standard features for any subscription offering, like personalized recommendations, family profiles, offline viewing via downloads, as well as Spanish-language audio. But the website at launch is just a straightforward catalog of shows, just over a dozen movies, and a few customized playlists.
The service itself is being powered by technology built by DramaFever, a Warner Bros. Digital Networks company.

The service’s name may already be familiar to animation fans, as it’s taken from the cable television channel, Boomerang TV, which offers a similar – though not identical – cartoon-filled lineup. But instead of requiring viewers to authenticate with their pay TV provider, as many networks have done to cater to a mobile audience, Boomerang is squarely going after the cord cutters with its streaming service.
In terms of pricing, the better bargain over the $4.99 per month option, is the discounted rate of $39.99 per year. This brings the price down to just over $3 per month, which feels more reasonable for a limited selection like this. Of course, you’ll have to decide for yourself if you really need another streaming service in your life at this point.
Boomerang is available in the U.S. on the web, iOS and Android at launch, with plans to expand to Amazon, Roku, Chromecast, and Apple TV in the future.
Home robotics is an area of intense interest, with many large companies exploring how they might best address the potential market. Bosch subsidiary Mayfield Robotics has Kuri, and automakers including Toyota and Honda have their own approach, which a focus on independence for people continuing into our senior years. Startup OhmniLabs thinks that human connection is what will convince people to bring robots into their home, and their first robot, Ohmni, is built with bringing people together in mind.
The Ohmni is a home robot that might look familiar if you’ve ever been in a meeting room or attended a conference where there was also a telepresence robot present. It’s basically a display with a built-in camera sitting atop a tall shaft, with a base that includes a flat platform and wheels for getting around. Those are powered by brushless motors, which OhmniLabs says will result in very quite operation, and the whole thing folds down for easy carry-on capabilities, weighing just 20 lbs in total so that most people can easily pick it up should they need to do so.
Ohmni is also designed around ease-of-use: The whole point of the project is to seamlessly bring together families and friends separated by large distances, so OmniLabs focused a lot of effort on making it usable out of the box, without any complicated computer-based setup required. In fact, you can even have Wi-Fi network credentials pre-installed so it’ll connect out of the box, something the OhmniLab team can pre-program without a human ever seeing your SSID name and login.

The robot itself is also 100 percent remote-controlled, and has autodocking functionality for finding its charging station and plugging in when it’s running low. The display head of Ohmni also tilts, giving you a floor-to-ceiling, and more natural interaction options.
OhmniLabs co-founders Jared Go and Thuc Vu came up with the idea for Ohmni after realizing that telepresence in structured, office environments might be a neat trick and novelty, but its real potential resided at home, where the unstructured environment meant that a robot that could replicate the experience of dropping in on, or even living with a close relative would be a much more engaging experience over time.
Vu, who studied AI and robotics at Carnegie Mellon and Stanford, previously founded two companies, one of which sold to Google. Go also attended both CMU and Stanford, and has expertise in network reliability algorithms, as well as mechanical and electrical engineering and industrial design. But both wanted to create something that would change people’s daily lives, hence the founding of OhmniLabs.


“When we started the company, we wanted to do something with robots that could help people,” Go explained in an interview. “A lot of companies are already focused on automation, manufacturing, saving costs, and probably reducing the number of jobs, but we believe you need to counterbalance that with robots that improve quality of life.”
Already, Ohmni has done not only that, but actually saved a life in one instance. Vu told me about how during their preliminary testing, one user in San Diego had Ohmni in his mother’s house. During a business trip, he called his mother, a Mexican immigrant with no English language skill, and was worried when she didn’t answer. He activated Ohmni and found her in bed, nearly unresponsive due to what turned out to be a bad urinary track infection. He was able to call both 911 and his brother while staying in touch with her via the robot and they managed to get her to a hospital where she was treated.
Aging populations, and the issue of how to address changing modes of family life that can see members more distantly separated, have led many companies to explore how robots could help with continued independence and quality of life. Ohmni might be one answer that’s available now, without any significant advances needed in basic technology.
Ohmni is available during a pre-order campaign via Indiegogo, with the first shipments starting in just four months. The robots costs $1,395, with a range of color and material options made possible because each is built in OhmniLabs’ own Santa Clara workshop. Final retail pricing is expected to be around $1,895 once the campaign concludes.
Yes, Toyota used both “millennial” and “casualcore” to dreadful effect in the press release for the new FT-4X crossover SUV concept it revealed during the New York International Auto Show. But I still want this adorable car box to become a real thing, because it reminds me of both the Honda Element and the Toyota FJ Cruiser, vehicles I love so well. The FT-4X likewise presents a satisfyingly angular box you can easily put your dog and outdoor gear into, and Toyota’s also sprinkled tech features liberally throughout its interior like so much gadget blogger catnip.
The FT-4X is the product of Toyota’s Calty Design Research Newport Beach design studio, which also came up with its fun Concept-i vehicle from CES this year, which was likewise a cause célèbre among us tech watchers. The FT-4X doesn’t house a friendly AI companion, but it does offer up a rear hatch that can act as a shelter from the elements, as well as a side-opening door for easy loading and unloading.
There are power outlets in the back, and USB outlets integrated into the armrests in the cabin. The rear cabin light pops out to act as a flashlight, and there are also integrated water bottles and storage boxes built into armrests and door grips. It’s got more modularity than you could ever hope to need, but will still definitely want to have available regardless.



The car has a “wet zone” where you can safely throw your swimsuits, towels and rainwear, and there’s even a GoPro Hero5 Session camera mounted into the rearview mirror on the driver’s side to get action footage when you really put this thing through its paces.
Basically this is the height of aspirational wish fulfilment for people who work at a desk all day but also consider themselves truly “outdoors” people, and post pictures to Instagram from semi-rugged vacations to prove it. I am that person: Make it real and let me buy this car Toyota.
Toyota is introducing a new robotic leg brace called the Welwalk WW-1000 that can help patients with partial paralysis affecting one side of their body walk again. The robotic exoframe is worn on the affected leg, with a large motor component at the knee joint that provides just enough assistance to the patient, letting them recover their own walking ability therapeutically over time.
The robotic wearable is paired with a custom treadmill and a harness that is anchored above the patient, with medical staff able to watch and control the whole apparatus from a convenient touchscreen input device. The Associated Press reports that the Welwalk system will be made available to medical institutions in Japan later this year, with a rental model that charges a one-time fee of around $9,000 and then $3,200 after that on a monthly basis. Those costs are not overly burdensome by medial equipment standards, and the system could drastically reduce recovery time for patients overcoming partial paralysis resulting from conditions include strokes.



JAPAN-HEALTH-ROBOTS-REHABILITATION-TOYOTA
A model demonstrates how the rehabilitation-assist robot Welwalk WW-1000, developed by Japan's Toyota Motor Corporation, helps to assist in flexing and extending the knee while walking on a treadmill during a press preview in Tokyo on April 12, 2017.
Toyota Motor Corporation announced that the company will launch a rental service for the Welwalk WW-1000 robot from the fall of 2017. The Welwalk WW-1000 is designed to aid in the rehabilitation of individuals with lower limb paralysis as a result of stroke and other causes. / AFP PHOTO / Kazuhiro NOGI        (Photo credit should read KAZUHIRO NOGI/AFP/Getty Images)



JAPAN-HEALTH-ROBOTS-REHABILITATION-TOYOTA
A model demonstrates how the rehabilitation-assist robot Welwalk WW-1000, developed by Japan's Toyota Motor Corporation, helps to assist in flexing and extending the knee while walking on a treadmill during a press preview in Tokyo on April 12, 2017.
Toyota Motor Corporation announced that the company will launch a rental service for the Welwalk WW-1000 robot from the fall of 2017. The Welwalk WW-1000 is designed to aid in the rehabilitation of individuals with lower limb paralysis as a result of stroke and other causes. / AFP PHOTO / Kazuhiro NOGI        (Photo credit should read KAZUHIRO NOGI/AFP/Getty Images)



JAPAN-HEALTH-ROBOTS-REHABILITATION-TOYOTA
A model demonstrates how the rehabilitation-assist robot Welwalk WW-1000, developed by Japan's Toyota Motor Corporation, helps to assist in flexing and extending the knee while walking on a treadmill during a press preview in Tokyo on April 12, 2017.
Toyota Motor Corporation announced that the company will launch a rental service for the Welwalk WW-1000 robot from the fall of 2017. The Welwalk WW-1000 is designed to aid in the rehabilitation of individuals with lower limb paralysis as a result of stroke and other causes. / AFP PHOTO / Kazuhiro NOGI        (Photo credit should read KAZUHIRO NOGI/AFP/Getty Images)



JAPAN-HEALTH-ROBOTS-REHABILITATION-TOYOTA
A model demonstrates how the rehabilitation-assist robot Welwalk WW-1000, developed by Japan's Toyota Motor Corporation, helps to assist in flexing and extending the knee while walking on a treadmill during a press preview in Tokyo on April 12, 2017.
Toyota Motor Corporation announced that the company will launch a rental service for the Welwalk WW-1000 robot from the fall of 2017. The Welwalk WW-1000 is designed to aid in the rehabilitation of individuals with lower limb paralysis as a result of stroke and other causes. / AFP PHOTO / Kazuhiro NOGI        (Photo credit should read KAZUHIRO NOGI/AFP/Getty Images)



JAPAN-HEALTH-ROBOTS-REHABILITATION-TOYOTA
A model demonstrates how the rehabilitation-assist robot Welwalk WW-1000, developed by Japan's Toyota Motor Corporation, helps to assist in flexing and extending the knee while walking on a treadmill during a press preview in Tokyo on April 12, 2017.
Toyota Motor Corporation announced that the company will launch a rental service for the Welwalk WW-1000 robot from the fall of 2017. The Welwalk WW-1000 is designed to aid in the rehabilitation of individuals with lower limb paralysis as a result of stroke and other causes. / AFP PHOTO / Kazuhiro NOGI        (Photo credit should read KAZUHIRO NOGI/AFP/Getty Images)



JAPAN-HEALTH-ROBOTS-REHABILITATION-TOYOTA
A model demonstrates how the rehabilitation-assist robot Welwalk WW-1000, developed by Japan's Toyota Motor Corporation, helps to assist in flexing and extending the knee while walking on a treadmill during a press preview in Tokyo on April 12, 2017.
Toyota Motor Corporation announced that the company will launch a rental service for the Welwalk WW-1000 robot from the fall of 2017. The Welwalk WW-1000 is designed to aid in the rehabilitation of individuals with lower limb paralysis as a result of stroke and other causes. / AFP PHOTO / Kazuhiro NOGI        (Photo credit should read KAZUHIRO NOGI/AFP/Getty Images)



JAPAN-HEALTH-ROBOTS-REHABILITATION-TOYOTA
A model demonstrates how the rehabilitation-assist robot Welwalk WW-1000, developed by Japan's Toyota Motor Corporation, helps to assist in flexing and extending the knee while walking on a treadmill during a press preview in Tokyo on April 12, 2017.
Toyota Motor Corporation announced that the company will launch a rental service for the Welwalk WW-1000 robot from the fall of 2017. The Welwalk WW-1000 is designed to aid in the rehabilitation of individuals with lower limb paralysis as a result of stroke and other causes. / AFP PHOTO / Kazuhiro NOGI        (Photo credit should read KAZUHIRO NOGI/AFP/Getty Images)



 View Slideshow


Previous
Next
Exit


Reductions in recovery time come from how accurate the Welwalk system can be in terms of tweaking the amount of support it provides: Rehabilitating patients affected by this kind of partial paralysis involves gradually stepping back the amount of reliance they have on therapeutic support, until they’re able to walk independently once again. Toyota’s robotic brace includes built-in sensors that know exactly how much support to provide the patient at any given point, letting making sure they aren’t either over-reliant on support, or rushed before they’re ready, potentially resulting in re-injury.
Toyota has been working on robotics for many years now, and its Toyota Research Institute arm is devoted specifically to helping create technology that increases independence and quality of life for an aging population. Hyundai also demonstrated a range of personal support robotic wearables last year, and it’s likely to be an increased area of focus among automakers in general as their turn their attention and business focus to overall mobility, beyond just vehicles and transportation.

Featured Image: KAZUHIRO NOGI/Getty Images
We’re pleased to announce the addition of pitches and demos at Session: Robotics, our upcoming event centered around the issues concerning the robotics community. Students and startups should apply now for slots for the event, taking place July 17 in Boston at MIT’s stunning Kresge Auditorium.
We’re looking for students to demo and early stage startups to pitch. If selected, both will get free tickets and exhibit space at the event. Use the form below to apply.
This opportunity will put participants in front of the companies, founders and engineers driving the robotics field forward. Pitch-off participants will get several minutes to make their case in a competition for a chance to exhibit their creation at Disrupt SF. Selected participants will reveal their company to the audience and a group of expert judges who will ultimately pick a winner.
Students should apply for the demo slots, which feature more time on the main stage to tell their story. High school students to grad students should apply. We’re looking for projects that can shift the industry. Please note, you must have a working robotic demo for this opportunity.
Over the last few weeks, TechCrunch has met with countless robotics companies in Boston, Pittsburgh and elsewhere. This event is going to be epic. The lineup of speakers and companies participating is amazing and there’s still an opportunity to get involved. Drop us a line with speaker and topic suggestions.
Our aim is to bring together the key players in robotics. That includes the investors and founders focused on building the next iRobot, Kiva and Intuitive Surgical. We’ll stir into that mix the technologists, researchers and engineering students working on the latest stuff, like soft robotics, collaborative robotics, undersea and airborne robotics and that welcoming, all-purpose robot you always wanted to meet you at the door with a cold beer.
Tickets for the event will be available shortly. Seating is very limited so don’t wait. Grab them while you can.
We are also happy to announce that MIT’s Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence Laboratory (CSAIL) is a key sponsor. The event is absolutely global, but there is no better place to stage the gathering than Boston.




Rules governing the use of food delivery robots remain to be seen across the US. But major food businesses are investigating the possibilities already. In the latest deal, Yelp Eat24 has begun testing delivery by robot in partnership with Marble in select San Francisco neighborhoods.
TechCrunch spied Marble’s delivery robots, stickered with a Yelp Eat24 logo, earlier this month. But the companies announced their robot delivery service officially today.

Marble is one of a handful of ventures developing ground-based robots that can navigate autonomously to a customer’s address. Their machines look like a large kitchen appliance crossed with a Mars rover.
Users order as they normally would through the Yelp Eat24 site or app. They are asked if they’re cool with robot delivery. If they opt in, they get a pin code texted to their phone, which they can use to unlock the robot’s cargo bay when their Marble delivery arrives. After retrieving their food, they close the door and the robot returns to Marble HQ or another restaurant.
Matt Delaney, CEO and cofounder of the San Francisco startup said, “We’re starting with meals, but think our robots will be useful for everything from groceries, to pharmacy and parcel delivery in the long run.” Marble’s robots are designed to be “courteous in an urban setting,” Delaney added.
With on-board lidar, cameras and ultrasonic sensors, as well as Nvidia’s Jetson TX1 AI supercomputers, Marble’s robots perceive the environment around them. They can operate day or night, using high-res, 3-D maps of the sidewalks, buildings and more in the neighborhoods where the company offers its services.
Structurally, the entire back section of the Marble delivery robot can be swapped out. While Marble hasn’t built this feature yet, it plans to someday  offer “temperature control,” turning its robots into a kind of roving refrigerators or ovens. For now, Marble will rely on Yelp Eat24 “heat bags” to keep food warm while traveling a short distance, typically within one mile, from a restaurant to the customer’s door.
Marble cofounders (L-R): Jason Calaiaro, Matt Delaney and Kevin Peterson.
Yelp’s user-generated reviews have long influenced the restaurant business, but the company only began to facilitate food delivery following the acquisition of Eat24 in early 2015. Head of Delivery Operations for Yelp Eat24, Shalin Sheth, said that today the company works with about 40,000 different restaurants. Most do their own delivery. But Yelp offers a partner program connecting them with fleets that can deliver their food if needed.
The partnership with Marble is mostly experimental, he said. “People running restaurants are going to want to know, should I start using technologies like this as they come online? We need to have answers for them. We need to figure out what works.”
Yelp Eat24 is paying Marble just like it would any other delivery partner. So, Marble gets a per-delivery fee and any tips that people who order feel inclined to give them. It’s not likely that people will feel compelled to dole out tips to a robot, though.
For the time being, Marble is sending a human “chaperone” alongside each one of its delivery robots in San Francisco said Harrison Shih, Marble’s head of product. That’s partly to tell curious passersby all about their robots, but also to gather community feedback. Additionally, Marble robots are observed via monitors back at company headquarters.

Marble developed its robots at the hardware foundry Lemnos Labs in San Francisco. The company has so far raised $4 million in seed funding in a round led by Eclipse Ventures, joined by Maven Ventures, Amplify Partners and Lemnos’ venture fund.
Eclipse Partner Greg Reichow said Marble’s team had a background building space-grade systems, which gives them an advantage in building robotics for use in normal gravity, even autonomous vehicles that will operate in uncontrollable environments. He said, “Their focus on addressing human interaction and how to be a good member of the community will be a key differentiator in their long term success.”
Marble faces direct competition from delivery robot makers Starship Technologies and Dispatch.ai. More broadly, it faces competition from emerging drone delivery businesses like Flirtey, and established food delivery companies including Uber with its embattled self-driving car technology and UberEATS food delivery platform.





Featured Image: Marble.io
Sisense introduced a new tool today called Pulse, which uses machine learning to trigger an alert when it detects results outside of normal parameters for a particular metric.
A user can set a Pulse alert to monitor a metric or KPI such as sales activity or win rate. The machine learning component watches the chosen metric and learns over time what’s normal. When it detects an anomaly, it sends an alert to the user. What’s more, it can determine how the metric has changed over time, so it doesn’t continue to trigger alerts for the new normal.
This approach is part of Sisense’s mission to simplify business intelligence, company CEO Amir Orad told TechCrunch. Last year his company introduced an Amazon Echo Skill to allow users to ask Alexa about Sisense data. Pulse gives those users access to data without deliberately going into the tool to seek it out.
“This is a direct continuation of what we’ve been doing — [this notion of] Sisense everywhere where we can push insights into the hands of users. Pulse is another step in that direction. We’ve started with the ability to assign alerts on interesting stuff,” he explained.
In the conventional way of using a tool like Sisense, you fire it up and look at the data. As part of this process, you may see something that’s particularly interesting or crucial to you. You can set a Pulse alert and let the system warn you when a metric is out of whack. Orad says this is flipping the way people have typically used business intelligence tools.
Photo: Sisense
“The value is that, traditionally you are going to your computer and asking a question and getting a report. It’s more interesting when it’s getting pushed to you,” he said. It’s certainly easier, especially when the tool is using machine learning to look at the historical numbers related to this metric.

Related Articles
Sisense announces bots for Slack, Skype, Facebook Messenger and Telegram
Sisense-Amazon Echo integration lets you ask Alexa questions about your business data
SiSense Raises $30M More To Bring Big Data Analytics To Businesspeople

“You plot a curve over time and see what is typical in the curve. When you get out of that curve, and there is a significant difference, you get an alert,” he said.
Orad says Pulse doesn’t just have to produce an alert. It could also trigger an action or start a workflow. Sisense has partnered with Zapier, a workflow tool not unlike IFTTT, which enables users to trigger an action or set of actions based on certain conditions. In the Sisense case, it could begin a workflow for new customers or restocking inventory (or any business process).
For now, Sisense is concentrating on the power of the alerts to let users know when something has changed significantly without having to explicitly ask the tool. “We see our mission as simple: simplify complex data so that business users can get value everywhere all the time. The only way to do that is by putting actionable intelligence in their hands,” he said.

Featured Image: Science Photo Library/Getty Images
Amazon FreeTime, the subscription service offering kid-friendly books, videos, apps and games, is today rolling out a feature called Discussion Cards that will help parents better understand the content their child is viewing, reading or playing. The feature will be a part of a new Parent Dashboard that will also include activity reports and other insights into how the child has been using their device.
With the Discussion Cards, the idea is to help parents have more productive conversations about whatever it is the child is engaging with at the time. The cards may also suggest ways to connect that digital behavior to real life.
For example, if the child was reading a National Geographic title like “Cats vs. Dogs,” the Discussion Card might prompt parents to ask questions like “which pet do you like and why?” or it may suggest that the family could go volunteer at a shelter together.

The cards themselves are written by Amazon’s Content Editors and will cover many of the videos, books, educational apps and games inside FreeTime, plus some of the more popular titles often added to FreeTime by parents.
At launch, Amazon says there are thousands of cards available, and more are added daily.
Parents will be able to access the cards in FreeTime’s new Parent Dashboard, which is where they can also view a daily activity report for their child’s device use. This will include what books were read, videos watched, apps or games played, and websites visited. It also shows how many minutes were spent on a given title and how that may have changed over the course of the week.
This information can help to inform parents as to how to configure their child’s FreeTime profile, where they can adjust screen time, time limits and daily education goals. But more generally, it allows parents to track their child’s changing interests over time with different types of content as well as with individual titles.

Initially, it may seem a little odd (or even creepy) that parents need to rely on software to know what their child is interested in, but digital platforms have changed the visibility that parents have traditionally had into their kids’ lives. Instead of dog-eared books on nightstands or board games and toys scattered around the room, kids often turn to e-books, apps and digital games instead. And with their nose buried in their tablet, parents aren’t always aware what kids are up to.
Of course, the idea to offer a parental dashboard like FreeTime is now doing is not something unique to Amazon – many kids’ app makers have included the technology into their own games and apps, and it’s a standard feature in third-party internet control software, too.
However, of the OS makers themselves – Google, Apple and Amazon – it’s interesting that it’s Amazon that has so far shown the most thoughtful approach to managing kids’ digital lives, ranging from its sturdy (and insured) tablet line for kids to its robust parental controls, as well as this kid-safe FreeTime content subscription. (Unfortunately, iOS still has some of the better games and apps, which still makes for a difficult choice; and moms or dads with iPhones often want to buy into the whole Apple ecosystem instead.)
Discussion Cards are included in Amazon FreeTime Unlimited, which is $2.99/month for Prime members per child, or $4.99/month for non-members; family plans for up to 4 kids are also available, starting at $6.99/month. Amazon says the service now reaches over 10 million users.
The Parent Dashboard with Discussion Cards is available starting today.
HackerEarth, an Indian startup that grew from arranging hackathon to offering corporate innovation services, has closed a $4.5 million Series A funding round.
The Bangalore-based company said the funding was led by DHI Group, which operates U.S. IT recruitment portal Dice.com, with participation from Japanese quartet Beenext, Beenos, Digital Garage, BizReach and existing investor Prime Venture Partners.
The company was founded in 2013 and was in the inaugural batch at the GSF India accelerator program. Its initial service was Recruit, a service for vetting technical talent as part of the hiring process or internal company benchmarking. That service claims to have processed over one million applicants, and been used by the likes of Amazon for talent assessment purposes.
But HackerEarth was borne out of a desire to host hackathons and encourage participants and sponsors to get the most out of events. Last year, the company rekindled that focus on hacking when it introduced a second service — Sprint — which is targeted at corporate companies seeking fresh ideas or wanting a shot of innovation.
Sprint can be used to set up public or private hackathons, which are increasingly popular among traditional companies and industries beyond tech. Some of its corporate clients include Honeywell, Pitney Bowes, Wipro, Walmart Labs and Intuit.
“The underlying reason [corporates are interested in hackathons] is to foster innovation, crowdsource interesting ideas or because they have problems and want solutions,” Sachin Gupta, HackerEarth CEO and co-founder, told TechCrunch in an interview.
Gupta explained how one telephony-focused client opted for a hackathon to build a system to detect emotion within voices.
“They could have chosen to do it in-house, but it would have taken a year,” he said. “So they put it out there to crowdsource interesting solutions. There’s a massive opportunity for hackers to create a much bigger opportunity to drive innovation for big companies.”

Gupta (right) with fellow co-founder and HackerEarth CTO Vivek Prakash (left)
Beyond engaging hackers outside of companies, HackerEarth Sprint also encourages employees within different divisions inside companies, or perhaps even clients and other stakeholders, to come together.
Using this money, Gupta said he and his team plans to run small-scale experiments in the U.S., parts of Europe and Southeast Asia, too.
“We’ve had a good run in India so far, and even though we are just touching on the potential of the service, we feel this is a global problem.”
Already, HackerEarth has also hired a reseller to handle its services in Japan, while it is jointly running sales in the U.S. with DHI Group. Gupta said that he’d be open to opportunities in other markets where the right partners are available.

Featured Image: Moment/Getty Images
Over the past several years, GIFs have emerged as a pervasive form of visual communication and self expression across multiple communication channels: They have found their way into our texts, our Tweets, our Messenger chats, and definitely into our Slack channels.
But like most new forms of media and communications, GIFs have thus far struggled to find a business model that matches their ubiquity. GIF-sharing startup Tenor hopes to change that, by partnering with media companies, brands and advertisers to help them build and distribute GIFs users will love — and hopefully make a few bucks along the way.
Tenor (neé Riffsy) makes a popular mobile keyboard that allows users to easily search for and share GIFs in whatever app they might be using at the moment. It also has an SDK to enable third-party developers to add GIF sharing into their own apps. So far that functionality has been adopted  for use in apps and services that include Apple’s iMessage, Facebook Messenger, Facebook comments, WhatsApp and Twitter, among others.
Thanks to its own keyboard and integration with other apps, Tenor has more than 200 million monthly users and processes more than 200 million daily search requests for GIFs. With that scale, the company is looking to monetize an active audience of users searching for apps to best express whatever emotion they might be feeling at the moment.
But how do you do that? Well, if you’re Tenor you try to find media companies and brands that are thirsty for new ways to connect with consumers and who want to associate their goods and services with the emotions linked to the GIFs their customers are sharing with friends.
To aid in that pursuit, the company has hired media exec Jason Krebs as its chief business officer. Krebs was most recently head of sales for Disney’s Maker Studios and has spent the last couple of decades in digital media. All this time he’s been helping brands and advertisers understand the huge audiences they can get in front of with limited ad dollars, all thanks to new forms of media distribution.
After pitching every new type of ad unit under the sun, from digital display to online video to influencer marketing at places likeTremor Video, Conde Nast Interactive and NYTimes.com., Krebs is now tasked with getting marketers to understand GIFs.
But Krebs has some good things going for him. For one, there’s the scale thing we talked about up a few paragraphs above.
He’s also got Tenor’s ‘Insights Engine’ on his side. That tools lets anyone — not just marketers! — to get real-time data on how users are interacting with the company’s GIF search engine and what they’re sharing. 
Theoretically that tool will allow brands to better understand what Tenor users care about at any given time. Using its data, brands will be able to pay Tenor to give priority to GIFs they make in the app’s search results. And hopefully, if those GIFs are compelling enough, consumers will share those branded messages with their friends.
It’s a pretty novel message to marketers. “No one takes a screenshot of a display ad and shares it with their friends,” Tenor CEO David McIntosh told me, in what is perhaps the understatement of the year. But with Tenor, people could be sharing ads just the same.
That said, there’s still a lot for Tenor and its advertisers to figure out. Will marketers be up to the task of learning a whole new way of communicating with a whole new medium of communication? (Yes. The answer is always yes.)
Are GIFs here to stay? Or are they just another passing fad like AOL or Snapchat, things teenagers thought were cool until their parents started using them? (Tough to say.)
How is Tenor planning to charge for access to its huge, highly engaged audience? Will it do so on a per-impression or a per-engagement basis? (TBD.)
And how will brands know that these sponsored GIFs worked? (Also TBD.)
Finally, what makes a good GIF? (It’s kind of like art or porn. You just know it when you see it.)
These are all questions Tenor will face as it tries to get brands on-board, Krebs acknowledges. But that guy could probably sell a ketchup popsicle to a woman wearing white gloves in the middle of July. If anyone can figure it out, he will.
Like other chipmakers, Japan’s Renesas is putting focus on an emerging industry: autonomous cars. The Tokyo-based company announced the R-Car Consortium at a trade fair in the city this week, highlighting its efforts to bring together engineers and researchers from Japan, the U.S., Europe, China and South Korean companies and academic institutions. The goal of the collaboration is to further autonomous driving technology, and it’s already resulted in a fully autonomous demonstration vehicle created by Renesas.
The company is touting its automotive-grade chips as its biggest strength, which will help autonomous vehicles work in all driving conditions, and do so over time. The focus the company has placed on autonomy also extends to cybersecurity concerns, according to Renesas President Bunsei Kure, as reported by Nikkei. To concentrate more fully on the growing opportunity, Renesas has reconfigured its business, allocating resources previously used in areas including video game consoles and smartphones towards autonomous driving tech.
Renesas is pursuing a number of vehicle-related technologies, including a new radar tech to be used in Advanced Driver Assistance Systems (ADAS) with ADI, as well as a new chip for use in forward-facing cameras designed for both autonomous vehicles and ADAS systems. The chip-maker is hardly alone in seeking to stake out its claim in the autonomous driving space: Qualcomm acquired automotive silicon powerhouse NXP, and Intel is in the process of acquiring Israeli sensor and software company Mobileye.

Featured Image: KAZUHIRO NOGI/Getty Images
That Qualtrics IPO many have been expecting is on hold for now. The online market research platform has just raised its third round for $180 million at a whopping $2.5 billion valuation.
The Provo, Utah-based company came from much humbler beginnings, bootstrapping the operation for a decade before finally taking financing from Sequoia and Accel in 2012. It has blown up since then, hitting unicorn valuation status two years later, with $150 million in annual revenue. The company now tells me it’s hitting somewhere north of $250 million in revenue this year.
On the outside, the company looks pretty healthy. Founder Ryan Smith tells me Qualtrics is profitable — something not many tech companies, even some that have gone public recently, can say. Many, including myself, have speculated, based on those financials and a few other indicators, the company may have been making plans to go public in 2017. 
While that could still be in the cards, it’s also not unheard of for a company to raise one final round before diving into the public market. Mulesoft picked up another $128 million ten months prior to filing in March, for example.
And Smith has said he plans on going public. It looks like he’s feverishly working towards that goal. Five months ago the startup hired Microsoft veteran Zig Serafin as its COO and just added Atlassian’s CFO Murray Demo, who helped guide that company through its initial $4.4 billion public offering, to the board. Companies often pull in key leadership just before going public and Qualtrics founder Ryan Smith told TechCrunch in a recent interview he was “getting his house in order” in preparation for an IPO event.
An IPO isn’t an exit. It should be the beginning and we wouldn’t be going out if we didn’t think that more wealth could be created post-IPO.— Ryan Smith, QualtricsCouple that with a market that has been referred to as a “perfect storm” for filing and it might seem a head-scratcher why Qualtrics would take another round, diluting its equity instead of going public.
But an IPO might have been on the table before Smith decided to go for one more round. Insight Venture’s Jeff Lieberman told TechCrunch he’d discussed with Qualtrics “all different options.”
“[Qualtrics] clearly has the right financial profile. It’s really about positioning. [Smith] doesn’t just want to be a public company. He wants to be an excellent, market-dominating company,” Lieberman said.
But all may not be as it seems, according to Kathleen Smith, a principal at Renaissance Capital who’s been analyzing IPOs for the past 20 years. “If you are taking rounds of financing and they’re done at high valuations you may be hesitant to go because you may have to do an IPO down round,” she says. “If you do a round at $2.5 billion, you’re not going to want to raise money publicly below that.”
Silicon Valley, she says, has shifted to higher valuations and the public market has become more valuation sensitive over the last few years. That’s one reason she thinks some of the tech companies have been slower to move forward than expected.
Smith, the IPO analyst, also cautions the company may not be meeting profit expectations, even with revenues in the hundreds of millions. But that’s nonsense to Qualtrics’s Smith, who counters he’s not public yet because he doesn’t have to be. “We raised the money because we can,” he said, pointing out other enterprise unicorns have done the same thing before going public.
“An IPO isn’t an exit. It should be the beginning and we wouldn’t be going out if we didn’t think that more wealth could be created post-IPO,” Smith said.
He also told me he wants to reach revenue in the billions before an IPO event. Side note — it took the company a bootstrapped 10 years to reach $50 million in revenue in 2012 and another five years to get to more than $250 million so we might be waiting a few more years for Qualtrics to hit that goal.
*Qualtrics wanted to clarify Smith meant it is hard to be a billion-dollar revenue company without going public.
But let’s set aside IPO speculation for now and talk about this latest round of funding. Previous investors Sequoia, Accel and Insight Venture Partners came back again for the financing and now makes Qualtrics the biggest investment Accel has ever put money into. 
In addition to putting cash on the balance sheet, the round also allows Smith to provide some liquidity for early employees and hire more in the C-suite, including a chief financial officer in the near future.
Qualtrics has also just launched what it calls the XM Platform, an experience management platform Smith believes will one day be as ubiquitous as Workday or Salesforce software in every office, but for managing internal feedback and helping organizations uncover key business drivers, predict future customer needs, and retain employees.
“Qualtrics is an outlier,” Sequoia Capital partner Bryan Schreier said in a statement. “They have delivered outstanding, accelerating growth at nine-digit revenue numbers all while staying cash flow positive. That is practically unheard of. It’s an incredible sign of confidence in Qualtrics’ continued growth trajectory and the huge market for its new XM Platform that all of its investors have come back to buy as many shares as they could at this new valuation.”
Lincoln is testing a new service for owners of its vehicles that supply a driver on demand. The service is like a very upscale Uber, in which you supply the car, and Lincoln supplies a professional driver – one who is actually a Lincoln employee, not a spot contractor – to ferry you around, return your car to your home, and basically make you feel like a VIP.
The service will launch first in Miami, reports Autoblog, and will let Lincoln owners order up a chauffeur via a smartphone app. The chauffeur will not only be able to drive you around, but will also return your car to your home in case others in the household need to use it, will fill it up if so required, and can even run light errands like picking up some groceries.
Costs, as you might expect, are not cheap: During the pilot program, Lincoln Chauffeur will run around $30 per hour, which is actually not terrible compared to Uber until you remember you have to supply the car as well. On the plus side for Lincoln owners, they’ll get eight hours free of Chauffeur service included in the purchase price.
This is only a limited test at the moment, but Lincoln tells Autoblog that it would like to expand the service to San Diego next, and then additional markets after that. It’s likely a decent challenge to scale, since Lincoln’s actually employing the drivers it’s using.
Lincoln Chauffeur may be a bit of a departure from other mobility service offerings automakers are exploring, which include on-demand vehicle rentals and even white glove delivery to a renter’s door, but it still sounds like an interesting way to add value while driving new revenue sources in the luxury segment.
Amazon has gained a wallet license in India, Medianama reports, as part of a move that will allow the U.S. e-commerce giant to offer a paying experience with less friction in the country.
Currently, Amazon customers must go through two-factor authentication processes for each purchase they make. That’s in accordance with national law. A wallet license could change things by allowing customers to deploy/top-up their wallet for future purchases, but it also gives Amazon an effective channel for cashback offers, faster refunds and other incentives.
Amazon, which has spent $5 billion to develop its India business, used a 2014 investment in QwikCilver to enable gifting and giftcards using the startup’s wallet license. Now, some are speculating that the gifting service — which was rebranded to Amazon Pay in December — is where Amazon’s own license will be deployed.
The license was awarded in March, but news of its existence comes today just days after rival Flipkart, India’s top homegrown e-commerce firm, refueled its tanks with a record $1.4 billion funding round from China’s Tencent, Microsoft and eBay.

Featured Image: Jaap Arriens/NurPhoto/Getty Images
Full Harvest, a San Francisco-based startup, has raised $2 million in seed funding to reduce food waste at the farm level. Founded by Christine Moseley, formerly the head of business development for cold-pressed juice makers Organic Avenue, Full Harvest connects farmers with food makers who want to buy the fruit and veggies that grocers deem too ugly to sell in stores.
While she was helping grow Organic Avenue’s retail business, Moseley wanted to figure out how to secure lower-priced organic produce. It felt strange that her company was buying picture perfect fruits and vegetables knowing they’d soon be cold-pressed into juices. Organic Avenue also paid a high price for that pretty produce, driving the cost of its healthful juices above $10.
But Moseley’s true a-ha moment came when she was visiting an organic, romaine lettuce farm, she said: “I was standing with beautiful green romaine leaves up to my calves. The farmers were throwing out all these crunchy, green leaves because they were looking for just the perfect heads of lettuce for the stores.”
World awareness of food waste has increased in recent years, partly owing to better tools to study the phenomenon. In 2014, the UN Food and Agriculture Organization released startling research that found at least one-third of food produced each year is wasted, and saving just one-quarter of it could feed the world’s starving people. That same report pointed out food wasted on the farm level in industrialized nations was a major culprit. That’s when Moseley started Full Harvest.
Startups and reports like this are making a cultural impact. By now, groceries including Sainsbury’s and Tesco in the UK, and some Whole Foods Markets in the US, are starting to sell a limited amount of twisted carrots, twinned strawberries and lumpy potatoes, for example. But farms still waste 20% to 40% of produce that they grow because it does not fit grocers’ cosmetic standards.
Greater and immediate demand for “ugly” fruit can be unlocked by tapping into other markets, Moseley believes, like companies that make juice, soups and sauces, baby food, frozen foods and even pet foods. Full Harvest is not alone in its mission. Its competition includes regional food nonprofits like Borderlands Food Bank that divert produce before it goes to a landfill, and other tech startups, most directly Boston-based Spoiler Alert. Spoiler Alert helps large food makers sell, or donate, what would be wasted.
Full Harvest’s seed investors included: Wireframe Ventures. BBG Ventures, Early Impact Ventures, Impact Engine, Radicle, Astia and Joanne Wilson. The deal represents a first from Radicle’s new agriculture-focused fund. Radicle’s CEO and Managing Partner Kirk Haney said, “Now, it’s all about market adoption for Full Harvest. As they get more farmers and growers on the sell side, and buyers on the marketplace, they will start to have a bigger impact, and experience the ‘network effect’ we see in other marketplaces whether that’s Alibaba, Amazon Prime or Rent the Runway.”
Moseley said her company will use its funding to add new features and functionality to its platform, to expand their team from 10 to about 20 employees over the next year and to let food industry players know they now have a means to curb food waste at the farm level.

Featured Image: fullharvest.com
A government voter registration website in the UK that crashed in the hours before the deadline for registering to vote ahead of last year’s Brexit referendum could have been targeted by a denial of service attack.
The observation is contained in a report by the Public Administration and Constitutional Affairs Committee (PACAC), entitled Lessons from the EU referendum. 
In a section discussing software problems, the committee describes the website crash as the “most significant example of software failure”, and says it cannot rule out the possibility that the “exceptional surge in demand” to register for votes ahead of the deadline last June was caused by a distributed denial of service (DDoS) attack using botnets.
The report says the crash has “indications of being a DDOS” — based on what the committee dubs as “key indicants” for such an attack: “timing and relative volume rate”.
According to the report there were 515,256 online applications to register to vote recorded on 7 June, with the previous record for the largest number of online applications received in a day being 469,047 on April 20, 2015 (ahead of the May 2015 general election).
The committee says it has no direct evidence of foreign interference in the voter registration process, but goes on to express deep concern about allegations of foreign powers such as Russia and China seeking to influence public opinion elsewhere via psychological cyber attacks in order to subvert democratic processes.
“Lessons in respect of the protection and resilience against possible foreign interference in IT systems that are critical for the functioning of the democratic process must extend beyond the technical,” the committee writes. “The US and UK understanding of ‘cyber’ is predominantly technical and computer-network based. For example, Russia and China use a cognitive approach based on understanding of mass psychology and of how to exploit individuals.
“The implications of this different understanding of cyber-attack, as purely technical or as reaching beyond the digital to influence public opinion, for the interference in elections and referendums are clear. PACAC is deeply concerned about these allegations about foreign interference.”
The committee is therefore recommending that the government takes specific measures aimed at bolstering the cyber security of election and referendum processes in light of the risk of foreign powers seeking to influence outcomes, while also lauding the UK’s prioritizing of cyber security in recent years (back in 2015 former chancellor George Osborne named cyber security a priority, and announced a plan to double spending over the next five years).
“We commend the government for promoting cyber security as a major issue for the UK. We recommend that Cabinet Office, the Electoral Commission, local government, GCHQ and the new government Cyber Security Centre establish permanent machinery for monitoring cyber activity in respect of elections and referendums, for promoting cyber security and resilience from potential attacks, and to put plans and machinery in place to respond to and to contain such attacks if they occur,” the committee writes. “We recommend that the government presents regular annual reports to parliament on these matters.”
The report also indicates that the voter surge ahead of the Brexit vote could have been exacerbated by the spread of ‘fake news’ on Facebook — with the UK’s Electoral Commission flagging up an incorrect rumor spread via Facebook during the Brexit referendum campaign which suggested voters needed to re-register in order to be able to vote. Which was not true.
The report notes that an earlier report by the Commission found that 38 per cent of voter registration applications made during the campaign were duplicates, while an even higher proportion (46 per cent) were found to be duplicates during the period between the original cut off for voter registrations (midnight June 7) and the extended deadline of midnight June 9, after the government allowed more time for registrations owing to “unprecedented demand” to register.
“Jenny Watson [chair of the Electoral Commission], indicated that the situation was not helped by the existence, at one point in the referendum, of a Facebook rumour that incorrectly said that voters had to re-register to make sure they could vote in the referendum,” the committee notes.
The body has previously recommended the government develops an online service enabling UK citizens to check whether they are already correctly registered to vote. The committee says it endorses that recommendation. 
“Duplicate applications pose an unnecessary administrative burden on electoral registration officers and are an equally unnecessary drain on the time of electors themselves,” it writes, adding: “While PACAC is aware of the technical issues that would need to be overcome to deliver such a service, it would be of invaluable assistance in preventing the Register to Vote website from collapsing due to high levels of demand again ahead of future elections and referendums.”
The report also criticizes the government for failing to undertake adequate levels of load testing of the official voter registration website — which it argues could have flagged problems ahead of time and mitigated the surge in demand.
“The government clearly failed to undertake the necessary level of testing and precautions required to mitigate against any such surge in applications. It is worrying that when testing identified issues in system performance, mistaken assumptions meant that these issues were not investigated further and corrected.”
The EU referendum, which was held on June 23 last year, resulted in a public vote to leave the EU by 52 per cent to 48 per cent. The UK government triggered the start of the two-year negotiation process over the terms of Brexit last month.

Featured Image: Martin Robson/Flickr UNDER A CC BY-SA 2.0 LICENSE
Ant Financial, the fintech company affiliated with Chinese e-commerce giant Alibaba, is continuing its global expansion. The firm has taken its first official step into Indonesia today after it announced a joint venture to develop local financial services.
The company has partnered with conglomerate Emtek, Indonesia’s second largest media firm and an investor in -major e-commerce player Bukalapak, to enter Indonesia, which is Southeast Asia’s largest economy and home to a population of 250 million people.
The initial fruits of this tie-in will be payment platform that debuts on BBM, the BlackBerry-owned service. All but forgotten in most of the world, it remains the dominant chat app in Indonesia with an impressive 63 million monthly users. Beyond its popularity, BBM is operated in Indonesia by an Emtek subsidiary, too, so there are plenty of links.
At this point, it isn’t clear what other services it will be available on. Ant Financial and Emtek said somewhat vaguely that its service would be offered for “e-commerce, over-the-top (OTT) and online-to-offline (O2O) services, merchants and platforms in Indonesia.”
Emtek will look to use its strategic assets, which include two national TV networks, publishing platforms, and other online and e-commerce interests, to help the JV and its services gain national attention.
This partnership is part of a series of expansions that Ant Financial has undertaken to expand its business beyond China, where its products such as Alipay and digital banking reach some 450 million users. It invested $200 million into a similar fintech joint venture in Korea, and has comparable alliances in the Philippines and Thailand. Ant Financial is also bidding to buy U.S.-based cross-bordering remittance firm Moneygram, but the company is also considering a bid from rival payment operator Euronet.
Elsewhere, Alibaba is getting serious on e-commerce in Southeast Asia. The firm acquired a majority stake in regional player Lazada last year, it is negotiating the terms for a full acquisition and recently announced plans for a regional cross-bordering logistics hub in Malaysia. E-commerce as a whole in the region is tipped to grow from $5.5 billion in 2015 to $87.78 billion in 2025, according to a report authored by Google and Singapore-based investment firm Temasek last year. Indonesia alone is forecast to account for $46 billion of that 2025 figure.

Featured Image: Adam Cohn/Flickr UNDER A CC BY-ND 2.0 LICENSE (IMAGE HAS BEEN MODIFIED)
Booster‘s tiny purple tankers have been cruising parking lots in Dallas-Fort Worth and the San Francisco area for 18 months now, and it’s ready to let the world in on its not-so-secret service. Companies can contract with Booster to have its employees’ gas tanks filled during the workday.
When you arrive at work and pull into a parking space, if your employer is savvy enough to offer this perk, you just mark your location using the Booster app and leave the gas door open. (You have to trust your prank-prone coworkers to not dump sugar and the like in your tank.) The car stays locked; Booster has no need for anything inside as long as the fuel door is popped before you leave the car. The purple tanker will pull up during a set window of time, your tank will be filled, and Booster will send you a receipt.
The user does pay for the fuel via a stored credit card. Booster charges a “competitive price” for gas, which fluctuates depending on day and location. It offers both regular and premium gasoline right now and hopes to offer diesel in the future.
In the year and a half since the service began operating, it’s pumped 3 million gallons of gasoline into user’s vehicles without incident. According to the company’s press release, this service has reduced the collective carbon footprint of its users by 162 tons, since they don’t have to drive to a gas station just to get more gas. It’s not as emissions-free as an EV, but it’s an improvement.
The service drivers have hazardous materials training and the pumps have Weights and Measures approval, just like station pumps do, so if they pump a gallon, it really is a gallon. The company has raised $12 million in venture capital from Maveron and Madrona Venture Group.

Featured Image: Booster
Darkstore, the startup that enables brands to offer same-day delivery, recently closed a $1.4 million seed round from PivotNorth — the same firm that led the seed round for same-day delivery darling Deliv. As part of the deal, PivotNorth CEO Tim Connors will join Darkstore’s board of directors. Thanks to the new funding, Darkstore will expand from just three markets to seven with the launch of its service in Los Angeles, Chicago and Seattle.
Darkstore has also brought on an additional brand customer, premium headphones maker Master & Dynamic, to offer one-hour delivery in New York City. Darkstore’s other partners include brands like clothing company Wildfang and mattress startup Tuft & Needle.
“With Darkstore and business-to-business, there’s slower customer acquisition but higher retention,” Hnetinka said. “It’s the opposite for something like WunWun (Hnetinka’s last startup that didn’t pan out so well).

Related Articles
WunWun founder Lee Hnetinka launches Darkstore, an on-demand delivery fulfillment platform
Alfred Purchases WunWun Tech, Employees In Fire Sale
Ebay takes on Amazon with guaranteed 3-day delivery on 20 million items

Since launching last May, Darkstore has grown 120% month over month in orders and has facilitated shipments of $1.7 million worth of goods as of December. Hnetinka said $900,000 of that was just from November and December. With the funding, Darkstore’s goal is to hit $110 million worth of products fulfilled.
Darkstore works by exploiting excess capacity in storage facilities, malls and bodegas and enables them to be fulfillment centers with just a smartphone. The idea is that brands without local inventory can store it in a Darkstore and then ship out same-day. Darkstore doesn’t charge brands anything to store inventory, but charges 3% per item that leaves Darkstore, with a minimum of $2 and a maximum of $20.
When it comes to actual deliveries, Darkstore partners with companies like AxleHire and UberRUSH in San Francisco. In other markets, Darkstore uses services like Deliv and other local courier companies the brand wants to use.
Prior to this round of funding, Darkstore received a $120,000 strategic investment from R/GA Ventures, as part of its participation in the R/GA + Westfield Labs Connected Commerce Accelerator.
Indian health tech startup Lybrate has raised $3 million in new funding, according to a filing in the U.S., where it is incorporated.
Lybrate declined to comment on the filing, nor would it provide details of the investors who participated in the round.
Make what you will of that cagey response. The company last raised $10.2 million led by Tiger Global in July 2015, which is some time ago. This new capital takes its tally from investors to date to just short of $15 million.
Founded in 2013, Lybrate aims to connect patients with doctors in India and help raise awareness of basic medical practices in the country.  The startup’s biggest rival is Practo, which offers doctor-finding, health information and also practice management software for the healthcare industry.
Practo has raised around $180 million from investors, including a recent $55 million Series D led by Chinese internet giant Tencent, to finance an expansion that has taken the Indian company into Southeast Asia and Latin America with plans for further international forays in the future. It hasn’t all been plain sailing, however. Practo laid off 150 staff, around 5-10 percent of its headcount, according to reports last week, although the company shrugged the departures off as regular annual churn.
While it didn’t spill the beans on the funding, Lybrate did tell TechCrunch that it now has over 100,000 verified doctors on its platform. The company claimed that its service sees over six million “interactions” per month — it defines that term as searches, health queries or patient-doctor communication — while it said its apps have been download 4.5 million times.
Lybrate’s last major launch came in May 2016 when it introduced online lab testing that allows a patient sample to be collected right from their home, with results later shared online. The service, Lybrate Lab+, is currently active in Delhi, Mumbai and Bangalore. Lybrate’s other services include patient management services for doctors, and remote doctor-patient consultancy.
The company said in a statement that it is seeing “good traction” in India’s second and third tier cities, and it is planning new language options that it believes can connect more rural-based Indians to healthcare options. But, beyond that, Lybrate is keeping quiet on current and future plans.

Featured Image: Pressmaster/Shutterstock
Orbital Systems, a ‘clean-tech’ startup out of Sweden, has raised £15 million in Series B funding. The company’s founder and CEO Mehrdad Mahdjoubi has developed new re-purification technology, in collaboration with NASA, that significantly reduces the amount of water and energy used when taking a shower. The same technology can also be used to save water in other domestic situations.
Dubbed “OAS,” Orbital Systems’ futuristic shower, which can either be bought as a retro-fit option or a brand new installation, works by essentially recycling shower water in a closed loop. The clever bit, however, is the filter tech that ensures bacteria and other ‘bad’ elements found in water coming off your body is removed in each cycle and that if the water is deemed too contaminated, it’s discarded altogether. The result is that the company claims OAS consumes only 5 litres of water compared to up to 150 for a 15 minute shower.
In a call with Mahdjoubi, he explained that during a typical shower, only a few minutes are spent flushing soap suds and shampoo down the drain. The rest of time the water is a lot clearer. The tech he has developed is able to sense the two scenarios and filter or discard accordingly.
However, there is another major advantage to recycling each shower’s water: huge savings in power. That’s because, says the Orbital Systems founder, the temperature of shower water usually only loses a few degrees from shower head to drain. By using digital technology and because the water is recycled in a loop, the OAS only needs to bring it back up to temperature rather than heating the water from scratch.
In a nice piece of sentiment, Mahdjoubi says that resources, such as water and energy, are extremely scarce on a space mission but should be treated as equally precious on earth. His company’s mission goes beyond applying the tech to showers and Mahdjoubi hinted at future products for the home (a washing machine, perhaps?). If showering was the only use-case to be commercially rolled out, Orbital Systems will have failed, he says.
Meanwhile, the startup’s Series B backers include Skype founder Niklas Zennström, who has once again invested in a personal capacity. Also participating are Karl-Johan Persson (CEO of H&M), af Jochnick family (founding family of global makeup brand Oriflame), Stena Ventures, and Nils Idoff.
Qwilr, an Australian startup that helps companies turn boring PDFs and other static sales documents into attractive websites, has grabbed $1.5 million to develop its product and expand its global reach.
Sydney-based Qwilr raised $500,000 from Sydney Seed Fund and Macdoch Ventures in 2015, but its new financing is provided by Germany’s Point Nine, a VC firm that specializes in Saas businesses. The deal represents Point Nine’s first investment in Australia — the firm’s portfolio includes Zendesk (2014 IPO) and Barcelona’s Typeform, which has raised over $20 million.
Qwilr co-founder Mark Tanner said in a statement that the startup would use this funding to bolster its product team with new hires, and also increase its numbers in engineering and marketing. The company has made hires in the U.S., its largest market for customers, with a view to opening a business development office in North America. That’s usually a key move for Australian tech startups wanting to widen their sales.
Beyond prettifying documents and making them easily readable on mobile or desktop, Qwilr also provides analytics to help customers learn more about who is reading their documents, and how they interact with them. The firm offers a limited free usage tier, but more sophisticated paid customer plans start from $39 per month.
The company said its service has been used by more than 40,000 business from 80 countries, home hunting portal Zillow and real estate firm Colliers are two public customers. Qwilr, which integrates with third-party services like Slack and Zapier, claims it has helped bring in over $250 million in quotes for those customers.
Point Nine co-founder and managing partner Christoph Janz told TechCrunch that, while his firm is location-agnostic for deals, he’s impressed with Australia’s potential for startups.
“It’s not a bad location to start, there are great engineers and talent, while the prices and competition for talent and expense level is not as crazy as, for example, San Francisco’s Bay Area,” he said.
Janz said Point Nine isn’t specifically making Australia a focus, but he expects that deal opportunities will appear on its radar now that it has a local portfolio company and connections.
“We are just open to doing Saas deals anywhere in the world where we find the best startups,” he added.
First Circle, a fintech startup enabling SME lending in the Philippines, has raised $1.3 million.
The capital was provided by Accion Venture Lab, which is attached to finance-focused non-profit Accion, and Deep Blue Ventures. First Circle raised $1.2 million last year, and it counts 500 Startups, IMJ, and Key Capital among its backers.
SME lending is a given in most Western countries, but the challenges are more acute in emerging markets where there’s a lack of data on customers and banks tend to prioritize larger, more established clientele where the risk is perceived to be lower.
Yet, SMEs represent a hugely important part of growing economies. In the Philippines, a Southeast Asia-based country with a population of nearly 100 million, SMEs represent 99 percent of all registered companies yet contribute to just 40 percent of economic output. Financing is a major issue, with SMEs accounting for less than 20 percent of all bank loans in the country.
That’s where First Circle, which was founded in 2015, is aiming to make a difference by giving less established companies the footing to grow their businesses at a more rapid rate.
“Lack of access to capital is a big problem that needs to be fixed. If it isn’t, millions of hardworking entrepreneurs and their businesses will not be given the chance to reach their potential,” First Circle co-founder and CEO Patrick Lynch said in a statement.
First Circle also made the processes more SME friendly, reducing the wait time, which can traditionally be as much as a month, to days and simplifying the paper trail involved.
To date it has paid out over $5 million in loans. Lynch told TechCrunch in an interview that the company typically provides $10,000 with over a payback duration of three months. Loans are underwritten by a credit pool supplied by a mix of asset managers and family offices, who take more than half of all earnings from the loan book, Lynch said.
“Often clients we deal with haven’t had access to formal credit,” he explained. “We’re not in the business of over-extending our clients’ loans, we look at what they can do now, such as customer numbers and transaction. Alternative information can come together to allow us to underwrite with a degree of certainty without traditional metrics.”
That typically means a successful loan applicant would need to show the potential to repay the loan. Since e-commerce is First Circle’s most common domain — it has an affiliation with Alibaba-owned Lazada, one of the services forecast to drive a boom in online spending in Southeast Asia — that might mean having an order of 3/4X the loan value coming in. That also helps to limit defaulting, with a usual worst case scenario meaning a client needs a little more time for repayment.
Lynch, who is Irish but moved to Asia to work with financial marketplace CompareAsia Group, said the company remains focused on the Philippines for now, but it is evaluating potential expansion options such as Indonesia or Thailand. He said he doesn’t expect to move into new markets before the end of the year, which is a rough timeline for when First Capital is planning a Series A round.
“We look at markets where there are low levels of SME financing, increasing e-commerce penetration, and sub-optimal availability of capital,” he said.
