
The Nintendo Switch has invigorated the gaming community, so it goes without saying that the Nintendo Digital Showcase today is one of the more hotly anticipated events of E3 2017.
Unlike some of the other press conferences at the event, Nintendo is holding a purely digital experience, which means we’ll be watching this stream at the exact same time as everyone else.
We expect to see a huge focus on Mario Odyssey, and the company may introduce a Splatoon 2. But we’re most excited to learn which titles are coming to the Switch next.
You can watch the live stream below, or on Twitch.
 
		
Watch live video from Twitch on http://www.twitch.tv
Eero is launching a new version of its flagship Eero wireless base station. The second-gen Eero is the same size and shape of its predecessor, but the company has drastically upgraded the underlying hardware. It’s also launching Beacon, which is designed to plug directly into wall sockets in places like kitchens, hallways and stairwells, where it’s inconvenient to have a corded product Read More
It’s now official. After Yahoo shareholder approval last week, Verizon today announced that it has finally closed its acquisition of Yahoo, which it plans to combine with its AOL assets into a subsidiary called Oath, covering some 50 media brands (including TechCrunch) and 1 billion people globally. It will be led by Tim Armstrong, who was the CEO of AOL before this.
As expected, Marissa Mayer, who had been the CEO of Yahoo and recently received a $23 million ‘golden parachute’ for her work there, has resigned.
“Given the inherent changes to Marissa Mayer’s role with Yahoo resulting from the closing of the transaction, Mayer has chosen to resign from Yahoo. Verizon wishes Mayer well in her future endeavors,” Verizon said in a statement. You can find Marissa in her own words here on Tumblr. TLDR: It’s a long list of the achievements made with her at the helm these last five years, and — alas — you will only read of the struggles that Yahoo went through between the lines.
The deal, nevertheless, brings to a close the independent life of one of the oldest and most iconic internet brands, arguably the one that led and set the pace for search — the cornerstone of doing business on the spaghetti-like internet — at least until Google came along and surpassed Yahoo many times over, and led the company into a number of disastrous and costly attempts to redefine itself, ultimately culminating in the sale we have here today.
The sale of Yahoo is another sign of the massive consolidation that continues to happen in the world of online media and content, as large companies look to bring together multiple audiences for economies of scale to build out stronger advertising businesses in competition with the likes of Google and Facebook.
“The close of this transaction represents a critical step in growing the global scale needed for our digital media company,” said Marni Walden, Verizon president of Media and Telematics (which will include Oath), in a statement. “The combined set of assets across Verizon and Oath, from VR to AI, 5G to IoT, from content partnerships to originals, will create exciting new ways to captivate audiences across the globe.”
Carriers have been an especially interesting player in this regard, as they are looking to offset declines in their legacy businesses. But don’t cry for Verizon just yet: the company employs 161,000 people and made $126 billion in revenues in 2016, with 113.9 million retail connections in its mobile business.
As we wrote last week, there will be cuts of around 15 percent of all staff associated with the acquisition of Yahoo and merger with AOL, around areas like operations and sales and marketing. Today, no word about that in the official announcement although we are asking about this.
Also not specified is who else is departing along with Mayer. As we reported last week, Adam Cahan, who had been an SVP at Yahoo very close to Mayer, was also on his way out, as was Bob Lord, the CISO who was at the head of Yahoo’s security operations when its massive breaches were revealed (although he was not there not at the time that they were taking place). That breach resulted in Verizon knocking off several hundred million dollars from its original offer price for the company.
A spokesperson for AOL/Oath declined to comment on specific departures, and provided the following statement about the other redundancies, in line with previous statements:
“Oath’s strategy is to lead the global brand space.  With access to over 1B consumers upon close, we will be positioned to drive one of the most important platforms in the consumer brand space.  Consistent with what we have said since the deal was announced, we will be aligning our global organization to the strategy.”
In the meantime, unsurprisingly, David Filo, Eddy Hartenstein, Richard Hill, Marissa Mayer, Jane Shaw, Jeffrey Smith and Maynard Webb Jr. have already resigned from Yahoo’s board.
“We’re building the future of brands using powerful technology, trusted content and differentiated data. We have dominating consumer brands in news, sports, finance, tech, and entertainment and lifestyle coupled with our market leading advertising technology platforms,” Armstrong said in a statement. “Now that the deal is closed, we are excited to set our focus on being the best company for consumer media, and the best partner to our advertising, content and publisher partners.”
This will include not just media brands but ad tech underpinnning how to leverage these audiences. In this case, the focus in on ONE by AOL and its BrightRoll technology covering mobile, video, search, native and programmatic ads.
An internal memo from Armstrong is below.



Team,
Today is a historic day. We are bringing together some of the most important and scaled brands and products that have revolutionized the way the world works. Our combined services reach over a billion people each month. Building brands people love is our mission and that gives us a billion people to keep building for everyday.
Over the coming years, another 3 billion people will join the revolution with an overwhelming majority being mobile only consumers. With our talent, technology, and brand platforms coupled with Verizon’s strategic mobile position, we will occupy one of the best strategic positions in the global marketplace. The opportunity in front of us is not about the opinions from the pundits and it is not about the competition, it is about our ability to maniacally focus on delivering magical services to mobile enabled consumers.
The companies and platforms in our portfolio have very strong track records of building brands that consumers love. From Yahoo to TechCrunch to AOL to Yahoo Mail to HuffPost to Tumblr to Yahoo Finance to Flurry, consumers and customers across the globe choose our brands everyday to deliver their digital world experiences. Our job is to deliver three simple objectives:


Build brands consumers love (also our mission – consumers come first in our objectives)


Build platforms customers love


Build a company talent loves


Many people across the combined companies have done a tremendous amount of work over the past year. The talent level at the combined companies has been on display in every area of work that has been accomplished in order to get to today. The team from Yahoo, led by Marissa, deserves a special thank you. Yahoo is an incredible brand and talent-based company and we have been impressed with the people, the products, and the spirit.
We want to bring everyone together today to talk about our future together. We are starting a journey together and that journey will be exciting and it will be challenging. Accomplishing our objectives and goals will require adjustments to the company and it will require us to provide clarity on the strategy and the integration objectives. We will start discussing that today.
Let’s make it happen – TA

More to come.
Advertisement		



Facebook may be the world’s most powerful app, but it’s still just an app on Apple’s operating system.
Facebook’s grand vision for augmented reality was that it would make it easy for any developer to build and distribute an AR experience — as long as it lived inside Facebook’s app. But Apple has once again used its control of the mobile operating system to build a wider platform than Facebook can, this time with AR that lives inside developers’ own apps.
This already played out with mobile apps.
On the open web of desktops, Facebook built a massively powerful game platform that spawned huge businesses like Zynga. On mobile, it couldn’t do the same. Apple forbid developers from building app stores inside their apps. Facebook tried to build its own HTML5 game platform inside its native app anyway.
Here come the augmented reality platform wars
Yet since HTML5 web games couldn’t draw on the phone’s computing power the same way as a native app, Facebook’s “Project Spartan” flopped while the Apple App Store thrived. Facebook promised virality to these app developers, but since their experiences would be buried layers deep inside the phone’s homescreen, then the distracting Facebook app, and then inside its HTML5 app platform alongside competitors, they never flocked aboard.
Now Facebook is in danger of that same scenario playing out with augmented reality.

Facebook knows that sleek, capable, affordable AR glasses are still years away. Instead, it sees the phone camera as today’s AR device that already has massive scale. So at this year’s F8 in April, it launched the Facebook Camera Effects platform. Developers can use its AR Studio program to develop interactive AR experiences that overlay make-believe animation atop the real world, triggered by locations, objects, data streams, and more.
Facebook has a number of advantages with this strategy. Its app is already massively popular, with 1.9 billion monthly users. It has 10 years of history working with developers. And since everything in AR happens “on camera”, it will be easy for users to share the content with friends via Facebook, helping the developers to grow.
Facebook showed off use cases for its AR camera platform including overlaid info like maps, virtual objects like an interactive chess board, and augmented objects like turning your house into a castle
But as desktop games, brand Pages, and news publishers have learned, depending entirely on Facebook’s walled garden can be risky. If Facebook changes directions, seeks to shield its users from noise, or wants to assume more power, there’s little these outsiders can do to control the terms of the deal. Suddenly they can see their viral reach decimated, because since Facebook hosts all these developers, poor experiences reflect on it directly so it’s quick to prioritize long-term user satisfaction over everyone else’s businesses.

That paves the way for Apple’s approach to augmented reality. ARKit, launched last week at WWDC, lets developers easily take advantage of the iPhone’s camera and Visual Inertial Odometry to overlay AR content on the real world within their own apps. Developers control their own destiny, deciding what to do and how to promote their AR experiences.

They won’t have to hope to be featured by Facebook or abide by its rules. And their native iOS AR apps will be available to many more people than those built on Google’s Tango AR platform that only runs on a small subset of Android phones equipped with special hardware.
Since every iOS app can easily plug in AR features, Facebook’s camera platform loses some of its singular charm. If Apple had waited one more year to launch ARKit, or even just until the new iPhone and iOS 11 launch in September, it could have been stuck playing catch-up to Facebook’s AR dev community. Instead it seized the opportunity by launching its platform just six weeks after Facebook.

While Facebook has only previewed experiences from a limited range of big name partners like Nike, EA games, and NASA since it curates what’s available, tons of Apple ARKit developers are already showing off the flexibility of baking AR into the mobile operating system, from creating AR characters like BB-8 from Star Wars, to visualizing a running route on AR mountains, to drawing on surfaces, and creating all manners of weird art.


My bike ride in AR. (Unity + ARKit + Mapbox + Strava) pic.twitter.com/g2uVwVlM3h
— Adam Debreczeni (@heyadam) June 7, 2017



Essentially, Apple has made core augmented reality technology table stakes rather than a unique draw. Facebook will have to trade on its power to feature AR experiences in front of its billions of users on both iOS and Android, the potential to go viral through its social network, and its low friction since potential AR experience users don’t have to install a new app.
Facebook will of course get to lean on Apple’s technology too. But if developers side with Apple and the idea of putting AR in their own apps, it could deprive Facebook of AR experiences it’s relying on to help it outdo Snapchat.
The physical world is far too vast for any one company to fill it with AR by itself. Yet secretive Snapchat has no background in working with developers. If Apple steals the longtail of the dev crowd, Facebook may have to rely on a few key partners and its own sagging ingenuity to dream up AR fun that attracts teens.
Here come the AR platform wars.


Astro is today rolling out a new bot that merges Slack and email. The bot will allow you to receive your most critical emails within Slack, write and respond to emails using Slack usernames, as well as share important emails – and their attachments – into Slack private messages or channels, among other things.
The bot is an expansion on Astro’s previously launched email platform that leverages A.I. to help users make better sense of their inbox, triage their emails, and make sure that they don’t miss their priority messages.
In addition to the Slack integration, Astro is also today launching an Alexa Skill for checking in on your important emails and responding by voice.

While it may seem as though there’s never an end to the number of startups trying to solve our problems with email, that’s because email continues to be an ongoing problem for many users.
Astro CEO Andy Pflaum, who sold his prior productivity-focused company Zimbra to Yahoo, brought many of the founding team members at Zimbra over to his new company.
“We felt that workplace communication is an area that still needs a lot of improvement,” explains Pflaum. “Even with the rise of Slack in particular and real-time group chat in general…we felt that there were still problems, particularly in email,” he says.
The approach the team wanted to take was applying modern-day A.I. technology to help address the remaining issues with email.
The company already has email apps that work across the desktop and mobile which include a helpful bot – “Astrobot” – that can uncover insights, take actions on your email, and surface other “can’t miss” items from your inbox.
For example, the bot knows when there’s an email from someone important who’s still awaiting your response to a question they asked; it can ask you if you’d like it to unsubscribe you from a newsletter you never open; and it can help you with other items not directly related to emails – like helping you figure out who you know at a given company, or reminding you of tasks.



Astro - macOS - Move to Folder




Astro - macOS - Snooze




Astro - macOS - Astrobot




Astro - macOS - Send Later _ Follow Up Reminder




Astro - macOS - Unsubscribe




Astro - macOS - Astrobot - Transparent




Astro - macOS - Move to Folder - Transparent




Astro - macOS - Astrobot Unsubscribe - Transparent




Astro - macOS - Compose and Send Later - Transparent




Astro - macOS - Snooze - Transparent




Astro - macOS - Astrobot - Fun




Astro - iOS - Snooze




Astro - iOS - Priority Inbox




Astro - iOS - Inbox Zap




Astro - iOS - Astrobot




 View Slideshow


Previous
Next
Exit


Above: Astro’s email apps
Astro’s email apps also have a bevy of other advanced features like snoozing emails, tracking opens, reminding you to follow up with people who haven’t replied, as well as inbox cleanup features that can help you declutter, and more.
With the new Slack integration, the idea is to bring some of Astro’s smarts over to another platform where a lot of workplace communication has now shifted.

You don’t have use Astro’s email apps to use its Slack bot, though of course the company hopes this will entice you to try its full platform.
After adding the bot to Slack, you can configure it to alert you “Priority” emails – those that Astro determines you want to read based on a number of signals, like whether you tend to open emails from this sender, reply, or and more. That way, even if you spend the majority of your day communicating with coworkers in Slack, you won’t miss your most important emails.
From Slack, you can also reply, archive, delete, snooze or star your emails, as well as send out quick emails or set reminders using the “/email” command. You can also clean up your inbox with the “/zap” command so the next time you open your inbox, all your older messages have been archived.
Plus, Astrobot’s insights will also alert you to unanswered questions and other items you shouldn’t miss, as well as those messages from contacts you’ve designed as a “VIP.”



Previous
Next
Exit


Above: Astro in Slack
Because email often has sensitive information, the Slack bot is designed to only work within either a Direct Message or private channel in Slack.
Meanwhile, you can now share emails and files back to Slack from Astro’s mail clients, if you choose to use them. Here, you can add a note about the email being shared so your team knows why you’re posting it, as well as post the email’s attachments.
The advantage of using Astro’s full platform is that, with the Slack integration, you’re now able to search across both Slack and email at the same time.

Above: universal search across email and Slack
“We’re providing what we think are simple but deep and also very useful ways for a user to manage their email without having to leave Slack,” says Pflaum.
The company has also today launched its bot on Alexa, which lets you catch up, manage, and reply to emails by voice.
This is not as immediately useful as the Slack integration, except for those who have an Alexa device in their home, and for some reason need to check on their emails hands-free for a time. (Perhaps it could be handy when waiting on a critical reply – instead of refreshing your inbox obsessively, you could just go ahead and cook dinner and ask Alexa instead to check your messages for you.)
However, as Alexa becomes more portable – built into new smartphones, for example, or cars – Astro’s Alexa Skill could be a means of staying on top of email while on the go.
Both the Slack and Alexa bots are live today, and available for free to all users. Astro plans to generate revenue through premium tiers for teams and enterprise arriving later this year, and the next.
The startup, based in Palo Alto, previously raised $8 million in Series A funding from Redpoint,  Aspect Ventures, Harrison Metal and Upside Partnership.
Submittable, a startup used by more than 9,000 companies to manage submissions, has raised $5 million in Series A funding.
Missoula, Montana-based Submittable was founded in 2010 with an initial focus on literary magazines that wanted help keeping track of manuscript submissions. As co-founder and CEO Michael FitzGerald put it, “We started with the poorest customers you could possibly imagine — poetry magazines.”
Since then, the startup has expanded to work with a variety of organizations on managing digital content, including résumés, applications and contest entries, with customers including TEDx, The New Yorker and Stanford University.
The next step is building out what FitzGerald calls an “opportunities marketplace.” In its current form, that means Submittable can algorithmically generate recommendations for writers and filmmakers about where they should submit their work.
“Our core belief has always been that the muscle that you use … to create your story is a totally different muscle to getting it published, promoting yourself, doing all that undignified work,” FitzGerald said. “Submittable’s goal is make it effortless for the writer, for the creator to find opportunity.”
 That approach also opens up new opportunities for revenue. FitzGerald said Submittable’s business model will always revolve around selling submission management software to companies, but it could bring in additional revenue by allowing those businesses to promote their calls for submissions through advertising, and by creating a premium version for writers.
The Series A comes from True Ventures, and it represents the firm’s first investment in Montana. FitzGerald acknowledged that starting a company outside the country’s main startup hubs has scared off some potential investors, but he said he’s hoping this investment is “breaking the ice a bit.” He also said Submittable didn’t have to raise the funding — it was already profitable, with more than 35 employees.
“We’re really excited to invest in Submittable because of its great potential as a new kind of SaaS marketplace where both businesses and users benefit across many different verticals,” said True’s Puneet Agarwal in the funding release.

 Seth Sawyers/Flickr UNDER A CC BY 2.0 LICENSE
The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration has bestowed its highest ever SUV safety rating to Tesla’s Model X. The Model X earned a 5-star rating in every category and sub-category that NHTSA tests, using the government body’s own independent testing process. This also puts the Model X second only to the Model S in terms of overall injury probability to passengers per NHTSA’s ranking system.
This safety performance owes a lot to the unique design of Tesla’s vehicle, due to its electric powertrain. The bottom mounted battery pack, which is spread out across the base of the vehicle, puts the Model X’s center of gravity far lower down and distributed when compared to traditional fuel injection engine SUVs. That lower center of gravity helps immensely in preventing rollovers, which is typically a big weak spot for SUVs, which sit higher up on the road.
NHTSA’s rating system predicts around a 93 percent chance of a passenger in the Model X walking away from serious crashes, to put the high ratings in more relatable terms. That’s a high honor for Tesla, especially in tandem with the Model S reputation (despite some back-pedalling on that count at Consumer Reports related to the auto-braking feature on gen 2 hardware cars, which are getting that via update now).
This means the Model 3 will have big shoes to fill, but if Tesla can pull off a NHTSA trifecta with that vehicle, which is set to start deliveries next month, it should really help secure Tesla’s overall safety reputation as a core competitive value.

 Darrell Etherington
Atlassian today announced the launch of Atlassian Stack, a new subscription service that bundles virtually all of the company’s self-hosted developer tools into a single offering. Starting at $186,875 per year for 1,000 licenses, this new bundle is meant to make the procurement process for enterprises easier and cheaper (despite what looks like an eye watering price at first). Instead of having to subscribe to individual products, enterprises can opt for the Atlassian Stack and get access to a full set of developer tools.
Here is a full list of what’s included in the Stack:


Data Center versions: JIRA Software, Bitbucket, JIRA Service Desk, Confluence

Server versions: JIRA Core, HipChat, Bamboo, FishEye, Crucible, Crowd

Add-ons: Portfolio for JIRA, Capture for JIRA, Questions for Confluence, Team Calendars for Confluence
Premier Support 

That’s a pretty complete list of what you’d need to run a developer team on Atlassian, though you’ll notice that the emphasis here is on tools that run behind the firewall. You don’t get access to the hosted versions of Atlassian’s tool with this bundle, but chances are that most of the companies that would be interested in this kind of bundle handle their own deployments anyway.
At 1,000 licenses, the price per user comes out to $15,57 per month. For really large enterprises with more than 10,000 users on the platform, Atlassian drops the price to $6.74 per user per month.
In addition to the Atlassian Stack, the company also today launched its DevOps Marketplace. This new store offers Atlassian’s users access to more than 200 add-ons and integrations. Current partners include the likes of AppDynamics, Splunk and Sauce Labs. Atlassian already runs a marketplace, of course, but this new offering focuses specifically on devops tools.

 William West/Getty Images
Europe’s data protection chiefs have fired a warning shot across the bows of the executive body of the Union ahead of the first annual review of the EU-US Privacy Shield.
The data transfer framework, which was agreed in February 2016 and opened for sign-ups last August, is now used by more than 2,000 companies to transfer the personal data of EU citizens to the US for processing without risk of breaching fundamental European privacy rights.
The core idea is a framework that bridges two very different legal regimes.
Privacy Shield replaces the prior Safe Harbor arrangement, which stood for fifteen years before being invalidated by Europe’s top court after a legal challenge that was largely focused on US government mass surveillance practices as a breach of EU privacy rights.
The replacement, which the Commission argues offer more robust privacy guarantees, has always had its critics who claim it contains the same fundamental flaws as its predecessor arrangement, not least on account of ongoing bulk data collection practices in the US. It is already facing legal challenges.
It also arguably looks especially precarious placed in Trump’s America, given the president’s apparent disregard for the rights of non-Americans. And the implications of the new guard in the White House are clearly front of mind for the EU’s Article 29 Working Party going ahead of the first annual review; aka the body made up of representatives from Member States’ data protection agencies.
The group set out a series of concerns about Privacy Shield as far back as April 2016. They’re now gearing up for the annual review, due to take place in the US in September, and today say they’ve sent the EC a letter setting out their views and recommendations, and reserving the right to publish their own report “subject to the outcome of the Joint Review and the report of the Commission”.
So, in other words, it’s a warning shot to the Commission not to try to make the review a pantomime, tick-box exercise.
The WP29 describes the forthcoming review as “a fact-finding mission in order to collect the relevant information and necessary evidence to assess the robustness of the Privacy Shield”.
Its concerns span both commercial elements and law enforcement/national security considerations pertaining to the framework — including raising recent developments in US law that might impact privacy (for example, in January president Trump caused alarm in Europe with an Executive Order that strips privacy rights from non-US citizens); and the fact that a key ombudsperson role, created as part of the data transfer framework, has yet to be appointed.
The US is also currently engaged in debate over reforming Section 702 of the FISA — which has implications for how the data of non-US citizens can be treated by US national security agencies.
Discussing its concerns, the WP29 writes today:

… for the commercial part, the WP29 has questions concerning, among others, the existence of legal guarantees regarding automated decision making or the existence of any guidance made available by the DOC regarding the application of the Privacy Shield principles to organisations acting as agents/processors. Clarifications that will be sought also include the definition of human resources data.
Regarding the law enforcement and national security part, the WP 29 has questions relating in particular to the latest developments of US law and jurisprudence in the field of privacy. The WP29 also seeks, inter alia, precise evidence to show that bulk collection, when it exists, is “as tailored as feasible”, limited and proportionate. In addition, the WP29 stresses the need to obtain information concerning the nomination of the four missing members of the PCLOB [Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board] as well as on the appointment of the Ombudsperson and the procedures governing the Ombudsperson mechanism, as they are key elements of the oversight architecture of the Privacy Shield.

The group also notes that more questions about the robustness and operation of the arrangement may well arise during the review process — which it says should last at least two to three days in order to allow for “sufficient time to conduct an assessment”.
It also says it has suggested a list of US authorities that should be part of the Joint Review, and will be sending eight of its own personnel to be part of the review team — from “commissioners to experts at staff level”.
“The first joint annual review will be… a key moment for the WP 29 to assess the robustness and effectiveness of the Privacy Shield mechanism,” it adds.
At the time of writing the EC had not responded to a request for comment.
Update: In an emailed statement Commission spokesman told us: “As part of the preparations we are now consulting the companies who subscribed to it, privacy NGOs, as well as our American counterparts to prepare the agenda,” adding: “Consulting with our EU data protection authorities is also part of this process.”
Responding specifically to the WP29’s statement today, the spokesman added: “We will take this input into account in our preparations of the review. It is already foreseen by the Commission’s adequacy decision (Privacy Shield decision) that the data protection authorities will participate in the review.”
We understand that areas the Commission is intending to cover as part of the review include: looking at how US companies comply with their data protection obligations and the mechanisms they have put in place to ensure a speedy handling of complaints; how the Department of Commerce and the FTC certify companies, monitor compliance and cooperate with EU Data Protection Authorities in the enforcement; the operation of the rules regarding access by public authorities, and rules and procedures to ensure the Ombudsperson mechanism functions well; and also issues identified already in the EC adequacy decision, such as dialogue on automated decision-making, as well as any developments in U.S. law that might raise questions concerning the EU-U.S. Privacy Shield.

 Sebastien Wiertz/Flickr UNDER A CC BY 2.0 LICENSE
Wireless networking startup Eero was founded on the premise of providing “WiFi that works.” With easy setup and the ability to boost your signal by just adding more WiFi stations, Eero introduced a new category of wireless mesh networking products to market.
But since there are now multiple WiFi mesh competitors out there, Eero can’t afford to be left behind. With that in mind, the company is announcing two new hardware products for consumers and additional security features users can subscribe to.
The Next-Gen Eero
Today the company is launching a new version of its flagship Eero wireless base station. The second-gen Eero is the same size and shape of its predecessor, but the company has drastically upgraded the underlying hardware. The second-gen router features triband WiFi — meaning it can broadcast on three wireless bands simultaneously — and is twice as powerful as the original Eero.



While adding stronger WiFi connectivity, the company is looking to future-proof its products by introducing some new emerging technologies. For instance, the new Eero hardware is powered by USB-C to match new smartphones and computers hitting the market… and it will also include Thread wireless connectivity to reach a whole new generation of low-power “Internet of things” devices that are finding their way into consumers’ homes.
Eero Beacon
Along with the new second-gen router, the company is adding a second hardware product called the Eero Beacon. The Beacon is designed to plug directly into wall sockets in places like kitchens, hallways and stairwells, where it’s inconvenient to have a corded product.

While the Beacon is about half the size of the original Eero, it is more powerful that the first-generation product. But, just like all other Eero devices, the Beacon is backward compatible and can be used to easily extend the range of a home’s WiFi system without a lot of hassle and setup. It just needs to be plugged in and added via the Eero app.
Enhanced Security
When the Eero team first began working on solving this problem three years ago, it started with the premise that tech in general has the ability to make things easier and more intuitive to use. However, as more connected devices entered the home, the ability to manage all of them became more complicated and more frustrating.
Since we’re moving to a world where seemingly every new device in the home will be connected to the Internet, and every piece of content we consume will soon be delivered over the Internet, Eero CEO Nick Weaver argues that consumers will need a home operating system to help “manage” all of those devices and ensure content is delivered flawlessly.
The first step toward providing software-enabled operating layer comes with the introduction of enhanced network security to its customers. With the introduction of Eero Plus, the company will block botnets from accessing the network and also protect users from phishing attacks, among other threats.
In addition to advanced security protection, Eero is giving users more granular control over who can access what content on the Internet. With enhanced parental controls available in Plus, adults can filter out adult, illegal or violent content, and could enable SafeSearch for specific profiles on the network.
Eero Plus will provide more value for customers looking for added protection or more advanced control over their networks, but it also provides a new revenue stream for the company. It also lays the foundation for Eero to introduce more services-oriented offerings in the future. Eero Plus will be offered as a monthly subscription of $9.99 or yearly subscription of $99.
Pricing & Availability
With the new hardware comes new pricing for Eero’s WiFi products, and also new retail locations where customers can buy them. In addition to online channels like Eero.com and Amazon, the products will be available on sale in Best Buy, Walmart and Target retail locations in the coming weeks. Below is a rundown of configurations that will be for sale:

Home WiFi System (1 Eero + 1 Eero Beacon): $299
Home WiFi System (1 Eero + 2 Eero Beacons): $399
Pro WiFi System (3 Eeros): $499
Local Guides in Google Maps, Google’s gamified program for getting its users to update data in Google Maps and upload photos of local venues, is getting a bit of an overhaul today. Most importantly, Google is changing how it rewards points and how its leveling system works.
Until today, Local Guides users we able to scale the ladder up to the fifth level. Once you hit 500 points, there really wasn’t much motivation to continue given that you had already made it to the top. With this update, Google is adding five levels that take quite a few more points to reach. To make it to Level 10, you need to get 100,000 points. Even getting to Level 7 takes 5,000 points. That’s a lot of photos of Kmarts.
Google is also changing the points system. Some information that has a higher impact for Google Maps users like being the first to add a new place to the map or writing reviews, will now earn you more points. As the company also announced today, guides who get to level four will now get three months of free access to Google Play Music and 75 percent off rentals in the Google Play Movie store.
In a very brief interview with Bloomberg, Apple CEO Tim Cook confirmed that the company has been working on an Apple car. This isn’t the first time Apple talked about the company’s ongoing work in the car industry.
Cook described Apple’s car project as the combination of three different factors — self-driving cars, electric vehicles and ride-sharing. Those three things together make the car industry interesting again.
More interestingly, Cook said that Apple is more focused on self-driving technology and not necessarily the car itself. “We’re focusing on… what we talked about we’re focusing on publicly is… We’re focusing on autonomous systems,” he said.
So it looks like Project Titan is still very much a work in progress as Apple needs to figure out the technology before thinking about its marketing strategy.
This part of the interview could also confirm an earlier report that the company has been focusing on building the brain of the device instead of manufacturing fully fledged cars.
“Clearly, one purpose of autonomous systems is self-driving cars — there are others. And we sort of see it as the mother all AI projects,” Cook told Bloomberg. “It’s probably one of the most difficult AI projects to work on. So autonomy is something that is incredibly exciting for us. But we’ll see where it takes us — we’re not really saying from a product point of view what we’ll do. It’s a core technology that we view as very important.”
More recently, Apple got an autonomous vehicle test permit so that the company can start testing self-driving cars on the roads of California. So far, Apple has been using a Lexus SUV with its own sensors and devices.

 BERND THISSEN/AFP/Getty Images
Yumi, the Los Angeles-based baby food delivery service co-created by former TechCrunch and Wall Street Journal reporter Evelyn Rusli and Angela Sutherland is finally open for business, with $4.1 million in seed investment from VC firms Brand Foundry, August Capital and NEA, as well as several angels, including early Dropbox investor Ali Partovi, WordPress’ Matt Mullenweg, and Philip Krim, co-founder of mattress company Casper.
There are plenty of options in the baby food market for parents to choose from, but Sutherland, a new mom herself, wanted a healthier option for her little one without the hassle and clean up that comes with whipping up something in the food processor. She came up with Yumi to deliver perfectly pureed bites without all the sugar and preservatives found on the grocery store shelf.
Like grownup meal delivery services, parents simply select a plan on the Yumi website, a chef prepares the food in the Yumi kitchen and then the meals arrive in an insulated container, along with ice packs to keep it fresh. Prices start at $50 per week for six meals and go from there (with discounts for subscription plans).
Yumi will deliver throughout California and doesn’t have much in the way of meal delivery competition right now in the state but could possibly soon be neck-and-neck with the New York-based Little Spoon, as that startup has told me it plans to roll out nationwide. Both companies do face some uncertainty, as others have tried and failed at this model before. Still, Rusli told me in an earlier conversation she is confident Yumi has tested the market and has what it takes to succeed.
And sure, it’s easier for parents to pick up an organic offering at their nearest Whole Foods, if health is the focus, but those jars of food may come with all sorts of preservatives you may not want your baby ingesting. Plus, with offerings like bell pepper soup and rose water overnight oats, Yumi’s food sounds scrumptious, even for adults.
A panel at the MovinOn conference in Montreal, Quebec, tackled the questions that always get tackled: What’s the state of autonomous cars and when will they be fully ready to take over the world? Or, at least, all driving tasks?
Dan Galves, a senior vice president at Mobileye, put it very plainly: the vehicles we have on the roads now are “small fleets of infants” in terms of what they’ve accomplished and what they have yet to learn. Merging in particular is an example of something autonomous cars are really bad at; they can’t discern aggressive drivers from conservative drivers and make choices about when to move into the roundabout like humans can, Galves pointed out.
He expects that the detailed mapping necessary for fully autonomous driving will be ready by 2020 or 2021, which is in line with other expectations. By that time, Galves predicted, autonomous cars will “look normal” instead of having large sensor arrays on the roof. They’ll be “adolescents” that are capable of doing quite a bit on their own but are still in training.
By 2025, autonomous cars will be “adults,” and we will be able to remove the human safety monitor sitting in the front seat and ready to take the wheel. That’s quicker than was predicted a few years ago, but none of Galves’s fellow panelists disagreed.
Joachim Damasky, managing director of Verband der Automobilindustrie in Germany, also said that it would take seven or eight years before fully autonomous cars would be able to tackle urban areas. But automated vehicles — which he was very particular to differentiate — would be ready by next year. These automated vehicles will be able to operate basic functions like steering and speed in controlled situations, such as a divided highway where everyone is driving the same direction (or is supposed to be) and at roughly the same speed.
“We’re not trying to take away driving function if you want to drive, but [we are trying] to make it safe,” Damasky said. Several speakers at the event mentioned the 1.2 million lives lost each year to traffic accidents, 90% of which can be attributed to human error.
But if the human is taken out of the equation, who’s in charge? That’s the regulatory sticking point in the United States, according to David Strickland of the Self-Driving Coalition for Safer Streets (and a former NHTSA administrator). In the United States, the federal government has been in charge of safety standards for vehicles — rules for machines. Likewise, states have been in charge of how those vehicles are operated through laws — rules for humans.
So if the machine takes over the duties of the human, is that the responsibility of the federal government to regulate or the states to regulate? NHTSA has produced guidelines, and the states are approaching autonomous testing piecemeal. Without a clear plan for moving forward, Strickland said, it’s difficult for auto manufacturers — and the startups that partner with them to supply cutting-edge technology — to move forward with confidence and efficiency.

 Kristen Hall-Geisler
Minard Hamilton
Contributor


Minard Hamilton, is a partner at BITKRAFT Esports Ventures, an early stage investor and
incubator with offices in both Berlin and Santa Monica.

It’s 78° and sunny in Venice.  The southwest swell is drawing surfers and sun-worshippers to the beach. But inside a nearby house, the residents couldn’t care less. 
They crowd around  high-end PC rigs, yelling into headsets.Their hands are blurs over keyboards, mice dart across tabletops.  The air is hot and and a cacophony fills the halls. Welcome to esports and the house of team Fnatic.
The Fnatic team plays Overwatch, Blizzard’s newest and fastest growing esports title. Fans are drawn by the opportunity to watch pros play at levels they can only dream about, like weekend golfers following Master’s pros across the fairways. Esports is well on its way to becoming big business and like all new businesses, entrepreneurs are founding companies to ride this wave of growth. Los Angeles is the Western epicenter of esports and fast becoming the hub for esports startups.
Los Angeles has always attracted  ambitious entrepreneurs who have built fortunes creating content — movies, music, television. In the ‘90s, entrepreneurs crossed computers with Hollywood and created today’s video game giants including Activision and Blizzard.
As those companies grew, related segments including mobile games, ad tech, analytics, multi-channel networks, social and subscription commerce evolved.  All this activity positioned Los Angeles to become the global capital of the next big sector — esports, which lives at the intersections of entertainment, games, and sports. Los Angeles is now the undisputed esports startup headquarters in America.

First, it is home to Riot Games, Blizzard and Activision.  These three video game companies collectively publish many of the largest esports titles including League of Legends, Hearthstone, Overwatch, and Starcraft II. To support the activities of these companies, the major esports tournament organizers ESL, FACEIT and Major League Gaming have offices here.
Also drawn to this burgeoning ecosystem are the North American esports teams, many of which have established team houses where their professional teams live and train — mostly train.  Counter Logic Gaming, Team SoloMid, Immortals and Team Liquid, all major esports teams, now have bases here.
Twitch, YouTube, Facebook, Twitter and MLB Advanced Media dominate distribution and, while none yet run their esports operations from Los Angeles, both Facebook and YouTube have significant presences.
Potential competitors for esports distribution rights include Snapchat, Netflix, Amazon Video and Hulu, all LA-based or hosting major programming operations in the city.
The last requirement for a robust startup ecosystem is capital.  Over the last few years, Los Angeles has seen tremendous growth in early-stage investors in the market.  Veteran seed investors like Upfront Ventures, Greycroft Partners and Idealab have been joined by new players like BITKRAFT Esports Ventures, March Capital, Amplify, Crosscut Ventures, Embark Ventures, Science Inc., Karlin Ventures, Mucker Capital, Arena Ventures, LOWERCASE Capital, Luma Launch and others.
Investments include companies like Scopely (mobile games), Zefr (video technology), Loot Crate (subscription commerce), Whipclip (video sharing), Fullscreen (video content), and Victorius (fan engagement).  There is a common thread that ties Los Angeles startups together — content. More often than not, the product that these companies are delivering is tied to content creation, consumption or monetization.  With their support, the final piece of the esports start-up ecosystem is complete.

Esports as a category is a natural evolution of this investing activity. While video games have existed for several decades, it is only in the last ten years that businesses have evolved around the idea that an audience existed that would want to watch them.
Twitch.tv, the platform that is the granddaddy of video game streaming, did not even spin out of Justin.tv until 2011.  And business models around esports are also fast-evolving with entrepreneurs focused on new ways to monetize sponsorships, digital goods, influencer marketing, and distribution. And so, we are seeing a community of esports startups beginning to coalesce in Los Angeles.
Investors like my own firm, BITKRAFT, and others like Amplify, Upfront, March Capital and Crosscut are intent on providing capital to them. Drawn to, and nurtured by, Los Angeles’ catalyzing combination of entrepreneurs, teams, publishers, platforms, organizers, and capital these esports companies are just the beginning of many more to come.
Something appears to have gone wrong. In our race to create newsfeeds full of angst and bile about Brexit and Trump, or photos full of pouting-teens against which ads can be sold, we’ve forgotten something. Namely, the power of the written world. And as Orwell himself wrote when illustrating “newspeak”, he who controls language controls the world:
“Don’t you see that the whole aim of Newspeak is to narrow the range of thought? In the end we shall make thought-crime literally impossible, because there will be no words in which to express it. Every concept that can ever be needed will be expressed by exactly one word, with its meaning rigidly defined and all its subsidiary meanings rubbed out and forgotten. . . . The process will still be continuing long after you and I are dead. Every year fewer and fewer words, and the range of consciousness always a little smaller. Even now, of course, there’s no reason or excuse for committing thought-crime. It’s merely a question of self-discipline, reality-control. But in the end there won’t be any need even for that. . . . Has it ever occurred to you, Winston, that by the year 2050, at the very latest, not a single human being will be alive who could understand such a conversation as we are having now?”
― George Orwell, 1984
But that perhaps is in a parallel future that hopefully will never arrive. Right now we have an opportunity to turn the ship around. According to neuroscience, our brains recall information better when it’s associated with something unusual or funny. Thus, it makes sense then to create a platform where that happens to aid learning. If we could achieve that then children would fall in love with learning words, and their vocabulary enriched, staving off the 1984 predictions.
To address this, enter Mrs. Wordsmith, the 1-year-old edTech startup focused on high quality visual content, that has now raised £2 million pounds in seed funding. London-based Kindred Capital led the round, which includes US edTech investor Reach Capital, SaatciNvest and Ropart Asset Management. The startup aims to disrupt the way literacy is learned through a monthly subscription-based vocabulary program
Currently, Mrs. Wordsmith is entirely paper-based, and the words come from a curated list of 10,000 words that have been identified as the ones academics have determined are the rare and challenging ones that help improve writing and comprehension.
Founder Sofia Fenichell, who announced the funding at The Europas conference, says “Not a single publisher anywhere has artfully curated and illustrated these words. We have not only identified which words to teach but how to teach them, through illustration and spaced repetition by putting them into context.”
Launched in 2016 by CEO Sofia Fenichell to help her own children improve their writing skills, Mrs. Wordsmith is aimed at transforming the way young people learn, retain and use the type of words that drive literacy and academic success.
She’s damn right that vocabulary is one of the most important indicators of academic success, there is little formal teaching, in such an efficient way, of the 10,000 words that enrich writing and deepen comprehension.
Mrs. Wordsmith has created a subscription-based vocabulary programme that helps young people learn rich and unique words in a way that’s visual, and easier to grasp and retain. Working on the neuroscientific basis that our brains better retain information that is unusual, the words have been creatively illustrated by Mrs Wordsmith’s Art Director, Craig Kellman, the award-winning artist behind the films Madagascar and Hotel Transylvania, and his team.
Mrs. Wordsmith will use the funding to continue to develop and improve its popular subscription-based paper product, but also to build out its technology team and to expand internationally into consumer and school audiences.
Leila Zegna of Kindred Capital says, ‘We are incredibly excited about the ambitious vision and unique approach that Mrs Wordsmith is taking to improve learning outcomes for young people around the globe. The initial product has been a runaway success with customers and achieved impressive uptake and revenue growth, predominantly via word of mouth marketing and customer evangelism, showcasing the strength of the brand that Mrs Wordsmith has already been able to build in a short period of time. We believe the potential of both the physical and digital product set is vast.”
Wayee Chu of Reach Capital says, “Mrs Wordsmith is filling a gap in the market for high quality content and visual learning. We have yet to encounter a company that is truly pioneering high quality visual learning. We are impressed by their early traction with both educators and consumers. We believe their products are going to be embraced in the US due to their humor, ease of use and high impact. We look forward to supporting them in their US launch later this year.”
Leila Zegna of Kindred Capital and Basma Alireza, angel investor behind electronic gaming companies Playfish and SuperCell, join the Mrs. Wordsmith board. Professor Ted Briscoe, who leads the Natural Language and Information Processing Group at the University of Cambridge, joins the advisory board.
The leader of the UK’s new minority government, Theresa May, is in France today for talks with her French counterpart, Emmanuel Macron, and the pair are slated to launch a joint crack down on online extremism.
Under discussion is whether new legal liability is needed for tech companies that fail to remove terrorism-related content — including even potentially fines.
Speaking ahead of her trip to Paris, May said: “The counter-terrorism cooperation between British and French intelligence agencies is already strong, but President Macron and I agree that more should be done to tackle the terrorist threat online.
“In the UK we are already working with social media companies to halt the spread of extremist material and poisonous propaganda that is warping young minds. And today I can announce that the UK and France will work together to encourage corporations to do more and abide by their social responsibility to step up their efforts to remove harmful content from their networks, including exploring the possibility of creating a new legal liability for tech companies if they fail to remove unacceptable content.”
“We are united in our total condemnation of terrorism and our commitment to stamp out this evil,” she added.
The move follows the G7 meeting last month, where May pushed for collective action from the group of nations on tackling online extremism — securing agreement from the group to push for tech firms to do more. “We want companies to develop tools to identify and remove harmful materials automatically,” she said then.
Earlier this month she also called for international co-operation to regulate the Internet to — in her words “prevent the spread of extremism and terrorist planning”. Although she was on the campaign stump at the time, and securing agreements across cross borders to ‘control the Internet’ is hardly something any single political leader, however popular (and May is not that) has in their gift.
The German government has recently backed a domestic proposal to fine social media firms up to €50 million if they fail to promptly remove illegal hate speech from their platforms — within 24 hours after a complaint has been made for “obviously criminal content”, and within seven days for other illegal content.
This has yet to be adopted as legislation. But domestic fines do present a more workable route for governments to try to compel the types of action they want to see from tech firms, albeit only locally.
And while the UK and France have not yet committed to applying fines as a stick to beat social media on content moderation, they are at least eyeing such measures now.
Last month, a UK parliamentary committee urged the government to look at financial penalties for social media companies that fail on content moderation — hitting out at Facebook, YouTube and Twitter for taking a “laissez-faire approach” to moderating hate speech content on their platforms.
Facebook’s content moderation rules have also recently been criticized by child safety charities — so it’s not just terrorism related material that tech firms are facing flak for spreading via their platforms.
We’ve reached out to Facebook, Google and Twitter for comment on the latest developments here and will update this story with any response.
As well as considering creating a new legal liability for tech companies, the UK Prime Minister’s Office said today that the UK and France will lead joint work with the firms in question — including to develop tools to identify and remove harmful material automatically.
“In particular, the Prime Minister and President Macron will press relevant firms to urgently establish the industry-led forum agreed at the G7 summit last month, to develop shared technical and policy solutions to tackle terrorist content on the internet,” the PM’s office said in a statement.
Tech firms do already use tools to try to automate the identification and removal of problem content — although given the vast scale of these user generated content platforms (Facebook, for example, has close to two billion users at this point), and the huge complexity of moderating so much UGC (also factoring in platforms’ typical preference for free speech), there’s clearly no quick and easy tech fix here (the majority of accounts Twitter suspends for promoting terrorism are already identified by its internal spam-fighting tools — but extremist content clearly remains a problem on Twitter).
Earlier this year, Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg revealed the company is working on applying AI to try to speed up its content moderation processes, though he also warned that AI aids are “still very early in development” — adding that “many years” will be required to fully develop them.
It remains to be seen whether the threat of new liability legislation will concentrate minds among tech giants to step up their performance on content moderation. Although there are signs they are already doing more.
At the start of this month the European Commission said the firms have made “significant progress” on illegal hate speech takedowns, a year after they agreed to a voluntary Code of Conduct. Facebook also recently announced 3,000 extra moderator staff to beef up its content review team (albeit, that’s still a drop in the ocean vs the 2BN users it has generating content).
Meanwhile, the efficacy of politicians focusing counterterrorism efforts on cracking down on online extremism remains doubtful. And following the recent terror attacks in the UK, May, who served as Home Secretary prior to being PM, faced criticism for making cuts to frontline policing.
Speaking to the Washington Post last week in the wake of the latest terror attack in London, Peter Neumann, director of the London-based International Center for the Study of Radicalization, argued the Internet is not to blame for the recent UK attacks.  “In the case of the most recent attacks in Britain, it wasn’t about the Internet. Many of those involved were radicalized through face-to-face interactions,” he said.

 Twin Design/Shutterstock
If you heard venture investors were pouring tens of millions into storage, you might think it was cloud storage or flash storage. But that’s not the kind of storage we’re talking about with Clutter.
The Los Angeles-based startup, which helps customers store their physical belongings like clothing and furniture, has closed a $64 million funding round from big name investors. The series C is led by UK-based Atomico with participation from Sequoia Capital, Google Ventures (GV) and Fifth Wall.
Clutter picks up and delivers your items on demand and everything can be arranged online. They aim to make storing your belongings as convenient as possible.
If this sounds familiar it’s because MakeSpace, Omni and Trove also raised money for similar concepts. Apparently, the market opportunity is big!
“Storage is a large industry that has not been optimized or refined by technology,” Sequoia partner Omar Hamoui told TechCrunch. He believes there’s “room for more than one of these companies to be there.”
It turns out that people have a lot of stuff. And they don’t like going to warehouses to retrieve their items. Conjuring your ski equipment with the tap of a button is appealing to consumers.
Plus, since they are bringing their items to you, they can rent facilities in less desirable locations. That saves a lot of wasted real estate money.
Yet Clutter insists they are unlike the other startups in the space because they have better unit economics. (I cannot confirm this comparison because they have not shared their financials.)
Says Mir about Clutter, they’re “not only profitable on every individual customer, but we’re producing a gross profit in every single city we operate in.” Revenue is in the tens of millions, but the overall business is not profitable.
Right now they are focused on adding new cities. They’re already in Los Angeles, San Francisco, New York, New Jersey, Chicago, Seattle, Santa Barbara, San Diego and Orange County. Now they want to expand internationally.
That’s part of the reason they partnered with Atomico. “We had so much conviction around the team and the business,” said Hiro Tamura, partner at Atomico. He says they intend to be a “huge part” in helping Clutter move “beyond the borders of the U.S.”
Everyone involved with Clutter believes they have what it takes to challenge Public Storage, a $35 billion public company. When asked if they might IPO someday, Mir didn’t hold back. “100%. there’s no way in hell we’ll ever sell this company.”
 
 
Thanks in part to funding by Google.org, Equal Justice Initiative has launched an online platform to explore the history of lynching in America. The goal with Lynching in America is to enable people to confront the history of lynching through research, data and the stories of those affected by lynching in America.
“After slavery was formally abolished, lynching emerged as a vicious tool of racial control to reestablish white supremacy and suppress black civil rights,” the site reads.
It goes on to note that between 1877 and 1950, more than 4,000 black people were lynched across twenty states as “public acts of racial terrorism, intended to instill fear in entire black communities.”
The website features six distinct sections. The first includes oral histories from descendants of lynching victims, while other elements of the site include a six-minute documentary, data visualizations of lynching and the Great Migration, and a version of the report to use in classrooms.
In The Great Migration section, we can see that lynchings and other acts of racial violence in the first half of the 20th century forced more than 6 million black people to flee the South, often to cities in the North and West. In Oakland, Calif., for example, the African-American population went from just 2 percent black in 1910 to 34.5 percent black in 1970.

Since 2016, The Equal Justice Initiative has received a total of $2 million in grant money from Google.org. The first $1 million came in 2016, and the second $1 million comes in tandem with the launch of Lynching in America. The EJI plans to use this round of grant money to support its national memorial to lynching victims, which is slated to open in 2018 in Montgomery, Alabama.
“Google has been able to take what we know about lynching, and what we have heard from the families, and what we have seen in the spaces and the communities where these acts of terror took place, and make that knowledge accessible to a lot more people,” Equal Justice Initiative Founder and Executive Director Bryan Stevenson said in a statement. “To create a platform for hearing and understanding and seeing this world that we’ve lived through.”
AndroidPay, Google’s wallet for Android devices, is getting a boost in its global profile and functionality today: WorldRemit, the $500 million remittance startup connected to around 120 million mobile money accounts globally, which lets residents in one country transfer money to family and friends in another, has announced that it will now let people make transfers using Google’s mobile wallet.
Android Pay will be used for paying into the app; those receiving the money can specify any mobile bank account to collect the transferred funds.
This is a first for Android Pay, which up to now has been used for in-app and contactless payments and to make P2P transfers to people in the same country, but never international P2P money transfers.
Google has seen some interesting recent milestones since launching Android Pay in 2015, including a recent partnership with PayPal, integrating it with Facebook’s Messenger for group payments, and an expanded payment API to boost ubiquity for Android Pay across many more apps and transactional scenarios.
Android Pay today has around 25 million users across 15 countries, according to recent Juniper Research estimates, and linking up with WorldRemit (and eventually other remittance companies, as this is not an exclusive deal) could give usage of the wallet a boost, both in terms of user numbers and also transactions.
Remittances were a $442 billion market in 2016, according to World Bank estimates. Only a small part of that runs through new apps like WorldRemit’s and gets terminated in mobile wallets: a significant proportion still runs on legacy rails from the likes of Western Union and MoneyGram, and terminates (that is, the money gets picked up) at physical stores.
But with the explosive growth of smartphones, we’ve seen a corresponding boom in smartphone-based services.
Taking the area of money management, there are still 2 billion people in the developing world who are “unbanked” — that is, without traditional bank accounts — but about half a billion are already using their mobiles as bank accounts (essentially, paying money into and out of their mobile voice and data accounts). So unsurprisingly, remittance companies have spotted an opportunity to move some of the huge market for remittances to mobile.
A large proportion of WorldRemit’s users are in developing markets, and about 60 percent of its customers are using Android devices, and the company already claims a 74 percent market share of all international remittances going into mobile money accounts, so adding Google’s payment platform was a logical first move when adding the first mobile wallet to its service.
 “Mobile money is our fastest growing channel,” said Ismail Ahmed, WorldRemit’s CEO in an interview. He also notes that it’s working on adding others like Apple Pay, too.
“We are planning to add Apple Pay as the US becomes a bigger part of our business,” he said in an interview. The company secured its US license in 2014, “and it’s our fastest growing send market today, so yes, Apple Pay is important but clearly android is the bigger market for us right now.” If this catches on, it could see some consolidation of another form: today WorldRemit works with around 30 mobile money services, but there are at least another 260 in use in the market today.
For Google, this could be a way to tap more people who are already Android users but have yet to make the move to activate and use Android Pay.
“We want to make it easier for organisations like WorldRemit to offer a simpler, faster in-app payment solution for their customers,” said Pali Bhat, Director, Product Management at Google, in a statement. “With Android Pay, people will be able to speed through checkout with their Android phones in a few clicks.”
The promise of using mobile wallets, Ahmed pointed out, was that they simplify and secure the process of uploading and storing payment details. Users of the WorldRemit app would not need to use a separate app for each payment, or be taken to any verification pages — two steps that often see huge drop off in transactions.
“Anything that can help and reduce the friction is great,” he added. Transaction fees, he said, are similar to those that WorldRemit pays other payment providers today, which depends on size and volume of transfers but averages at less than five percent.
Google’s new role in international remittances comes at an interesting time for the big tech giants and how they have tackled the opportunity to do more business in emerging markets. Remittances has been one area that has been targeted because money transfers has one of the key uses for mobile phones in the developing world.
Recall that Facebook — owner of Messenger, WhatsApp and Instagram — had at one point even considered buying a remittance startup, which should come as no surprise, since one big opportunity for messaging app owners to monetize their apps is to enable payments between people across different countries, who are already using those messaging apps to communicate cheaply with each other.
In the end, it looks like a lot of those app owners are more likely, at least in the first instance, to partner with third parties — although that, too, has had its hiccups.
“Part of the reasoning is the complexity of regulations,” Ahmed said. “Consumers are concerned with who is doing the actual transactions, and it is about getting the balance right. Historically, we had a model where someone would say ‘powered by’ but a lot of regulators in developing markets are not happy with that because then no one understands who is running this, if you have a problem.” 
But, he continued, “It will be fixed eventually. There is going to be a convergence of messaging and payments, and we are talking to all the leading messaging apps.”
From what we understand, WorldRemit, which has raised just under $148 million in funding from backers that include Accel and TCV, could be raising another round to fuel that next level of growth.

 WorldRemit/Flickr UNDER A CC BY-SA 2.0 LICENSE
When I gingerly held the little spring-loaded plastic device which would shortly be hurtling an extremely sharp needle towards my finger at a rate of knots, I wondered momentarily about Theranos. Here was a company led by a turtle-necked founder who’d promised angels would dance upon a pin, thus writing your future. Or, perhaps more accurately, the world upon a small spec of blood on a pin. It was a high-handed claim then. It still is. But the difference is this: I’d already undergone a long, detailed quiz by Thriva, the UK-based startup. They’d set my expectations. They’d already implied they could not (sorry) tell if I was going to die at 70. Just whether I should ease back on a few things and push hard on other, probably greener and crunchier, things. And maybe, just maybe, you ought to hit the gym more often, Mr Butcher?
Admittedly I probably already knew that. But two things occur to me about monitoring your health. Firstly, lots of people do not believe the data this until someone genuinely medical tells them (and if it’s a convincing, scientific company, then all well and good). That’s good for Thriva.
Secondly, the more educated amongst us genuinely love the scientific nature of the results. This is not a personal trainer or “wellness expert” sticking their finger in the air and telling you to do more press ups or eat more broccoli. This is bona-fide blood test results. So, eventually, when my results said I should watch the cholesterol levels and maybe cut out the butter and fried chicken, I believed it.
This is the crucial point about Thriva. It sets expectations and then delivers real results. Unlike another blood-testing start-up one might mention.
And this is possibly why it has also now raised £1.5 million in seed funding, announced at The Europas today in London. The investment round includes Alex Chesterman, founder and CEO of Zoopla, Simon Franks (LoveFilm founder), Taavet Hinrikus (TransferWise founder), as well as the early stage venture funds Seedcamp, 500 Startups and the London Co-Investment Fund (LCIF).
With a simple finger-prick blood test that can be done at home, with results within 48 hours, people can take control of their health, and they get a dashboard to track health changes over time.
The money will be used to expand their product range into looking at your gut health to heavy metals to hormones. As with similar companies, it is increasingly improving its dataset and applying machine learning to provide more powerful insights and predictions.
“Your blood can tell an amazing story about your health. Our mission is to ensure that understanding and tracking your biochemistry becomes as normal as counting your steps or jumping on the weighing scales,” says Thriva CEO Hamish Grierson. He believes this will be commonplace inside the next 5 years.
The questions are clear though. Can they get past the huge dip in engagement after a few months when people get tired of monitoring their blood? The results suggest they might. Secondly, perhaps there is the possibility of integrate this with national health services? That’s a long shot. But then again the “worried well” love to monitor themselves, so who needs that.
Revolut, the London fintech startup that offers a card and current account features, coupled with low currency exchange, is launching a new product aimed at businesses — upping the ante against competing services, such as TransferWise’s recently launched “Borderless account”.
Available in the U.K./Europe, the new Revolut offering enables companies to sign up for multi-currency accounts, where they’ll be able to hold and transfer money across 25 supported currencies at the interbank exchange rate, as well as doing things like issuing employees with corporate cards for “global fee-free spending”.
“Additional features will include free and instant money transfers between companies that are signed up to Revolut for Business, real-time spending notifications, [and] dedicated customer support,” says the company.
However, unlike TransferWise, which offers its account for free but generates revenue via a transparent fee whenever you exchange currency or transfer money out of the account, Revolut is charging a monthly fee ranging from £25.00 – £1,000 per month, depending on your business requirements. To encourage companies to make the switch, the first month will be free.
TransferWise offers account numbers for the U.K., Europe and the U.S., meaning that for most functionality it is just like having a local bank account in those supported countries. It also lets you store money in 15 other currencies. Similarly, Revolut provides a local U.K. current account, and a multi-currency IBAN number for the other 23 currencies it supports.
TransferWise is also planning to launch a card, but, for now at least, Revolut has the upper hand here with the ability to issue a company’s employees with free corporate cards for spending abroad. It is also worth noting that, unlike TransferWise, Revolut’s new business offering isn’t initially available to sole traders or freelancers.
With all of the above said, it’s probably a mistake to frame both TransferWise and Revolut’s new business product as taking chunks out of each other. The real enemy here are incumbent banks and the high currency exchange rates and inflexible multi-currency business banking they typically provide. Other fintech companies, such as World First, are also eyeing up businesses’ multi-currency needs.
Meanwhile, Revolut has been pretty active of late, rolling out a plethora of features that take it beyond a pre-paid card for low currency exchange when spending abroad. The company launched “current account” functionality in February, putting it into neobank territory, and followed up in March by offering credit in partnership with Lending Works.
The same month, Revolut rolled out a subscription version of its consumer service that sees users pay a monthly fee for unlimited interbank foreign exchange when you spend, transfer and exchange money via a Revolut account.
Late last week, we also learned that the London startup has taken venture debt from U.S.-based Triplepoint Capital, according to a regulatory filing. The amount remains undisclosed, and will be used to see the company through to a much larger Series B round currently in the works.
There’s disturbing news from Pakistan, where a man has been handed the death sentence for allegedly making blasphemous comments on Facebook.
The Guardian reports that Taimoor Raza was founded guilty of insulting the prophet Muhammad by a court this week. His charge relates to comments made during a debate about Islam with another user on the social network, who subsequently turned out to be an undercover counter-terrorism agent.
This is the stiffest punishment that Pakistan has handed down for online comments to date. The ruling is part of a wider crackdown on blasphemous material on the internet. Pakistani authorities have pushed Google, Facebook and others to identify users posting such comments online, and they even asked their own citizens to be vigilant of posts made by others.
“The casual manner in which death sentences are handed in blasphemy cases coupled with the lack of orientation of Pakistani courts with technology makes this a very dangerous situation,” Human Rights Watch representative Saroop Ijaz told The Guardian in a statement.
In years past, Pakistan has issued temporary blocks on Facebook, and then Twitter. A three-year ban on YouTube was lifted last year.

 TechCrunch
Ubisoft’s next Far Cry game is already surrounded by controversy, and it hasn’t even been released yet. The modern rural Montana setting maybe hits a little bit too close to home for some, but the game was still on display and playable for a short demo, specifically focusing on the companion recruitment system with NPC support characters.
The system lets you select between three support characters in the demo, each with their own strengths and weaknesses. A dog, Boomer, is a stealthy pal, identifying enemies for you and also picking them off – provided he can get them alone and take them down without any witnesses. Grace, a long-range sniper, is a blend of deadliness and discretion, while Nick, a pilot, can rain down destruction with bombs from his biplane, in a decidedly open assault on your mutual enemies.
I watched someone ahead of me use Boomer to painstakingly awesome effect, directing him to lure and then take down enemies embedded in a small town gameplay area one by one. My colleague Jordan also chose Boomer, but defeated the baddies mostly by more direct means. I, on the other hand, chose Nick, and mostly ran around throwing dynamite and blowing up as much as I could.

All three gameplay styles seemed to produce satisfying results. I definitely enjoyed my few minutes with the game, but I was a huge fan of both Far Cry 4 and Far Cry Primal, too. Jordan was new to the serious but had fun, also. There was an unsettling moment where I considered that I was looking down a sniper scope from a water tower in modern-day America, but it’s hard to fault Ubisoft for that when I’ve enjoyed hours of glee doing pretty much the same thing in environs in Far Cry 4 that are no less realistic, if a bit more removed from my immediate surroundings in daily life.



The companion selection system also seems very cool, and like something that can significantly add to the value of repeated play. Along with online co-op available throughout the game, this should add a lot to the basic Far Cry formula. Ubisoft wouldn’t spell out how the system will work in the final game, which doesn’t arrive until February 27, anyway, but they did say that your pals will only “die” temporarily in game, triggering a cool down period if they do run into too much trouble from enemies.
Basically, I had a great time with my brief Far Cry experience, but that’s pretty typical for me for the franchise. I still feel like this one offers more gameplay variety through its new mechanics, even though I didn’t spend too much time with it, so I’m excited for the full game once it arrives.
Indonesia is one of Southeast Asia’s most promising startup market. Today, its ecosystem gained a new investor with the launch of Intudo Ventures’ debut fund, which has more than $10 million to invest into about 12 to 16 early-stage startups, as well as joint ventures with overseas companies that want to break into the Indonesian market.
Intudo was founded by Eddy Chan and Patrick Yip (pictured above), who are working with founding advisor Timothy Chen. Collectively, the three have invested in a notable roster of companies including PayPal, SpaceX, Palantir, Netscreen, and Fortinet. Intudo (a combination of the Bahasa Indonesian words for integrity, sincerity, and serendipity) will look for companies in e-commerce, finance, healthcare, education, and media.
While Indonesia’s startup industry and venture capital ecosystem are still young, Chan told TechCrunch that Intudo’s team “sees strikingly similar trends to what we observed in China in the early 2000s.”
Indonesia is the world’s fourth-largest country by population, with about 260 million people, and it is also one of the fastest-growing Internet markets by penetration, with Internet users (most mobile-first) expected to jump from a current 92 million to 215 million in 2020.
Furthermore, Indonesia’s population is relatively young and increasingly affluent, and this gives consumer startups a lot of opportunities.
For example, Indonesian-based marketplace Tokopedia has raised about $248 million from investors including SoftBank, while Alibaba poured $1 billion into Lazada last year to gain a stronger foothold in Southeast Asia e-commerce. A few other examples of tech companies and investors paying close attention to Southeast Asia—and Indonesia in particular—include Tencent (which recently led a $1.2 billion round in on-demand transportation startup Go-Jek), Amazon, and JD.com.
Another parallel between Indonesia and China’s startup industries is the high-profile of founders who have worked or studied abroad. Called “sea turtles” in China, Chan refers to their Southeast Asian counterparts as S.E.A. Turtles and he says they will have an important influence on Indonesia’s tech sector by bringing knowledge and networks acquired while overseas.
Some S.E.A. Turtles returned to Indonesia specifically to launch startups, while others were recruited by the local offices of tech leaders like Google, Facebook, Amazon, Alibaba, or Tencent before leaving to found their own companies.
Either way, Intudo’s goal is to help promising returnees nail down the right time to have a major impact on Indonesia’s ecosystem. In China, Chan says, ’sea turtles’ had significant influence in the 2000s, but as the tech sector matured, their advantages became less unique.
“Nowadays, with the clear establishment of best practices, talent, and infrastructure in place in China, ‘sea turtle’ talent still fits a niche, but is no longer as much of a game changing factor,” says Chan.
“We feel the Indonesian startup industry/venture capital ecosystem is still emerging, making it ripe for S.E.A. Turtles to return to help build out best practices and infrastructure, which will allow them to capitalize the growth of the venture capital ecosystem. If they do not return in the next few years, the window may have closed and they may be left on the outside looking in.”
Intudo will focus on leading seed and Series A rounds, with initial investments ranging from $200,000 to $1.25 million, and the total amount invested from the fund into a startup ranging from about $1 million to $2.5 million. (Chan says that while Silicon Valley-based startups usually raise about $1 million to $5 million for seed funding, and $5 million and $15 million for Series A rounds, in Indonesia that figure is usually divided by five because of differences in cost structure. In other words, Indonesia-based startups usually raised about $200,000 to $1 million for seed rounds, and $1 million to $3 million in Series A financing, though recently he has seen funding amounts and valuations for some startups increase dramatically by their Series B and Series C rounds, so that they are comparable to similar companies in Silicon Valley).
For joint ventures, Intudo will look at companies that have already raised their Series B or C and want to expand into Indonesia.
Chan says Intudo is “very bullish on the consumer sector and the opportunity to build some world-class direct-to-consumer brands,” as well as financial tech because credit card penetration in Indonesia is still very low. He adds that inefficiencies in the country’s healthcare system also creates opportunities in the health sector if the right distribution partners are found.
The Assassin’s Creed series gets its latest instalment with Origins, the new game revealed by Ubisoft this year at E3. I got to spend some time playing the new title on Xbox One X, and it definitely will not disappoint fans of the series in terms of how it plays. It also depends some aspects of combat, and a new arena in-game feature rewards those who enjoy open fighting, as opposed to stealth.
What I played was only an alpha version of the game, which isn’t set to actually come out until October 27, 2017. But what I did get to experience, including one city set in a contested area of the game occupied by both Greeks and Egyptians, felt finished. The second part of the demo took place in the arena, first with a match against waves of ordinary enemies, and then with a boss battle.
A representative from Ubisoft explained that the arena feature, when implemented in the main game, will be unlocked at some point during the campaign, and then a player can return any time, and compete to unlock new gear and other rewards. It’s all about direct combat, in an actual arena outfitted with active traps and other environmental hazards, and it’s a cool twist on existing Assassin’s Creed gameplay.
That gameplay is what you’ve come to expect and love from Assassin’s Creed. The area I got to play was a lot of low-lying buildings, and some ships docked in the harbor, so it was less about scaling and more about diving to avoid detection, and sneaking up on ship-board enemies. It still felt very much like an Assassin’s Creed game, with a rich, unlimited capacity inventory system and lots of drops even in my short time that deepen the RPG elements.
Your falcon companion can also scout out locations and pinpoint enemies to help you plan your attack. And even with the little time I had with it, Bayek comes across as a protagonist you can definitely get behind, and a worthwhile progenitor of the Brotherhood.
It wasn’t a long demo, but my hands-on definitely had me interested in picking up the game once it’s available in October.
Today’s Stories 

Uber’s board votes unanimously to adopt all recommendations of Holder report
The Xbox One X Reveal in two minutes
Snap is developing a second version of Spectacles which may include augmented reality
Lyft gets $25M and a fleet of cars from new partner Jaguar Land Rover

Credits
Written by: Tito Hamze, John MannesHosted by: Tito HamzeFilmed by: Joe ZolnoskiEdited by: Tito Hamze
Notes:

I don’t know what to wear on Crunch Report (It’s a hard decision and I suck at dressing myself). If you are a startup and want to me to wear something mail me an XL T-shirt and I’ll wear it in an episode. I’m not going to mention the company on the shirt in the episode but it will be there. No offensive stuff, it’s totally at my discretion if I wear it. Mail it to me. Thanks <3 Ok, bye.

TechCrunch C/O Tito Hamze
410 Townsend street
Suite 100
San Francisco Ca. 94107
Remember the good old days when cartoon robot toys were all the rage? Maybe you were a Transformers kid or maybe you were into Microbots. And, if you were very lucky, you got to experience to joy of the mini transforming Sewbots.
If you were lucky you got the Sewbots Command Center and if you were really, really lucky you can now get the SoftWear Automation Sewbot, a fully functional sewing robot that can make pillows, pants, mattresses and towels. Five years ago the company received a grant for DARPA to product the first real sewing robots and they succeeded, ultimately raising $4.5 million to further advance the sewing state of the art.
Founded by a set of Georgia Tech science professors, the company was a “response to the effects of offshoring textile and apparel manufacturing had on the US economy,” said CEO Palaniswamy “Raj” Rajan. They’ve received a $2 million grant from the Walmart Foundation and a $3 million Series A from CTW Venture Partners. This latest round is a Series A1.
The company’s Sewbots has produced 2 million home goods since 2015. The robots are designed to hold onto and sew cloth and other materials by “mapping” the surface as it sews. Sewing in general has been a thorny problem for decades and the Sewbots are some of the first robots to do it without resorting to heavily snatched materials.
“Most automation in textiles and apparel is operation specific — focused on automating a particular process— and still require an operator to feed and manage the machine,” said Rajan. “Using our patented computer vision technology, SoftWear’s fully automated Sewbots are able to replace the operator without making any modifications to the material.”
While a robot that can sew bathmats is not nearly as cool as Cy-Kill, Spay-C, or Leader-1 you can still be the first kid on your block to entirely change the face of a labor-intensive manufacturing process that has long been the bane of the industrialized world everywhere. The choice is yours.
Bethesda has been getting its money out of that whole Skyrim thing.
Today at Sony’s E3 2017 press conference, the studio announced it would be rereleasing Elder Scrolls 5: Skyrim on PlayStation VR this November.
The company already announced yesterday that it was bringing the title to Nintendo Switch later this year.
With Bethesda bringing titles like Skyrim, Fallout and Doom to VR, one might wonder why there hasn’t been any love for the Oculus Rift while titles have been announced for both the PlayStation VR and HTC Vive. That reason would be Bethesda parent company ZeniMax Media suing the bejesus out of Oculus and getting a $500 million judgment. Oculus CTO John Carmack is currently suing ZeniMax for a few million also so there’s more than a little bad blood there.
Alongside Skyrim, a number of other VR titles were announced, including the advent of Superhot VR on the system, a title that has gotten rave reviews on the Rift and just launched on the Vive.
Sony has sold over a million PlayStation VR headset since launching in October and while regular console play was obviously the main event, VR wasn’t forgotten.
Good evening!!
Just over 24 hours after the Xbox One X was revealed, Sony is ready to enter the ring. Of course, the Playstation maker doesn’t seem to have any new hardware to announce, but we expect loads of new games!
We’ll be bringing you the action live right here (as long as the Wifi doesn’t crap out).



Lights are dimmed! Sony’s E3 presentation starts RIGHT NOW!
Reviewers have not been kind to Apple’s first TV offering, “Planet of the Apps.” Variety had a particularly entertaining, if biting, take, with writer Maureen Ryan likening the show to “something that was developed at a cocktail party, and not given much more rigorous thought or attention after the pitcher of mojitos was drained.”
Earlier today, we talked with one of the show’s “stars,”  Jeremy Liew of Lightspeed Venture Partners, about those reviews, along with how many startups he found through the filming and where he’s shopping now. Liew said he doesn’t mind the critics’ opinions but worries founders could miss a solid opportunity to learn from the pitch meetings aired in the latter half of each episode. “I don’t think there are many opportunities like this for people to understand how the process of pitching a VC works in real life.”
The next episode airs tomorrow. More from our conversation, edited for length, follows.
TC: Lightspeed reportedly had to commit $10 million across various companies as part of this show. How many investments did you make? 
JL: We made about a dozen investments altogether across the 10 episodes. We committed to making our best effort to fund interesting companies, but we were also clear that we weren’t going to drop our standards. Because of the nature of the show, we made more seed- and pre-seed stage investments than is typically the case for the firm [but in solid teams].
TC: How many pitches did you sit through for the filming of the show, and did you feel like they were vetted well enough? 
JL: We probably sat through 35 to 40. They were very well vetted. Thousands of people applied originally; the founders who met with us had made it through a number of levels [including talking with show mentors Jessica Alba, Gwyneth Paltrow, Will.i.Am, and Gary Vaynerchuk, as well as participating in six-week incubator] before we talked with them.
There’s a pretty big investment that gets made tomorrow night. We made a few investments that would qualify as Series A size checks.
TC: You were holding one-hour long meetings with these companies — not listening to the escalator ride pitches that are a feature of the show. Do you believe in elevator — or escalator, in this case — pitches?
JL: Absolutely. Investors, journalists — we get pitched a million times a day. If someone is inarticulate or unable to capture in 30 seconds why we should pay attention to them, they either don’t have [an interesting story], they don’t understand what’s special about their business, or they don’t have that charismatic, visionary feel that you often need to change the world. People do need a good elevator pitch. You have to give someone a good reason to spend an hour talking with you.
TC: When people participate in a show, they’re often surprised by the final product. Do you feel like the editors did you justice?
JL: I do think I come across the way I actually am and that the nature of the conversations we had with the entrepreneurs was very well-preserved. For people who want to understand how VCs make investments, it’s an excellent window onto how the process works in real life. To some extent, the [filmmakers] could have chosen all the clever things or dumb things or nice things we said, but I think they captured the essence of the conversations pretty accurately. Anyone wanting to know what a real pitch process is like could do a lot worse then watch them to see what works, what doesn’t, the kinds of questions you get, how people can answer those questions well and answer them badly. I don’t think there’s another resource quite like it.
TC: Outside of the show, where are you shopping right now? 
JL: E-commerce and m-commerce continue to be the gift that keeps on giving as more people buy things online. My most recent investment, for example, was Rothy’s, an e-commerce startup that makes fashionable women’s flats. [Editor’s note: The Times wrote up the company in its Style section last week. Its shoes are made from recycled plastic water bottles.]
The special twist is the shoes are made through a 3-D knitting machine that enables them to use different colors and styles and enjoy a great deal of flexibility. They’re also known for being super comfortable to wear.
TC: You’ve also been a bitcoin bull for several years. Are you still actively backing bitcoin and blockchain technology companies?
JL: We have four investment right now: Ripple [the real-time payment system], Blockchain [the bitcoin wallet company]; [the Chinese bitcoin exchange] BTTC, and LedgerX [a company that’s right now awaiting final approval from the Commodity Futures Trading Commission for its bitcoin options trading service].
We may have more to report in that space in a little while. But as everybody is seeing, the industry has been heating up over the last 12 to 18 months after a bit of a slow start. You’re seeing much broader adoption taking place right now across industries, across geographies, and across use cases.
TC: What do you make of internet coin offerings, or ICOs, and should VCs be nervous about them as an alternative means for startups to raise money?
JL: I think it’s a super exciting space. Whenever you have people pushing the envelope, you’ll see some success and failure, and we’re paying a lot of attention.
TC: Have you taken part in an ICO, just to better understand firsthand how the process works?
JL: I haven’t. But the more important question is what happens to those tokens after the product launches and whether a liquid market develops beyond speculation. As those markets and tokens develop, we’ll see what those opportunities look like.
TC: You led an investment for Lightspeed in Snap, which is now down 30 percent from its IPO price. Did you sell at the IPO? Are you concerned about its prospects?
JL: Snap asked some of the early holders to sell a little bit at the IPO to provide additional liquidity at the float, and we complied with that request, as did all the other early investors.
TC: Think the stock is misunderstood?
JL: I’d never bet against Evan Spiegel and his product sense. He has a once-in-a-generation type mind for product. I think he has a lot of interesting stuff up his sleeve, too, that we’ll start to see over the coming quarters.
TC: As we speak, you’re in a car en route to the airport. You’ve traveled a lot in recent years, saying Silicon Valley is an echo chamber and you can get a better feel for consumer trends elsewhere. Is that still the case?
JL: I’m still traveling a lot, yes. I made 45 trips last year, and I’m on track to do the same this year.
Part of why we participated in “Planet of the Apps” is because we’re seeing more entrepreneurs starting outside of the Bay Area and wanted a better mechanism to reach those people. I’m on my way to Luxembourg right now. I’ve been to Belgrade, Tennessee, Arkansas, the University of Chicago.
Infrastructure entrepreneurship is still largely concentrated in the Bay Area, but consumer entrepreneurship is so distributed; if you want to see great founders, you need to be willing to get on a plane.
It’s been a bad few days for tech stocks.
The FANG stocks, a moniker used to collectively describe Facebook, Amazon, Netflix and Google (now Alphabet) have had a rough two days on Wall Street. And even though Apple isn’t included in the original FANG group (which was designed to describe a grouping of high-risk but high-reward mega-growth stocks), the company has also underperformed in the last two days.
Here’s a brief summary of the damage, between when the market opened Friday morning and closed this afternoon.

Facebook is down ~4.5%, falling from to $155.55 to $148.44
Amazon is down ~4.75%, falling from $1013.00 to $964.91
Netflix is down ~8.67%, falling from $165.82 to 151.44
Google, or Alphabet, is down ~4%, falling from $984.15 to $942.90
Apple is down ~6.24%, falling from $154.82 to $145.42

The chart below shows their performance over the last month (with the S&P 500 in orange for comparison), which really shows how severe the two-day downturn is.

There are a few interesting things about this correction.
First, the decline started Friday morning as soon as the markets opened – all of the above five stocks slide almost immediately, timed to a Goldman Sachs market note that said the market may be over relying on this group of technology companies for growth and the “FAANG” stocks may be seeing a valuation bubble.
While certainly not dire, the report raised valid concerns and may have caused caused the investors to reconsider how much their portfolios were relying on these stocks.
Another interesting thing is that this wasn’t a market-wide correction, and essentially was limited to the tech sector. The S&P 500 Index is down about .64% in the same time-period, and even the NASDAQ, which is tech-heavy and very heavily influenced by most of the FANG stocks, was only down 2.62%.
So if anything it’s actually a good sign for the economy as a whole that this tech-focused downturn didn’t have more of an effect on the broader market.
 
It’s also interesting that beyond the Goldman note mentioned above, and an Apple downgrade, there hasn’t been much tangible news from any of these companies to explain the sudden drop in price.
Plus, earnings were pretty good last quarter, with Facebook, Amazon, and Alphabet beating estimates and only slight misses by Apple and Netflix.
It’s also important to remember that even though these stock have had a bad couple of days, they have all tremendously outperformed the market in the long-term, with all of them up over 20% year to date (compared to the S&P 500 which is up 8.5% since January 1st.
So while it’s unclear how much more of a correction we’ll see from these tech stocks, the fact that the downturn is being caused by investor sentiment, instead of tangible events like missed earnings or negative company news, is probably a good sign that investors will eventually return to the growth that few other stocks outside of FANG have been able to provide.
Hello, the makers of the bedside sleep tracker Sense, is shutting down as after looking for a buyer, according to a blog post from the company. The news was first reported by Axios, which said the company has laid off most of its employees and sought a buyer of its assets.
We’ve also heard that the details via Axios are on-point, including talks with Fitbit for the company’s assets with no outcome. We’ve also heard that some of the engineering team will — unsurprisingly — be headed to sleep startup Casper. That team will be part of the company’s San Francisco R&D team. Casper sells a wide portfolio of sleep products like the mattress, sheets, pillows, and of course a dog bed.
The company was valued between $250 million and $300 million in a financing round in 2015, when it raised $40 million in a round led by Temasek. The company raised $2.4 million on Kickstarter for its first product, but since then has tried to roll out new features like a version with voice recognition late last year. That last unit was priced at $149.
Hello positioned itself as a sleep tracker that you wouldn’t have to wear on your wrist, instead sitting somewhere in your room with a small tracker that fits inside your pillow. Sleep tracking has increasingly become a component of a lot of fitness and health tracking, with there even being a “Bedtime” function baked into iOS.
Hello also aimed to make its service equal parts software and the actual physical hardware. The goal would be to make sure users get to optimal sleep environments — whether with white noise or having a comfortable room — and try to keep those environments consistent and build up good habits around sleep.

Inevitably, though, these kinds of bedside hardware products face an existential risk from voice-powered assistants like Alexa and Google Home (and, soon, the HomePod). While these products aren’t necessarily branded around sleep, it doesn’t seem like too much of a leap to bring those kinds of features to things like the Echo and Google Home. It could turn out to be as simple as saying, “Alexa, please slowly turn the lights on at 7 a.m. and make sure I wake up.”
And hardware is a different beast than just creating an app that builds better sleeping habits. In August last year, the company said it would begin selling Sense at Best Buy and Target. That means that a startup like Hello suddenly has to grapple with complex problems like supply chain management and distribution, as well as the right marketing to ensure that people actually end up buying the tracker off the shelves. The company hired a new CMO from DoorDash in September last year.
I’ve reached out to CEO James Proud, an early Thiel fellow, for some additional detail and haven’t heard back yet. We reached out to Casper, which also hasn’t responded to a request for comment yet.

 Hello
In May, SoFi CEO Michael Cagney told TechCrunch the company would be applying for a bank charter “in the next month.” Well, it’s about a month later, and — surprise! — the company has actually done so.
On June 6, SoFi applied for a de novo (or “new”) bank charter, according to a filing notice on the FDIC website. There will be an open comment period on the application for the next month, which will close July 6. The company confirmed it submitted the application, which TechCrunch has received a copy of.
The company is applying for an industrial loan charter under the name SoFi Bank in Utah, listing a Salt Lake City location as its proposed depositary address. However, the company makes clear in the application that SoFi Bank will operate as an online-only institution, with no branches or deposit-taking ATMs.
According to the filing, SoFi Bank is applying “for the purposes of providing its customers a FDIC insured NOW account and a credit card product. The bank will offer no other products and services.”
As it notes in the filing:

The bank will primarily, although not exclusively, offer its accounts and other products and services to SoFi members, which make up borrowers and investors on the SoFi platform. SoFi specializes in marketing financial products and services to people who prefer to access banking products and services over the Internet and other electronic systems, especially “Millennials”. There is a strong trend among this demographic to not utilize traditional banking channels such as branches and paper checks. SoFi has become a leading provider of financial services to these consumers and finds the lack of adequate options an opportunity to lead in offering the bank’s vital services as well. Accordingly, the bank would be pro-competitive and pro-consumer.
Ultimately, SoFi is pursuing the industrial bank charter to offer new and existing members the more complete product set that they seek. Such extension is natural to SoFi’s business and will deliver better product and services to existing and future SoFi members than are available in the market today. The bank will be run in a conservative fashion that will protect SoFi members, the bank and the FDIC in the most severe market environment.

For SoFi, it makes sense to add banking services like deposits, checking and savings accounts to its existing loan and wealth management products. While the company started out offering student loan financing to so-called HENRYs (high earners, not rich yet), it’s been gradually expanding its product offerings to claw deeper into customers’ financial lives.
Still, the company has a long way to go if it’s actually going to become a bank, and it’s facing an uphill battle. That’s because there haven’t been any new industrial loan company (ILC) charters approved in about a decade.
SoFi believes it has the necessary pieces in place to buck that trend. It is well-capitalized, with $1.9 billion raised since being founded in 2011. It’s profitable, at least according to SoFi CEO Cagney. And it recently acquired online banking startup Zenbanx, which Cagney told us last month will provide it the tech stack necessary to run banking operations, thus de-risking the SoFi Bank application.
More importantly, though, the Zenbanx acquisition brought former ING Direct founder, chairman, president and CEO Arkadi Kuhlmann onto its team. According to the FDIC application, Kuhlmann will serve as chairman and CEO of SoFi Bank, which will be a wholly owned subsidiary of the SoFi holding company.
Other proposed members of the SoFi Bank board include Cagney; Luther Helms, who would serve as Chair of Governance Committee; David Kirchheimer, Chair of Audit Committee; and Carl Snyder. SoFi CRO Tom Hugh is also listed as a proposed member of the SoFi Bank executive team.
In its application, SoFi says it will invest $4 million to fund bank organization expenses and $166 million to capitalize the bank in its first year of operations, which it believes will be sufficient to meet regulatory capital requirements. It will also contribute the assets it acquired from Zenbanx to the bank’s operations, according to the application.
Squeezable sides are a very bad reason to buy a phone. Especially now, when the U11’s Edge Sense doesn’t do a whole hell of a lot. Who knows, perhaps one day it will do much more than simply launching favorite apps. But even then, squeezable sides will be a very bad reason to buy a phone.
HTC has done itself a disservice banking on a goofy gimmick with its new flagship. The Edge Sense’s “new age of phone interactions” really buries the lede, as we say in the business.The U11 is a good and capable phone. A fact that embedded sensors in the phone’s frame have very little to do with.
Here is a list of things to like about it: lovely and unique design, the latest Snapdragon processor (835), a water-resistant body, a good camera and solid sound for a smartphone. It’s understandable that a company struggling the way HTC has of late might scramble to stand out from the crowd, but Edge Sense isn’t what’s going to do it.
Water under the bridge

By the time I met with HTC to discuss the U11 ahead of launch, the company had switch tacks slightly. Most of the ad material around the new phone still centers around Edge Sense, but when time comes for the company to actually talk about the phone itself, it smartly highlights the design. Granted, as my parents have unhelpfully told me time and again, looks aren’t everything. But they’re a driving force in many people’s phone buying designs.
And the U11 is a legit looker. I got compliments from jaded coworkers, which are better than just regular compliments, because they’re coming from angry people whose job it is to look at phones all day. HTC calls the design “Liquid Surface,” because, no joke, it looks like it was dipped in liquid. The company introduced the design on the U Ultra back in January — a handset the U11 more or less effectively renders redundant less than half a year after its release.
HTC achieved the standout look by covering both sides in glass — which comes with its own drawbacks. First are the fingerprints, which are sure to awaken any slumbering bit of OCD in your soul. They’re there and they’re not going away. Sorry. Second, and more importantly, it’s just not as strong as metal. Even Gorilla Glass (5 on the front and 3 on the back, owing to the scratch vs. shatter tradeoffs of each) isn’t insurance against a fall. For the clumsiest among us, the new look probably isn’t worth the potential tradeoff.
Even so, Liquid is going to be a sort of unified design language for the company moving forward. It’s curvy, it’s shiny and it’s a smart move, getting away from the busyness older phones like the One, while still retaining the familiar HTC shape. It’s like what Samsung and Apple do with their phones — creating a unified look that makes a brand instantly recognizable, regardless of model number. It’s a smart move and it’s a good look for HTC: minimalist, yet still recognizable.
Outsourced assistants

If I told you that Sense Companion is still kicking, you might rightfully respond, “great! Also, what is Sense Companion?” To which I would helpfully answer, “it’s basically HTC’s version of Bixby.” Which is to say, it’s an attempt at an in-house assistant that doesn’t actually assist that much.
Really, it’s more akin to an information hub that uses some contextual clues to serve content. Perhaps HTC never had grand plans for the assistant. Or maybe it’s just accepted the fact that few of its users are going to opt-in for Sense Companion over better made/more well-known alternatives. The company’s VP of product design told me recently, “We’ve never envisioned Companion as a wake word-type assistant,” which seems to imply that HTC knew its limitations from the outset. Whatever the case, its offering now exists more to augment what is an embarrassment of smart assistant riches.
In fact, HTC built the on-board mic system with other smart assistants in mind — namely Google Assistant and Alexa. There are four mics on-board here both for better audio recording and so it can reserve a mic apiece to always-on listening for those two assistants. Privacy concerns about that functionality aside (though there are plenty), points to HTC for knowing the limitations of its own assistant (take note, Samsung) and for giving users the option of two of the most popular assistants baked into the device (though Alexa functionality is still forthcoming).
If this means we won’t be getting a Sense Companion version of the Echo/Home/HomePod any time soon, well, that’s just a sacrifice we’ll have to make.
Sounding board

As ever, HTC gets points for seemingly being the only phone maker that cares about on-board audio. The U11 sounds a lot better than most of the phones out there, though part of the company’s drive toward Liquid minimalism means the front-facing speaker grilles are gone. Instead, music playback is reserved for the phone speaker and a small port on the bottom. It’s a step back in favor of aesthetics, but it’s still leagues ahead of the competition — though anything longer than a quick YouTube video is better left to a Bluetooth speaker.
On a related note, the company dropped the headphone jack on the Ultra earlier this year, and that’s still the case here. As a rep matter-of-factly told me earlier, “The headphone jack is going away. Let’s just get on with it.” Not the best justification for removing a once universal truth, but still probably accurate. You can’t stop the tides of change, you can only hope to upgrade all of your headphones.
What’s left adds up to a solid , if unexceptional flagship. At 5.5 inches, the display is on the larger side for HTC, with a bright and colorful quad HD resolution. The camera’s also quite good, in fact, it edged out the Google Pixel’s terrific 89 DXOMark score by a point. And HTC’s done a lot to bolster the experience like super fast autofocus and a combo electronic/optical stabilization system. And since it’s 2017, the front-facing camera also gets a healthy bump, boosting HDR speed and reducing image noise.
Feeling the squeeze

You can’t really blame HTC for leading with a gimmick. Like LG, the company’s been having a rough go of things lately, and it’s spent much of the last couple of years fumbling in the dark. A glut of cheap handsets have eaten into the company’s market share on the low-end, and things don’t seem much better on the flagship side where a handful of big players like Apple and Samsung have a tight lock on things.
Odds aren’t great that the U11 will do much to reverse those fortunes. You can build a solid handset, but when your standout feature doesn’t stand out, best of luck to you. It becomes all the more complicated when you lock yourself into US carrier exclusivity with the country’s fourth largest carrier (a lesson Essential is about to learn the hard way).
The U11 isn’t doomed to failure. There’s a lot to like here, from the unique design language, to the embrace of multiple smart assistants, to a quality camera experience. What it doesn’t add up to, however, is a stand-out device that presents a solid reason to buy this flagship over any other.
HTC’s struggling smartphone wing has dug itself a hole too deep to escape with just a good phone. It needs a big win to reverse its fortunes in the smartphone arena, and more than likely the U11 isn’t it — squeezable sides or no.
Whether or not it has new hardware, Sony always finds a way to surprise us at E3.
Expect loads of new games, and then there’s always the gold Playstation 4, which is on sale for $249 at the event. There’s a slight chance that Playstation will make a few price cuts to existing hardware, so keep an eye out for that.
We may see a few Playstation VR games, and there will likely be a bundle deal (with games and a camera) for those who haven’t taken the plunge on Playstation VR.
You can watch the whole live stream below, or on Twitch.
 

Watch live video from PlayStation on www.twitch.tv
Once your company gets to the point where you decide to move out of the comforting safety of a public cloud like AWS and set up your own infrastructure, things get rather complicated. You have to choose a data center (or two) and your network and exchange providers, for example, and chances are your team isn’t fully up to speed on how to buy these kinds of infrastructure services.
Inflect, which is launching in preview today, wants to make this whole process easier. The San Francisco-based company is targeting the kind of company that grew up in the public cloud and now needs to move at least some of its services to a private cloud, either because that’s cheaper or because it has very specialized needs. “One-size-fits-all solutions don’t work for the lucky few,” Inflect COO Charles Stewart told me. “And when they hit this inflection point in their growth, they have this rude surprise.”
Traditionally, data and telco are bought manually. You have to sift through lots of information, verify it, and then go through a very traditional sales process. This can be a major drag on productivity for a company’s infrastructure team.

The idea behind Inflect is to offer these companies a single, neutral tool that allows them to find the right solutions for them and connect them with the right infrastructure providers.
Stewart stressed the fact that Inflect wants to be neutral. The service, which aggregates its data from a wide variety of sources, wants to help its users make informed decisions but leaves those decisions up to its users. Indeed, the service itself is free for the time being, though the plan is to monetize it by allowing buyers to directly buy these services on its platform in the future.
All of this seems like such a straightforward proposition that it’s surprising that this isn’t a solved problem yet. The team argues that the main barrier to entry here is acquiring all the data from service providers who often don’t even have an easy way to access this data themselves. If they have it, the service providers are often hesitant to give this data out to and unless there is a service at the other end, there’s no motivation for them to even make this data available programmatically through an API (which is something Inflect hopes to change). The Inflect team already had very strong ties to the telco industry, which probably helped it to get data that others weren’t necessarily able to get. In addition, it’s also using data from PeeringDB.
For now, Inflect focuses on companies that are coming from Amazon’s AWS platform and want to augment that with their own servers (and who need to have fast connections back to AWS). Over time, the team will add support for other platforms as well. Users can upload information about their existing infrastructure to Inflect, tag it and the service can then map other solutions on top of this.
So far, the Inflect team has raised $2 million in seed money. The plan is to use this to launch the service into general availability by the end of the third quarter of this year and then raise more money to expand its service.


 Thomas Trutschel/Getty Images
There are a lot of headlines today about tech getting a slap in the face on Wall Street — particularly Apple which is down more than 3%. These guys are actually down only a few percentage points but for the largest companies in the world, that translates to billions of dollars.
But while we wring our hands around a bit of a sell-off today in some of the largest companies in the world, here’s a not-so-subtle reminder that there’s at least another company that’s decided to go on a rapid rise in the past two years:

That’s Nvidia, a stock that might as well be in the FANG acronym at this point as a major growth stock (that’s Facebook, Amazon, Netflix and Google). Nvidia’s been on a complete tear in the past couple months (and the past few years) thanks to its major presence of the market for GPU technology, which stumbled into a critical component of machine learning technology. Instead of normal CPUs, Nvidia’s windfall has been the wild demand for technology that can support emerging products like self-driving cars, image recognition and natural language processing.
Not surprisingly, Nvidia’s income more than doubled year-over-year when the company last reported its financial guts in May. Major car companies looking to power their self-driving efforts are going to need this kind of hardware. The larger companies like Google are working on their own kinds of hardware to power machine learning, but Nvidia for now can at least enjoy a head start and power the rest of the world for now.
Let’s also wind the clock back just a little further to two years:

Nvidia’s not down today, either — it’s flat. And here’s what it looks like since CES, which it held a massive keynote that included everything from self-driving cars to a demo of the wildly mediocrely-received Mass Effect: Andromeda. The Nintendo Switch also came out during this period, which you still probably can’t find a place to purchase right now:

Nvidia was more or less the star of CES amid a flurry of pressure on companies to start deploying increasingly complex machine learning algorithms. While there will still be plenty of demand for better gaming technology, nearly every major company in the world will be in a race against the other to show they have some kind of competitive edge — either in a voice assistant or a startup looking to power some new kind of technology with a massive pile of data.
For the sake of the rest of things, here’s Facebook in the last two years:

Anyway, happy lame stock day folks. Not everything is awful. Onwards and upwards.
(Charts via Yahoo Finance)
Back in 2015, Microsoft launched a highly visual Power BI data exploration and interactive reporting tool into general availability. The service is now in active use at 200,000 different organizations and the team has shipped 400 updates and new features over the course of the last two years. Current users span a wide gamut and include the likes of the Seattle Seahawks, CA Technologies, Heathrow Airport and local Seattle TV station King 5. For the second time since the launch of Power BI, Microsoft is hosting a user conference for the product, which is taking place in Seattle this week.
“We are seeing uptake being exponentially in nature,” Microsoft general manager for Power BI Kamal Hathi told me ahead of this week’s event, which attracted over 2,500 Power BI users. “It’s growing at a rapid pace — not just in terms of people buying it but also in deep engaged usage.” Hathi also stressed that the team looks very closely at the feedback it gets from this community, something all of the presenters at today’s keynote also noted.
Maybe the most important product announcement of today’s event is the general availability of Power BI Premium after a month-long beta period. The idea behind this Premium edition of the service is to give enterprises a reserved set of resources (instead of the shared cloud capacity that other Power BI versions run on). Because of this, the Premium version doesn’t have some of the size limits for data models of the other versions. What’s maybe even more important, though, is that this dedicated capacity also means that these users can now publish and share their content (typically in the form of dashboards) with their users inside and outside of the company without having to buy additional licenses. Premium also allows companies to refresh their data 48 times per day (though it seems at least some attendees at today’s event were hoping for far more frequent refreshes).
Different organizations do have different needs, of course, so Premium itself comes in three different versions, depending on how much dedicated capacity a company needs. In addition, Power BI Premium features a Report Server that can run on-premises. Combined with Power BI’s custom visualizations (which take a bit of work to set up), companies are already able to take this data way beyond the usual pivot tables and bar charts and fully make it their own — and now they can easily disseminate these within their companies, too, without having to worry about paying for every individual user.
Developers can also now integrate the service into their apps by using Power BI Embedded, though the price for this starts at $625 per month.
Looking ahead, the Power BI team today demoed a number of new capabilities for Power BI that will launch within the next three months or so. Unsurprisingly, the most interesting of these will make use of Microsoft’s machine learning features. Soon, budding data analysts will be able to ask Power BI for possible explanations for why a certain number trended up or down, for example, and the service will look at all of the different data dimensions and present a number of possible explanations, together with a graphical analysis.
Other upcoming new features include the ability to run basic what-if scenarios, make data in spreadsheets more visual with the help of data bars and take diagrams from Visio and map them to Power BI values. The team is also working on allowing users to drill into their data with the help of an intelligent chatbot, as well as deeper integrations with Microsoft’s Cortana virtual assistant in Windows 10.
One of the most compelling of the smaller new features that are coming soon is the ability to bookmark pages in Power BI. That may sound like a rather random little feature, but you can also string these bookmarks together to tell a story without having to export these pages to PowerPoint first.
Beyond the individual features, though, what this all comes down to is that users now have more — and more flexible — ways of analyzing the daily torrent of data that most companies now generate without having to be trained data analysts. The goal of Power BI is to democratize data analysis and make it available to anybody in a company. With the new Premium version, it’s now easier to disseminate all of this information across a company, even if the data has to stay behind a company firewall.
Drone Racing League has closed on $20M in Series B funding, led by U.K telecommunications company Sky, Liberty Media Corporation (which owns the Formula 1 racing brand) and Lux Capital.
This new funding means that the league has now raised over $32M in three rounds. Allianz (who is also the title sponsor of DRL) and World Wrestling Entertainment also joined the round as new investors in the startup.
As a refresher, Drone Racing League was founded in 2015 to capitalize on the trend of amateur drone racing – and is now by far the most established player in the space. Last season over 75 million fans tuned in to watch DRL races, either online or on TV via their broadcast agreement with networks like ESPN.
While the new funding is certainly a benefit to the young startup, Nicholas Horbaczewski, founder and CEO of DRL emphasized that the funding round materialized as a result of wanting to work strategically with some of the investors.
For example, Liberty Media is deeply entrenched in the world of sports entertainment and broadcasting – they have a stake in Live Nation, Sirius XM, and the Atlanta Braves. The group also just purchased Formula 1, the popular international car racing league. While DRL didn’t have anything specific to announce today, DRL and Formula 1 have such similar business models it’s not difficult to see a future where the two work together strategically on at least some level.
DRL’s 2017 season starts on June 20th and besides being broadcast on ESPN will be shown on SKY Sports, DisneyXD and other networks that will give the league distribution in over 75 countries, up from the 40 countries where DRL aired in last season.
The races aren’t broadcast live, which Horbaczewski explained was actually a benefit for the young league. By broadcasting races at a later date and time DRL can make sure that its content airs at times convenient for users in different time zones. Also, the league can be sure to schedule strategically so they won’t get bumped by a bigger sporting event airing on its partner channels like ESPN and Sky.
That being said, all races are essentially filmed live to tape, so the league will be ready to go when the sport eventually gains enough momentum to support a shift to live broadcasts.
Virtual reality might be a bit too expensive for home use to take off right now, but for consumers going to dedicated retail spaces to experience it there has to be an added something to make it worth their while.
In its quest to build location-based retail experiences that users can physically feel, Nomadic has had to get its hands on some capital. The company announced today that it has closed a $6 million round of seed funding led by Horizons Ventures. Presence Capital, Maveron, Vulcan Capital, and Verus International also participated in the round.
The company’s technology allows users to don VR headsets and PC backpacks and freely roam around a modular play space that is mapped to a gaming experience. When a user sees a chair in VR they can sit in it in the real world, while physical objects can be picked up in-game thanks to infrared markers and cameras. The whole experience is a more purposeful rebake of the kitschy 4D cinema experiences of the 90s, enabling virtual reality to grow more immersive thanks to tactile feedback in physical spaces.
I had a chance to venture through one of the experience myself, which you can read more about here: “Nomadic wants to bring VR you can feel to your local movie theater”
The startup isn’t the lone wolf in this category of location-based VR experience, but while competitors like The Void are focused on establishing dedicated VR warehouse spaces for projects like their NYC Ghostbusters experience, Nomadic’s aims are set more on getting into existing retail spaces through hocking a modular setup that will allow for easy installations and conversions.
Nomadic is looking at spaces like “cinemas, malls, resorts, airports, casinos, theme parks” and others to implement their immersive entertainment tech. While the startup hasn’t shared any details regarding partnership yet, it has been detailed that the launch of its first location-based experiences should take place in the first quarter of 2018.
A new comScore study out today has taken a deeper look at the behavior of cord cutters here in the U.S., in order better understand how this growing demographic differs from pay TV subscribers, as well as what factors may have influenced their decision to leave cable TV behind. According to the report, cord cutters tend to be lower- to middle-income, and – despite spending more time on streaming services than the average viewer – they watch far less television than your typical pay TV customer.
What’s notable about the comScore study is that it’s based on behavioral data, rather than relying on people’s own self-reporting, like many of the cord cutter studies release prior to today. Simply put, that means this study measured what cord cutters actually did, rather than what they say they did.
ComScore says it came to its conclusions after analyzing over-the-top viewing data in the month of March, 2017 for around 870 cord-cutting homes in its 12,500+ household panel.
 

Some of the results are not all that surprising.
For example, cord cutters watch a lot more over-the-top content – that is, streaming video that’s available without a cable or satellite TV subscription. In fact, comScore found they spend 79 hours per month (2.5 hours per day) viewing over-the-top content, compared with the U.S. average of 49 hours per month. That’s 60 percent more than average – a figure that may lead you to think that cord cutters are actually heavy consumers of TV and video.
But that’s not actually the case, as it turns out. Traditional TV viewers in the U.S. watched 225 hours of television during the month of March. Even with 79 hours of streaming video watched per month, today’s cord cutters are watching far less total TV than the average viewer.
ComScore suggest that a decreased appetite for television may have contributed to their decision to cut the cord in the first place. That would make sense, given that there are only so many hours in the day for people to spend on entertainment. And over the years, the rise of the internet – with its social networking sites and video sharing networks – along with the rise of mobile phones, with their numerous apps and games, have contributed to TV’s declining viewership.
For example, back in September, 2015, analytics firm Flurry found that U.S. consumers had begun to spend more time using apps than watching television. Meanwhile, a number of studies over the years have found that younger consumers are generally less interested in watching TV, favoring online video services instead.
When cord cutters do want to watch TV or other over-the-top content, they turn to online services like Netflix, YouTube, Amazon Video and Hulu, says comScore. And without pay TV competing for their time, they spend more hours per month on these sites.
Cord cutters spend 41 percent more time on Netflix, 47 percent more time on YouTube, 45 percent more time on Amazon Video, and 13 percent more time on Hulu, compared to the average over-the-top viewer.

Also not surprisingly, they’re more likely to own a streaming box or stick, which are in 71 percent of cord cutters homes, compared with only 59 percent of all Wi-Fi homes where over-the-top viewing takes place. And they’re also slightly less likely to use connected TV and gaming consoles than average, which hints that they seek out streaming-first devices when choosing to cut the cord says comScore.
One of the more interesting – though not entirely shocking – findings from comScore’s report touches on the household income for cord cutters. It finds that cord cutters are likely to be lower to middle income. They’re more likely to have annual incomes of $75,000 or less, and the lower the income, the more likely they are to have cut the cord.
Those least likely to have cut the cord are homes with household incomes between $75,000 and $150,000. Meanwhile, homes with less than $40,000 in annual income are 20 percent more likely to have cut the cord.
Or, another way of putting it is that people who don’t see cable TV as an unbearable expense are probably still paying for it.
But these figures do suggest that – for now at least – cord cutting is about saving money just as much as it is about a cultural shift in how people want to watch TV. That could signal a challenge ahead for the newer, live TV services – like Hulu’s live TV option, Sling TV, DirecTV Now, PlayStation Vue, and YouTube TV.
When you start looking at the higher tiers on these platforms – the ones including all the add-ons like cloud DVRs or more simultaneous streams, or larger channel lineups – you’ll find that they cost as much as some pay TV subscriptions.


this feels sorta like signing up for cable all over again pic.twitter.com/E00nJR9nJw
— Sarah Perez (@sarahintampa) May 5, 2017



If cord cutters are looking for cost savings, then these services will need to better compete by having attractive packages at their lower end. (They can later try to sucker upgrade customers to join their pricier, cable TV-like plans.)
Uber has confirmed that Emil Michael, one the company’s top executives, has left the company.
Earlier today Michael sent an internal email to staff that he would be leaving the ride-hailing company, according to a report from Recode.
Michael, who served as the company’s senior vice president of business, has long been a controversial figure outside of the company (he was the executive who suggested that Uber could and should perform opposition research on journalists).
His departure was reported to be one of the recommendations that was set before Uber’s board of directors in an all day meeting at the offices of the company’s law firm in Los Angeles over the weekend.
The Uber board unanimously agreed to adopt all of the recommendations contained in the report, which was the culmination of an internal investigation into alleged misconduct supervised by former U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder and his legal partner Tammy Albarrán.
The controversy that has swirled around Uber since Susan Fowler published a blog post detailing systemic sexual misconduct at the company has already claimed a number of staff members.
The company had no further comment.

 Chris Goodney/Bloomberg via Getty Images
E3 is well underway, and Ubisoft is gearing up to share what they’ve been toiling over all year.
The Ubisoft E3 press conference comes to us live at 1pm PT, and you can watch the whole thing on Twitch or in the embed below.
Look out for Far Cry 5, Assassin’s Creed: Origins, an update to that South Park game we heard about last year, and the long-awaited Mario + Rabbids crossover.
 



 The Community/Flickr UNDER A CC BY 2.0 LICENSE
In case you missed the reveal of the Xbox One X, we have a recap for you that should inform you on all that you need to know about the console.
We’ll be hitting you with initial impressions later in the day, once we’ve gotten the chance to go hands-on with the hardware and some of the games.
If there is any indication of the cultural import and effect of the “millennials” – a term I dislike for reasons I will explain later – look no further than America’s malls. The Baby Boomer hubris and NIMBYism that sent malls into further and further orbits from city centers has come home to roost and it promises to change the face of retail in a big way.
First, some statistics. I point to Columbus, Ohio because it’s where I’m from and I have plenty of data points. First, Sears is pulling out of two of Columbus’ once-mighty malls, Eastland and Westland. These “directional malls,” built between 1964 and 1969, were once the jewels of the city. Far enough from downtown commerce they let suburbanites stock up at any of their many anchor stores – J.C.Penney, Sears, K-Mart – and then eat at a fast casual spot like Red Lobster and, later, Outback. This self-contained world further became the locus for youth culture in the suburbs – a place to hang out that wasn’t outside – and, ultimately, became a symbol of a failed way of life.
These mall suburbs are now magnets for the poor. Two forces are at work here. First, young people are moving back into the city center resulting in a rise in housing prices and the closure of many rent-stabilized buildings in the once-moribund Downtown area. Further, subsidized housing has ground in districts around – you guessed it – the old malls.
From the Dispatch:

￼Seven of the 16 ZIP codes within Columbus’ pre-1950 boundaries have lost subsidized households since 1994, according to housing authority data. Meanwhile, 33 of the remaining 35 ZIP codes in Franklin County have gained households using rent vouchers. That includes large gains in the three ZIP codes near Westland Mall (43228), the old Northland Mall site (43229) and Eastland Mall (43232).

And don’t think fast food is safe. The old slop is rapidly aging, as Bob Dylan once wrote. To wit: the CEO of Buffalo Wild Wings – a chain that started in Columbus, Ohio as Buffalo Wings & Weck (BW3) and, in my gastronomic opinion, has since gone far downhill – said that lack of interest in casual dining joints like BWW and Applebee’s is slowly forcing a further contraction.
“Casual-dining restaurants face a uniquely challenging market today,” current CEO Sally Smith wrote in a letter to shareholders. “Millennial consumers are more attracted than their elders to cooking at home, ordering delivery from restaurants and eating quickly, in fast-casual or quick-serve restaurants. Mall traffic has slowed. And, surprisingly, television viewership of sporting events (important for us, especially) is down.”
In short, the rate of store closures is expected to double in 2017, a worrying trend for those who want cheap, bad food in a sterile, marble-clad environment prominently featuring plastic trees.


Mary Meeker on retail store closings. 2017 will be 2x the average. pic.twitter.com/wCEakM6KMc
— web smith (@web) May 31, 2017



Smith blames millennials. I blame Smith. As has been pointed out many times – most recently in Generation of Sociopaths that the demographics, the policies, and the preferences of the Baby Boomers rode a wave of absolute financial success from the nadir of World War II into the golden 1960s. The habits laid down in those years – the desire for cheap, fast food, the screen as babysitter, the penchant to trade the nameless (but often racist) anxiety of the city for a suburban lawn – defined the rise of fast commerce and will define its fall.
In short, technology has made us not want to go to the mall by bringing everything – from food to clothing to toilet paper – to our homes. But what comes next? Our species will never survive if it sits on the couch all day eating take-out from Seamless, streaming Netflix, and ordering from Amazon. Small town Main Streets have already been gutted by malls and there is little hope that Old Man Jenkins’ Five and Dime is opening back up. So what comes next?
I would point to something like The Stanley Marketplace near Denver as an example of the future. The Stanley is a repurposed airline hangar that has been converted into a mall and event space. There is a massive area for parties and concerts on one side of the “mall” – think of it as the anchor tenant – and the rest of the place is full of restaurants and small, community-minded businesses. You won’t find Baby Gap but you will find a doula and organic diapers.
The same sort of eat/work space has opened in Sunset Park, Brooklyn in buildings that once housed decapitated mannequins and decommissioned bubble gum manufacturing machines. Industry City popped up in the old Bazooka Joe gum factory and is now home to startups and some of the best smoked meats this side of Montreal. The entire place is also the winter home to Smorgasburg, an indoor market featuring antiques and food.
This is happened again and again all over the world. The old ways of life – before malls displaced them – are coming back to the fore. By creating a space – a market – that sells more than cheap clothing at the Gap and Iron Maiden posters and Spencer’s you get something more. These new spaces inspire further growth by encouraging communities with shuttered buildings to rethink their purpose. Sears will never come back but a good burger place next to a Crossfit box can exist for decades.
There is no reason to put commodity merchandise into a building and sell it to passers-by. Commodities are available at a moment’s notice. What we want now are nice, comfortable places in which to live and work. The future isn’t K-Mart. It’s coffee and croissants eaten at a leisurely pace inside an inclusive place full of light, good food, and the future. Malls, for their part, hold none of that.
London’s Mayor Sadiq Khan has announced a clean tech incubator aimed at sparking a new startup cluster in the UK capital focused on helping to foster the development of low-carbon and clean-tech products which are aimed at tackling the causes and effects of climate change.
Among the issues the mayor wants London-based businesses to contribute ideas and ingenuity towards improving include air pollution, housing and the future of transport.
London’s air quality has been generating bad headlines for years — and tackling pollution is an area Khan has pledged to prioritize as mayor.


The shameful state of London’s toxic air today has triggered a ‘very high’ air pollution alert under my new air quality warning system. pic.twitter.com/cjHmNaAsnB
— Mayor of London (@MayorofLondon) January 23, 2017



“The potential for cutting-edge technology to tackle a host of social, economic and environmental challenges is immeasurable. From air pollution and climate change to housing and transport, new technologies and data science will be at the heart of the long-term solutions to urban challenges,” said Khan in a statement today.
The £1.6M incubator, which is being called Better Futures and is part-funded by the European Regional Development Fund, will support 100 London-based clean tech small businesses, including with leadership and management support, access to co-working space and business support in areas such as marketing, supply chain and product development.
Some of the startups will also be offered research collaboration — with Imperial College London being one of the partner organizations for the initiative, via its Centre for Cleantech Innovation, which aims to support the development of a new economy based on low-carbon and resilient businesses.
Sustainable business incubator, Sustainable Bridges, is another partner of the project.
It’s not yet clear when the incubator will begin accepting applications from startups, nor over what time period the money will be portioned out to successful applicants. We’ve reached out with questions and will update this post with any response.
Startups interested in applying for the Better Futures incubator can register their interest here.
As well as seeking to spark clean tech startup activity directly, the Better Futures project will also target enterprises with support for 50 to develop innovations that have the potential to save green-house gas emissions, and support for 25 enterprises to design, develop and introduce new products to the firm — with up to 10 “new innovations” set to be trialled as part of the program.

 Stròlic Furlàn - Davide Gabino/Flickr UNDER A CC BY-ND 2.0 LICENSE
To beat Facebook and Google’s duopoly, Snapchat needs advertisers to build and buy campaigns with confidence. So today it’s announcing the Snap Publisher tool for building vertical video creative, it’s rolling out its self-serve Ad Manager, and its launching a Snapchat Certified Partners program to connect advertisers to trained third-party ad tech tool providers.
Together, these will make it easier for advertisers to handle their own campaigns start to finish, or have their hands held.
Snap needs to attract more spend from advertisers after it disappointed Wall Street in its first earnings report last month where it revealed $149.6 million in revenue compared to the $158 million expectations. Losses also mounted to $2.2 billion in Q1, up from $104 million a year earlier, which looked bad even without the $2 billion in stock compensation it paid out.

Snap must do everything it can to get its business growing, especially since user growth has plummetted since Facebook started heavily competing for the Stories format. So it’s running some of Facebook’s ad tech playbook, which is learned from employees it poached like former revenue product manager Sriram Krishnan who Snap poached from Facebook.
That means embracing all types of advertisers, making its proprietary ad units less difficult to design for, and pointing clients to ad tech experts who can assist them for a fee.
Ad Manager
Snapchat announced its self-serve Ad Manage last month and today it officially becomes available. It lets clients buy, manage, optimize, and view analytics about campaigns pay via US credit card rather than credit line, spend as little as they want with no minimum, buy via auction with prices set by the market, utilize all of Snapchat’s ad formats and targeting capabilities, manage ad creative assets within the tool, and have ads reviewed by Snap for quality before they appear.
Advertisers can also use the Mobile Dashboard to track campaigns on the go, and the Business Manager to set up billing and access levels for team members, plus Business Help Center and chat support for when they have trouble. To get started, advertisers just need to fill out this form.

Snap Publisher
Instead of having to use expensive video software to generate campaigns for Snapchat’s unique vertical video format, in July advertisers will be able to use the Snap Publisher tool. This browser-based tool imports existing brand assets, trims horizontal videos for the vertical format, offers Snap-provided ad templates for different objectives, adds motion to static photos, A/B test different ad variants for performance, and lets advertisers buy through the Ad Manager with one click.
This tool could significantly reduce the headache of converting other assets like TV or YouTube commercials into Snap ads. Combined with the ad manager, this could reduce friction enough to get smaller businesses paying Snapchat instead of just big brands with huge teams.

Snapchat Certified Partners
Snapchat’s Ads API allows a wide range of ad tech companies to buy tools for optimizing Snapchat ads. But with the new Certified Partners program, its given extra training to a select set of its top ad tech partners and will favor them when referring clients. Certified Partners include SocialCode, Adaptly, Unified, and Hyfn. This mimics Facebook’s various past partner certification programs like the Strategic Preferred Marketing Developer distinction.
Meanwhile, rather than try to build specific adtech functionality for every conceivable use case, Snapchat is expanding its standard partner program by adding 25 new partners including Resolution Media, Booyah Advertising, and PMG Worldwide.
If Snapchat can use these tools to make buyings its ads simpler and prove they drive return on investment, it could harness the avalanche of ad spend spilling over from television to digital. The company must rely on its highly engaging full-screen format and unique reach to western teens to convince businesses it’s a must-have part of their ad mix.
Snap has a lot of catching up to do to compete with Facebook and Google’s well-honed ad offerings. But if it can fend off Instagram’s copycat assault and stay looking “cool”, brands may be willing to experiment on the upstart social app.
The U.S. banking industry’s answer to Venmo has now arrived. Starting this month, a new, person-to-person payments network called Zelle will roll out to the over 86 million mobile banking customers here in the U.S., promising a faster form of digital payments compared with apps like PayPal, Venmo, Square Cash, and others. Instead of transfers taking place overnight or after a couple of days, Zelle users can move funds from one bank to another in a matter of minutes.
While banks have always had the means to offer instant transfers, the current system required that customers have the account and routing numbers for the associated accounts. Zelle, meanwhile, is meant to offer a simpler method – like today’s popular payment apps, Zelle users only have to know information like a person’s phone number or email.
The service has been in the works since 2011, when Bank of America, Wells Fargo and JPMorgan Chase teamed up to work on a digital payments solution that would allow their customers to send money to each other through a join venture then called clearXchange.
But the consortium dragged its feet in terms of adding more partners over the years that followed. However, it last year saw some renewed vigor. ClearXchange rebranded to become the more consumer-friendly “Zelle” last summer. Then, in October, the bank-owned entity Early Warning – which has been running clearXchange for several years – announced that Zelle then had 19 U.S. financial institutions on board, and promised a Zelle launch in early 2017.
Zelle missed that launch time frame by a bit, but it’s finally shipping.
According to an announcement from Early Warning released this morning, Zelle will begin rolling out to partner institutions starting this week, and that will continue over the course of the next 12 months. Instead of being a standalone mobile app, like Venmo, Zelle instead will initially become available within the mobile banking apps of the participating financial institutions.
This list of supported banks includes the following (in alphabetic order): Ally Bank, Bank of America, Bank of Hawaii, Bank of the West, BB&T, BECU, Capital One, Citi, Citizens Bank, Comerica Bank, ConnectOne Bank, Dollar Bank, Fifth Third Bank, FirstBank, First Tech Federal Credit Union, First Tennessee Bank, First National Bank, Frederick County Bank, Frost Bank, HomeStreet Bank, JP Morgan Chase, KeyBank, M&T Bank, MB Financial Bank, Morgan Stanley, PNC Bank, SchoolsFirst Federal Credit Union, Star One Credit Union, SunTrust Bank, TD Bank, USAA, U.S. Bank, and Wells Fargo.
To make the system work, Early Warning also has strategic partnerships with top payment processors in the banking industry, including CO-OP Financial Services , FIS, Fiserv, and Jack Henry and Associates. These agreements, it says, will help to expand Zelle to community banks and credit unions going forward.
Some U.S. banks had already been using the clearXchange Network, which is the foundation for Zelle. In Q1 2017, over 51 million transactions flowed through this network, totalling over $16 billion. And in 2016, the network had supported $55 billion in P2P transactions, says Early Warning. That’s far larger than Venmo, which recently reported $6.8 billion in total payments volume in its last quarter.
With Zelle, the goal is to take the existing clearXchange network and make it known to consumers, who – as with Venmo – will only need to know a person’s phone or email to use it. Like Venmo, Zelle is meant for the same sort of quick, personal payments – like splitting the dinner bill with friends or roommates collecting utility and rent money from one another.
“Fragmentation has been frustrating for consumers. Inconsistent experiences, have made it difficult to send and receive money between banks,” said Paul Finch, Chief Executive Officer, Early Warning Services, in a statement about Zelle’s launch. “Zelle unites the financial community behind a single, real-time P2P payments experience for millions of consumers,” he adds.
“Together, we are removing friction from finance, allowing money to move seamlessly between accounts in minutes. This revolution in money movement will create for consumers a viable alternative to checks and cash.”
Zelle will work on bank’s websites and in their apps. After the sender provides the email or phone number and amount, the recipient gets a notification that explains how they can can complete the payment. The money will then be available minutes later. A Zelle app will arrive at a later point, but Early Warning declined to say when beyond “the coming months.”
Consumers are being advised to check with their bank for details on when Zelle will work at their bank, as the rollout varies between the different institutions.
It’s a bit short notice but I’ll be in Columbus this week and I’d love to meet you all on Thursday at 5pm at the Wolf’s Ridge Tap Room. You can RSVP here. There is limited space so please pick up a ticket early.
We’ll have a quick pitch-off in preparation for Disrupt SF and 10 companies will have 90 seconds to pitch and then have a few minutes of questions from some cool judges. We’ll have some beers etc. and if you’d like to sponsor a round let me know at john@techcrunch.com.
To submit your startup click here.
See you in Ohio!
Google this morning is rolling out a notable update for its smart keyboard app, Gboard, which introduces a number of new features aimed at helping you communicate more quickly, while typing less. In the latest release, Google is improving typing quality via machine intelligence, which is an under-the-hood update that will impact its ability to make suggestions and correct mistakes. To end users, these changes will be visible through a new feature that will suggest phrases, instead of just words.
The new app will also let you draw an emoji on the screen to add it to your conversation, as well as introduce updated Search cards.
The draw-an-emoji feature seems like it will be a more fun than it is practical, but it’s still an interesting experiment in trying to make the texting experience easier. Now, you’ll be able to tap on the emoji handwriting button to draw an emoji right on your screen, says Google. Gboard will then automatically recognize this drawing and show results that match the emoji in question. How well this will work for emojis outside the simpler ones, like a happy or sad face, remains to be seen.

But in the example Google shows today, a crude drawing of a face with pointed ears returns emoji search results for things like cat faces, the devil, the dancing girls (wearing bunny ears), and others. What’s also interesting is that the search results continually refresh as you draw more parts to the emoji – it doesn’t wait for a finished masterpiece to return options. And even with the first scribble of a circle, the screen is already making suggestions of emojis with a basic, round shape.
This isn’t Google’s first attempt at simplifying emoji usage in Gboard. The app already supports an emoji search feature that lets you type in the emoji’s name or expression/sentiment you need (e.g. “smiling”), instead of having to browse to find the right one.
And Google has for a long time experimented with drawing on the screen as an alternative to typing. Even back in 2010, the company was monkeying around with “Gesture Search” in Android, which let you draw letters on your phone’s screen to surface things like contacts, bookmarks, apps, and music.
Meanwhile, Google’s ability to recognize drawings has more recently been improved. In April, it launched AutoDraw which turns your squiggles and doodles into more professional drawings of shapes and other objects.
Though draw-an-emoji may be fun to try and occasionally use, Gboard’s phrase suggestion feature will likely be more useful day-to-day.

Now, in addition to making word suggestions as you type as most modern keyboards do, Gboard will suggest phrases. For example, if you type “looking forward,” Gboard will suggest “to seeing” or “to it” as you type. Gboard is able to make these smart suggestions through its use of machine intelligence – it knows what words occur in a language, and which words are likely to follow other words, so it can guess what you’ll say next.
This will be available starting today in English, but Google says other languages will be supported soon.
Searching in Gboard is also being improved with this update, as the app will now offer multiple results for you to browse through when running searches from the keyboard. The search cards will be more interactive, too. When you click on a card, you click through to go to Maps, call a business, or watch a YouTube video.
The updated app also now supports over 200 languages, with suggestions and gesture typing rolling out to Azerbaijani (Iran), Dhivehi, French (Belgium), Hawaiian, Maori, and Samoan; while simpler keyboards will be available in Dzongkha, Ewe, Navajo, Tsonga, and K’iche’.
The changes are arriving first on Android, in the new app updated today.
Maria Giudice is the VP of design at Autodesk. In our 18th episode, she shares how artists can become CEOs, explains what a design executive officer (DEO) is and discusses the skills designers can develop today to help them become the leaders of the future.
Giudice explains the stark contrasts between CEOs and DEOs, saying the mission of a CEO is to maximize investment for shareholders, while the mission of a DEO tends to be more centralized around the idea of providing purpose and solving the needs of people. “DEOs put a creative lens on how and why they run their businesses.”
Starting a business doesn’t have to be a scary process. In fact, according to Giudice, a dirty little secret of starting businesses is that most people don’t realize they’ve started a business until they look back in hindsight. She says you “have to love what you’re doing every day.” If you aren’t, change things up. Don’t get stuck in a rut.
Jared Erondu and Bobby Ghoshal are the hosts of High Resolution. This post and episode notes were put together by freelance writer, Gannon Burgett. Watch for High Resolution episodes to drop every Monday on TechCrunch at 8 a.m. PT. You can also listen on iTunes and Overcast.
Digital pharmacy startup ScriptDash is getting a new name today, along with $23 million in Series B financing. The startup will now go by Alto to reflect its intention to go beyond just delivery.
“Alto’s latin root means ‘elevated’ or ‘tall’ and we’re trying to elevate the pharmacy experience,” co-founder Mattieu Gamache-Asselin said.
Alto so far has delivered more than 100,000 prescriptions to 12,000 patients living in the San Francisco Bay Area since launching in June of 2015. The startup now aims to offer doctors and clinics an easier backend system to fill those prescriptions.
“Doctors and technicians call each other day in and day out trying to coordinate something but they need a technology platform,” Gamache-Asselin explained over the phone.

Of course, Alto isn’t the first trying to solve the communications issues for doctors and pharmacies. ZappRX, a Boston-based startup in the same space, started out with a mobile solution to an archaic fulfillment infrastructure still pervasive within the modern pharmacy;  Capsule is a drug delivery startup out of New York working to modernize prescription fulfillment and Zipdrug is another that comes at it as a sort of Postmates for prescription delivery.
Each have their strengths and tackle the issue in different ways.  However, Alto’s course of action is to modernize on the backend and onboard providers to use the startup’s new pharmacy communications platform.
Alto’s latin root means ‘elevated’ or ‘tall’ and we’re trying to elevate the pharmacy experience.— Mattieu Gamache-Asselin, Alto CEO and co-founder
That move could likely boost Alto’s sales going forward. Prescription refills is a very small percentage of the pharmacy biz, according to Alto co-founder Vlad Blumen. He says walk-ins and postdated prescriptions are where we see the most action. So, if Alto is to grow, it needs to rely more on the doctors sending new or infrequent prescriptions through the system to fulfill orders. With that in mind, it makes sense for the company to build a backend terminal to fulfill orders rather than focus just on prescription delivery.
Alto is also pushing beyond the Bay Area for a nationwide rollout with the new capital. Most of its competitors have focused on certain cities and areas so it will be interesting to see how Alto fares with such a large expansion.
Greenoaks Capital led the round, with participation from Jackson Square Ventures, Rahul Mehta of DST, Craig Sherman from Meritech Capital, Justin Kan from Y Combinator and Twitch, and his brother Daniel Kan, Cruise COO.
Quarterly started in 2011 as a highbrow subscription box service, with boxes (delivered every three months, as its name suggests) curated by celebrities like Neil deGrasse Tyson, Pharrell Williams, and Gretchen Rubin. Now the company wants to take its brand philosophy further with a new literary subscription service called PageHabit. Every month, PageHabit’s subscribers will get a new hardcover release with annotations by its author and other book-related items.
Quarterly, which has sent boxes to more than 100,000 subscribers, recently acquired book subscription club BooklyBox to build PageHabit, and will first offer the service in six genres: literary fiction, young adult, fantasy, romance, historical fiction, and mystery.
CEO James Hicks said Quarterly’s team realized over the past five years that celebrity-curated boxes are challenging to scale up because it is hard to continue adding new celebrities and managing relationships. After launching a literary-themed box about a year and a half ago, however, they saw that giving readers a behind-the-scenes peek into the writing process resonated with subscribers, so Quarterly decided to use that as a starting point for its next step.
To create an immersive experience, PageHabit asks authors to prepare a handwritten letter and about 20 to 30 annotations on Post-It notes, which it reproduces and sticks inside books for an immersive experience. Subscribers also get access to digital content, like streaming author interviews. A portion of the $29.99 monthly subscription fee will be donated to Books for Africa, which supports literacy programs and libraries in African countries.
Even though digital books were supposed to herald the demise of physical books, paper continues to hold a strong allure, with sales of physical books growing in the U.S. and the U.K. even as sales of e-readers and digital books fell dramatically last year. This is partly due to reader preference, but also because books have become a status symbol: a physical book or shelf packed with volumes is much more visually appealing than a Kindle.

PageHabit taps into the fact that book lovers often want to show off what they have read. Its editorial team works with a panel of influencers, or people who have popular YouTube and Instagram accounts about books, to go through publishers’ catalogs and pick promising new releases. It also listens to feedback from followers on its Facebook page to decide what genres to add next (Hicks says these may include horror and non-fiction like biographies, memoirs, and business books).
“A subscription service, if you do it right, is a really nice surprise every month. If someone can understand the kind of literature that fits, it’s an amazing thing for customers to discover what book to read next,” says Hicks. “In terms of why physical books, it’s a combination of a couple of things. It’s the cover art, the smell of the pages. It’s very Instagrammable. For avid readers, the ability to share books when you are finished or have it in your personal library to show how much you’ve read, is important.”
HelloSign, the eSignature platform, is announcing a $16 million financing round led by Foundry Group and Zach Coelius. Greylock Partners, U.S. Venture Partners and Tien Tzuo also participated.
Although the San Francisco-based company has been around since 2010, they are calling it a Series B, since they’ve raised little outside capital. The business is cash flow positive and it’s a “funding round that we did not need to take,” insisted COO Whitney Bouck. But they welcomed the opportunity for Ryan McIntyre from Foundry Group to join their board of directors.
The Docusign and Adobe Sign competitor has convinced 55,000 companies to pay for its services on a subscription basis. They estimate that they have over seven million users on the platform, which includes consumers who utilize the basic features for free.
The “freemium product” makes it a “very low barrier to entry,” CEO Joseph Walla told TechCrunch. “Anyone can go and use us for up to three documents per month.” He compared the experience to Box and Dropbox.
In addition to signing and sharing documents, they recently introduced HelloWorks, which turns PDF forms into easy-to-edit digital files.
“The API is really our primary focus,” said Bouck. She said they want to be “the Twilio or Stripe of eSignature.”
Ryan McIntyre from Foundry Group said they invested in HelloSign because “they’ve managed to do very much with very little, and that’s a sweet spot for us. We believe that the market for eSignature is in a position to grow exponentially and it’s clear that HelloSign is in an excellent position to lead the charge. They’re lean, mean, and incredibly innovative.”
 
 
Oh dear. “From “essential” to inconsequential in one partnership”, as one of my colleagues put it when told the news that Andy Rubin’s much hyped Essential smartphone is only going to be ranged by fourth largest US network, Sprint. “lol good luck” was another’s even more concise hottake.
USA Today quotes Essential president Niccolo de Masi spinning like a fidget spinner the revelation that Rubin’s hardware upstart — which, only last week, we heard had apparently raised $300 million in order to bring its smartphone to the masses — has in fact failed to secure the kind of widespread carrier distribution that is, dare I say it, essential for bringing smartphones to the masses.
“We like to bet with where we think the market is going as opposed to where the market was,” quoth de Masi. “I feel like we are a new brand and a new consumer electronics company and we are partnering with the network of the future.”
Feelings are great. It’s just that reality isn’t always very kind to them.
The Essential phone was unveiled at the end of last month, with a $699 price tag. And while consumers will still be able to fork that bundle of dollars out to get an unlocked version of the device, that’s not how mainstream smartphone marketshare is won. Just ask Google re: its Nexus smartphones.
Carrier distribution is a key make-or-break fact for hitting serious volume with U.S. released smartphones, as another colleague previously pointed out. Ergo, the Essential Phone is fast looking like little more than a very expensive vanity project.
Although, to be fair to Rubin, his head of product architecture, Jason Keats, did tell Wired the startup is not in a position to mass produce the phone — given that in Rubin’s overarching quest to address the “sea of products” infesting the tech space by, er, building more tech products, they apparently found themselves making purposefully obtuse design, engineering and manufacturing decisions because of the ‘mission impossible’ they are setting themselves (i.e. locating an iota of relevance in an entirely saturated smartphone market).
The phone itself is made from a blend of titanium and ceramic — we’re told on strength grounds — and has a screen sweet-spot-sized 5.6-inch display which also follows the bezel-squeezing trend; an 8MP front-facing camera which can record 4K video, and a 13MP rear lens with a second monochrome sensor to help boost low-light shots; while, under the hood, there’s a Qualcomm 835 processor, 4GB of RAM and 128GB of on-device storage.
Perhaps the most notable addition is a clip-on accessory that adds a 360 degree camera for people who want more ‘environmental bezel’ with their selfies. Though Essential is also working on a second product, a smart home hub, so its connected hardware ambitions do range beyond phones.
“We’ve gone after technologies and methods of manufacturing that aren’t designed to support 50 million devices,” Keats told Wired magazine at the end of last month. “We’re not for everybody. You know it’s going to be a little exclusive.”
Being ranged by one of the smallest carriers in the US — Sprint has been adding subscriber numbers in recent quarters but still lags Verizon*, AT&T and T-Mobile — does indeed sound like a “little exclusive”.
Sprint’s owner, SoftBank, previously dropped plans to invest $100M in Essential — reportedly due in part to the Japanese firm’s investment with Apple, via its $93BN Vision Fund. But USA Today says Rubin is an advisor to SoftBank’s fund — and, according to de Masi, friendly with CEO Masayoshi Son — so the pair of hardware lovers have evidently found a way to work together on Essential after all, despite competitive conflicts.
Even so, it seems unlikely Apple CEO Tim Cook will be losing much sleep over this partnership. Or indeed, much profit from the premium portion of the smartphone market that the iPhone has cornered.
* NB: TechCrunch’s parent AOL’s parent company is Verizon
There are so many great robotics projects underway that it’s hard to pick the best to appear at TC Sessions: Robotics, which is coming to MIT’s Kresge Auditorium on July 17. The agenda is filled with robots accompanying their creators on panel sessions and 1-on-1s. But that’s not enough. The event will also feature three straight-up demos, and today we’re pleased to announce the companies and projects that will take the stage.
The Leaping QuadrupedMIT’s Sangbae Kim won global attention with the Cheetah robot, which Kim developed at MIT’s Biometric Robotics Lab. The quadruped can not only run smoothly, but Cheetah II can run and jump over obstacles without missing a step. Kim plans to introduce the audience to Cheetah III and show off new capabilities, including voice activation. Kim has a PhD in robotics from Stanford University and is an assistant professor at MIT.
The Delicate Touch
Can a robot’s touch ever be gentle enough for delicate commercial work, like packing eggs? A crop of startups getting there, and Cambridge, Massachusetts-based Soft Robotics is a frontrunner. The company’s “air actuated soft elastomeric end effectors” – also known as octopus-like grippers – are delivering what only humans could until recently. CEO Carl Vause is a veteran of the medical device industry and has a BS in electrical engineering from Virginia Military Institute as well as a MBA from the London School of Business.
The Scrum Master
Last but not least, Locus Robotics will take the stage with their LocusBots for a live demo of their new navigational system LRAN, which LocusBots says allows multiple bots to work with each other and humans busy warehouse environments. Locus Robotics founder Bruce Welty, a serial founder, will take the stage to drive the demo and walk the audience though what the Andover, Massachusetts-based firm believes are the coming generation of warehouse robots. Welty was a mathematics major at Colorado College and has an MBA from Boston College.
Please check out the rest of the agenda, which includes pioneers like MIT CSAIL’s Daniel Rus, Amazon’s Tye Brady, Disney’s Martin Buehler, CyPhy Works’ Helen Grenier, SRI’s Manish Kothari, Matternet’s Andreas Raptopoulos and many others – technologists, founders, investors, researchers and more.
General admission tickets are currently available for purchase though seating is very limited. Act fast.
TechCrunch has also set aside a fixed number of deeply discounted student tickets. Students should send current school transcripts and student ID card to students@techcrunch.com.
Agenda
TC Sessions: Robotics
July 17, 2017 @ MIT’s Kresge Auditorium
9:00 AM – 9:05 AMOpening Remarks from Matthew Panzarino
9:05 AM – 9:25 AMWhat’s Next at MIT’s Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence Laboratory with Daniela Rus (MIT CSAIL)
9:25 AM – 9:50 AM Is Venture Ready for Robotics? with Manish Kothari (SRI), Josh Wolfe (Lux Capital) and Helen Zelman (Lemnos)
10:10 AM – 10:35 AMCollaborative Robots At Work with Clara Vu (VEO),  Jerome Dubois (6 River Systems) and Holly Yanco (UMass Lowell)
10:35 AM – 10:55 AMCoffee Break
10:55 AM – 11:20 AMBuilding A Robotics Startup from Angel to Exit with Helen Greiner (CyPhy Works), Andy Wheeler (GV) and Elaine Chen (Martin Trust Center for MIT Entrepreneurship)
11:20 AM – 11:30 AM Soft Robotics (Carl Vause) Demo
11:30 AM – 11:55 AMImagineering Disney Robotics with Martin Buehler (Disney Imagineering)
12:00 PM – 1:00 PMLunch and Workshops TBA
1:00 PM – 1:20 PMRobots at Amazon with Tye Brady (Amazon Robotics)
1:20 PM – 1:55 PMWhen Robots Fly with Buddy Michini (Airware), Andreas Raptopoulos (Matternet) and Anil Nanduri (Intel)
1:55 PM – 2:15 PMPackbot, Roomba and Beyond with Colin Angle (iRobot)
2:15 PM – 2:35 PMBuilding Better Bionics Samantha Payne (Open Bionics) and TBA
2:35 PM – 2:45 PMDemo TBA
2:45 PM – 3:05 PMThe Future of Industrial Robotics with Sami Atiya (ABB)
3:05 PM – 3:25 PMCoffee Break
3:25 – 3:35 PMDemo TBA
3:35 PM – 4:15 PMRobotics Startup Pitch-off (Judges and contestants TBA)
4:15 PM – 4:35 PMThe Age Of The Household Robot with Gill Pratt (Toyota Research Institute)
4:35 PM – 4:55 PMBuilding The Robot Brain with Heather Ames (Neurala) and Brian Gerky (OSRF) and TBA
4:55 PM – 5:20 PMRobots, AI and Humanity with David Barrett (Olin), David Edelman (MIT) and Dr. Brian Pierce (DARPA) and TBA
5:20 PM – 5:25 PMWrap Up 
5:25 PM -7:00 PMReception  
Mobike, one of China’s largest bike-sharing companies, will launch in Manchester and Salford, its first cities outside of Asia. The service is slated to arrive on June 29, the Beijing-headquartered company said, and will start with 1,000 bikes.

#Manchester will become the 100th @Mobike city and the first outside of Asia – see more at @MobikeUk #MobikeMovement https://t.co/3NXiBidaVl pic.twitter.com/4d3x5h3i2x
— Mobike (@Mobike) June 12, 2017

Mobike’s launch outside of Asia (it expanded into Singapore in March) heightens is competition with Ofo, another well-funded Chinese bike-sharing startup that is keen on international expansion. Ofo actually beat Mobike to England when it launched a pilot two months ago in Cambridge, but that was on a much smaller scale with just 20 bikes.
Ofo’s U.K. operations director, Joseph Seal-Driver, however, told the Guardian that it wants to be in three U.K. cities by the end of this year. The two startups have been busy building their war chests over the last 9 months with large funding rounds. Ofo was the first to claim unicorn status after closing a $450 million round led by DST (its other investors include Didi Chuxing, China’s top taxi-hailing service). Mobike, meanwhile, has raised over $300 million from backers including Tencent and Foxconn.
Both startups are sometimes called the “Uber of bikes” because they allow users to locate and unlock nearby bicycles though an app. Mobike’s bikes have built-in GPS and smart locks and at the end of their trip, riders can leave them wherever they can be parked legally. Since bikes don’t need to be locked into special docks (like, for example, Santander Cycles, the London-based bike-sharing service launched by former mayor Boris Johnson), this system is not only more convenient, but also highly scalable.
The drawback is that piles of bikes from bike-sharing startups have become a public nuisance in some Chinese cities. This prompted Mobike to implement a system that lets its users report improperly parked bikes that belong to it in China and in Manchester it is taking a cautious approach to its rollout by starting with a six-month trial period. It has also agreed to work with the city councils of Manchester and Salford, and Transport for Greater Manchester (TfGM).
In Mobike’s press release, mayor of Greater Manchester Andy Burnham said, “We’re conscious that our city center is a complex and busy area already, so TfGM has been working hard to establish a voluntary code of working with Mobike to make sure the service operates in a way that doesn’t inconvenience other road users, pedestrians or city center traders.”
Mobike says it currently operates more than five million smart bikes, with users taking 20 million rides each day.
Advertisement		


After playing with the new iPad Pro 10.5″ for a few days, I am convinced that it’s fairly impossible to do a detailed review of it in its current state. Not because there is some sort of flaw, but because it was clearly designed top to bottom as an empty vessel in which to pour iOS 11.
Every feature, every hardware advancement, every piece of understated technical acrobatics is in the service of making Apple’s next-generation software shine.
I know this isn’t really helpful to those of you who have or wish to buy the device when it drops on Tuesday, but don’t worry, I can save you all of that flim flam. This is an amazing iPad. It pays off years of setup in ways that come home when you see how well iOS 11 works.
Last year, Apple’s Tim Cook said that “we believe that iPad is the perfect expression of the future of computing.” This year, that claim seems more ideologically sound than ever.
Think of every iPad up to this point as a glass of water set on a shelf — in wait for some future moment of need. This iPad is Apple’s “swing away” moment. It executes on the years of insistence that the iPad is the future of light work computers. But that moment is only telegraphed, shadowed, until you see it through the lens of iOS 11.
So instead of a full review today, I’m going to talk about some of the marquee features of the iPad and how Apple was able to execute on them. And yes, whether they live up to the marketing blitz hype. Then, we’re going to install iOS 11 on it and work it hard until we can talk about how the two halves of this whole play out.
If you’ve been following the way I write about Apple releases over the past couple of years, you also know that I’m leery of delivering a full-on “review” just a few days in.

First things first, the size is great. With a 20 percent larger screen but an increase in physical size of only 7 percent, the sweet spot has been well and hit. The larger 12.9-inch size will stick around, but I’d expect to see all other iPads at 10.5 inches at some point. It’s just the right size.
The bezels are small but not invisible, which is important for a device that you need leverage to hold in your hand. At this point, Apple has pretty much given up on the “limited screen sizes for developers to build to” approach. It gave people building for iPad about three years to start thinking in this new resolution-independent way that allowed apps to scale to any size, and now it’s stepping off the ledge.
There are currently a bunch of screen sizes in Apple’s lineup and the message is clear: however big or small it needs to be, that’s what we’re going to do.
Of course the bigger size means you get some more physical space. So rather than stretching out the pixels on the display, Apple just increased the number of them, resulting in the exact same density. Basically, this looks as sharp as the 9.7-inch iPad Pro — just bigger. This means a larger work area for drawing or editing apps, but, in my experience, isn’t a big enough change to have a significant impact on the experience of working on apps like Paper or Final Cut from the smaller iPad. If you want that feeling of expansive work area and access to more hidden pallets directly, then go all the way to the 12.9 inches.
The big gem here is the quality of the screen. Apple has bundled together its P3 color gamut and True Tone technology into a single category called Promotion. You can take a look here; they really are fantastic. But this generation adds a significant enhancement into the same group — the ability to scale the refresh rate from 24Hz on the low end to 120Hz on the high end.
This allows the screen to refresh up to 120 times per second if you’re looking at fast-moving content, or down to 24 times per second if you’re staring at a static page. Obviously when it’s cranked up to the max it uses a ton more battery, but when it’s down low, while reading for instance, it’s sipping power by comparison.
This makes an enormous difference while scrolling, as it refreshes as fast as you can possibly scroll it, making for a smoother look with less stutter. iOS has always had a leg up when it comes to buttery scrolling, but Promotion takes it beyond. Content feels like it sticks to your finger or flies by when you fling it.
There is also a massive bonus when it comes to the Pencil. Because it’s sampling 120 times per second, it’s able to make the Pencil appear even smoother, with the tip following the draw point precisely. Apple says that the latency (delay) of the pencil is down to 20 milliseconds, but with the higher refresh and some additional behind-the-scenes predictive magic, it can actually get down as low as a perceived 8ms, which is insane. The Pencil quite simply offers as close to a paper experience as you’ll see on any commercial tablet anywhere.

The supporting silicon of the A10X chip allows Apple to deliver not just the best tablet screen, but one of the best displays in all of computing at the moment. It really is a cut above.
This variable refresh rate makes it rather hard to measure battery accurately — about the best you can do is to try to run tests on a single kind of content and then average them out. I was only able to do some cursory testing but so far the measure of 10 hours seems super conservative unless you’re watching a ton of high frame rate video. I regularly got 12-15 hours out of it in normal, mixed, use.


Crunchbase






				iPad Pro			


 
Description
The "iPad Pro" is said to be an even larger version of the iPad Air, with a display measuring in at 12.9 inches.


Website
N/A


Full profile for iPad Pro 



 



				iPad			


 
Description
The Apple iPad, formerly referred to as the Apple Tablet, is a touch-pad tablet computer.


Website
http://www.apple.com/ipad


Full profile for iPad 









Accessory wise, by the way, the keyboard is the same material, feel and build (and they all work on all sizes). The new leather cases are really well made, though. Apple has come a very long way when it comes to leather working and materials smarts in these cases. Its early crude watch bands and cases pale in comparison to these.
The camera hardware is the exact same package as in an iPhone 7, which is to say it’s the first time that a front and rear camera on an iPad has been on par with iPhone and quite good at that. The side effect of having the amazing front camera in it and the larger screen is that you end up with the most badass camera viewfinder ever.
It’s important to note that the overall feel is what’s important, in the end, the result of all of these bumps in power and precision. I’m happy to report that it feels smooth and capable and like it’s running with overhead to spare. Even at 4GB of RAM, I never had much trouble splitting the screen or bopping around between apps. Never a single lag in the Pencil or during heavy sessions in Affinity Photo. And I wrote this piece entirely on the iPad Pro; aside from the 103 degree fever I’m running at the moment (thanks kids!), it was painless.

Science fiction for has decades displayed tablets as the future of mid-range computing. (Of note: many of them show heavy use terminals still need a keyboard, which feels right). And it makes sense. In a world of artificial intelligence, greater mobility and voice-first systems, an always-attached keyboard feels silly and archaic for the majority.
With the iPad Pro, especially when it’s armed with iOS 11, it’s beginning to feel possible to see Apple in this world. The combination of custom silicon, a still robust and specifically attuned software ecosystem and a focus on security, Apple has everything it needs to make a strong showing here.
Whether it leads to immediate growth of the category I don’t yet know – but this particular recipe is coming to maturity. The iPad is a full-fledged computer, and you can argue against it but you’re going to increasingly sound like a contrarian.



Uber’s business is going through a period of turmoil in the U.S. right now, but Grab — its main rival in Southeast Asia — is under pressure itself after a driver in Malaysia was arrested on suspicion of raping a passenger he drove home via the ride-hailing service.
Media in Malaysia, the country where Grab originated, report that police have reprimanded a 30-year-old man for six days after a woman reported that she was raped around 4am on Sunday near her house in Seri Kembangan, Selangor state. According to a police statement disseminated to press, the victim did not put up a fight because she was drunk. The driver was part of the GrabCar private car service, which is comparable to Uber X.
Grab confirmed it has removed the driver from its platform. It told TechCrunch that it is cooperating with police and that it will offer support to the alleged victim and her family. The firm added that it plans to introduce a panic button within its passenger app — the feature is currently limited to its driver app. (Grab’s full statement is included at the bottom of this story.)
Grab recently celebrated its fifth anniversary. Its service is present in seven countries across Southeast Asia, where it claims 45 million user downloads, 900,000 drivers and 2.5 million daily rides. It has raised close to $1.5 billion from investors including SoftBank and Tiger Global, according to data from Crunchbase. It is reported to be gearing up to raise another $1.5 billion.
Today’s incident recalls the tragic rape of an Uber passenger in New Delhi, India, in December 2014. Local authorities subsequently suspended the Uber service in the city for a period, while the U.S. firm instituted a series of features designed to increase passenger safety, including trip-tracking and an SOS button.
Today’s news is the second criminal incident against female passengers in Malaysia of late. Last month, an Uber passenger was robbed during a ride. She said suffered a miscarriage one week after the incident.
Here’s the statement from Sean Goh, country head of Grab Malaysia, in full:

We regret that there has been an incident reported on 11 June where a GrabCar driver had allegedly sexually assaulted a passenger. The news is deeply distressing and our priority now is to assist and provide support to the passenger and her family, as well as fully cooperate with the police and relevant authorities. The police investigation is ongoing, and we will not be able to share further details of this case. We have a zero tolerance policy to any crime and serious misconduct by drivers, and have immediately removed the driver from our platform, pending completion of police investigations.
The safety of both our passengers and drivers is, and always will be, a priority for Grab. I am truly sorry that we have let down our users and community in this instance, and humbly ask our passengers and drivers to please allow us to keep improving the safety and reliability of our service. We have in place rigorous face-to-face driver screening and criminal background checks – and we are committed to keep investing in driver screenings and training, and other safety initiatives. The Grab driver app currently has a PDRM ‘panic button’ for drivers to immediately contact the police in emergency cases. We will be expediting our plans to extend this feature to the Grab passenger app as well.
Snap extended the sale of its Spectacles into Europe this month, but already the company is working on a second version of the video-recording glasses which could be quite radical, according to a source with knowledge of the plans.
The first set of Spectacles went on sale last year and are priced at $129.99. They allow their owner to take photos and videos which can then be posted to the Snapchat service. The idea is to give users a way to create and share different types of content.
The second-generation project is closely guarded inside the company — to the point that few of Snap’s 1,800 staff are aware of the product’s details or when it will ship, another source told TechCrunch. What we do understand, however, that the next version is billed as being “quite different” to the first gen glasses, although it isn’t clear at this point exactly what that entails.
It seems increasingly likely that Spectacles II will ship with augmented reality features built in. A major clue came last month when a Snap patent application for AR glasses was discovered by Mashable. The filing, dated November 2015, details how Snap plans to use a dual-glass arrangement to sense a user’s location and then beam digital content into the space around them.
Snap’s app is already primed to support such a move. It recently rolled out an augmented reality feature — called World Lenses — in April which allows users to place digital objects around them. Unlike masks and filters, users can walk around the 3D objects which exist in their space when viewed through the Snapchat app for a limited time before disappearing.


Snap has long been linked with forays into different kinds of hardware beyond glasses, and that’s another reason why this filing is notable.
The patent filing makes reference to the potential for other products, including “an augmented reality helmet [and] an augmented reality visor.” Furthermore, Snap has been linked with drones after it bought small firm Ctrl Me and explored internal product options. It has also considered selling a 360 degree camera, as we reported earlier this year.
Despite this potential pipeline of differentiated hardware, our source suggested that, for now at least, Snap is working on releasing glasses as its follow-up to the original Spectacles.
Snap first began selling Spectacles last November via a single ‘Snapbot’ vending machine in its native Venice, California, and with precious little publicity. It expanded the Snapbots over the following months and made the glasses available to buy online in the U.S. in February.
While the device has captured the imagination of many, it hasn’t made a huge difference to Snap’s bottom line. The company hasn’t said how many it sold, but reading the tea leaves of its financials, we estimated that it shifted something in the region of 34,600 pairs in Q4 2016 and 63,800 pairs in the first quarter of 2017. That’s around $4.5 million and $8.3 million per quarter, respectively. Considering Snap’s business did $149.6 million in revenue in Q1 — with an overall loss of $2.2 billion — it isn’t all that much to shout about. Yet.

 Snap
Timeular, the Austrian startup behind the neat Zei time-tracking device that we wrote about last year, has raised €1 million ($1.1 million) in funding to develop new productivity coaching tools to help you work smarter.
The company is best known for the Zei, its eight-sided device that is Bluetooth-enabled and acts as a timer. You simply program each side to a different task and tip it when you’re working on a particular task or change to another.
The device blew past its €75,000 goal on Kickstarter, going on to raise €313,637 from over 3,000 backers. It caught the eyes of others, too. Timeular was named Austrian startup of the year for 2016, which, in turn, put it on the radar of domestic VC Speedinvest which is financing the €1 million round.
Having first helped people keep track of time, the goal is now to help them work with more efficiency.
“Time-tracking is nice but you need to create some value because people struggle for insight into their data,” Timeular CEO Manuel Bruschi told TechCrunch in an interview. “We want to help people to become more productive and see how they can spend their time better.”
The company is using this new fundraising to develop a time-tracking and productivity solution that will give users tips to boost their output, and reports into how their work productivity is faring. The service will work best when paired with a Zei — which is available for €115 ($129) from the Timeular website — but Bruschi said the idea is to make it open for all.
The exact details are still to be defined, but he said that the core service will be available to paying users, who would subscribe to an ongoing paid membership package. There may be limited options for free users.
“People are stating to care more about time than money,” Bruschi added. “That’s what we want to help them achieve. It used to be ‘work hard, play hard,’ but now we think it is more important to work smart. For example, working 30 hours a week while keeping the same output and making time for other things in life.”
Timeular plans to introduce its upcoming product in the third quarter of this year, initially in beta with a full launch expected before the end of 2017. Interested users can sign up here for updates on the progress of the launch.
Speedinvest partner and hardware expert Lucanus Polagnoli is among those eagerly anticipating the service.
“Timeular has developed a revolutionary product to tackle one of our greatest challenges: finding time for important things in life,” he told TechCrunch via email. “Manuel and his team have the potential to really change the way we make use of our time.”
Lyft recently raised $600 million in a massive funding round, and now we know that $25 million of that came from Jaguar Land Rover, via its mobility services subsidiary InMotion. The car maker’s investment in Lyft goes beyond just funds, however; it’s providing Lyft drivers with a fleet of Jaguar and Land Rover vehicles as part of the tie-up, and it’s also going to work with the ride-hailing tech company on autonomous vehicle testing.
This is yet another high-profile partner for Lyft after a spate of recent new collaborators, including Waymo and, just last week, Nutonomy. Now, Jaguar Land Rover is also joining the company’s Open Platform for autonomous cars: The collaboration with InMotion will see the Jaguar Land Rover-owned company “develop and test its mobility services, including autonomous vehicles” using Lyft’s platform.
Lyft’s ability to rapidly bring on a lot of partners in the car maker space, specifically around autonomy, may have a lot to do with rival Uber’s ongoing problems, which now also include mounting calls for CEO Travis Kalanick to step back, at least temporarily, from his leadership role. Lyft has also been pretty clear about seeking to partner on autonomy, rather than pursue its own tech, which is likewise different from Uber’s current approach.
Uber, too, has brought automakers to the table around self-driving services and making use of its ride hailing platform for mobility service offerings. Both Uber and Lyft seem interested in being the layer that connects riders and these future services, and for automakers, it means leaving a complex and challenging part of the picture to partners with experience and expertise, rather than having to spin up that part of the tech business themselves.
The fleet provision in the deal is also interesting, and suggests the partnership between the two could involve more strategic cooperative service offerings ahead of the advent of commercial self-driving tech. Lyft gaining more ground among automakers beyond longtime partner GM also explain why it was reported that the ride hailing company turned down overtures regarding a potential acquisition by the Detroit-based automaker.
Apple is getting ready to launch its first retail store in Taiwan. According to its Taiwan website, the Apple Store will be in Taipei 101, the landmark skyscraper, and decorated with papercut art by Yang Shiyi, whose work is already featured on a sign marking the shop’s future location.

Here comes Apple Taipei 101, our first store in Taiwan! 有閒來坐! pic.twitter.com/hniIt9K3Xa
— Tim Cook (@tim_cook) June 11, 2017

Up till now, Taiwanese Apple users have relied on its site or authorized resellers like Youth, Studio A, and iStore to buy products. The Apple Store’s arrival in Taiwan is interesting because of the country’s fraught relationship with China,  Apple’s largest market outside of the U.S., which considers Taiwan a rogue state instead of a sovereign nation.
The absence of an official Apple Store was especially ironic because many of Apple’s key suppliers, including Foxconn, are headquartered in Taiwan despite operating factories in China.
The delay, however, may simply be because there are already plenty of retail locations operated by resellers that capture the look and feel of Apple Stores. Apple also recently launched its first store in Singapore and is preparing to open one in South Korea.
An opening date hasn’t been announced yet, but local newspaper Apple Daily (which is unrelated to Apple) speculates that it will be by the end of this month.
Uber’s Board of Directors has voted unanimously to implement all of the recommendations contained within the report it commissioned from former U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder and his legal partners Tammy Albarrán. The board met Sunday to discuss the recommendations, which reportedly include a suggestion that Uber SVP Emil Michael, a trusted confidant of CEO Travis Kalanick, be asked to leave the company.
In a statement, a representative for the Board offered the following:
The Uber Board met today with Eric Holder and Tammy Albarrán. The Board unanimously voted to adopt all the recommendations of the Holder Report. The recommendations will be released to the employees on Tuesday.
Uber has been leaking pretty consistently since the report approached its conclusion, with a number of stories appearing last week including one about a senior Uber executive getting a rape victim’s medical records released since an Uber driver perpetrated the crime.
Another report claims that Kalanick is considering at least a temporary departure from the company in the wake of these recent revelations. The board reportedly considered this option during their meeting on Sunday, alongside the recommendations in Holder’s report.
The company will learn the specifics of the recommendations to be adopted Tuesday, and it’s very likely those will also be made public at that time, either through official channels or through the network of leaks that have been providing much of the information regarding the report thus far.

 Rob Kim/Getty Images
Microsoft revealed the Xbox One X to the world today, proving that it thinks X is just the best letter. The new console is mostly an Xbox One, but with 4K HDR output capabilities and Dolby Atmos surround sound on board. From an exterior design perspective, however, what’s interesting about the Xbox One X is that it’s the smallest Xbox One Microsoft has ever made, despite also being the most powerful.
After the reveal we got some time to get up close and personal with the One X, to peek at its finishes, ports and angles. It was conveniently seated next to an Xbox One S, which meant you could easily see how it was more compact than its sibling. The design is even more conservative, too – it’s basically a no-nonsense black box that contains the most ambitious of console gaming power within.




The Xbox logo is there on the front, along with a convenient front-facing USB port (there are two more on the back of the console). Next to that is the controller pairing button, then on the other side there’s an eject button, the disk slot and an IR receiver. On the right side of the choose there’s a “Hello from Seattle – Xbox One X” engraved message and the exhaust grill. Around back, you’ll find two USB ports, an HDMI in and HDMI out, an optical audio port and an IR out port, as well as Ethernet and a power cable port.
It’s a tidy little black rectangle, and it’s amazing to think that this will be able to generate the kinds of visuals Microsoft was showing on stage. We’ll get our first play time with the new console soon, so stay tuned for further impressions.
 
At its E3 Xbox One X reveal event on Sunday, Microsoft shared a relentless stream of boundary-pushing system specs for the new console, but it stayed surprisingly quiet regarding the future of virtual reality on the device.
Few expected announcements related to a simultaneous VR headset launch as the company had already sought to temper expectations earlier this year saying that VR content releases on “Project Scorpio” would take place in 2018.
The fact that VR support was barely touched on at E3 seemed a bit strange however, given the attention Microsoft has been giving to its “mixed reality” headsets which will launch later this year. The headsets, built by partners like Acer, HP and Dell will be priced lower than options from Oculus and HTC and will be capable of running on much lower-end PCs. While many might see these options as a sort of middle-tier solution to the Rift and Vive, Microsoft expects VR running on the Xbox One X to compete on the high-end.
In an interview with Polygon earlier this week, HoloLens guru Alex Kipman said that Microsoft was hoping to bring wireless VR to its consoles. “Given the efforts we have underway on Windows for mixed reality, and our belief that console VR should be wireless, right now we are focused on developing mixed reality experiences for the PC, not on the console.”
It’s a bit odd, given that most of the push for wireless is being done on the all-in-one side, where the compute power is also in the headset, allowing the user to roam freely with the headset as far as battery life allows.
With console-powered wireless, Microsoft would assumedly be looking at streaming technologies similar to those being used by companies like TPCast and DisplayLink which free users of a physical cord but rely on physical proximity to a transmitter to ensure a seamless connection. This would also necessitate a headset with an imbedded battery, which would likely need to be pretty hefty to account for longer gaming sessions. These technologies would undoubtedly add cost to the device as well.
With this strategy, Microsoft risks a late entry to virtual reality gaming while its primary console competitor, Sony, already begins to see notable success in moving PlayStation VR units, announcing just this past week that the company has surpassed 1 million headsets sold globally since first launching the virtual reality system in October.
Microsoft has already lauded “Project Scorpio,” now Xbox One X, as a VR powerhouse so we’ll undoubtedly see some virtual reality announcements in its future, but with no details at its launch event, its unclear how long we’ll have to wait.
#BackwardCompatibility is expanding to include original #Xbox games.
Watch #XboxE3 live: https://t.co/Z3I4CSvRn2 #XboxOneX pic.twitter.com/81NE0rZBUe
— Xbox (@Xbox) June 11, 2017

During today’s Microsoft E3 2017 keynote, backwards compatibility was announced for original Xbox games for the upcoming Xbox One X.
Microsoft confirmed the announcement for not only original Xbox games, but Xbox 360 and a handful of Xbox One and One S titles as well, during the conference and in a tweet.
One of the original Xbox titles being remastered for the new console include fan-favorite and classic, Crimson Skies. More original titles will be announced later this year, closer to the One X’s launch on November 7th.
Bethesda has made a name for itself with series like The Elder Scrolls, Fallout, Doom, and Wolfenstein.
And today, the studio is set to show off what it’s been working on for the past year. Bethesda will be live streaming its E3 press conference at 9pm PT / 12am ET, which you can watch below.
Watch out for the reveal of Starfield (rumored to be an open-world sci-fi series), Elder Scrolls Online, Skyrim for Switch, new Wolfenstein, and maybe even some games in VR.
You can watch the live stream below, or on Twitch.
 

		
Watch live video from Bethesda on www.twitch.tv
Check out our full E3 coverage here.
With the launch of Microsoft’s new Xbox One X gamers got an update on the latest Minecraft news  — chiefly that Minecraft is now available across any device.
As part of the company’s big show at E3 Microsoft talked about the latest Minecraft update.
The “Better Together Update” unifies console, mobile and Windows 10 versions of the game.
The new update also features better graphics and cross-platform support to let Windows 10 and mobile Minecraft players play the game together.
As part of the update, Minecraft is ditching any special branding associated with Minecraft for Xbox One, Nintendo Switch, mobile games or VR — they’ll all just be known as “Minecraft”. There’s a ‘Minecraft: Java Edition’, which is the original PC game (still supported).

The unified branding is designed to let buyers know they’re all getting the same game, that they can play with anyone no matter what device they’re using, the company said.
Supported devices for unified game play include:

Windows 10
iOS
Android
XBox One
Nintendo’s Switch

If players own Minecraft for mobile or VR, they’ll get an update for the summer. Minecraft for Xbox One or Nintendo Switch owners will get a new update for free, and the existing worlds that gamers have created are going to be available on the new game.
The new update also means that any downloadable content will be available across all devices. So a pack bought on mobile will also be available on Xbox and Windows 10 editions too.

As an additional added perk, Minecraft is throwing in a server browser to its latest update. Launching with four servers, Lifeboat, Mineplex, InPVP and Cubecraft — which lets players join public servers that have monthly users numbering in the millions according to the company.
It’s different from Minecraft Realms, which are privately cloud-hosted servers available for smaller groups.
Finally, there’s a new graphics pack for 4K viewing — better lighting, shadows, and water effects, the company said.
A full year after first teasing Project Scorpio at its last E3 event, Microsoft finally took the wraps of its new console, now called the Xbox One X.  Decidedly less catchy than Xbox Scorpio, but it beats all of the Windows-centric Xbox 10 S rumors that were circling around the past few weeks. The tongue-twister of a console is set to arrive November 7, priced at $499, as initially reported. 
 The company has already alluded to a number of features on-board, including backward compatibility and processing power that make it “the most powerful game console to date.” And from the sound of it, Sony can’t really argue here, there’s a ton of firepower under the hood here, designed to keep Microsoft’s mid-life console line both ahead of the competition and up to speed with the latest happenings on the living room A/V front.


The world's most powerful console has a name.Meet the #XboxOneX. Watch #XboxE3 live: https://t.co/Z3I4CSvRn2 pic.twitter.com/c06V3Fnm8g
— Xbox (@Xbox) June 11, 2017



It’s a fairly minimalist looking system and, impressively, “the smallest Xbox, ever,” according to the company. The  new console is, as advertised, capable of true 4K gaming playback, with HDR video quality and Premium Dolby Atmos, keeping with Microsoft’s long-standing desire to be a full living room entertainment experience, rather than simply a gaming machine. 
Of course, “new console” might be overstating things a bit. Keep in mind, the Xbox One is only about halfway through its lifecycle (the Xbox 360 was kicking for about eight years before its successor launched), but Microsoft still needed to keep up with the times, after the PlayStation Pro arrived with 4K and VR capabilities. Rather than rushing out the next-gen, however, the company has introduced a more capable version of the One.

There’s also a pretty robust bump in RAM up to 12GB of memory, coupled with a healthy 326GB/s of memory bandwidth. This is, as advertised, an extremely powerful system, and Microsoft has gone a ways toward eliminating bottlenecking between the graphics and processor. All of those high-powered innards will be liquid-cooled with the sort of vapor chamber you usually find on a server. 
The company noted that the box is capable of something called “supersampling,” meaning that users won’t need a 4K TV to take advantage of the new video quality. It should look better a plain old standard 1080p set, as well.


Meet the world's most powerful console: the #XboxOneX. https://t.co/nlQHT5mk3j #XboxE3 pic.twitter.com/BhV37k7KPl
— Xbox (@Xbox) June 11, 2017



For those gamers who aren’t spec-obsessed, what all of that means is that the new system is about more than just keeping up with the proverbial Joneses. It’s about helping to future-proof the Xbox One at the halfway mark of its lifecycle. The console will not only be capable of doing 4K res gaming, it also features a little adde kick for when performance requirements invariable increase well before the next-gen Xbox officially arrives.

Even more importantly at launch, the system will be compatible with all existing Xbox One games out of the box, along with accessories. No software, no patches. So, there’s plenty of content to get up and running at launch. Microsoft has also promised to make scaling up easy, promising developers that any titles in 900p will be able to run at full frame rates in 4K, a feature it demoed during an early review back in April.
The company will also be be helping bring 4K upgrades to a number of Xbox titles, including Gears of War 4, Forza Horizon 3, Killer Instinct, Halo Wars 2 and Minecraft.



OLYMPUS DIGITAL CAMERA




 View Slideshow


Previous
Next
Exit


In fact, the company showed off 42 new titles at today’s E3 event. As it put it on stage, each will work with every member of the Xbox family, though they’ll work “best” with the Xbox One X. That means, among other things, that for cash-strapped users, this won’t exactly be a “must update” like the PlayStation Pro before it. New titles will still be compatible with the versions that came before it — you just won’t get that full 4K experience. 
For those who do upgrade, the Xbox One X should help keep the line atop the gaming console spec race — at least until the next shoe drops.
Kobie Fuller
Contributor




Figuring out how to organize your marketing stack is almost like putting together a 1,000 piece blank jigsaw puzzle — impossible. 
A Q1 ‘17 survey by CMO Council and RedPoint Global revealed only 3% of respondents felt all of their automation, engagement and deployment tools were fully connected, with data, metrics and insights traveling freely between different technologies. 
This stat was staggering to me. Rather than just sit on my hands I’ve put together this infographic, which will help marketers better make sense on how to potentially organize these tools and get closer to achieving cross-channel marketing nirvana.

Organize and focus your team:
You need a team that is organized and led at the level of the New England Patriots. Both your quant marketers and creative teams need systems and processes that help foster trust, harmony, commitment, accountability and orientation towards results (check out The 5 Dysfunctions of Team for more). Marketing specific collaboration tools are taking stabs at addressing these needs and should be incorporated into how you organize your teams.
Know your message:
It’s very easy to get lost in all the process and organization of marketing and totally lose track of the appropriate message you should be communicating to your target customer. Don’t fall into this trap! Put content first as all the effort you put into everything else will be wasted if you fail in crafting the right message. There are a lot of tools that can help you work through the content creation process.
Establish an Intelligence Hub:
Create one centralized view of the customer and apply analytics, data science and orchestration against it so you can enable advanced communication. This is the heart of integrating most of your tools. Create sophisticated automation orchestrating messages within and across channels. Keep in mind your approach should allow for 1 to 1, 1 to many and 1 to all forms of messaging. 
At Upfront, we recently invested in Cordial which aims to take this approach allowing marketers to take disparate data sources and create advanced marketing automation campaigns across all the dominant messaging channels in this type of manner. It’s something that’s been incredibly difficult to do with legacy systems until now.
Master the basic channels first:
While there are many exciting new types of marketing campaigns to drive growth, core channels such as email, social, web, search and offline still should be the main centers of focus for marketers. Be careful about getting distracted by next gen tactics like chatbots or VR if you haven’t even figured out the simple channels of reach.
Always be testing:
Invest in tools that test and optimize the performance of existing channels. You should always be searching for incremental lift in every tactic and tool you employ. If you fail in creating a test driven culture it will be very difficult to understand whether some of your new initiatives are really helping or hurting.
Wow the customer:
Focus on the customer experience and strive to make it a magical one. Leverage all data and insights available in order to delight the customer. However, don’t be afraid from time to time to take radical chances by throwing all customer feedback out the door and surprise them with something transformational that they never would expect. Its those types of moments that separate good marketers from great ones.
Keep in mind that this overview is just that — an overview (it’s a lot in some places and over-simplified in others). How you will digest all of this information will, in part, depend upon your expertise. If you’re just starting out, take it slow and don’t get overwhelmed. If you’re an expert, send along some feedback on how this can be improved (there’s an interactive version coming!). 
What’s important to remember is that there has never been a more exciting time to be a marketer — and technology is playing a pivotal part in fostering better relationships with customers.

 FeelPic/Getty Images
According to a variety of media reports, Uber’s board is meeting in Los Angeles today in what may be the most critical sit-down in the company’s eight-year history.
The biggest item on the agenda, according to the New York Times, is whether or not cofounder and embattled CEO Travis Kalanick should take a leave of absence. How strongly the board pushes for this will likely depend on the findings of a months-long investigation spearheaded by former U.S. attorney general Eric Holder.
In recent months, on Uber’s dime, Holder’s current employer, the white-shoe firm Covington and Burling, has interviewed hundreds of employees to obtain a picture of Uber’s culture; they were hired after the publication of a widely read account by former Uber engineer Susan Fowler Rigetti, who blogged in February about the company’s rampant sexual discrimination and harassment issues.
According to Recode, a three-person subcommittee of Uber’s board that’s made up of media executive Arianna Huffington and investors Bill Gurley and David Bonderman have read those findings – which will be presented to the rest of the company on Tuesday – and Recode’s sources say they depict “a landscape of trouble.”
Uber hasn’t responded to our requests for comment, but already, according to the Wall Street Journal, Uber’s chief business officer, Emil Michael, is expected to resign tomorrow morning.
Michael has been a controversial figure since late 2014. At the time, Buzzfeed reported that at a dinner attended by journalists, Michael talked in earnest about hiring opposition researchers to dig up dirt on the company’s critics, including Silicon Valley reporter Sarah Lacy.
Despite a hand slap on Twitter, Kalanick stuck by him. Michael also survived a separate, parallel investigation into Uber by the law firm Perkins Coie, which has spent recent months looking into 200 employee complaints involving bullying, sexual harassment, and gender bias, an investigation that has led to the termination of 20 people.
Whether Michael’s plans to leave will be enough to satisfy the board remains to be seen, but it doesn’t seem likely, particularly in light of the damaging stories that are now leaking regularly about crucial mistakes either facilitated by or implicitly condoned by the company.
In March, for example, the New York Times reported on a years-long program used by Uber to deceive the authorities in markets where it was either battling law enforcement or was outright banned.
Last week, it was revealed that Uber executive Eric Alexander mishandled the medical report of a woman who was raped in 2014 by an Uber driver in India. (She filed a lawsuit against Uber and later settled with the company. Alexander was fired this past Wednesday, following press reports about his conduct.)
A misguided email crafted in 2013 by Kalanick to Uber employees concerning their sexual relations was also made public last week.
It seems likely that even more unflattering stories about Uber, and perhaps Kalanick specifically, will emerge, given the expanding number of enemies the company finds itself facing. In fact, a growing chorus is calling for a major reset before Uber finds itself deeper in the muck.
It’s hard to imagine Kalanick stepping down permanently. As described by the New York Times, Kalanick has outsized voting power owing to the super voting rights that he enjoys, along with his cofounder Garrett Camp, and longtime lieutenant, Ryan Graves, both of whom are also board members. (Graves was formerly the company’s head of operations, with human resources falling under his purview.)
Uber’s other board members include Gurley, Huffington, and Bonderman.
Four director seats remain empty, notes the Times.
Graves seems a highly unlikely choice to step in for his friend, including because he could be seen as partly responsible for the company’s cultural issues in the first place.
On the other hand, it’s fairly easy to see Camp stepping into the role if Kalanick is pressured to step away. By all accounts, Uber was Camp’s idea originally. Camp is also highly regarded in startup and venture circles. Not least, though Camp has been running a startup studio for the last few years and previously cofounded and sold (then reacquired) the discovery engine StumbleUpon, most of Camp’s wealth is also tied up in Uber, which is reportedly valued currently at between $60 billion and $70 billion.
Camp hasn’t returned a request for comment. (Presumably, he’s in that board meeting right now.) But if we had to place a bet, our money would be on him.
Either way, the deck chairs are being shuffled. We’ll see soon enough who winds up where.
HEY!!!
“Project Scorpio” is the most hotly anticipated item at E3 this year, and Microsoft is set to show off the new console today at a 2pm PT / 5pm ET press conference.
Darrell and I will be there with bells on to give you all the latest news about the device, as well as anything else Redmond might have up its sleeve.
You can also watch the live stream right here.



We’re in line. Security is INTENSE, which is great. 
It’s a big week for gamers everywhere, and Xbox loyalists in particular have plenty to be excited about.
Microsoft is going live with their E3 press conference today at 2pm PT/5pm ET, and we’ll finally get our first look at  Project Scorpio.
Some have speculated that Project Scorpio will be a Windows 10 gaming PC built specifically for the living room, converging PC and console gaming with today’s grander media landscape. But, of course, we can’t know for sure until Microsoft shows this thing off.
The live stream will be available in 4K on YouTube and Mixer, but you can also watch on Facebook, Twitter, Twitch, Xbox One, and Fuse on TV.
You can also watch the whole thing right here:
 

Watch live video from Xbox on www.twitch.tv
Check out our full E3 coverage here.
We’re always looking for the New New Thing in tech, since long before Michael Lewis coined the phrase. Often we are entirely too successful. There are so many New New Things — and so many of them fall from the sky like burned-out flares soon enough, to further litter the graveyard of Old New Things. Can we learn from them? Probably. Will we learn from them? Probably not. But it’s worth remembering them anyway, from time to time. And so I give you this highly idiosyncratic list of yesterday’s tomorrows from the twenty-teens:
2010


Chatroulette was perhaps the most mayfly-ish of all the once-new things. It launched in November 2009. Three months later it was a cultural event. Three months after that its creator was the subject of a length New Yorker profile. Three months after that it shut down. Then it came back, but by then, no one cared..

The BlackBerry PlayBook was, and this may be hard to believe, awaited with great anticipation. It was going to be BlackBerry’s big comeback. It was going to dominate the tablet space. It was the subject of my very first TechCrunch post. And it … couldn’t do email unless tethered to a BlackBerry phone. RIP, PlayBook.

2011


The Arab Spring was the world’s first social-media-driven revolution, agreed everyone breathlessly. (Including me.) The problem is, with the exception of Tunisia, the world is still waiting for the first successful social-media-driven revolution. The Arab Spring soon became the Arab Winter, and has become little more than a historical footnote.

Google Plus was a big deal. It was Google’s move into social media. It was Google’s Facebook killer. It was the sign that everything Google did was now social. I mean, until it completely failed. It’s still there, but it’s a ghost town.

2012


Windows Phone had an absolutely gorgeous and good-to-use new OS, Windows Phone 8, which launched this year. It had the full weight of mighty Microsoft behind it. It was aimed at the still-burgeoning smartphone market, which was not yet thought to be an entrenched duopoly. It flopped, it burned, it died.

Google Glass was supposed to be the harbinger of widespread augmented reality and wearable computing. Instead it became most notable for prompting the coinage of the word “Glassholes.” They really, really should have added an LED to make it very apparent when its camera was reporting. I was pro-Glass in the abstract, but then I went on a multi-day dive trip (a dive trip!) with a Glasshole. Yeesh. Five years later, the world is still waiting for its harbinger of widespread augmented reality.

2013


Upworthy was the most viral news site on the Internet, with a signature much-mocked, much-maligned, much-copied headline format, a social conscience, and a hockey-stick growth graph. Then the hockey stick inverted and the readers grew bored. Nowadays, a layoff or two later like every other struggling news site, it says it’s focusing on video.

The Snowden Revelations seemed immensely consequential when they happened. And they certainly did change the ongoing conversation about state surveillance vs. encryption. But if you look at what’s actually changed since then, you’ll find … not very much. One can certainly argue that this is because he prevented things from getting even worse; and in truth he remains a hero of mine.
But this is on the list because we thought then that it was the opening shot in the defining political conflict of the future, that of the battle against authoritarian surveillance state and surveillance capitalism. It turns out, post- Brexit and Trump, that that is only a sideshow; the future’s real political battle is between cosmopolitan multiculturalism vs. xenophobic ethno-nationalism. We would have been shocked and horrified to learn that in that long-ago innocent year of 2013.


2014


Yo, an app which literally just sent the notification “Yo” to its users in response to events, caused me to coin Yo’s Law. It caused others to wax eloquent about the virtues of single-bit communications. And then it faded away and was soon forgotten.

Secret was a big deal, it was controversial, it was such a big hit that it was funded by venture capitalists who were happy to give $6 million of the money in question directly to the founders rather than to the company. And then we all lost interest.

2015


Yik Yak was a big deal, it was controversial, it was such a big hit, it was valued at $400 million, etc etc etc. Farewell, Yik Yak.

Meerkat was all anyone in tech could talk about for a few months. It was the toast of SXSW. It was  huge on Product Hunt. Live video broadcasts were going to change everything. RIP Meerkat.

2016


The DAO, or Distributed Autonomous Organization, was the first really big app built on the Ethereum blockchain. It was going to make money by investing in other apps built on the Ethereum blockchain. It raised $150 million. Then it turned out its code had a bug that let a hacker siphon that money out. You have to admit, after reading all of the above, that this is a much more interesting way to crash and burn than just bleeding MAUs until nobody wants to fund you anymore! Alas for The DAO.

Chatbots were last year’s Next Big Thing. Some people still believe they are this year’s, or next year’s, Next Big Thing. I cheated on TechCrunch to explain why those people are wrong for my first publishing love The Walrus more than a year ago. Still waiting for a counterexample to prove me wrong. Suspect I’m gonna be waiting for a long time…

What can we learn from this? Maybe that the nadir of sugar-water smartphone apps is, thankfully, behind us, in 2014 and 2015, finally replaced by more interesting technologies. Maybe that Google was flailing a little for a few years there, but has since stabilized. Maybe that the notion that connecting the world would change it for the better, politically, faded away after the first few years of this decade, replaced by the grim reality of increasing loggerhead political polarization. And maybe that what seemed like the onrushing future can turn into the quaint past with amazing speed.
Something happened to social media recently. I don’t know exactly when things changed, but almost overnight, randomly scrolling through feeds became a lot less enjoyable. Flame-wars, bad news, fake news, worse news and anxiety-fueling comment sections meant that social media is no longer the escapism it once was. Along comes Binky counter all of that, creating the ultimate anti-social media app.
Binky gives you a social media feed to interact with. Posts are called Binks. You can comment on stuff, you can like the things you enjoy, you can even re-Bink things. You can even swipe right and left on stuff, if that’s your preferred UI for expressing your desires or hang-ups.
Nothing else matters
All right, grumpy. Calm down.
The twist is that nothing you do makes it out into the real world; all your liking, re-Binking and swiping is completely, utterly, unavoidably futile. It’s kind of like being in space, where nobody can hear you scream. Except without having to drop a quarter of a mil on a ticket.
“It started out as a joke,” Dan Kurtz, the app’s creator says. “I was doing a satire on the moments when you’re flicking through your apps because you’ve got nothing better to do. Facebook is too much anger, stress and sadness, but you want to do something on your phone. Binky solves the problem where you want to scroll through something, but nothing in particular.”
From there, the joke started gathering steam, into a kid-safe Fischer-Price version of a social media app. When Kurtz started showing the app off to friends, people started pointing out that it wasn’t as pointless as it seemed.
“As soon as I started showing it to people, they said it felt a little bit like a nicotine patch for social media,” Kurtz said. “I put it out on the app store, and then the guy who made Cow Clicker — itself a satire on Farmville — ended up writing an article about it, and the rest is history.”
So… Is this a joke? A piece of performance art? A tool for kicking social media withdrawals symptoms without having to take a sledgehammer to your WiFi box? Is it, perchance the philosophically polar opposite to Yo, ready to raise a chunk of cash at a ridiculous valuation at a moment’s notice?
Perhaps it’s a little bit of all of the above. Most of all it strikes me as a commentary on what drives us to pick up our phones every twenty seconds. In particular, perhaps it will succeed in making us consider what actually makes us happy. When shouting into Twitter, Facebook and the various comment fields around the ‘net loses its luster, perhaps Binky is the perfect app after all: A no-cost, instant gratification, visually-enhanced habit-reinforcing fidget spinner for the social-media addicts among us.
“I am enjoying keeping the joke going,” Kurtz says, and suggests maybe he can start building a brand around and community around Binky. He laughs: “the joke gets better the more serious I take it, so if you know anyone who wants to put their money where their sense of humor is, I’m open to conversations with investors too.”
The app is free on iOS, and Kurtz suggests that an Android version is in the pipeline.
“Man fighting in the middle of town” may not be the Grand Theft Auto VI we’ve been waiting for, but it’s the one 2017 deserves.
The iOS game, which launched its 1.0 version yesterday initially piqued my attention through its perhaps-not-quite fair use of Grand Theft Auto V screenshots as the app icon and description photos. My hopes that someone had snuck a free port of GTA V into the App Store were quickly dashed against the stones after downloading this title, which from its description I understood was “a game that tells a great fight inside the city for power in the city.”

“Man fighting in the middle of town” is a game all of its own, that much like Apple’s own design principles, distills an experience down to its most essential ethos. There are no menus, no maps, no health meters, simply you and your fists and a purple Hulk and the Tumbler Batmobile and ads for audible.com
Much like Grand Theft Auto V, you can move and also see things.
I also appreciated the radar, which unfortunately does not actually work. After following the radar towards one of the free Unity assets I hoped to punch in the face with my man fists, I walked off the map and fell into an abyss that forced me to close and reopen the app. I wasn’t mad, just disappointed.
I was a bit frustrated by the graphics, which the description made out to be much more ground-breaking than they actually were. “This game has a great picture because of its 3D image quality.”
Perhaps my mistake is seeing “Man fighting in the middle of town,” as a game when it is, in fact, a metaphor. For what I am not so sure, perhaps for the plight of the individual against the cult of celebrity, perhaps the poor urban planning of major city centers or, more likely, the declining standards of App Store submission vetting.
“Man fighting in the middle of town,” available now for iOS.
Update: it’s already gone :(
Ravel Law, a legal search, analytics, and visualization platform that aims to turn lawyers into data analysts, has sold itself five years after its 2012 founding.
The buyer: the New York-based legal research giant LexisNexis, which is paying an undisclosed sum for the company and whose tech it plans to incorporate into its own products.
Ravel, based in San Francisco, will continue to operate out of its current office, with its current 21-person team.
Ravel was originally founded in a dorm room at Stanford Law School and it had raised $14 million in funding over the years, including from X Fund, New Enterprise Associates, North Bridge Venture Partners, Work-Bench and Ulu Ventures.
Cofounder Daniel Lewis has more on the deal and what he’s hoping the merger will mean for Ravel — including far reach among legal professionals — here.

 Tori Rector/Flickr UNDER A CC BY-SA 2.0 LICENSE
The Gillmor Gang — Keith Teare, Doc Searls, Denis Pombriant, and Steve Gillmor. Recorded live Friday, June 9, 2017. Enterprise Gang’s Denis Pombriant joins the Keith Gang for a vigorous rubdown of fake views and Comey’s smackdown of the Obstructor in Chief. Doc offers a biting indictment of tracking and kudos to Apple for its Safari fix for adtech fatigue. Is Google listening?
@stevegillmor, @dsearls, @DenisPombriant, @kteare
Produced and directed by Tina Chase Gillmor @tinagillmor
Liner Notes
Live chat stream
The Gillmor Gang on Facebook
Joanna Glasner
Contributor



Joanna Glasner is a reporter for Crunchbase.

			More posts by this contributor:			
The state of the unicorn
CrunchBase Spotlight: Data hints at down rounds, but not wipeout, for marketplace lending



The top startup accelerators have a history of seeing the future in ideas that sounded silly at the time. After all, who would have foreseen billion-dollar businesses based on renting your air mattress to strangers, or shopping for their groceries?
So when prestigious accelerators invest around common themes, it’s worth taking note of what’s resonating.
With that in mind, we mined Crunchbase data on new seed investments by top-ranked accelerators, looking for similarities in their vision of where consumer and enterprise tech is headed. The data set looks for companies that raised first-time funding in the past six months from accelerators in North America with a standout record for backing startups that go on to secure much higher valuations.
Here are the startup trends that are capturing the imaginations, and wallets, of top accelerators.
AI bots for businesses are big
The bots will help you. Accelerator-backed startups are building a lot of AI-enabled tools to help businesses with customer support, sales and marketing. There’s Claire, a bot for testing consumer products and ad campaigns, and Scribe, an AI-powered “sales development representative” that can identify new leads.
For customer support, there is Eloquent Labs, which uses AI to augment and replace live chat customer support agents at e-commerce companies. And if you are an airline and in need of better customer support (which is pretty much every airline), there’s Techstars-backed ICM Hub, a developer of “artificially intelligent virtual agents.” These are just a few of the AI-enabled business apps that raised seed funding this past year.
The rise of the AI-powered consumer digital assistants
It may sound far-fetched in 2017 to trust your finances to an AI-powered digital assistant with a cutesy name, but accelerators are betting that in a few years, that’s going to change. One case in point is Penny, a Y Combinator-backed mobile app that functions as a personal finance coach. It’s one of several personal finance apps accelerators are rolling out.
Real estate gets more temporary, efficient and on demand
Sure, you can still show up in person and sign a long-term lease on a home, office or shop. But a lot of startups are coming up with both simpler and more temporary ways to secure space. Perhaps part of the impetus is that two of the most famous and valuable private venture-backed companies — Airbnb and WeWork — are real estate-related, so it’s a proven sector for generating a massive valuation.
It’s entirely possible that technologies initially targeted for one industry will end up deployed in another.
 
On the temporary space front, there’s Bulletin, which pitches itself as “WeWork for retail space,” and LoftSmart, which finds rentals for students. On the efficiency side, Ikos is aiming to make renting easier for residential landlords, while Rezi pays landlords directly to rent their apartments. See a fuller list of accelerator-backed real estate startups here.
Taking smart transportation to the next level
Alongside increased interest in smart buildings, ride hailing, mapping apps and real-time traffic updates have already done much in the past few years to transform how we get around town. Now, accelerators are hoping to take things to the next level.
A number of transport startups have launched with an analytics focus, such as Revmax, a vehicle routing tool, and Gridwise, which helps ride-hailing drivers maximize earnings. And for those worried that all these mapping and traffic analytics tools are making for inattentive, screen-gazing motorists, there’s Text to Ticket, which lets users submit videos of distracted drivers.
Pivots come next
Interesting as many of these startups seem, it’s worth noting that hardly any accelerator-backed startup grows up into a big company without at least a few dozen business model pivots along the way. So it’s entirely possible that technologies initially targeted for one industry will end up deployed in another.
For now, however, we can sit back and enjoy (or fear) the vision of a future chatting with humanoid bots en route to one’s temporary home or office using the most efficient route that technology can provide.
Illustration: Li-Anne Dias
Today, Electronic Arts will kick off E3 2017 with a live press conference, which you can watch right here.
EA makes some of the most popular games in the world, like The Sims, Battlefield, Madden, FIFA, Titan Fall, and the studio is sure to deliver even more goodness today.
We expect to see at least one Star Wars title, and potentially a new FIFA. But the bigger question remains: Will EA build anything spectacular for the new Nintendo Switch?
We’ll find out at Noon PT / 3pm ET, and you can too by following along on the live stream below.

You can also watch on Twitch.
Check out our full coverage here.

 Jean Chung/Getty Images
The founder of one of Silicon Valley’s most famous flameouts, anonymous social app Secret, is the new product lead for Postmates’ app. After Secret shut down and gave investors back their money, David Byttow went on to raise a $1 million seed round from Index to launch a blog publishing tool for enterprises called Bold.
Today Bold was acqhired by Postmates, Byttow confirmed to TechCrunch, with he and co-founder Ben South Lee (also formerly of Secret) joining the delivery startup. Bold will shut down, killing off its enterprise blogging tool and writing assistant, plus the anonymous publishing space IO.


Very excited to welcome @davidbyttow and @SirBenLee to the Postmates family.
— Bastian Lehmann (@Basti) June 10, 2017



Byttow will lead product for Postmates’ customer-facing app, while Lee leads design for it. “Postmates is gonna slay” Byttow DMed me, elaborating that “I think Postmates is in a very unique position to leapfrog itself and continue be the leader in the on-demand delivery space. That’s why Ben and I joined!” Postmates confirmed the acquisition to us, and pointed to CEO Bastian Lehmann’s tweet above welcoming Byttow and Lee to the team. 
In Secret’s hyped-up heyday, it raised a $25 million Series B. Byttow notoriously took $3 million off the table during the round and convinced co-founder Chrys Bader-Wechsler to do the same. The idea was that the cash would make Secret’s founders less likely to sell the company early. Instead, less than a year later, Secret had imploded, raising questions about the practice of founders cashing out early.
But clearly Silicon Valley is willing to forgive such behavior if someone has the necessary skills in today’s competitive recruiting market. Postmates is trusting Byttow and Lee at a critical time for the company. Having raised a $160 million Series D last year, Postmates must prove it can build a sustainable business despite the on-demand delivery space’s tough unit economics.
Once upon a time, Byttow convinced 15 million to use a controversial app in another risky market. Postmates will have to hope Byttow can similarly drive traction of its app while letting someone else handle the business.
Advertisement		


We’ve all heard the predictions that artificial intelligence, and by extension robotics, is gunning for our jobs.
Indeed, as technology marches relentlessly forward, it feels like many of today’s positions could soon be displaced. But just as with past technological inflection points — whether the steam engine, the telegraph, the computer or even industrial robots — technology will always give as much as it takes, as it always has.
That matters little to people who have lost their jobs though. You could argue that the current political climate is due, at least in part, to economic changes driven by technology being created in Silicon Valley. Yet for all of the rhetoric, there are millions of jobs going unfilled in the US today simply because people lack the requisite skills.
Instead of a net job loss, that could mean the nature of work is simply changing. While some of the past jobs won’t be coming back because of economic shifts, market dynamics and, yes, technology; the next generation of employment will likely require much higher-level skills, and we are going to need retraining continually over our entire working lives.
Perhaps technology, which is at least partly responsible for the problem, could help us out of this quagmire. And, in fact, we may actually be on the edge of finding an answer in the form of augmented and mixed reality. While no single piece of technology is likely to be a panacea, AR could be part of an overall solution to help prepare and train workers for the next generation of jobs. And that’s a start.
The new reality
Photo: Microsoft
Imagine putting on a pair of glasses that can understand where you are in time and space and being shown a diagram, a set of instructions or even a 3D hologram that overlays the office or shop floor in front of you, and then steps you through a process you’ve never done before. AR could do that.
While virtual reality completely immerses you in a virtual world, augmented reality, as the name implies, acts as a layer on top of the world in front of you. You are still in the room, and you can still see your desk or your living room or the factory, but there is additional information being projected onto the scene you are seeing.
Pokemon Go was the first real consumer-driven example of AR and it was a great proof of concept, which helped popularize the idea for a mass market. And just as Pokemon Go simply used a smartphone or tablet as the AR interface, not a pair of special glasses hardware, much of the early use of AR in business involves simply holding up a tablet or smartphone to project the information over the world. As we move forward though and the tech evolves, wearable hardware will enable employees to work hands-free and that has the potential to be much more powerful.
Photo: Stefan Etienne/TechCrunch
In a recent report, Tractica, a research firm focused on robotics, AI and wearables (among other topics), sees augmented and mixed reality headsets having great utility in an enterprise or industrial setting.
“AR headsets provide an ideal UI for hands-free operation, with the device at eye level, presenting information when needed. AR headsets can also bring powerful first-person views, which are valuable hands-free resources for field force automation, training, or maintenance jobs,” the Tractica report stated.
Tractica further divides the market into what it has termed “mixed reality,” which it defines as having “positional tracking and depth sensors to provide a more immersive experience, enabling interactions with holographic objects.”.text .crunchreport h3 {color:#fff}

		Latest Crunch Report 







Element Raises $102 Million | Crunch Report





Watch More Episodes



Among the vendors in this space looking at business use cases, perhaps the best known is Microsoft Hololens, and while Microsoft has a big headstart in terms of hype and reach, the market is still developing with smaller companies like Meta, Osterhout Design Group (ODG) and Daqri, among others also trying to make a play.
It’s worth noting that Facebook announced an augmented reality tool to create customized image filters at F8 in April, while a third-party developer, Amber Garage, announced HoloKit earlier this month to build mixed reality content for Google Cardboard and Apple released an AR content creation platform at the recent WWDC event. Samsung is also working on MR tools and you can bet that Amazon could enter the fray at some point too. While these tools appear to be aimed mostly at consumers, it’s not unlikely they could be used for business too.
While Tractica remains cautious, especially given that the market is still in the earliest stages and is being defined as we speak, it is still predicting some pretty substantial growth over the next several years. Keep in mind that some of that growth will be driven by consumers as well as business, and it doesn’t break out the different market segments.

Teaching tool
Exactly how much AI and robotics will displace jobs is subject to debate, but it will have some impact, that much is clear. The question is how do we minimize the effect and use AR/MR to provide workers with new skills.
Brian Ballard, CEO at Upskill (formerly known as APX Labs), a firm that wants to be the operating system for virtual and augmented reality, says we are at a point where we are seeing a convergence of humans and machines and we don’t really have a good form factor to engage in that. As he sees it, when you train people in a classroom, you end up with some displacement, as you take the worker out of the context of their work.

Photo: Daqri
“At a base level people need more skills to do their jobs,” he says. “What we see in real life is that there is a way to get better information right way and it’s always available to see,” he added. That better way involves using AR glasses to place the information in context right in front of the employee.
Brian Mullins, CEO at Daqri, makers of mixed reality headsets, sees these devices as a way to bridge the skills gap and train workers for new jobs. “Augmented reality is a modern technology that is human focused, and when done right, focused on knowledge transfer. You can show a worker how to do something that they didn’t know, and give them actionable information to make the right decisions,” he explained. And that could make for a very powerful training tool.
Putting AR to work
While AR is still in the early stages of development and most training solutions remain in the experimental stage, what we have seen so far shows great promise to speed up the learning process. It’s going to be up to the vendors, content producers and users to take us the rest of the way.
For instance, GE is working on technology with Hololens to teach people without a medical background to use an ultrasound machine and identify the correct organ. It’s still very much in the experimental stage, but it is a clear example of using mixed reality to teach people a given skill and give them immediate feedback to help them learn to use it effectively over time.
Further, research conducted by Boeing, a company that has been working with AR to increasing efficiency on certain jobs like creating wired hubs for airplanes, has shown that workers who use AR for training purposes are more productive, more accurate and they are more satisfied with the experience. That’s right, they enjoyed learning this way, as opposed to be lectured at in a classroom, and trying to recall what they learned when they are back on the job.

Crunchbase






				DAQRI			


 
Founded
2010


Overview
DAQRI is the world’s leading enterprise augmented reality company powering the future of work through innovative hardware and software products. DAQRI’s flagship product, DAQRI SMART HELMET, is improving efficiency and safety for workers on the job and providing unparalleled cost savings for Fortune 500 companies in industrial and manufacturing settings. DAQRI has six offices globally, including …


Location

Los Angeles, CA



Categories

Augmented Reality, 																													Hardware, 																													Enterprise Software, 																													Internet of Things 


Founders
Brian Mullins, Gaia Dempsey


Website

http://daqri.com 


Full profile for DAQRI 



 



				Dell			


 
Founded
1984


Overview
Dell is transforming computing and providing high quality solutions that empower people to do more all over the world.


Location

Round Rock, TX



Categories

Consumer Electronics, 																													Hardware, 																													Manufacturing 


Website

https://www.delltechnologies.com 


Full profile for Dell 



 



				General Electric (GE)			


 
Founded
1878


Overview
General Electric Company offers infrastructure and financial services worldwide. It operates in various segments, including power and water, oil and gas, energy management, aviation, healthcare, transportation, appliances and lighting, GE capital, and more.

Its power and water segment offers gas, steam and aeroderivative turbines, nuclear reactors, generators, combined cycle systems, controls, and …


Location

Fairfield, CT



Categories

Finance, 																													FinTech, 																													Electronics 


Website

http://www.ge.com 


Full profile for General Electric (GE) 



 



				HoloLens			


 
Description
HoloLens introduces a new era of holographic computing.


Website
http://www.microsoft.com/microsoft-hololens/en-us


Full profile for HoloLens 









The study, conducted in conjunction with Iowa State University, looked at building a wing-like assembly. Participants were mostly from the campus community and some were given instructions on a desktop computer in the corner of the room with a pdf drawing, some on a tablet with an adjustable arm, but also with a static pdf, and finally some used an AR system with 3D immersive instructions with animations. What they found is that the error rate was dramatically higher on the desktop, better on the tablet and lowest using VR.
Chart: Paul Davies, Boeing 
 
Daqri took that Boeing experiment one step further, conducting more of a real-world proof of concept with Siemens  and generated similarly positive results using AR to train workers to service wind and gas turbines. Without using Daqri’s AR helmet it normally took a novice employee (someone just learning the task) 480 minutes to complete their first assembly. Using AR cut that down to 45-52 minutes, a dramatic decrease by any measure.
 
Chart: Daqri
In another related real-world example, Walmart announced plans to use virtual reality to help train workers using content from STRIVR Labs. While this is using VR and 360 degree video to train Walmart employees on management and customer service using Oculus Rift headsets, this could evolve into more of a mixed reality approach over time.
Scaling for the enterprise
Of course, it’s one thing to do conduct an AR experiment, it’s another entirely to move into an enterprise setting with repeatable processes, connected to proper back-end systems like inventory, ERP and other complex legacy systems in place in just about every large company.
In fact, Daqri and Dell announced a partnership last month where Dell will help sell AR in the enterprise using Daqri headsets, according to Neil Hand, VP Product Strategy & Innovation at Dell. He says, a big part of getting together with Daqri was to begin looking at areas that could take advantage of this kind of tech.
“Being able to do it in a scalable easy way is a large part of why we have created a unique program. We’ve done it before in other technology areas. How do you take a new technology and get it into the hands of more customers,” he explained.
It includes working with Daqri on the AR parts, while Dell acts as a consultant of sorts that helps connect to backend systems. Of course, if they can sell some Dell hardware along the way such as using the Daqri headset in conjunction with Dell workstations, all the better.
While the companies are hoping it takes off, Daqri has already identified a workflow for implementing AR that involves working in real environments, designing solutions around the user and his or her needs, developing the right UX for the job, measuring the results and expanding into other areas.
Of course even with all of that, for now, AR is still a nascent technology, but in the coming years if the markets begin to develop as predicted, it could have a role inside of enterprises helping train workers to stay relevant in a shifting economy and preparing the next generation of employees for whatever comes next.

SoftBank is buying robotics firms Boston Dynamics and Schaft from Alphabet
Pandora raises $480M from SiriusXM, sells Ticketfly to Eventbrite for $200M
Taylor Swift embraces streaming, brings full catalog to Spotify and more

Credits
Written by: Tito Hamze, John MannesHosted by: Tito HamzeFilmed by: Tito HamzeEdited by: Gregory Manalo
Notes:

I don’t know what to wear on Crunch Report (It’s a hard decision and I suck at dressing myself). If you are a startup and want to me to wear something mail me an XL T-shirt and I’ll wear it in an episode. I’m not going to mention the company on the shirt in the episode but it will be there. No offensive stuff, it’s totally at my discretion if I wear it. Mail it to me. Thanks <3 Ok, bye.

TechCrunch C/O Tito Hamze
410 Townsend street
Suite 100
San Francisco Ca. 94107
Uber’s soon-to-be former head of finance, Gautam Gupta, is set to join real estate startup Opendoor as its first-ever chief operating officer, Axios reports.
News of Gupta’s upcoming departure from Uber, along with data on Uber’s revenues, came late last month. Gupta is leaving Uber in July, after four years of working at the transportation company in business and finance roles.
Uber has been without a chief financial officer since 2015, when Brent Callinocos left and later joined Hyperloop One. Uber has been looking for a CFO at least since the end of May.
Opendoor, founded in 2014, has raised $320 million in funding. With Gupta, along with two other new hires (former Amazon executives Jason Child and Bali Raghavan) on board, Opendoor plans to expand into additional markets, according to Axios.
I’ve reached out to Opendoor and will update this story if I hear back.
Gadget reviewer Doug Aamoth has the ultimate physique – a perfect blend of a world-class body builder mixed with an elite triathlete mixed with an undefeated karate champion. So how does he stay so fit, yet travel so light?
Amazon has quietly launched a new feature offering shoppers personalized suggestions of products they might like to buy. Called “My Mix,” the addition is tied to Amazon’s “Interesting Finds” — the curated gift shop introduced last year that provides a Pinterest-like experience for discovering products across Amazon’s vast website.
“Interesting Finds,” which evolved out of an earlier product called “Amazon Stream,” is the latest in Amazon’s efforts to become a place where shoppers browse and get inspired, instead of a place where you search for products you know you already need or want.
Similar to startups like the shopping service Canopy, this section of Amazon’s website has evolved in recent months from a simple page with just a few categories (Women, Men and Fun) to one that now organizes products into more than two dozen different sections.
It also is no longer tucked away under hidden menus, but prominently featured at the top of Amazon.com via a big banner ad.
On the site, you browse through products within its category pages, which can be as broad as “Women,” as popular as “Bikes,” or as niche as “Mid-Century.” There also are collections on each page that are like mini-shops with a grouping of themed items — like “Travel in Style,” “Fun with Photos” or “Green Thumb,” for example.
You can favorite both the items and the shops, then return to them later under the “My Hearts” section. Or you can purchase items immediately by clicking through to the product detail page and checking out.

More recently, Amazon added a feature called “My Mix,” which is informed by your favoriting activity. As you like more items across “Interesting Finds,” Amazon builds you a custom shop with other items it thinks you might like, too.
These suggestions are better than the Amazon.com homepage recommendations, which are directly tied to your past purchases and browsing history — those have become more of a stale reminder of things you just bought or still need to purchase. “My Mix” suggestions are more… well, fun.
The personalized shop is found at the beginning of the scrollable bar of category pages on the “Interesting Finds” site, and has a little red notification dot beside it when there are new items in your shop.
As the page explains, as you like (heart) new items in the shop and across Interesting Finds, your “My Mix” shop will also update with new product suggestions. The shop is refreshed several times a day, says Amazon.
After you look through your personalized recommendations, you can continue exploring more products from “Interesting Finds” by scrolling down. This turns into an endless page of products on both web and mobile — you never reach the bottom of the page as more products are added with each scroll.

Having used “Interesting Finds” for some time, I have to admit it has impacted my Pinterest use. While I still find myself on Pinterest for broader “ideas” — like decorating tips, nail colors or crafts — in terms of seeking product inspiration that translates into actual purchases, “Interesting Finds” can be a little addictive, I found.
That being said, the suggestions on “My Mix” weren’t 100 percent successful. Some were just “Hearts” I had already saved, while others were similar products to those I had favorited before. And they didn’t seem to take into account my past purchases. For example, I was looking for a new travel toiletry bag earlier, had found one via “Interesting Finds, and bought it. But my “My Mix” continues to offer toiletry bag suggestions. Ah, nope — I’m good now, thanks!
Amazon tells us “My Mix” uses a number of sources to determine what to show.
“We don’t filter anything out by vendor or by price; it is all based on what customers have previously hearted,” a spokesperson explained. “The items in ‘My Mix’ are refreshed numerous times throughout the day, so customers should heart anything they want to save because they probably won’t be there when they come back.”
While “My Mix” may need some improvements, it functions well as a quicker way to browse Amazon’s “Interesting Finds” product suggestions, without requiring you to click through each category page.
“Interesting Finds” launched on the desktop last June, and then arrived on iPhone in November, and Android in December. The “My Mix” feature, which launched in May, is available on desktop, iOS and Android.
Apple just unveiled Business Chat, its bid to turn iMessage into a communication platform that can compete with Facebook Messenger – and perhaps, make iMessage one of the main ways you interact with businesses.
The company quietly announced the service earlier this week with an update to its developer site, but few details were available at the time. Today was the real introduction, with a session at Apple’s Worldwide Developer Conference.
Business Chat will be part of iOS 11, allowing individuals to open an iMessage window from Safari, Maps, Spotlight, or Siri, and start a conversation with a business. Those conversations will include basic text chats, but Apple is also offering support and structure for more complex interactions, like scheduling an appointment.
In fact, Business Chat may be the most promising opportunity for iMessage’s App Store. The idea is that businesses can include some of their app capabilities within a chat. For example, Apple showed off a conversation where the consumer could actually choose their airline seat without having to open a separate app.
Business Chat will be integrated with other customer service products — the initial partners are LivePerson, Salesforce, Nuance and Genesys. In the case of LivePerson, CEO Robert LoCascio told me that businesses will be able manage their Business Chat conversations alongside their other customer service messages from within the LivePerson product.
Ultimately, LoCascio said, LivePerson’s goal is to “eliminate” voice interactions when it comes to customer service and sales. Business Chat moves the industry closer to that goal, he said — the key is that the conversations are fully encrypted, allowing companies to include “real business processes”. And since Business Chat includes support for Apple Pay, that means customers can actually browse and buy products from within the chat.
“I really think this changes how consumers are engaging with businesses,” LoCascio said.
 And while much of the discussion around Facebook Messenger has centered on chatbots, LivePerson’s Rurik Bradbury argued that Apple is “focused on trying to create a human experience.” There’s the simple fact that the customer, not the business, has to initiate the conversation.
Plus, Bradbury said the launch version of Business Chat is limited to human-to-human conversations, no chatbots involved (though of course Apple could add chatbot support in the future).
Apple is now allowing developers and businesses to test and create integrations with Business Chat.
A top augmented reality startup is suing its former head of optics for breach of contract and misappropriation of trade secrets in the creation of his own AR company.
Meta, which builds augmented reality hardware and software, filed suit earlier this week in a Northern California court against former employee Zhangyi Zhong, his company DreamWorld and 20 unnamed defendants.
The lawsuit alleges that Zhong “shamelessly leveraged” his time at the company to “misappropriate confidential and trade secret information relating to Meta’s technologies, supply chain, manufacturing methods and relationships, as well as business, investment and market strategies,” in the creation of his augmented reality startup, DreamWorld.
Zhong joined Meta in March of 2015 as a Senior Optical Engineer before his “abrupt resignation” in July of 2016.
Meta has raised more than $73 million in funding for its AR systems from top investors, including Y Combinator, Tencent, Comcast Ventures and Lenovo.
The San Mateo-based company has built a tethered augmented reality device, the “Meta 2,” which boasts a much wider field-of-view (FoV) than competitors, though its optics rely on less complex (and less expensive) technologies than the waveguide displays used by products like Microsoft’s HoloLens.
While Meta 2 has an FoV measured at around 90-degrees, Zhong claims that his company’s DreamGlass device will have an FoV of 100-degrees. Dreamworld plans to launch pre-orders for the device soon at a price of $350. The Meta 2 development kit currently costs $949.

Meta also claims that Zhong is using Meta’s “market penetration strategy.”
While competitors like Microsoft are using the early generations of their hardware to prove out its SLAM mapping technologies while implementing expensive technologies that it hopes to miniaturize and improve, Meta seems to have focused a great deal of its effort on utilizing accessible hardware technologies to bring more robust visual user experiences to developers initially and secure interest while continuing to build out and miniaturize its technologies.
In the suit, Meta detailed that it has been creating versions of its optical engine that have wider field-of-views in smaller form factors than its current offering while it has also been exploring the idea of powering future headsets off of mobile devices rather than PCs.
Thought the lawsuit details that “Meta believes in free and fair competition in the augmented reality marketplace,” the suit alleges that Zhong had no experience with some of the technologies central to the DreamGlass device before joining Meta. Zhong is listed as an inventor on a patent related to Meta’s “Wide field of view head-mounted display apparatuses, methods and systems.”
Oddly, the suit also alleges that Zhong attempted to obscure his identity by changing his nickname from “Johnny” to “Kevin” after leaving the company, while not updating his LinkedIn profile to reflect his new position as CEO of DreamWorld.
Meta did not provide further comment on the lawsuit. We have reached out for comment from DreamWorld.
Home improvement platform Houzz continues to grow, and is in the process of raising another huge round of funding. The company confirms that it is raising $400 million in new financing, at a valuation that multiple reports peg at around $4 billion.
Founded in 2009, Houzz provides a platform to help users renovate and remodel their homes, as well as providing tools for finding furniture and fixtures they might want to purchase. The company has users all over the world, in markets that include the U.S., U.K., Australia, France, Germany, Russia, Japan, Italy, Spain, Sweden and Denmark.
It makes money mostly through paid listings for local home professionals and service providers, but has been delving more deeply into direct commerce through the introduction of deep learning and AR products it’s added to its website and mobile apps.
Last fall it introduced a deep learning tool that analyzes home photos added to the site and enables users to search for and purchase comparable products directly from the page. It also added an AR feature to its mobile app that enables users to preview what new pieces of furniture might look like in a certain place in their home.
The newest funding round, which Recode reported is being led by Iconiq, comes on top of more than $200 million that Houzz had raised from investors that include Sequoia, New Enterprise Associates, GGV Capital and others.

 Steve Jennings/Getty Images
If you’re into the booming eSports scene, you’ve heard of HyperX. Their prevalence at professional gaming tournaments as the de facto gaming headphones for pros is difficult to deny, especially if you actually watch eSports.
My interest grew, but I was still surprised that the Revolver S, a Dolby 7.1 surround sound gaming headset, made such a positive impression on me. As soon as I started playing online, sounds produced by sense of immersion are easy to identify, but aren’t overwhelming at higher or lower volumes.
Dolby (and gaming headsets) done right



The most interesting aspect about this HyperX headset for me, is its poster child look for what a pair of gaming headphones should be.
It means having an accessible price, a detailed sound profile (i.e. to hear  opponent’s in-game footsteps) and using a composite of materials giving it heft and quality. I’d expect all of this from a good gaming headset, especially if the headset in question is designed by a gaming company, rather than say, an audio company with a gaming branch.
Sennheiser’s PC 373D headset — which I concluded wasn’t worth your time and sounded better with its Dolby function turned off — was the exact opposite experience to what I’ve seen (and heard) with the Revolver S.
But aesthetics and great sound quality in both listening modes is dependent on the execution; how you’re able to use it. The Revolver S is truly plug-and-play via USB, doesn’t require an upgraded sound card or even software drivers to use. Once you plug it in, you have direct volume, Dolby mode and muting controls built in-line with the cable.
What more could you want?
Bottom Line

This is the pair of PC gaming headphones that I’d recommend. It works well in both stereo and Dolby sound modes, offers the user tons of control, sports solid build quality and costs less than other Dolby gaming headphones it competes with.
In fact, if you’re not a gamer and simply want Dolby headphones, there’s nothing stopping you here. The design isn’t overtly edgy (as most gaming accessories tend to be) and has a microphone that can be removed from the rest of the unit, making it somewhat modular.
The Revolver S makes me happy to use it, from a session of Battlefield 1 to the weekly Beats 1 list. That’s something I can’t say for most of the gear I test and write about on a daily basis.
Price as Reviewed: $149 at Amazon
In the wake of a spate of terror attacks across Europe, regional interior ministers have been talking tough on tech. Encryption is one technology that’s been under fire from certain quarters.
There also has been renewed discussion about ways to speed up how law enforcement agencies request data from tech companies — so called e-evidence — even when the requesting force is sited in a different EU country to where the tech firm is based.
The original intent with e-evidence proposals was aimed at removing barriers to investigating cybercrime, although yesterday the EC’s Justice Commissioner Vera Jourová suggested such moves are important for counterterrorism efforts, too.
The core issue is the length of time it takes for law enforcement agencies to access data from cloud services located in another EU member state. The European Commission committed to addressing the e-evidence issue as far back as April 2015, but is just now reaching the proposing solutions stage of the process.
Yesterday, at a meeting in Brussels, EU justice ministers discussed commission proposals aimed at expediting data requests across the region, Reuters reports, agreeing that a legislative approach is needed (although not yet on what the exact approach will be).
Three options are being discussed, with Jourová telling the news agency that one is the possibility for police to copy data directly from the cloud — aka direct access. Albeit, she couched this as an “emergency possibility” — such as for situations where authorities do not know the location of the server hosting the data or if there is a risk of data being lost.
Another option would see companies obliged to turn over data if requested by law enforcement authorities in other member countries.
While the third, least intrusive option would involve allowing law enforcement authorities in one EU member state to ask an IT provider in another to turn over electronic evidence without having to ask that member state first.
According to an EC spokesperson, justice ministers were most focused on so-called “production orders” — i.e. measures to compel the cloud service provider to produce the requested data — at the meeting, although direct access to cloud services was also discussed.
The latter measure could be difficult to square with the region’s data protection and privacy rules, however — something Jourová flagged up herself after the meeting, telling Reuters that direct access would require “additional safeguards protecting the privacy of people,” such as requiring that law enforcement requests are necessary and proportionate.
“You simply cannot massively collect some digital data for some future use,” she added.
In December, Europe’s top court ruled that governments in the region cannot place “general and indiscriminate” data retention requirements on communications service providers — a ruling that stemmed from a legal challenge to earlier U.K. surveillance legislation (but which also casts doubt on the legality of the U.K.’s current investigatory powers regime). So the EC will clearly need to tread carefully if it’s intending to draft a direct access law.
A commission spokesperson told us that based on the discussion between Justice ministers it will prepare a legislative proposal by the end of this year or early 2018.
“The Commission is working on facilitating the work of law enforcement authorities in the digital age. Commissioner Jourová presented at the Justice Council three legislative options to improve access to e-evidence. She also presented some short term actions that can be taken immediately,” said the spokesman in a statement.
“Ministers all agreed that a legislative approach is needed, they mostly discussed the option of ‘production orders,’ but also measures regarding direct access. Based on their discussion, the Commission will prepare a legislative proposal by the end of this year or early 2018,” he added.
Earlier this year Jourová raised the issue of encryption as a barrier to law enforcement’s access to data — making public comments about the need for a “swift, reliable response” from encrypted apps when asked by authorities to hand over decrypted data.
Her comments back in March suggested the EC might be preparing some kind of decrypt legislation. Although when asked for clarity on its position at the time the commission told us that no decisions had been made about how to approach encryption, and discussions among justice ministers were not “very advanced.”
Asked for its current position on the technology, the EC spokesman said: “The Commission is working with experts and stakeholders at all levels to better define the challenges regarding encryption in criminal investigations and explore the possible options.”
He added that it “supports the importance of encryption for the protection of confidentiality of communication and as an essential tool for security and trust in the digital economy.”

 Shutterstock UNDER A CC BY 2.0 LICENSE
Apple has activated a new revenue stream that could foster communities of digital content creators around the world like those already thriving in China. Apple’s newly published update to its App Store policies officially designates voluntary tipping via virtual currency as in-app purchases that Apple taxes 30 percent. By taking tipping out of the grey area, more app developers might institute digital tip jars as an alternative way to get creators paid without having to offer ad revenue sharing.
Chinese live-streaming video apps like Yinke and Yizhibo have long embraced tipping, allowing viewers to tip or give virtual gifts to the stars they watch in exchange for extra attention from the performer or just as a show of gratitude. American live-streaming apps like Facebook Live and Periscope don’t offer tipping; instead, Facebook has begun letting broadcasters show ads in their streams and keep 55 percent of the revenue.
Yinke users can buy expensive virtual goods and send them to content creators, who cash out a portion of the gift’s cost. Image via A16Z
But last month, Apple cracked down on unofficial tipping, which sidestepped its 30 percent tax on in-app purchases by highlighting how the tips were donations rather than purchases. The Wall Street Journal reported Apple had told WeChat and other Chinese social apps to disable their tipping functions or be kicked out of the App Store.
Previously, there was no formal rule from Apple about how tipping was classified. Now, Apple has instituted a legitimate way to tip. As part of the App Store policy update coinciding with the developer release of iOS 11, Apple writes:
Apps may use in-app purchase currencies to enable customers to “tip” digital content providers in the app.
This means developers can add tipping features without fearing repercussions from Apple, as long as they’re willing to give the giant 30 percent. The grey area had kept tipping out of some popular apps who sought to avoid any tension with Apple. Now app makers can offer and promote tipping features with confidence. Native iOS tipping functionality could make it difficult for third-party tipping platforms to take root, though it could also spark a new trend of micropayments that are smaller than the typical $1 in-app purchase.
The developers will have to determine whether they themselves take a cut of the tips or pass the full 70 percent on to the content creators. Passing on 50 percent while taking a 20 percent cut could unlock paths to monetizing video where ads can be interruptive or tough to match with unpolished footage.



On some platforms where 100 percent of the tips were passed through, creators might be a bit bitter about the change that will dock their earnings 30 percent. That’s a big deal for stars who can pull in hundreds or even thousands of dollars per stream. But the institutionalization and potential explosion in popularity of in-app tipping could grow the pie of donations.
Thanks to tipping, musicians, comedians, artists, e-sports athletes and more risqué creators outside of China could be incentivized to make higher-quality digital content. And even if they don’t take a cut, platforms that adopt tipping could see users flock to consume it.

 Nan Palmero UNDER A Wikicommons LICENSE
If you’ve ever contributed to a charitable fundraising campaign online in the last seven years, chances are that one of those campaigns (if not all of them) have been through GoFundMe, a web platform where people can set up and donate to campaigns for charitable causes.
The popular site and the company that created it have been on a long-term growth tear: earlier this year the company passed 40 million individual donors who have made a total of $4 billion in donations, up from 30 million and $3 billion eight months ago.
And now it’s gearing up for the next step. As part of a bigger plan to become, in CEO Rob Solomon’s words, “the giving layer for the internet,” GoFundMe is expanding its operations to France and Spain, part of a bigger plan to create localized services across Europe. By the end of the summer, GoFundMe plans to be in 18 countries, up from six currently, including the U.S., Canada, Australia and the U.K.
Often, when startups embark on international expansions, it’s the result of — or the driver for — massive funding injections. This isn’t the case here. Solomon said that GoFundMe will roll out in the new markets organically (that is, no plans for acquisitions), and using proceeds from its own balance sheet, as GoFundMe has been profitable for years already.
“We’re doing this all on our own steam,” he said in an interview. On the subject of future funding, the company is not raising money right now, “but the attitude is never say never. There could be reasons such as an acquisition, but there are no proactive plans for VC investing, and the business is profitable.” (You can read more from Solomon here.)
Whether that remains the case longer term remains to be seen. The company has no plans to get acquired — which doesn’t mean that companies might have been interested regardless — and it sounds like going public is very much in its sights. “We’ve all agreed that the potential outcomes are that you get acquired or go public, and we have no intention of getting acquired,” he said in response to my question about IPOs down the line.
The company is nothing if not ambitious. “We are completely heads down focused on global expansion and building the business and creating a better service, as part of what we see as the foundational elements for a platform company,” Solomon said. “We want to be the giving layer of the internet.”
There is, in fact, a massive opportunity here. In the U.S., there is some $350 billion made annually in charitable donations, with the figure bumping up to $500 billion globally. And right now the wider landscape for connecting money to causes is massively fragmented and inefficient.
Solomon talks of a “donor graph” — not unlike Facebook’s social graph where you can figure out a map of all your connections to people and interests, or LinkedIn’s professional graph that tries to create the same picture for your work life. In GoFundMe’s case, it could be related specifically to where an individual already donates money, and what that individual cares about, and in turn where she or he might want to donate in the future.
“We think we stand a very good chance of being able to provide a platform company for that opportunity,” Solomon said.
The applications for this are potentially very interesting. For example, it can help larger nonprofits figure out which consumers would be best to target in a specific campaign, rather than spraying and praying, and potentially harming their reputation.
On the consumer side, people often find themselves in the predicament of wanting to give more to charity, but finding it hard to figure out what to do next, and feeling confident that their money really will go where it’s intended. GoFundMe potentially can provide solutions to these sorts of cases.
It’s also not a completely uncontested space. In addition to a number of competitors in the same direct area as GoFundMe (such as JustGiving), Facebook has built tools for nonprofit organizations and individuals (on behalf of those nonprofits) to fundraise for causes.
And earlier this year, Facebook also debuted a “personal fundraiser” tool that is perhaps its closest competition with GoFundMe. (Facebook’s fees are lower than those of GoFundMe, 6.9 percent + $.30 fee for payment processing fees, fundraiser vetting, security and fraud protection, versus 7.9 percent + $.30 processing for personal or charity campaigns at GoFundMe.) However, we’ve heard very little about how any of the fundraising features have been doing since they’ve launched.
Co-founded by Andrew Ballester and Brad Damphousse in 2008 in San Diego, GoFundMe sits alongside others like Kickstarter, Indiegogo and JustGiving as part of a larger crowdfunding universe, where people create campaigns to collect money and primarily use social media to attract attention for them.
The company is backed by Accel, Technology Crossover Ventures, Iconiq Capital, Greylock, Meritech and Stripes. But while it has provided a new level of transparency and ease for people to donate money, ironically GoFundMe has never disclosed just how much money it has raised itself.
To be fair, there have been donations coming in from around the world to the platform for years already. Opening up localized operations, however, means being able to take local currencies and having the site translated into specific languages, and also means more dedicated customer support and business development teams.
Some early campaigns that have been created in a limited beta in France and Spain have included efforts to help refugees, finance medical needs, save small businesses, and provide food in Somalia.
For the time being, all of GoFundMe’s European operations are being run out of Dublin, where the company set up an international office last year.
Microsoft’s digital assistant Cortana will now be able to save you money when you’re shopping online. The company announced today that it will begin a pilot test of a new Cortana feature that will pop up the best price and availability of similar products, when you’re shopping the websites of over a dozen top retailers in the U.S., including Amazon, Walmart, eBay, Best Buy, Home Depot, and others.
The savings feature will only work when you’re shopping online using Microsoft’s Edge web browser, and have the Windows 10 Creators Update installed.


Above: Cortana finds better prices
The way this works is that when you’re viewing a product detail page on one of the supported retailers’ websites, Cortana will alert you if there are better deals to be had via the browser’s address bar. This is similar to other discount-finding functionality Microsoft introduced in the past, including the ability to check if there are coupons or other savings available on the site you’re shopping. In those cases, a click on Cortana would pull up the latest deals in a sidebar on the right of the page, and provide the coupon code to use, if needed.
With the new shopping assistant functionality, the focus is not on deals but rather, price comparisons. Cortana will search across supported retailers’ pages to find if that same product is available for less elsewhere. And it will only alert you if there is, in fact, a lower price to be had.
To see the deals, you’ll click the Cortana icon in the address bar, as before. And again, the deals will appear in a pane on the right side of your window, with links to buy the product from the other website.
Of course, lower prices alone may not determine your decision of where to purchase. You may feel more comfortable with one retailer’s return policies over another, for example, or there may be better shipping deals to be had. And it doesn’t appear that Cortana takes other factors beyond the list price into consideration here, but it’s still a handy addition.
Microsoft says there are 14 retailers supported in the U.S. at launch. It didn’t provide the full list, but the screenshot shows Best Buy and Home Depot are in the running. The company says the number of supported retailers will increase in the months ahead.
The feature is just now starting to roll this out to everyone on Windows 10 Creators Update, in order for Microsoft to get user feedback.
“Everyone should take a chill pill” raged Russian President Vladimir Putin during his session at the St. Petersburg International Economic Forum last week. He was of course referring to the storm of controversy surrounding the alleged ties between Russia and the Trump Whitehouse. But Putin’s outburst reflects a wider Russian frustration. The narrative about Russia’s place in the world refuses to shift. That frustration is starting to appear in the technology industry there, where the vast, Medvedev-backed Skolkovo project to produce Russia’s answer to Silicon Valley has failed to make much of a dent on the tech world’s consciousness.
While Russian Troll Houses and alleged Russian hacking of the Democratic Party’s emails get way more air-time in the tech news industry, the startups languishing in Skolkovo’s huge tech campus, a traffic-clogged hour’s drive outside of Moscow, get precious little attention.
That’s starting to change as witnessed at TechCrunch Disrupt New York recently, which saw the Skolkovo Foundation bring a selection of startups over to the USA to exhibit. There, they exhibited typical Russian innovation such as robotics, hardware and IoT,  health and biotech, VR & AI technologies. The founders of the ten companies were looking at raising from $1 million up to $10 million investment. But this week saw the next sign of Skolkovo’s desire to try and break out of the usual narrative.
We got a preview of this last year when Prime Minister Medvedev gave a 2 hour session at Moscow’s Open Innovation Forum which, as one Kremlin-watcher I know wryly observed, amounted to “there’s no more money”. The Skolkovo Foundation has been sucking up billion of roubles in funding with not much to show for it aside from a distant, windswept science park. All that public money has now dried up — and you might well ask where to. So Skolkovo has come up with a new strategy to breathe new life into its project, namely a new private sector fund.
If the Skolkovo Foundation funded the building works and costs of a range of tech projects from a large robotics lab to autonomous buses, Skolkovo Ventures will seek to try and boost its tech companies with private capital.
Skolkovo Ventures will work in close cooperation with three local VC-funds in Russia: I2BF, iTechCapital and Primer Capital, leveraging the existing infrastructure, experience and partnership network of the Foundation in order to help portfolio companies with business Development; international expansion; access to big industrial and strategic clients. Skolkovo Ventures is effectively now a General Partner spreading itself across those funds.
It will also create a deal pipeline and treat the startups previously nurtured under the Foundation as its initial portfolio.
The three funds total $150m under management ($50m each), and will be invested over the next four years, taking on 8-15 companies, and investment anywhere between $1m and $5m a piece in Seed, A and B funding rounds.
To give an example of what these funds have done in the past, iTech Capital has participated in syndicated deals with other Russian VCs including Runa, ru-Net, Almaz, and Finam.  Some 50% of the companies it’s invested in generate foreign currency revenues; 100% of the companies are profitable; 50% of the companies are paying dividends. Skolkovo will run the back office of the fund and fundraising while the partner funds will run deal flow and investing.
Vasily Belov, senior VP of innovations at the Skolkovo Foundation has now been appointed CEO of the brand new private-sector spin out (Skolkovo Ventures). He told me “Our idea is that the three funds will help our startups with international expansion. And vice-versa. Anyone wanting to launch their tech company in Russia can talk to Skolkovo.” We’ll see about that last point I guess.
He says Skolkovo’s network of partners stretches across China, Singapore, Hong Kong as well at the Houston Tech Center, Techstars, Mass Challenge, and MIT.
Belov was previously CEO and cofounder of Russia;s largest mortgage. He says Skolkovo Ventures will not stop at this level, and aims to raise $500m by 2020, making it one of the biggest funds in Russia.
In other words, Skolkovo’s pot of public money has run dry and it’s now going to leverage its public-developed assets into a private sector investment vehicle. That move might turn heads in other countries. Not in Russia.
As the ever-jocular Mr Putin likes to say, take a chill-pill everyone, this is how things are done here.
Update: Today, Yahoo confirmed our scoop. Cahan will not continue with Yahoo post acquisition. For more on how the merge will go down check here.
Another high-profile Yahoo executive, SVP of Mobile and Emerging Products Adam Cahan, will leave the company as the acquisition by VerizOath: comes to a close. This news via multiple sources comes amid cuts of as much as 15 percent of the combined Oath/Yahoo staff.
TechCrunch is owned by Oath: which is owned by Verizon which bought Yahoo and is smushing it together with Oath: creating overlaps in jobs, hence the cuts. We’re fine, thanks for asking.
Earlier today we reported that CISO Bob Lord would also be departing. We reached out to the mothership for comment but were declined.
Cahan was a favored lieutenant of Yahoo CEO Marissa Mayer’s who scored a job as head of mobile just before Mayer acquired 30-plus teams’ worth of engineers in an acquisition spree. Cahan had come to Yahoo with the acquisition of IntoNow. The spend was designed to give Yahoo an injection of talent to help reinvent its mobile offerings at a time when its major revenue streams still depended on homepage and mail products. Cahan was in charge of Flickr and mail for a time (to no real effect) but transitioned to mobile when Jeff Bonforte took that steampunk legacy on.
While at Yahoo, Cahan launched several mobile products, including Yahoo Finance, Weather, a gif-heavy redesign of Yahoo Sports and the News Digest app — the last of which included tech from very young Sumly founder Nick D’Alosio, whose company was acquired by Mayer to a chorus of raised eyebrows.
Cahan was also embroiled in some politicking and abortive launches as the structures at Yahoo became more malleable, at one point overseeing the development of a doomed relaunch of Yahoo Instant Messenger. That app was actually very cool and something I should probably tell you about some time but, alas, it was never to be. Under pressure to ship something safe, Bonforte began developing a much more run-of-the-mill group messenger based on acquisition MessageMe, which launched as Yahoo Messenger. Cahan’s star waned a bit, but he still retained some power as the conduit for mobile, the only real chance Yahoo had for reinvention.
Though he had a reputation as a confrontational and demanding manager, I always found him to be engaging and intelligent in our few interactions. Like Mayer, Cahan will likely be receiving a nice payout from the acquisition and was recently engaged, so it seems likely he’ll land on his feet.
TBD? Who will now be leading mobile for the new combined Verizahooath: entity.
OwnLocal has acquired Wanderful Media, bringing together two companies focused on local advertising and deals.
OwnLocal works with local newspapers to turn traditional print ads into digital campaigns. Wanderful, meanwhile, operates Find&Save, a website and app that brings the newspaper deals and coupons online. So there are some obvious similarities.
The big reason for the acquisition, OwnLocal CEO Lloyd Armbrust told me via email, is that he wanted to get access to Wanderful’s data.
 “Wanderful and Travidia (its previous name) [have] been around for almost 20 years and they’ve collected millions of records of how local businesses advertise online, specifically in print,” Armbrust said. “This meta data is being used to enhance our machine learning/computer vision capabilities for automatically building local ad campaigns.”
Wanderful was formed in 2011 and funded by a consortium of newspaper companies (including Cox Media Group, The E.W. Scripps Company, Gannett Co., Hearst Corporation, MediaNews Group, The McClatchy Company and The Washington Post Co.), ultimately raising a total of $50.5 million. The financial terms of its acquisition were not disclosed.
Ten Wanderful employees, including Vice President of Technology Bob Clark, are joining OwnLocal “immediately.” And while some of them will be relocating to OwnLocal’s headquarters in Austin, the company says Wanderful will continue to operate as an independent business with an operations center in Chico, California.
In what turned out to be a surprising SFW podcast Future of Sex podcast creator Bryony Cole joined us to talk about the future of sex, teledilonics and sex robots. Not content to let the media and the world stay squeamish about the topic of sex robots Cole expects many of us to have had sex with a robot by 2047 and believes many of our children will first experience sex with a robot before they attempt it with a human.
Cole is also running New York’s first Sextech Hackathon on June 10, 2017, From 9:30am to 8pm, at the ThoughtWorks office, 99 Madison Ave, 15th floor. You can RSVP here.
Talking candidly about sex and tech is hard and Bryony made it all kinds of fun. Please do listen in.
Technotopia is a podcast about a better future by John Biggs. You can subscribe in Stitcher or iTunes and download the MP3 here.



Target’s mobile app strategy will undergo a significant change, starting this summer. The retailer announced this week it will soon combine the functionality of its Cartwheel savings app with its main shopping app, in preparation for an eventual Cartwheel shutdown. The Target app will also receive a notable upgrade this year, adding support for an indoor map that shows your location in the store, along with the nearby Cartwheel deals, in addition to support for mobile payments.
According to Target, the decision to merge its apps into one is a result of customer feedback. Shoppers wanted an easier way to access all of what Target has to offer from one destination, not two.
Target isn’t the only retailer to streamline its mobile app strategy. A couple of years ago, Ebay shut down its wider suite of apps (Fashion, Motors, and Valet), to return their functionality to Ebay’s main app, for example. Meanwhile, other retailers like Walmart, Kohl’s, and CVS – all of which have their own mobile payments service – offer their payments and savings features within their main shopping app, not in a separate one.
The retailer had announced its plans to launch a mobile payments service earlier this year, but had not revealed when that would be beyond sometime “this year.” That’s still the ETA for the mobile payments portion of this transition – and, in fact, it could be pushed back to January, if the team needs the time.
We also already knew that Target’s initial entry into this space would be focused on supporting its Target REDcard holders, rather than a broader strategy that would allow for other forms of payment.
The REDcard is Target’s own credit card, offering shoppers 5 percent off of all their purchases. The company declined to say how many cardholders it has, but noted they accounted for 24 percent of last year’s sales.
With Cartwheel, consumers today add deals to an in-app shopping list, then show their barcode at checkout to save on the items they’ve purchased that match the available discounts. Following Cartwheel’s integration with the main Target app, this process will continue – except that, with support for mobile payments, shoppers will be able to both save and pay by having that barcode scanned just once.

The transition to the main Target app has already begun.
Customers can now access their Cartwheel deals in the main app, even though the standalone version of Cartwheel has not been shut down. We understand that Target has no immediate plans to close Cartwheel, instead favoring a slower transition for this app, which is the more popular of the two.
Cartwheel has been downloaded around 40 million times, and its users have saved around a billion dollars via its deals. That’s up from the $600 million reported last year.
However, Target says it will soon begin alerting Cartwheel users to make the switch to the Target app through notifications.
Following the transition of Cartwheel to Target, the main app will be updated with other features, including mobile payments and the in-app map.
Beacons in Target’s new LED Lights 
This map will now show a user’s location in the store as a blue dot, and it will display which Cartwheel deals are nearby.
This addresses one of the disconnects between using the Cartwheel app today, and actually shopping the store shelves. You can only see that you’ve added deals to your list, but it doesn’t show their exact location. The deals aren’t even organized in your list by type or aisle number, meaning you have to have a pretty good memory of what you wanted while actually placing items in your cart at the store.

Though Target’s main app has offered a store map and aisle finder functionality for years, the ability for it to track your location and show you deals – which will begin rolling out this summer – are new. We understand that location-tracking will be enabled through the use bluetooth beacons.
Beacons, which use bluetooth for positioning, are how the Target app will be able to provide a GPS-like experience for its app’s indoor map. That’s something Target began testing a couple of years ago, in partnership with beacon provider Estimote.
That test wrapped up some time ago, we understand. Instead, Target is updating all stores with new, energy-efficient LED lighting, and will be installing fixtures that have beacons built in. The company isn’t disclosing the name of its vendor partners, but may be working with more than one on this effort. The plan is to have several hundred stores updated with the beacon-enabled LED lights this summer, and the full chain by the holidays.
Presumably, once Target’s main app becomes the de facto location for shopping in-store, online, finding deals, and making payments, it could then be updated to include other newer features, if Target chose. One of those potentially could be support for its next-day home delivery service, Target Restock, which will also launch a pilot test this summer.
According to our sources, Yahoo’s chief information security officer, Bob Lord, is losing out to AOL’s Chris Nims for the security chief’s chair of new umbrella entity, Oath.
This is as a result of the AOL-Yahoo merger, with Verizon’s acquisition of Yahoo expected to close next week.
The jockeying for SVP positions within the combined entity has seen several Yahoo senior managers taking the leadership reins at Oath at the expense of their AOL counterparts.
But when it comes to security, the optics were always going to look unkind for Lord — given Yahoo’s still recent reveal that it suffered the worst (known) data breaches in history.
We’ve reached out to Lord and Nims for comment but at the time of writing neither had responded. Yahoo also declined to comment. AOL, which is the parent company of TechCrunch, did not respond to our requests for comment.
But multiple sources have told us that Lord will not be Oath’s CISO.
Lord only took up the CISO post at Yahoo in November 2015, taking over after Yahoo’s systems had already been compromised — though as yet unbeknownst to its security staff.
The two massive hacks, with at least 500 million Yahoo accounts compromised at least as early as 2014 in one breach, and a further one billion accounts hacked in August 2013, were not discovered and disclosed by Yahoo until last year. Earlier this year the DoJ accused Russian spies — working alongside Russian criminals — of perpetrating one of the hacks.
Speaking about the moment he realized the scale of the hacks, at TC Disrupt New York last month, Lord described the feeling of dawning horror as akin to vertigo.
The reputational damage to Yahoo from the revelations of the data breaches ended up knocking $350 million off its sale price to Verizon.
As we reported earlier this week, around 15 percent of global headcount across AOL and Yahoo is being culled as a result of the integration by parent company Verizon.
NB: AOL is also TechCrunch’s parent company.

 TechCrunch
TechCrunch Sessions: Robotics will feature the industry’s best roboticists, technologists and investors. But what about the next generation? Everyone knows that there are not enough robotics engineers to go around, and the demand will only increase. We’ve enlisted the help of three amazing educators at the forefront of STEM and engineering education who will discuss their views on the best way to train the next generation of roboticists.
We’re excited to have David Barrett, a professor of mechanical engineering at Olin College, Ryan Keenan, curriculum lead for Udacity, and Dr. Robert McMahan, President of Kettering University, join us at TC Sessions: Robotics at MIT on July 17.
Each of these educators leads vastly different programs, but the aim is universal: to train the next generation of globally competitive engineers. It’s important that these students learn through hands-on experience how to not only write code, but deploy code in a viable manner that results in a sustainable product. And since the global robotics industry is set to expand from $34.1B to $226.2B by 2021, the need for such graduates will follow suit.
This workshop joins the packed agenda of TC Sessions: Robotics. More workshops will be announced in the coming days. General admission tickets are currently available, but seating in MIT’s Kresge Auditorium is limited. We hope to see you there.

David Barrett is a professor of mechanical engineering at Olin College where he helps train engineers for a future in the robotics world. Olin’s robotics program emphasizes building robots from day one of freshman year alongside the core engineering disciplines important to robotics. Prof. Barrett has more than 25 years experience in robotics, including VP of engineering at iRobot, director of the Walt Disney Imagineering Corporation, research engineer at MIT’s Artificial Intelligence Laboratory, and technical director at Draper Laboratory. He has a PhD in Ocean Engineering from MIT.
Ryan Keenan is the curriculum lead for Udacity’s Nanodegree program in Robotics. He joined Udacity in 2016 to help build Udacity’s Self-Driving Car Engineer Nanodegree program. As a curriculum lead, Keenan works with engineers around the world to develop curricula and projects that provide students with hands-on experience in areas like computer vision and machine learning. Prior to joining Udacity, Keenan was a data analyst, postdoctoral fellow and Fulbright fellow. He holds a PhD in Astrophysics from the University of Wisconsin – Madison.
Dr. Robert McMahan is the President of Kettering University in Flint, Mich. where he also serves as a professor of physics. Dr. McMahan came to this historical engineering, science, mathematics, and business school, named after inventor and industrialist Charles Kettering, after a stint in the public sector as a Senior Advisor to the Governor of North Carolina. Before that he was a strategist and venture capitalist for In-Q-Tel, a VC firm funded by the CIA. Dr. McMahan received undergraduate degrees in Physics and History of Art from Duke, a Ph.D in Physics from Dartmouth and served a postdoctoral appointment at Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics. Later he founded and sold an applied physics systems research and development firm. While at Kettering University, Dr. McMahan has overseen the school’s rapid physical expansion in Flint, and recently led the school to turn the land housing an abandoned General Motors factory into an automobile test track designed in part to test autonomous vehicles.

 
Agenda
TC Sessions: Robotics
July 17, 2017 @ MIT’s Kresge Auditorium
9:00 AM – 9:05 AMOpening Remarks from Matthew Panzarino
9:05 AM – 9:25 AMWhat’s Next at MIT’s Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence Laboratory with Daniela Rus (MIT CSAIL)
9:25 AM – 9:50 AM Is Venture Ready for Robotics? with Manish Kothari (SRI), Josh Wolfe (Lux Capital) and Helen Zelman (Lemnos)
10:10 AM – 10:35 AMCollaborative Robots At Work with Clara Vu (VEO),  Jerome Dubois (6 River Systems) and Holly Yanco (UMass Lowell)
10:35 AM – 10:55 AMCoffee Break
10:55 AM – 11:20 AMBuilding A Robotics Startup from Angel to Exit with Helen Greiner (CyPhy Works), Andy Wheeler (GV) and Elaine Chen (Martin Trust Center for MIT Entrepreneurship)
11:20 AM – 11:30 AM Soft Robotics (Carl Vause) Demo
11:30 AM – 11:55 AMRe-imagineering Disney Robotics with Martin Buehler (Disney Imagineering)
12:00 PM – 1:00 PMLunch and Workshops TBA
1:00 PM – 1:20 PMRobots at Amazon with Tye Brady (Amazon Robotics)
1:20 PM – 1:55 PMWhen Robots Fly with Buddy Michini (Airware), Andreas Raptopoulos (Matternet) and Anil Nanduri (Intel)
1:55 PM – 2:15 PMPackbot, Roomba and Beyond with Colin Angle (iRobot)
2:15 PM – 2:35 PMBuilding Better Bionics Samantha Payne (Open Bionics) and TBA
2:35 PM – 2:45 PMDemo TBA
2:45 PM – 3:05 PMThe Future of Industrial Robotics with Sami Atiya (ABB)
3:05 PM – 3:25 PMCoffee Break
3:25 – 3:35 PMDemo TBA
3:35 PM – 4:15 PMRobotics Startup Pitch-off (Judges and contestants TBA)
4:15 PM – 4:35 PMThe Age Of The Household Robot with Gill Pratt (Toyota Research Institute)
4:35 PM – 4:55 PMBuilding The Robot Brain with Heather Ames (Neurala) and Brian Gerky (OSRF) and TBA
4:55 PM – 5:20 PMRobots, AI and Humanity with David Barrett (Olin), David Edelman (MIT) and Dr. Brian Pierce (DARPA) and TBA
5:20 PM – 5:25 PMWrap Up 
5:25 PM -7:00 PMReception  
Alex Wilhelm
Contributor



Alex Wilhelm is the editor-in-chief of Crunchbase News and co-host of Equity, TechCrunch's venture capital-focused podcast.

			More posts by this contributor:			
Salesforce marches steadily toward $10B run rate goal
Equity podcast: Uber’s losses, Cloudera’s IPO and the biggest e-commerce acquisition ever



In a slightly surprising move, Pinterest raised $150 million from private investors this week.
The round is notable for a few reasons:

The company is widely tipped to be heading for an early 2018 IPO.
It has rapidly expanding nine-figure revenues.
It has raised far more in its preceding capital tranche.

Why the firm may have wanted the cash isn’t too hard to understand. When the markets offer you lots of cash on good terms, you tend to say yes. But let’s explore the round for a minute so that when this particular decacorn does finally file, we’ll be on solid footing.
The round
Reports indicate that Pinterest’s $150 million was raised at its preceding per-share price. However, the company’s valuation rose more than you might expect. Pinterest had disbursed more equity during the intervening time, to quote Bloomberg:
The last fundraising round was in April 2015, valuing the business at about $11 billion. Because the number of shares in the company has grown over time, its new valuation is $12.3 billion, Pinterest said.
$150 million is a small portion of $12.3 billion. In fact, it’s just over 1.2 percent. Therefore, the amount of equity that Pinterest sold in its post-Series G round was incredibly modest.
The capital injection is also modest when compared to how much money the firm had raised previously. That sum, $1.32 billion or so, comes to $1.47 billion when you include the company’s newest round.
Further putting the $150 million in context, Pinterest’s last round was tectonic. As TechCrunch wrote at the time:

Pinterest confirmed that it has padded its Series G funding a bit and is carrying out a new secondary sale that will allow employees to cash in some of their shares.
As first reported by Re/code, the social sharing startup raised an additional $186 million in funding as part of its Series G round, bringing the total amount raised in that financing to $553 million.

In short: Pinterest’s most recent round is small compared to its valuation, total capital raised to date and its most recent round. But there is one other comparative stick.
Revenue
We were a bit quick to summarize a moment ago, as the new round is also small compared to Pinterest’s revenue. It’s a growing sum, which it likely needs to go public in order to provide liquidity to its backers.
There are a few numbers to digest. We’ll start with TechCrunch, which wrote the following in 2015 after the firm’s Series G:
TechCrunch has obtained documents that show Pinterest has been forecasting $169 million in revenue [in 2015] and $2.8 billion in annual revenue by 2018. Pinterest was also expecting to grow its monthly active users to 151 million by the end of 2015 and 329 million by 2018.
The same TechCrunch article notes that Pinterest was on a $90 million top line “run rate” in the fourth quarter of 2014, and its revenue was less than $25 million.
Moving on, it appears Recode has the most recent disbursements of private information. (Pinterest declined to comment on its revenue history. The firm reiterated to Crunchbase News that it has seen its per-search revenue double this year.) Here’s the publication in March of this year:

Pinterest […] is targeting more than $500 million in revenue in 2017, according to multiple sources familiar with the company’s plans. Some believe the company could generate as much as $600 million this year.

The Recode article goes on to state that the company brought in $100 million of revenue in 2015, and that the company trebled that result in 2016.
So the company moved from less than $25 million in 2014 to around $100 million in 2015. In 2016, it was in the ballpark of $300 million. Now, it’s expected to reach $500 to $600 million this year. (The $100 million 2015 result is far less than the prior $169 million forecast that TechCrunch reported and we quoted above.)
Bringing all that back to where we were, here again, we find numbers that dwarf the company’s most recent funding round.
And that leads us to a few new questions. If you brought in more than $500 million in investment in 2015, along with $100 million in revenue, and then rocked north to $300 million in the next year, why do you raise $150 million a year after?
Bloomberg posits that “[b]y raising money, Pinterest is choosing to delay a potential initial public offering as its business model matures.”
This is possible. Or it simply could take on the money as its “existing investors” were more than willing to pick up parcels of new shares. The latter argument is predicated on Pinterest not needing the money. Given its past raises and revenue growth, as discussed, that doesn’t seem out of the realm of possibility.
Still, the expanded valuation gives us a new toy to play with, and we would be nothing more than derelict if we didn’t put it to use.
Revenue multiples
Pinterest grew even as its valuation paused, later ticking slightly higher after its most recent round. So, as you can infer, the company’s revenue multiple is rapidly declining.
(Revenue multiples help us understand how much investors are willing to spend on a company’s revenue. Normally, the faster a company is growing at the moment, the more investors are willing to pay for its current revenue in expectation of larger future incomes.)
Don’t presume that a falling revenue multiple is a bad thing. If Pinterest wants to go public, it will need to rapidly shrink the price it charges for revenue. We can see that in the following:

The company was worth $11 billion in 2015 when it recorded around $100 million in revenue. That puts its revenue multiple somewhere over 100. That’s incredibly high.

The trend continues, as time passes:

Keeping the $11 billion figure flat, Pinterest’s $300 million revenue result in 2016 gave it a multiple of around 37. That’s still incredibly high. Too high, at least, for public markets.

In 2017, with its new valuation and two possible revenue tallies for the full year, Pinterest manages further reductions of its top line multiple:

Worth $12.3 billion, presuming a $500 million revenue year, Pinterest’s revenue multiple falls to 24.6.
If we push that number up to the possible $600 million figure, the multiple declines to 20.5.

That is still high, but it is getting back to Earth.
However, we cannot just flag a revenue multiple, point to its direction and then declare our work done. We need to put it in context. There is not a super-great public comp for Pinterest, but we can grab some firms that share something in common with our newly capitalized unicorn.
In descending order, here are some public market revenue multiples to bear in mind:

Snap: 43.1 [Yahoo Finance, trailing]
Facebook: 14.7 [Yahoo Finance, trailing]
Twitter: 5.1 [Yahoo Finance, trailing]
Etsy: 4.2 [Yahoo Finance, trailing]

You can see how Pinterest could be called overvalued at its current price. But if the firm can grow like hell all year, and put up, say, a strong Q1 2018, it may have the story it needs for a flat-ish IPO.
So with a slightly odd $150 million in new cash, Pinterest is rapidly maturing its ratios as it heads for a liquidity event.
Homework: If Snap’s declines continue, at what point does its weakness harm Pinterest’s own path to the public markets?

 Li-Anne Dias
Microsoft announced today it will retire its older file-sharing site Docs.com on December 15, 2017, as a result of its LinkedIn acquisition. With LinkedIn, Microsoft also gained access to SlideShare, a top file-sharing network on the web – and one’s that’s now far more heavily used than Microsoft’s own Docs.com.
SlideShare “represents the ideal platform for publishing your Word, PowerPoint, and PDF content with its audience of 70 million professionals, and vast content library,” wrote Microsoft, in a message posted to users on the Microsoft Office website.
The shutdown was first spotted by ZDNet.

Above: Docs.com’s flatline compared with SlideShare; source: SimilarWeb
Docs.com was launched in 2010 in collaboration with Facebook, at a time when Microsoft was hoping to leverage the social network’s wide reach to grow its Microsoft Office Web Apps service. It was effectively an effort to get ahead of the then rapidly growing threat of Google Docs by jumping on the back of a more popular social network to give it a jump start.
The service itself was created by Microsoft Research’s FUSE Labs, with the hopes that Facebook users would add documents to their Facebook profile or share posts containing files, as easily as they would post photos or video.
The Docs.com Facebook site is no longer available.

Above: a younger Mark Zuckerberg introducing Docs.com at Facebook’s F8 conference in 2010
In 2015, the site was redesigned to be a place where users could post their Word, Excel, PowerPoint, and PDF files in addition to Microsoft’s newer file format, Sway, and make those discoverable to search engines.
Docs.com supported both public and private sharing of the files, and you could invite others to help you edit your files before making the available to the wider web.
However, Microsoft now has other services that can take the place of Docs.com following its closure, including OneDrive and SlideShare.
The process of closing the site entirely will take several months, allowing users plenty of time to make the transition.
Starting today, you’ll no longer be able to create new Docs.com accounts, but you’ll still be able to view, edit, publish, download, and delete your existing content. On August 1st, 2017, publishing and editing will stop being supported, but you’ll be able to view and download files.
The company also advises users to back up their files to OneDrive by signing in to Docs.com with your existing account, then making the transfer anytime between now and December 14, 2017. (Microsoft will automate the transfer on your behalf). This will render your Docs.com account read-only after the process completes.
Office 365 Administrators can migrate your files for you if you’re using Docs.com with a Work or School account, as of June 19th.
Microsoft will also allow Docs.com share links to work for some time after the service’s closure. Until May 18, 2018, any links to Docs.com content you’ve previously shared with others that have been automatically redirected to your OneDrive or OneDrive for Business account will stop working.
In addition, Microsoft explains why it’s automating the transition of files from Docs.com to OneDrive, instead of to SlideShare – even though SlideShare is the reason it cited for the service’s closure. The company says that SlideShare is for public posting, and users should be able to “purposefully manage” which files they want to publish there, “while also adding their own structure, titles, and descriptions to their content.”
A more detailed FAQ on how the transition may affect you is available here.
Seed investment firm Lerer Hippeau Ventures is planning to write more later-stage checks, thanks to a new $28 million fund that it’s calling LHV Select.
“Since the very beginning, going back to 2010, we’ve always had the same strategy,” said Managing Partner Eric Hippeau — a strategy that’s focused on making seed investments in New York startups. (The firm has invested in more than 300 companies, including BuzzFeed, Casper and Warby Parker, with the majority of them based in New York City.)
The firm sets part of each fund aside so that it can participate as those startups raise additional funding, but Hippeau said that after the Series A, “We kind of run out of money to support the companies.”
LHV Select is supposed to address that, allowing the firm to remain involved in those later stage deals. Hippeau said the “sweet spot” for the fund will be checks of $2 million or $3 million (though some of them may be a little larger or smaller).
The fact that Lerer Hippeau was raising the follow-on fund was first revealed earlier this year through a regulatory filing. The firm raised its most recent seed fund back in 2015 — in fact, that $113 million fund is much larger than LHV Select.
Hippeau explained that this LHV Select was kept “relatively small” so that the two funds could eventually be “synced up”: “We haven’t decided when we’ll raise the next [follow-on] fund, but it will coincide with the next Lerer Hippeau Ventures regular fund.”
 Principal Graham Brown will take charge of diligence and analysis for LHV Select, but Hippeau said the decisions will ultimately be made by the same investment team as the firm’s seed deals.
“Everybody participates,” he said. “We really want there to be continuity.”
He added that Lerer Hippeau has already made four investments from the new fund — but the rounds haven’t been announced publicly yet.
Just in time for Disrupt SF I’d like to invite you all to a micro meet-up in Warsaw on July 4. We’ll be holding it at Campus Warsaw, 33C Ząbkowska, 03-736 Warszawa, Poland. The fun starts at 6pm and ends at 8pm with some after-event drinks nearby.
The winner of the pitch-off will get a table at Disrupt SF and the second-place winner will get two tickets to Disrupt SF. There are no slides, but you can demo hardware if you have it. Each company will have two minutes to pitch and two minutes of questions from our expert judges.
Please RSVP here. Space is limited, so make sure to join us early.
If you’d like to pitch you can submit your startup here and I’ll pick 10 companies to pitch. If you don’t hear from us a week before the event you weren’t chosen.
Thanks to Ahmad Piraiee for help planning the event.

		
Hello and welcome back to Equity, TechCrunch’s weekly podcast focused on the world of venture capital.
The crew, Katie Roof, Matthew Lynley and I — Alex Wilhelm — were joined by none other than Indy Guha from Bain Capital Ventures. Indy has worked in the venture world for some time, but has taken time off from investing to work at growing companies. He has experience on both sides of the table, as the saying goes.
Our little quorum dove into the critical stories of the week, including Pinterest’s new capital event, which saw the firm bring in a comparatively modest sum for a comparatively modest valuation bump; Snap’s purchase of Placed to, in the words of TechCrunch’s Josh Constine “prove geofilters drive store visits”; ShotSpotter’s debut, and, as you must have guessed, the Tintri IPO filing, which left us with a few questions.
Oh, and on the show this week I believe there is a complete absence of politics. You are welcome.
Equity drops every Friday at 6:00 am PT, so subscribe to us on iTunes, Overcast, Pocketcast, Downcast and all the casts.
Troubled streaming music service Pandora has finally found a white knight of sorts to boost it with a cash injection as it looks to improve its business: SiriusXM has just announced it will be investing $480 million in cash into publicly traded Pandora, which will give the satellite radio company around 16 percent ownership of Pandora on an as-converted basis. Along with this, Pandora has offloaded a large asset: it’s selling Ticketfly, the ticketing service that it acquired in October 2015 for $450 million, to Eventbrite for $200 million.
It also will enter into a distribution partnership with Eventbrite as part of that deal.
The two moves bring Pandora into a new chapter in how it will develop its business: the company today still makes most of its money from advertising around free listeners, although it has been working on building paid tiers to supplement that for some time now. In the meantime, the stock’s main boost since last year has been the fact that it’s been the subject of takeover speculation.
SiriusXM was once rumored to be interested in buying Pandora outright, one of a number of potential suitors. (One of those outliers? Spotify, of all companies.)
While an outright sale of Pandora appears to have been taken off the table for now, this will give it a much-needed cash injection, as well as a strategic partner experienced in the radio business that might help steer it to more growth in a very competitive market.
Pandora faces a couple of issues in its business. For one, digital music streaming companies are still coming under a lot of margin pressure because of the costs for licensing music. Another issue for Pandora is that it has never managed to expand significantly outside of its home market of the U.S. The Sirius investment could give it a cash boost and also some economies of scale in negotiating those deals. And, on SiriusXM’s side, it gives the company some differentiation in its business.
“This strategic investment in Pandora represents a unique opportunity for SiriusXM to create value for its stockholders by investing in the leader in the ad-supported digital radio business, a space where SiriusXM does not play today,” Jim Meyer, chief executive officer of SiriusXM, said in a statement.
“Pandora’s large user base and its ability to provide listeners with a personalized music experience are tremendous assets. With its strong technology and new product offerings, we believe there are exciting opportunities for Pandora to accelerate its growth and increase value for Pandora and SiriusXM stockholders.”
The investment will come in the form of newly issued Series A convertible preferred Pandora stock; $172.5 million of the preferred stock was purchased upon execution of the deal, and the balance will be bought at a second closing.
Eventbrite’s acquisition of Ticketfly, meanwhile, brings to an end one of the many bets that Pandora had made over the years to try to diversify its business.
The Ticketfly acquisition was meant to help Pandora develop alternative revenue streams — specifically around events and, obviously, ticket sales — but anecdotally we’ve heard one former employee at Ticketfly describe it as a “technical shitshow.” The significant drop in enterprise value between the $450 million that Pandora paid for it, and the $200 million that Eventbrite is paying to pick it up, could also point to that.
For its part, Eventbrite sees the acquisition as part of its own interest in expanding into more events around music.
“The whole is greater than the sum of its parts, and we see immense alignment and opportunity with this union, especially as we continue to expand Eventbrite’s global footprint in music,” Julia Hartz, CEO and co-founder of Eventbrite, said in a statement. “Together with Ticketfly, we will focus our collective energy on further developing our unparalleled solution and superior services for indie music venues and promoters around the world.”
This is not the first acquisition from Eventbrite to focus on music events: The company earlier this year acquired Ticketscript in Europe to build out that part of its business.
This deal, in any case, will come at a cost for Pandora. Just yesterday, we reported that Pandora and KKR, a private equity firm that had previously agreed to buy $150 million in Pandora Series A preferred shares had extended that agreement to allow it more time to close. However, there also were rumors that SiriusXM would step in as a strategic investor to acquire a “substantial minority investment in the company.” Today’s deal means that KKR will no longer be taking a stake in Pandora, and Pandora will subsequently pay KKR a $22.5 million termination fee.
This preferred stock will bear a 6 percent cumulative cash dividend for SiriusXM — which makes the deal particularly sweet. The preferred stock also can be converted into common stock at a price of $10.50 per share, which is a 14.2 percent premium to Pandora’s average stock price over the past 20 days.
As part of the deal, SiriusXM will get three seats on Pandora’s (now nine-person) board of directors, with one of those acting as chairman. And, the financial stake for SiriusXM is large enough that they have an incentive to make sure Pandora rights the ship and figures out how to fight back against Spotify and Apple Music.
“With this investment, we have the backing of one of the media industry’s most successful investors and significant capital to accelerate growth. Pandora is now poised to advance to the next stage of the company’s lifecycle,” Tim Leiweke, a member of Pandora’s board of directors, explained in a statement.
And, of course, if SiriusXM ever decides to revisit acquiring Pandora in the future, they will already own a sizeable chunk of the company.
For now, the market appears to be happy with the investment and asset sale to Eventbrite: Pandora’s stock is currently up by more than five percent in early trading.
Samsung is updating its curved gaming monitor lineup with a slew of new technologies. Coming in 27, 31.5 and 49-inch versions, they’re called the C27HG70, C32HG70 and C49HG90, respectively. They blend the best current monitor technologies, into a package that at first glance seems pretty ideal.
All three monitors come equipped with HDR (high dynamic range) for increased light range, quantum dot LEDs that cover 125% of the sRGB color space and 95 percent of the DCI-P3 color space and AMD FreeSync 2 technology to avoid screen tearing.
Despite all this going on, this tech cocktail keeps moving images on the display at a steady 144Hz, with a 178 degree viewing angle.
The only spec that Samsung’s three monitors don’t share are screen resolution: the 49-inch has a 3840×1080 panel, while its smaller 31.5 and 27-inch brethren have 2560×1440 panels.
Personally, I have no need of a 49-inch curved display, much less the space to put it, but Samsung is convinced that the user who needs that ultrawide screen real estate, definitely exists.



Of course, using AMD technology to avoid screen tearing has both its advantages and disadvantages. Anyone with an AMD card that supports FreeSync2 will benefit, but anyone without (namely NVIDIA cards) won’t get to make any use of this anti-screen tearing spec.
Regardless, if you’re in the AMD of NVIDA camp, everyone from enthusiast PC gamers, eSports professionals, to editors and video professionals could have a field day with this gear. All the monitors have stands with adjustable height, pivot and angle, along with audio/microphone, HDMI, DisplayPort and USB 3.0 ports.
Regarding availability, Samsung’s new monitors will be available from a few retailers including Amazon, Newegg and Samsung directly. The 49-inch will go for $1499, the 32-inch CHG70 for $699, and the 27-inch display for $599. Shipping is expected in late June, to early July.
The next version of the Apple TV automatically adds AirPods to the available speakers. According to reports, Apple is making the process as easy as possible. Clearly someone on the Apple TV team shares Doug’s late night Wheel of Fortune viewing habit.
This function makes sense. Sometimes you want to watch Veep but your partner cannot stand Jonah. Pop on the show, select your AirPods and privately enjoy the show on the biggest screen in the house. Roku devices have long supported a similar feature: Most Roku remotes have a 3.5mm headphone jack, but remember, Apple is living in the post-3.5mm era.
During the setup of tvOS 11 developer beta, AirPods connected to the user’s iCloud account are automatically added as speakers for the AppleTV. This is the same process Apple employs to distribute the AirPods among a user’s devices.
Previously users could connect AirPods to Apple TVs through the same manual process required to connect AirPods to non-Apple products.
Right now this process is limited to the latest developer beta of the Apple tvOS 11 operating system but expect it to eventually roll out to everyone in a general upgrade.
A man in Thailand has been sentenced to 35 years in prison after he was found guilty of insulting the country’s royal family on Facebook.
Identified only as Wichai, he is alleged to have published 10 photos, videos and comments on the social network that violate Thailand’s strict lèse majesté regulations that outlaw criticism of the royal family, according to free speech group iLaw.
The 33-year-old is accused of creating the posts using a “fraudulent” account that purportedly impersonated a former friend with whom he had quarreled. Wichai initially denied the charges but, after spending more than a year in jail while the case was processed, he changed his response and confessed, iLaw said.
Journalists were banned from attending the hearing today, which took place in a military court. Initially, the court prescribed seven years per offense, but it subsequently reduced the overall sentence from 70 years to 35 years. Nonetheless, this is a record sentence for the Thai law, which the UN has called “incompatible with international human rights law.”
In a separate case, iLaw added that another man — “Chaliew” — was given 2.5 years in jail for posting a clip from a radio program to a file-sharing site in 2014. The clip was judged to have defamed the monarchy.
Thailand has been criticized for its use of lèse majesté and other censorship strategies since the military seized control of the government via a coup three years ago. Human rights group FIDH reported that the total number of people arrested under lèse majesté following the coup passed 100 last month.
Today’s ruling is not the first instance of jail time given to a person for Facebook comments, likes or even just receiving a message. It even outlawed online interaction with three overseas-based critics of the current regime. More broadly, the government has pressed ahead with controversial plans to implement a single internet gateway that would simplify online censorship.
That’s because the current system requires participation from overseas content platforms, which are reluctant to censor their users. Recently, the Thai government has put pressure on social networks themselves to clean up illegal content. Facebook has begun to block posts directly when a court orders it to, and, this year, it and YouTube both deleted hundreds of URLs that were deemed to be illegal in the country.
However, officials were not satisfied that many links remained, and the ruling junta issued a threat to ban access to Facebook over the issue. However, it backed down on that and Facebook remains accessible in the country.
All of this, and more, explains why online freedom groups are increasingly concerned about Thailand. In its 2016 report, U.S.-based Freedom House concluded that Thailand’s internet and media are “not free.”
“Internet freedom declined in 2016 as the military leadership continued its efforts to codify censorship and surveillance powers through legislation,” the group wrote.

 TechCrunch
There’s good news for Airbnb in Japan where the government has approved legislation that legalizes its service, and others like it, in the country.
The law, which was passed by Japan’s upper house on Friday, will allow home-owners to let out their property to paying guests for up to 180 days per year. They are subject to registering with local authorities who, in turn, have license to implement their own restrictions, Bloomberg reported.
Airbnb said Japan is one of its top ten markets worldwide with five million people using its service in the country over the past 12 months. The company claims its community “generated $8.3 billion of economic impact” during 2016. That figure is only likely to raise as the country’s tourism industry gears up for a boom around the 2020 Olympic games and, before then, Rugby World Cup in 2019.
“This is great news for the thousands of Japanese residents already hosting on Airbnb and provides much-needed clarity and certainty for locals who want to earn additional income by sharing their extra space with travellers from around the world,” Airbnb said in a blog post.
The so-called ‘Airbnb Law’ has been in progress for more than a year, and it gives the U.S. company — which was valued at $31 billion as recently as March — a much-coveted legal footing in Japan. There are still issues, however, and some Airbnb hosts may see 180 days as a limitation on their potential income.
Despite that, today’s news presents a welcome respite from challenges that Airbnb has faced with its operations in other major countries, including the U.S., where it often sits in a grey area. In New York, for example, it is banned from offering short-term lettings, while it has battled local government in cities like San Francisco, Seattle and overseas destinations such as Barcelona in Spain.

 Thomas Trutschel/Getty Images
Milk deliveries may not sound like an industry in need of disruption, but that’s exactly what one startup in India is working to do. Supr Daily — the company in question — graduated the Y Combinator accelerator program this year and now it has raised $1.5 million from a range of investors to expand its service.
The Supr Daily service is designed to bring formality and order to India’s chaotic system of morning milk deliveries, while it also combats quality issues around milk, as we wrote when we covered the company in February.
Government reports suggest that as much as 68 percent of milk is ‘tainted’ as delivery people will water their milk down in order to get more bags and income for their lot. The milk can include additives like detergent, caustic soda, glucose, white paint and refined oil to mask coloration, according to Times Internet. Supr Daily sources fresh milk directly and pays delivery staff higher wages to provide genuine milk, while it also includes tester kits for customers.
Milk is the main hook for Supr Daily service but customers can also buy every day essentials like bread, eggs, butter and coconut milk to save regular trips to the shops.
The service launched in 2015 and it is currently active in 15 neighborhoods in Mumbai. Company co-founder Puneet Kumar told TechCrunch that it is close to making its one millionth delivery. Supr Daily started out with limited reach very deliberately to test the viability of its service, and now Kumar and fellow co-founder Shreyas Nagdawane are eying expansions. Initially that will be to cover all of Mumbai, and then later into one of India’s other tier-one cities.
“We’re using [this new] capital to scale and build a city playbook to take this business to multiple cities in India,” Kumar said in an interview.
The investment comes from a range of backers including Soma Capital, Great Oaks Ventures and 122 West Ventures. Angel investors who participated include Y Combinator Partners Paul Buchheit and Jared Friedman, and Roger Egan, who sold his Singapore-based e-grocery firm Redmart to Alibaba-owned Lazada last year.
“We’ve chosen people with a lot of knowledge of the grocery market to help us navigate the space,” Kumar said.
Supr Daily isn’t lifting the lid on its financials yet, other than to say that the business grew four-fold in the first quarter of this year while it was at YC. But Kumar said its model is not a loss-making as is commonly the case for on-demand and delivery-based business.
“Each delivery is making money, the unit economics are healthy,” he explained. “Our burn rate is really low so this money gives us a lot of runway to scale.”
“Our last mile delivery cost is sub $0.05, that’s a 20/30x cost advantage [on other delivery services] that really puts us in a formidable position,” Kumar added.